VOL. 8.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1880.		No. 17.


SIMPLE JUSTICE—WOMAN'S RIGHT.

Is it not truly a wondrous stride,
That man has stepped down from his stately pride,
To discuss for woman the right and wrong,
When woman has suffer'd the last so long?
Were her aims more selfish, less kind her soul,
There would be some limit to man's control;
But busied with labor that love doth bring,
She [-]ath yielded her rights to [-]reation's king
Forgetful of self, amid affection's cares,
She has yielded to bondage unawares
'Tis strange, while the world still grows and thrives,
So little is claimed by mothers and wives.

Some rights to woman, do [-]en concede,
Of which we ought to be proud indeed
The right to live, to love, to mate,
The right to brighten man's lonesome fate,
To drain from Nature's bitterest cup,
The dregs, that Mothers alone may sup;
The right to maternal care and toil
The right to be easy about the sp[-]i[-],
To ble[-]s mankind from their earliest breath,
And comfort them e'en to the verge of death,
In peace and war to softly tread,
And smooth with kindness the sufferers bed;
To stand at her post like a heroine brave,
To bless, to brighten. to soothe, to save.
'Tis strange that a woman has no right.
To simple justice, without a fight;

There are men we know, both honest and true,
Alas for women they are but few!
Who plead our cause, yet they plead in vain,
Woman fair woman! still wears a chain.
'Tis a mournful fact: should she chance to care,
To onward move, lo! The chain is there.
If we stand but still, nor progressive be,
We may wear these chains to Eternity;
And like many a woman, never know,
That gallantry often, is outside show.

Man is unpinion'd, free as air,
No social drag is he doomed to wear
He has physical strength, he has money and might,
Should he monopolize every right
Nature and custom hath made him free,
Surely he ought to generous be.
Would a woman be less kind and true,
If her honest aims were unfettered too?
Is a woman spoilt? is she vain at all?
Because the sunshine doth on her fall?
Doth she kneel to man, for the sunsbeams bright?
She simply enjoys them! it is her right.

Not a woman in twenty perchance will care,
The right of suffrage with man to share:
Not one in a thousand will have the face,
To office hold in a public place;
But it is her right, if she has the time.
And ability too, all heights to climb,
And who in justice, will dare deny,
That woman's efforts are true and high?
Who bears the Statesman, the soldier too?
And tries to make them brave and true?
From many a crime would this world be freed,
If their mother's teachings mankind would heed,
Is it not truly to man a shame,
That the mothers of men, their rights must claim?
Were they grateful only? would men remain
Careless, while woman wears a chain?

						EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.


[Column 1]
A CHAPTER FOR YOUNG MARRIED
FOLKS.

	My dear young friends, who are just
starting out upon your voyage through the
sea of matrimony, I wish you a long and
happy one. Of all the institutions that af-
fect human weal or woe, none is greater than
marriage. All the happiness and blessed-
ness that attends the married state depends
upon the honesty and wisdom of that union.
Marriage is not always a blessing it may be

[Column 2]
the bitterest curse. Of all pictures pres-
ented in the book of life, an illy-mated pair
is the most wretched. But a proper soul-
linked union is a constant, heaven born joy.
But do not think because you have such a
dear kind companion, that you can live only
with his smiles and caresses, for they are
very uncertain, especially when your whole
happiness depends upon them. Our Father
says He is a jealous God, and wants not a
divided heart, and that "Curseth is he who
maketh flesh his arm." But let us be sub-
ject to the principles of righteousness, wear-
ing the ornament of a meek and lowly spirit,
which, in the sight of God, is a "pearl of
great price," and if there is any way, by
which we can escape some of the evils of
life, let us strive to learn it, and if we do
not always suit each other, let us not sit
down and grieve and fret over it, but go to
our heavenly Father, and ask Him for his
Spirit to guide us, then reason with each
other, and strive to make the best of every
thing.
	You will often hear the remark that it is
the most gifted, gnereous, good-hearted
fellows, that oftenest fall into habits of in-
temperance, but I think the saying can
neither boast of truth nor sense.
	I will give yeu two illustrations: Two
young couples of my acquaintance were
married, having, as near as I can judge
about the same amount of property. One
man bought himself a nice little home,
went to Salt Lake to be married, and there
bought furniture to make his home comfort-
able, on his return gave a nice little party
to his particular friends having nothing
stronger than tea to drink and mirth and
pleasure beamed on every face. I have
visited them since, and she welcomed me
with such quiet modest grace and pride to
her comfortable, happy home, that it filled
my heart with joy.
	The other couple were married at St.
George at the residence of the bride's father.
He gave a famous supper and ball to every
one for miles around, and wine and strong
drinks with the refreshments.

	The affair was jolly but not pleasent.
After the expenses were paid, and the frolic
over, he had just five dollars left, but he is
such a good-hearted, generous fellow, you
can go to his house with a dozen friends,
and he would feel insulted if you offered
him pay for his accommodations.

	Six months after the wedding, I
visited my brother, when who should his
neighbor be but our generous friend? My
niece and I called to see them. She met us
at the door, with tears in her eyes, which she
explained were caused from smoke. She
invited us to sit down out doors, as the
room was so filled with smoke we could not
see in it, but we ascertained she had not
furniture to make things comfortable; and I
could not help thinking, and asking myself,
how is this, does he think more of such
friends as he treated at his wedding than
he does of his wife? Or is it selfishness, tha[-]
he indulges himself in, and denies his wife
tho common necessities of life.She appeared
to think it was all generosity;but I thought
was it generous to give those poor weak
souls so much wine, and thereby excite
their appetite for it, and rob himself and

[Column 3]
wife the comfort they might have taken in a
pleasant home. And she seemed so patient
and hopeful, never deeming it a fault in
him, but bearing all such things in uncom-
plaining silence, afraid to show him his
error, lest she should wound his generous
heart; when, perhaps, a little reasoning
and plain talk, might have caused him to
see the folly of such proceedings.
	I have given these illustrations to show
the result of the paths pursued by those
two young men; hoping it may help and
encourage the young married folks who
read it, for in starting out together in life,
they need advice, encouragement and as-
sistance.
	Weaver,in his "Aims and Aids for young
women," in speaking on the subject of
marriage, says: "The mottoe of each should
be, 'I will be do and bear all I can, and
ask as little as possible." These are
golden words of advice.
						GYPSY GOLDEN.


NOTES AND NEWS

	TELEGRAM from Washington Jan. 28,
states that the nomination of Eli H.
Murray of Kentucky for Governer of Utah
had been confirmed by the United States
Senate.

	GOVERNOR Long, of Massachusetts, An-
dress, of Connecticut, and Cornell, of New
York, are all reported as having made fa-
vorable mention of Woman Suffrage in
their respective messages.

	THE Iowa Woman Suffragists are winning
the support of the "State Register" and
other influential papers in that State. They
have good ground to expect favorable action
from their Legislature.

	A MEETING of the New York Woman
Suffrage Society was held in January, at
the headquarters of the Society, No. 103
West Forty-eighth street. Mrs. L. D.
Blake made a brief address, in which she
alluded to the passage in Governor Cornell's
message favorable to the election of women
to school offices. This, she said, was a vic-
tory for the Society, and a reward for its
patient efforts during the last five years. It
was also gratifying that the Hon. Thomas
Ecclesine, who had so strongly opposed
Woman Suffrage during his last term of
office, had been defeated, in part through
the Society's efforts, in the last campaign.
A resolution was passed thanking Governor
Cornell for keeping the pledge he had made
privately regarding the school question.
J. N. H, Wilcox reported that a bill had
already been drawn up at Albany author-
izing women to hold offices in the schools.
It had been placed in the hands of General
Husted, who would present it before the
Legislature at an early day. It was de-
cided to call upon Francis A. Walker, who
is at the head of the Census Bureau at
Washington, for information regarding
what course should be pursued to make
women eligible to the office of census-taker
under the service of the Bureau.	*	*	*
A paper discussing the rights of women
was read by Charles Peasey; another paper
relating to the injustice of the present laws
governing the Probate Court was read by
Mrs. J. W. Stowe, formerly of California.


130		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SPEECH OF HON. C. W. PENROSE,

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

	"Utah is the home of liberty for all, and
peculiarly the sanctuary for woman. Here
all her rights are popularly acknowledged
and accorded; here she is protected and de-
fended; here the conventionalities which
have kept her in bondage for ages are
thrown aside by the force of an enlightened
estimate of her capabilities, and an enlarged
view of her claims as an integral part of the
body politic.
	The right to vote has already been con-
ferred upon her. The laws of the nation
declare her a citizen equally with man; the
laws of this Territory give her equal rights
with man at the polls. This has worked no
injury to any, but will necessarily result in
good. For the power of the suffrage will
develop thought, and its responsibilities
give occasion for reflection,and the enlarged
capacities of woman which will be the nat-
ural consequence, will be transmitted to her
offspring, and benefits will thus accru[-] to
the State in the coming generation. None
of the disasters predicted by the opponents
of woman suffrage have occurred in this
Territory. The women have exercised
their power in wisdom, and have shown
their fitness for the trust reposed in them.
They have not been degraded or polluted
by dabbling in the waters of politics, and
are just as good wives, mothers, sisters,
cousins and aunts as before receiving the
elective franchise.
	Recently they have had some voice in
our caucuses and conventions and nominat-
ing committees; and who can say, truthful-
ly, that this has been in any way inimical to
the community? Giving them the right to
vote without the right to a voice in the ar-
rangement of a ticket or platform on which
to vote would be partial and inconsistent.
	Having done so much for woman's cause,
why halt in timid hesitation before the
last barrier to her political freedom? The
word "male" in our statutes defining the
qualifications of citizens for holding office,
is a relic of the old system of woman's vas-
salage. It is a standing reflection upon her
sex. It is a plain. assertion of her inferi-
ority. It says virtually, "No matter how
wise, intellectual, honest, thrifty, able and
gifted a woman may be, she is not fit to be
entrusted with the responsibilities of the
smallest office in the gift of the people." If
this is not its meaning, then it is a selfish
declaration that all the honors and emolu-
ments of every office shall be reserved to
the stronger sex, because man has the pow-
er to elbow woman out into the cold and
keep her there.
	There are some offices for which women
are not adapted. But are there not also
some offices for which many men are not
adapted? Yet no man, however inefficient,
is debarred by statutory provisions from
such positions. But woman is shut out
from all, and this purely and solely because
she is woman. It is not asked that certain
offices be set apart for either sex. We are
simply requested to move this ugly and
staring brand of woman's political inferority
from our statues book; to render it possi-
ble for women to fill such offices as they
may be fitted to occupy with honor to
themselves and profit to the people. The
good sense of the great body of electors of
both sexes must determine what those
offices may be, and, as in the case of man,
which persons are the most competent to
fill them.
	The bill will not secure a single office to a
single woman—or a married one either. But

[Column 2]
it will break down in Utah a wall which is in
the way of the march of progress,and every
stone and brick of which will yet be entirely
ramoved in every nation that is really civil-
lized. Massachusetts and other States have
commenced the work. Women there can
not only vote on school matters, but hold
official positions on school boards and other
State educational organizations. They
have the same privileges in Kansas. In
Utah, where the elevation of woman as
man's companion, not his slave, is the pre-
vailing social theory, she cannot, under the
law, hold any office of any kind whatever.
	Cache County would have elected a lady
to the office of County Superintendent of
Schools, one who had proven to the people-
her ample qualifications for the post, but
the law forbade it. Salt Lake County con-
templated nominating a talented lady for
the office of County Treasurer, but the dis-
ability which this bill seeks to remove
stood grimly in the way. Now, I do not
cite these as sample offices to which women
should be elected, but merely refer to these
facts in illustration of the subject, and to
show reasons why the discriminating and
egotistical word "male" should be expunged
from the statutes relating to qualifications
for office. Used in this connection, it is a
slur on our wives and sisters and mothers.
It is a vestige of the barbaric estimate of
the gentler sex. Away with it. Blot it out
with the pen of a progressive age and the
ink of advanced ideas. Let it go with its
companion that once stood in the way of
woman suffrage, but was swept into the
limbo of antiquated measures by the besom
of the act of 1870. Give to the women of
Utah—there are none better in the world—
full, perfect and complete political liberty!"


[Column 1]
AN ADDRESS.

CONTINUED.

	Gratz Brown, of Mo., said years ago in
the U. S. Senate, "I stand for Universal
Suffrage, and do not recognize the right of
society to limit it on account of color or
sex." Wnether suffrage is a right or privi-
lege, natural or conventional, its denial to
woman is equally indefensible. Minors be-
come of age, slaves are emancipated, luna-
tics regain reason, idiots even are some-
times endowed with intelligence, criminals
are pardoned, traitors are amnestied, dis-
franchised males of every class shed their
disabilities and are restored to liberty; but
the fact of sex—the crime of womanhood—
dooms one to perpetual vassalage. Not the
ability to drink: chew, smoke, lie, steal and
swear, votes. Intellect, conscience, charac-
ter are supposed to vote, and the boy
proudly becoming a citizen before his
mother, is crowned a sovereign at twenty-
one, because in thought, discretion, he
ceases to crawl as an animal, but stands an
upright intelligence. Prof. Walker, in his
"Introduction to American Law," says:
	"We believe the whole theory of the
Common Law in relation to woman is un-
just and degrading, tending to reduce her
to a level with the slave, depriving her of
political existence,and forming a positive ex-
ception to the great doctrine of equality as
set forth in the Declaration of Independence
In the language of Prof. Walker, in his "In-
troduction to American Law," "Women
have no part or lot in the foundation or ad-
ministration of the government. They
cannot vote or hold office. They are re-
quired to contribute their share, by way of
taxes, to the support of the government but
are allowed no voice in its direction. They
are amenable to the laws when made, but

[Column 2]
are allowed no share in making them. This
language, when applied to males, would be
the exact definition of political slavery."
Is it just or wise that woman, in the largest
and professedly the freest and most en-
lightened nineteenth century, should be
thus degraded?
	We would especially direct the attention
of the Convention to the legal condition of
married women. Not being represented in
those bodies from which emanate the laws,
to which they are obliged to submit, they
are protected neither in person nor proper-
ty. "The merging of woman's name in
that of her husband is emblematical of the
fate of all her legal rights." At the mar-
riage altar the law divests her of all dis-
tinct individuality. Blackstone says: "the
very being, or legal existence of the woman
is suspended during marriage, or at least
incorporated or consolidated into that of  her
husband." Legally, she ceases to exist,
and becomes emphatically a new creature,
and is ever after denied the dignity of a
rational and acco[-]ntable being. The hus-
band is allowed to take possession of her
estates, as the law has proclaimed her le-
gally dead. All that she has becomes le-
gally his, and he can collect and dispose of
the profits of her labor without her consent,
as he thinks fit, and she can own nothing
which is not regarded by the law as belong-
ing to her husband. Over her person he
has a more limited power. Still, if he ren-
der life intolerable, so that she is forced to
leave him, he has the power to retain her
children, and "seize her and bring her
back," for he has a right to her society
which he may enforce, either against her-
self or any other person who detains her."
(Walker, page 226.)

(To be continued.)


NEW YEAR'S PARTY.

	The regular monthly meeting of the
Relief Society of Wellsville happening on
New Year's Day, the sisters concluded to
make it the occasion for a surprise to their
worthy President Sister Ellen Whiton. A
committee consisting of Sisters Jane Leath-
am, Barbary Maughan,Mary Owens, Sarah
A. Walters and Elizabeth Owens undertook
the management of the affair. Ready at
the appointed time for meeting, a table, ex-
tending the full length of the Relief House,
was arranged, and spread with all the
luxuries that could please the eye or de-
light the taste of an epicure. When every
thing was ready a sleigh was sent to con-
vey Sister Whiton to meeting as she
entered the room her surprise can be better
imagined than described. After being
conducted to the seat provided for her,
Sister Jane Leatham in a few choice re-
marks presented her with an elegant cloak
as a token of the esteem and affection of her
sisters. Sister Whiton was so overcome by
these demonstrations that for some time an
impressive silence was her only response.
A blessing upon all the bounties provided
and all engaged in providing them was
asked by onr esteemed Bishop Wm. H.
Maughan.
	After partaking of the sumptuous repast,
Sister Whiton was called for,and responded
in a short and impressive address, after
which songs, speeches, recitations, etc. in-
terspesed with excellent music from our
Brass Band, followed until darkness dis-
persed the participants in the most enjoyable
occasion the winter has ever had the pleas-
ure of witnessing.
			Jane Leatham, Reporter.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		1


﻿THE LOVED AND LOST.

The loved and lost! Why do we call them lost?
	Because we miss them from our onward road?
God's unseen angel o'er our pathway crost,
Looked on us all, and loving them the most,
	Straightway relieved them from life's weary load.

They are not lost; they are within the door
	That shuts out loss, and every hurtful thing—
With angels bright, and loved ones gone before,
In their Redeemer's presence evermore,
	And God Himself, their Lord, and Judge and King

And this we call a loss! O selfish sorrow
	Of selfish hearts! O we of little faith;
Let us look round, argument to borrow
Why we in patience should await the morrow
	That surely must succeed this night of death,

Aye, look upon this dreary desert path,
	The thorns and thistles whereso'er we turn;
What trials and what tears, what wrongs and wrath.
What struggles and what strife the journey hath!
	They have escaped from these; and lo! we mourn.

Ask the poor sailor, when the wreck is done,
	Who with his treasures strove the shore to reach,
While with the raging waves he battled on,
was it not joy, where every joy seemed gone,
	To see his loved ones landed on the beach?

A poor wayfarer, leading by the hand
	A little child, had halted by the well
To wash from off her feet the clinging sand,
And tell the tired boy of that bright land
	Where,this long journey past, they longed to dwell,

When lo! the Lord, who many mansions had,
	Drew near and looked upon the suffering twain,
Then pitying spake, "Give me the little lad;
In strength renewed, and glorious beauty clad,
	I'll bring him with me when I come agrin."

Did she make answer selfishly and wrong—
	"Nay, but the woes I feel he, too, must share!"
Or rather, bursting into grateful song,
She went her way rejoicing, and made strong
	To struggle on, since he was freed from care.

We will do likewise, death hath made no breach
	In love and sympathy, in hope and trust,
No outward sign or sound our ears can reach,
But there's an inward, spiritual speech
	That greets us still, though mortal tongues be dust

It bids us do the work that they laid down—
	Take up the song where they broke off the strain;
So journeying till we reach the heavenly town,
Where are laid up our treasures and our crown,
	And our lost loved ones will be found again.

[handwritten on right margin] E. B. W.


[Column 1]
CHARLOTTE BRONTE.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	No woman's library can be complete
without the life of "Currer Bell," her nom
de plume; or, indeed, without her works,
Jane Eyre especially—but "Shirley" and
"Vilette" are as dear to me, and in my
estimation are as valuable. Both as an
author and as a woman, as a daughter, a
sister, a friend, in all these complex, rela-
tive positions Charlotte Bronte stands out
in bold relief as an exemplar to be loved,
admired, respected and exalted. Her life
must be read with intense interest and
sympathy.
	They were a marvellously gifted family,
and were singularly afflicted. Their father
was a clergyman of the Church of England,
Rector of Hawarth, Yorkshire, England,
and as we catch glimpses of his character,
he seems in the main to have been a good
man; his afflictions were heavy, and that
may form some excuse for what I cannot
but call an obtuse mind, for it seems such a
gifted family as he possessed would have
called out any paternal soul to the highest
exertion and enthusiasm. I merely allude
to this to show that the life of his gifted
daughter was an early sacrifice to the heavy
load she had through all her life to carry,
augmented by this inertia. He also was
not fond of children, and did not like to be
intruded upon by them; he was devotedly
attached to his wife, and was ever kind and

[Column 2]
attentive to her. This lady died young,
leaving five little motherless children, Char-
lotte being the eldest; she at once took
upon herself to become the child-mother,
and fulfilled this holy office till the last
child had passed away. Her life was one
long scene of harassing trials, of wearing
responsibilities, sorrows and cares, till her
own life was yielded in the martyrdom of
maternity, within the year of her marriage,
after seeing every member of her family
(except her father) pass away.
	I feel that much that her works contain
were the scenes of her own life. They
were a highly and singularly gifted family,
even as little children; they knew no life
of childhood—they, were matured by early
family sorrows, by the long illness of their
mother, and by the strong love and unity
that bound them as little creatures to each
other with a tenacity that was wonderful,
and this lasted through their lives. And
here is where my complaint comes in
against her father. When Charlotte had
developed into the gifted and accomplished
author, when she had established herself as
an oracle for the women of this generation,
that she must still be the drudge, as it were,
of the domestic circle; but after all, this
shows out the grandeur of her character.
She was a complete business woman, which
her letters testify. I remember when "Jane
Eyre" appeared there was a perfect furore
among all the reading classes; the charac-
ter was so new, so self-reliant, so prompt
and decided, yet withal so womanly—but
such a woman as had not appeared in any
book yet written, that a new phase was
opened to the attributes and capabilities of
woman. It portrayed her standing alone,
marking out her own destiny, and carrying
it out in her development. Had she been
watched and cared for she might have been
a shining light to-day in all that concerns
the progressing life of woman.
	But I would say to my readers, take her
life and study it carefully, for there is every-
thing in it that can exalt a woman, and not
moving one step out of her own sphere, yet
shedding a light and a glory upon it that
all would do well to imitate. Her "Jane
Eyre," "Shirley" and Lucy Snowe," are
indeed model women; they are not finely
spun, tinseled characters, but women that
in the course of our lives we have seen
glimpses of—sufficient to give us an assur-
ance that these book-characters are taken
from the life and not from the imagination,
and we rise from the perusal stronger,
brighter, better, and with a determination
that we will take them as our models, and
more especially she who was the living ora-
cle. Read her life—one scene of schooling,
of severe trials, and yet out of it rose the
author, the accomplished writer for women
of the 19th century. Charlotte Bronte is
immortal, on earth and in heaven.


WOMAN'S SPHERE.

	Where is the true Sphere of Woman is a
question that is agitating the public mind
not a little—well if after careful, prayerful,
honest considerations any woman thinks
she can do the most good to humanity gen-
rally—by entering the Lecture field, the
Pulpit or any of the avenues of life usually
filled by men, if I say, she is convinced,
that here lies her life’s work—then I say to
her God-Speed—but be very careful my
Sister and search well your own heart, lest
it be a love of notoriety, publicity and even
money that leads you forth in this direction.
	No, no I would not have women dead
heads I would have them educated intel-


ligent, pure and true, but I would have
them fill the places designed for them by
their Creator, for there I think they can do
the most good, and exert the greatest in-
fluence. I would have them in HOMES, as
wives and mothers, and let no one think it
not a high and holy office to be a Mother;
to train the little ones in paths of truth, and
right, lead them on to virtue, guide the
footsteps so they falter not, but press on to
the mark of their high calling. Oh is it
not an important thing to train an immor-
tal mind teach it to think and act and then
send it forth to do good for all coming time?
'Tis a holy work, 'tis God's work 'tis woman's
work and for this will be given a crown of
glorious immortality. Through life she
may have borne many ills, they may have
been full of care and labor, yet when she
draws near to the end when Earth and
earthly scenes are about to fade away, then,
Oh then, she will feel that she has performed
faithfully the work of her Maker, that she
has endeavored to be true to the position
God placed her in when He created her wo-
man.
	God grant that every woman may take
her proper Sphere in life, bravely, bear it
on triumphantly and feel to exclaim Blessed
Yes, thrice blessed be woman! and heaven
be praised for this precious boon, of being,
a Woman, a Wife, and a Mother.
					SISTER PLUNKETT.


CORRESPONDENCE.

MRS. WELLS:

	Dear Sister—	*	*	*	Since
my return to Sevier Stake, I enjoyed myself
very much in visiting, with Sisters Bean,
Thurber and Hunt; the settlements of Wil-
low Bend, where was organized a Relief
Society and a Primary Association; Salina,
where was re-organized a Relief Society, a
Primary and a Silk Association; and at
Pedmond, where was organized a Primary
Association. Newly returned from the
cold world, I was in a good condition to ap-
preciate meeting with the Saints and wit-
nessing the labors of our sisters in their
callings. I recognize in these organiza-
tions great good for Israel.
	Hoping that the Lord may bless you and
all who labor for Zion, is the desire of your
co-laborer,
					W. H. SEGMILLER.


MRS Duniway says: Twenty-five years
ago it would not have been possible for any
woman to become the principal in a public
school; and any woman who presumed to
aspire to such a position was as loftily
sneered at by silly and ignorant opponents
of woman's enfranchisement, which alone
opened the way, as she herself now affects
to sneer at women who are removing fur-
ther obstacles in their way.

	WASHINGTON, 23.—Mrs. Wallace, of In-
diana; Lucinda B. Chandler, Pennsylvania;
Susan B. Anthony, and other delegates to
the Woman's Suffrage Association, made
arguments to-day before the Senate com-
mittee, in. favor of the Sixteenth Amend-
ment to the Constitution, to enfranchise
woman.

	IN OUR dreams we are specially ourselves
the theatre, the actor and beholder. Mys-
teriously we converse with beings of our
own creation. How vividly the scenes pass
by, reflecting on the glowing fields of mind!
Heraclitas says, "when we are awake, we
live like others in one common world, when
we sleep each has a world of his own.
							R. R. G.


132		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.	-	-	-	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, FEB. 1, 1880.


[Column 1]
AGITATION IS EDUCATIONAL.

	It was altogether unexpected to the ladies
who petitioned the Legislature to pass some
enactment this session which would remove
the political disabilities of women, and make
them eligible to office, to have created such an
agitation. They thought the subject was bet-
ter understood—were not aware so many old
traditions still clung to the people of this pro-
gressive age. But after all, it is educational—
the people are beginning to think upon the
woman question; it has assumed another phase
now. Some thought, no doubt, it was at a
dead stand still; women could vote, and there
it was to stop forever. But lo, and behold!
voting is not quite enough; and after having
given them a piece of a loaf, they naturally
want more. Not by sitting down silently and
waiting for it is one likely to get what is want-
ed. "If it is not worth asking for it is not worth
having." I know some say, "You didn't peti-
tion for the suffrage, and it was given you
without any intercession whatever." Well,
if the women of Utah didn't ask for the bal-
lot, other women did; if they hadn't, the sis-
ters here might have waited long enough.
	"The majority don't want it," is another ex-
cuse. Ah, we would like to be sure of that
fact; but even if they do not, there are some
who do, and the others would, if they had be-
come more enlightened upon the subject. Per-
haps it would have been better to have sent in
individual petitions, as the women are doing
all over the States, here and there, beseeching
Congress to prohibit the several States from
disfranchising United States citizens on account
of sex. However, it is quite possible this will
create more of anagitation than that would, and
those who have stepped forward in this matter
have done so to promote good; and if there is
need to stop and weigh the question, all right
—when people begin to study a theme in ear-
nest they generally improve, and gradually
light dawns upon them, and the mists disperse
and shadows are dispelled. We trust it will be
so with this; it looms up darkly now, and
seems a terrific, huge bugbear; but examine it
carefully, it will not be half so forbidding.
	Positively one would think, to hear some
people talk, that the ranks of wives and moth-
ers were going to be deserted; that the homes
were going to be desolated, and every pretty,
dainty little creature would want an office, in-
stead of a home. How ridiculous this all is!
Women who have opinions of their own are
able to counsel wiih their husbands in regard
to the home and the children. They carry
their own burdens along more easily than the
innocent, unsophisticated, frivolous, who de-
pend solely upon some one else's judgment all
their life long. They tell us women will have

[Column 2]
to dispense with the gallantry of the opposite
sex when they enter the lists with men. Then
man will have to dispense with the attentions
and caresses of woman which make life so
pleasant. If men cannot afford to be gallant
to women who are their equals in intellect and
education, then women will be careful not to
throw away their sweet attractions, and there
will, perhaps, be more fair play than there is
nowadays, and it will not be such a one-sided
affair as it has been.

	After all, women are very generous creatures,
and it is very likely they would prefer nomi-
nating some man for office, rather than a wo-
man,because "that same" would be very experi-
mental; and really it is very strange that men
should object to the dear creatures acting in
public offices with them. We never have
heard of men objecting to women going out
to wash, unless it was a Chinamen, who was
afraid of losing his custom; usually, too, men
are quite willing women should get their living
by sewing, at starvation prices; these are le-
gitimate spheres for women to occupy; and
yet, methinks many a woman has more men-
tal ability than physical strength, and those
who are so fond of quoting Scripture to prove
man's authority over woman, seem to forget
that the Lord said to man, and not to woman,
by the sweat of his brow should he eat, &c.
But women do work nevertheless, and "bring
forth in sorrow" too, but are not permitted the
opportunity of regulating their own wages in
the least. How often is it said by those who
employ help, "we get women's help, because
they work cheaper." Indeed! Do they do the
work as well? O yes; only you know women
can't command such salaries as men can. Now
we may not be very wise, but really it seems
all this is wrong. It is the system of oppress-
ing the weaker by those in power. And yet
men will tell you they represent women, and
do them more ample justice than they would
do each other. Then if women had influence
they might be more generous to men. No
doubt they would be. The very fact of being
politically equal would have a most concilia-
tory and happifying effect.
	But to come back to Utah and the question
as it stands here. We are told by some that to
ask for more political freedom than the sisters
now enjoy is aggressive; we answer, if it is ag-
gressive it is also progressive; it indicates pro-
gression, and we are anxious to see women ad-
vance. A young Brahmin asked, "Why is it
that India has stood still for the last five hun-
dred years, while all Europe and her colonies
have made such wonderful progress, both in
the arts and sciences?" The reply was, "Your
women are children, even to old age; the wo-
men of the Occident are learning to keep step
with the men in scientific pursuits." If such
is the result of partial freedom to women, then
when larger opportunities and incentives are
given for culture, there will be a higher degree
of attainment. Woman stands not alone; what-
ever privilege is given her, man is benefitted
and ennobled by. If the mothers can reach
the realization of the highest ideals, then will
the vantage ground of progress be gained. It
must be through an enlightened motherhood
that the world will become better. Women
must become more capable, and the work will
necessarily be more practical than theoretical;
in fact, this is a practical age. How much, for
instance would the women of this Territory
have learned about the ballot in ten years, if
they had not had the practical experience?
One has only to examine into the educational
advantages of the sexes, to see how unequally
rights and privileges are distributed. In this
Territory no woman, however well qualified,

[Column 3]
can be a Superintendent, or even a trustee, o
common schools; and yet, many men will ad-
mit there are ladies here specially well quali-
fied and adapted to these positions. Is there
any good or wholesome reason why the law
should not be amended to admit of it? As we
understand Republican government, its essen-
tial elements are opposed to all discrimination
among citizens (and women who have the bal-
lot are citizens), to feudalism,orders of nobility,
and privileged classes. But here there is dis
crimination among citizens. Well, the ques-
tion is now before the people, and it is bringing
out their thoughts and feelings on the subject.
But the Latter-day Saints should not be gov-
erned by feelings, but by principle. We are
very glad the subject has been broached, and
perfectly willing to bear our share of the blame,
the ridicule, or the sneers, for the sake of the
good it will do towards enlightening the peo-
ple.		[handwritten] E. B. Wells


HOME AFFAIRS.

	A FEW ladies have attended the Legislature
as visitors now and then; would there were
more. It is good to go and see how they make
and amend the laws which govern women as
well as men. Hear their arguments and con-
sider them—look at them from your own stand-
point.

	BE sure and read the speech of Hon. C. W.
Penrose, published in this issue. The ladies
are greatly indebted to Hon. C. W. Penrose and
Hon. John Jacques, two Members from Salt Lake
Co., who ably advocated the woman's bill before
the House.Excuse it,but,as the Southerners say,
the woman question is calling out some "pow-
derful weak" arguments from its opponents.

	AT a sister's Conference of Morgan Co., an
expression of the meeting was taken on what
is termed the woman's bill, but there was only
a minority vote; however, we have been relia-
bly informed that all the most intelligent ladies
voted for it, and the majority did not under-
stand it—the subject was too new. That sounds
strange from women who have been voting ten
years.

	THE Ladies' Leap Year Ball, held in Jen-
nings Hall, Thursday evening, Jan. 22, was a
most unique affair. Several of the ladies took
a number of partners, and we are informed
they did not neglect them, but paid them every
attention, and there were no wallflowers among
the company. This not only does the ladies
credit, but shows they observe the Golden
Rule, "Do unto others as you would they
should do unto you."

	AT the meeting of the directors o[-] the silk
association, at President Taylor's office, Thurs-
day, Jan. 15, Mrs. Zina D. Young resigned her
position as President of the former association,
and Hon. Wm. Jennings was elected President,
Miss E. R. Snow Vice President, Mr. A. M.
Musser, Secretary, and Mr. P. A. Schettler
Treasurer. Speeches complimentary to those
who had heretofore worked so earnest'y in this
matter were made, and it was the se[-]se of the
meeting that the industry be pushed [--] a suc-
cessful issue.

	THE Relief Society Party and Re-union in
the Twelfth Wsrd, on Friday evening, Jan. 23,
was really a very pleasant one indeed. Speeches
were made in the afternoon by Mrs. M. I.
Horne, Pres. John Taylor; Bishop Pyper and
others; there were also songs and recitations.
The little girls of the Primary Association,
under the direction of Mrs. E. S. Clawson,
sang some choice selections very sweetly.


[Column 1]
The supper was as sumptuous as the entertain-
ment was agreeable, and everybody seemed to
be in a happy mood. The evening entertain-
ment, which consisted of music and dancing,
was opened with prayer by Elder Joseph E.
Taylor. Pres. John Taylor and Mrs. Sophia
W. Taylor led out in the first dance, and the
evening was passed in pleasant pastime and
social conversation. The party was indeed a
complete success.

	IN this city, Thursday, Jan. 15, 1880, Miss
Libbie Beatie and Heber M. Wells were united
in marriage, Pres. D. H. Wells, the father of
the bridegroom, performing the ceremony. A
reception was given in the evening at the resi-
dence of the bride's parents, which was nu-
merously attended by relatives and friends.
The repast served on the occasion was profuse
with delicacies and most tempting to the Epi-
curean. The presents were elegant and appro-
priate, and judging from the number of them,
one would conclude they had at least the "dear
five hundred friends." May their happiness be
as complete as the present bright prospect in-
dicates, and all the sweet domestic joys that
wait upon the pure and good be the dower
which Providence shall send to crown their
union. We wish them all the blessings of long
life, peace, and that experience which will be
most fruitful a harvest of good deeds.

	ON Wednesday, Jan. 21, 1880, in this city,
Miss Minnie Horne and W. D. James, Esq.,
were united in marriage, Pres. D. H. Wells
performing the ceremony. There was a pleas-
ant party of friends at the residence of the
bride's parents, to celebrate the happy occasion.
The sumptuous dinner was graced with the
presence of Pres. John Taylor and Mrs. Maggie
Taylor, Pres. D. H. Wells and Mrs. E. B.
Wells, Bishop R. T. Burton and ladies, Wm.
Jennings, Esq., and wife, and many other
ladies and gentlemen, relatives and friends of
both families. Many elegant and exquisite
presents were received by the happy pair. In
the evening a large number of young people
assembled, and wedding cake, with choice re-
freshments were served in the most hospitable
manner.
	We extend our sincere congratulations to the
newly wedded pair, and trust their lives may
be as happy as is consistent with earth's ex-
periences, that there may be more sunshine
than shadow upon their onward path; and
whatever betide them, that they be forever
firm in those principles which will lead them
to an eternal exaltation hereafter.

	THE Legislature now in session are pushing
on their work vigorously. The several com-
mittees are engaged almost constantly, when
not in session, in deliberation and consultation
over petitions, memorials, reports, and bills,
relating to changes in the Compiled Laws of
the Territory, &c. A bill for an act prescribing
fees for the Secretary of Utah Territory, after
having been slightly amended, passed both
House and Council without any discussion;
also a few other bills; but the ladies and the
people of Rich Co. have not been quite as for-
tunate in this respect. The merits and demer-
its of both these bills have been warmly dis-
cussed in the House. We understand the bill
to change the boundaries of Rich County is
lost. Hon. John Murdock, on Monday, Jan.
26, presented a petition from Beaver, signed by
Louisa B. Pratt and three hundred and eighty-
two others, asking for the removal of the po-
litical disabilities of women, and making them
eligible to office. The petition will be found
in another column. We understand, too, that
there is a petition in the possession of a Mem-
ber of the Council from the ladies of Juab Co.,

[Column 2]
which has not yet been presented. The Hon.
Member in the House from said County says,
"The petition has mostly been signed through
newspaper advocacy." Let the people of Utah
congratulate themselves on having such educa-
tional newspapers.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		133


HERALD.—NO. 2.

	It was once "stamped upon the mind of the
leading men" in the British Parliament that
the English could most wisely and judiciously
decide all governmental questions relating to
Americans, whom they considered their sub-
jects and inferiors. A few Americans wore
different colored glasses, and, looking to the fu-
ture good, allowed their motives to be misun-
derstood by some and misrepresented by oth-
ers, while they (vainly, shall I say?) peti-
tioned.
	Parliament, in its assumed dignity and
strength, spurned respectful petitions from
American men; but the "backbone" of the
justice and right of said petition was thereby
strengthened. American men as tax payers,
with no decided opinions upon public policy,
were "admirable;" but when they expressed a
wish to help guide the Ship of State to such
harbor as seemed to them desirable and good
for them and their generations after them, not
only was a Parliamentary majority's cold
shoulder turned, but radicals talked of pros-
pective office-hunters, and the rabble foamed,
while the more conservative contented them-
selves with an undefinable—UGH.,
	Lomond, with all his clear sightedness, has
not discovered that it is only the favored few
women who are permitted to realize that the
man is responsible to a greater extent than the
woman for providing for his family; and that
the thoughtful woman who need not provide
the bread feels a moral responsibility relating
to the laws and associations that must have an
important bearing on her household, in com-
mon with the community.

	A member opposing woman's disabilities
bill says, "woman's voting works well enough,
and I am disposed to let well enough alone.'
This, put in other words, reads, the women
have by their votes placed me in this well-
cushioned seat, where my voice has weight,
and that is enough. I prefer to have them oc-
cupy the back, hard benches.
								RHEUMA.


DEATH OF AMELIA M. FRODSHAM.

	Died, in Ogden City, at the residence of
Mayor L. J. Herrick, at fifteen minutes to
twelve o'clock, midnight, Jan. 24, 1880, of a
tedious and lingering illness, Mrs. Amelia M.
Frodsham. Mrs. Frodsham was removed tem-
porarily on a visit, to the Mayor's residence,
thinking the change might prove beneficial.
	Deceased was the daughter of Joseph and
Amy C. Aldrich, and was born in Rochester,
N. Y., Aug. 7, 1826, and was baptized in 1841,
in Northbridge, Mass., and emigrated to Nau-
voo, Ill. With her mother she started for
Utah in 1852; her mother died by the way,
with cholera, and was buried upon the plains,
leaving her daughter without a relative. In
1853, in Salt Lake City, she was united in mar-
riage to the late James Frodsham. During her
widowhood she has supported herself and fam-
ily by teaching school, a calling which she had
followed previous to her marriage. She pos-
sessed many excellent capabilities, and was
well qualified, by nature and education, to fill
efficiently positions of trust and honor. She
acted as Secretary for the Relief Society of


Ogden for ten years, and when the Relief So-
ciety of Weber Co. was organized in a Stake
capacity, Mrs. F, was chosen as Secretary of
that board, because of her fitness and indomit-
able energy in work of that character. She
also acted as agent for the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for Ogden City from the date of its publication,
and faithfully performed all these duties. The
lady was also President of the Fourth Ward
Primary Association of Ogden, and was pecu-
liarly adapted to the work, having a remarka-
ble tact and adaptability, and a powerful influ-
ence over the little children, who were affec-
tionately attached to her. She was full of
charity, and possessed that rare saintly attri-
bute of speaking "of all the best she could."
It is said by those who were intimately asso-
ciated with her, that she never spoke evil of
any one. She was active and earnest in the
latter-day work, and anxious to do all in her
power to promote the interests of the various
organizations for the education and elevation
of women and children. She died full of faith
in a glorious resurrection, and the last words
upon her lips were blessings upon those who
had so faithfully attended upon her and ad-
ministered to her comfort and consolation.
She leaves one son and three daughters to
mourn her loss. The funeral services were
conducted at the residence of Mayor Herrick,
where her death occurred. Bishop N. C. Fly-
gare, Apostle F. D. Richards, and Coun. L. J.
Herrick each spoke upon the principles of the
Gospel, its efficacy in times of affliction, and
referred to the merits of the deceased lady, her
faith and good works.


PETITION OF CITIZENS OF BEAVER
AND OTHER PLACES.

To the Honorable Council and House of Rep-
	resentatives of the Legislative Assembly of
	the Territory of Utah:

	Your petitioners, residents of the Territory,
of Utah, would respectfully show unto your
Honorable Body, that by an act of the Legis-
lative Assembly of said Territory, approved
Feb. 12, 1870, the right of suffrage was con-
ferred upon the women of this Territory, but
eligibility to hold office was withheld. That
if it was the intention of the lawmakers of
this Territory to confer upon the women of the
Territory equal political rights with the men
thereof, said act falls short of the intention.
That the women of the Territory, as a class of
voters are discriminated against—they have
the shadow of citizenship, without the sub-
stance. That your petitioners consider that
the right of suffrage and the right to hold office
should be inseparable.
	Your petitioners, therefore, respectfully ask
that your Honorable Body, at the session
thereof for the year A. D. 1880, enact a law
conferring upon the women of the Territory of
Utah, who are qualified voters, eligibility to
hold office.
	And your petitioners will ever pray, &c.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED, very suddenly, at Harrisburg, Washing-
ton Co., Utah, Jan. 7,1880,Amy,infant daughter
of Zilpha D. and George Earl. She was born
Oct. 20, 1879. "The Lord giveth and the Lord
taketh away, blessed be the name of the
Lord."

	DIED, at Plain City Ward, Weber County,
Utah, Jan. 14, 1880, of old age, Sister Naomi
Ware, aged 86 years, 7 months, and 28 days.
	Deceased was born May 16, 1793, in Lenham


Kent Co., England, and was the daughter of
Samuel and Elizabeth Comfort. Baptized
Dec. 1838, by Elder Miles Romney, at Pen-
worthan, Lancashire, England, of the Preston
Conference; emigrated to Utah in 1855. She
was the mother of thirteen living children, a
member of the R. S., a very industrious wo-
man of strong character, unwavering in her
purpose, and a good Latter-day Saint. May
she rest in peace.				A. B.

	Susan Lucinda, daughter of James T. and
Elizabeth Strong, died with Pneumonia, in
the 10th Ward, S. L. City, Nov. 27, 1879. De-
ceased was born Jan. 21, 1865, in the same
ward of this city. She was a child of very
great faith, and when sick requested the Elders
to be called in often to administer to her. She
was a kind and loving girl, old-fashioned and
industrious, and was greatly beloved by all
who knew her. She was a faithful, active and
constant member of the Primary Association.
Her age at the time of her death was 14 years,
10 months and 5 days.

Farewell, dear Susie, till we meet again;
We would not call you back to gri[-]f and pain;
Watch thou for us upon the river shore,
With friends to greet us that have gone before.

	DIED, in Herriman, Salt Lake Co., Sunday
morning, Oct. 12, 1879, Rosina Silcox, wife of
Robert Dansie, Jun., and daughter of Thomas
N. and Jane Silcox. Deceased was born in
Salt Lake City, Jan. 27, 1856. She leaves a
husband and two children, father, mother and
friends to mourn her loss; one little child is
laid by her side. She was a kind and loving
wife, a tender and affectionate mother, an ex-
cellent neighbor. Mrs. D. was an active mem-
ber in the Relief Society and a teacher in the
Sunday School. Peace to her ashes. May we
live to make a record as clear and good as she
has made.

				MARY ANN V. TEMPEST.

	DIED, at Marriotsville, Weber County, Utah,
January 14, 1880, of Chills and Fever, Torberg
Kristine Halversen, wife of Simon F. Halver-
sen. Deceased was born at Oster Resor, Nor-
way, in November, 1836. Her age was 43 years,
1 month, and 22 days.

MEMORIAL OF RESPECT,

	To the memory of Sister Torberg Kristine
Halvorsen.

	Whereas, our much esteemed sister and fel-
low-laborer has, by Divine Providence, been
removed by the hand of death; and, whereas,
by her faith and good works having sustained
the principle of Celestial Marriage; therefore,
	Be it resolved, that we, the sisters of Mar-
riot's Ward R. S., deeply mourn her loss, and
sympathize with her bereaved husband and
family in the loss of so good, honored, esteemed
wife and friend.
	Resolved, that we tender to her bereaved
husband our heartfelt sympathy for the loss
of so amiable a companion and affectionate
mother.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
transmitted to the family of the deceased, that
they be recorded in our General Record, and
also furnished for publicatiou in the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT.

		ANNE BICKINGTON,	} Committee.
		NANCY N. TRACY,	}
		ELIZABETH MARRIOT,	}

	DIED, Jan. 3, 1880, at American Fork, with
acute rheuma[-]ism of the heart, and dropsy,
Ann Kelly Faragher, aged 59 years, 10 months
and 17 days. She was born at Kirkpatrick, on
the Isle of Man.					J. S. K.


134		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

	The fourth Quarterly Con. of the Morgan
Stake R. Society was held in the I. House
Morgen City Aug. 5, 1879. Meeting called
to ordor by Pres. L. Rich. After the usunl
opening exercises, the minutes of last Con-
ference were read,alsothe reports from the
different wards together with the Stake
reports. There was a good attendance from
the different wards, many of the brethren
being present from whom we received
much valuable instruction.
	The Sisters here are at all times on hand
to do what is required of them for the
building up of Zion.
	Our Statistical and Financial report for
the Quarter ending July 10, is as follows.
Statistical Teachers 39. Members 214.
Officers and Members 253. Meetings held
last Quarter 58. average attendance 114.
Woman's Exponent taken 32. Financial, on
hand, April 10,cash $67 28. property $913 34.
wheat bus. 454, ⅝. Receipts last Quarter
cash $54. 27, property $58, 20. wheat 4,00.
disbursed, to the poor, cash 1,65. property
$5,00. Temple 65, Home-Industry cash $19.
15. property $39,10. missionary cash $28,15.
property 3, 50. bnilding $12, 55. clothing
Indians $5, 00. On hand July 10th cash
$72, 60. property $904,80. wheat bus. 458,
57.lbs.

SARAH ANN RAWLE Cor. Sec'y.
LYDIA RICH, Prest.

	The third Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Societies of Sanpete Stake, was held
at Ephraim City, Nov. 17.
	The congregation was called to order by
the President Mrs. M. A. P. Hyde. The
services of singing and prayer were offered.
The Stake Report showed that, in this stake
there are 165, teachers, 1,542 members. 1,
748. total of officers and members. And
that they have donated to the poor, during
the last quarter, cash, $107, 75; property,
158,14; to emigration, 148,25; temple, cash,
52,31: property, 152,80; have on hand at
present, 3,415; bush. and 39 lbs. wheat.
After the reading of the reports, the Pres-
idents of the Primary Associations,reported
verbally their respective societies as being
in a prosperous condition. The Presidents
of the Relief Societies also reported their
several societies as being in a prosperous
condition, the members unite and are am-
bitious in working for the advancement of
these organizations, and every laudable
cause. President Hyde addressed the con-
gregation upon the subject of training
children. Urged the mothers to watch
and take care of them. Cautioned the
saints against getting into thedark. Told
them to cultivate charity. Said the Saints
had had a glorious time during conference.
President Canute Petersen, most heartily
approved of the reports given by the sisters
of their societies, and of the proceedings of
the Conference.
	Said the greatest thing for the saints to
do was to be faithful in serving the Lord
and not be found serving Satan.
	A number of sisters and brethren made
brief remarks upon different subjects.
	Singing Benediction, Adjourned until
Feb. 10, 1880.
			FANNY KOFFORD Cor. Sec,y.

	The Ladies belonging to Beaver Stake of 
Zion should have their share of credit for
the interest they manifest in performing
the various duties pertaining to their de-
partment.
	A county organization of ladies has taken

[Column 2]
place since giving in our last report. Sis-
ter Houd occupying the position of Pres-
ident. A reorganization of the Ladies
Relief Society of Beaver has also been ef-
fected. Sister Delilah Cox now being the
President with Sisters Dell and Shepherd
for Counselors.
	The Sister of Beaver visited Minersville
during the last Quarterly Conference and
reported all doing well in that vicinity.
			FLORA S. HILL. Cor. Sec'y.

	On the 22nd, of Nov. Sisters E. R. Snow
and M. I. Horne visited Lehi and held two
meetings. In the morning they gave very
good counsel and instructions to the sisters
encouraging them in their duties as wives
and mothers in Israel, exhorted them to
attend to their spiritual wellfare that they
might gain an eternal glory, admonished
the young sisters to attend their Associa-
tions and not to associate with men whose
habits were not good, spoke of the First
Branch of the Relief Society being organ-
ized under the direction, of the Prophet
Joseph Smith and what a benefit the organ
ization had proved to this people.
	The Bishop and many of the brethren
being present enjoyed it very much, and
indeed, it was a very pleasant time and
will long be remembered by the sisters of
Lehi.
	In the ofternoon the Sisters met the
children of the Primary Associations, in-
structing them and asking questions on
Church and Bible History which were
aaswered quite promptly.
	Wishing success to the EXPONENT.
		Respectfully,
			REBECCA STANDRING, Pres.,
			LIZZIE SMITH, Sec'y.

	The Conference of the Relief Society
of Wasatch Stake of Zion was held, in the Hall
at Heber City, Friday the 5th Dec. 1879.
10, A. M. Singing, Prayer. Present on
the stand President Emma Brown and
Counselors Sarah Alexander and Mary Day-
bell, and Secretary Mary Bronson, of the
Relief Society organization. Local Author-
ities, Pres. A. Hatch, Counselor T. Giles,
some Bishops and other brethren, reading
of the Statistical and Financial reports of
Relief Societies Y. L. M. I. A. and Prim-
ary Associations throughout the Stake after
which the time was occupied by the Pres-
idents of the Relief Societies and Associa-
tions in giving in a verbal report all stating
their societies in a prosperous condition.
	President Brown felt pleased to hear such
favorable reports from the several wards.
Exhorted the sisters to be diligent in at-
tending their meetings and this improve
upon the privileges which we enjoy. Bene-
diction, meeting was adjourned until 2
o'clock P. M.
	Afternoon meeting opened in the usual
manner. Presidents that did not give
their reports in the morning occupied the
Stand their remarks were very brief but
given in a very pleasing and comprehensive
manner. Sister Murdock spoke a short
time to the sisters counseling them to take
the EXPONENT, that it is expressly for the
sisters and a medium whereby they can
express their views and advocate the princi-
ples of the kingdom of God, others of the
Sisters made a few remarks on the teaching
and training of children. Said we should
be very diligent in teaching them to pray
and in speaking the truth. That we as
sisters should be very charitable, and kind
to one another. Bishop Foreman said he
felt pleased to come to our meeting and


[Column 1]
could afford to spend a day any time to at-
tend the Sisters Conference. That the Re-
lief Societies were to comfort the sick,
relieve the needy. Said we should be very
careful to have our daughters educated and
trained in the right manner for as a general
thing all noble men had noble mothers.
Others of the brethren expressed themselves
highly pleased to find the Societies in so
good a condition urging the sisters to unite
and to sustain each other. Pres. Hatch was
highly gratified in hearing the reports also
in the manner in which they were given.
Said the object of those Societies was to
sustain the Bishops, in looking after the
poor, and to work in unison with the Priest-
hood. He also felt to sustain and encour-
age home industries. Gave good advice to
the sisters urging them to unity. Said he
thought it would be well to appoint a Sister
in each Society to look after the sick and to
administer herbs according to the Doctrine 
and Covenants.
	A good spirit and feeling prevailed
throughout both meetings.
	Singing. Benediction.
	Statistical and Financial reports of the
Relief Socity of Washatch Stake of Zion for
the year ending Dec, 5th 1879. Statistical,
members enrolled 289; No. EXPONENTS 20;
Financial property receipts $1468,54; dis-
bursed to poor 631, 17; to temple 91, 65;
home industries; 528, 28, books 16, 00;
building property 688,85 property on hand
227, 14; cash on hand 17,55; wheat on hand
426, bus. 30 lbs. $425,21/2.
	MARY BRONSON, Secy’.
	AVIE M. BRONSON Ass’t. Sec’y

	Report of the Quarterly Conference of
Tooele Stake, held in the Meeting House
Grantsville Dec. 13th and 14,th 1879.
	President Mary Ann Hunter presiding.
On the Stand from S. L. City. Sisters S. M
Heywood and S. M. Kimball. Stake officer
Pres. Mary Ann Hunter Coun. Agnes
Rich, Presidents of Wards, Jeanette
De La Mere of Tooele and Jane Eastham of
Grantsville. devotional exercises the read-
ing and acceptance of the minutes of previ-
ous Conference. Ward reports were read
showing that the branches are in good con-
dition. Sister Hunter made a few remarks
and introduced Sister S. M. Kimball who
spoke upon the duties of women and their
advancement in intelligence.
	Sister Heywood spoke on the same sub-
jects and also the storing of grain home
literature and the need of sustaining the
Woman’s EXPONENT.
	Meeting adjourned until 3, o’clock
	Afternoon session was devoted to the 
Primary Association. Evening to the Y.
L. M. I. A, Sunday morning Dec. 15th to
the Sunday School. Afternoon 2 P. M. the
meeting was occupied by Sister S. M. Kim-
ball and Pres. Lyman, who both gave good
instruction Conference adjourned until the
middle of March, 1880.
	M. A. HOUSE. Sec’y.

	On the 1st of Jan, 1880, the sisters of
the Relief Society of Richfield, with some
of the leading brethren, assembled at the
house just completed by the Relief Society,
for the purpose of dedicating it. There
were present on the stand the officers of
the Relief Society of the Stake and branch,
and also Presidents A. K. Thurber and W.
H. Segmiller, of the Stake, Bishops G. W.
Bean, J. S. Horne and P. Poulsen.
	Singing and prayer. Pres. Elizabeth
Bean then arose and thanked the brethren
for their assistance rendered in the erection

[Column 2]
of the house; she realized that without
their help we could not have enjoyed the
privilege of meeting there that day.
	Elder Segmiller next addressed the con-
gregation. Said he was reminded of the
little acorn which grew, little by little, un-
til it became a great tree. Referred to the
difference of the privileges of the women
of Utah and those of Canada and other
places. Commended the diligence and in-
dustry of the R. S. in the erection of their
house. Read from Apostle Snow’s sermon,
and exhorted the mothers to cultivate the
minds of their children and prepare them
to become ambassadors of Jesus Christ,
that they might help to bear His word to
the honest in heart throughout the earth.
	Bishop Poulsen, Bishop Geo. W. Bean,
and Bishop Horne, all made excellent re-
marks on suitable subjects; congratulated
the sisters on their success in building and
furnishing their house. Many good things
were said by others of the brethren and
sisters. After singing meeting was ad-
journed. Benediction.
	Since the Stake organization of the Re-
lief Society we have visited nearly every 
settlement in the Stake, held nineteen
meetings, and completed fifteen organiza-
tions. We feel to go forward in our field
of labor, and do our utmost in the further-
ance of the cause of our Lord.
	Hoping the EXPONENT may ever be a
comfort to the sisters of Zion, and achieve
the success it merits.
	ELIZABETH BEAN, Pres.,
	CATHERINE A HUNT, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
ADDRESS TO THE YOUNG LADIES’
M. I. A. OF PROVO.

BY M. J. T.

	My young sisters—You are supposed to
meet together for the purpose of mutual
improvement, that being the name of the
organization by which you are bound. What
is the meaning of the term as applied to
this organization? It is that our young
people shall improve their minds and mor-
als, by learning that which is refining and
purifying, both in a religious and moral
point of view, that they may raise them-
selves to a standard of perfection that will
mark them as women of intelligence and
politeness. Because we are Mormons shall
we be held up by the intelligent portion of
the world as samples of low breeding and
ignorance? We may say we are God’s
chosen people, and believing in the faith
and doctrines of our religion; we despise
and look down upon the practices of the
world, which comprise so much that is dis-
graceful and degrading. Are we altogether
juitified in taking that view of the case?
In what are we superior? How many un-
derstand, or care to investigate the princi-
ples they profess to hold sacred. Setting
religion aside, the fact really is that polite-
ness and refinement indicate purity and in-
telligent intercourse, and there is much
honor and uprightness outside as well as in
Utah, while there is much ignorance and
folly within its bounds as also elsewhere.
	In our social intercourse we must needs
follow after the pattern of politeness as giv-
en by the world, unless we can erect a
higher and purer standard of our own.
Whatever position we may take, let us
learn that which is ennobling and exalting,
and cultivate that which is pure and good,
instead of taking a course that is low and
immoral.
	Rudeness of speech and action are de-
moralizing in their tendencies. Coarse or

[Column 2]
vulgar language leads to coarse and vulgar
thoughts and actions, and their influence is
low and immoral. Good manners is the
corner-stone of morality, and should be cul-
tivated, not alone in public, but in private
intercourse. Learn to respect yourselves,
and those with whom you associate will
respect you.
	Young ladies should be modest and re-
tiring, innocent and refined in their behav-
ior, deporting themselves with dignity and
grace, and they will win the esteem of
those who know them. Cultivate their
minds and fill them with intelligence, that
they may come forward in due time to as-
sist in bearing off the kingdom, for on them
will devolve a great work, and they should
be able to do it with dignity and honor.
They should be ladies in every sense of the
word. Pure, honest, virtuous and refined.
No lady will act in a rude and undignified
manner. She will never let her voice be
heard speaking or laughing loudly in public
places. In walking the streets, either by
night or day, her deportment will be quiet
and civil, never attracting attention by
noisy or rude behavior. If she meet a gen-
tlemen on the street she will not call out to
him, lest she might be mistaken in the per-
son; or if not so mistaken, her course might
be misconstrued by the gentleman, or other
parties, and she be liable to criticism. * *
She should be kind and respectful to those
older than herself. A lady is not expected
to talk slang, and profane or vulgar lan-
guage never passes her lips. It is some-
where said, “as a man thinketh so is he.”
This is equally true of woman. How are
we to know what she thinks, except by her
conversation and deportment. If that be
low and vulgar, we must judge her to be
essentially low and vulgar. If such be the
case with the mothers, what can we expect
of the children. Prepare yourselves, then,
to be mothers in Israel—the highest and
noblest position a woman can hold—to train
the minds and guide the footsteps of the
rising generation. That is woman’s mis-
sion, and she should prepare to fill it with
honor, that “her children may rise up and
call her blessed.”


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	I have often felt impressed with a great
desire to write my feelings and the thoughts
that pass through my mind while meditat-
ing on the work of God, and as I am a great
thinker, I have been led to contemplate the
glorious and most wonderful works of the
Almighty, and it causes my heart to rejoice
that I live in this day and age of the world,
and that my spirit has been reserved till
"this dispensation of the fulness of times;"
and I wish to bear my testimony to the
work of God. I know that this is the
true church and kingdom of God, and it
will break in pieces all other churches, and
will stand, no more to be thrown down.
My desire is to do good, although I feel
that I am one of the weakest of my sisters;
but I know that if we are humble and faith-
ful and prayerful before God that He will
bless us. I have often thought I would
like to cast in my mite with those that
write for the woman's paper; their words
are a great comfort to me, and I trust to all
who are interested in the Gospel.
	Let us, my sisters, live our religion at
home, and let us be ever ready to respond
to every call of those who are placed over
us. We hold our meetings every two
weeks, in the meeting house, and a good
spirit prevails amongst us. Let us keep
the Spirit of God in our hearts, having


charity for each others feelings, and the
Lord will bless us. Ever praying for the
welfare of Zion,
	ANN TATE,
Tooele, Jan. 18, 1830.

	We live In a veay eventful age of the
world when a great many wonderful things
are transpiring. We are trying through
the help of our heavenly Father and his
Holy Spirit to stand the test; for every
thing will be shaken that can be shaken.
Many of us have prayed from our childhood
“Thy will be done on earth as it is done in
heaven.” How can it be so? By keeping
all the commandments of God, blameless
before him,and honoring his holy priesthood
placed over us in these the last days.
Knowing these things let us stand firm in
the liberty of the everlasting Gospel.
	There is a test coming that will try all,
therefore let us examine ourselves and see
if we are in the faith for all nations will
fight against Zion saying "let her be de-
filed” but they know not the thoughts of
the Lord. They are blind leaders of the
blind and we are told they will both fall in-
to the ditch. Then my dear sisters let us
go forward in the cause of truth doing our
duty each day. We have many things to
do while the day lasts, “for the night
cometh when no man can work. The
Gospel of our Lord and Savior made known
by a holy angel flying through the midst of
heaven saying with a loud voice the hour
of his judgment is come has reached our
ears; ,and "Blessed are our eyes for they
see and our ears for they hear and if we are
found among those wise virgins who will
be ready to meet the Great Bridegroom
when he appears we must be on the watch
tower; otherwise we shall be cut off and
our portion will be with the hyporcrit and 
the unbeliever. We cannot do too much
for the kingdom; then let us feed the poor
do good to the fatherless and widow for
this is pure and undefiled religion, we have
a blessed opportunity to do so in many ways
and through our Relief Societies which are
found all over the Territory and in different
places in the world where the Gospel has
been preached: sisters let us be modest in
our appearance and let our garments be the
work of our own hands. Let us be neat and
tidy and set good examples before each
other and God will bless us. And let us
sustain Home-manufacture and not pattern
after the fashions of Babylon for she is going
to fall and great will be her fall. Great
and mighty changes will take place ere
long, thrones will totter and be cast down,
and nation will fight against nation and the
earth will be made desolate and few men
will be left. The nations are doomed to
destruction for God has said "come out from
among them and be ye clean that bear the
vessels of the Lord." Many things are
transpiring before our eyes. They are tak-
ing counsel against, God’s united ones and
therefore he will laugh at their calamity,
and mock when their fear cometh because
they have rejected His Gospel and killed
them that were sent unto them. And the
Lord will come out of his hiding place
and vex the nation in his sore despleasure.
	I will now conclude wishing the EXPO-
NENT all the success it deserves as an EXPO-
NENT of truth and an advocate in the cause
of Woman.	MARY ELLEN MCKAY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LETTER FROM LAIE.

	LAIE, OAHU, SANDWICH ISLANDS,
Dec. 15th, 1879.
Dear Sister Zina D. Young, * * The


Lord is still blessing us and the land. We
enjoy, as I believe, the spirit of our mission
for our whole soul and desire is to promote
good among this people. The land is being
greatly blessed with an abundance of rain;
an acknowledgement of our temporal
labors, from the Lord. The ten acres of
cane planted after you left is all that I could
wish it to be, not one thing has operated
against its growth since, from time of plant-
ing until the present, and at present it is
perfectly lovely, to look at, to me at least.
	We received those cromos for the Sunday
School children all right and numbered
each one and then let the children draw the
same number on slips of paper put into a
box. The children were perfectly delighted
with their presents and feel thankful to you
for your kindness and I take pleasure in
thanking you for them. We have the
school in very good condition at present.
I started a class in the Book of "Mormon
composed of young men and young women
and some elderly persons. Last Sunday I
had 25, in the class; we read a chapter or
two; and the class present written questions
to be answered on the following Sunday;
the questions to be confined wholy to the
chapter read. I have also a map which I
made, showing the land occupied by the
Nephites to which'we refer when necessary.
    I spoke in my other letter about the 200,
mango trees which we planted. There is
samething remarkable about those trees.
I planted the pits in a box as you remember
when I thought it was about time for them
to show signs of coming up I went and
looked but saw nothing sprouting up; with-
in 6 days from that time I looked again and
lo! behold! there were some of them seven
inches high. I have a great many orange
trees ready to transplant also about 2,000
coffee trees and I am planting seeds as fast
as I can get them.
	On the 4th inst. the Queen Kapiolani
gave us a call and dined with us, we re-
ceived a note from Her Majesty which gave
us a little time and we assembled the
Elders, Priests, Teachers and Decons. The
Relief Society dressed in white; Queen’s
Society. Young Men and Young Ladies So-
ciety. Sunday School and day School with
the Laie Bands in two lines ranging from
the large gate leading up to the house from
the main road by the sea between which
lines Her Majesty and suit passed meeting
myself Benny and Bro. Knell at the large
gate leading into our yard. The reception
seemed to please Her Majesty in fact the
whole entertainment was spoken of by Her
Majesty, after she left, in terms of praise.
She informed a foreigner the notorious Mr.
Lane that she was booked for Laie the next
tour around the Island. I should have
been pleased had you been present on that
occasion. Mrs. C. had a sumptuous dinner
for the party and we all ate together. We
also presented the Queen with “My First
Mission” by Elder George Q. Cannon, which
she accepted with many thanks and said
she would get the King to read and inter-
pert to her. 
	Kind love to your daughter Zina and
yourself in which Mrs. C. and folks join.
We crave your prayers as well as all the
faithful. I remain as ever.
	H. H. Clufl.


[Column 1]
NEW FALL STOCK.
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cuff and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods, Etc., Etc.

[Column 2]
DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	Has opened her Medical Class at her residence in the
13th Ward, two blocks and a half east of the Post Office
south side of the street, nearly opposite the Presbyterian
Church.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

NEW HOME-MADE GOODS,
For Sale at the Old Constitution Building,
Salt Lake City.
	Plain Centre Shawls, Fine Grey, Red and White Yarn,
Plain Grey Flannel, Check Waterproof, Mottled Blankets,
Shoulder Sh[-]wls, Red Twilled Flannel. Fine White [--]an-
nel. Etc. Making our Stock of Woolen Goods Com-
plete.

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.
MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes. Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes. Country dealers,
please call. Ladies’ Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special departments for Gent’s Clothing
and Carpets, Ladies and Children’s Shoes,
Dry Goods, Shawls and Domestics,
Groceries, Hardware and Stoves.

DRIED FRUITS of all CLASES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.
	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
	JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City. 97 Kimball Block.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE.
IF not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and without any noise and confu-
sion, although the rate of speed is very high. Its self-
setting and self-threading-buttle, and absence of springs
and cogs renders it both simple and durable. Be sure to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend.
Victor Sewing Machine Co., Chicago, Ill.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 &79 First South St., Salt Lake Ci


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

