VOL. 8.                       SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1879.                       No. 10.


[For the EXPONENT.
		RUTHIE'S CHILD.

And 'twas Ruthie's little, child,
That the new wife led to-day!
Something in the red lips' smile,
Something in the red-gold curls,
Perfect mouth and dreamy brow,
And the dainty, dainty way,

Woke a misty memory
Pain enfolded in my brain.
Something, near yet hid from me,
Something dear, yet lost and far,
Where, and whose, the eyes like these,
That these awake to me again?


As they passed again I turned,
That sweet face once more to see,
Something, in the cheek that burned,
Something in the tender voice,
Almost shaped the undefined,
Passed, and it had fled from me.

So I musing went my way,
Down in tangling dreams more deep.
Something, through the busy day,
Something all the lonely eve;
Seemed to sob to my own heart,
And burning eyes to wake my sleep.

Ruthie's baby!  Does she know,
That her mother's golden head
Lies cold where sunrays cannot go.
Where caresses cannot reach;
Blind, to her baby's beauty sweet,
Deaf, to her baby's music speech?

Blest heaven, no! Adown life's way,
Her wee feet go, unconscious all;
No memory-pang to cloud her day,
Nor knows of loving eyes that lean
O'er heaven's height to follow her,
Lest shadows round her way should fall.

Ruthie's baby! sweet, good bye,
I kiss you for your red lips' smile,
So like, her, bended smile and sigh.
From far off sc[-]nes, that hushed to sleep
My past, I came, and face to face,
Met loved, lost, Ruthie's little child.
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHEION.


[Column 1]	
				[For the EXPONENT.
		AUTUMN DAYS.
	Now gently comes the Autumn days,
when the harvests are gathered in and we
must begin our preparations in good ear-
nest for king winter, for his reign is an
absolute one: no jolly walks then over hill
and plain, no rambles after flowers or ber-
ries, or nuts: no long confidential talks
over love and romance by the rippling
brooklets, no moonlight love tales, out "in
the stilly night," when the doves coo, and
the nightingale sings in harmony, keeping
time to the voices of the young lovers;
no, all these things are over for a time,
and we gather around the hearthstone and
tell over old legends, and sing snatches of
old songs, and read aloud to each other
and discuss in family groups all sorts
of subjects, and ofttimes amuse our-
selves by drawing fanciful pictures  in
the bright fire,  imagining we see this
and that,  in  our  dreamy  sort  of
reverie, and if we turn to the back of the
room there we see other transient pictures
among the shadows that come dancing
from the fitful firelight on the walls.  Then
if we turn to the windows there again are
pictures on the panes; castles, towers, and
domes, trees and landscapes, drawn  as
if by magic by "Jack Frost," beautiful and
suggestive; who has not enjoyed them?

[Column 2]
	Yet a little time now winter lingers, and
we luxuriate in the cool weather, the Indian
summer, with its soft mellow sunlight, and
blue violet haze that like a drapery
of gauze folds itself around the moun-
tains and hills in  the  distance. And
throuhg it in bright glowing colors, making
a warm and brillaint outdoor picture  we
see the flaming maples and  other varieties
of trees, that autumn has crowned as 'twere
with a halo of glory.  Now we should revel
as much as possible in  the  sunbeams,  they
will brighten  our  thoughts  and  improve
our health, walk out and partake the ex-
hilarating air to brace the nerves and quick-
en the blood.
	Many of us lose the stray sunbeams and
console ourselves by thinking, only a trifle,
such a little thing, but life is made up of
trifles, and O, such beautiful trifles some
are, they make a part of life's moments
really charming; there are many sunbeams
in our lives if we will but catch their rays,
and their reflection will brighten and glow
in our hearts long after the meridian glory
of life's sunshine has departed, and the soft
evening shades draw near.
	In the autumn time there is much to be
done, both of hard and exhilarating work,
or we might term a part of it pastime.
Who is there that does not enjoy gathering
fruits and nuts, for the long winter even-
ings; and who can but remember some in-
cident connected with this labor-pastime
that is particulary pleasant in the retro-
spective.
	With what ardor the young folks enter
into these pleasant pursuits and while they
appreciate the pleasure of the work for the
prospect of the enjoyment it will afford
them become better acquanted with each
other, and many an engagement has fol-
lowed these pleasant frolicsome gatherings
in the harvest-time.  As  write old.time
memories come flooding in upon  us  just
like a great river, and interesting incidents
that would form subject matter for many a
fine, little, true, love story.
	It is very commonly remarked that the
autumn is the saddest time of the year, the
wind moans and sighs, the great trees bend
and sway themselves backward and forward
as in a tumult of grief, and the dry leaves
rustle under our feet and flit hither and
thither or pile up fantastically.  To  me
there is an inexpressible pleasure in  these
things,  a sort  of  sympathy  that  accords
well with the elements of my nature and if
I have any preference for any particular
season it is certainly the Autumn.
	There is a peculiar charm in the very
languor of the atmosphere  of  the Indian
summer, and altogether the autumn brings
home the most powerful  lessons  to  the
heart  of any of the seasons; or is it because
we really begin to appreciate the warm sun-
shine and the many out door  beauties that
please the eye and gratify the sense of sight
and smell just as we find we are to be de-
prived of them for a little season.  This is
the time too  when farmers  look over their
labors and count up the gains, and wonder
what the fruit of the harvest  will be  when
all is estimated, "What will the harvest be"
would be well for all to consider.
						AUNT EM.


[For the EXPONENT.
	HOW WE TREAT ONE ANOTHER.

	When I look around me, and see the lack
of consideration we have for each other's
feelings and circumstances, the lack of
courtesy in our habits and address towards
one another, I am led to think that we are
very far from realizing and performing our
duties as Latter-day Saints. As fathers,
we are careless and indifferent, to a certain
degree, to the welfare and comfort of our
families, and to the example we set before
them. As mothers, we are impatient, un-
wise, and apt to do many things in haste,
to repent at leisure. As sons and daughters
we are many times disrespectful, disobe-
dient and heedless in our demeanor towards
our parents. As husbands and wives, we
are, to a great extent, indifferent to the
courtesy, affection and forbearance due one
another. As friends and acquaintances we
are insincere and impolite. Some may
think this a harsh judgment, observation
will prove it a true one. I would say to
parents, be affectionate, just and impartial
towards your children, commanding, by
your example and precept, their love and
obedience; study to realize your duties,
and responsibilities, and fit and prepare
yourselves for the performance of the same.
To sons and daughters, love and respect
your parents as your best earthly friends,
repaying in love and obedience the anxiety
and care you have caused them. To hus-
bands and wives I can say nothing better
than the words of Cowper;

"The kindest and the happiest pair,
Will find occasion to forbear;
And something every day they live,
To pity and perhaps forgive."

To friends and acquaintances, be sincere,
polite and kind. To all, think, speak and
live truly, give honor to whom honor is
due, respect true manhood and womanhood
in whatever garb you may find it, and by
your example, courtesy, intelligence, sobri-
ety and integrity, show to the world at
large that a Latter-day Saint is an honor to
his country and his God.
								L. E.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	A NUMBER of ladies representing the
Woman Suffrage have issued an address
"to the people of the State of New York,"
protesting against the re-election of Gover-
nor Robison, on the ground that he vetoed
a school bill in which the right of women
to sit on school boards was recognized.

	"WOMEN MAY be members of the com-
mittee, and under this law can vote for
other people to be members. Why ought
they not to have the right, also to vote on
the question of school appropriations? and,
if on one town appropriation, why not on
all? why not, then, for all town officers?
Massachusetts, thank God, has therefore
taken the first step towards giving justice
to women! Let us never take one step
backward, but rather press right onward,
nor bate a jot of heart or hope, till the peo-
ple shall really govern Massachusetts."—
Wm. I. Bowditch.


74		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
GOOD MANNERS.

BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	Our last chapter treated upon gossip, vis-
iting cards and calls, and as we were com-
pelled to leave off before finishing our re-
marks on that particular subject we shall
now resume. "At watering-places and
country estates calls are made upon those
who arrive later. At places of summer
resort, those who own their cottages call
first upon those who rent them; and those
who rent call first upon friends arriving at
the hotels. In all these cases exceptions
should be made when there is any great
difference in the age; the younger then
calling upon the elder, if there has been a
previous acquaintance or exchange of calls."
In England the lady highest in rank makes
the first call; in America age is the prefer-
ence. It is extremely rude, when a person
asks and receives permission to bring a
friend to call, and then neglects to do so.
"In some foreign countries calls are often
returned within twenty-four hours." If
the acquaintance is not pleasant there is no
occasion to call again.
	"A young American gentleman, after
calling upon a distinguished general in
Paris (who was more than twice his own
age), and then taking a drive in the Bois
went back to his bachelor apartments to
find, to his great surprise, that his call had
been returned the same day. Had he called
upon an American citizen in his own land,
of as exalted a position, the chances are
that not even a card would have been re-
turned, for our men have not been trained
to lay much stress upon these marks of
civility, as proofs of good breeding. It is
the strict observance of these trifling form-
alities which has caused the French to be
considered PAR EXCELLENCE the most po-
lite people, although it is said they carry
their politeness no farther than the observ-
ance of hollow forms and necessary cere-
monials."
	"There are certain duties which are the
same everywhere, certain omissions which
are rudenesses in all societies, and which
no Christian politeness is sufficiently per-
fected to endure." These duties should be
taught by those who have the care of chil-
dren as carefully as possible, that they may
be a part of their every-day life.
	"Cards should be left at a house the day
after, or at least within a week after, any
entertainment at which the person leaving
cards has been invited, whether she has
been able to accept the invitation or not."
Should unavoidable circumstances prevent
this, a note of explanation should be writ-
ten. "If calls are not made as usual, in the
autumn, upon return to the city they must
be made during the first week in the new
year, and returned within a fortnight."
	"Ladies who are so remiss as to neglect
the simple rules" which relate to social life,
must after a time cease visiting each
other.
	"Abroad the wives of American diplo-
matists are sometimes complained of for
their neglect in the etiquette of calls and
cards, acceptances and regrets, and other
forms and ceremonies of life at courts,
which are held binding by those acquainted
with them. It is always set down, how-
ever, to 'American ignorance,' not to in-
difference, since such a thing as indiffer-
ence is impossible to those who have been
trained to regard their performance as hon-
orable."
	"After cards have been left once in a
season, they need not be left again, except-

[Column 2]
ing after an invitation, or upon a guest
stopping at the house."	*	*
	Countess—, in her book, "Mixing in
society," says: "To receive visitors on a
[----] day in each week is only to be justi-
fied by the exigencies of a lofty position."
	"One cannot return the call of elderly la-
dies, by leaving a card at the door; it is
considered disrespectful.—If the cards of
persons much younger are left, after hospi-
talities extended to them, one is at liberty
to make a card serve for a return visit. To
the French is due the custom of making
the delivery of a card answer for the appear-
ance of an individual. It is a great conve-
nience for elderly people and invalids who
have no daughters to make their calls for
them, as well as for ladies who have a large
visiting list and occupations which leave
them no time to make formal calls
	A call upon persons in mourning, and all
cards of condolence should be returned
with mourning cards, when the family be-
gin to make their appearance in public.
When admitted upon a call of condolence
—made within ten days after the death, if
on intimate terms with the family, or with-
in a month otherwise—care must be had
not to allude to the event first, and if
spoken of not to dwell upon the particulars,
unless it is evident that the bereaved de-
sire it. Until the cards of formal acquaint-
ances have been returned by cards of the
bereaved, it is not well to repeat the call.
	Cards of congratulation must be left in
person, or a congratulatory note, if desired,
can be made to serve instead of a call ex-
cepting upon the newly married. Calls in
person are due to them and to the parents
who have invited you to the marriage.
When there has been a reception after the
ceremony, which you have been unable to
attend but have sent cards,	*	*	your
cards need not again represent you, until
they have been returned with the new
residence announced; but a call is due to
the parents or relatives who have given
the reception. When no wedding cards
are sent you, nor the card of the bride-
groom, you cannot call without being con-
sidered intrusive."
	Calls should be made within three days
or a week after an entertainment given;
whether you have accepted the invitation
or not. "In France these calls are known
as 'les visites de digestion,' and are strictly
enforced.
	A lady should not keep a visitor waiting
without sending to inquire whether it will
inconvenience her; any delay whatever
should be apologized for. Persons calling,
if introduced into a room among people un-
known to them, should give their name
and mention upon whom the call is made.
If you meet a lady or gentleman and cannot
recollect the name, tell them so, for any
sensible person would prefer to explain
rather than be talked to without recogni-
tion.
	"Gentlemen leave their umbrellas, over-
coats and overshoes, in the hall, but take
their hats hnd canes with them into the
room. These should not be laid upon the
table, or any article of furniture, but placed
near upon the floor, if a gentleman does
not wish to keep them in his hands.
	There is much said about turning down
the corner of a card, its signification in
reality is that it was left in person, and
that the owner would have come in had the
one for whom the card was left been at
home. In some places great stress is placed
upon trifles. There are many points of eti-
quette that tend to simplify and make easier
our social intercourse, and these we should
endeavor to adopt.

[Column 3]
	There are some who can see no need of a
higher standard of manners, and ridicule
the idea, and attack those who seek to ele-
vate the society in which they move, but
this only proves their ignorance not only of
good-breeding, but the Scriptures, "Be ye
courteous," and many other passages to
which reference might be made. Formality
may be objected to, but a little more cere-
mony than we usually see would maintain
a much better feeling, and create a higher
estimate of character in many instances.


A WOMAN'S TROUBLES.

	MISTER EDITOR—I am in great truble
and I want some advise. When I was
young I was teached that'a woman's bisness
was to be agreeable, ornymental and affec-
shunit. They sed that kind of a woman
could get the smartest husbands and I gess
thats so for my husband is a very smart
man and he used to say I was as hansum as
a pitcher and stileish as a fashon plate and
lovin as a dove. Hes a grate deel smarter
than Mister Dawkins, our next door nabor,
but Missis Dawkins knows everything and 
my husband seemes to think more of talkin
to her than of lookin at me and she don't
like it because her husband sits and looks
at me instead of lookin at her while shes
talkin to my husband. At least I dont
think she does and this is part of my
truble but not the worst. Missis Dawkins
is as homely as hedge fense and dont
know this years fashions from last and I
made some remarks on her looks one day
and my husband said and said it: very ex
presive to, that folks isnt to blame for not
bein hansum but they was to blame if they
didnt know nothin because they could
learn if they wanted to. I shall think to
my dyin day he ment me and it made
me feel bad so I thot I'd try to learn some-
thin. Missis Dawkins and my husband
used to talk a grate deel about the daly
papers so I looked in them and I saw a place
that sed Notes for the fair sex and if I dont
know much I knew that was for wimmin
and kept readin it but all there was to it
was about dresses and fashions; and got
another paper and that had a column of
W-o-m-a-n-i-t-e-s that was just the same.
And I got another that had'a place in it that
sed for and about wimmin and that wasnt
much better. Once in a while they told
about some womman that had painted a
pitcher or killed a bare or shot a man or
how old some womman was who made a 
speech but mostly twas all the same. All
they had for wimmin was about clothes
and hair and such things so I begun to
think I was teached rite after all. But it
seems to me my husband aint satisfied
I saw one of your papers one day and
it sounded so kind o' sensible that I thot I'd
rite and ask you if you think as all other
editers seem to that a womman dont need
to know nothin only how to be agreeable
and affeckshunit and fix herself up nice. I
shall wait for your answer with great
angziety. I spose my spellin aint hardly
good enough for a Editur for I didnt go to
schule much, but you must excuse it and 
remember-how little I was teached.
	Yours very truly,
				JOSEPHINE JACKSON.
	Blinton, Oct. 1st, 1867.
	"Phrenological Journal."


SORROWS are like thunder clouds; in the 
distance they look black, over our heads 
hardly gray.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE HAPPY MAIDEN

A maiden sat in a leafy bower,
	And all around her were bird-notes ringing;
But a rapture that thrilled her soul with its pow'r,
	To the heart of the maiden was clinging.
And she heeded not the song of the bird,
	Nor even knew the summer was fair;
For the fountains within were deeply stirred
	By a strange, sweet music, exquisitely r[-]re;
She knew not the strength of the hidden guest,
	That kept throbbing wildly within her breast.

She sat and dreamed till the twilight came,
	And the stars shone out in the azure sky,
But her thoughts dwelt not upon wealth or fame,
	But a deep, and conscious memory
Of something just past, she could scarce define,
	That puzzled her brain, yet pleased her too,
For some one had whispered, "Wilt thou be mine"?
	And a kiss as delicio[-]s as honey-dew
Was snatched in a moment, and he was gone,
	And the maiden was left to her thoughts alone.

And she asked herself a[-]ain and again,
	The meaning of all she had seen and heard;
But only the birds and fairies[-] I ween,
	Knew aught; and they answered never a word.
But the maiden's heart throbbed fast and loud,
	Till an [-]cho came on the whispering breeze
List 'Tis love's confession, so humbly proud,
	'Twas a fitting place for such vows as these.
O love, keep singing with joy o'erladen,
In the heart of the wife, as well as the maiden.
		EMILIE
S. L. [-]ity June, 187[-]


[Column 1]
	CHARACTER.—2D.

	BY HANNAH T. KING

	Let me recall one long gathered to his
rest, but one of the planets that radiated
my orbit in the days of child and girlhood;
and in those days I coveted his approba-
tion as one of nature’s gentlemen, and one
who, by the relationship in which we stood,
must throw a powerful influence over my
future life, as the head of the family into
which I was then, by marriage, passing.
Let me describe him as best I can. Figure,
above the middle height, powerful, broad
and muscular, a form cast in a mould sel-
dom seen—must have been of peculiar and
ancient lineage, the limbs, foot and hand
denoting this—chest broad, deep and full;
hair dark, whiskers and beard tanned, up-
per part of the head bald, features large,
forehead broad rather than high; nose ex-
panding towards the end, denoting almost
reckless generosity, mouth large, lips full,
teeth good but large; the beauty of this
face lay in the expression, which was sin-
gularly good; the general expression of the
eyes calm, gentle and meditative, but they
were capable of the most complex expres-
sion, from the most happy and playful to
the most sad and melancholy, from the
most peaceful and benevolent to the most
concentrated rage, from the most repulsive
to the most attractive, from the most easy
to the most despotic—but not to elaborate
that which we might carry out through all
extremes, suffice that they were capable of
all extremes which a complicated nature
is capable of expressing; yet how bland,
how bright, how winning was that counte-
nance by nature! and on such a countenance
the extremes are ever more apparent; yet
'twas a face all liked, and to which all were
attracted. Manners affable, hospitable and
fascinating; when in a happy mood irresisti-
ble. I shall remember to my dying day
that loving, gentle encouraging look when
he approved; alas! the reverse—as though
he would annihilate one with a glance!
But time taught us a better lesson, as we
knew each other better; yes, I found that
strong man could be bound by the fetters
forged by love and kindness, to whose laws
he was ever sensitive; and when I heard

[Column 2]
from his lips the one or two words of ap-
proval, 'twas enough, for I knew his judg-
ment was never hoodwinked, and I rejoiced
that I had "stooped to conquer" and had
won the victory! Yet he was one of those
beings so surrounded by adamantine chains
of guardedness and collectedness that no
one could use an undue freedom with him.
Generous in the most extended sense of the
word, causing him sometimes to forget jus-
tice; a heart that could not resist a tale of
woe, without palpable demonstration of his
sympathy; his hand, his purse, his house
were ever open in such a case, and women
and children were irresistible objects at 
such times. I have seen that l[-]on spirit,
that passionate soul, that "strong man,"
softened so that the eyes would swim in
liquid feeling, and that voice lose a tone,
and the heart would prompt the ready hand,
and something would he done, if possible.
	Oh! what a soul was there, had training
and cultivation been exercised in early life.
Alas! he was a posthumous son, and moth-
erless as a babe, a colossal nature cast upon
grand parents of the olden time, and they
loved him, and left him to grow and vege-
tate, like any other animal, or vegetable,
and he grew up nature’s wild, untamed,
untutored son; but in such a case and such
a nature do not the virtues, as well as the
vices, strengthen? He retained a softness,
a tenderness, that was most touching and
that woke every heart to sympathize with
him in his trials and bereavements and his
disappointments. Yes, all these, with
years of sickness, were freely mingled in
his cup of life. Religion, as defined by the
world’s Lexicon, was not shown forth in
him, but there was ever on that solemn
theme a respect, a veneration, a silence
that spoke! like the cripple by the pool of
Bethesday, he seemed waiting for "the
moving of the waters," and when death
threatened, yet delayed to strike, there
was in him that mute, passive, enduring
submission that said, 'tis right, 'tis good
that I should suffer, and calmly did he en-
dure all that the Great Father saw fit to in-
flict upon him. In one of those scenes he
blessed me snd committed the orphans to
my care. How kind, how considerate, how
manly were his words, and his parental
kiss was the seal of the compact. Has he
witnessed the fulfillment as far as in me
lay? I believe so. Nearly forty years have
passed since that scene, and he has lain in
the grave a great part of that long period,
but the dead, the dead, are living still! Yes;
may he not at this very moment be bending
over me, and watching the traces of my
pen? And well do I know the expression
that face would wear; strong emotion would
be depicted upon it, as I have seen it when
tender feelings ran over in that heart.
	Let me now continue to trace the char-
acter. Temper passionate, in anger vio-
lent; yet have I seen a mighty burst of
anger quelled by as mighty an effort, and
in the briefest space he would turn round
with that bland expression, which was the
only one natural to his countenance, the
hand would be extended and all would be
harmony. There was an immense degree
of self-control and concentratedness, when
he chose to exercise it; and to those who
had tact enough to handle that nature, and
he knew them sincere, melted wax was not
more easy of impression, and that for good.
To them he gave himself, and his posses-
sions into their keeping, to be moulded to
their will. He was nature’s gentleman,
and society had assisted in polishing him,
and few could equal him in doing the hon-
ors of his house and table. His guests
were ever "<atr h6me’hhd="" happy;="" 'for4="" he="" laidlm8elffonfcto="" make="" lhem,so.r.="" ,he="" was="" a'mari="" ’of-="" few’words,="" t'do="" idvs,="" but="" htf="" hdmir-="" able="" listener,="" arid="" richly="" capable="" of="" appre-="" ciation.="" his="" nature="" was-w'afmvigorous="" "and="" sincere,="" unapproachably="" reserved;="" ’twas="" a="" s6il="" for="" ftieridship:="" -to="" -take="" deep="" yoot="" in,="" and="" if="" .fiu6h="" hen="" coveted,he="" must="" "ha've'="" been="" hriaply="" fgratified.="" he'="" ad-="" mfred;="" iespected="" b'y="" ’aupvriors,="" be-="" ioved="" by="" equals;="" ovfer="" rooked="" ;upon="" the="" poor="" man="" as="" friend.="" kind="" patent,="" 'a="" faithful="" frlerid,="" an="" exemplary="" master,="" none="" codld="" ireridei&irii="" kiridriess,="" however'="" trlylalthaf="" 'hige’riqrri="" '="" over="" forgot="" td="" aekpowiedgp.="" widowe="" before="" i="" became="" acquainted="" with="" eiiri—being="" left="" five="" children="" at="" very="" r-early-age.-="" -and-whatshall="" lsay="" more?="" that="" he,died-tpo.sopvn="" fqr-usj="" lpidheliyed="" longer,="" know="" those="" whose="" "gentle="" hands="" no="" would="" have="" loved="" to="" grasp,="" knowthose="" whom="" he.="" ihavje;="" beengju="" that,'="" ha.vo="" por-="" trayed="" him;="" yes,-="" -those="" blue="" oyes="" often="" halve="" jrun="" over'whilst="" gazing="" on="" them,="" land="" .would="" hayp="" heomso.="" prqud="" of,="" .their="" .speigtyr.would="" lavo="" softened="" and.="" improved="" him,:ifpr="" hp="" ,felt="" there="" poqld="" not="" bqkuch="" blessings="" only="" from="" thp,="" great="" giver="" of-="" all,="" good!="" ,="" ,but="" thia="" tp="" be;="" :noj;="" he,="" wag="" put,pff="" in="" the,prime="" manhood,(te="" years="" of.pre-="" paratory="" premonitions—cut="" off;="" in,a,mqnient,="" almpst,<dn.thp="" twjdkling.of="" ppr="" hat="" went,="" forth="" .thou="" shalt="" dief="" .arid,="" earthly="" laherriaclo="" hoybd!,id="" earth="" tfie="" splr-="" ft:="">at home" and happy, for he

[Column 3]
 laid himself ont to make them so. He was
a man of few words, too few, but an admir-
able listener, and richly capable of appre-
ciation. His nature was warm, vigorous
and sincere, but unapproachably reserved;
'twas a soil for friendship to take deep
root in, and if such he coveted, he must 
have been amply gratified. He was ad-
mired and respected by his superiors, be-
loved by his equals, and ever looked upon
by the poor man as his friend, A kind
parent, a faithful friend, an exemplary
master, none could render him a kindness,
however trivial, that his generous nature
ever forgot to acknowledge. He was a
widower before I became acquainted with
him—being left with five children at a very
early age. And what shall I say more? That
he died too soon for us; had he lived longer,
I know those whose gentle hands he would 
have loved to grasp, I know those to whom
he would have been all that I have por-
trayed him; yes, those deep blue eyes
would often have run over whilst gazing
on them, and he would have been so proud
of them, and their society would have
softened and improved him, for he would
have felt there could not be such blessings
only from the great Giver of all good! But
this was not to be; no, he was cut off in 
the prime of manhood, after years of pre-
paratory premonitions—cut off in a moment,
almost "in the twinkling of an eye;" the 
flat went forth thou shalt die! and that
earthly tabernacle bowed to earth, the spir-
it had fled to God who gave it—illustrat-
ing that "the race is not to the swift, nor
the battle to the strong," and teaching us,
in language trumpet-tongued that "man is
like a thing of nought, his time passeth
away as a shadow and as a flower of the 
field, so he withereth." "Be still, and 
know that I am God."


NOTES AND NEWS.

	NEVER has one person forgotten his pure,
right-educating mother. On the blue
mountains of our dim childhood, toward
which we ever turn and look, stand the
mothers who marked out to us from thence
our life.

	SIR ROWLAND Hill had a stately funeral
in Westminister Abbey the other day.
After the ceremonies were over the Abbey
was for a long time crowded with visitors,
some of them poor people, come, as a poor
little street boy said, "To see the grave of
Sir Rowland Hill, who made the first penny
postage."

	PLUCKY WOMEN.—The above is the title
of a lecture now ready to be delivered by
Prof. Sheppard, of Alleghany College. The
lecture has been heard with great approval,
and both it and the speaker are highly
praised by Francis E. Willard, who thinks
this lecture well adapted to help women to
break their own fetters. His agent is
George H. Drew, 120 Tremont street, Bos-
ton.							L. S.

	THE Annual Convention of the New York
State Woman's Suffeage Association will be
held in ASSOCIATION HALL, Poughkeepsie,
Friday, October 24th.
	Among the speakers will be Lillie Deve-
reaux Blake, Helen M. Slocum, Clemence
S. Lozier, M. D., Amanda Deyo and Matilda
Joslyn Gage.
	A convention will also be held in New
York city about Oct. 28, for the purpose of 
ratifying the nomination of those candi-
dates who have expressed themselves as
favoring Woman Suffrage.


76		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.

	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, OCT. 15, 1879.


[Column 1]
WISE WOMEN OF SCRIPTURE.

	We have lately been reading in the writings
of one of the great men of the day, that in
contemplating the lives of some men it is dif-
ficult to imagine that they ever-stood at "a
mother's knee and listened to fairy tales and
ghost stories, with which infancy in particu-
lar is so often amused." This is amusing in
itself, when one considers the part of the
mother towards her offspring, and the relation-
ship in which woman stands to the world.
Why shouldn't this great man have been born
an infant like other men? Jesus was born of a
woman, and no doubt listened to Mary's teach-
ings. But, forsooth, now a days it is hardly
possible to believe that such things ever trans-
pired in the lives of men who have risen to
eminence. However, this same writer to
whom we alluded is compelled to confess that
the distinguished man of whom he is speaking
had a mother who was not only affectionate
and tender, but also wise, and, moreover, that
she prophesied (think of it!) of "the remarka-
ble role he was to play in the nineteenth
century, although she did not live to see her
prophecy fulfilled."
	It is common to refer to the Bible to prove
that woman should be in subjection to man,
that she is not his equal in wisdom and intelli-
gence, or in executive ability. No wonder,
when from generation to generation she has
been held as goods and chattels, and her opin-
ion e n[-]idered only in domestic affairs as
worthy of consideration. But in ancient times,
according to the Bible, great deference was
paid to the opin[-]ons of women; so that we have
a precedent in Scripture to go back to for main-
taining an honorable position for woman.
	Where can we find more illustrious women
than those whose histories are recorded in the
"book of books." Deborah, who "judged Israel
forty years and there was peace in the land."
She was not only the chief executive power,
but according to the best authority she also
made some laws, and certainly, if we can be-
lieve the inspired writers, led armies to battle,
and delivered her people out of the hands of
their enemies.
	Many are the inspired prophetesses of which
the Scriptures tell us; no doubt they were very
similar in all respects to the women of this
Church at the present day, and quite as hu-
man. Did the kings and prophets ever refer to
them in important matters? They did, as will
be seen by reference to the twenty-third chap-
ter of the 11 Book of Kings, beginning at
the 8th verse; read and see for yourselves how
woman was honored by the high priest, the
scribe and others. The high priest found the
book of the law of the Lord in the Temple,
and he gave it to the scribe to read, and the

[Column 2]
scribe showed it to the king, and the king com-
manded his wise men, high priests and scribes,
to go and inquire of the Lord for him concern-
ing the words of the book. Now these wise
and great men went to a woman (what a con-
desc-nsion!), "Huldah the prophetess." (and
she dwelt in Jerusalem in the college,) and
they communed with her." Well, what did
this woman do? She said, "Thus saith the
Lord God of Israel, tell the man that sent you
to me." And she told them what should trans-
pire, and confirmed the prophecies contained
in the book, and established its validity; and
we do not hear of any one questioning the
matter, but we read that the king caused the
book to be read in a solemn assembly, before
all the men of Judah, and all the inhabitants
of Jerusalem, and the priests and the prophets
and all the people both great and small. And
thus we must look upon Huldah as authority
in this instance.
There are abundant testimonies that God
acknowledges woman as capable of thinking
and acting for herself, also that she could be
trusted with sacred messages. To whom did
Jesus first show himself after his resurrection?
To a woman—and she ran to tell his disciples.
There is no fear in regard to the recognitiou
of women in the great events that are about to
transpire in the earth; but there is a large
amount of ignorance on this subject that it
would be well to dispel, and which certainly
must give way before the rapidly increasing
and steady march of light and true progress.
							[unreadable handwriting]


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	BLANKS to fill out for R. S. Reports are now
ready at the "Deseret News Office; 5 cts each.
Orders sent from any part of the Territory will
be attended to, and blanks sent promptly by
mail.

	WE HAD intended to publish notes of the
Fair, Sunday School Union, Meeting of the
Y. M. and Y. L. M. I. A., and other things of
special interest to the Saints, but limited space
prevents; however, these will appear in our
next issue, Nov. 1.

	THE FIRST number of "The Contributor," a
new monthly magazine for the young people,
was issued the first of this month. It presents
a very nice appearance in its plain grey paper
cover, and is well filled with solid, entertaining
and instructive reading matter. We congratu-
late the editor, (our young relative) upon the
success he has met with thus far, and trust
"The Contributor" may prove a blessing to the
young people of this Territory, and that they
will not be backward in sending literary con-
tributions.

	A NEW book, the first of a series, has been
published recently at the office of the "Juve-
nile Instructor," entitled "Faith-Promoting
Series—My First Mission," by Elder George Q.
Cannon. It is well adapted to the use of Sun-
day Schools, and is an interesting, truthful
little work. Children of the Latter-day Saints
should make themselves acquainted with the
lives of the Apostles of the present day, and
of all good men. We are pleased to recom-
mend this little book to the young, and look
forward with pleasure to the time when the
schools and Sunday Schools can be furnished
with books written by the Saints.

	THE FORTY-NINTH Semi-Annual Confer-
ence, held on the 6th, 7th and 8th of this
month was a very interesting one, and was
numerously attended. The music and singing
was excellent and inspiring, and the preaching
was of a character sufficiently practical to suit

[Column 2]
the circumstances of the people, and the condi-
tion of things in general throughout the entire
Church, and yet replete with that spiritual
element that is the true inspiration and motive
power of every real Latter-day Saint. We had
the pleasure of attending every meeting while
the Conference lasted, and participated in the
good spirit and feeling that was specially mani-
fest. It is time the Latter-day Saints increased
in faith and holiness and good works, and laid
aside those frivolous, trifling things that hinder
the progress of truth and the preparation nec-
nessary in this last dispensation for the coming
of the Savior.

	MRS. SUSANNA Homestead, being desirous
of promoting the interest of home manufac-
ture in her special branch of industry, Artifi-
cial Flowers, desires us to solicit patronage for
her through the columns of the EXPONENT.
She wishes to take a class, or classes, for in-
struction in this pleasant and useful occupa-
tion. She has been practically engaged in this
work thirty years, and understands it thor-
oughy. She has stamps, colors and all kinds
of materials needed in teaching. She teaches
the French style of work, having been under
the tuition of her sister, who learned the art
of making flowers in Paris. Sister Homestead
feels sure she can give perfect satisfaction as a
teacher. It is a pursuit in which one might
delight, and one which certainly ought to be
encouraged as a home industry, for there are
thousands of dollars expended in this Territory
for this one little article, that might, with
suitable material, at a very small cost, be made
at home. Those desiring to make arrange-
ments with Mrs. Homestead for lessons, will
find her at Mrs. Reed's, on Main Street. Sign
of John W. Reed, Harness shop.

	NEW TABERNACLE.—We have been requested
to publish the following notice, for the benefit
of those who were unable to be present at Con-
ference, and if the response to the teachers is
as unanimous as the vote in the meeting, we
are assured by the committee that the work on
the Tabernacle will be prosecuted with all
possible dispatch, until completed for public
nse:

	With a view to aiding the Bishops in raising
funds for the completion of the New Taberna-
cle, at the Quarterly Conference, Sunday, Oct.
5, President Angus M. Cannon submitted the
following proposition: That every man, wo-
man and child, as members of the Church in
this Stake of Zion, shall donate the amount of
one day's labor, in the kind of pay they work
for, or the proceeds of one day's income, to be
paid within one month from date. When this
proposition was put to vote, it was unanimously
responded to by the uplifted hands of the con-
gregation present. Prest. Cannon then ex-
pressed his pleasure at witnessing such a cheer-
ful response, and desired the Bishops to have
their Teachers visit every family in their re-
spective Wards, to ascertain the kind and
amount of means to come from each, so as to
furnish the committee, within one month, the
funds necessary to hurry up the completion of
the building. The Bishops are therefore re-
quested to have this matter attended to imme-
diately, so that the building may be fully pre-
pared for use at our next Quarterly Conference.
				GEORGE GODDARD,
					In behalf of Commit'es.

	EDUCATIONAL ASSOCIATION.—The Educa-
tional Association met Saturday evening last
in the Thirteenth Ward Assembly Rooms;
the attendance was not large, in fact, the roll
showed a much larger number absent than
were present, This is not very complimentary


to the members of the association for their in-
terest in general matters pertaining to this
branch of the public good. The exercises,
though, were of more than common interest.
	The first part of the programme was an
essay on education, read by Mr. B. W. Sloan.
He advocated a free striking out in new paths
by teachers—encouraging an inventive spirit—
that new plans may be formed to impress the
lessons taught upon the minds of the students.
If a blunder is occasionally made by such a
thinker, it is more than counterbalanced by
the good which is accomplised in the aggre-
gate. The present efforts made by educators
were quite commendable, and should not be
relaxed until each schoolhouse is fitted up—
commodiously for room and elegantly in fur-
nishings. Territorial laws should be passed
which would fully cover the ground of foster-
ing and protecting school interests.
	Mr. O. F. Whitney presented his "Views,,'
which were that education should be broad
enough to cover every phase of life; the sys-
tem was far from perfect which destroyed the
physical structure to build up the mental; the
system was defective which imparted a philo-
sophical education and neglected the moral;
the system was incomplete which accomplished
never so strict training in the knowledge of
temporal matters, yet omitted the spiritual
part. Cited instances of persons who had thus
suffered by such defective teaching.
	Prof. Lewis gave a hearty endorsement to
the views and ideas presented by the speakers,
and narrated circumstances that had come un-
der his personal knowledge which would sub-
stantiate Mr. Whitney’s position.
	A vote of thanks to those gentlemen was
given.
	Prof. Riggs spoke of how he had made a
point of giving a short lecture every morning
to his scholars, taking a text or an occurrence
in life to impress a moral or good behavior les-
son, and found the students—large and small—
became quite interested in these exercises.
	Dr. Park was strongly in favor of deducing
from every lesson or exercise a “moral” which
would lead to higher and better thoughts.
	A motion prevailed that all the members of
the association be called upon, in rotation, to
take part in the exercises, those not presenting
themselves, to be dropped from the roll.
	The meeting adjourned until next Saturday
at 7 p. m., at the same place. —"Salt Lake
Herald."

	This association should receive strength and
encouragement from the women of this Terri-
tory. We have been informed there are a few
lady members who have taken an active part.
There should be more attention given to this
subject. There are many ladies here who have
been practically engaged in teaching a great
number of years, both here and in the States,
and might be a great help in giving others the
benefit of their experience, and advancing
ideas on this important subject. We hope that
at the next meeting, Saturday, Oct. 18, there
will be a number of ladies present. This is an
opportunity which should not be neglected,
and is certainly a legitimate field for woman
to work in.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		77


IN MEMORIAM.

"A lovely bud, so sweet and fair?
	Called hence by early doom,
Just sent to show how sweet a flower,
	In paradise would bloom."

	DIED, in Salt Lake City, May 16, 1879,
Franklin J. Alder, beloved son of George A.
and Lydia Dunford Alder, and grandson of
Bishop George Dunford: and Mrs. Sarah Dun-


ford. Deceased was born in this city, Oct. 8,
1877; he was one year, seven months and eight
days old. Frankie was an exceedingly inter-
esting child, possessing in a large degree those
affectional attributes that so closely entwine
themselves around the chords of the human
heart, and when called to part with the dear
ones, it tears asunder the very heart-rtrings, leav
ing an utter loneliness and desolation in the
heart and in the home.

	Lorenzo-Maeser Richards, only child of Lo-
renzo M. and Mamie Dunford Richards, died
at Ogden Sept. 18, 1879, aged two years and
thirteen days. Deceased was born in Ogden,
Sept. 5, 1877, and was the grandson of Apostle
F, D Richards and Mrs. Jane S. Richards, of
Ogden, and of Bishop George Dunford and
Mrs. Sarah Dunford of this city. Maeser was
tenderly beloved, he had endeared himself to
every heart, and his death cast a gloom over
all the household that only time and the Holy
Spirit can dispel. May our Heavenly Father,
who is full of compassion, heal up the wound-
ed hearts and give them faith and courage to
say, "Thy will, O Lord, not mine be done."


OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at Smithfield, Cache Co., Utah, Sept.
26, 1879, Sophia Fredericka Rasmiassina Han-
sen Mack, beloved wife of John F. Mack, in
her 23d year. Sister Mack was born at Bals-
bruma, Denmark, August 3d, 185[-]. She has
left a husband and three children, also a
mother, to mourn her loss. The youngest
child is only four weeks old.

	Deceased was a true Latter-day Saint, faith-
ful to the covenants she had made, a loving
wife and affectionate mother; she has also la-
bored faithfully as a teacher in the Relief So-
ciety. She died in peace, beloved by all who
knew her.						M. W.

	DIED, in Fillmore, Sept. 29, 1879, Catherine
McBride, wife of John Newton McBride, born
in Nauvoo, Hancock Co., Illinois, June 25,
1845. Deceased was the daughter of William
and Charlotte Walters Felshaw. She was a
kind and affectionate wife and mother, and
was respected by all who knew her. She leaves
a husband and five children, with numerous
relatives and friends, who deeply mourn her
loss.

Weep not for those
Who sink within the arms of death,
Ere yet the chilly winter's breath
Of sorrow o'er them blows.
But weep for those who here remain,
The mournful heritors of pain,
Condemned to see each bright joy fade,
And mark grief's melancholy shade,
Flung o'er hope's fairest rose.
				MARY A. MCBRIDE.

	DIED, in the 19[-]h Ward of this city, October
12, 1879, of bronchitis, Ann A Gheen Kimball,
wife of the late Pre[-]ident Heber C. Kimball,
and daughter of Wm. A. and Esther A. Gheen,
born in Ucland, Chester Co., Pennsplvania,
Dec. 20, 1827.

	Sister Ann was a faithful member of the
Church, true to her integrity, honorable and
upright through all her life, and patient in
affliction. She has been connected with the
Church from her youth, and has passed through
many seve[-]e trials for the Gospel's sake. She
has gone to join her companion and friends
behind the vail. "Blessed are the dead who
die in the Lord."


CORRESPONDENCE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society is in a flourishing condi-
tion, and has been a positive relief and bless-
ing to our little place. At the County Fair
held here in August, the sisters' work was well
represented, both useful and ornamental; also
a fair specimen of silk in all its stages, from
the worm to the skein.
	September 29, we were called upon to mourn
the loss of our beloved sister, Ann Highbee,
who departed this life. She was an exemplary
wife and mother, and a faithful Latter-day
Saint. She was one of the presiding officers in
our Society for some years, also Secretary for
our store. Her loss is deeply regretted by all
her relatives and friends, but we know that
her loss is our gain.
	That the Lord will bless you and strengthen
you in your good work, is the wish of your
sisters,
		ELIZABETH KLIENMAN, Pres. R. S.
		ROSELIA SPILSBURY, Sec'y.
	Toquerville, Oct. 7, 1879.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The Primary Association of St. John's,
Malad Valley, held its first Quarterly Con-
ference on the 4th of August, Sister Han-
nah James presiding. Coun. Reese, from
Malad, was present. Meeting opened at 2
o'clock p. m. After singing by the chil-
dren and prayer by Coun. Reese, there were
songs, recitations and reading by the mem-
bers. Mrs. Mary Kent, President of the
St. John's Relief Society, and many of the
members were present and gave some good
instructions to the little folks. Coun. Reese
spoke encouragingly to the children in re-
gard to reciting and general improvement.
Meeting closed by singing and benediction.
After the children were dismissed cakes
and candy were passed around and all
seemed pleased with the Conference. There
has been one quilt made by the members
of the Association and the means donated
to the Logan Temple. We have twenty-
eight members, and the Association is in a
good condition as regards improvement.
	Wishing success to your valuable paper,
we remain your sisters &c.,
				HANNAH JAMES, Pres't.
				F. M. KENT, Sec'y.


YOUNG LADIES' LITERARY WORK.

RICHFIELD, Sept. 30, 1879.

DEAR EDITOR:

	In answer to a request in the EXPONENT,
I can inform you that the young ladies of
this place have a manuscript paper read in
their meetings once a month, called "The
Literary Garland." A new editor is chosen
for each number. Very interesting and in-
structive articles are occasionally contrib-
uted. Very Respectfully,
			MARIA M. MILLER, Sec'y.

					PAYSON, Oct. 8, 1879.
DEAR EDITOR:

	The Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement
meets every Wednesday evening. We
have edited a paper in our Association four
years; its title was "The Gem," which was
afterwards changed to "The Young Ladies'
Journal." It is issued weekly, and con-
tains original articles and selections upon
religious subjects. Respectfully,
			MATTIE FAIRBANKS, Sec'y.


78		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. RERORTS.

	Relief Society report of the Salt Lake
Stake, for quarter ending Sept. 27, 1879.
Statistical: Teachers, 409; members, 1,815;
total officers and members, 2,283; meetings
held, 187; average attendance, 587; Church
papers taken, 144; WOMAN'S EXPONENT
342. Financial; On hand at last report,
cash, $587.85, property, $6,116.37; receipts
for quarter, cash, $545.97, property, $357.01;
Disbursed, to needy, cash, $377.47, proper-
ty, $217.44; emigration, cash $22.15; Tem-
ple, cash, $31.95, property, $40.86; home
industries, $185; books, $38.90; Missionary,
$12.75; building, cash, $55.25, property,
22.05; on hand at date, cash, $410.35, pro-
perty, $6,193.03; 2463 bushels of wheat,
and 1,600 lbs of flour. The following wards
not reported; 3d, 4th, 10th, East Mill Creek,
Granite and Mountain Deil; no Relief So-
ciety in the 11th Ward.
	Report of Quarterly Conference, convened
in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, Friday
morning, Sept. 26, 1879. On the stand
were President M. I. Horne, her counselors,
Mrs. E. S. Taylor and Mrs. S. M. Heywood,
and Eliza R. Snow. Zina D. Young, Anna
Ivins, B. W. Smith, P. Woodruff, E. B.
Wells, S. M. Kimball, and many other dis-
tinguished ladies. Music and singing con-
ducted by Miss Maggie Meads. Opening
prayer offered by Mrs. Zina D. Young.
	After singing, Secretary Mrs. E. Howard
read the minutes of last Conference. Re-
ports were then read from the following
wards and branches; 1st, 2d, 4th, 5th, 6th,
7th, 8th, 9th, 12th, 13th, 14th, 15th, 16th,
17th, 18th, 19th, 20th, 21st, Farmer's Sugar
House, Mill Creek, Big Cottonwood, South
Cottonwood, Union, Fort Herriman, South
Jordan, West Jordan, North Jordan, Plea-
sant Green, Draper and Brighton.
	Afternoon Session: Pres. Mrs. Ho[-]ne
called on the presidents to come to the
stand and represent their respective socie-
ties; nearly all responded. Conference ad-
journed till Saturday, 27th inst, at 2 a. m.
	Saturday morning, Sept. 27, occupied by
the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement
Associations.
	Saturday afternoon: After opening ser-
vices, reports were read from the Primary
Associations of the 2d, 10th, 11th, 12th,
13th, 17th, 19th, and 20th Wards by Miss
Maggie Freeze. Some of the presidents
of the Primaries reported verbally of the
success they are meeting with in gathering
the children together, and feel assured of
the lasting benefit that will result from
these organizations. After a few remarks
from Mrs. Horne, Elders J. E. Taylor and
A. M. Cannon addressed the congregation
in an interesting and instructive manner.
	Mrs. M. I. Horne was set apart as Presi-
dent of the Relief Societies of Salt Lake
Stake of Zion by Elder A. M. Cannon, Mrs.
Elmina S. Taylor as First Counselor by
Elder J. E. Taylor, Mrs. Sarepta M. Hey-
wood as Second Counselor by Elder A. M.
Cannon, and Mrs. Elizabeth Howard as
Secretary by Elder J. E. Taylor.
	Conference adjourned until the 21st and
22d of December, 1879, which will be the
Annual Conference, and Secretaries will
please govern themselves accordingly.
				E. HOWARD, Sec'y.

	Minuets of the quarterly Conference of
the Relief Societies of Utah Co. Held in
Provo City August 2, in the first Ward
School House. Pres't. Mrs. M. T. Smoot,
presiding, with the different officers of the
board. Meeting opened by singing and
prayer as usual. Reports were read by

[Column 2]
the Sec'y. after which a few remarks were
made by Sister M. T. Smoot commending
the sisters for their diligence, and the spirit
of unity that exists among the sisters of the
various Societies. Felt thankful to be in
the midst of tho daughters of Zion, and be
called a handmaiden of the Lord. Ex-
horted the sisters to hold each others' chara-
cters sacred and ever speak of one another
the best we can. Counseled the sisters on
home industries and various other matters;
after which the Presidents gave verbal re-
ports of the well doing of those over whom
they presided.
	After singing and prayer, meeting ad-
journed till 2 o'clock p. m.
Afternoon Session.—The Presidents who
did not give in their reports in the fore-
noon were called upon to do so. We
had a very enjoyable time and we could
truly say the Lord was in our midst.
	After the Pres'ts. had given in their ver-
bal reports a great many sisters bore their
testimonies to the truth of this work, and
spoke of the goodness of God which had
been manifested towards us as a people
and we all felt to rejoice in the name of
Israel's God.

	On account of some few of the Sisters
failing to send in their reports, our minutes
could not be forwarded sooner. Statistical
and Financial Reports were as follows. Mem-
bers, 1676 Teachers, 279 Meetings held, 66
Avarage attendance, 471, Church papers
taken, 273, Exponents, 124, Total Receipts
for two months, $579,00 Disbursements to
Poor, $133.,35, Missionary, 50, Building,
52.08, Temple, 17.00, Books, 1.95, Home
Industries, 1.00, On hand in cash, $180.00,
Property, 6,272.97, Wheat, Bushels, 1,599.
13lbs.

MRS. C. DANIELS. Sec'y.
Prove, Aug. 15, 1879.

MORONI CITY SANPETE CO.
August 20, 1979,

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society is in a flurishing con-
dition, I can truly say that we are united to
gether with kind hearts and willing hands
that are ready to help build up the king-
dom of God. We recieved a visit from our
beloved Sisters E. R. Snow and M. I. Horne
May 16. Sister Horne addressed the sisters
on the necessity of training our children, of
improving their talents, teaching them to
be punctual, and all correct principles. She
advised the young sisters to encourage
home manufacture, and advised the sisters
to store up grain for a time of need, said
we must take care of the little things for it
is the little trifies that make the whole.
She exhorted the sisters to meet often to
speak of the Gospel in these the last days
for it was the "Bread of life" to us; that
women had a great mission to perform in
this age and a work as mothers, and if they
were faithful they would be queens in the
kingdom of God.
	Sister Snow said she was happy to meet
with the Sisters and Saints of God, no
matter where. She knew it was our priv-
ilege to become sons and daughters of the
Most High through obedience to the Gospel.
We ought to have confidence in one another
and work for each others interest. She
wished the sisters to raise mulberry trees.
Said where ever the Saints dwell the land
will be blessed if they will have faith,
the curse will be taken off—it requires a
will to do the work, and where there is a
will there is a way.
	She wished all the Sisters to rise up that
wore home made hats and bonnets; a great
many of the sisters rose up with which she

[Column 3]
seemed pleased and said my young, sisters
the time is not far distant when you will
have to fill a much higher sphere than you
are filling to-day. Suffer not your affec-
tions to rest upon the vain things of Babylon
but try to have your religion at heart and
mothers teach your children the ways of
the Lord and set examples before them
worthy of imitation and teach them to be-
come self-sustaining—
	May God bless our beloved Sisters for
their good counsels and labor of love among
the daughters of Zion.
						JANE BAILEY.

			ST. GEORGE, Sept. 15, 1879.
	Fourth Quarterly Conference of the Re-
lief Society of St. George Stake, held in
St. George Tabernacle, Friday, Sept. 12,
1879. President Minerva W. Snow being
absent, Coun. Hannah H. Romney took
charge of the meeting.
	The statistical and financial reports were
read and accepted. The attendance was
not as large as usual, but a good spirit pre-
vailed, and we all felt that there was great
satisfaction in doing our duty and trying to
live the lives of Saints. Pres. McAllister
was present and encouraged the sisters to
continue in the good work.
	Statistical: Teachers, 74; members, 438;
total officers and members, 548; WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, 76. Financial: On hand at
date of last report, cash, $82.60, property,
$3,903.64; wheat, 35 5-6 bu.; flour, 23 1/2 lbs.
Receipts during the quarter; cash, $19.23;
property, $141.79; wheat 73 bu.; flour, 24 1/2
lbs. Disbursements: To the needy, in cash,
50 cts; property, $35.75; home industries,
cash, $5.25; property, $15; books, cash,
$2 50; missionary, cash, $11.40; building,
property, $10. On hand in cash, $85.33;
property, $3,976.18; wheat, 97 bu. 7 lbs.;
flour, 48lbs.
	ELIZABERH-P. BENTLEY, Cor Sec'y.


APPEAL TO WOMEN CITIZENS OF THE
UNITED STATES.

	By the unwearied efforts of a few carnest
women, we already number thirty years of
agitation on the question of woman's en-
franchisement, and fourteen years of persis-
tent petitioning Congress for National
Protection against the tyranny of state ac-
tion.
	While our demands have not yet achiev-
ed political equality, they have secured
larger opportunities for women in education,
industry, art, science literature and the
professions; more humane legislation in re-
gard to her social and civil rights, as wife,
mother, widow; and an increasing respect
for the right that includes all others—the
right to vote.
	The 40,000 votes for woman suffrage in
Michigan; the 9, 070 in Kansas; the 6,666
in Colorado; the large minority votes in
many of the State legislatures in favor of
submitting the question; 26,468 in Minne-
sota in favor of woman's voting on temper-
ance; the right to vote on the schools already
granted, and women actually voting there-
on in Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Colora-
do, California, Oregon, New Hampshire
and Massachusetts; the Minnesota legisla-
ture at its last session passing a resolution
urging Congress to submit a sixteenth
Amendment for woman suffrage. and the
enfranchisement of women in Wyoming
and Utah; all these facts show that the
best classes of men are in favor of Equal
rights for Women, while the ignorant and
especially the vicious, are bitter opponents.


[Column 1]
	The discussion in Congress on th e bill to
admit women to practice in the Supreme
Court of the United States, and its passage
in both Houses by overwhelming majorities
lead naturally to the conclusion that if a
woman may plead a case involving impor-
tant interests between man and man before
the highest judicial tribunal, it is absurd to
deny her the right to vote on the closing of
a dram-shop or the opening of a town
pump.
	The large number of petitions and appeals
from women for enfranchisement during
the Forty-Fifth Congress speak for them-
selves on the pages of the Congressional
Record, and so, too, do the Majority and
Minority Reports of "the Senate Committee
on Privileges and Elections;" and in com-
ing years the six senators who voted
against political freedom for women, will
look upon their action with regret, while
those who recognized in our demands the
constitutional rights of a United States'
citizen, though represented in a woman's
form, will congratulate themselves that in
maintaining liberty for her, they strength-
ened the bonds of Union for all.
	The Forty-Sixth Congress contains an
unusually large proportion of new repre-
sentatives, fresh from the people, ready for
the discussions of new issues, who have
already manifested a just spirit in the con-
sideration of the repeated appeals of women
citizens.
	On Tuesday, April 29th, the following
resolution was submitted to the "Committee
on Rules" in the House.
	Resolved, That a select committee of
nine members be appointed by the Speak-
er, to be called "The Committee on the Rights
of Women Citizens," whose duty it shall be
to consider and report all petitions, memo-
rials, resolutions and bills relating to the
rights of women.
	Admitting the justice of a full and fair
consideration of a question involving every
right and privilege of one-half the popula-
tion of the country, a majority of this most
important committee, Alex. H. Stephens
of Ga., James A. Garfield of Ohio, Wm. P.
Frye of Me., declared themselves in favor
of the appointment of said committee, and
Speaker Randall, Chairman, ordered it
reported to the House, where it is now
pending. A similar resolution will be
introduced in the Senate at the opening of
the regular session in December. This
proposition marks an era in our civilization.
	It is the first time in our experience as a
nation, that it has been proposed to appoint
a standing committee to look after the spec-
ial rights of woman. And yet the record of
Congress for a century is a history of na-
tional legislation on the rights of man.
	Political parties have each in turn de-
manded national protection for the measures
they deem sacred. The Missouri Com-
promise of 1820, its repeal in 1854, the Fugi-
tive Slave Act of 1850, and all the national
legislation to preserve slavery, were so many
successive steps towards a union, protecting
the right of property in man, and empower-
ing the master to hold and recover that
property everywhere under the national
flag.
	Since the war the spirit of national legis-
lation has been reversed. The Thirteenth
Amendment of 1856 abolishing slavery,
the Fourteenth of 1867, defining citizen-
ship, the Fifteenth of 1870, securing United
States citizens in their right to vote, are all
milestones on the way to mark the triumph
of a true nationality, protecting the rights of
man, as Man and Citizen. This conflict of
the century has educated our whole people
into clearer ideas of individual rights.

[Column 2]
	From the very birth of our nation, gifted
women like Abigail Adams and Lucretia
Mott, inspired by our grand principles of
government, have asked that the rights of
women, as citizens of a republic, should be
secured.
	Our unsuccessful efforts for enfranchise-
ment throngh the vote of the people in the
several states, and the speedy triumph of
theAfrican race in achieving political equal-
ity by constitutional amendments have
educated us into the broader demand for
national protection. Ever since the war,
ours has been the only Woman Suffrage
organization, and we the only class of cit-
izens who have steadily maintained the
doctrine of national supremacy in the pro-
tection of "Equal Rights for All" while
both of the political parties and even the
Supreme Court of the U nited States, have
played fast and loose with this fundamental
principle of a republican government, de-
claring that only male citizens of African
descent are protected in the right to vote
by the Constitution. Hence we demand
an additional amendment that shall speci-
fically declare woman's right to vote in
every State and Territory of the Union, all
State Constitutions or Statute Laws to the
contrary notwithstanding.

	INDIVIDUAL POLITICAL DISABILITIES.
	In considering this petition, let every
woman remember that, besides the whole-
sale amnesty act of 1872, Congress has remov
ed, since the war, the legal and political dis-
abilities of 4926 men, most of whom had
taken part in the late rebellion, while the
individual petitions for relief from political
disabilities of 300 intelligent and partri-
otic women, never convicted of crime, slum-
bered in the committees. We now ask Con-
gress to extend to us the same protection
granted to other classes; as the Constitution
declares its people to be citizens, first of the
United States, and second of the state
wherein they reside.

STATE LEGISLATURES.

	The question may arise in some minds,
"if the enfranchisement of woman should
in justice be settled by national legislation,
why petition the state legislature?" For
this reason: when a resolution in favor of a
measure passes a State Legislature the
Senator and Representatives of that state in
Congress are thereby instructed as to their
votes on that particular measure when it
comes up for action, and on the other hand
the people of a state are roused to thought
on questions under debate in their own 
legislatures. Again, the only way a dis-
franchised class can bring their wrongs
before their rulers is through petitions, and
to secure these, agitation and discussion
are necessary to attract popular considera-
tion. Hence we ask you to circulate the
state as well as the national petition in
every school district.
	If we had the power to galvanize all
women into as much zeal for their own
freedom and development as they now
manifest in fairs, temperance associations,
foreign missions, church building, decora-
tion and donation parties, our cause would
speedily triumph.
	Women are not idle, but many spend
their best forces in dress, dinners, fancy
work and social conversation, and in the
forth of literature, politics and religion,
without ever sounding the depths of those
principles on which society rests. The
wrangling of parties and sects may not
concern woman; but the vital fact of govern-
ment, the limits of state and church author-
ity should be considered within the sphere

[Column 3]
of her interests and comprehension. In-
stead of clubs for the study of Greek Art,
Heathen Mythology, and Microscopic
Investigations, Woman Suffrage Associa-
tions should be formed in every town,
county and state in the Nation. A sense
of individual freedom, the liberty to think,
and act within the same limits prescribed
to those in authority, complete equality
with those around us, give the strongest
impulses in the development of a noble
character. When we remember that our
present demand for national legislation on
woman's political status, involves the same
principle that has kept up a continual con-
flict in this nation for a century, the high-
est motives of patriotism should add zeal to
our efforts for self protection. If every
woman, however humbl[-] would bear in
mind that injustice to her is injustice to all;
that to acquiesce in the sacrifice of one in-
dividual right, is a step towards the down-
fall of the republic, a new sense of personal
dignity and responsibility would inspire all
with greater earnestness in advocating
their own enfranchisement.

ON BEHALF OF THE WOMAN SUFFRAGE
			ASSOCIATION.

ELIZABETH CADY STANTON, President,
SUSAN B. ANTHONY,
			Vice President at large.
MATILDA JOSLYN GAGE,
			Chairmam Executive Com.
SARA ANDREWS SPENCER,
                                Coresponding Secretary.
JANE H. SPOFFORD, Treasurer.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.

		       FILIAL AFFECTION.

	Not long since I promised the EXPONENT
the sequel to the story of the fanatical
woman who ran away from her husband
and nine children, an infant in the cradle;
started on horseback with her religious
teacher, to perform a journey of two hun-
dred miles. She took a horse from her
husband's stable in his absence, riding side
by side with her enthusiastic lover, was
pursued by a policeman and overtaken the
first night. The animal was captured and
returned; the loving couple left to pursue
their journey as best they could.
	Years rolled round and no intelligence
came from the deserters. The children
were grown to manhood and womanhood;
married and settled in life, wealthy and
respectable. The eldest son Colonel Doo-
little was an officer in the war of 1812. In
1825, an official letter was sent to him and
to a younger brother from a county in the
State of New York, that their mother was
a destitute widow, supported by the town
where she lived. It was a law in that state
that children should support their indigent
parents, where they had means sufficient.
The brothers were moved with compassion,
notwithstanding they had been forsaken
by that mother in childhood; they immedi-
ately sent means to bring her to their homes.
They both lived in the same dwelling,
large and convenient for two families.
The aged father lived with the youngest
brother. It was decided that the returned
wanderer should take up her abode with
the elder brother, Col. Doolittle. The
two old people though living under the
same roof were never intimate; but some-
times conversed together of bygone days,
and of the infatuation which had embit-
taed their lives, and brought sorrow to
their childrens' hearts. Her confession
was frank and impressive, she owned she
did not think of her infant till the shades


of evening began to close around her.
When I heard that, I was reminded of the
words of the Lord to His chosen people.
"Can a woman forget her suckling child,
that she should not have compassion on the
fruit of her womb! Yea, she may forget,
yet will I not forget thee?" She soon awoke
to a sense of her condition, but was too proud
to let her children even know that she
lived. The man was not unkind to her;
they lived in poverty and obscurity, till at
length he died, and left her without means
of support. The grandchildren were my
associates; I admired their humility and
condescension towards their repenatnt
relative; for although there were no marked
expressions of affection, they were always
polite and respectful, I could read in their
bearing towards her the language of their
hearts. "Her own reflection be her pun-
ishment." I once ventured to ask Col.
Doolittle what his sentiments were in re-
gard to his mother? He replied in an in-
direct way saying, with emphasis, Miss
Barnes, (that was my name,) She is my
mother!” That word expressed all that was
necessary to be said. She was a black eyed
woman, and little as I knew of phrenology
then, I judged her to be of an impulsive
temperament. No doubt she had keenly
felt the remorse that would most assuredly
arise when sober reflection presented to her
view that unfortunate inregularity in her
life! Happy was it for her, the father of her
children had taught them humane and
heavenly principles! Their’s was an exam-
ple of filial affection.
						L. B. PRATT.
	Beaver Oct. 9.


80		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE SIX AGES.

	A writer in an eastern journal has been
endeavoring to ascertain at what age men
are capable of doing their best work. His
method is to take the names of the illustri-
ous men of all times and countries, with
their ages when their greatest achieve-
ments were accomplished, and from these
to derive the average time of life at which
the important mental work of the world is
done, or the mean year of greatest produc-
tiveness. His list of great men includes
eight hundred names, and their most note-
worthy achievements number eighteen
hundred. The mean age of greatest pro-
ductivenness for all classes is found by this
method to be thirty-eight years and fifty-
two hundredths. This may be regarded as
the mental prime of life, which is attained,
if this progress gives trustworthy result,
from five to ten years earlier than has been
supposed. In the arrangement by classes,
it is found that lawyers and judges come
latest to maturity, or at least to a recogni-
tion of their power, the average age of
greatest productiveness with them being
forty five years and a little over. Professors
and educators come next, who have done
their best work at nearly forty-three years.
Then follow statesmen, divines, authors,
phyisicians, philosophers, artists and orators
whose age of greatest productiveness is
from their thirty-eight to forty years.
Next come commanders, scientists refor-
mers and philanthropists, whose chief work
is accomplished at thirty-six to thirty-
seven years; inventors, musicians and
travelers, who are at their best at from
thirty-one to thirty-five years, and actors
make their highest efforts earlier than any
other class, about the age of twenty-nine
years. By the use of the same materials,
the writer classifies the decades of life ac-
cording to their value to the world as


shown in the work accomplished by these
eight hundred eminent men. He arranges
the decades as follows:
	The golden decade is between 30 and 40;
the silver decade is between 40 and 50;
the brazen decade is between 20 and 30;
the iron decade is between 50 and 60; the
tin decade is between 60 and 70; the
wooden decade is between 70 and 80.


No man is over good for anything uutil he
has found two things—first, somthing to
love, and second somthing to reverence.

	The young lady whose society is-worth
having must be sought. She who endeavors
to thrust her company upon young gentle-
man is always avoided by the better classes,
both men and women.


Remedy for Croup.—One fourth of a teaspoon-
fnl of syrup of ipecac, and a pinch of pulverized
alum once in an hour or two according to the
severity of the disease. This is a dose for a child
from four to ten years of age.


[Column 1]
NEW GOODS.
HOME-MADE for the fal of 1879 Young ladies Single
Shawls, Ladies [-]ingle and Double Shaw[--], New
Styles in Stripe and Check Dress Flannels, New Style
Check Waterproofs, N[-]w Styles in Linseys. Fine White
Yarn 2 and 3 ply for Ladies and Baby [--]ockings, Grey
and Whi[-]e Blanke[-]s, P[-]ain Whi[-]e, Red and B[-]ue Flannels.
Twilled Red, White a d G[-]ey F[-]annel[-], Wool B[-]tting,
Snell's [-]o[-]p, Brooms, Trunks, Brushes, and other Home
Made Goods.		MINNIE HORNE, Clerk,
			O[-]d Cons i[-]ution Building, Salt Lake City.

DON'T USE TOO MUCH PEORIA STARCH AT A TIME.
WHITEST! STRONGEST! BEST!
AS LESS IS REQUIRED THAN OF MOST OTHER KINDS.
PEORIA
SUPERB GLOSS
STARCH
FOR THE LAUNDRY
PEORIA
IMPROVED
CORN STARCH
FOR THE TABLE.
For Sale by Utah Wholesale and Re-
tail Grocers.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE.
IF not you should do so at [-]nce, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and w thont any noise a[-]d confu-
sion, although the rate of speed is very high Its self-
setting and self-threading huttle, and absence of springs
and cogs renders it both simple and durable. Be sure to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend.
Victor Sewing Machine Co., Chicago, Ill.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

NEW SPRING STOCK.
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

[Column 2]
DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes;)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responped to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	Has opened her Medical Class at her residence in the
13th Ward, two blocks and a half east of the Post Office
south side of the street, nearly opposite the Presbyterian
Church.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

TO THE LADIES!
HEALTH Corsets, Shoulder Braces, Skirt Supporters,
Back Braces, and Abdominal Supporters, for sale or
made to order, by P. E. HARPER, First South Street,
nearly opposite Theatre.
	Mrs. ZINA D. YOUNG, agent for this Territory.
	Physicians and Ladies, call and examine.

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes Country dealers,
please call Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special departments for Gent's Clothing
and Carpets, Ladies and Children's Shoes,
Dry Goods, Shawls and Domestics,
Groceries, Hardware and Stoves.

DRIED FRUITS of all CLASES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.
	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
Salt Lake City.					97 Kimball Block.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

H. DINWOODEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers Wall Paper
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

