VOL. 8.				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1880.						No. 24.


BIRTHDAY WISH  FOR  MRS.  B. W.
			SMITH.

MY DEAR SISTER BATHSHEBA--
								Long may you live,
And year by year blessings on blessings receive;
May prosperity's genius most graciously smile,
And in crowning your efforts diminish your toll.

In the grand distribution of th' good things of earth,
May you get your proportion, to cheer your home-hearth;
Ever here claim the gifts of the angel of health,
And secure for hereafter Eternity's wealth.

May  such  choice Birthday socials, like Hermon's bright
[---] dew.
With frequency shed their  refreshings on you;
And that Comforter, beacon of heavenly light,
Be your constant companion, by day and night.

As the mighty designs of Jehovah roll on,
May you hold sweet  communion with those who have
	gone;
And the vail, now between us, grow thin to your view,
And Eternity's visions be opened to you.

Though you've sought to do much, may you do even more
In the great work of God than you've done heretofore--
Doing good here and there, and wherever you go.
Please accept this--a Wish from
						ELIZA R. SNOW [SMITH].
	Lion House, Salt Lake City, May 3, 1880.


[Column 1]

BIGOTRY.

	Too short and euphonious a name for the
hateful, bitter sentiment it represents, but
which is often mistaken for a "stern sense
of duty." Ever since one religion, or man-
ner of worship, has had the pre-dominance
over another, so long has bigotry had a
place in the human heart. Indeed, but lit-
tle humanity is left in that soul in which
bigotry has a hold. I trace it back, even as
far as Cain; the hateful feeling which led
him to shed the innocent blood of his broth-
er, was bigotry in embryo. Although he
was not willing to live a righteous life, he
was not willing that his brother should en-
joy the peace and blessings consequent to
such a life.
	As patriarchial families grew up into
tribes, and tribes into nations, bigotry grew
rank and odious in the hearts of men, and
with its twin sister, hypocrisy, brought
about the long and renowned Holy War.
Deceived and misled by it, Saul took an ac-
tive part in the persecution of the disciples
of Christ.
	Bigotry has ever been a powerful weapon
in the hands of the evil one, to decimate
the numbers of the righteous. As I read
in the Revelations about the righteous spir-
its under the throne of God, crying: "How
long, O Lord, Holy and True, dost thou not
judge, and avenge our blood on them who
dwell on the earth?" etc., I think of the
thousands of truly good and heroic ones
who were tortured, burnt at the Stake, or
otherwise slain through the Inquisition in
Rome, in Spain and in France, which abomi-
nable institution was founded and fed by
bigotry. Later on, the Waldenses, or disci-
ples of Waldo, were tortured and slain, in
the valleys of the Alps, by a few zealot
princes and counts and their superstitious
tenantry, incited by a bigoted priestcraft.
Plus IX excommunicated Victor Emmanuel,
late King of Italy, (then only King of Pied-
mont and Siberia) for granting to his people
liberty of conscience and liberty of the
press. Nor were the Catholics alone warped

[Column 2]

by a bigoted spirit; instance: Elizabeth
of England persecuting the Catholics; the
Protestant colonies of America persecuting
the harmless Quakers, and last, but not
least, the Christian (?) denominations in the
States of Ohio,Missouri and Illinois driving,
robbing and murdering a harmless and
law-abiding people, for daring to say that
Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God.
	By their fruits shall ye know them! Many
who cry down despotism nurse it in their
very bosoms, in the shape of a bigoted be-
lief that they are right, and that whoever
does not see and believe as they do is posi-
tively wrong, and should be, morally and
socially, put under foot. Many, under my
observation, have estranged themselves
from good and warm friends, because the
latter would not discountenance some per-
son, or persons, whose views did not chime
with their own. Such things within the
pale of Christianity! Let us shake them
off, and blow them to the four winds. Not
with a narrow and bigoted mind shall we
ever enter the presence of a just and merci-
ful God, who has given every human being
his or her agency, and who sendeth rain
and sunshine upon the wicked as well as
the righteous, and wait for a day of retri-
bution.	E. C. E. F.
	Morgan City, May 5, 1880.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THANKS to Mrs. Sarah W. Sears, Eleventh
Ward, for a tasteful bouquet of sweet fresh
violets and bright-eyed pansies, to grace
our office table early in the season.
 SISTERS E. R. Snow Smith, B. W. Smith,
Zina D. Young and M. I. Horne, also Bro.
Daniel Graves, attended a special meeting
of the sisters at Mill Creek and organized a
branch silk association. The prospects are
favorable [now for the rapid growth and
permanency of this industrial enterprise.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt’s class in obstetrics
is now opened.  Several ladies from the
country have arrived, and it is to be hoped
others will come. There is a great need of
thorough preparation for this department
of the medical profession, and Dr. Pratt’s
terms are reasonable, which will suit the
circumstances of the sisters.
	The New York Senate has adopted a con-
current resolution providing for the amend-
ment to the Constitution, which will give
women the suffrage, or equal political
rights.
	If New York gives woman political free-
dom it will have great influence  in other
states and Territories for the Empire State
is one of the most powerful in the Union.
 THE women who advocate equal political
rights mean to have some voice in the var-
ious Conventions held in the interest of the
next president, and to insist upon the 16th,
amendment to the Constitution. We have
received letters from some of the officers of
the National Woman Suffrage Association
urging our attending the Convention to be
held in Indianapolis May 26 and 27, also
the Presidential Convention in Chicago in
June. One  lady  says "I trust  you will


make arrangements to  attend the Republi-
can,Greenback and Democratic Conventions
I have applied for seats for 76  women  dele-
gates  of  the  various State  and  National
Woman  Suffrage  Associations.  You were
elected at our  January Convention  one of
the delegates of N. W S. A.”
 This we certainly consider a very  flatter-
ing  compliment.  In  the  same  letter  she
says; “Remember me kindly  to the  many
worthy women who are working  out social
problems in your midst.  I shall be glad to
meet tnem when I come to Utah for I intend
to visit your people  before I die.”
 “I read the EXPONENT regularly or rather
irregularly for I carry it in my hand or pocket
waiting for a moment to gmance it through.
It is always  good  and  interesting.  What
excellent  work  your women do.” These
ladles are  working nobly  for the elevation
of their sex.  They are women of intellig-
ence; philanthropic and  above all  they  are
terribly in earnest.  God speed them, their
cause is just  and  should prevail.  Earnest-
ness is the passport to success.


STRIVE  TO BELIEVE. 

  It is the one, almost  only, struggle  of  re-
ligious  life  to believe.  In  spite  of all the
seeming  cruelties  of  this  life, in spite of
the clouded mystery in which God has en-
shrouded himself, and in spite of pain, and 
the  stern  aspect  of  human  life,  and the
gathering of  thicker  darkness  and  more
solemn silence  round  the soul  as  life goes
on, simply to believe that God is love and
to hold fast to that as a man holds on  to a
rock with a desperate  grip, when  the  salt
surf and the driving waves sweep over him
and take the breath away- I say that is the 
one fight of Christian life, compared with
which all else  is  easy.  When we believe
that, human affections are easy.  It is easy
to be generous, and tolerant, and  benevo-
lent, when we are sure of the heart of God,
and when the little love of this life, and its
coldness and its unreturned  affections, are
more than made  up to us  by the  certainty
that  our Father's love  is  ours.  But when
we lose sight of that, though but a moment,
the heart  sours  and  mankind  seems  no
longer  worth  the  loving, and  wrongs are
magnified, and  injuries cannot be forgiven,
and life drags on, a mere death in life. A
man may doubt  anything  and  everything
earthly  and  human, and  still  be blessed,
provided only he holds fast to that convic-
tion,  that sublime faith in God's love.  Let
all drift from  him like  sea-weed on life's 
ocean, so long as he reposes  on the assur-
ance  of the  eternal  charity,  his  spirit at
least cannot  drift away  from the "Rock of 
Ages."  There  are  moments,  I  humbly
think, when  we  understand  these  trium-
phant words  of St. Paul, "Let God be true,
 but every man a liar."
					IDA DOTSON.
    Minersville, May 7, 1880.


WE should give as we receive,cheerfully,
quickly, and without hesitation; for there
is no grace in a benefit that sticks to the
fingers.—Seneca.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

A MEMORIAL OF ALICE AND PHOEBE
CAREY

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	There is a fine lesson to be learned from
the lives of these two celebrated women,
the sweetest female poets of America, as
well as some prose works of merit. They
were very remarkable women, and came of
a remarkable family. Their native home
was in the Miami Valley—eight miles north
of Cincinnati, Ohio—in a"low, small house,"
situated on a small farm; Alice first saw the 
light on the 26th day of April, 1820, and
Phoebe, her life-long companion, on Septem-
ber 4, 1824. Their parents were uncommon
characters, and were descended from an
English ancestor, Sir Robert Carey, in the
reign of Henry the Fifth of England. They
were very proud of their descent, especially
Phoebe, who had a ring made bearing their 
coat of arms,which was taken off her finger
after death. Their full coat of arms, richly
emblazoned and framed, hung in their li-
brary after they had a home of their own.
	Their father bore the same name as this
renowned cavalier, and was a man of su-
perior intelligence, of sound principles, and
a blameless life. He was especially fond of
reading romances and poetry, but early
poverty and hard pioneer life left him no
time for acquiring more than the merest
rudiments of a common education; he had
a want of confidence in his own judgment,
which was inherited in some measure by
his offspring. He was a loving father, sang
his children to sleep with holy hymns, and
habitually went about his work repeating
the grand old Hebrew poets and the sweet
and precious promises of the New Testa-
ment of our Lord. For him the common
life of a farmer was idealized into poetry;
springtime and harvest were ever-recurring
miracles, and dumb animals became com-
panionable; horses and cattle would follow
him, sure to receive a kind word, a gentle
pat, a few grains of corn, or a lump of salt
or sugar. In his youth he must have been
handsome—six feet in height, well propor-
tioned with black, curling hair, bright
brown eyes, slightly aquiline nose, and 
beautiful teeth. His daughter Alice most
resembled him of any of his children, and 
they ever loved to be together, seeming
entirely congenial to each other. In her
was reproduced not only his form and fea-
tures, but his mental, moral and emotional
nature.
	The wife of this man, and the mother of 
his children, was blue eyed and beautiful.
Alice said: "My mother was a woman of
superior intelligence, and of good, well-
ordered life; in my memory she stands
apart from all others—wiser, purer, doing
more than any other woman." Phoebe said
of her, "She was the wonder of my child-
hood; she is no less a wonder as I recall
her now. How she did so much work, and 
yet did it so well! How she reared care-
fully and governed wisely so large a family
of children, and yet found time to develop
by thought and reading a mind of unusual
strength and clearness, is still a mystery to
me." She was fond of history, politics,
moral essays, biographies, and works of re-
ligious controversy. When we remember
that this woman was the mother of nine
children, who performed the labors of her
household with her own hands, that she
lived in a rural district, aloof from the
larger interests and busy thoroughfares of
men, we can form a truer estimate of the
superiority of her mind, and the strengthof her character,; her children truly "rose

[Column 2]

up and called her blessed; her husband also,
and he praised her.
	Such, in brief, were the parents of Alice
and Phoebe Carey; you can trace their char-
acters in that of their two daughters in a
remarkable degree. As I said, they were a
gifted family. A daughter, Rhoda, who
died young, Alice long and bitterly
mourned, and always said she was the most
talented of any of the family.
	For the first fourteen years of the lives
of these two girls, they were little drudges,
working early and late to help procure an
existence and "keep out of debt." Alice
said: "We hungered and thirsted for knowl-
edge, but there were not a dozen books in
the house, nor a library within reach; there
was no chance to learn but in a little district
school down the road, and I never went to
any other." Think of what self helpers
they must have been to become the extraor-
dinary writers and workers they were in
after life!
	When Alice was fifteen this beloved and
venerated mother died, their lives then be-
came one of loneliness and sorrow, all am-
bition for a time seemed to be buried in
the grave of this lamented mother and their
beloved sister Rhoda. Their walks were
now solitary, generally terminating at the 
little family burial place on a green hill that
rose in sight of their home. Alice's first
published poem was entitled "The Child of
Sorrow," she being then in her eighteenth
year. One of the severest criticisms passed
on her early poems was, that they were full
of graves. Dear, mourning girl! How
could she escape from writing songs of sor-
row, when they were written on the grave
of her mother and sister? How severe and
unrighteous is the judgment of a cold, in-
sensate world!
	After a time Alice began to publish, and
without hope of a present reward was send-
ing her verses through the land astray, they
chiefly finding shelter in the periodicals
and journals of the Universalist Church, in
which the family was reared. The "La-
dies' Repository" of Cincinnati, and "Gra-
ham's Magazine," were among the leading
ones that accepted and published her earlier
verses. From Dr. Bailey, of the "Era,"
she received the first ten dollars as a gratu-
ity, when she had written for him for some
months, the first money ever earned by her
pen! Afterwards she had a small stipulated
sum for contributions to his paper.
	Time rolled on, and Alice wrote and pub-
lished her "Pictures of Memory," which
Edgar Allen Poe pronounced the most mu-
sically perfect lyrics in the English lan-
guage. Now the names of Alice and Phoebe
Carey began to appear in the corners of
newspapers and magazines, with songs that
followed and had fixed the attention and
won the affection of some of the best hearts
and minds in the land, among them Whit-
tier had written the sisters words of appre-
ciation and encouragement.
	In 1849, the editor of "The Tribune,"
Horace Greeley, visited them in their own
home, and thus speaks of the interview:
"I found them, on my first visit to Cincin-
nati early in the summer of '49, and the
afternoon spent in their tidy cottage on
"Walnut Hills," seven miles out of the
city, in the company of congenial spirits,
since departed, is among the greenest oasis
in my recollection of scenes and events
long past."
	In  November, 1850, Alice Carey, broken
in health, sad in spirit, with little money,
but with a will that nothing could daunt,
an energy and patience which no pain or
sorrow could overcome, started alone to
seek her fortune in the city of New York.

[Column 3]

Referring to this before her death,she said:
"Ignorance stood  me  in the stead of cour-
age; had  I  known the world, I dare not
have done it."
	To be continued.


A SCHOOL ENTERTAINMENT.

   The people of Gunnison had  the pleasure
of witnessing an  entertainment,  given by
the school children, Thursday evening April
22nd, under the directorship of their teach-
er, Miss Lizzie  Stevenson.  The Choruses
by the school, "Welcome to all,"  "Always
cheerful," "I'll think of these things," etc.;
the duet  "Joyfully sing," by Sarah Metcalf
and Violet  Gledhill;  the  solos  "Kiss her
rosy cheeks for me" and now I lay me down
to sleep," by Adelaide  Lisonbee and  Eliza
Knighton;  the  recitations,  "A  visit from
St. Nicholas,"  "What  we  shall  do in the
different kinds  of  weather"  and  "The
Donkey's Lesson," by Hattie Kearnes, Niels
Hanson and  Austin W.  Kearnes;  the  Tab-
leau  "The  Evening  Prayer;" a  recitation
"We are six little girls" by Emma Metcalf,
Amanda Lisonbee,  Annie  Jenson,  Annie
Kearnes, Mary Bardsley and Hannah Han-
son;  a charade "The  Masterpiece" by Aug-
usta Sw[-]lberg, Sarah Metcalf, August Swal-
berg and George Pickett;  interspersed with
organ solos  by  Master  Albert Tallstrup,
were all such gems and  rendered so  pleas-
antly, that it would be difficult to say which
was the gem of gems.  It was a feast to the
hearts as well as the minds of those present.
Their delighted  countenances,  told  how
highly  it  was  appreciated.  Parents and
friends of the  children, were surprised, de-
lighted;  proud of their children, and grate-
ful  to  Miss Stevenson, for bringing along
and encouraged, to shine and give joy.
   Miss Lizzie Stevens is loudly  and  deser-
vedly praised for her perseverance in train-
ing the pupils.  She is as energetic  as  she
is amiable, and as a teacher gives great sat-
isfaction.  She is at present on a visit to her
home in Salt Lake  City.  We  wish  her a
pleasant time, and a safe return.
						     H.M.


OTERO, who attempted the assassination
of King Alphonso, was executed at Madrid

 	WHEN the custom of banging the hair
goes out, how many grown-up women will
look at the photographs taken in their teens
and wonder how they could have been such
idiots! And how many of those photo-
graphs will be hidden away, mutilated and
otherwise banged.

	WITHOUT earnestness no man is ever
great, or does really great things. He may
be the cleverest of men. He may be brili-
ant, entertaining, popular; but he will want
weight. No soul-moving picture was ever
painted that had not in it the depth of shad-
ow,—Peter Bayne.


A $1,000 GUARANTEE.—Warner's Safe
Kidney and Liver Cure will positively cure
Bright's Disease and Diabetes; and it is
guaranteed that it will also cure 99 per cent.
of all other kidney diseases, 95 per cent. of
all liver diseases, and will help in every
case without injury to the system, when
taken according to directions, and the sum
of $1,000 will be paid to any person who 
can prove that it has failed to do this.—H.
H. Warner & Co.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LONGING.

I've often wished that I might lift the covering
  Of yonder shadowy home where  loved ones rest,
Freed from the toil and care around me hovering,
   I'sad and lone, they mingling with the blest.

If I could live for more than fifty years,
  Hoping and waiting for my hour to come,
No voice from them could reach my mortal ears,
  No word to cheer me on my journey home.

Though years have past since in the grave we laid them
  Their calm, sweet features yet I plainly see;
The grave's dark depths my mind will often fathom,
  And bring them back with loving thought to me.

If I could see their spirit-home surroundings,
  If but one glimpse-for I would like  to know,
If when he went the Father gathered round him
 The little ones we buried long ago.

But if  I try to trace, with gentle fancy,
  The spirit-life returned to realms above,
My mind refuses in the search to aid me--
  I can do nought but trust them to His love.

"God knoweth best!"  If I could be permitted
  To see them in their home of love and light.
With this dark world I might not be contented.
  The brightness there might dim my  earthly sight.
							      E.A. BENNION.


MOTHER.

  Oh, that heaven-born name!  That blessed
creature!  She to whom we all owe our ex-
istence.  The one  who  of  all on earth is
most tender  and  affectionate.  Do  we  ap-
preciate her?  No, not  fully, until  we are
bereft of her, and left to feel the pangs of 
an orphan's  heart.  'Tis  then  we realize
that home bereft of mother is a most lonely
and desolate  place.  The  memory of that
dear one then comes vividly to  our minds,
and we behold the many testimonials of her
love and devotion, and our conduct towards
her then presents itself to view.  We plainly
behold the path that we have trod, and we
sincerely reflect upon our past deeds.  If we
have in any way assisted her in her daily
labor, given  her a comforting  word  in an
hour of  affliction, or caused one ray of sun-
shine to  gladden  her  pathway  or lighten
her burdens, it will cause our hearts to  re-
joice and we will feel, though mother has
left us and our mortal  eyes  cannot  behold
her, yet  she  may be lingering  near  us, or
pleading with our Father for the protection
of her offspring whom  she  has left in this
world of trials.  But on the  other  hand, if 
we  have been disobedient, spoken harshly,
or  caused a load  of  sorrow to overshadow
her brow, it will bring grief to our hearts;
and, though  she may  have forgiven  us all
those little  imperfections, yet  they cannot
be erased from our memories.
  Oh, let  us  who  have  mothers spared us,
take warning and march firmly by her side
through the wearisome  journey of life, and
chase from her brow the shadows which are
liabla to gather there, for we are her hope
and pride, the heighth of her ambition and
the  main  object  of  her  creation;  and in
years to come will find her the truest friend
on earth.  She  is  true from  the  time we
breathe the  first  breath,  through  all  the
changes  of  life; she  carefully  watches us
through infancy and youth, and tries to in-
delibly print  upon our minds the  stamp of
virtue, and to direct  us in the narrow path,
until finally,  when  time  rolls  round, she
sees her child kneel  at  the  altar, her eyes
beaming with  joy and her  heart filled with
bright hopes for the future, just as she had
formerly done,  to  unite  her  destiny with
a companion for life.  She looks calmly on,
yet is  fervently  praying for  the prosperity
of the wedded pair.  She is still with us in
heart, shares alike  our  joys and sorrows all
through  life, until we  are finally embraced
in the cold arms  of  death, should  she  sur-
vive us, and  then  the ties  of  affection are
not severed- she still looks forward and has
hope to embrace her dear ones in eternity,
and again  have  the family ties re-united.
Yes, mother  is  one  of  our  truest earthly
friends; 'tis she who  helps  to  relieve our
many wants, stands by our bedside in sick-
ness, and when all the earth beside is deaf,
she listens  attentively to  all our griefs and
woes;  she  may be apparently indifferent at
times, but  she is always first to rescue her
child from danger;  she will  even  stand be-
tween us and death, and though all earthly
friends have  faltered, she is still  the  same
true friend, and is ever willing to point out
to the  erring  child the  way  in  which it
should walk. She will plead for the victim,
even at the scafold, though she may know
his  crimes deserve death.  Yet  there  is a
tie of  affection that binds him to her, and a
feeling of love that she cannot suppress.
 O children, let the  tendrils  of  thy love
and  affection  twine  round  thy  mother's 
heart, that she may have strength and hope
and  something  tangible  to  stimulate  her
through all the trials she may  be called up-
on to pass through.

	Oh, let us esteem that blessed gem,
More precious than any diadem;
An humble rustic, or lady fair--
The motherly love alike is there.
							        LOREN. 
Monroe, May, 1880.


LIFE.

	Life is a terraced mountain—the only
communication between the walks thereof
is steep and of difficult ascent. He who
would walk in a higher plane must climb
the dividing steep hillside by indefatigable
and persevering application of both mind
and body to overcome, inch by inch, the re-
sisting obstacles, until his feet are planted
on the coveted plane above, only to see an-
other just above him, but not quite so diffi-
cult of attainment. Each terrace is wider,
more beautiful and conducive to happiness,
and above all nearer to heaven. The vir-
tues cling closer to you, while the evil at-
tributes wither for the want of native nour-
ishment, and all live nearer the purer law—
yes, above the law; for such is a law of jus-
tice, righteousness, peace and honor unto
himself. We wearily, but not fainting,
keep climbing, gaining new strength, new
life, light and wisdom at each victorious
ascent, until at last, with the flag of Excel-
sior clasped with the grip of steel, our
hearts burning with joy and gladness, our
eyes flashing with the pride of a well-earned
victory, we behold the cap-stone, a mansion
of indescribable beauty and glory, sur-
rounded with the last terrace, adorned with
all the beautiful given the earth as a halo
of life, light and loveliness, which only the
purifying power of "integrity unto the end"
enables one to endure the proximity. But
nobly-earned honors refine and strengthen
until the dauntless one approaches the Por-
tals of Bliss and lightly touches the door-
bell of pure diamond, glowing like living
fire, and the door opens and one arrayed in
white, transfixingly beautiful, the tongue is
dumb, no more can be told. She smiles,
and with a sweetness of voice of ten thou-
sand silver bells, says; "Come! I welcome
you home." The breath is suspended with
awe and reverence,and bending low he steps
within the portal—the vision of loveliness
beyond; he turned to tell the glad tidings,
but the angel placed her finger on her lips,
every lineament of which is grace and
mercy, and his lips are sealed.
	But follow up this arduous path, fraught


with so many trials, yet crowned with so
much good, and faint not, nor grow, weary
and die on one of the lower terraces.
							IDYL IVON.


CORRESPONDENCE.

SMITHFIELD, April 26, 1880.

DEAR EDITOR:—We must send you a few
items from this part of the world some-
times, to let you know that we are alive.
For some reason not known to us we are
left out in the cold, and have no Stake or-
ganization. I believe all the Relief Socie-
ties throughout the Territory are organized
into Stakes except Cache Valley. What
we have done, or what we have not done,
to be served so is past our comprehension.
The Relief Society of this place is trying to
keep pace with our sister societies in doing
good. The past winter has been a severe
one, and it has taxed our President, Sister
Adeline Barber, to the uttermost to find out
and care for those who might otherwise
suffer; and though we come out of the con-
test with a depleted treasury, I believe
none have suffered from want. 
	On the 29th of March, the sisters of the
Relief Society gave a farewell dinner to
our honored Bishop, who has been called on
a mission to Great Britain. He has been a
friend and counselor to the Relief Society
ever since its organization, and we felt it
was nothing but right to show our respect
to one so tried and true. A committee was
chosen, who got up the following resolu-
tions:
	"Beloved and Honored Bishop—We, the
sisters of the Relief Society, wish to tender
unto you the gratitude of our hearts for the
brotherly care with which you have watched
over us as a Relief Society, and for the
good counsel you have given us. Inasmuch
as you have been called to go on a mission
to the nations of the earth, we unitedly re-
solve to pay this tribute of respect to you.
	Resolved, That, whereas you are going
to preach the Gospel in a foreign land, we
will unitedly sustain you with our faith and
prayers.
	Resolved, That in your absence we will
be diligent in obeying your counsels, in
looking after the poor, caring for the sick
and administering comfort wherever it is 
needed.
	Resolved, We realize the loss we shall
sustain in your absence, but still we say,
Go, thou Herald of Salvation, at thy Mas-
ter's call! be of good cheer, He that has
watched over thee in the past will guard
thee in the future. Search out the humble
and honest in heart, and bring them to Zion.
And may the blessings of the Lord rest
upon you and your family, and preserve
them all in your absence; and may this
mission add many stars to your crown, is
the prayer of your sisters of Smithfield.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions
be presented to Bishop Roskelly, a copy
put upon the records of this society, and a
copy be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for publication.
		Adeline Barber,		}
		Martha Williams,		} Committee.
		Sarah Woodruff,		}
		Elizabeth Juchaw,	}


AN invisible hair-net  is not  invisible by
a long shot when carried along the street on
a young man’s coat-button.
 Ex.Empress Eugenie has arrived at Cape
Town, South  Africa, in good  health.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, . . . . Editor.

 Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00 Ten copies  for  the  price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten  lines  of  nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per  month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House,  South  Temple Street.  Business  hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
Salt	Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, MAY 15, 1880.


[Column 1]
OUR LITTLE PAPER.

	It is not at all pretty; in fact it is exceedingly
plain in its appearance. But remember its
dress is home manufacture [paper.] It is often
grumbled about for its want of beauty, but it is
patiently enduring it all for the sake of princi-
ple. Practising what it preaches. But joking
aside, there never was a time since the publi-
cation of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, that it was
so widey and truly appreciated, we think, as
during the present year,
	We are in receipt of let'ers from several parts
of the United States, England, the Sandwich
Islands, New Zealand, Australia and the East
Indies as well as various parts of this Territory
testifying to the good influence of this little
paper wherever it is circulated.
	The influence of woman upon society is un-
iversally acknowledged,but somehow the world
has been very doubtful of women's papers,
whether their educational influence for good
would predominate. Women are now giving
practical proof in this regard for their papers
are being circulated far and wide, treating on
all the variety of subjects in which the world
at large are interested. Newspapers may be
made adaptable to the various conditions of
peoples,and educational upon all questions that
agitate the public mind from time to time, in-
deed such should be the aim. What would the
world of mankind be without newspapers; and
still further what would it be without woman's
publications? Women have been considered
only capable of novel writing, or exceptional
women perchance now and then classed as
poets, and a few more as rhymists, but now
how different things are. Women edit and
publish papers themselves, and assist in the
editorial department of those edited and pub-
lished by men. And it has actually come to
pass that a woman stands to day at the head
of the class,the greatest novel writer of the age
Original in her style and unique in her philoso-
phy of men and nature. But that is neither
her nor there except it is a strong point gained
in the cause of woman's intellectual equality.
	The EXPONENT has been instrumental in re-
moving much of the prejudice which has ex-
isted in regard to the condition of women in this
Church. Through its columns the sisters old
and young have spoken to the world, as they
could not have done in any other way; giving
free expression to their views and feelings in a
simple and untrammelled manner that could
not fail to give evidence of their liberty of
thought and action, and their religious sincer-
ity. They have also told the story of their own
hardships and persecutions suffered in conse-
quence of the bigotry and superstition that is
always opposed to the dawn of new light.
	The women of Utah need this channel of

[Column 2]
communication with each other and their
sisters in the world, and they should exert
themselves to sustain the paper and improve
it by able contributions to its columns. until it
attains a dignity and solidity proportionate to
the position they occupy as women of God.
	We trust that in the near future it may be so
improved in its typographical appearance as to
recommend itself more favorably to its readers.
	We entreat the sisters throughout the Terri-
tory and especially those interested in the vari
ous women's organizations to use their utmost
influence to extend its circulation. Would
it were possible to get at least five hundred
(a very mo[-]est figure indeed) new subscribers
to volume nine. Our sisters ought at least
to be able to keep up one journal exclusively
for their own benefit,when the brethren main-
tain so many publications. Let every mother
make up her mind to take it, she certainly
needs it, and the money will not be missed.
Women who are raising families should devote
a small portion of time each day to reading,
and become familiar with the doings of the
times in which they are living, what other
women are doing, and not narrow down to
their own little household and know nothing
of the great, busy, bustling, growing world
around them,and into which their children are
to be ushered. What would have been known
even here in Utah of the public work the sisters
have done, and are doing, had it not been for
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	In the households of the saints it is like a
pleasant friend with whom they have grown
familiar, and elsewhere it carries glad tiIdngs
of the Gospel of salvatio n.


EARLY REMINISCENCES,

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

This has been proclaimed as a year of jubilee
to the Latter-day  Saints  and  I  truly  rejoice
that I have had the privilege of being numbered
with those who have come up  through  much
tribulation and gained a knowledge for  myself
that this is the  work  of  God  which neither
wealth nor worldly honors  could tempt  me to
part with.  This is a world of sorrow  and  dis-
appointment.  Life and every thing here is un-
certain, but beyond  is eternal life and exalta-
tion.  The experience of the Latter-day Saints
during the past fifty years has  disciplined  and
prepared them in a measure for the great and
wonderful  changes  which  are coming, while
those who know not God are groping as it were
in midnight darkness.  The  blessings enjoyed
by us in these peaceful vales are very great and
I think that we can well afford  to  be  looked
down upon  and hated, for  we  know that the
time has come for the Lord to favor Zion.  We
no longer walk by  faith, alone, but by sight.
In the midst  of the greatest  persecutions  and
trials that the Saints  have  been  subjected to,
they have had that to  comfort  and sustain
them which the outside  world  cannot  under-
stand, and when drivings, burnings, whippings
and other cruelties were  inflicted  upon  them,
their spirits  would  have fainted  had  not  the
Lord through  the  Prophet  Joseph told  them
that in due time  He would come  out in  swift
judgment  against their  enemies,  who  should
be cut  off from before Him and in  his own due
time He would bear the  Saints  off conquerors
in  all  things.  In  their  sublime  faith  they
trusted in his promises, and I can testify that I
have witnessed during  those  scenes the great-
est calmness and patience  and  they  even  re-
joiced in the midst of their  afflictions.  As  an
example, I copy a few lines  from  my father’s
journal “We were brought up at  the  point  of
the bayonet and compelled  to  sign  a  dead  o
trust, transferring all our property to defray the
expenses of  the war made on  us by  the  State
of Missouri.  This was very cheerfully complied
with because  we  could  not  help ourselves.
When we walked up to sign  the deeds of trust
to pay those assassins for murdering ourbreth-
ren and sisters and their children, robbing us of
our lands and possessions and  all  we  had  on
earth and other such like services they expected
to see us cast down and sorrowful;  but I testify
as an eye witness  that  the  brethren  rejoiced
and praised the Lord, taking joyfully the des-
poiling of their goods,  There were judges and
magistrates, Methodists, Presbyterians, Camp-
belites  and  other  sectarian  priests  stood  by
and saw all the goings on, exulting over us,and
it seemed to make  them more angry  that  we
bore our misfortune so cheerfully.  Said Judge
Cameron with an oath, “see those d---d creat-
ures laugh and kick  up  their  heels,  they  are
whipped but  not conquered.” For me  to un- ’
dertake to write what I saw and felt I have not
the ability to do it, but I will let  eternity  re-
veal the scenes of those days.  I can say before
God and angels, heaven  and  earth  that I am
innocent of violating  any  law  of the State  of
Missouri,  and  my brethern are  as  pure  and
clean as I am, true to their God and their coun-
try and as Jesus  said  with  the  measure they
meted to the Latter-day  Saints  it  shall  be
measured to them again or upon all those who
consented  to it,  four-fold, running  over and 
preesed |down, and as the Lord God Almighty
liveth I shall live  to  see  it  come  to pass.”
Missouri suffered  all that  at  the  time of  the
war between the  north  and  south,  and  one
week ago that state and a portion of Illinois was
visited by a terrible  cyclone which: swept a-
way whole towns and villages and men, women
and children  destroying  everything  before it.
We scarcely take up a paper that has not  some
frightful account of deaths  by cyclones,  fires,
railroad  accidents, earthquakes, floods, the sea
heaving beyond its  bounds,  famines,  and also
pestilence which is more  terrible  than all  the
rest and when I think of the good  and the  in-
nocent who must  suffer with the  wicked, my
heart pains me and these things we know have
scarcely began.
It is forty years or more since the Latter-day
Saints were  driven  from  their  homes  in  the
State  of  Missouri,  and  although I  was  quite
young those scenes are  fresh  in my  memory.
I well remember the  night  that  the  Prophet
and others of the brethren gave themselves  up
to save the rest  of  us  from  being  massacred,
which the mob,  numbering  about  7,000,  had
threatened to do.  After the brethren  had  de-
livered up their weapons, the mob  surrounded
the city and commenced plundering, and com-
miting  horrible  outrages  upon  some  of  the
helpless women, the brethren being  prisoners.
Our house being  on the  outskirts, my  mother
took her children and went into  the  heart  of
the city to  stay  all  night  with  Sister  Mary
Smith, who was lying sick, but previous to go-
ing  there  we  called  on  the  widow  of  David
Patten, who had  been  killed  but  a  few  days
before.  I can never forget her fearless and de-
termined  look.  A round her waist was a belt
to which was attached a large bowie-knife.  She
had a fire in her stove and  a  large iron kettle
full of boiling waterand a  big  tin  dipper  in
her hand intending, she said, tb fight if any of
the demons came there.  She did  not  seem in
the least excited, her countenance was perfectly
calm and  she shed  no  tears,  the  fountains
seemed to have dried up and she only thought
of avenging the blood of her husband.
The parting  scene  between  Hyrum  Smith
and  his family  was heartrending.  He was


marched by a strong guard of heartless fiends
who ordered him to take his last farewell,
and his wife was told that she need never
think that she would see her husband again.
In less than a fortnight from that date, her
first child; a son (now one of the Twelve Apos-
tles) was born. She and Sister Patten were very
dear friends of my mother, both having lived
with her in Kirtland previous to marrying
brother Hyrum. Sister Patten stopped with my
mother one summer, while her husband and
my father went East on missions. Brother and
Sister Patten were the first to welcome us to
their house in Far West, where we stayed a
few days to recnperate as our bodies were weak-
ened by sickness,in consequence of the arduous
journey from Kirtland.
	(To be Continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		189


HOME AFFAIRS.

	ON Tuesday May 4, we had the pleasure of
attending tne annual meeting of the Relief So-
ciety of the 19th Ward Mrs. Rachel Whipple
presiding. The meeting was exceedingly inter-
esting. Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith,M. Isabella
Horne, Presendia M. Kimball and other able
speakers addressed the meeting. Mother
Whitney sang a song of Zion her voice ringing
out clear and musical. The meeting adjourned
to the Relief Society Hall near by where a
bounteous repast was laid, but previous to par-
taking of it Elder Wm. Asper made a dedicat-
ory prayer. This building is owned by the So-
ciety and has recently been remodelled and
nicely fitted up. The floor is entirely covered
with a substantial rag carpet; and the windows
are ornamented with handsome netted curtains
the handiwork of one of the sisters. We con-
gratulate the Society on their house and hope
others may be able to do likewise.

	A Treatise on Sericulture in pamphlet form
has just been issued from the Star Office in this
city. The book has been compiled carefully
from the best authors extant by Daniel Graves
of Provo whose zeal and labors for the estab-
lishment of this useful home industry are high-
ly commendable. It is certainly a good text
book for those who purpose doing anything in
this branch of work. The Index gives this list
of subjects. Synopsis of History of Sericulture,
Cultivation and Variety of Trees, Various kinds
of Silk-worms, Diseases of Worms, Causes and
Remedies, Feeding, Cocoonery and Hatching,
Preservation of Eggs and Cocoons,Notes. The
book contains forty-two pages and is well
worth the money. It ought to be circulated
throughout the Territory. As it is the inten-
tion of the officers and directors of the parent
Silk Association to push forward this creditable
enterprize at a more rapid speed than it has
heretofore. The book is for sale at this office.
Price 25 cts.

	ON Monday afternoon May 3d, a select
party of the friends of Mrs. Bathsheba W.
Smith assembled at her residence in honor of
the lady's birthday. Mrs. Rachel R. Grant
was the originator of the entertainment and as-
sisted the hostess in doing the honors on the
happy occasion. Among the guests were Pres-
John Taylor and a number of the Apostles.
Wilford Woodruff, Erastus Snow, D. H. Wells
Joseph F. Smith also Sisters Elizabeth Ann
Whitney, Eliza R. Snow Smith, Hannah T.
King,M. Isabelle Horne and many other veter-
an and staunch sisters as well as brethren, rel-
latives and old time friends of the lady whom
they had met to congratulate and happify.
	Refreshments were served at six o'clock and
while the guests were seated at table, "Sister


Eliza" read an original poem dedicated to Sister
Smith, which we publish in this number. The
evening was spent in conversing and some re-
marks were made by Elder Woodruff and
Pres. John Taylor. Mother Whiteny sang in
her most happy manner A Song of Zion This
venerable lady is well known to thousands of
the Latter-day Saints, to whom she is specially
endeared for many amiable qualities and her
ministrations of love in days of adversity and
also for her services in the Temples and House
of the Lord. Although she is now in her
eightieth year she is in the enjoyment of health
and her spiritual faculties are brighter if pos-
sible than ever.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S VOICE. 

	As an individual I feel to rejoice at the bright
prospect for the women of Utah; I have often
felt that it was unjust that the sons should be
so much more highly valued and esteemed
than the daughters, now I perceive that wo-
man's position is as honorable as that of man.
We as parents in the family circle consider our
sons and daughters equal, then why not our
hevenly parents regard theirs the same. Why
are we women given voices if they may not be
heard in the adjustment of laws for the protec-
tion of our children against the evils of the
world? Why are we given reason if we are not
to use it for the good of ourselves and our race.
It seems to me if the feeling and tradition to
look down upon our sex was called the Twin
Relic of Barbarism it would be rightly named.
	In all we do or say let us be moderate not
radical be sure we are right and in harmoney
with true principles then press forward.
	As a small community here we are striving
to retain the spirit and blessing of our heavenly
Father and trying to do our duty and may God
grant that we may keep our feet in His path is
the prayer of your humble sister in the Gospel
of Christ. The EXPONENT is welcomed here
and read with interest.
	JULIA  D. WILSON.
Hillsdale Iron Co., Utah.

	Your interesting paper comes duly to hand
once every two weeks. I take great pleasure
in reading its columns.
	The subject of teachers comes most forcibly
to my mind just now, for I have had a little
experience in this office being favored with the
blest opportunity of attending to that duty for
upwards of seven years, in times past, and
through the blessings of the Almighty I had
health and strength during that time to per-
form the duties required of me.
	I beleive that a teacher should be blessed
with light and wisdom with quick discern-
ment able to descsrn if the spirit of the Lord is
in the habitation we visit, if not try and find
out the cause. We should always cultivate a
quiet, meek spirit within ourselves so that we
can advise with our sisters such things as will
be for their best good and welfare and for
the furtherance of God's kingdom upon the
earth.
	We should dress neat and clean and use
econmy in all that is committed into our
charge. If we want ornaments let them be
the work of our own hands. We should set ex-
amples worthy of imitation not forgeting to call
upon the Lord in secret prayer before we set
out on our visit. Ask Him to accompany us
and to assist us by his holy spirit that all we do
may be done in righteousness, I for one feel
thankful to my heavenly Father that the ener-
gies of woman are being called into exercise
I know that we can do something for the good


of ourselves and the community at large. If
we will not hide up in the earth the talents
that the Lord has given us; but improve on
them that we may gain other talents. We can
do much to improve ourselves. Can read good
books and store our minds with useful know-
ledge and attend to the daily duties that are
required of us from day to day, in our families
and neighborhoods, blessing and strengthening
each other in the faith of the Gospel of truth.
							MARY GEATES.
	Millville.


OBSERVE THE GOLDEN RULE.

   I have thought  for some  time  that I should
like to mingle my voice with my sisters through
the columns  of our little  paper.  There are but
a few of  here in Eden it being a small place
still we have some good metings. And we take
a deep interest in trying to  do  right. For my
part I  think  that  we  should  be  united  and
strive  to live  righteously  and  improve  our-
selves and stop all backbiting;  if we try to live
up to our duty we have somthing of  more  im-
portance to occupy our time and we should im-
prove in our manners and  learn  to  guard  our
tongues and our tempers, and strive to do right
and learn to keep  the  golden  rule  "To  do  to
others as  you  would  that  they should do to
you.” I think if we would  observe  the golden
rule more than we do we would be more united
improve more rapidly and enjoy a better spirit.
Oh,-what happiness  there  would then be;  and
if we would be more prayerful and humble; and
try to live up to every principle of our religion,
Satan  could have little or  no  power, for I be-
leive he is using his utmost endeavors and try-
ing to bring destruction upon the earth if we
would listen to the  good instructions we hear
and put  them  into  practice  we  would  enjoy
more true happiness than  we can in any other
way.
								E. J. F.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED: at Mendon, Cache County April 10th,
1880, Mary  Ann wife of the late John Gardiner
aged 74 years,she was born in Glocuester-shire,
England and was baptized  into  the Church of 
Jesus Christ of L. D. S., in the Chalford Branch
of the Cheltenham Conference by Elder James
Stephens on the 22nd, of May 1845.  And emi-
grated with her family to  Utah  in  1853.  She
died  as  she  had  lived  a  faithful  Latter-day
Saint, rejoicing in the hope of a glorious resur-
rection.  She leaves a  numerous  progeny  be-
hind her who we trust will strive to remember
and emulate her virtues. 
									COM.

	DIED: at Hoytsville of  erysipelas, Mrs. And
Lowe, born at Stole, Sumerset-shire,  England
December 13th, 1811, died Feb.  9th, 1880, aged
68 years,  one  month  and  twenty-six  days.
Funeral  services  were  held  at  the  meeting
house Feb  11th. the house being crowded  by
friends and relations.
	Remarks were made by Bishops Winters  of 
Hoytsville and Roundy of Wanship.
	Mrs Lowe was a woman beloved and respected
by all who  knew  her and  was ever a  faithful
Latter-day Saint,after joining the Church Nov.
6th 1845.  After moving to  Hoytsville she was
president of the  Relief  Society  for  five  years
but at the end of that time she resigned on ac-
count of poor health.  From a family  of eight
children four are left to mourn her loss. 

	"We only know that thou hast gone, 
And that the same returnless tide
	Which bore thee from us; still glides on
And we, who monrn thee, with it glide."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.
			_____
	BLOOMINGTON, IDAHO, April 4, 1880.
	DEAR SISTER WELLS.—At the Instance
of Mrs.  Sarah  Greenhalgh,  President of
Bloomington Relief Society, a dinner party
was held in the Meeting House on Friday,
2d inst., at which a sumptuous  repast  was
served; after which meeting was called  to
order by Bishop  Hulme, prayer  offered  by
Bro. Greenhalgh.  Bp. Hulme wished every
one&nbsp;to contribute to  the  entertainment  as
they felt  disposed.  Father  Patten  related
his first meeting with the Prophet Joseph
Smith,  in  Nauvoo, and spoke  of some of
the scenes  that  transpired  there;  was  one
of those who witnessed the  battle with the
mob, and related some of the incidents well
known to the Saints.  Father Thornick be-
ing called upon responded by a song. Sis-
'ter Ann  Womsley  made  a few  remarks.
Father  Nelson  addressed  the  company in
the  Danish  language, Bro.  Fred. Jacobson
giving the  interpretation;  also  bore  testi-
mony to the truth of this work.  Sister M.
Roberts sang a song of her own composition.
A step dance by Bro. Ward, Sisters Haddock
and Womsley;  ditto,  Father  Nelson  and
Sisters Nelson  and  Christiansen,  followed
by a song by Father Jarvis.
	Sister Lindsay, Stake President of Relief
Societies, then addressed  us, and said she
was pleased with a party got up as this was;
to honor the aged in  our  midst; felt such
meetings a comfort and  stimulus  to  us  to
work for the Father who sent us here.  Said
it was our duty to be obedient to the Word
of God, and  that we could  not  receive a
blessing without laboring for it.  Urged us
to live up to our privileges and do our duty
with cheerfulness, and be punctual&nbsp;in at-
tending our meetings.
	Song by Bro. Long.  Pres.  Hart  said  he
was pleased with the meeting, and  happy
to be one with us on the present  occasion.
Congratulated the Bishop on his large family;
indulged in a few laughable remarks, and
said we had reason to  be  thankful we  had
the privilege of beholding the progress of
the kingdom of God.  Said we had no cause
to fear death, if we lived up to our  privi-
leges.  Complimented  the sisters  on  the
success of their dinner.  Felt to commend
Bp. Hulme and his associates on a meeting
of this kind, and thought it a foretaste  of
the Order of Enoch.
	Quartette by Bro. and Sister  Greenhalgh
and Bro. and Sister Jarvis.  Sister  Herod
spoke a short time.  Pres. Greenhalgh  felt
the Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  our  midst, and
hoped this would not be the last gathering
of this kind.  Bro. J. Walker addressed us
in a very interesting manner.  Song by Bp.
Hulme.  Recitation, J. Womsley.  Dance,
J. Haddock.  Song, Pres. Hart.  Sisters R.
Walker  and  E. Long made a few remarks,
after which Bp. Hulme addressed us.  Dis-
missed  by Pres. Hart.
	A vote of thanks was tendered Bp. Hulme
and committee.  Following  are  the names
and ages  of some of the company:  Father
Patten, 81 years;  Sister Yenson, 80;  Father
Nelson, 77;  Sister  A. Womsley,  76;  Sister
Holt, 71;  Sister Nelson, 76; Sister Herod, 76;
Sister M. Peterson, 74; Father Jarvis, 68;
Sister C. Peard, 61; Sister Collins, 66; Sister
Roberts, 60.
	Yours Respectfully,	
&nbsp;&nbsp;			ELIZABETH PIGGOT, Sec’y.
				_______
	Report of  the  Annual  meeting  of  the
Primary  Association  of  Smithfield  held
March  27th,  1880,  commencing  at ten
o’clock. After  the opening  exercises the
[column break]
minutes and report of the Association  were
read and accepted.  Questions  were  then
asked by Pres. Martha Williams from  the
History of Joseph Smith, and were prompt-
ly answered.  Songs and  recitations were
then given by  the  children.  A number of
the brethren present  spoke encouragingly
of  the  good  this  Association  was  doing.
Bishop  Roskelly then told the  children to
nominate their own officers which they did,
sustaining the following named officers un-
animously.  Martha  Williams,  President;
Rebecca Hillyard, and Lillian  Jones, Coun-
selors;  Sarah E. Juchaw Secretary, Emma
Neilson, Assistant Secretary,  and  Hannah
Christiansen,  Treasurer.  A  concert  was
held  in  the  evening  beginning  at seven
o’clock, in which 54  children participated.
The songs,  recitations  and  dialogues were
well rendered and gave general satisfaction;
the proceeds from the concert  were  $11.25.
After  deducting  expenses  the  remainder,
$8.00, was presented to our beloved Bishop,
who has  been called  on a mission to Great
Britain.  He has  ever been a kind  friend
and counselor to us and we shall miss him.
We are trying  to  prorgess in every  good
thing so that  we may  be  prepared  for the
great future that awaits us.  This  Associa-
tion comprises 6 officers and  241  members.
Total officers and members 247;  have  held
51 meetings during the year.  Received in
donations $5.20cts.  Disbursed in books and
cards, $4.90cts; have also donated $5.00 in
quilts to the Logan Temple, and we have 2
bushels and 3 pks. of wheat and 9 and a half
qts. of beans on hand.  praying God  to  bless
all those who labor  for  the  welfare  of Zion,
I remain your sister in the Gospel,
			SARAH E. JUCHAW, Sec’y.
				_____
	Statistical and Financial  Report  of  the
Davis Stake Relief Society for the year end-
ing April 16, 1880.  Number of  officers and
members reported, 414; average attendance,
112;  meetings held, 208;  EXPONENT taken,
59: amount of cash and property  on  hand
April 16,  1879, $1105.84; amount  received,
762,75;  disbursed $637.19; on  hand  April
16, 1880,  $1,231.40; of wheat on hand 627
bus., 7 lbs.
&nbsp;		MINERVA E. RICHARDS.
	Relief Society Stake Secretary.
		________
	Having enjoyed the  Spirit  of the  Lord
so abundantly in the meetings held  in this
place Tuesday, April 6, in commemoration
of the Fiftieth anniversary of  this Church,
Sister  Ellen  Lunt,  President  of Parowan
Stake  R. S., desired  the  sisters  to  attend
their meeting to be held on Thursday, April
8, in  the  Social Hall, Cedar City, that they
might also partake of the blessings of God.
In obedience to request, a large  number  of
the sisters, also a few brethren, met in the
Hall at 2 P. M.,  April  8.  The  brethren,
upon being requested, addressed the sisters,
encouraging them to continue in their good
works  and labor  of love;  also  spoke in the
interest of  silk  raising and other home pro-
ductions.  The  brethren  in a special man-
ner  exhorted the sisters  to  show to their
children examples worthy of imitation, and
to  use  good language becoming  Saints  of
God.  Several  of  the  sisters addressed the
meeting, bearing their testimony to the di-
vinity of plural marriage and thanking God
that they had been counted worthy of hav-
ing the privilege  of  sustaining  one  of his
holy  commandments.  The  Spirit  of the
Lord  was  abundantly  poured  out.  Many
more of  the sisters were  desirous  to  speak
had time permitted.
	It was  also unanimously agreed  that the
[column break]
grain owned  by  the  Society  and  already
having been disbursed by our Bishop should
be  loaned without interest  being charged.
After the meeting all present sat  down to a
picnic supper, which  closed the  afternoon
very agreeably.
	I will here state that this society has pur-
chased a piece  of land  for  the  purpose  of
raising  mulberry trees  and  making  some
little advancement  in  the progress  of  this
branch of home  industry.  The Society in
general  seem  alive  to  their  duties,  and
realize that we  should be co-workers with
the  brethren in all  the  noble  enterprises
entered  into to sustain and build up God’s
kingdom.
		J. P. MACKLEPRANG,
	Secretary Cedar  City Relief Society.
			_______
	The Juab  County  Stake  Relief  Society
held their Annual Conference  on  the  16th
of April, 1880, in the Nephi Meeting House,
commencing at  10 o’clock, A. M.  Present
on the stand, the officers of the  Stake  and
branch, also the President  and counselor of
the Mona branch. Pres. Teasdale and  Coun-
selor K. H. Brown, Patriarch Jacob G. Big-
ler, Bishop  Charles Sperry and Bro. George
Kendall.
	After the usual opening  exercises  the
morning was occupied  by  the  Primary and
Young Ladies’ Associations in  reading and
giving  verbal  reports, which  show  a  very
visible improvement since their last report.
Pres. Teasdale. occupied&nbsp;a short  time  in
speaking to the little  folks, which  was  cal-
culated to encourage  them  to  be  diligent
and persevere in  the  good work  in which
they seem to delight.
	The afternoon was occupied by the Relief
Societies  of  the  Stake,  Pres.  Goldsbrough
presiding, who made a few remarks  on the
progress of the Society and the duties of its
members.  Also gave  a  general  invitation
to  the  brethren  to  visit our meetings and
see for themselves how we get along.
 Remarks were  made  by  Pres. M. Pitch-
forth, of Nephi, Pres.  Somerville, of Mona,
Counselors Kendall and Picton, of the Stake,
Pres.  Teasdale,  Bishop  Sperry,  and  Bro.
Love;  all spoke of  the improvement in our
societies, and gave us  good counsel and en-
couraged us to diligence.  The Spirit of  the
Lord  was  in  our  midst and  we had an ex-
cellent meeting.
	Statisticol [sic]&nbsp;and Financial Report of  Juab
Stake  for the year  ending  April  16, 1880:
Teachers,  56;  members,  232,  total,  288;
meetings held, 28; average attendance; 135;
WOMAN'S EXPONENT&nbsp;taken, 18.
	Financial: On hand at date of  last report,
property,  $2,018.95;  wheat, 93&nbsp;1/2&nbsp;bushels;
receipts during the year, property, $462.98;
wheat,  26 1/4;  disbursements  to  the  poor,
property, $308.04; Temple, $153.75;  home
industries, $4.00;  books, $3.00;&nbsp;material for
building and lots, $2,153.25;  on hand, cash,
$50;  property,  $56.63;  wheat, 197 bushels;
16 pounds, valued at $1.18 per bushel.  Re-
lief Society Stake officers,
	Amelia Goldsbrough, President,
	Elizabeth Kendall,		[curly bracket indicating&nbsp;&nbsp;		Counselors.
	Jane Picton,&nbsp;&nbsp;			Elizabeth Kendall and Jane Picton]
	Amy L. Bigler, Secretary.
	Ever praying for the success of Zion, we
remain
		MRS. A. GOLDSBROUGH, Prest.
		A. L. Bigler, Sec'y.


IN old times men used their power of
painting to show the objects of faith; in
later times they used the objects of faith
that they might show their powers of paint-
ing.—J. Ruskin.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		191


[Column 1]
CONSISTENCY.

	We are sometimes told that this rare
quality is a jewel, and when used in weigh-
ing subjects, we find it is truly the case.
For instance, we are told that we are living
under the curse, which God our Father pro-
nounced upon woman when our first par-
ents were driven out of the Garden of
Eden. Admitting this to be so, let us con-
sistently weigh the subject, and we find
wisdom in accepting the reproof as our Fa-
ther designed we should; it will eventually
prove a blessing. Does the chastisement
of a loving parent ever prove anything
else? No, never! it invariably awakens
the mind to subjects of interest, too impor-
tant to be forgotten; and while we adhere
to them we find our abilities developed and
strengthened by giving heed to his laws.
But you say, "What ability can be devel-
oped by having your desire toward your
husband, and he to rule over you?" In the
first place, I would be careful to choose a
husband who considered himself accounta-
ble to God, our Father, for all his acts; be-
lieving the rules given were equally de-
signed for each of us to observe. Would
it then be difficult to honor and sustain such
an one as our head, for since we have ar-
rived to years of accountaaility, we find it
necessary to be lovers of good order.
	The Apostle Paul says, "When I was a
child I thought as a child, I spoke as a child;
but when I became a man, I put away child-
ish things." Accordingly, we must be con-
sistent beings, and realize that our lessons
are in advance of that of childhood. We
are preparing to be men and women in our
Father's kingdom. We must learn to give
love to whom love is due, honor to whom
honor, and fear to whom fear. Yet we
are told to become like little children to
inherit this kingdom. True, in our love to
our Heavenly Parents. But children love
that which dazzles and attracts the atten-
tion; when older, they find that thorns grow
among the roses and the bitter and the
sweet are mingled through mazes of life.
And to become men and women in Christ,
we need not only one of our own faith to
assist us, but also the Spirit of Christ, with
his faith and zeal also. It is necessary to
add that through all the duties of life we
need to be consistent. And particularly in
the management of children do not be
hasty or harsh, but help them to see things
in their own true light. And yet remem-
ber it is not a kindness to indulge them in
their own way, but on the contrary, show
them this is not always wisdom. Teach
them that self-denial is a virture, and disci-
pline them in its proper exercise. We
should know what is right ourselves, as
mothers and teachers, and with firmness
and dignity, asking the help of our Heav-
enly Father, that we may make the right
impression on their young and tender
minds; which by precept and example can
be done, but it is necessary to correct in
gentleness and the spirit of love, which is a
stronger power than the rod. As we read in
the second epistle of John, 4th chap., 4th
and 5th verses:
	"I rejoiced greatly that I found of thy
children walking in truth, as we have re-
ceived a commandment from the Father.
	"And now I beseech thee, lady, not as
though I wrote a new commandment unto
thee, but that which we had from the be-
ginning, that we love one another."
	As there are great events in the future, we
cannot be too careful in preparing them for
that near future, when they will be called
upon the stage of action. And that we
may, as mothers in Israel, have wisdom to

[Column 2]
prepare them for this great event, is the
prayer of your sister in the Gospel,
					M. E. KIMBALL.
	Salt Lake City, May 5, 1880.


[Column 1]
FANNY FERN.

BY E. ADDIE HEATH.

	With feeling of deep reverence and affec-
tion we look into the face of this great wo-
man, who toiled not for herself alone, but
who honestly earned from her own sex,
gratitude that ought to quicken the pulse
and throb in the heart of every woman, as
long as one lives to remember her who so
bravely battled with, and overcame circum-
stances the most forbidding and dreary.
	To-day gifted women need not feel them-
selves alone; for since the time she of whom
we speak exclaimed: "O, the saving power
there is in feeling that there is one human
being who cares whether we stand or fall,"
woman has been winning day by day not
only justice of criticism, which rightly be-
longed to her, but justice of heart, which is
justly woman's due.
	Genius is of no sex!
	In Portland, Maine, July 9th, 1811, a
daughter was born to Nathaniel Willis,
(father of N. P. Willis,) who became known
to the public as Fanny Fern. She was
christened Grata Payson Willis, "but the
family so strongly objected to the classical
name of Grata, that the still more ancient
name of Sara was substituted, and by this
name she was called, until she had invented
and given celebrity to another.
	Again the illustration of "blessings on the
hand of women" for we have good authority
for saying that it "was unquestionably from
their mother that N. P. Willis, Fanny Fern,
and their brothers and sisters derived the
talent which all of them, in some measure
inherited."
	The family removed to Boston while she
was an infant. Here her father, a practical
printer, established a printing house, and
later began the publication of "The Record-
er," a religious newspaper, and later yet,
the publication of the "Youth's Compan-
ion," for which, after her school-life was
ended, she occasionally wrote bright, pretty
pieces.
	Her childhood was a happy one. She is
remembered as an interesting little girl,
full of activity, her hair curling and golden,
her complexion briliant. Her home, in
which there was a spare room, with an old
arm chair, where a large Bible lay—the
room her mother used to go into, sighing as
she closed the door. "Young as I was,"
dear, dear Fanny Fern tells us, "I had
learned to watch for her coming out; for
the sweet, calm, holy look her features
wore fascinated me like a spell. Now I
khow how it was; now that the baptism of
a woman's lot has been mine also; and of-
ten, when blinded by the waves of trouble
which have dashed over my head, have I
thought of the open Bible in the old arm-
chair, its pages wet with tears which no
human eye saw fall, wiped away by no hu-
man hand, but precious in His eyes as the
seed of the husbandman," from which He
garners the golden harvest sheaves. Until
the year 1872,this old house was still stand-
ing. The Boston Fire swept it away.
	"I loved my mother!" are her own words,
"Everybody did!"
	Her education was acquired at various
schools; that of Miss Catharine Beecher at
Hartford, she remembered as one of the
liveliest and best.
	In 1837 she was married to Mr. Charles Eld-

[Column 2]
redge, the cashier of the Merchant's bank,
Boston, with whom she lived in affluence
and constant happiness for nine years. This
true home was first invaded by sorrow
when her first child, a beautiful little girl
of seven years "went to that blessed home
where tears are wiped away," and where,as
she has feelingly said: "Aunt Fanny knows
her lost are found." And before this first
deep grief had spent itself, the husband
was stricken with a fever, and after a six
weeks' illness the strong arm upon which
the fond wife had leaned so trustingly was
powerless to shield her,—he to whom she
entrusted her life happiness lay "magnifi-
cent in death."
	His estate defrayed the cost of adminis-
tering—that was all. The widow found her-
self entirely dependent upon her own efforts
for the support of herself and her two little
girls.
	What could she do to earn money?
	How mamy, many women in like circum-
stances have asked the same question.
	She tried sewing. She applied for a sit-
uation, and passed an examination for a
public school teacher, but the preference
was given to another.
	When every other door seemed closed
against her, the thought occurred to her
that she might earn a livehood by writing.
	From the great road of life, is there a path-
way traced out for every human soul? Why,
then, this blind groping in a dense forest,
where the thick underbrush opposes a step
forward, and the sharp thorns and briers
that catch at the outer garments, pierce
and tear the delicate flesh when the hands
try to loosen their grasp? That the feet
may strike that pathway? That the
step may be made firm? No need to ask
you or me, for we don't know; nor can we
tell until we come to the end of our path-
way.
	In a desparing moment she dashed off
"The Model Minister," and carried the
article herself first to one office, then to
another, until the editor of a little maga-
zine,—"kind hearted man!"—agreed to
take the manuscript for half a dollar. to be
paid on publication day. A discouraging
experience! but nearly every paper in Bos-
ton republished the article.
	This encouraged a second attempt, so she
toiled on. Other papers copied her bright,
witty sayings, and ere long she had no dif-
ficulty in disposing of whatever she pre-
pared.
	It was after her name had attracted public
notic, that she wrote:
	"Nobody could be more astonished than
I, to find myself famous; I never dreamed
of it, when I sat in a small room, at the top
of the house where I lodged, scribbling over
a sheet of coarse foolscap with 'noms de
plume,' out of which I was to choose one for
my first article—which article I never
thought of preserving, any more than the
succeeding ones, supposing my'meagre pec-
uniary remuneration the only reward I was
to hope for. I think the reason I selected
the name Fern was because when a child,
and walking with my mother in the coun-
try, she used always to pluck a leaf of it,
to place in her bosom, for its sweet odor,
and that gloomy morning, when I almost
despaired of earning bread for my children,
I had been thinking of her, and wishing
she were living, that I might lay my head
upon her bosom and tell her all my sorrows;
and then memory carried me back, I scarce
knew how, to those childish days, when I
ran before her in the woods, to plnck the
sweet fern she loved: and then I said to
myself, my name shall be 'Fanny Fern'—
little dreaming anybody would ever know
or care anything about it."


Could  more  of  the  womanly  heart  be
shown  than  is  reflected  in  these  simple
words.
 Her spicy articles were collected into little
volumes and  published under the  titles
"Fern Leaves,"  Fresh  Ferns,"  and  "Little
Ferns  for  Fanny's  Little  Friends,"  for
which  she received  a  large  amount  of
money.  Then  followed  "Rose Clark" and
"Ruth Hall."
 A little later  the  engagement  with  Mr.
Robert Bonner was entered  into--to  write
exclusively  for the "New  York  Ledger,"
for which she was paid one hundred dollars
a column!
In January, 1856, she was married to Mr.
James  Parton.  Her  connection  with  the
"Ledger" she continued  to  the close of her
life.
 Mr. Parton has given us a Memorial vol-
ume, in which he informs us that the "last
six years of her life were a constant struggle
with death; and what made it more remark-
able was, that the conflict went on in secrecy.
From the moment when she discovered her
condition, she determined that if she could
not  avoid  being  sick,  she  could  at  least
avoid appearing so.  Her activity of  mind,
and her spirit of  fun  survived to the  end.
To within  a  few  hours  of  her  death, she
made peculiar comment upon events passing
in her room, and showed  a lively apprecia-
tion of the ludicrous."
On the day of her  death, which  occured
October 10th, 1872, she helped array her little
grand daughter, for a birthday fete. When
they physician,  in  reply  to  her  question
"Am I  dying?"  bowed  his  head, she  re-
quested  that  little  Effie  be  brought, she
gave her her  parting  words,  then  said;
"Now let  her  go  back  to the  party.  If I
die this  evening, let her go to  bed without
knowing it.  And  don't  tell  her  before
breakfast.  After  breakfast,  tell  her  I am
better, and have gone to see her mother.
Then  there  were  parting  words  for  all,
and "while still in the most perfect  posses-
sion of her  conciousness  she  breathed her
last."
 Out in  dear  Mount  Auburn,  where  so
many precious dead lie, there is an exquisite
cross, ornamented  with  ferns,  which  bears
the name "Fanny  Fern;"  there  is a small
mound, under which the little prattler who
used to pray, please, God, let  me die before
my papa," sleeps.  On  the  marble  at the
head of the large grave is written,  "Charles
H. Eldredge."
 The daughter  who  became  the  wife  of
Mortimer Thornton, "Doe sticks," is buried
beside her husband. they have both been
dead some time.  Little  Effie  grown  to a
beautiful and talented  young lady  is their
only child.  She inherits, it is thought, the
genius of her grandmother.
 Grace, the remaining daughter of "Fanny
Fern," is now Mrs. James Parton.--Women
At Work.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
SEVERAL of the leading Continental jour-
nals  report  that  the  Archduke  Rudolph
"proposed" in person to Princess Stephanie
of Belgium at an evening party given in his
honor at the Chateau  de Laeken on the 7th
instant.  Among the amusements provided
for their Majesties'  guests  were  conjuring
performances by the celebrated prestidigit-
ator,  Professor  Herrmann, and  a concert in
the magnificent  conservatory  attached  to
the Castle.  Matters had been  so  arranged
that  when  the  company  were  conducted
from the saloon in which Herrmann had held
seance to the Winter Garden, the Archduke
and the Princess were left together tete a-


tete for a few  minutes.  As  soon  as  they
were alone, the future  Emperor-King ap-
proached her Royal Highness with a low and
formal obeisance, saying, "Madam, will you
take me for a husband?" to which plain ques-
tion  the  Princess  simply  replied,  curtsey-
ing deeply, "Yes, your Imperial Highness."
"Your Royal  Highness's answer makes me
supremely happy," observed the Archduke.
"And I," rejoiced Princess Stephanie, "pro-
mise that I will do  my  duty  towards you
under all  circumstances."  No  more was
said; but  the  youthful  pair, arm-in-arm
joined the Royal circle in the Winter Gar-
den, and the Archduke, leading his fair com-
panion up  to  her  father,  addressed  King
Leopold as follows:  "Sire, I have with your
Majesty's permission  begged  the  Princess
Stephanie to bestow her hand upon me. It 
is my happy  privilege  to  inform  you  that
my petition has  been  granted."  I rejoice,
Monseigneur," replied  the King, "to greet
you as my son-in-law."  The  Princess em-
braced her mother,  and  immediately after-
wards the Imperial-Royal betrothal was an-
nounced to the assembled company.


Dyspepsia C[---]: H.  H.  Warner  and  Co.--
Gents--I have for some time past been afflicted
 with dyspepsia from  which  I could obtain no
permanent relief, utnil I used your Safe Bitters
and Pills:  and since using them I have had no 
trouble from my  former  complaint, and  I can
now truly say that  I am a well man.
	I am greatfully yours,
					C P BROOKS.
	Roche ter, N. Y., October 5, 1879.

WARNER'S SAFE BITTERS
	It is the best Blood Purifier, and stimulates
every function to more healthful action, and is 
thus a benefit in all diseases.
	In eliminating the impurities of the blood, the
natural and necessary result is the cure of Scrof-
ulous and other Skin Eruptions and Diseases,
including Cancers, Ulcers and other Sores.
	Dyspepsia, Weakness of the Stomach, Consti-
pation,  Dizziness,  General  Debility, etc., are
cured by the Safe Bitters. It is unequaled
as an appetizer and regular tonic.
	It is a medicine which should be in every fam-
ily, and which, wherever used, will save the
payment of many doctors' bills.
	Bottles of two sizes; prices, 50 cents and $1.00.
SAFE 
KIDNEY & LIVERCURE
SAFE
DIABETES CURE
SAFE TONIC
NEBVINE
PILLS
READ' Save Thyself
Warner's Safe Reme-
dies are sold 
by Druggists 
and Dealers
in Medicine
everywhere.
H.H. WARNER & CO.,
Proprietors,
Rochester, N.Y.
Send for Pamphlet
and Testimonials.
DR. A. DUNFORD,
DENTIST. 
SPECIAL ATTENTION  PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth.  Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE: -- MAIN ST.,  OPPOSITE  SALT  LAKE HOUSE.
		P.O. BOX' 541
	NEW SPRING STOCK.
	F. AUERBACH  &  BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT  LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress  Goods,  Embroideries, Ruch
ings.  Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves,  Trimmings,  Ladies
Ties, Cu[---]an Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions
boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
goods. Etc., Etc.

DAVID JAMES
	(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,) 
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
		Agent for
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
	Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responded to.
	Address. David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
	ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN  AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE--Up stairs, in  Old  Constitution Building.
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south  side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of 
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR
	A LARGE STOCK
OF HOME MADE TRUNKS for sale by JOHN C. CUT-
LER, Agent of the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building, also Home-Made
Blankets, Flannels,
Shawls,
Linseys,
Jeans, 
Brown Yarn, 
White Yarns, 
Colored Yarns, 
Cassimeres,
Tweeds,
Cotton Batting,
Wool Batting,
Brooms,
Washboards,
Brushes, &c. 

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East  Temple Street.
		MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY The lates and  most  stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers,  Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes  Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good 
work guaranteed.
	Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
	in all kinds of
DRY GOODs, NOTIONS, GROCHERIES, 
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE, 
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE. 
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, (&c.)

AT TEASDEL'S
	SALT LAKE CITY.
Special departments  for  Gent's  Clothing
and Carpets, Ladies and  Children's Shoes,
Dry Goods,  Shawls  and Domestics,
Groceries, Hardware  and Stoves.

DRIED FRUITS  of all  CLASES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.
FRENCH HAIR STORE.
	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment  of  Curls,  Braids,  Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the  most  Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.  
					JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.			97 Kimball Block. 
	HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR  SEWING  MACHINE.
IF not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing  Machine  Construction  The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and without any  noise and confu-
sion, although the  rate of  speed  is  very high. Its self-
setting and self-threading huttle, and absence of springs
and cogs renders it both simple  and durable. Be sure to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend.
Victor  Sewing  Machine  Co.,  Chicago, Ill.
	O. B. RIGGS, Agent Salt Lake City. 
H. DINWOODEY. 
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS. WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
[-]ABY CARRIAGEtS.
75, 77,  & 79  First South St. SL.C.

