VOL. 8.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1879.		No. 2.


[For the EXPONENT.
DRIFTING AWAY.

BY MARY J. TANNER.

Drifting away, Ah yes!
	Drifting right out with the tide,
So far that you never would guess
	The ocean of life was so wide.

Drifting away from the shore,
	From their homes and the friends of their youth,
Never to rest any more,
	In the haven of honor and truth.

Drifting away from their God
	From His love and the promise He gave;
Losing their hold of the rod
	That guides them across the dark wave,

Carelessly passing them by,
	Never to see them again;
Turning no glance of the eye
	To gaze on the hopes that are slain.

Softly the billows may roll,
	And sparkle and dance as they go,
And give no alarm to the soul,
	Of the danger that darkens below.

Sunlight and starlight may be
	Fairer than ever before,
As they enter the boat in their glee,
	That carries them out from the shore.

But ocean has dangers below,
	That mock at our steps as we glide,
And many a good ship we know
	Has sunk in its fathomless tide.

Many a barque has gone down
	freighted with sorrow and care;
For life spent in folly and crime
	There cometh but death and despair!

Smoothly they pass for awhile
	Sofrly they float with the breeze;
Fortune and friendship may smile
	Luring to comfort and ease.

But Oh! when the clouds fill the skies
	And fiercely the dark billows roll,
No glimmer of hope may arise
	To comfort the fear-laden soul.

Provo, May 28, 1879.


[Column 1]

AFTER LONG YEARS.

LETTER vii.

	Amid the grand old woods of oak and pine,
	I sit me down, 'mong mosses, flowers and ferns,
	And thought, with magic pow'r almost divine;
	Unconsciously to other days returns.

	The spring-time, or early summer has a
peculiar effect upon an imaginative nature;
indeed it may be said, this season when
spring just merges into summer, is in itself
romantic. It calls forth sentiment, and
plays powerfully upon the emotions.Beauty
lies all around us, and consequently it im-
presses the thoughts, and one is likely to
give these powerful thoughts expression in
some form suited to the individual. Ten-
nyson says;
In the spring a fuller crimson comes upon the robin's
	breast,
In the spring the wanton lapwing gets himself another
	crest
In the spring a livelier iris changes on the burnisned dove,
In the spring a young man's fancy lightly turns to
	thoughts of love,
And we think Tennyson knows that there
is a peculiar fascination in nature which be-
longs to the spring, and mortals akin to na-
ture in its every form being "of the earth
earthy" are sensibly acute to these elemen-
tary forces that produce what is very beauti-
 ully termed spring.

[Column 2]

	The buds and tender leaves the wild-
birds' notes, the winged minstrelsy of
woods and meadows, and later all the glory
of the full-blown flowers, and ever grateful
verdure in rich profusion, crowning as it
were the very earth with gladness, all
these inspire the heart and mind to give
some token of this holiday, the waking to
new life of latent forces; and involuntarily
the soul bursts forth, chanting in hopeful
music the melody that reaches down into
the very secret chambers of our being.
	An excess of joy must always be tem-
pered with sadness, or at least blended, as
the minor notes blend with those that are
high and shrill, and while nature revels in
its glorious beauty, and the spirit rejoices
in accordance there with, there are also low
tones of music sweet and clear that thrill to
the very center of the human heart and
stir its deepest fountains, with a something
indefinable, but which harmonizes with the
twilight, and the soft murmur of the brook-
let, and the song of the nightingale. And
in the train of thought that comes with
twilight shadows, soft murmuring waters,
and the songs of thrush and nightingale,
there steals athwart the soul a pensive ten-
derness, that stirs the oldest memories, and
all unconsciously, we stand as 'twere in
places where our feet have trod many
"long years ago," and vividly before us, as
by enchantment all the realisms coeval
with the very hour, live again within our
hearts; we see the wood-path where we
wound our way through tangled vines and
brake and rotten wood, and hear perchance
the woodman's axe again, as though its
echeos lingered in our souls these forty years,
and pushing onward through the tangled
copse pierced with the briars, gathering
here and there a wild-flower, we feel the
conscious touch of some soft hand within
our own, and, blessed memory! It thrills us
now as it did then, and we might dream of
bliss like this forever, were it not that some
fierce night owl with red eyes, glares at us,
or screeches its horrid notes, and wakes us,
as it were, in terror; or a serpent hisses
beneath our feet and warns us that life's
path's beset with danger. Yes even in
our memory of the past, the reveries of
blissful thoughts, these horrid phantoms
glide and mock at human happiness.
	And thus in the brightest moments of
our lives we are pursued by shadows; and
'tis well, for we cannot bear too much of
sunshine and graciously the shadows inter-
vene,and sadness blends with joy, as shad-
ows with the sunlight, and the stars shine
in the darkness, as hope mingles with our
sorrows; and we know all things by con-
trast; and after toil and weariness there's
rest, and thus we learn life's lessons, and if
we're wise we'll gather precious treasures by
the way, and enshrine them in our hearts,
that we may feast upon them in our lonely
hours. The harvest of good fruit sewn by
kind acts, and loving words and deeds of
simple unaffected charity. These are the
gems that will adorn the brows of those
who live to bless their fellow beings.
	How many such, who now have passed
away our memory can recall, and they will
live forever; and every spring the fair
green earth shall see, shall be the sweeter,

[Column 3]

fairer, fresher, purer and more fragrant, be-
cause of these dear ones, whose deeds of
holy love have consecrated them to God;
and in the blessed morn of the eternal
spring when heaven shall crown the earth
with that ecstatic kiss that thrilling
through every fiber shall wake the dead,
and breathe into their re-awakened souls,
the consciousness of all they are and were
and are to be, then shall we know what
gave us this keen sense of all the beautiful,
this power to draw such perfect imagery
and call up memories that long years have
buried deep; and all the magic and un-
known, will be revealed to those whose
mission has been nobly filled.
	None should sit idle while there are
flowers or gems to gather, though they
must plunge into the thicket to obtain
them, or dive into the oceans depths, and
if we let our fear of thorns and briars daunt
us, or even the creatures beneath; then we
must be content without the blessing, for
none can conquer but the brave. And
when the victory is won we can sit down
and count our sorrows o'er, but till that
time, we must push on, and yet there are
some pleasant pastures by the way, and
healing waters where the thirsty traveler
may drink; and if we are diligent who
knows but we may reach the everlasting
hills that tempt us in the distance, that
seem so near until we try to reach them.
	AUNT EM.


THE DEATH of William Loyd Garrison
made heavy the hearts of thousands who
had been accustomed to look up to him as
one of the great leaders and advocates of
woman's rights and woman's suffrage, It
is said that in London he refused to take
part in a World's Temperance Convention
which rejected women as delegates. The
"Woman's Journal says, "Such funeral ser-
vices were never before rendered to any
man, because no such man has ever before
lived as William Loyd Garrison." The fu-
neral took place the 28th of May, in Dr.
Putnam's Church in Eliot Square. The pul-
pit was beautifully decorated with flowers,
and over all settled the calm that comes
with the sense of fitness and peace. Rev.
Samuel May, Lucy Stone, Samuel Johnson,
Theodore D. Wild and Wendall Phillips
were the speakers, and between the ad-
dreses the hymns were sung which Mr.
Garrison had loved to sing.


AN UNLUCKY MAN.—"You see," said
the despondent man on the pickle barrel
addressing the grocer, who was spearing
the top of a cracker box with a cheese
knife, "you see some people has good luck
and some people has bad luck. Now I re-
member once I was walking along the
street with Tom Jillicks, and he went down
on one side of it and I went down on the
other. We hadn't gone more'n half way
down when he found a pocket-book with
$261 in it, and I stepped on a woman's
dress and got acquainted with my present
wife. It was always so," he said with a 
sigh, that Tom Jillicks was the luckiest
man in the world and that I never had no
luck.—EX.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORT.

	LAKE TOWN, RICH CO., UTAH.
		April 29, 1879.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place was re-
organized Feb. 16, 1879, by our worthy
Bishop Ira Nebeker and counselors, with
the following officers:
	Mary Nebeker, President.
	Delia Nebeker,
	Louisa Hodges,	Counselors.
	Emma Pike,
	Harriet Lloyd,		Secretaries.
	Mary E. Findlay, Treasurer.
	Our Society numbers fifty-one members.
Although living in this Northern region
and not being overburdened with this
world's goods, the sisters are liberal and feel
willing to share what they have with those
who are in need. We can truly say our
President is a good woman and very punc-
tual in every duty. We have a general
meeting the first Monday in every month,
a teachers meeting the last Monday, and a
sewing meeting every alternate Thursday.
We are doing our best in helping to build
the Logan Temple and storing grain. We
would be pleased and we hope to see some
of our sisters who visit this Northern coun-
try visit Lake Town before the season is
over.
	Ever your sister in the Gospel,
		EMMA PIKE, Sec'y.

	WOODRUFF, RICH CO., April 28, 1879.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I am happy to forward you a satisfactory
report of the doings of the sisters at this 
place. Our Relief Society is in a flourish-
ing condition, considering the very adverse
circumstances with which we are surround-
ed. We are not so fortunate as a great
many of our sisters in older settlements
where the congeniality of the climate is
conducive to raising grain, sericulture, &c.;
we are in the center of a vast orchard of 
sagebrush, which seems determined to re-
sist all efforts at removal, still the brethren
are exercising every effort to raise grain,
and quite a large tract of this land is under
cultivation this year.
	The sisters deserve great praise for their 
indefatigable exertions to maintain their
place as a Society, and I am happy to state
their efforts have been crowned with suc-
cess. Not raising any grain here the atten-
tion of the brethren has been turned to
raising stock, and we have taken advantage
of it, in becoming possessed of calves, year-
lings, &c., to the number of twenty-five
head, which we propose to sell next fall
and buy wheat, that our granary may have
the appearance of plenty and a reign of 
peace.
	I feel to encourage the sisters in their 
efforts and to say, May God bless and pros-
per you in the good work, and attend
strictly to every requirement, and the Lord
will recognize in your works a desire to
love and serve Him; obey strictly the words
of wisdom, and your precept and example
will be sure of a reward. I feel to extend
this counsel to the sisters of other wards
similarly situated to us, as I know the value
and benefit of encouragement. And I feel,
in behalf of my sisters, to thank the EX-
PONENT for its marked encouragement and
counsel given from time to time, and the 
cheering words of comfort of which we
stand so much in need; and I feel like say-

[Column 2]

ing, May our Heavenly Father bless you in 
the good work in which you are engaged,
that under good counsel and guidance the
Relief Societies may ere long become an
active and not a latent force in Zion, that
the result of their labors may be felt
throughout the length and breadth of the
land when Zion shall "arise and put on her
beautiful garments, and the glory of God
be made manifest throughout the earth."
	May God bless you and all my sisters, is 
the prayer of your sister in the New and
Everlasting Covenant,
	HARRIET A. LEE, Pres't.

	PARLEY'S PARK, UTAH,
		April 16, 1879.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society was organized July
10, 1878, with the following officers: Maria
Workman President; Susanna Snyder, E.
Peterson, Counselors.
	We are a little settlement out to one side.
You may think it strange that we have not
sent in any report of our organization be-
fore; it was on account of our being scat-
tered so, and owing to the illness of our
President. We had to postpone our meet-
ings from Dec. 5th until April 10th. We
have commenced to do what we can towards
helping to build up the kingdom of God
upon the earth, by bringing up our children
to love and fear our Father in Heaven, by
obeying and keeping His commandments,
and by helping and doing good to one an-
other. We have been trying to collect a
little money and doing a little work in
other ways, so that we might be able to
contribute towards rolling on this mighty
work.
	We live in a place where we cannot raise
grain, or anything of that sort; we have to
buy our flour and potatoes, so we may not
be of much use in storing up grain, but we
hope to be of use in some way, and not a 
stumbling block. We hold our meetings
every two weeks, for the purpose of per-
forming our religions duties and doing
what work we can, for our meetings are
small, there being only thirteen members,
with an average attendance of eight. The
most of us have large families of children,
which take a great deal of our time. The
EXPONENT is an ever welcome visitor, and
read with interest by the sisters; we feel
to sustain you in your great work.
	I hope to ever remain your sister in the
Gospel of Truth,
	LIZZIE MCLANE, Sec'y.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

SUMMIT STAKE.

	Our second Quarterly Stake Conference
of the Relief Societies of this Stake of Zion
was held on Friday April 25, 1879, in Wan-
ship at "Youngs Hall" (kindly lent for the
occasion.) The conference convened at
10, a. m. and was opened with the usual
exercises. Sister S. S. Richards President,
Sisters Ann Cluff and Mary W, Reynolds
Counselors, Sister Rhead and Sisters
Stevenson and Frost of the Presidency
of the Y. L. M. I. Association of the
stake were present; as also President W.
W. Cluff, Bishops Salmon, Atwood, Mar-
chant and Stanley and others of the Priest-
hood by the Sisters invitation. The Relief
Societies of the Stake were all represented
by personal representatives except Almy
and Evanston Wards, from whom written
reports were received. Statistical and 
financial reports of the Societies were read.
Remarks were made by Sisters Richards
and Reynolds, upon our duties as Saints of
the Most High, and of the blessings acquir-
ed through faithfulness, and the sisters urg-
ed upon parents to train up their children
in the way they should go. A report of
the Y. L. M. I, Association was read by
Sister Lizzie Bull, and a few appropriate
remarks were made by President Eliza
Rhead. Conference acjourned till 2, p. m
	Afternoon Session:—The Conference was
opened in the usual manner. The condi-
tion of the various ward societies were giv-
en verbally by the presidents or other
proper representatives, all of which were
represented to be in favorable condition
and good standing.
	The Stake officers of the organization
were put before the Conference and unani-
mously sustained, as were also the Presi-
dents and Counselors of the various ward
societies. Appropriate remarks were made
by Pres. Cluff, Bishops Atwood, Marchant
and Stanley. They expressed their admira-
tion of the business-like manner in which
the Conference was conducted.
	On motion it was agreed that our Con-
ference hereafter be held semi-annually.
	The following report statistical and
financial, of the various societies compris-
ing the stake orgsnization from their first
organization embodying a period of eleven
years for some, and three and four years
for others were read.

STATISTICAL.

Teachers...............................................   73
Members.............................................. 317
Total officers and members...............419
Meetings held...................................... 396
Average attendance............................   49
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.........................   53

FINANCIAL.

	Receipts:
Cash................................................$1285 56
Property..........................................  2542 52
Wheat..............................................470 ½ bu.
Disbursed to the poor................... 1428 00
Emigration......................................      71 00
Temple............................................    406 63
Home industries............................    559 41
Books..............................................    191 53
Missionary......................................      80 50
Indians............................................      16 56
Building..........................................     435 38

	Our Conference was well attended, a gen-
eral good feeling prevailed, and it was a
very enjoyable time to all present.
					J. S. BOYDEN, Sec'y


WHY WOMEN MARRY ELDERLY MEN.—
It is said that money is not so often the
reason why young women marry elderly
men as people imagine. She says the young
man of the day is not the desirable husband
that the young man of fifty years ago was;
he is not so thoughtful, sober, pains-taking
and conscientious; he lives in a club, has
no love of home life nor desire to build up
character and reputation as a man and citi-
zen; his ideas are bounded by a theatre and
the doings of his little set; and on too
many occasions his ambition is to race and
be on intimate terms with the ballet. Na-
turally, mothers shrink from intrusting
their daughters to such youths as these,
even if they have the opportunity, and are
better pleased to bestow them upon older
men—men who know how little of real
value there is in the temporary excitement
of pleasure; who have, perhaps, been mar-
ried once, and have learned to value home
and the guarantees it affords for permanent
happiness.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A WOMAN.

When something must be done 'tis clear
That very broad is woman's sphere,
How broad, none e'er will know I fear
				Except, a woman, 
Who labors from the dawn of day,
Long past the sunsets latest ray,
And always at her post must stay,
						A woman.
By whom a thousand duties done,
Patiently, wisely, one by one—
Though weary oft, neglected none,
						A woman.
A need of rest she ne'er must feel,
Or change, her nerves are made of steel,
Because she is—Oh direfull ill!
						A woman.
“Lords of Creation!” must be free,
Exempt from care of progeny,
Responsible of course must be—,
						A woman.
The first in life, the last in death,
From the first feeble, fluttering breath,—
Unto the end, who suffereth?
						A woman.
The first and last to sorrow share.
Bearing contagion, scorning care,
Who tends the suffering everywhere?
						A woman.
From the Creations earliest dawn,
When mother Eve was in the wrong,
All kinds of sin, is put upon—
						A woman.
So quickly tarnished is her name,
Yet she alone must bear the shame,
And every one is sure to blame—
						A woman.
Some retribution there must be,
Some so call’d men will never see,
Throughout a long Eternity—
						A woman.
Ungrateful from their very birth—
They never prized their mothers worth,
To them a theme, for jest or mirth—
						A woman;
I class not all, upon this list,
Good men are rare, but they exist,
Good men will always dare assist—
						A woman.
A man! protects a feebler thing,
A man! is nobler than a king,
To such a man! will always cling—
						A woman.
’Tis Woman’s right! her nature to
Appreciate the brave and true,
No serf is he that's helpful to
						A woman.
’Tis Woman's right! with man to share
Reward and rest, as well as care,
Not generous this, but just and fair
						To woman.
			EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.


[Column 1]		
[For the EXPONENT.
	THOUGHTS ON THE POETS;
	The Poets!—say the prophets, for they
are Gemini, i.e. “the Twins.” The poetical
tempe[-]ament is ever prophetic—read the
highest and the best and you will know it.
Isaiah, Ezekiel, David, Solomon and other
biblical characters, were of the highest order
of poets, of whom, like many others of
their brethren, “the world was not worthy.”
	But it is of modern poets, i. e. within the
last few centuries, that I have been think-
ing about and wish now to say a few words
upon; but when I look upon the small space
I must unavoidably occupy, I feel I can
scarcely condense that which would fill
volumes. I will premise that it must ever
be a poet to judge the poets! that complex
nature can only be judged righteously by an
affinity. Lot us for a moment try and de-
fine. the “make up” of the poet nature.
Take a being of our kind, bestow a stronger
imagination and a more delicate sensibility,

[Column 2]
which two will engender a temperament
quick to feel and keen to suffer, and a spe-
cies of martyrdom will be their entrance
into the Temple of Parnassus—and it should
ever be borne in mind that the question, or
the criteria, is not what certain beings are
called upon to suffer, but how they are
formed to bear. In the crude, impromptu
judgment of the would-be “Daniels,” who
so flippantly take that responsible position,
all this is never thought of, or entirely ig-
nored. Persons of common-place minds,
who have no comprehension of the high
vocation of the poets, who have no soul to
soar, or capability to delve with them, or
understand their high office, or their com-
plex nature—yet these, these take the judg-
ment seat, pass the verdict, and believe
their decision is oracular! “Angels and
ministers of grace defend” the poets from
such a “court.” I would like to quote Ten-
nyson’s biting words on such, but I have
not room; suffice they are written. It
seems the highest order of poets had to be
“broken on the wheel” to bring out the
glory of their gift. Tasso, Byron, Shelley,
Pope, Cowper, these and many more were
among the martyrologies—their biographies
are before the world, and fine lessons are to
be derived therefrom.
	Now, like Banquo’s ghosts, let us pass in
review before our mental vision a few of
those gifted beings. W[-] will first take
Goldsmith. Who has not read his “Vicar of
Wakefield?” the original of which was his
own dear father. “The Village Schoolmas-
ter” is drawn from his own early teacher,
and the leading incident in “She stoops to
Conquer” was his own adventure. He had
a great desire for foreign travel, but being
very poor he had not the means; he there-
fore decided, and actually accomplished, a
tour on foot through Holland, France, Ger-
many and Italy; and no doubt these wan-
derings imparted great interest to his writ-
ings. He had no companion but his flute,
which often procured him a night’s lodging,
food and friends. In this way he wandered
over those fair lands, hallowed by past
associations and existent beauty. Observa-
tion was ever his tutor, and by that his
muso was cultivated and his character
formed. He ever carried out the glorious
mission of the poet—that of elevating and
purifying human naturo and alleviating”
“the thousand ills that flesh Is heir to,” as
far as in him lay, and illustrating one of the
beautiful aphorisms of our Savior, that “the
children of this world are, in their genera
tion, wiser than the children of light.”
He took but little thought of the bread that
perisheth, but was one of those beings who
ever d[-]ew around him friends whoso heart
and purse were his when needed; but in
later life his writings and his reputation
earned him a competency, and his friends
were legion.
	Gray was a profound scholar educated in
that most ancient seat of learning Cam-
bridge, England—his life seems to have
been dovoted to the muses and a soreno
enjoymont of life—and had he never writ-
ten anything but his “Elegy in a Country
Church Yard” it would have made his
name immortal. He seems to have had
but two beings on earth whom he loved,
his mother and his college friend, Richard
West. His mother had boon his teach[-]r
and friend, and to her he owed all the
happy associations of his young life. His
friend died young. Gray’s last letter was
returned to him unopened! the cherished
one to whom it was addressed had passed
away. After the disease of his mother he
could never r[-]fer to her without tears—and
by these losses he declared two of the

[Column 3]
sweetest ties of life were broken; and on
her tomb—after speaking of her goodness,
to her children, he adds “One of whom had
the misfortune to survive her.”
	Collins was a poet of great death of feel-
ing, susceptibility, and a beautiful insight
into the workings of the human mind; de-
lineated in his “Ode to the Passions,” his
early life was singularly important, and his
first and only love unrequited. His life
began and ended in sorrow and affliction.
	Pope! Alexander Pope! Born in obscurity,
feeble in frame, deformed in person; yet
that mighty' mind sot all these at defiance,
assumed the reins of his education, and
resolutely launched into the profession of a
poet. He was a wonderful evidence of the
power of mind. Blighted in form, braced
in canvass to hold him upright, and almost
every infirmity, yet he became the terror
of his foes, the envy of his rivals, and the
admiration of his friends. He wielded a
pen whose caustic satire was amply able to
minister either to his self-defense or his re-
venge. In the street he was an object of
pity; at his desk a king. His eyes were
singularly expressive, and his voice uncom-
monly melodious. His talents and reputa-
tion long secured him the society and pro-
fessed friendship of the most brilliant wo-
men of the day, and obtained for him the
faithful care and companionship of Martha
Blount. In reading Pope wo are not carried
away in a torrent of passion as in Byron,
nor molted by a natural sentiment as in
Burns, norexalted by grand imagery as in
Milton. His rationality is approved by our
understanding, but the citadel of the soul
is uninvaded. “The Rape of the Lock,”
has ever boen considered his most charac-
teristic production, and is brilliant and
striking; a trivial incident in fashion,
ablo life engendered it. “The dying
Christian to his Soul” is a sweet and
thrilling production, but there is little in
his poetry that seems the offspring of emo-
tion. His afflictions must have been fatal
to all that inspires emotional poetry, and
every one with an appreciative mind read-
ing will realize how transcendant must
have been that mind that raised him from
all these obvious disadvantages, into a re-
gion where he was the admired, the courted,
the fascinating, I had almost said the demi-
god! Well, I have not time to study out a
more appropriate term. All that desire
can receive it with limitations! Even
Lady Mary W. Montague, the most beauti-
ful and accomplished woman of her day, or
almost any day, was one of his devoted
friends, and their friendship almost become
a love affair. Y[-]t withal Pope was cynical
to his associates, and to women especially.
But they sprung the mine, and he lashed
them with rhyme, without reason, but to
use his own words, “All mankind’s concern
is charity” Let us drug our memories
when we would pass judgment on our
fellow creatures.
		To be continued


MISCELLANIOUS.

	PERSONS WHO work late at night and
are after troubled with sleeplessness, a 
light supper before going to bed is a cer-
tain cure.

	A CERTAIN lawyer was compelled to
apologize to the court. With stately dig-
ninty he rose in his place and said: Your
Honor is right and I am wrong, as Your
Honor generally is? There was a dazed
look in the Judge's eye, and he hardly
knew whether to feel happy, or fine the
lawyer for contempt of court.—EX.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - - - Editor.
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JUNE 15, 1879.


EARLY EDUCATION.
In the present day much is said and written
of the principles taught in early life. Wo know
the early training has a direct bearing upon
the cbiid. Few young people, when they enter
upon their married life, realize this subject as
they ought. It is only In maturer years, when
all the mischief has been done, that people
actually comprehend the truth in regard to the
matter. But with the higher education of this
age, and the larger development in spheres of
usefulness, the training of the little ones
should form a moat important feature. And
attempt to draw the line as one may, the re-
sponsibility must and does fall more heavily
upon the mother. A thousand proofs could be
brought forward to substantiate this assertion;
yet the father Is not exempt, and should cer-
tainly use all the means in his power to make
the condition of the mother a happy one, and
her task delightful, instead of irksome; and to
relieve her occasionally, as far as possible, that
her health might not suffer under the accumu-
lation of cares, and for want of fresh air. and
a little change of scene. But O, how many
mothers there are in this free land who are per-
fect Blavee, and so tired and weary do they be-
come, that they have no vigor, or inspiration,
to help them bear their weary burdens. If'this
could be remedied, if there was more real,
genuine Jove and less selfishness, how much
easier would the routine ot woman’s daily life
become.
But accepting such conditions as exist, let us
go back to early education. Granted that it is
the most permanent in its nature, then how
careful should parents be to begin aright." The
earliest Impressions are indelibly engraven up-
on the human heart, and the characteristics of
individuals are quite as much the result of
early discipline as of Inherent faculties. How
many gifted children have grown up weak in
all that weuld make them useful members of
society, because they have never been taught
the necessity of application and perseverance
under difficulties, consequently they become
unrellant and vacillating, often despondent,
and are more or less a hindrance instead of a
help wherever they may be.
Too much pains cannot be taken in the home
education of children. There are many little
essons to teach them as soon as their powers
begin to expand, long before they can be taught
the alphabet, and one thing which is greatly
neglected by parents is the’ manners of the
children.
Politeness should form an essential part of
the early education. It is always and every-
where a recommendation, and if it Is neglected
in childhood, it is very difficult to acquire after,
wards; will need some persistency of effort
at all events, Thi people desire to have their
children instructed In everything that will re-
fine them; then they must not wait until they
are half-grown heforo they teach them the sim-
ple rules of politeness and Initiate them into
that gracefulness of manner that will make
them pleasing on all occasions. There Is al-
most always a natural grace that children are
born with, and if this is cultivated, instead of
allowing them to grow into awkwardne?a
through their manner of treatment, it would
render thorn much more attractive. Politeness
is a delicate subject to treat upon, but it is
one thatehould be studied. It may be said
the children only follow the exnmplo of the
oldor ones, and this is true, but If parents Want,
their children to become like unto polished
stones they must commence fo teach them
early, both by example and precept.
 Modesty is a quality that should be instilled
into the minds of children, and It requires a
vast amount of tact to so discipline children
that modesty will be blended with politeness,
and a quiet grace of manner, in such a way
that they may not be too forward or too indif-
ferent. Wo hear a great deal about the modei-
ty of little girls, but it would be well if this
was also considered a requisite characteristic
In the training of boys. How much more
charming would little boys be If they were as
carefully Instructed to be modest as girls
usually are. In too many Instances mothers
are not so watchful over their boys as girls: “O
he’s a boy, It does not matter so much,” wo
have often heard, but it does matter just as
much what companions he has, what his hab-
its are, and what his behavior is. “Oh, boys are
so rude and coarse,” mothers often say; well,
then, don’t send them out of your sight because
It annoys you, and let them be thrown into the
society of other boys who throng the street?
and alleys, and who have not had the training
and the love you can give your boys.but watch
over them a? cautiously and be as judicious In
regard to them as you are with your girls.
They are Just as much yourespecial care, and
if mothers would do this there would be fewer
complaints of bad boys in the streets.
Children are a heritage from the Lord, in the
language of Scripture, but too often in the
rearing of children it is not considered, and
they are suffered to grow up with very little
knowledge and irregular discipline, and their
little feet wander into by and forbidden paths,
and before the parents are scarcely aware of it,
evil habits are formed that It takes efficient
effort to correct. How few young women en-
ter upon the duties of married life with mature
thought upon the subject of motherhood; and
yet it is the grandest, noble3t and most soul-
inspiring theme, for it lays at the very founda-
tion of life and happiness, and needs the high-
est education as well as the moat favorable
surroundings possible, in order to develop the
best and holiest tendencies.
 Motherhood and its duties, with the early
training of the little ones, is a subject which
women should more wisely aud fully consider,
for it is a vocation in which more women fail
than In any other. And oh, to fail as a mother
how terrible the conseqlittlees. What greater 
encomium of praise can be conferred upon a
woman than that of being a loving, tender,
prudent and wise mother, that has reared chil-
dren in the principles of truth, honesty
integrity, and the fear of God?


[Column 1]
		HOME AFFAIRS.

	SURPRISE PARTY.--A few sisters met at the
residence of Sister Vienna Jacques on Tues-
day, June 10, bringing with them a bountiful
supply of good things for the table, to celebrat[-]

[Column 2]
the birthday of this aged sister. Miss Vienna
Jacques was ninety-two years of age on that
day.  The company enjoyed themselves in
conversation and reading, and as Sister Jacques
is well versed in the early history of the
Church, she rehearsed for their benefit many
incidents that were interesting. She read
them a letter of four pages written to her by
the Prophet Joseph.
	THE RELIEF Society and Young Ladies
Conference of this Stake of Zion will be held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms Fri-
day and Saturday, June 20 and 21, commencing
at 10 o'clock a. m. on Friday. It is hoped the
ss[-]sters will be punctual in attending, as there
are several subjects of importance to lay before
them. An invitation is cordially extended by
the ladies to the brethren, to President John
Taylor and the Apostles, to Bishop Hunter and
his counselors, to Pres. Angus M. Cannon and
Counselors, and to Bishops of wards, hoping
that some of them will find time to attend.
The Primary Associations will be expected to
send reports to this Conference.
	MAX STRAKOSCH'S opera has visited Salt
Lake and given two performances, Saturday
and Monday, evenings, June 7 and 9. Litta,
and Anna Louise Cary, with their fine, rich
voices were the great attraction. People went
to see and hear these celebrated singers, whose
fine musical talents have made them famous.
On each occasion only parts of operas were
given, which was simply absurd, for there is
not a place of its size in the world where the
finest music is better appreciated than in this
city.  The mad scene from "Lucia" was exqui-
sitely rendered on Monday evening by Litta.
Indeed, both ladies have charming voices.
There should, however, have been a full or-
chestra and an entire opera to satisfy the audi-
ence.
	MADAME BROLOWKY'S lecture in the Inde
pendence Hall on Sunday evening, June 8, was
well attended. Her subject was Russia, Poland
and the Siberian exile, with personal reminis-
ences. It was interesting throughout, and
some parts were humorous, which added to
the entertainment. Her foreign accent was
appropriate to the subject and made one feel
more impressed with the sketches she drew of
the people of those countries. By request of
the lady, "America" was sung at the close of
the lecture, and on motion of Prof. Benner the
lady was invited to speak again at the same
place. She announced as her subject The Cos-
sacks and her own personal experiences.
	We have had the pleasure of receiving one
or two calls from Madame Brolowky, and
found her extremely entertaining in conversa-
tion on all general subjects, bnt more especially
upon medicine and anatomy, which are her
favorite themes. The lady graduated in these
sciences at Zurich in Switzerland.
	THE QUARTERLY Conference of the Y. M.
and Y. L. Improvement Associations was held
in the Farmington Meeting House, Sunday,
May 18, commencing at 10 o'clock a. m. It
was a conjoint meeting, the officers of both As-
sociations occupying the stand. The reports
from various branches were very creditable,
and indicated that rapid improvement is being
made among the young people of both sexes.
One thing noticeable and very gratifying is the
efforts they are making to secure libraries of
good and useful books. Excellent and enter-
taining addresses were given in a pleasing
manner by Pres. Roberts, Eld[-]r Wm. S. Bur-
ton, Territorial Pres. J. F. W[-]lls, and others.
Pres. Wm. Smith spoke very strongly upon
the importance of serving God, and Counselor


Anson Call made a few remarks, in which he
highly commended the manner of conducting
the meeting, uniting together men and women.
Said it was the first meeting he had attended
where women had been allowed to have equal
privileges and rights. Pres. Clark and other
ladies made very good and suitable remarks;
also Mrs. E S. Taylor and Mrs. E. B. Wells of
Salt Lake Lake City.

	ON MONDAY evening, June 16, the drama
“Two orphans” will be performed in the Salt
Lake Theatre, by a company composed of am-
ateurs and professionals, who have kindly con-
sented to take part on this occasion in consid-
eration of its being a complimentary benefit to
Miss Asenath A. Adams, a favorite upon the
Salt Lake stage in former days, and who is here
now on a visit. The lady amateurs who are to
take part are Miss Keetia Heywood, Miss
Annie Wells; the gentlemen, Messrs. L. A,
Cummings, O. F. Whitney, J. D. White, John
D. Spencer, Hebe M. Wells, Frank D. Kimball,
H. G. Whitney, J. McCurdy and J. Hill. Miss
Adams will enact Louise, Mrs. Della Cum-
mings, Henriette; Mrs. Harris, Marianne;
Edith Clawson, Florette; and little Maud
Adams, the little market girl. Besides these,
W. T. Harris will enact the character of La
Frochard, the old beggar woman, and Messrs.
Olsen, Evans and Riser, of the theatrical com-
pany, will appear. Rehearsals and other pre-
parations are being made to insure success. We
cannot but think, knowing so well the ability
and tact of these amateurs and the talent of the
professionals, that the performance will be a
decided success, and as the amateurs, or most
of them are numbered among our relatives and
particular friends, we most heartily wish it,
also for the sake of Miss Adams, in whose honor
the benefit is politely tendered.

	THE SISTERS who are active in organizing
societies among the Latter day Saint women
and children have been busily engaged of late
in visiting in wards and settlements, and en-
couraging the people to improve in wisdom
and knowledge and grow in grace. Sisters E.
R. Snow and M. I. Horne left this city Wed-
nesday, May 14, and made rather an extended
tour, visiting the principal places in Juab,
Sanpete and Sevier Counties. At Nephi they
held a special meeting, and organized a Silk
Association in Juab Stake. At Fountain Green
they were met by Sister Mary Ann Hyde of
Spring City, Pres. of R. S. of Sanpete Stake,
who traveled with them through that county.
They also organized a Silk Association in that
Stake. Sister Anna Irons also joined their
party at Moroni. All these ladies are efficient
workers in the good cause of progression and
improvement, and no doubt they have been
the means of doing great good, in stimulating
and inspiring to good works those who are
more remote from the centre Stake of Zion.
The ladles reached Richfield in time to attend
the Stake Conference, and there, under the
auspices of Pres. Spencer, they effected a Re-
lief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. organization for
Sevier Stake. In all they held twenty-eight
meetings, all well attended. Eight Primary
Associations were organized, and the Associa-
tion at Pleasant Grove re-organized.

	OLD FOLKS EXCURSION: On Tuesday, June
24th there is to be an excursion for the old peo-
ple of this city from 70 years old and upwards.
The place of destination this time is American
Fork. An invitation is extended to all, and
the Bishops and Presidents of Relief Societies
will see that in their respective wards no one is
passed by without receiving an invitation. We
hope and trust that all things may be propitious,
and that it may be an enjoyable time for the

participators. It is certainly commendable in
those who were instrumental in introducing
this custom. To give enjoyment, recreation
and pleasure to the aged, is pleasing to God and
to all good people. A holiday with a ride on
the cars, music, and other sources of enter-
tainment must be a relief from the monotony
of every-day life to those who cannot engage
in active pursuits and must necessarily be oft-
times lonely and to many the days drag wear-
ily along. Give honor to the aged and infirm,
and reverence those whose days of usefulness
are nearly at an end, lighten their hearts as
much as possible. May the day's enjoyment
exceed the anticipation of all those for whom
the excursion was given.

	ON THE morning of April 30, in company
with Sister Eliza R. Snow we left this city in-
tending to visit Malad Valley. The same af-
ternoon we attended quite a large meeting of
the Relief Society in Brigham City. We learn-
ed from the sisters there that the children of
the Primary Association have a full lot planted
with white beans, which they expect to store
up. Mrs. Mary Stark of that place is skilled in
the art of making artificial flowers, and teach-
es classes; if there are any young ladies, desir-
ous of promoting this beautiful department of
home industry, they should take lessons from
Mrs. Stark, who understands the business
thoroughly, and takes pleasure in teaching it.
May Day morning, with Sisters E. R. Snow
and H. A. Snow we proceeded on our way by
train to Hampton Station. At the station El-
der Jarvis Mansfield met our party with a car-
riage and as there was another carriage load of
ladies from Brigham City, it made quite a
large and pleasant party. Just after leaving
Hampton Station the road makes a narrow cut
around a corner of the mountain termed a
dugway, and just below lies a small, green vale
where a farm has been made and house built
quite alone where weary travelers may find,
food and rest.
	We soon passed over Bear River, and drove
over such a barren waste of country, scarce
anything to be seen but grease wood and sage-
brush for some miles; the only attraction be-
ing the mountains in the distance. We past
through Plymouth, and at East Portage we
stopped and took dinner at Brother Mans-
field's, then drove on to West Portage, where
Bishop Hoskins and family with true Western
hospitality received us all cordially. A meet-
ing had been appointed at 4 o'clock p.m. It
was well attended by brethren and sisters, and
an appointment given out to organize a Primary
association next morning. According to the
notice given the children met together, the
Bishop and Counselors and as many people as
could gain admittance, and“Sister Eliza" organ-
ized the Primary Association. Emma Halford
was elected President, Jane Hall and Emma
Landon, Counselors, Miss Matilda Gibbs Sec-
retary, and Miss Almira Hall Treasurer. Fifty-
nine children were then sustained as members.
Another general meeting was hold in the af-
ternoon, all were well attended; our party
while there were kindly entertained at the
Blshop’s and Elder John D. Gibbs.
	On Saturday morning the two carriage loads
of us wended our way towards Malad. The
day was a very cold one, consequently we could 
not admire the scenery, the wind was very
high, and altogether the morning ride was a
very unpleasant one. However Brother Mans-
field pointed out all the principal points of in-
terest and showed us the land mark that di-
vided the Territories of Utah and Idaho. We
stopped at Samaria and dined at Mrs. Evans,
and although we were unexpected guests, the
excellent dinner of chicken, vegetables, hot

biscuit and other luxuries was hastily prepared
and served, of which we all partook with a
good relish after the cold ride, and we were
very soon again on our way; reached Malad
about two o'clock and were met and welcomed
by Bishop Dunford. The Relief Society con-
ference commenced at three o'clock in the
meeting-house, which had been very beauti-
fully decorated for the occasion with ever-
greens, and with artifical flowers, made by the
sisters; it looked quite refreshing after our long
cold ride. Many brethren and sisters were
present from other settlements; and the meet-
ings were crowded. The conference continued
two days. Sunday evening the Relief Society
of Malad was reorganized. Mrs. Ann Sawyer
was elected President, Jane Williams and Es-
ther Lusk Counselors, Elizabeth W. Jenkins,
Secretary and Anna E. Thomas, Treasurer. On
Monday morning, accompanied by Bishop
Dunford and others from Malad, our party vis-
ited St. John’s and held meeting at 10 o'clock,
in the school-house, and “Sister Eliza" organized
the children in a Primary Association. Han-
nah James was elected President, Emily Kent
and Ann C. Jones Counselors, Mary Ann Dud-
ley Secretary, David C. Jones, Assistant Secre-
tary, Elizabeth Darnings, Treasurer. Twenty-
six children were enrolled. Pres. Lewis Lewis
has charge of the branch, and manifested great
interest in the organization, and informed us
that in that small settlement there were over
50 children under eight years of age. We all
returned to Malad and at 4 o’clock held another
meeting and “Sister Eliza” organized the Pri-
mary Association of that place. Mary Jane
Evans was elected President, Elvira Reese and
Mary Bolingbroke, Counselors, Alice Evans,
Secretary, Edward Colton Assistant Secretary,
Catharine Price, Treasurer.
	Tuesday morning drove over to Samaria,
where a meeting was hold In the afternoon to
organize a Primary Association. Amy S. Davis
was elected President, Emeline E. Thomas
and Mary A. Hughes, Counselors, Rose Crab-
tree, Secretary, John H. Davis Assistant Sec-
retary, George Davis, Treasurer. In the even-
ing there was a general meeting, the house was
filled. Samaria is a thriving town, and the
people have the advantage there of a good
supply of water for the land, but the grasshop-
pers are very thick in Malad Valley this year.
Samaria contains 55 families of Latter-day
Saints, including 500 persons, and in the last
ten years there have been only twelve deaths:
three of these died of old age.
	Early on Wednesday morning our party
drove over to Cherry Creek, where two meet-
ings were held, Relief Society meeting in the
morning, at which time the Society was
reorganized, under the direction of Bishop Dun-
ford and President Jones, who has charge of
the Cherry Creek Branch. Mrs. Sarah J.
Dudley was sustained as President, Mary Jones
and Elizabeth Chivers, Counselors, Sarah A.
Jones, Secretary, Emily Reese, Treasurer. In
the afternoon “Sister Eliza” organized the
Primary Association. Sarah Ann Jones was
elected President, Catherine Jones and Mar-
garet Chivers, Counselors, Christopher M.
Gardner, Secretary, Joanna Williams Assistant
Secretary, Edwin Williams Treasurer; 17 mem-
bers enrolled.
	Immediately after the meeting the party
wended their way towards East Portage. There
were people from all the settlements round,
Bishops and brethren as well as sisters, who
all seemed delighted with the sisters' meetings.
This ride was a very pleasant one, the day was
fine and the country looked beautiful, notwith
standing the havoc of the grasshoppers. Large
verdant meadows, yellow with buttercups,
variegated with daises and redbells, and


stretching away in the distance, the fields of
wheat, oats, and corn, and more abundant
than all these patches of luxuriant lucerne.
Scattered along the road, a few miles apart are
Willow Springs, Anderson Creek, Oregon
Springs and Allen String Settlements. Bro.
Mansfield pointed out the old town of Portage
where the people first tried to build up the
town. Showed us the trail from one chain of
mountains to the other across the entire valley,
where the Shoshone Indians have been accus-
tomed to travel ever since the country was
settled by the Mormons.
	At East Portage a general meeting was
held in the school-house, well attended. The
school-house stands quite alone, almost under
the brow of the high mountain. The settle-
ment is quite scattered, as most of these small
places in the country are. In the morning
Brother Mansfield showed us over his grounds,
which are very pleasant, a little artificial lake
formed from springs near his house, with young
trees growing near, was quite charming in
this almost wild country. The mountain
scenery everywhere is grand, and to us it is
ever a rest and relief, there is always some-
thing sublime in gazing at these wonderful
Rocky Mountains. Bro. and Sister Mansfield
entertained six of us strong-minded women,
and certainly we should remember their kind-
ness in taking three of us in their carriage from
Hampton Station all over Malad Valley and
bringing us so far on our way home. Every-
where we went we found the people more than
glad to see the ladies and hear them talk.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.

	During the past week quite a gloom has been
cast over the sisters here at Paris through the
death of Sister Matilda Price, wife of Bishop
Robert Price of the 2d Ward of this place. On
Sunday last she was in her usual health until
the evening of that day, when she was sud-
denly taken sick, and in less than twenty-four
hours expired, surrounded by her family and
many friends who deeply feel her loss.
	The funeral took place on Tuesday, when
Presidents C. C. Rich and Geo. Osmond gave
some very encouraging and comforting words
of instruction to the many friends who had as-
sembled to pay their last respects to the re-
mains of Sister Price—and also an infant son of
Bro. John T. Rich of this town, who was
buried at the same time.
	Sister Price was born on the 25th of March,
1833; embraced the Gospel in England about
1850; married in the fall of 1853, and in the
same year emigrated to Utah. She has been
identified with the Relief Society of this place
ever since it has been organized, and at the
time of her death held the office of President
of the Teachers of the 2d Ward Relief Society;
and, from the time of her embracing the Gos-
pel, has lived a good and faithful Latter-day
Saint.						E. M. S.


WE can do more good by being good
than in any other way.—Rowland Hill.

	I KNOW nothing which life has to offer so
satisfying as the profound good under-
standing which can subsist, after much ex-
change of good offices, between two vir-
tuous men, each of whom is sure of him-
self and sure of his friend.—R. W. Emer-
son.

	Two ladies presented themselves at the
door of a fancy-ball, and, on being asked
by the usher what characters they per-
sonated, replied that they were not in
special costume; whereupon he bawled out,
"Two ladies without any character."


[Column 1]
FOREIGN NOTES.

	LIBERTON.—The election of the School
Board for Liberton took place in March.
Miss Redpath, a late member of the late
Board, was re-elected. Miss Burton and
other ladies worked assiduously in her be-
half.
	EDINBURGH.—The triennial election of
the members of the School Board took
place last month. The contest turned prin-
cipally on Church questions with regard to
the men candidates, but Miss Blyth and
Miss Stevenson, who have been members
of the two previous Boards (since 1873),
were re-elected.—Ex.

	WOMEN IN THE ORDER OF GOOD TEM-
PLARS.—We have often already had occa-
sion to notice that women are equally eligi-
ble with men to fill all the offices of this
large and far-reaching Association. At
the Annual Session held in Hull during
Easter week, Miss Helena Richardson, a
member of the Bristol School Board, was
elected Grand Worthy Vice Templar of the
Order of Good Templars. Miss Hannah
Young of Colesley, Stratfordshire, was ap-
pointed Grand Superintendent of the juve-
nile portion of the Order; Mrs. Boys of
Petersfield was appointed Assistant Grand
Worthy Secretary, and Mrs. Walshaw, of
Halifax, Deputy Grand Marshal.—Ex.

	THE FIFTH winter session of the London
School of Medicine for Women, closed on
the 31st of last March. Twenty-eight stu-
dents in all attended the school and hos-
pital, of whom eight were first year's
students. Lectures on anatomy, chemis-
try, physiology, practice of medicine, prac-
tice of surgery, and a course of practical
anatomy with demonstrations, were given
at the school, and clinical instruction, and
lectures on clinical medicine, and clinical
surgery, at the hospital. The summer ses-
sion opened on May 1. Lectures on botany,
chemistry, Forensic medicine, midwifery,
and diseases of women, pathology, and
zoology, are given, and ladies who are not
medical students may be admitted as occa-
sional students.

	THE ANNUAL Meeting of the Central
Committee of the National Society for Wo-
men's Suffrage was held in Willis's Rooms,
London, on May 9. A business meeting
took place at 3 o'clock p. m.; after which
the public meeting began Mr. Leonard
Courtney, M. P., took the chair. Mrs. P.
A. Taylor, Miss Cobden, Rev. Brook Lam-
bert, Sir D. Wedderburn, M. P., Mrs. Hal-
let, &c., were among the speakers.
	Lectures have been given on this subject
within the last month at Gravesend, Roch-
ester, Canterbury, Ashford and Tonbridge.
	A large and influential drawing-room
meeting was held at the house of Mrs.
Thos. Taylor, Hyde Park Gardens, W., on
May 12, and another on May 14, by Vis-
countess Harberton, 119, Cromwell Road.
At both the question was discussed by ad-
vocates and opponents. There is every
hope that the suffrage work will be carried
on successfully, and widely extended dur-
ing the next year.

	ON APRIL 29, the annual tea and soiree
of the National Union of Working Women
was held at the Star coffee-house, Old Mar-
ket Street, when upwards of a hundred
members and friends assembled. The fol-
lowing ladies and gentlemen were present:
Mrs. Beddoe (who presided), the Misses
Beddoe, Mrs. Hargrave, the Misses Priest-
man, Miss K. Blage, Miss Sturge, Mrs.
Greenwell, Miss Merrick, Mr. Alan Green-

[Column 2]
well, M. A., Rev. Mr. Hargrave, Mr.
Brown, Mr. Jones, &c.
	Mr. Alan Greenwell expressed his grati-
fication at seeing so many present, and
pointed out the necessity of women com-
bining for mutual benefit the same as men.
In case of being out of work, in case of
sickness or death, by being members of
that association they would have something
to fall back upon in time of need. Benefit
societies for females were calculated to do a
vast amount of good. Co-operating one
with another would certainly tend to their
advancement, and the indifference to union,
heretofore displayed, was the greatest hin-
drance to woman's progress. Mr. Green-
well expressed his astonishment at the apa-
thy—or rather want of thought—manifested
by Trades Unionists and men belonging to
Friendly Societies, in not inducing, in
greater numbers, their wives and sisters to
partake of the advantages offered by the
National Union of Working Women.
	The Rev. W. Hargrave said it was the
duty of working women to join associations
for not only would their connection there-
with tend to woman's social benefit, but
create those grand feelings of self-reliance
and independence, nay, save her in many
cases from great degradation—the parish
workhouse.—Ex.


WORKING WOMEN IN LONDON.

	To give our readers an idea of the condi-
tion of working women in London, we copy
from the “English Woman’s Review” an
account of a crowded meeting of working
women belonging to the Pimlico Army
Clothing Factory, held on the evening of
April 16, 1879, in the Portcullis Hall, West-
minster, Mr. Hodgson Pratt, Chairman,
who invited any of the women present to
state all facts concerning the reduction of
wages. Without giving full particulars of
prices, etc., we will say the reduction was
such that they determined to memorialize
the Secretary of War for and see if any
change could be made by which they could
subsist by their hard work. In setting
forth their grievances in the Memorial they
state, that while they suffered from a re-
duction of wages, and also from not being
allowed to take work home as formerly, the
salaries of certain officers of the establish-
ment had been increased. Signed on be-
half of a meeting of upwards of 700 wo-
men and at their unanimous request, by
the Chairman, Hodgson Pratt, late member
of the Indian Civil Service.
	“Nearly one thousand female machine
workers assembled in the vicinity of West-
minster Palace the following afternoon,
previous to the re-assembling of the mem-
bers of the House of Commons after the
Easter recess, the object of the promoters
being to represent their grievances with re-
spect to the recent reduction of wages,
which affects about 1,500 persons. The
proposed formation of a procession having
been forbidden by the police, who were sta-
tioned in the street in extra force, it was
necessary to hold a consultation as to the
mode of procedure. Again the Portcullis
Hall was hastily engaged, and at once filled.
The general opinion of the meeting was
that it would be well to appear at the House
of Commons, with a view of enlightening
the members of Parliament generally as to
the large number of women affected by the
reductions. It was accordingly agreed that
the House should be reached in irregular
procession, the party separating and taking
different streets on the route. By half-past
4 o’clock the large deputation met at the


gates of Palace Yard, which were guarded
by a strong body of police. The women
were sent by the police to the opposite side
of the road. There they remained in solid
ranks seven and eight deep, a most orderly
crowd, for nearly an hour, while six of their
number with the Rev. Stewart D. Head-
lam, Mr. Harper, and Mr. and Mrs. Pater-
son, gained admission to the outer lobby of
the House, and interviewed Sir Charles
Dilke, Mr. Leonard Courtney and Mr. Dil-
wyn, who expressed their sympathy and
promised to give any help in their power
when the subject should be brought before
the notice of Parliament. The deputation
stated their grievances at some length. It
was alleged that in the majority of instances
the reduction of wages varied from 5s. to
10s. a week. The women also complain
that they are not allowed to take their
work home as formerly, their earnings be-
ing further reduced by the new arrange-
ment. An additional force of police was
on duty outside the House of Parliament
during the afternoon.
	The matter complained of by the women
was brought before the House of Commons
on April 21, by Mr. Mundella, and was
thoroughly discussed, though not satisfacto-
rily decided.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S VOICE.

	With much pleasure I read the deter-
mination of the sisters throughout the terri-
tory, to sustain the principles of the Gos-
pel they have received. Not only the doc-
trine of baptism, and the laying on of hands
but that of Plural Marriage, (as expressed
by them through the EXPONENT.) and all
the commandments God gives to His Saints
in these last days.
	We women of the Church of Jesus Christ,
will sustain our husbands and fathers, and
encourage our brothers, and sons, and
daughters, to obey the laws of God. The
Lord has said, by His Prophet Joseph
Smith, that if we observe the laws of God,
we have no need to break the laws of the
land. We cannot regard the late decision
of the Supreme Court, as the law of the
land; because the Constitution provides,
that “Congress shall make no law respect-
ing religion, and the free exercise thereof.”
When the Constitution reads thus, how
can we consider that this law should be re-
ceived as a law of the land. I believe it
has been done to crush this people: what
business have they in any way to annoy us
on account of our religion? I do not con-
sider they have any. They cannot over-
throw it, not even one of its principles. We
might as well discard the whole as to do
away with one of the principles of our most
holy religion, (though it might be consider-
ed the least.) This Gospel is the same as
the one the Apostle Paul describes, com-
paring it to a body [1 Corinthians 12 Chap.]
We cannot do without one principle, that
has been revealed, we cannot do without
repentance, or baptism, or the laying on of
hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost; we
cannot do without revelation and the prop-
erly organized priesthood of the son of God.
Neither can we do without Celestial Mar-
riage, and the ordinances of the house of
God.
	This people want to benefit the whole
human family, to gather Israel, and bring
about the reign of peace on the earth, and
we will by the help of God accomplish the
work He has sent us to do. Our enemies
may think they can destroy the institutions
of this Church, but as sure as the God of
Israel reigns on high, just so sure will


their plans come to naught, and Israel will
triumph.
	We will instruct our children, in the laws
of the Lord, and teach them to fear Him,
who is able to destroy both body and soul.
We will teach them also to observe the laws
of the land, whether they are just or unjust,
but we dare not teach them to disobey the
Most High.
					Yours respectfully,
						Rebecca E. Mace.
	KANAB, UTAH. MAY 19, 1879.


[Column 1]
		[For the EXPONENT.
	HOME.

	Home is woman’s world.  The most sa-
cred, peaceful, beloved and heaven-born
place that earth contains. The resting-place
of the weary, the hospital of the sick, the
visiting-place of angels, and the favorite re-
sort of the Spirit of God. It is in the sweet
confines of home that are experienced the
most refined and heartfelt joys, the deepest
affections, the truest friendships, the grand-
est emotions, and the most fervent, devout
and sincere acknowledgments of the great-
ness and goodness of God. Therefore, I
would impress upon the minds of my sis-
ters the great importance of studying how
to make home pleasant. Every young wo-
man expects, and is expected, to preside
over a home, and be a mother in that home;
and unless she enters her field of labor with
an idea of its importance and a knowledge
of its duties, her life is sure to be one de-
void of comfort and happiness.
	In the true Christian home mother is the
mainspring—the center, round which all
its joys revolve. Home has no charm when
bereft of a mother. It is her gentle love
and devotion, her tender words and acts,
her kind manners and intelligent and ele-
vating influence, that makes the charm of
home greater than all others. If home
possessed no other charm, the presence of
mother would make it glorious and sub-
lime.
	Our very lives are governed by love, and
where is there an affection so pure and
true, so free from selfishness and dross, so
forgiving, charitable and vividly alive to
our interests, as a mother’s? It is the great
refreshing fountain of life! What glorious
love is pictured in a mother’s face, as she
fondly gazes on her sleeping child, as she
nurses it in its tender infancy, watches over
it in hours of sickness, toils for its happi-
ness, counsels it to goodness and virtue,
and mourns to see it following the paths of
vice! Home has no force, capacity, or in-
fluence without a mother’s love. God
plants in homes the seeds that shall bring
forth fruit meet for heaven; and thus we
see the great necessity for educating our-
selves in all the practical walks of life.
There is no sphere of labor under the hea-
vens greater than that of woman’s. She is
the main educator in the sacred home cir-
cle, and the more sterling goodness, Intel-
lectual and refined ability she possesses, the
greater is her capacity for doing good, and
the more sure is she to create that heaven-
born bliss, that Eden which home should
be. O sisters! let us strive to make our
homes a great life-school, wherein shall be
taught all the great value of virtue, and the
true nobility of labor. Think not that fine
houses elegantly furnished, lovely gardens,
or something more beautiful and costly
than your neighbor’s, constitute home, far
it is something far ahead of this. It is the
influence, the associations, the spirit which
is within, that makes home. Home is wo-
man’s world, her kingdom, and she will

[Column 2]
reign over it always. She may go out into
the world, and visit the poor; fill responsi-
ble positions, engage in teaching, or lectur-
ing, write books, or go on missions of mercy,
and she will still love, best of all places in
the world, her home. It is natural to her;
God has implanted those feelings in her bo-
som.  But woman should not be content
with simply her domestic duties; she should
have a choice of labor, and then study con-
stantly to prepare herself for her duties.
Woman should not be shut out of any em-
ployment in the whole world, but should
be allowed equal advantages and opportu-
nities with her brother, to seek employ-
ment, usefulness and happiness wherever
she can find it; and I am assured that home
would be all the better for it, as this would
improve her mind and ability to minister
in love at home. If woman could have
the encouragement, or chance, in the great
field of labor that man has, she would not
lack skill, or ability; but in nearly all cases
she is compelled to labor in her home en-
tirely, with no change and no alternative.
Give her the privilege of selecting her vo-
cation, she will readily prove her sense of
propriety and good judgment in choosing
her sphere of action. Then will she choose
the sequestered scenes of home, not from
stern necessity, but from her true woman’s
heart; and God has nobly fitted woman to
be the heart, the guardian, the ministering
angel, the supreme genius of home. Then,
dear sisters, let us strive continually, seek-
ing the aid of God, to make our homes a
haven of peace, a quiet, sequestered spot,
where our loved ones may dwell in the
genial bonds of friendship, in the holy ties
of love, making it a school for mental,
moral and spiritual improvement, where
love shall reign, where chastity shall impart
her rays of peace, bringing contentment,
virtue and goodness, where we can talk of
and teach the principles of our eternal re-
ligion, and then, indeed, shall our homes be
complete. Then our homes shall be worthy
the name.
	And if we would make them what I have
tried to portray, we must guard our every
action, for of all places in the world home
is the most sensitive. At home words that
we would pass by unnoticed when abroad
wound us to the quick. There we assume
no airs or affectation; our hearts are bare,
and every little spark burns us.  We can
bear very little, and if we would have our
home a true one, we must carefully guard
our words and actions, be kind and cour-
teous in our address, polite and gentle in
our manners, honest and true in our very
thoughts, thus giving no opportunity for
wounded feelings, or offence.
	Let us not be discouraged by the efforts
of our enemies to rob us of our peace and
home associations, “so far can they go and
no farther.” God is on our side, and He Is
greater than all. Although we all feel in-
dignant at the great outrage lately forced
upon our respected friend, Bro. Wells, we
must not question the judgment of God. It
was for some wise purpose, and I venture
to say he is far happier than his enemies,
and instead of their persecutions devastat-
ing our homes, it will only serve to renew
our faith, double our energy, more closely
unite our hearts, and strengthen our deter-
mination to serve God rather than man.
	Richfield.	CELIA.


WHAT I admire in Columbus is not his
having discovered a world, but his having
gone to search for it on the faith of an
opinion.—Turgot.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ELDER ORSON PRATT'S KEY TO THE
UNIVERSE.

SALT LAKE CITY, May 16, 1879.

	Your assistance is respectfully solicited in
obtaining subscriptions to a new and origi-
nal work of great scientific value, about to
be published by Elder Orson Pratt. The
following extract from a letter from him
will explain sufficiently its nature and ob-
ject:

		LONDON, ENGLAND, Jan. 5, 1879.

	"The pamphlet will probably be entitled,
"Key to the Universe, or a New Theory of
its Mechanism," founded, first, upon a con-
stant orbital propulsion, arising from the
velocity of gravity, and its constant abber-
rations; and, second, upon a resisting ethe-
real medium of variable density.
	"I do not expect that the Saints, who
are not mathematicians, will be able to
clearly understand this interesting subject,
but they have children who will eventually
attain to a knowledge of the Universe far
in advance of the learned of this age, and
who will appreciate the mathematical dem-
onstrations accompanying this work; they
will appreciate the humble exertions of one
of their own brethren in trying to account
for certain phenomena which have hitherto
baffled the skill of all former researches.
	"For our children's sake, then, let the
Saints patronize works of merit and great
research, and incorporate this small tribute
to science in their family libraries. Let it
be as a token of remembrance for one who
has labored in their midst."

	It is desirable that as many subscriptions
as possible be obtained by June 12, to pay
the expenses of publication. Books will be
forwarded to subscribers as soon as they ar-
rive. Price, in paper covers, $1 50; cloth
$2 00.
	All subscriptions, enquiries, etc, may be
addressed to
				MARIAN R. PRATT,
					Historian Office,
						Salt Lake City.


CORRESPONDENCE.

			SANTA CLARA, UTAH.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have just returned from fast-day meet-
ing, and agreeable to your request try to
tell you a little about this remote place
called Santa Clara. It is the most southern
settlement in Utah Territory. It contains
about thirty-five families, mostly from
Switzerland. They are a very industrious,
hard-working people, and I think, with a
few exceptions are striving to be Latter-
day Saints; these few seem to have forgot-
ten, or rather left their first love for the
Gospel, which prompted them to leave
their native land and cross the mighty
ocean, and the sterile plains to find a home
with the people of God, where they might
be instructed in the ways of the Lord, and
prepare for the great day of his coming.
	Our near proximity to mining camps
seems to have affected a few. Yet there
is a goodly number living their religion and
aiming to carry out the counsels of the ser-
vants of God, who are appointed to lead us.
	We are about five miles from the St.
George temple which gives us an excellent
opportunity of working for those behind
the vail. This is a great blessing, I ap-
preciate it more than any earthly treasure.
	Our Bishop is a good man and so are his
counselors. We have a Relief Society


who are doing pretty well. They have a
lot partly planted with mulberry trees, and
are trying to build a house in which to
meet, and also to raise silk-worms in com-
pliance with our late Preisdent's instruc-
tions.
	Our Relief Society house is thirty-six by
forty feet and is two story; the upper part
designed for a cocoonry, and the lower part
for working, and meetings of the society,
also a store-room, as we intend to carry out
the counsel given to store up grain. The
walls of our house are up, and we expect to
have it covered soon.
	You will please pardon me while I di-
gress from my subject to make honorable
mention of Sister Stringham, who came in
the spring of 1878 and instructed us in seri-
culture. Her labors were indefatigable
here, and especially so in St. George; in-
structing us in attending to our silk culture.
May God bless and reward her is my prayer.
	We have a Y. L. M. I. A. doing pretty
well, I think and believe it has been a
blessing to our young people.
	Our Sabbath School numbers about sev-
enty-five under the superintendance of
John Keller, it is doing well.
	I feel we are a blest people, yea especi-
ally blest of the Lord, or we could never
have accumulated the necessaries and many
of the comforts of life that we enjoy, here
in this barren and sterile country.
	The hand of the Lord has been over us
for good all the day long, for which I am
grateful.
	May peace, wisdom and prosperity con-
tinue to be and abide with you, and may
the EXPONENT continue to be an instru-
ment in the ha nds of God of disseminating
light and truth is the prayer of your sister
in the cause of truth and right.
						With respect,
				LYDIA F. MCCLELLAN.


[Column 1]
HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE.
	IF not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and withont any noise and confu-
sion, although the rate of speed is very high. Its self-
setting and self-threading [-]huttle, and absence of springs
and cogs renders it both simple and durable. Be sure to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend.
Victor Sewing Machine Co., Chicago, Ill.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,

PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,

	Has opened her Medical Class at her residence in the
13th Ward, two blocks and a half east of the Post Office
south side of the street, nearly opposite the Presbyterian
Church.

	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of 
women.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responped to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

NEW SPRING STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cuff and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

[Column 2]
SOMETHING NEW--HOME-MADE

Snell's Soap, warranted First Class,
					3 Bars for 25 Cents.
Harris' Soap,	-	-	3 Bars for 20 Cents.
Washboards, (Zinc)	-	-	- 35 Cents each
Brooms,	-	-	-	-	- 35 Cents each
A FULL STOCK OF YARNS, JEANS,
ALSO
Cassimeres $1.00 to $1.25 per Yard.
TRUNKS. Etc.
JOHN C. CUTLER,
Agent, Old Constitution Building.

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE

	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes. Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWIRE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

NEW SPRING GOODS

ARRIVING DAILY,

IN THE LATEST NOVELTIES

Ladies' Bows in Silk and Lace. Ties a large
	variety. Collars, Cuffs and Ribbons, an ex-
	cellent variety. New Style. Dress Goods.
	And in fact everything you want in general
	merchandise. Conference visitors, call at

TEASDEL'S

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. [-]ash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
Salt Lake City.					97 Kimball Block.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,

	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
	Residence six blocks cast of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake :City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
