VOL. 8. 			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1880. 		No. 19.


A DEMONSTRATION OF RESPECT.

TO SISTER M. I. HORNE, PRESIDENT OF THE 
14TH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY.    WRITTEN
[-] REQUEST, IN BEHALF OF THE SISTERS
OF THE SOCIETY.

 The courtesy of Christ, divinely true,
Render'd to all the honor justly due;
That all meant woman too-we comprehend
That Jesus was, and is a woman's friend;
From His rebuke so brave, so wise, so true,
Her vile traducers silently withdrew;
Nor was He willing that a woman should 
Be frown'd upon, for "doing what she could."

In these the latter-days there is reserved,
Honor for woman, and 'tis well deserved,
For women labor for most worthy ends,
Amid the sneers of foes, and so call'd friends,
Upheld by conscience; (their reward's ahead-
Right is their aim, no matter what is said:
And they are mere determined, not deterr'd
Where men would sink, without a cheering word.

To help the weary, and revive the faint,
Is worthy of the woman and the Saint,
"It is religion, pure and undefiled:
To bless the widow and the orphan child,"
To clothe the naked, succor the distress'd:
And comfort all by circumstance opprest;
To lead the young in wisdom's pleasant way,
To turn them back who from the right may stray.
Freedom and ease to daily sacrifice,
That others may a blessing realize
Think you though praise may be by man deferr'd,
That no reward will be by heaven conferr'd?
God sees such laborers, owns their work divine,
And brighter than the stars their crowns shall shine.

But woman should acknowledge woman's worth;
Should give her sisters credit here on earth;
And all who labor for  public weal
Should be approv'd, lest they discouraged feel;
Or man or woman who devote their days
To doing good shall have their meed of praise,
And hence we meet this afternoon to pay--
A tribute of respect (in woman's way)
To one so well and favorably known,
'Tis hardly needed that her worth we own,
And yet in justice 'tis but right we should
Make some expression of our gratitude.

Dauntless, yet diffident, unmoved by scorn,
A constant helper-such is Sister Horne.
Her works will praise her, not alone in time,
Eternity will show results sublime.
A faithful mother in a twofold sense,
Broad as her aims, shall be her recompense;
And God we know will fittingly repay,
One who has never falter'd by the way.

Meantime dear president, dear sister too,
We deem it proper to present to you
*This token of esteem, that you may feel
Your sisters do appreciate your zeal:
Though small the demonstration that we make,
Accept it kindly for affection's sake.

You wish from public duties to retire,
We meet with cordial protest- our desire
Is, that your presence and experience too
May yet assist us in our labors true:
And to this end, your friends and sisters pray
That God will give you strength for many a day.
EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
	S.L. City, Feb. 4th, 1880.
*A gold watch and chain.


[Column 1]
AFRAID OF WOMAN’S COMPETITION.

	While conversing with a gentleman a
short time since,the subject of the Woman’s
Disabilities bill was introduced. He said
he was very glad it did not become a law
for said he there is no telling where the
women will stop if they do not get checked
up,they will be running for President next.
“If we give them an inch they take an ell,’
So then it is not woman’s incapacity nor

[Column 2]
the unfitness for the duties she might have
to perform which debars her from certain
offices, but, “they will come and take away
our place and nation.” After so many
hundred years have passed during which
almost the common rights of citizenship
have been denied her, some of our broth-
er men are afraid if we have many extra
privileges accorded us, we shall outstrip
them in the race, and thus step out of our
sphere instead of being better quallified for
it.
	No true woman will seek for, or accept a
right beyond what is right and proper.
Give her freedom to exercise the ability
God has given her,educate her on a broader
basis, and then let her have proper encour-
agement, and she will understand better
what her sphere is.
	Men are educated for hundreds of differ-
ent spheres, (and who defines them?) Said
the Duke of Rutland, “Woman should be
taught household duties and cookery.”
How can men expect to raise up an intelli-
gent posterity from mothers who are taught
only to administer to the physical needs of
their families? How can such women prove
intelligent companions and helpmeets to
their husbands? I well remember attending
a Lyceum in the winter of 1856,in a Ward
not far from Salt Lake City, the subject of
discussion was, this, “Is a woman to be
educated equally with man.” The decision
was given in the negative, the main argu-
ment being that as woman’s duties consisted
chiefly in attending to household affairs
and taking care of her family it was not
necessary to educate her as thouroughly as
man, his sphere of action being so much
more enlarged. Should any one deliver
himself of such a sentiment now, I think
he would be waited upon by a delegation of
ladles and enlightened upon the subject.
	“No telling where they will stop.” Just
so my brother, we do not intend to stop!
This is an age of progression, and with the
blessing of God we hope to go on hand in
hand with our fathers and sons helping
the weak, encouraging the strong, bringing
about reform here and there, toning down
some extremes, and correcting mistakes,
thus helping to bring about the Millenium.
We are proud to see that many of our breth-
ren understand woman’s motives in these
movements and appreciate her efforts in
helping to ennoble and exalt the sisters and
lead them into a higher channel that they 
may the better understand their high and
holy mission as mothers to the sons and 
daughters of God. And while some of our 
sisters who have talent and ability are en-
gaged in laboring for the common weal, and
are directing their efforts for the general
good of all womankimd, let each one in her
own home, be that home ever so humble,
try to make some reforms which will lead
to the one great end, even as many little
streams swell the broadest rivers. Hund-
reds of earnest, thinking women, whose
voices may not be “heard in the land,” are
yet, watching the progress of the woman's
cause, inhaling the spirit of it, and adding
their mite of influence to that of their sisters,
although that influence may not extend
further than the circle of their own little
neighborhood. How many in these humble
homes can date their looking up to a higher

[Column 3]
standard from the time of the organization
of Woman's Societeies, and the issuing of the 
“Woman's EXPONENT?”
	RUSTICIA
	Vernon,Febuary 22, 1880.


LEGISLATIVE PROCEEDINGS.

 The Legislature has adjourned, the forty
days of continuous labor for the public weal
are over and  the country  members have
returned to their homes and local duties.
It has been a very interesting session, new
members have brought into the house a
freshness and intense interest that always
accompanies new duties, while wise and
able men who have sat year alter year, give
dignity and weight to the entire proceed-
ings.  Altogether they have accomplished
a large amount  of  legislative  work  which
will no doubt add much to the welfare, hap-
piness aud prosperity  of  the people  of the
Territory.
	Alter some discussion and  opposition the
House passed  the  bill  H. F. No. 1, “To re-
move the political disabilities of the women
of Utah.” It was taken from the table on
motion of Hon. W. B. Preston and read the
second time by sections: on motion of Hon.
J. B. Murdock it was read the third time
by its title and on motion of Hon. A. Mc-
Kinnon, passed.
	On motion of Hon. Joel Grover the  ayes
and noes were called and counted.
	Ayes: Messrs,  Fisher,  Francis, Gardner,
Horne, Jaques,  Johnson,  Lyman,  McKin-
non,  Murdock, Penrose, Peterson, Preston,
Snow, Thompson and the Speaker.
	Noes. Dusonberry, Farr, Grover,  Hatch,
Pack, Peery, Sharp and Smith.  The votes
stood 15 to 8, three members, Messrs. Car-
rington, Winn and Snell, declined voting
at all.  The ladies  should  remember  that
the Hon. Orson Pratt asked the privilege of
the House to vote upon the Woman’s Bill.
	The till passed the Council without a neg-
ative vote and in order that their names be
remembered as associated with this subject
we publish them that it may be recorded
to their honor  that they were anxious to
remove every bar in the way of woman’s
advancement to political equality, with her
brother men.	
	Messrs. Smoot, Smith,Wells, E. Snow, Caino,
Barton, Fotheringham,  Thurber,  Teasdale,
Cluff,  Harrington, Merrill.
	The bill was sent to His Excellency, the
Governer, who treated  it  with  silent  con-
tempt, as he did a similar bill two years
ago.  If the ladies did not possess an abund-
ant proportion of the true elements of
Christian charity they would certainly con-
sign His Excellency to oblivion.  As it is
they owe him no thanks  for favors, de-
nied.


A GOOD EXAMPLE:—Iowa has seven lady
Superintendents of schools

	THE Duchess of  Marlborough  in a  letter
to the LordMayor,of London acknowledging
2, 000, says if the charity  of  the  public
continues no person in Ireland need be al-
lowed to die for lack  of food  but  the  com-
mittee must spend over 40, 000, per week
for six weeks more.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ANOTHER WOMAN’S OPINION.

	Partly to oblige a dear friend  and  partly
from the lively  interest I feel in  our  com-
mon cause, I venture  to  address you  on a
subject of vital interest  to  us all,  viz.  The
action of the Territorial  Legislature  in re-
lation to  the Bill  concerning  the  Political
Disabilities of women.
	To begin  with  the  phrase  has  a  very
unpleasant  sound  to  my  ears.  Why not
the political disabilities  of men as  well, or
rather, the political disabilites of citizens of
both sexes, when ignorance, vice, or mental
incapacity render it subversive, of the pub-
lic weal to allow such persons to receive
offices of public trust.  But why this invi-
dious distinction as regards sex.  Is not the
average woman morally and mentally equal
to the average man?
	Does it follow  from the mere  fact  of  a
public officer's being awoman citizen and in
every way fitted for the duties of her office,
except of course the grave offence of being a
woman, that she will any the less faithfully
and  conscientiously  perform those  duties
from the mere accident of sex, or is she any
more liable  to perjure herself and abscond
with the public funds  which  may  be  en-
trusted to  her  keeping,  than  her  brother
man under the same circumstances.  I hope
and trust  that our wise  law-makers  will
cease to allow such  a libel on their  wives,
mothers and daughters to exist  except as a 
relic of the superstition of a past age.  And
here another important phase of  this vexed
question presents itself.
	Granted for argument's sake that woman
is eligble to public office does it not natural-
ly follow that if she performs the same work
as her predecessor and performs it as well
should she receive the same remunreation?
It is sometimes  argued  that men should 
receive more  wages  than  women  on the
ground they  have families  to  support
either present or  prospective, in my hum-
ble opinion this is a distinction  without a
difference,  for  in  my  experience  I have
never known a single instance where a true
wife and mother has used her personal earn-
ings (when she is so  fortunate as  to have
any) for self aggrandizement,  the  result is
always apparent in some added  home com-
fort, something for the little ones thus light-
ening her husbands burdens, or in a gift to
the poor and needy.  Such being the case
should she not have the self-respect and satis-
faction of knowning that her time and brains
are as valuable as her hubsand's, when per-
forming the same duties.  And here arises
another difficulty.
	Many of our opponents seem to think if
the Woman's Bill eventually becomes a law
that all women, regardless of home  duties
or qualifications for office will  speedily de-
generate into that most  contemptible  class
of God's creatures office seekers.
	Now, from my knowledge of our virtues
and their aims and  purposes a  greater fal-
lacy  does  not  exist.  Certainly  not  one
woman in a hundred can leave her home to
preform the duties pertaining to any public
office probably a less  proportion  have any
inclination in that direction, but we wish to
feel that we have the right to hold positions
of public trust, where we are mentally and
morally capable and when we represent the
will of a  majority  of  our  fellow citizens.
	In short we have grown  tired, as  Mrs.
Stanton, pertinently remarks of  being classed
with idiots, lunatics  and criminals. It  is
true we have the  right  of sufferage but is
that all, this shadow without  the  substance,
that our brethren can afford  to  give us,  the
women of Utah, co-workers  with  them  in
the  redemption  of Zion, and  the  upbuilding
of the kingdom of the Latter days.  Never-
theless we  feel and believe  that  our cause
will eventually prevail and in  that  day  we
shall be proud to remember and do honor to
our gallant defenders.
	Although our political fate is still trembl-
ing  in  the  balance,  yet  we  hope  against
hope that our Legislators will be the  pion-
eers in this great reform, as well as in many
other  great  and  good  works beretofore.
But if  the golden opportunity is allowed  to
pass now two years hence may be too late to
confer upon them the proud  distinction  of
being first to bestow political freedom  upon
any portion of the female  citizens  of this
great Republic.  However liberty is  worth
waiting for and we bide our  time  trusting
to an overruling Providence for the result.
				EQUAL RIGHTS.
Manti Feb. 15, 1880.


WHO ARE NOT ENTITLED.
	Should women, because they are women,
really not be entitled to hold offices of trust
or profit, in States and Territories? In the
name of common sense, we ask, why?
	To be entitled  must in  reason mean to
be qualified to do the most  and best  good,
in that office for the public welfare.
	To say, that there are  no public offices of
trust and profit, that woman can fill as well
as man; is an assertion, which is not worthy
of being disproved.  We  will  merely say,
there is not a man, whose opinion a woman
should  care  anything about; but  what
knows better.
	It has been sown  broadcast, that the care
of “home” devolving  upon  woman,  dis-
qualifies her to hold offices  of  trust and pro-
fit.  But it is just for the sake of that Home,
that qualified  persons,  whether  men or
women, desire to be entitled to hold offices
of trust and profit.
	We maintain, that, to assert that women
on account of being women, should be unfit
to hold offices  of trust and  profit, is sheer
nonsense, and does  not  merit  to  be  met
with an argument.
	A thief,a liar, a  drunkard, a debauchee, a
profaner of the name of God, will wherever
put, be a traitor to the trust of an office in
the public service.  He may  be ever so in-
telligent a rascal, he is unfit, nevertheless.
	But, that women should, be non-entitled,
because they are women, is an outrage upon
reason, and a torture to sound sense.
	We do  not  consider  it  good  policy,  to
court public litigation in our  behalf.  And
we do not do it.  Plese don’t infringe upon
the "right” of our EXPONENT.  We do like,
	To give our say,
	In our own way,
And there will be no litigation, when  the
time comes,  this  little  deformity  in our
Statutes, will be set  right, and without lit-
igation, we venture to predict.
	We see that the seeming suddenness of
this question has had a queer effect on some
brains.  But, a little time for consideration,
on the sweeping  term of  the  language of
our Statute:  "Neither  shall  any person  be
entitled to hold any office of trust or profit,
in  the  territory  unless “he" is a “male”
(the ludicrousness of the language almost
nullifies  the  intended meaning of the sec-
tion) citizen of the United States, will settle
that question for the good of all.
	Truth will prevail.”
		H. M.
Gunnison Feb. 16th 1880.


CORRESPONDENCE.

MORGAN CITY Feb. 9, 1880.
DEAR EDITOR
	I see in your last issue a report of a meet-
ing of the R. S. of Morgan Stake during
which, a vote was taken on what is termed
the Woman’s Bill, with this result: It only
carried a minority. “All the most intel-
ligent ladies voted for it?” Your reliable
informant says,“the majority did not under-
stand it." How very obtuse!
	The persons who make the assertion, or
it's equivalent i. e. that the intelligent por-
tion of this community is the minority (for
such is the inference) ought to give us their
names. I beg leave to refute the asser-
tion.
	The portion of the audience who did not
vote for the Bill, acted thus, from a sense
of truthfulness to themselves, and not from
ignorance. They thought that by helping
themselves to many offices, now held by
men, they would perchance be bartering
their womanly modesty and gentleness, for
an easier life or a little more money.
	The “intelligent” portion of a com-
munity, may be, a mixture of the bold and
self reliant,demonstrative and conceited,the
conservative, reserved, dignified, reflecting
and cautious. Each one perhaps, bright
and intelligent, but scarcely all balanced by
wisdom.
	While I strenuously hold, that woman
ought to have a voice in the election of
officers, who are to rule over, and make
laws for the women and children as well as
the men: I think that the ladies eligible to
offices are so few, not from want of capability
but on account of youth, or family duties,
that the risks and disadvantages, incurred
by the passing of such a Bill, are at par,
with the benefit to be derived therefrom.
	I entreat you, my dear sisters, let us not
have party spirits and contentions among
us, on this or any other subject; let us not
snap at one another because we cannot all
see alike. “Charity covers a multitude of
faults,” and is more according with the
Spirit of our Divine Master.
	Your Sister in the Gospel. C. E. F.


TOO MANY GIRLS.—“Them girls’ll be the
death of me,” sighed  Mr.  Plug  this  morn-
ing as he came up street.
	“Why I thought  they  were  very nice
girls,” said a sympathizing friend.
	“So they are nice enough, but there's too
many on’em, an’ they’re too attractive,”
said the  disconsolate  patriarch. “Them
three daughters of mine were enough in all
conscience, but now  my  niece  is  up  here
from Boston,  and  it  seems  as  if  the  old
scratch  had  got in’em. I don’t object to
young folks havin’ a  good time,  and girls
haviu’beaux and all that, but when it comes
to  havin sparkin’ going  on  all  over the
place, “damme it’s too bad,” said Mr, Plug,
unconsciously  quoting from. “Pinafore.”
“Last night Sue had a feller courtin’ her at
the front gate, and Julia had her chap  in
the parlor, and when  I got  ready to go  to
bed,  bless  me, if Andromache (that's  my
niece from Boston) didn’t have young Start
spooning her on the stairs.  She says that’s
Newport style.  Cuss  such  nonsense! I
couldn’t get up stairs to go to bed without
climbin' over them, so I thought I’d go cut
to the barn and sleep on the hay but durn
my pictur, if I didn’t fall  over Millly and
some young snoozer ’nuther settin’ in the
barn door.  This thing’s got to  stop before
the cpld weather,for I can’t afford wood and
karrysene for any such  nonsense when it’s
too cold for out-door  sparkin."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO ONE LOVE.

		(Published by request.)
For all that thou hast been to me,
Of light and joy and melody;
What can I offer love to thee?
What can I plead thy life to hold
But fair success and honors told?
'Tis true I only breathe one prayer
God's love go with thee every where,
His guidance and his tenderest care.
I only know that by thy side.
My life for me is glorified,
And heavenly peace is flowing wide.
For all the kindness, thou hast shown
For every tender word and tone
[—] cious than before I’ve known.
I thank thee even in her name,
Who now beneath the snow is lain,
Unmoved by sunshine or by rain.
O'er whose sweet rest the breezes blow,
O’er whose unbroken slumbers low,
Our tears unheeded still must flow.
When other arms than mine shall fold
Thee tenderly, in sheltering hold,
More strong, and true and self controlled.
Remember then dear, how my prayer,
My tenderest thoughts, my sweetest care,
Go with thee, dearest, every where.
Thou art the rest, the [-]anguar sweet,
Thou my desire, thou my retreat,
I consecrate my heart to thee.
I hope thou’it in eternity
Come into me and shut the door,
So fast that none can enter more.
Fill all my soul with sweet delight
My thoughts are with thee, day and night.
						S. L.
Salt Lake City, Jan. 22.1880.


[Column 1]
	CONVERSATION.

	BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Conversation is a source of much happi-
ness, and a powerful engine for instruction
and general information; it might be the
opposite, but we will not take that view of
the matter, it is always more pleasing to
contemplate the good. It is not the mere
act of talking, neither is it the greatest
talkers, who are the most conversational. I
think when we meet in our social parties,
each one should endeavor to add their quota
to the entertainment of that party for the
time being; some persons are very lively
and witty, and this exercised with kindness
and prudence, so as not to hurt any one’s
feelings, is very agreeable, and gives life to
a party. It is said that wit is a dangerous
gift, but if the heart is right and the head
clear and strong and well informed, no
matter how keen and scintillating the shafts
are they will not wound, though it is true
	“That many a shaft at random sent,
	Finds mark the archer never meant.”
But every one will at once see the spirit of
the speaker, and will parry the shaft, should
one upbraid them, without it hurting in
the least. There is also a time to speak and
a time to be silent; good listeners are quite
as efficient and quite as desirable as good
speakers,and it is necessary that they should
be quite as intelligent as the speaker. If
there is no faculty among the audience to
receive the impressions of the speaker, it
will be like watering the desert with a wa-
tering-pot! I firmly believe that an intelli-
gent company brings forth the intelligent
speakers; inspiration is felt, and ignites
inspiration. We are surrounded by silent
forces; in small or in large companies they
are there, as also in the wide expanse by
which we are enveloped. Often a word
dropped,or a remark made, will give inspi-
ration to all present, and fertilize the men-
tal organism for the rest of the assemblage.
	There is an art in conversation, and good
manners also. The most fluent, or even
gifted speaker should not monopolize the
conversation, but become silent, that others

[Column 2]
may be heard; and, indeed, it is but rarely
we meet a person so gifted that they can
hold  the attention and interest a whole
company for any considerable length of
time.
	We can do nothing well unless we make
a business of it, and conversation is cer-
tainly important and beneficial enough to
be made something of a study; that we
may do good by such an accomplishment,
for such it certainly is when excelled in.
But to be a pleasing speaker, many little
attributes and attractions must be brought
into action. I would name first the voice.
Some voices alone charm and magnetize,
and others repel and disenchant, even
though pearls might fall through them. The
better a person speaks the more anxious
every one is to hear them; and yet how
often is it that we bend our ear and bring
every faculty to a focus, and quarter them
on the mechanism of that organ till our
head aches, and after all it is only by the
keenness of our comprehension that we can
catch a word here and a aentence there that
we can string the orient pearls that fall
through the lips of the speaker. This more
especially refers to public speakers, but is
often experienced in a room also.
	When a music master gives a singing
lesson to a young pupil, the first injunction
is “open your mouth;” and this applies
equally to speaking. It is not sufficient
the lips should open, but the teeth also;
the voice should emerge from the chest
and mouth, never, oh, never through the
nose! A nasal enunciation is fearful to a
finely educated ear, and is never heard in
highly educated people. The gestures
should also be attended to; some are very
pleasing, others offensive. A highly imagi-
native, animated person can scarcely help
some gesture; there ought not to be too
much, but some are very attractive, and
have a language in themselves that need
no oral demonstration. The expression of
the face in some people while speaking is
very attractive, in others the reverse.
	Some may think all these trifles, but true
it is that “Trifles make the sum of human
things.” Demosthenes, that Prince of Ora-
tors, thought nothing a trifle, or too small
to educate his voice, which in youth was
very defective and objectionable. He put
himself through a rigid course of training
that he might acquire the hight and depth
and volume of voice that should hereafter
make him the orator that should astound
and rivet the world!
	In conversation the voice needs training,
not for power, but for attraction, for win-
ning, for clearness and efficiency. Have
we not all heard a voice, or voices, which
no time can make us forget? And the
manners and the gestures accompanying
that voice? Yea, verily—we can shut our
eyes and listen, and though years may have
passed away, times and seasons and situa-
tions and associations may have changed,
yet—hush I we hear it ringing through the
chambers of the mind, the soul, the heart
and brain, aud all respond and give back
the voice of other days, in all its force and
in all its magical whisperings!
	Conversation! Yes, all this is connected
with that sweet interchange of thought, of
experience, of biographical depiction, that
some can give so thrillingly,so delightfully,
so winningly. that it remains with us like
the music of the sea shell, ever breathing
of the ocean “to the river of our thoughts.”
What a mighty gift is the gift of speech!
How sacred we ought to hold it! And oh,
what waste, what reckless, noisy, trifling
talk our days witness. Well and wisely

[Column 3]
may we daily, hourly pray, “Set a watch
upon my mouth, and keep the door of my
lips, that I incline not to evil.” And yet
how venial this may appear beside the aw-
fully profane, the bold, daring, reckless,
dreadful language of so large a portion of
the human family. Well may it be said
that “God is love,” but equally true it is
that His is no puerile, mistaken, misjudg-
ing, unjust love; but His attributes of jus-
tice and judgment have also to be satisfied.
But let us never forget that mercy also is
there, holding her palmbranch of peace and
mediation! And all, all will be needed for
a fallen, sinful, wicked, daring world. But
I have gone rather farther than I set out
for; well, “it is written,” and I will not
erase it—I am not writing for effect, but
for truth in all things, great and small. If
have permission I will perhaps continue
this subject at a future time, for though it
may be considered a small subject, I do not 
look at it in that light, nor will any one
when they have given it a little serious
consideration. Even the salutation of a
friend in passing, may be so unique, so re-
freshing, may strike a chord of the soul
that has long lain silent, that years may
pass, times may change, but that salutation.
that manner, with its genial influence and
the effect it had upon us is still remembered,
and still makes a green spot in memory.
There are never-to be-forgotten tones—some
sweet as the whisperings of love, others
“cruel as the grave.”
	In the few hints I have thrown out I
would wish to be understood as simply de-
siring to do good, to make society agreea-
ble, and at the same time edifying, making
conversation a medium for conferring hap-
piness and real enjoyment, and a delight-
ful interchange of thought and experience.
For want of facility in speaking appropri-
ately how many good ideas and much good
feeling are lost to our surroundings, and
lies buried in the bosom where it originat-
ed, and where it is often a burden, from the 
very consciousness of inability to make it
felt or understood. You, my sisters, that
feel this, throw off this incubus, open your
mouth, and words of truth will come and
edify even yourself.


THE Woman's  Suffrage  Journal,  Man-
chester.  The  English Woman’s Revew,
London. The  National  Citizen,  Syracuse,
New York, The Woman’s Journal  Boston,
in fact all the woman’s papers recently  have
been doubly interesting  on account of  the
great  and  intelligent  public  work  that is
being done by woman, to benefit society.
Large meetings and Conventions are being
held in  various  parts  of  England,  and
speeches made that  are  bound  to  educate
and convert the people  to a  new phase of
practical effort to lift humanity  to a higher
standard of excellence.


EARLY  MARRIAGES.--Of course young
people ought to marry early, and build  up
a  home  together.  The  idea  that  a  man
must  be  wealthy  before he weds  fills the
community with  fortune seeking bachelors
and unhappy spinsters; it endangers virtue,
destroys true economy and design, and the
beneficent intentions  of the  home.  It pro-
motes vice,  idleness,  inefficiency  and  im-
becility  amongst  females, who seem from
an unsympathetic  outset  henceforward to
expect to be taken up by fortune and pas-
sively sustained and without any concern
on their part.  It is thus that a man finds
it difficult to obtain a helpmeet.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS. - - - - Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

	SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 1, 1880.


[COLUMN 1]
			WORK AND WAIT.
	The question frequently asked us during the
last few days has been, “What are you going
to do now the Governor has refused to sign the
'Woman's Bill.'" It reminds us of a song re-
cently sent by a good sister  for  publication,
which begins and ends with,
		“What are you going to do, sister,
		 Say, what are you going to do?"
We are going to do just as we did before, only
better if we can, for we have had another new
experience  to  add  to  the  long list of the ex-
periences  of years.  We are going to labor in
the interests of humanity,  in  the  education
and elevation of women  and children;  we are
going to help promo e the interests  of Zion
with all  the  energy and ability we possess, in
all humility, trusting in God for the result of
our labors.  These are some of the things the
sisters unitedly feel  to  do, praying earnestly
that Zion may “become a great city, the won-
der of all people."
		To be resigned when ills betide,
		Patient when favors are denied,
		And pleased with farors given;
		Dear Chloe, this is wisdom’s part,
		This is that incense of the heart,
		Whose fragrance smells to heaven."
	These are eloquent words from  an old fash-
ioned poem, deeply engraven  upon  our  heart
in  years gone by when we practised it as a
lesson, seeking  to  make  it a pattern, a motto
in the midst of trials.
	Women have been designated  the reserve
forces of humanity, and when the right time
comes they will advance to the rescue. There
are many  lessons yet to be learned by women,
and they have need of prayerful thought and
careful study that  they  may act  wisely their
noble part in the great drama of life, and that
all may be done in perfect harmony with the
spirit and genius of the holy priesthood.
	But one says, “Have not women work enough
to do pertaining to their  household to  occupy
all their time to the exclusion of everything
else.” Will you tell us who finds time to visit
the homes of the poor, who feeds the hungry,
clothes the destitute, administers to the needy,
comforts  the  bowed  down,  encourages the
doubting, reproves in humility and love the
erring? Does the world need such tireless
workers, whose pleasant duty it is  to  labor for
the good of others, forgetful of self?  Do such
women deserve any consideration at the hands
of men, their brothers?  They have their spe-
cial needs and burdens, they often walk in
rough places, they stand sometimes  on the
brink of the river of death, that they may
bear the souls of men and women; often they
walk alone, through fierce  storms which beat
[COLUMN 2]
heavily upon them and seem to threaten them
with the destruction of all their cherished, life-
long hopes.  From what source do they gather
courage to  struggle on?  From Him who sees
not as man sees.  If women have talents, abil-
ity and energy to labor for the public good,
they can assuredly work more effectually when
there  are  no  invidious  distinctions  against
them; and the right of entire freedom and an
open path will lend new vigor  to their  every
impulse.  Women  who  have  had  great ex-
periences, whose maternal labors are over, who
are willing to sacrifice ease and comfort that
they may serve  others by doing a public good,
by working in some common cause for the gen-
eral welfare of all, such women are blessings to
the world at large; and for all such there is
work to do in the great busy, bustling world.
Yes, there is need of women workers in public
as well as private life.  The peculiar  charac-
teristics  possessed  by  woman  of quickness of 
observation, facility for adaptation and intui-
tion amounting almost to revelation, her in-
nate purity of character, and the spiritual en-
dowments which seem rooted in her very na-
ture, will all tell strongly on the side  of right
and justice.
	There have been too few laborers in the past;
now, if some of the reserve  forces  can  be
brought  into  action, the world  may advance
still more rapidly.  Woman has, by her indif-
ference and inactivity, clogged the wheels of
progress; in the awakening from her dormant
condition, the  workers  will be doubled, and a
new inspiration will be given by the admission
of a new element, and the burdens  of  life will
grow lighter  when  all  work  together on  a
broader p[-]atform for human progress.  Then
let woman work and wait, with a brave heart
and willing  hands, doing the duty that lies
nearest, however humble it may be, and “let
her own works praise her."
E. B. Wells


HOME AFFAIRS.
	The Salt Lake Assembly Hall is being hand-
somely frescoed  by Morris & Co., painters, un-
der  the  direction  and  supervision  of Elder
Henry Grow, the designer and architect.  Over
the  stand  is  a picture  repre[-]enting  the  Bee
Hive,  the emblem of Deseret, embowered in
vines and flowers, on which the bees are feast-
ing; above the hive is the All-seeing eye watch-
ing over all.  The Nauvoo and Kirtland Tem-
ples are painted one on each side of the bee-
hive.  Next on the south side of the ceiling
are Joseph and Oliver  receiving  the  Aaronic
Priesthood from John the Baptist, which took
place on the banks of the Susquehanna  river,
in Pa.  Opposite, on the north side are Peter,
James and  John  bestowing  the Melchizedec
Priesthood upon Joseph, who is kneeling  be-
fore them.  The St. George and Manti Temple
on the south tide, and the Salt Lake and Logan
on the north, make a complete and charming
picture.  Over the gallery is the representation
of the hill Cumorah, and Joseph receiving the
plates at the hands of the angel.  The work is
tastefully designed and neatly  executed, and
will add greatly to the appearance of the inte-
rior of the building.  The pictures being histori-
cal will give tone to the building, and recall
the mind to the subjects they represent in the
most pleasing way.  It is a new feature of Mor-
mon Tabernacles, original in some respects,and
calculated to create a sublime and lofty admira-
tion for the places and incidents thus pre-
sented.
	THE new Governor for Utah,  Gen.  Eli H.
Murray, arrived on Sunday last, and took the
oath of office beforeChief Justice Hunter to-day.


ABOUT THE WOMEN IN WYOMING.

	Chief Justice Howe, of the Supreme Court of
Wyoming, in a  letter  to Mrs. Myra Bradwell,
of Chicago, says: “I had no agency in the en-
actment  of  the  law  in Wyoming conferring
legal equality on women.  I found it upon the
statute book  of the Territory, and in accord-
ance with its provision, several women were
legally drawn by the proper officers on the
grand and petit juries of Albany Co, and were
duly summoned  by the Sheriff without any
agency of mine.  On being apprised  of these
facts, I conceived it to be my [---] duty to
fairly enforce this law as I would any other;
and more than this, I resolved  at once that as
it had fallen to my lot to have the experiment
tried under  my administration, it should have
a fair trial, and I therefore assured  these wo-
men that they could serve or not as they chose;
that if they chose to serve, the court would
secure to them  the most respectful considera-
tion and deference, and protect them from in-
sult in word and gesture, and from everything
which might offend a modest and virtuous wo-
man in any of the walks  of life in which the
good and true women of our country have been
accustomed to move.
	“While I had never been an advocate for the
law I felt that thousands  of  good  men  and
women had been, and that they had a right to
see it fairly administered; and I was resolved
that it should not be sneered down, if I had to
employ the whole power of the court to pre-
vent it.  I felt  that even those who were op-
posed to the policy of admitting women to the
right of suffrage and to hold office would con-
demn me if I did not do this.  It was also
sufficient for me that my own judgment ap-
proved this course.
	“With such assurances these women chose
to serve, and were duly impaneled as jurors.
They are educated, cultivated Eastern ladies,
who are an honor to their sex.  They have
with true  womanly devotion left their  homes
of comfort in the  States, to share  the fortunes
of their husbands and brothers in the far West,
and to aid them in founding  a  new  State be-
yond the Missouri.
	“And now as to the results.  With all my
prejudices against the policy, I am under con-
scientious obligations to say that these women
acquitted themselves with such dignity, de-
corum, propriety  of conduct, and intelligence,
as to win the admiration of every fair-minded
citizen  of  Wyoming.  They  were  careful,
painstaking,  intelligent  and  conscientious.
They were firm and resolute for the right, as
established by the law and the te[--]imony.
Their  verd[-]cts we e right, and after three or
four criminal trials the lawyers engaged in de-
fending persons accused of crime began to avail
themselves  of the  right  of  peremptory  chal-
lenge to get rid of the women jurors, who were,
too much  in favor of  enforcing  the laws and
punishing  crime to suit the interests of their
clients. After the grand jury had been in ses-
sion two days, the dance-house keepers, gam-
blers and demi-monde fled out of the city in
dismay, to escape the indic ment of women
grand jurors.  In short, I have never,  in
twenty-five years of  constant  experience in
the courts of the country, seen  a more faithful,
intelligent, and resolutely  honest grand and
petit-jury than these.
	“The presence of  these  ladies  in court se-
cured the most perfect decorum and propriety
of conduct, and the gentlemen of the bar and
others vied with each other in their courteous
and respec ful demeanor towards the ladies and 
the court.  Nothing occurred to  offend the
most refined  lady (if she was a [-]ensible lady),


and the  universal  judgment  of every  intelli-
gent and fair-minded man  present was  and is
that the experiment was a success."
	Judge Kingman,  Associate  Justice  of the
Supreme Court of Wyoming writes from Lara-
mie City to R. D. Douglas, Esq.: “I am glad to
have the opportunity to refute the idle calumny
to which  you  refer.  Of  a  large  number of
cases tried in this Territory by women Justices
of the Peace, only two have been appealed, and
these two were both sustained by the Appeliate
Court, and judgment ordered  in  accordance
with the decision of the woman Justice.
	“And the truth [--] a where there were men and
women justices in the same town at the same
time, and where  parties  brought  their cases
before either at their own selection, the women
have had by far the greater number to try, and
have given the best satisfaction.  To be sure
we have not had a large  number  of  women
justices.  We have here, as everywhere e'se, a
set of drones who want to get their living with-
out  work, and they manage to crowd women
out of nearly every place  of profit and honor;
but whenever and wherever she has had a
chance to bring her talent or her influence into
fair comparison  with the men here in Wyo-
ming, she has invariably appeared to advant-
age, and all parties have been benefitted."
	Facts such as these speak for themselves and
need no comment.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ITEM.
EDITOR EXPONENT:	
	While reading to-day, I noticed a quotation
from a chapter on Character, which may be
found in Rev. William G. Elliot’s Lecture to
Young Women, which commences thus: “Lit-
tle as may be our reject for a man without
good principles, a  woman without good princi-
ples deserves and will receive less.”
	How can a woman  without good principles
be more despicable  than a man in the same
state?  Is it superiority  or  inferiority that  is
claimed for a woman? 
	Hoping that some of our talented sisters will
give us a true woman’s view of the subject, and
heartily wishing you success in your work for
the elevation of woman,
		 Yours respectfully,
				KARRIE.


THE WEIGHT OF BRAIN.

	I have recently read several highly interest-
ing articles  relative  to  the  inferiority  of wo-
man's brain.  The writers base their claim on
the lesser weight of the female brain.  A man
is eminently superior  to a woman  because his
brain weighs more, and they cite  many  in-
stances  to  prove the  theory:  And in face of
all this convincing  proof  presented  to  me, I
cannot believe it.  Women are just learning
how much  they may know, and are proving
every day that they are man's equal in intel-
lect if not in strength.  Woman in the past
has not been allowed the privilege to develop
her faculties, but she is now thrusting the bar-
rier aside that has so long checked her intellec-
tual growth, and now stands the peer of man.
The ninteenth century should boast  of the
intellect of woman.  We find her actively en-
gaged in  nearly all the pursuits to which man
is eligible.  I think it is not the weight of the
brain which decides the superiority of the sex,
but the cultivation of it.  Who will deny that
George Eliot  is  an equal and an  able  writer
and  clear  thinker with man?  And Rosa Bon-
heur as  an  artist, Anna Dickenson a lecturer,
Elizabeth  Cady  Stanton  a  woman  who has


achieved an enviable reputation as an espouser
of woman’s rights.  These are only a few, but
they are a positive proof  of  what has been done
and what can be  done.  I  do  not  claim  any
superiority  of the  female  sex, but I feel  con-
vinced, an[-] would that I could convince others,
that  they  are  the equals  of  men.  Accord
them  the  same  privileges, and  we will have
convincing proof.
	Man is born of woman, and receives his in-
tellect from her, and in most cases the mother
trains the boy, and in  almost all instances the
man  will  and  does  acknowledge that  it  was
through his mother’s guiding hand he is what
he is.
	If women follow precisely in the same paths
that men pursue, they will  achieve the  same
success;  but if they are to be subjected to the
little torments which beset the lives of most
women, then the result will be  different.  A
man attends  strictly  to  whatever his mind
choo[-]es,and if a woman should try to, it would
prove an utter impossibility, for if she is mar-
ried, her time is  engrossed with other things,
unless she is financially situated, so that she is
not inconvenienced on that score.  Yet how
many women  can I  name  who  have  reared
families and cultivated the intellect, until they
shine forth as brilliant stars; and we are proud
to know that under the most distressing cir-
cumstances  they  have  proved that they are
man’s equal.  It seems to me that only bigoted 
people will believe in woman’s inferiority.  If
we still continue to advance the next fifty
years as we have in the past, we shall detract
more of their lustre and prove that it is not
quantity but quality which is required.
							NELLIE.


IN MEMORIAM.

 With  feeling  of sadness  we  record the  de-
parture of another loved one.  After suffering
for several years from disease of the heart, So-
phia  Wickens  Freeze,  wife  of J. P. Freeze of
the 11th Ward, passed from earth to  that blest
abode  of rest  and  peace,  on  Friday,  Dec. 19,
1879.  She was born May 1, 1852, and like the
month that gave her birth, she ever shed a
halo of light and love o’er all around.
	She was one of those rare creatures of earth
whose character  was  stamped with  pure wo-
manliness, yet power to grace any avocation of
life.  Though  young  in  years, her devotion
and f[-]ithfu[-]ness  as a mother could not be  ex-
celled.  She was also Counselor in the M. I  A.
of the 11th  Ward, and energetic in all her du-
ties as a  Saint of God.  She leaves one child
and numerous relatives and friends  to  mourn
her early loss.
	"We live in deeds, not years;
	In thoughts, not breaths;
	In feeling, not in figures on a dial.
	He lives most who thinks most,
	Feels the noblest, acts the best.”

	Sophia, queen of song and love.
	Oh, gentle as the springtime dove,
	Pure and chaste in every thought;
	Heavenly light thy soul had taught,
	Inspiring thee to love the right, 
	And to thy friends impart delight.
						I. V. H. 

	We, the members of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
Goshen, Utah County, U. T, respectfully sub-
scribe,this memorial to our departed sister,Clara
Fanny  S. Dall, daughter of the late Henry
David and Fanny S. Dali, of this  place;  she
died, from  the effects of diphtheria,  Jan. 20,
1880, Clara was born in Salt Lake City,
Aug. 6, 1865,died aged 14 years, 5 months and
14 days.
	In memory of our much esteemed and be-
loved sister and co worker, who has, by Divine
Providece, been  removed  by  the  hand of
death; she being a member of the Y. L. M. I.
A. of Goshen.
	Be it resolved  that we, the members of the
Association, deeply mourn her loss, and sym-
pathize  with  the bereaved; mother, relatives
and friends in the loss of so good and esteemed
a friend.
	Resolved, that we tender our heart felt sym
pathy for  the  loss  of  so kind  and amiable a
companion and affectionate daughter.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions, be
transmitted to the mother of the deceased, and
that they be recorded  in  our  general  record,
and also furnished for  publication in the WO-
MAN’S EXPONENT.
	Goodby, dear Clara, we miss thy face,
	Thy loving smile and gentle grace;
	Gone to thy Father on that happy shore,
	Where pain and sorrow thou wilt share no more.
		RACHEL EDWARDS,
		LUCY TAYLOR. 			Committee.
		MILLICENT FERRIS,

	It becomes  our  painful  duty  to  record the
death of one of our oldest citizens.  Sister Ma-
ria  Colebrook peaceably passed away on Feb.
6, 1880.  She was born in Cheltenham, Gloces-
tershire, England, March 21, 1823; was mar-
ried to Charles Colebrook, March 10, 1847.
Arrived in Salt Lake City in 1851, where she
resided until her death.  She had been afflict-
ed for many years  with  that fell  disease, can-
cer, from which she suffered most intensely for
a long time.  She clung tenaciously to life, but
towards the last became quite resigned, and
even desired “to go  to  her rest.” She was re-
markable for her great  deeds  of  charity, often
administering  to the wants of the needy, and
relieving the distressed in a way that the re-
cipients knew not their benefactress. “Peace
to her ashes!” Her example might well be
imitated  by  many who make greater preten-
sions.                                                  E. B.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at Tooele City, Feb. 14, 1880, in child-
birth, Sarah Emma, the beloved wife of Elder
George Crainer, born Oct., 5, 1842, in Nauvoo,
Hancock Co., Ill. Sister Crainer was a good,
faithful  La[-]ter-day S[-]int, and was greatly re-
spected by all who knew her. She leaves a
husband and seven children to mourn her loss.
She has gone to join her little ones and a host
of Saints behind the vail. May God, in His
infinite mercy and goodness, bless the bereaved
and comfort them as He alone can.
		A. TATE.

	DIED, at Goshen, Utah Co., Feb. 11, 1880, of
old age, Mrs. Mary Lewellyn, aged seventy;
five years. Deceased was baptized in 1846-
emigrated to Utah with her children from
Merthyr, Tydvil, South Wales, in the year
1856. Deceased was a faithful member of our
Relief Society, always diligent to her duties,
and was an excellent neighbor; kind and lov-
ing to her children, showing them a good ex-
ample during her widowhood. Her hand was
ever open to relieve the wants of others in
time of need. She died as she lived, true and
faithful in the Gospel of Christ. May we so
live as to depart in p[-]ace, as this onr dear sis-
ter, is my prayer.
		LOUISA TAYLOR.
	DIED, in Clarkston; Cache Co., Utah, Feb.
12, 1880, of chills and lung fever, Batheah


Sparks, wife of William Sparks, and daughter
of David and Margaret Buttars, born July 15,
1851, at Blairgourie, Firthshire, Scotland; emi-
grated with her parents to Utah in 1854. She
leaves a husband and f[-]ur children, a father,
sister and three brothers, and many friend[-], to
mourn her loss. She was a kind and loving
wife, a tender aud affectionate mother. She
was an active teacher in the Relief Society,
and was one who responded cheer[-]ully to every
call. She was loved by all who knew her.
She lived and died in the full f[-]ith of the Gos-
pel, and was resigned to her fa[-]e. The last
words she was heard to utter were, “Tue Lord
giveth and the Lord taketh away, blessed be
the name of the Lord.” Her hopes for eternal
life were bright and glorious.	H. S.

	DIED, at Smithfield, Cache Co, Jan. 28, 1880,
Johann Elizabeth, youngest daughter of Jo-
hann L. and George Y. Smith, aged 13 years.
She was a bright, intelligent girl, and was as-
sistant secretary in the P[-]imary  Association.
Her loss is greatly felt, she was very much be-
loved by all who knew her. She being the
fifth of that family to go in a sho[-]t  time, she
has gone to meet her mother, brothers and sis-
ters, and join their society in a higher sphere.
	M. M. WILLIAMS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	R.S. REPORTS.

	SANTAQUIN	The Relief Society of this place held their
11th, Annual Meeting in the School House,
Nov 13th, 1879. After the usual exercises
of singing and prayer, the minutes and re-
ports, of Relief Society were read, also the
minutes and reports of the Young Ladies
M. I. A. and Primary Associations were
read at the same time, by each one’s Sec’y,
which was very satisfactory to all-present.
On the stand was our Pres. E. J. Stickney,
Sisters E. R. Snow, M. I. Horne and Zina
D. Young,from Salt Lake, also Sisters Agnes
Douglas and Council from Payson,and Bishop
George Halliday, and his Council. Sister
Douglas at the same time organized a Silk
Association. She being the President of
the Southern District of Utah Co, Pres.
Stickney, also chose two new Counselors one
having removed to Arizona the other re-
signing through ill health. The above
named brothers and sisters addressed the
meeting which was a very interesting one, a
good spirit prevailed and much good instruc-
tion was given, it was a meeting that will
long be remembered in Santaquin.
	Closed with the usual exercises. May
the Lord bless you in your labors in doing
good is the prayer of your Sister.
		ELIZABETH CARTER.
	PRIMARY ASSOCIATION.
	The PrimaryAssociation of Santaquin
held their first Annual meeting in the
school house Nov. 15, 1879. There was
present, the President and council of the
Relief Society. Sisters E. R. Snow, M. I
Horne and Z. D. Young of Salt Lake City.
Officers of the Goshen Relief Society and
Bishop Halliday and Counselors and Sec’y.
of the Primary, and quite a number of the
fathers and mothers of the children. The
children sang “Oh, we can’t stay away”
Prayer; singing, “A Welcome,” by 26 little
girls. Sister&nbsp;E. R. Snow addressed the
meeting for a short time, then proceeded to
reorganize the Association with the follow-
in gnamed officers. Miss Serena E. Halliday
President; Mrs. Mary A. Stickney and Mrs.
Rindenia Olson, Counselors; Mrs. Ann J.

[Column 2]
Stickney Sec’y. and Miss Sarah J. Smith
Assistant Secretary; and Master Joseph L.
Olson, Treasurer. Sister Snow asked some
questions which were promptly answered
by the little ones. She gave many good
instructions to all present. Sisters Horne
and Young and Bishop Halliday made brief
and appropriate remarks. The children
sang “I will not steal. Benediction.
	The children partook of a picnic dinner,
and the afternoon was spent in dancing,
singing and reciting by the children. The
exercises closed with short and interesting
remarks by Bishop Halliday Sisters Snow,
Horne and Young. The proceedings of the
whole day will never be forgotten by the
good people of Santaquin.
		Ann J. Stickney.

	SAMARIA, MALAD VALLEY.

	I believe the sisters of Samaria are not
often heard from, but it is not because we
are not trying to do our duty; we care for
the poor here, and are trying, as a band of
sisters, to be united and work for the good
of all. We are trying to carry out the coun-
sel given to store up grain. We take the
EXPONENT in our society, which is read
with much interest by the sisters. The
teachers visit regularly, and their reports
are favorable. We have thirty-two mem-
bers, and our meetings are well attended,
considering the weather and the distance
we have to travel. Our President, Mary
D. Price, got up a Leap Year party on New
Year’s night, for the benefit of the Society.
The ladies bought the tickets and furnished
supper for the gentlemen. The young la-
dies made the Meeting House look a picture
of beauty and cleanliness, which every one
admired when they entered the door. We
had the best music in this valley, and every
one enjoyed themselves famously; every-
thing was peaceable and quiet, and, in
short, our dance was a success.
	We feel like improving intellectually as
well as spiritually, and hope we may indi-
vidually and as a society add our influence
and unite with the Saints in building up:
the kingdom of God.
		MARY H. TOUT, Sec’y.
	Jan. 15, 1880.

                     UTAH STAKE

	Minutes of the Sixth Quarterly Confer-
ence of the Relief Societies of Utah Stake
of Zion, held in the Meeting House, Provo
City, Feb. 13, 1880. Present on the stand,
President Margaret T. Smoot, Counselor
Mary John, with the other members of the
board. Visitor from Salt Lake City, Sister
Zina D. Young; brethren, David John, S.
S. Jones,Bishop Johnson and several others.
J. C. Graham, Editor “Enquirer,” was also
present.
	Meeting opened by singing and prayer.
Minutes of former meeting read by the
Secretary. The reading of the reports
for the quarter then followed, after which
verbal reports from the several presidents
of the Relief Societies of the Stake were
called for.
	Sister John made a few remarks, encour-
aging the sisters in faithfulness and the
discharge of every duty.
	Pres. M. T. Smoot followed with a few
remarks, after which verbal reports were
given by all th[-] presidents present. Our
meeting was very well attended, consider-
ing the inclemency of the weather and the
cars being blockaded by snow so they could
not run on time.

[Column 3]
	Sister Zina D. Young made some very
interesting remarks on various subjects, all
tending to the upbuilding of the kingdom
of God on the earth. Spoke on silk culture,
and exhorted the sisters to be united and
love one another.
	Our afternoon meeting was better attend-
ed than the morning; a number of the
brethren spoke. Bro. John, Bishop John-
son and S. S. Jones each made some very
spirite[-] remarks, eulogizing the sisters for
what they were doing. Spoke of the object
and aims of the societies and the help they
were to the Bishops in the care of the po[-]r
Exhorted th[--] [--] [---] o[-] patience and
mercy. Spoke of the importance of woman
and her mission. Each speaker’s remarks
were fraught with good instruction.
	Our Statistical report is not as full as it
should be, as some of the societies failed to
send in their Statistical report, taking it for
granted that having sent once there was
no need of sending them again, making no
allowances for removals, or deaths, or in-
crease of numbers. Our Statistical and Fi-
nancial reports are as follows:
	Teachers, 236; members, 1503; meetings
held, 69; average attendance, 397; Church
papers, 231; WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 85; total
receipts for the quarter, $658.98; disburse-
ments—poor,  $382.49; Temple, $108.45;
building, $99.35; missionary, $17.80; books,
$215; emigration, $6.75; silk, $50; home
industries, $77 78; sundries, $3.90; P. E.
Fund, $12; cash on hand, $241.68[-] property
on hand, $6,221.96; wheat on hand, 1435 bu.
2 lb.
		MARGARET T. SMOOT, Pres't.
		CAROLINE DANIELS, Sec'y.

WOODS CROSS DAVIS CO.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Believing that you have a great interest
in Relief Societies and all  orgahizations for
the progression of the kingdom of God, we
thought a brief notice of our Relief Society
would not be unwelcome to you. We were
organized on the 1st. of Febuary 1878. We
are very few in number, but united and
desire to do all the good we can for the
furtherance of the work in which we are
engaged. We have labored under many
disadvaniages, having had no convenient
meeting house; and a great part of the time
we had no meeting on account of so much
sickness. But we feel hopeful for the fu-
ture welfare of our society. We have made
several quilts which we desire to sell for the
benefit of our new meeting house. We
have also made a commencement to lay up
grain, having on hand 49, bushels of wheat.
On the Anniversary of our organization the
1st. of Febuary we held a social picnic party
for the society to which the brethren were
invited.
	We had an enjoyable time. Addresses
were given by several of the brethren also
songs and recitations. In the evening we
were joined by the young folks in a dance
which passed off merrily. Ever praying
for the welfare and prosperity of all the
societies, and the cause of Zion we subscribe
ourselves. Your well wisher.
		SUSAN GRANT Pres.
		LUCY D. MUIR Sec’y.

	Hyrum Cacmm Co.

EDITOR EXPONENT.
	It is some time since you received any
communication from us and as our dear
sister N. M. Nielson our Sec’y had
been confined to her home five months


through sickness,  I have deemed it proper
to write to you,and say we are still laboring
for the welfare of Zion; and the good of
those of our sick, aged and poor who look
to us for aid and comfort.
	On Saturday and Sunday Feb. 14, and 15,
a two days Conference  was  held  in this
Ward.
	The Relief,  Young  Ladies  and Primary
Associations  were  reported.  The  Relief
Society had since commencing  the  Logan
Temple donated $510,00 towards its erec-
tion.
	Bishop Liljenquist and the visiting breth-
ren spoke of our labors in terms that were
very gratifying and encouraging to us.
	Our sisters are united with me, and since
our organization  there  never  was  a  time
when we were more united, or a better
feeling existed among us.
	The teachers are very active and are do-
ing  a  good  work.  Sister Lucy Wilson has
charge  of  the  Primary Association  which
have their meetings every Saturday after
noon.
	Miss Harriet Osborn President  over the
ws Y. L. I. A. they meet in joint session every
Saturday evening with the Young Men,and
these meetings have become so interesting,
that our public Hall is crowded to overflow-
ing, and a great and good  work  is  being
done among the youth.
	We are one with our sisters  in  looking
forward to the  time  when  the women of
Utah will not only vote, but be  eligible to
office,
	We intend on our twelfth  Annual  meet-
ing in May next to present  a full and com-
plete financial statement  showing what we
have done since our organization.  It is our
intention to invite  our Sisters  from  Salt
Lake City to meet with us, having profited
so many times by their society and counsels.
	Please accept my kind regards to yourself,
Sisters E. R. Snow, Z. D.  Young and all
who are laboring in the good work.
	Your sister in the Gospel.
		CHRISTINA LILJENQUIST.
Feb. 19, 1880.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


PIPSEY PAPERS.—NO. 11.

	A good book is to the mind what whole-
some food is to the body, it strengthens life
and gives food for reflection.  This may
not be "original" but it is true.  Starving
the mind dwarfs the  intelligence  and nar-
rows the  capacity  for  enjoyment.  The
heart grows selfish  and the burdens of life
accumulate, not, perhaps, in numbers, but
in weight.  The mind is less elastic and
takes more note of trifles, easier vexed and
annoyed. I often  hear  ladies say,  they
cannot  take  periodicals  for  they  have
no  time  to  read.  That is  wrong.  They
have no right to starve  themselves in such
a way.  How  can  they  do  their  duty as
wives and mothers if they encase them-
selves in a shell  of ignorance?  They may
pass their lives in labor and care, their
children may be the cleanest,  and their
homes the neatest, or they may pass it in
crimping their hair and ruflling their dress-
es, what matters it?  These  things  please
the eye, but they pass away, and what re-
mains?
	They fill the measure  of  their lives in  a
degree, and pass off, and who shall rise up
to call them blessed?  True, they have toiled
and  drudged,  they  have  given  of their
strength to the uplifting of  their burdens,
but have they given of their capacity, if
they have failed to cultivate their intel-
ligence?
	How shall they learn of the beautiful
things of life if they know nothing beyond
the gossip of the neighborhood: and, know-
ing so little, how shall they impart wisdom
to their children, or train them for the
higher purposes of life? “How,” says one,
“shall a woman with little  children in  her
arms, and the duties of  life  pressing upon
her, find time to read?” She may not read
lengthy or monotonous works in a compre-
hensive manner,for when the body is weary
the mind is weak, and cannot concentrate
its powers to understand scientific treatises,
or works of magnitude.  She cannot be
benefitted by that which requires profound
thought or deep study.  But that is no rea-
son why a woman should not read.  There
is plenty of reading which is bright and at-
tractive.  Short paragraphs or pleasant pic-
tures of life that may call the attention, and
leave pleasant  impressions on the mind.
Such reading  rests the nerves and invigor-
ates the body.  Some classes  of light  lit-
erature are demoralizing in their  influence
over the  imagination.  They  vitiate the
taste and corrupt the minds of young people.
	There are, however, articles  from  the
pens of our best writers that, although ficti-
tous are true to life; “that point a moral,”
and are in their nature instructive and in-
teresting.  I am not  arguing in favor  of
light reading,  only  suggesting  that  some
classes  of  light  reading  are  beneficial.
While we should not spend our lives simply
in amusement, we should not ignore amuse-
ment entirely.
	How often when we sit down to rest, the
mind is kept  from  repose by reflecting on
annoyances that are past or the duties of the
future: while if we take up some little
reading that is restful and instructive to
attract our attention, be it prose or poetry,
truth or fiction, it gives repose to the mind,
and implants in our hearts a  higher  stand-
ard of life, and an ambition to reach out for
that which is beautifying and  ennobling:
and we arise to our labors rested and refresh-
ed, with food for pleasant  thoughts.  Our
tasks seem lighter and the world looks fair-
er, and everything  partakes of the  bright-
ness and elasticity of our hearts.
	There are those no doubt, having plenty
of time for instructive  reading, who spend
it foolishly.  Who fritter away the precious
moments of life which are given them for a
better purpose, in pampering  pride and
frivolity. Their labors  are  unsatisfactory,
and when age shall come  upon  them  they
will have no store of knowledge to comfort
their  declining  years.  Reading  alone
should not engross  our  time;  there are
many things in practical life that demand
our attention; many  things necessary to
study  in  the  laws  of  progression.  We
should try to keep up with the times in
which we live that we may be interesting
and instructive companions to our young
people.  In that way we can  best  get  an
influence over their minds to guard  them
from the follies and  temptations that sur-
round them.
	A mother has no right  to  consider her
duties done when  her  children can attend
to their personal wants.  She must cultivate
her mind that she may be enabled  to  lead
them on lest they,in their “higher educa-
tion,” go out of her depth and elude  her
grasp.
 To do this is necessary to mingle  some-
what in society; that she may know what
kind of company her children are keeping,
and how to regulate  their  manners and
habits. She should take pains  to have her
mind well informed that she may be able to
instruct and entertain them.  It will give
them a higher estimate of their parents in a
social point of view, and lead them to more
harmonious relations in life.
	A woman should never indulge in what
is commonly called "Novel reading," that
is, the course of reading which swallows
up everything in its eager grasp for excite-
ment, to the detriment of all the higher
duties of life: that causes a woman to sit
down in the “ashes” with her breakfast
dishes on the table, to read some thrilling
adventure  until the clock admonishes her
that it is time to prepare dinner.  She must
finish just one more thrilling episode, and
at last lays down her book,with head aching
and nerves all in disorder, to look around
at her more disordered house: manages to
get on the table an  unappetizing, unsatis-
factory dinner by the time her husband
comes from his work,and, perhaps, to avoid
fault-finding or ill  nature in him  excuses
herself on the plea of headache.  Such read-
ing is demoralizing, and far worse than
none.
	Let us, then, avoid extremes and take a
medium course. Work a little  faster, per-
haps, to gain  time  to  learn  the  current
events of the  day, or  watch  the  rise  and
progress of nations, and learn what is going
on in  the  great  world  around us.  Sub-
scribe for a few choice periodicals, if our
means will admit of it.  Buy a  few  good
books and read them.
	Sketches of history,  Biography, Travels
and other standard  works, not forgetting
the Bible and  Church  works  should fill a
corner of every home, and be most carefully
studied.
							MARY.


﻿AN ADDRESS.

WRITTEN FOR THE JOINT MEETING OF Y.
	L. AND Y. M. M. I. A. OF BLOOMINGTON,
	IDAHO, JAN. 5, 1880.

	Woman’s Rights, or Woman’s Question,
is now assuming extensive proportions, and
should continue to expand until woman’s
power is felt in every department of life.
You cannot take up a paper but you find
the subject presented in its different phases.
occasionally you will find a man who has
independence and good judgment sufficient
to defend our position and advocate our
claims; while again you will find a class of
men who secretly admire a woman who has
intelligence and independence enough to
maintain and contend for her rights, but
fear we might peradventure try to usurp
their rights or that we were stepping just
a little out of our sphere, thus preventing
them from defending our position and
claims. There is still another class of men
who come out quite fierce, and rabid against
Woman’s Rights. This class have wonder-
ful imaginations, and picture in the most
glowing colors a home neglected, children
running around with unkempt hair, stock-
ings abbreviated, or as some would call it a
footless stocking without a leg, as the con-
sequences or results of a woman daring to
think, or allowing her mind to soar higher
than the roof of her own house. But this
is going to the extreme, as even men often
allow themselves to go.
	Now, the first class mentioned we appre-
ciate, owing to the scarcity of such. To
the second class of men we would say, be
bold, come to the front, as it is not our in-
tention to try to eclipse, or to usurp your
rights, but simply to hold and claim our
own. The third class of men we would
disabuse of some of their erroneous views,
by letting them know that we do not pur-
pose to enter into any subject, or enterprise,
to the disregard of home comfort, or to the
discomfort of husbands and children.
	We claim that woman can exercise her


intellectual faculties, and  that  to the mate-
rial benefit of her  offspring,  without  being
stigmatized  as  strong-minded.  It would
be a poor  specimen  of a  man  who would
prefer a weak-minded woman, if permitted
the term, which is only  opposite  to the
other. We should be  allowed to  express
our opinions, and have a perfect right to
those opinions, providing we bring argu-
ment to bear in support of them.  All this
can be  done and  still make home the most
attractive place to our husbands.  We would
repeat that we  don't wish, I say  we, for I
know it would meet with a hearty response
in the hearts of all the ladies present, to
put the rights of the sterner sex in the
shade, but simply to claim that woman was
created for a nobler purpose than devoting
all her time to common drudgery; and all
the compensation for this  is  our  husband's
protection.  Now, we do not wish to scorn
their protection, in fact, we would hardly
like to confess  how highly we prize  it; all
we wish is to claim it from an intelligent
standpoint.  True, they are all willing to
concede to us the right to marry, and some-
times I am tempted to think that they are
prompted  to  that  from  selfish  motives,
namely, self-comfort.  Perhaps they would
like to argue that point.
	The ladies of Utah have sent in a petition
to  the Legislative Body  now  assembled,
praying the passage of a bill, or some enact-
ment, that will remove the obstacle now in
the way of woman holding office.  Now,
that we hold as one of woman's rights, pro-
videing she is as well qualified, and has as
large a brain as her contestant for that office,
and the same compensation I consider her
right for the performance of that trust.
	The unmarried  ladies  and  widows of
Idaho Territory  are  allowed  to  vote  for
School Trustees, or anything  pertaining to
school interests, and we hope that the full
right of suffrage  will be  ours at no distant
day.					L. M. Hart.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


AN ADDRESS.

CONCLUDED.
 Last winter the legislature of Massachu-
setts passed a bill allowing women to vote
on school questions--and already, thousands
of the best and most intelligent  women in
that state are  registering,  and  many have
already assisted at school elections.  In the
Mo. Legislature last session, several women,
of St. Louis, were sent as delegates  to  the
Assembly to present arguments in  favor of
amendments, giving the  right  of  suffrage
to women.  They were courteously received
and listened to.  Several gentlemen  spoke
in support of their arguments.  Among the
number,  Major  Merwin,  editor  of  the 
American Journal of Education and Rev.
Dr. Eliot, of St. Louis,  President  of the
Washington University.  Last winter Con-
gress recived  petitions for a 16th  Amend-
ment to the Constitution, giving the ballot
to women, signed by tens of  thousands of
honest and intelligent  women from every
state in the Union--and they  were not all
sour old maids  either--but most of them
loving, home-keeping mothers.
 For over four years the women of Wyom-
ing have voted, and the experiment seems
to be  attended with no startling  results.
Judge Kingman says, "That since the wo-
men  vote  in Wyoming that rowdyism
and drunkeness are banished from the polls,
and that the best classes of women take an
interest in the elections  without creating a
ripple in the home circle."  As a temper-
ance measure the same high authority con-
siders the ballot in woman's hand indispen-
sible.
The able minority report of Senators Hoar,
Mitchell and Cameron may be regarded as
a very marked indication  of the  progress
of our work.  There is no shutting  your 
eyes to the truth, that the thinking women
of America, from Abagail Adams, of nearly
a hundred years ago, down are not satisfied
with the old order of things, but insist that
the very spirit of our so called free institu-
tions, demands for our sex, perfect equality
without which is mockery to talk of a free
country, or a free people.
 Twenty years ago the enthusiastic Aboli-
tionist who predicted  the  emancipation of
the colored men on  this  continent, in less
than a decade, was considered insane and 
today many of you may think the  cause I
advocate equally hopeless, but I a mfirmly
convinced, that the dawn of the new cen-
tury will find the question settled and wo-
man clothed  with  the  full  powers,  and
privileges of citizenship.  You men of Holt
County, will soon have an opportunity to
place yourselves on record.  See to it  that
you come with clean hands, clear heads, and
pure motives to try our case, remember we
can really do nothing without  your assist-
ance and if you use the reason  God  has
given  you,  to  weigh  and  measure  our
claims, you must see that only one course is
open to you.  Mothers train your sons to
feel that their first vote will be but another
blow for your enfranchisment.  Teach your
daughters to struggle now, and forever for
the God given right, to life liberty and the
pursuit of happiness in her own way, bear-
ing in mind that we can  have no power to
protect ourselves  from  unjust  taxation, or
unequal laws, until we have our political
disabilities removed.  We can never realize
the full idea of a representative government,
while such  women  as  Maria Mitchell the
astornomer or Anna Dickenson the  orntor,
may be represented by a bundle  of  newly
arrived foreign  ignorance, or a drunken
negro outvotes  the queen of the  rostrum,
and so on down to the millions  of quiet
home loving women who want a voice at
least on the whiskey question.  That the
revolution we ask  for, will bring  some
changes no one can doubt, but knowing in
whom, and what they have believed  new
seas of agitation can have no perils for those
who sail  by the compass  of truth.  The
same law which holds oceans in its bed, and
planets in their courses will inspire  those
two mysterious sovereigns we call man and
woman to transact their gayest, and gravest
affairs with no jar or hurt, but mutual bene-
fit to each other and perpetual help to all
mankind.
The coming woman will be no masculine
femininity or the opposite, but with greater
physical vigor of finer tiber, she  will  bring
melting tenderness, mental force, and moral
rectitude such as our  country  vainly sighs
for elsewhere.
Then friends of the sterner sex, read and
ponder well, before you cast your vote on
this great question and give us a fair ver-
dict.  We are not trying to buy, or beg  or
steal your influence, but as you already pos-
sess  and  enjoy  the  highest privileges of
citizenship, we ask  you not  to  perpetuate
our subjection, through wilful ignorance.


[Column 1]
NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
[-]ive hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
[-]ngs, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies
Ties, Cu [-] anCollars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
[-]oods. Etc., Etc.

[Column 2]
DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
OFFICE-Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
[---] has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of 
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

A LARGE STOCK
OF HOME MADE TRUNKS for sale by JOHN C. CUT-
LER, Agent of the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building, also Home-Made
[List with three columns]
[Column 1]
Blankets,
Flannels,
Shawls,
Linseys,
Jeans,
[Column 2]
Brown Yarn,
White Yarns,
Colored Yarns,
Cassimeres,
Tweeds,
[Column 3]
Cotton Batting,
Wool Batting,
Brooms,
Washboards,
Brushes, &c.

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Vel[-]et.  Also a nice
selection in flowers, Feathers, P[-]ushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes Country dealers,
please call Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special departments for Gent's Clothing
and Carpets, Ladies and Children's Shoes,
Dry Goods, Shawls and Domestics,
Groceries, Hardware and Stoves.

DRIED FRUITS of all CLASES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
	JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City. 97 Kimball Block.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE.
IF not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and without any noise and confu-
sion, although the rate of speed is very high  I[-]s s[--]-
setting and self threading hu[-]tle, and absence of springs
and cogs renders i[-] both [-]imple and durable. Be s[-]re to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend.
Victor Sewing Machine Co., Chicago, III.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
[-]ABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79 First South St., S. L. C


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1880.


THE WOMEN OF UTAH.

	The Woman’s Bill having failed to become  law for
lack of the Governor's signature, the women of Utah still
deem it proper to return their thanks to the members of
the late Legislature, who so ably advocated their cause,
and through whose efforts "The Woman’s Bill" passed
both houses.

	The Women of Utah God bless them,
		Are often accounted as fools;
	But they kneel not to those who oppress them.
		And they scorn to be handled as tools.

	We thank you, Oh wise legislators,
		For the right you upon us conferr’d;
	'Twould be courtesy, p'rhaps, to say favor—
		But justice or right is the word.

	We thank you, although our petitions
		For a time may be laid on the shelves;
	You have tried to improve our condition,
		And have truly exalted yourselves.

	'Tis true that the Women of Utah
		Deserve something handsome from men;
	And not as a gift should we take it,<j"hav9 earned="" it,="" again="" and="" again.="" yet="" we="" perfectly="" know="" lhatull="" justice;="" for="" women="" is="" hard="" to="" obtain;="" wo’ve="" had="" pity="" enough="" disgust="" us,="" but="" justice="" la="" all="" that="" claim.="" i="" ;="" '="" f="" contend="" not="" honor="" or="" credit.="" will="" give="" w="" the="" two:="" tls="" truth,="" though="" a="" woman="" has="" said="" ot="" tj="" tab="" are="" true.="" iru'-="" 4;tst<vjf="" ts="" trnp.td="" tljelr="" god="" their="" conscience',="" .="" thelr="" bu3bani3,jpnd.children="" asjren;.="" ,..="" tb.ey="" wll="" 1="" al="" way="" he,="" true="" the.l="" r'="" pountry-r,="" t,="" v.="" "="" ir="" country="" .won’t="" make="" thpn="" rebel.’="" r.="" they="" cara="" fogflubllp="" opinion,="" ,="" t="" j41j="" .'.ji.'="" %="" p)ce,="" thojjcare="" right!="" ..="" (t.‘="" 'tneylutrespasson'nopian’sdotollmob;'="" nor,="" perhaps,="" wilt="" accept="" what="" might.="" 4="" generouiaa="" byave,="" never="" doubt="" tem,="" nun="" 'they="" ban="" tbl'pgs="" endure="" when="" ihey="" try;="" -="" ’="" h:.‘="" there="" only="" thlvdvdwbactc="" about="" ibem—:'‘="" ‘r="" c-lft="" if'="" suffer,="" want="" to.="" why.="" :i="" fl="" .i="" y,wb!iiearthencf&fendtrueinsd;,="" i%="" -29="" 'of'the="" hardy="" bbld="" pioneers-="" s="" -tm="" yu="" sing-ot="" brave-hearted="" womeur-="" '!;="" who="" brightened="" those="" wearisome="" years,="" .t;="" ti"%hey’maynot="" behandaome="" as="" fairies,'="" ‘hit="" vn="" forendurance="" aubeauty="" doth="" test;,.="" h="" in="" footed="" tip?="" broad,="" pathlpss="" pralrjes,="" build="" up="" homen="" west...="" it.="" u:="" desolate="" places,="" i,="" vv="" -1.="" ,-,r'="" l.where="" ecarcoly="" a'whlte="" man="" trodf="" .ifi="" mv="" o;(jth'e'y="" uved="" stuythe="" graces,="" ofi="" tbpttowork,aiwpwp1fh?‘t="" n="" oiljwhat!to.them="" wasjhe="" style="" thp.ashlonzij;onml="" beauty="" delight;="" this="" alone="" was="" thelj="" (jod-lnsplred="" passion—="" 3="" hunger="" freedom="" right.="" yes,="" troe-bearted="" oflutah="" have="" suffered="" liberty's="" cause;="" 7?="" f,:they="" nolbnly="" deserve'local="" justice;'="" “="" r“="" ‘="" bu€theyrowohbythe="" hatidn’s’applauso'.to="" luo="" con="" wfad1="" tfrpmen="" of="" utabj="" ‘r-<i="" u'="" ‘.u="" -91r'deserve="" from="" the'nation1="" fee?:'="" rn="" io="" helping="" buildup="" &="" country,="" -"="" -ri0jt'’="" ’:="" fyy:="" that.thvprlde="" thq.nati9nwlll.be="" td="" our="" gold="" silver-veined="" mountains,="" <'="" 1,="" hi="" arelreasuros,.exhau8tiesaandnew;="" f)="" raw="" ptreamsj="" fomthelrjmre="" orystalpuntalns="" 0((.="" flow,="" sparkling$ndresh="" a3="" the.="" dojr.="" ni="" tbm="" truly="" magblflcept="" basin="" “thesaltpt;="" th?.earthmbhal1contan;="" r="" '!;j="" treaauro="" gjjrtdles="" meawlll.hasten,="" .?i="" sllver="" gofd,tb="" obtain.="" tjtt.theywillcpmafogour-wenderfulwaters,="" ,v="" y="" scenes="" most="" superb="" and.subume;="" come="" wit-their="" sons="" .daughters="" heauhful'ahd="" beautiful="" clime.0="" 'ljl'="" 'if&liv-1.'="" v:="" '.nl="" !="" ji="" wf-3="" uttermost="" nations,.="" '“‘as="" declared="" by="" prophets="" old;="" tbey="" wlil="" coma="" hero="" life="" salvation="" -ivand="" peace,="" better="" than="" gold;="" grandest="" designer="" reserved="" hli="" people="" place;'="">
		We have earned it, again and again.

	Yet we perfectly know that full justice
		For women is hard to obtain;
	We've had pity enough to disgust us,
		But justice is all that we claim.

	We contend not for honor or credit,
		For justice will give us the two:
	'Tis the truth, though a woman has said it,
		That the women of Utah are true.

	Are true to their God and their conscience,
		To their husbands and children as well;
	They will always be true to their country--
		If their country won't make them rebel.

	They care not for public opinion,
		Or place, but they care for the right;
	They will trespass on no man's dominion,
		Nor, perhaps, will accept what they might.

	They are generous as brave, never doubt them,
		They can all things endure when they try;
	There is only this drawback about them--
		If they suffer, they want to know why.

	We hear of the noble and true men,
		Of the hardy and bold pioneers;
	I'll sing of the brave-hearted women--
		Who brightened those wearisome years.

	They may not be handsome as fairies,
		For endurance all beauty doth test;
	But they footed the borad, pathless prairies,
		To build up a home in the West.

	To build up the desolate places,
		Where scarcely a white man had trod;
	They lived not to study the graces,
		But to work, and to worship their God.

	What to them was the style or the fashion?
		Though in beauty all women delight;
	This alone was their God-inspired passion--
		The hubger for freedom and right.

	Yes, the true-hearted women of Utah
		Have suffered in liberty's cause;
	They not only deserve local justice;
		But they're worthy the nation's applause.

	I contend that the women of Utah,
		Deserve from the nation a fee;
	For helping to build up a country,
		That the pride of the nation will be.

	In our gold and our silver-veined mountains,
		Are treasures, exhaustless and new;
	Our streams, from their pure crystal fountains
		Flow sparkling and fresh as the dew.

	This truly magnificent basin
		"The salt of the earth" shall contain;
	To our tresure girt vales men will hasten,
		Our silver and gold to obtain.

	They will come for our wonderful waters,
		For scenes most superb and sublime;
	They will come with their sons and their daughters
		To our healthful and beautiful clime.

	They will come from the uttermost nations,
		As declared by the Prophets of old;
	They will come here for life and salvation,
		And for peace, that is better than gold.

	We know that the Grandest Designer
		Reserved for His people this place,
	But we'll welcome the brave, honest miner,
		And the good and the true of our race.

	That the Mormons developed this country,
		And thus helped the nation, all know;
	And half of this debt to the women
		Of Utah the nation must owe.

	But our case has so sorely perplex'd them,
		We will cancel their debt and atone.
	Alas! we have married and vexed them
		But we fancied the grief was our own.

	The women of Utah!  God bless them!
		Are often accounted as fools;
	But they kneel not to those who oppress them,
		And they scorn to be handled as tools.
					EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City, Feb., 1880.


[Column 1]
	WITTY PEOPLE.

	BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD
		E. W. Wells

	"Life is real-life is earnest" said the poet
which is all very true, and should be duly
appreciated, but nevertheless, we must
have a vien of humor to relieve the con-
stant strain of duties, cares and burdens
that necessarily cast a sombre shade over
life’s path-way, and were it not that some
happy incident, trivial in itself, yet ludi-
crous, occurs now and then, we might get
long-faced and sterotyped, in view of the
great responsibilities that attend our daily
lives.
	We want humor in all the departments
of life; deep thinkers,sober-staid counselors,
men and women of impassioned eloquence
and sound judgment are all good and essen-
tial to the well being of comunnities, but
after all, if wit, humor and the comic is
interspersed,then the seasoning is furnished
and the different varieties garnished,which
is quite as necessary to make things pala-
table as the more substantial.
	Who pray tell me does not like a good
joke, (at some one else’s expense?) Who
does not enjoy a sharp critticism well-timed?
And who indeed does not like to indulge now
and then in innocent mirth?
		A little nonsense now and then,
		Is relished by the best of men.”
	And woman too, I should have  added
had I written i[-], for women really do stand
in need of something to brighten their toil 
and monotony in the midst of  domestic
cares; and often,though perhaps I ought not
to tell it the call of a cheerful friend who
comes with gossip only, is hailed with joy
as a sort of temporary relief.
	I confess a weakness for funny people,those
who always have an answer ready on every
occasion,whatever the question may be, and
who possess the charming faculty of making
people laugh whether they will, or no.
Kind readers you may think there is very
little sound philosophy in this sort of thing,
but I assure you on my honor, as-well, as a
woman, that it is true philosophy and I
can, prove it too,that is to my satisfaction.
	I always had a sort of admiration  for
peoplewho could say very funny things; and
when I was a child, and everything about
the house was very prim and precise after
the old Puritanic style, where nothing
must be put out of place, I would hie me

[Column 2]
away to the fields to break the restraint,
and talk to myself in the grand, old woods,
where my merry childish tones were re-
echoed again and again, in richer melody,
and something seemed to whisper to me
ever so softly, from the tops of the  tall.
pine trees; Shall I tell you what it said?
Well,yes. Sometimes it said "be happy
while the sun shines and the birds carol;
and all nature is gay and smiling." And I
felt sure the daisies heard it too, for they
nodded back sweetly, and the proud lilies
blushed, redder than ever, and the babbling
tell-tale brook echoed it merrily, as it
danced gleefully along skipping laughingly
over the sparkling pebbles and shining sands
	I have often thought how nice it would 
be to have some of the Irish people with
their native wit and real genuine humor
scattered here and there just to brighten
things up generally.
	And now for a little philosophy; I might
tell you some anecdotes by way of illustra-
tion but will forbear this time and only give
a little experience of my own. When
we were traveling across the plains, jour-
neying to these "happy valleys" we had
with us a good old fashioned Welsh woman
whom we all designated “grandma” and
she kept us in almost perpetual good hu-
mor with her comical jokes and fun. No
matter how serious the obstacles were in
our way, she could always see the funny
side of everything, and many a time she
has made me laugh when I was about to
cry, thereby not only making things more
pleasant and easier to bear, but saving me
from many a nervous head ache. I often
remarked she was the life of the company, 
for she never seemed at a loss for a joke,
and possessed that peculiar tact which kept
her from ever giving any offence, however
close home her witticisms come.
	What a dry, prosy world this would be
without any of the freshness and vivacity 
of merry people; and one would always
rather laugh than  cry  if possible. It is
better to be goodnatured or gay than to pull
a long face and make one’s self and friends
miserable. There are troubles, trials and
difficulties enough without courting gloom,
and so we say “be happy” and try to make
others so, and cultivate the rare gift of 
giving pleasures to others innocently. 
	Writing sparkling, witty,brilliant articles
might be the means of diffusing happiness,
and a story that will make you laugh, and 
at the same time has a good moral is worth
much more than a sensational.  or lacka-
daisical one. Public speakers often make 
strong impressions by funny anecdotes
which engrave the ideas they wish to
convey upon the mind, and this recalls to
my recollection one funny little story, which 
being a woman I would like to tell. It is
the story of a peddler and a miller’s wife. 
“The, miller used to enforce upon his wife
the doctrine that men always know better 
what, was good for women, than women
could know for themselves: and so the poor
woman whenever the peddler came to the
door, took all the goods he urged upon her,
because she was only a woman, and he was
a man and knew best. The miller had to
pay the bill; unfortunately he did not see
that it was only the fulfillment of his own 
doctrine.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

A CONTENTED WIFE.

	I wish my readers to understand that I
am not an office-seeker, but the very oppo-
site—am as happy a wife and mother as
generally falls to the lot of woman. I love
my home, and believe that I am acting in
my sphere, and a noble one, too; but is this
a proof that woman should have no other
aspirations, that she should always be satis-
fied with working at home, within a nut-
shell as it were, and not daring to look
higher than the roof of her own domicile?
No;  there is not a woman of any spirit that
could feel satisfied, much less a true Latter-
day Saint, whose mind has been expanded
by the light of the everlasting Gospel. We
know that Eve was first to partake of the
tree of knowledge, which the Bible declares
"made them as Gods;" and that Adam was
subject to the fall as well as she; and we
know that when God in His tender mercy
sees fit to take the curse from man he will
from woman. If the minds and intellects
of women have been blunted, so have those
of men in proportion. Thousands who
have had the talents have not had the op-
portunity to improve upon them. I confess
that before reading the various articles pub-
lished in our dailies upon woman's disabili-
ties, I had felt but little interest in the
matter; not that I was ignorant of the fact
that for generations women have been
looked upon by the majority of men just
as any other surplus article would be. The
supply exceeds the demand, and therefore
they have been treated with far less respect
and consideration than most men would like
to have shown to their beasts. The little
value put upon woman has had the effect of
lowering her in her own estimation for
generations past, and has been one great
cause of the degradation of so many thou-
sands. How many have been driven to
lives of shame by want and starvation star-
ing them in the face! And how many an
innocent, but thoughtless girl has been led
from virtue's path by wolves in sheep's
clothing, who promised always to love and
cherish her; but instead have deserted and
left her, friendless and alone, to the mercy
of a cold and unfeeling world, and after a
few useless struggles, she, finding her char-
acter forever ruined, sinks to rise no more;
while the fiends in human shape are allowed
to associate with the good and pure, moving
in the best society, and are considered fit
husbands for pure, innocent girls, and to
hold any office, from the President down!
I have not the time nor space, if I had the
disposition, to tell the different causes for
woman's fall; but I ask, in the name of con-
science and humanity, how sensible and
honorable men can be so blind, or wonder
that woman should at last rise with a fixed
determination to break the shackles that
have so long bound her, and become free,
and man's equal instead of his slave.
	Many years ago some good angel whis-
pered to me that there was a brighter day
dawning for woman. I could not tell how
it was coming, but from that time I have
felt perfectly satisfied that the Lord would
bring it about in His own due time and in
His own way. I had never thought of the
franchise being given to woman, much less
did I expect that they would petition for
the removal of woman's disabilities; the
very mention of such a thing would have
shocked me. But since reading and reflect-
ing upon the subject, and the condition of
the human family, my eyes have been
opened, and I see the hand of an offended
God reaching out to the assistance of His
patient and long suffering daughters, who
have endured enough under the rule of

[Column 2]

ungodly men. He has heard and taken
cognizance of the cries of the millions of
suffering women and children, and has
turned the tide which is increasing daily in
power and influence, and nothing this side
of heaven can stay its progress; and weak
man would do well to note it, and under-
stand that our Heavenly Father, when He
gave him power to rule, intended that he
should do it in righteousness instead of
which he has taken advantage of his privi-
leges, and God will hold him accountable
for it; and until man is willing to acknowl-
edge woman as his equal, and allows her to
stand by his side and have a voice in all
matters that concern the welfare of women
as well as men, he need not expect to be
prospered. And if I had not received a
testimony that God had set His hand for
the last time to accomplish His purposes, I
might fear that the work of regenerating
and redeeming the human family would
prove a failure. I certainly believe that it
will continue to make slow progress until
His servants and handmaidens are willing
to work together in harmony. We are
continually taught that we must become
one in all things, and many who preach this,
will in the next breath (figuratively speak-
ing) ridicule and sneer at the idea of wo-
man's aspiring to become his equal.
	One of the great objections raised to wo-
men holding office is that they would be
subjected to hearing rough and insulting
language, which would be very revolting
to any lady; but if courts have become such
low pits as they seem willing to admit,
would it not be worth the trial to give
ladies the opportunity of cleansing them?
I think that the presence of the refining
influence of women would soon purify the
atmosphere of a court house, or any other
place. I can testify that a great change has
been wrought at the polls since ladies re-
ceived the franchise, and there were many
at that time who predicted that we would
disgrace ourselves. The Prophet Joseph
said that the sisters were always first in all
good works, and we would advise every
brother who feels frightened at the thought
of their stepping out of their place, and
may be into his, to go into his closet and
shut the door, and ask the Lord to show
him "woman's sphere." They remind
me of the unbelieving world, who refuse to
investigate our principles and condemn us
without a hearing. I am confident that
God will have respect for His handmaids,
who have willingly bowed their necks to
the yoke, proving their integrity by their
works, their long-suffering and patience
through scenes such as are past the under-
standing of man. Her labors and sacrifices
for the exaltation of others as well as her-
self ought to be remembered and rewarded
with at least the confidence of brethren;
and I believe that when the proper time
comes the Lord will inspire their hearts
to do them justice. I feel to acknowledge
His hand in all things, and to unite my
faith with the honest in heart that He will
reveal His will to those whom we have
covenanted to sustain. I feel to honor them
and also those who have had the moral
courage and firmness to stand up in the face
of ridicule and defend the cause of the
sisters, whose names are now spoken evil
of, but will yet be honored, as are the wo-
men whose acts contributed greatly to the
success of the war of independence. We
have had plenty of examples in our own
eventful history to prove what women of
the right type are capable of doing; and
the men who are so egotistical as to believe
us all to be such dependent creatures, should 
read the lives of some of the "Women of

[Column 3]

Mormondom," who have learned by sad
experience to trust in God and not in man.
"Cursed is he who maketh flesh his arm,"
and those who have done this have been
overthrown. So let us all see that our faith
is not built upon a sandy foundation.
	Every mother who understands her mis-
sion will try to train up her children in the
way that they should go, that they may be-
come bright and shining lights; but do not,
in your anxiety to have them excel, forget
what you owe to yourself; for, if you aspire
to nothing above housework, and trying to
make home comfortable and inviting to the
inmates thereof, they are apt, in their up-
ward course to honor and fame, to look upon
you as the one intended by Providence to
serve them. Let mothers early impress
the truth upon the minds of their children,
and instead of encouraging their boys in
false notions, show them the inconsistencies
of one sex being superior to the other,
when both are born of the same mother.
God is an impartial Being, and created wo-
man for as noble a purpose as He did man;
and I am thankful that there are a few who
are honest and generous enough to acknowl-
edge it. Such men are deserving and will
always command the love and respect of
every good and noble woman.
		H. M. W.
	S. L. City, Feb. 23, 1880.


R. S. REPORTS.
MIDWAY.
Our Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement
Associatian was organized in 1878, under
the direction of Miss E.R. Snow. The 
following are the  officers  now acting: Ma-
tilda  Jacobs, President; Mary Watkins and 
Margaret  Abplanalp, Counselors;  Jane  Al-
der,  Secretary;  Elizabeth, Coleman, Trea-
surer. 
	We hold our meetings once in two weeks;
our exercises consist of select readings from
the Church works and other good books,
recitations, essays, compositions.  We also
hold monthly meetings conjointly, with  the
Young Men's Association, at which  the  ex-
ercises are  still more extensive and enter-
taining. 
	We edit a monthly paper, entitled "The
Star  of  Hope,"  containing  compositions,
essays, poetry, &c.  Our  Association  num-
bers in all  forty-three; the average attend-
ance is twenty-five.
 We desire with the help of  the Lord to
do some good, and be co-workers with the 
brethren to help on the Latter-day work, and 
hope that we may continue  faithful to the
end. 
			MATILDA JACOB, Pres't.


ON Saturday,  March 6,  an  interesting
concert was given in Farmington meeting
house by the  Primary  Association  of  that
place, under  the  supervision of  Mrs. Aure-
lia  S.  Rogers and her counselors, at which
Sisters E. R. Snow  and Z.D. Young were
present by invitation, The Farmington P.
A. was the first one organized, and it has
been effective  of  great  good  in  work and
influence. We have before us a programme
of the concert, which we shall publish in
full in our next issue, partly for the benefit
of other  associations  who  may like  some
hints on this subject.  Every day encourag-
ing reports reach us of these  organizations
among the young, and it is a great satisfac-
tion to  know  that the  children  are  being
carefully instructed in the proper channel.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FAITH.
	O world unknown!  O world unseen!
	In which, my spirit, soon will be,
	Could I but pierce the veil between
	This slowly fading world and thee!

	Could I but catch, though faint and dim, 
	One glimpse of thine immortal shore, 
	One note of that celestial hymn
	That angels sing forever more!

	Could but one voice the silence break, 
	That doth encompass, thee around; 
	And in the breathless stillness wake
	The faintest echo of a sound!

	If in the darkness I might trace,
	-Bright with a glory borne of thee.
	The shadowy outline of a face,
	Or a dear hand stretched out to me!

	Catch but one whisper, one pale gleam;
	Of light eternal, just a touch
	Of some one gone before - twould seem
	To my poor soul so much; so much!

	But Faith alone, with brow serene,
	Stands by my side and points the way;
	And all the drifted clouds between
	Grow bright and luminous as day.

	Her voice through all the spaces rings,
	A triumph o'er death's awful calm;
	And my glad soul responsive sings,
	An answer to her joyful psalm.

	Her strong arm lifts me far above,
	Into a realm of purer air; 
	I feel a sweet, sustaining love,
	That will go with me everywhere. 

	O heavenly Faith, with me abide!
	Forsake me not, thou truest friend;
	Do thou but lead, O fearless guide!
	And I will follow to the end.

	For thou hast wide the portals thown, 
	And through thy blessed eyes I see
	The glory of that world unknown.
	Where my freed spirit soon will be.
						G.A. KARRICK.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

		CEDAR CITY TRON CO.
	EDITOR EXPONENT: The following report
of the first Quarterly Stake Conference, of
the Relief Societies of the Parowan Stake
of Zion, which was held in the  Meeting
House at Parowan on Saturday and Sunday
Feb. 14 and 15th,1880. Convened at 10.30.
A. M. and was opened with the usual
exercises.
	Sister Ellen W. Lunt President and
Sister Mary Anne Lunt and Huldah A.
Mitchell Counselors, The Presidents of the 
several Relief Societies of the Stake were
president as also Pres. Wm. H. Dame and 
counselors Henry Lunt and Samuel Orton,
Bihops Bayliss, Wm. C. McGreger, J. E.
Dally and C. J. Arthur and others of the
Priesthood, were also present by invitation
of the sisters. Pres. Lunt stated the busi-
ness of the Conference, and that we had not 
come to give any special instruction but  to
mingle our voices and rejoice together.
The condition of the various ward Societies
were reported verbally by Presidents Emma
Smith, Sage T. Jones and Eliza Barton, of 
the Parowan, Cedar and Paragoonah Wards.
Verbal reports were also given of the Y. L.
M. I. Associations of the same place, by
Sisters Cedenia Smith, M. A. Lunt and
Mrs. Barton, all of which were represented
to be in favorable condition and good stand-
ing.
	After the opening of the afternoon session
the Secretary of the Stake read the Finan-
cial and Statistical reports of each Ward-
comprising Parowan Cedar Parogoonan
and Summit—which showed that the So-
cieities were in a flourishing condition, after
which Pres. Lunt said,in consequence of Bro.
Jesse N. Smith having been called to move
to Arizona, it became our duty to release

[Column 2]

Sister Emma Smith from the Presidency
of the Parowan Branch of the Relief Society,
also her counselors,one of whom had already
moved to Arizona, which was accordingly
done by the voice of the Conference, and a
vote of thanks given them for their past
labors. The Society was then reorganized
with Sister Augusta Mitchell, President;
and Sisters' Mary Stevens and Cornella
Mortenson Counselors.
	Very excellent remarks were made by
Sisters' A. M. Lunt H. Mitchell, Emma
Smith,Mary Wimmer,Sage T. Jones and M.
A. Untbank, upon our duties as Saints of the 
Most High, training of children and the
benefit derived through Primary Associa-
tions They also bore testimony to the
truth  of the principle of plural marriage
etc. Conference adjourned till Sunday 10,
A. M. when after the usual exercises of
singing and prayer, a Primary Association
was organized with one hundred and fifty-
nine members. Sister Mary Durham,
President and Sister Meta K. Rasmussen
and Ann Towler counselors.
	The names of Sister Eliza R. Snow as
President of all the Relief Societies, and 
the officers of the Parowan Stake Society
were put before the Conference and unani-
mously sustained as were also the officers of 
the various Ward Societies. The Sisters who
had been chosen to preside over the Relief
Society and Primary Association of Parowan
were then set apart. Appropriate remarks
were made during the Conference by Pres.
Dame, H. Lunt and Elder Wm. Marsden a 
general good feeling prevailed and the 
blessing of God attended us. Conference
was adjourned, at noon, till the 24th and
25th, of May, 1880, to be held at Cedar
City. It was adjourned thus early in con-
sequence of the sudden death of the little
daughter of our Secretary, who was taken
ill on Saturday evening with violent
spasms which continued until her strength
was exhausted and at 5 o'clock on  Sunday
morning her spiait returned to God who
gave it.
	"The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh
away and blessed be the name of the Load.
	The sad occurrence cast a gloom over the
feelings of the people who were full of
sympathy and kindness to the bereaved
ones.
	A Primary Association was organized in
this place Feb. 7, 1880, with Sister Mary
Stewart President and Sarah Chatterley and
Josephine C. Wood Counselors with 92
members. At a meeting 29 others were
enrolled making a total of 121. Donald C.
Stewart was appointed Secretary and
Charlotte A. Chatterly assistant secretaay,
Edward Jones Palner, Treasurer.
	Ever praying for your prosyerity and 
success in the noble work in which you are
engaged.
	SARAH CHATTERLEY, Sec'y.


[Column 1]

A FEW MORE WORDS ON THE WO-
MAN QUESTION.

	I presume that ere this you are over run
with woman's writings on the above ques-
tion. If not, I should like to see a few of
my thoughts and ideas on the subject in 
print for the perusal of those who are inter-
rested in the same. I am living in the 
country and do not know who all our op-
posers are; but I have been led to exclaim:
"Surely they are not all Mormons, who
thus seek to bring into ridicule the ladies
names who petitioned the Legislature for 
some  enactment removing woman's
political disabilities. Ladies who command
so much respect, and whose names are so

[Column 2]

illustratious among this People." These
ladies have been called upon to stand in the 
pulpit, before learned, gifted and experienced
men, of this community; and they have,
with womanly grace, queenly dignity, and 
earnest zeal, which  woman always feels for 
the welfare of her fellow beings, sought to
enlighten, to elevate, in short, to persuade
this people to live lives of purity, and to
prepare themselves to dwell in the Celestial
Kingdom of God. Their words have pen-
etrated the hearts of their hearers, making 
impressions that cannot be effaced.
	Can they fear that,if woman were granted
equal political rights with man, she would
lose her reason and judgment,and that all the 
people would become insane and try to rush
women into office for which they are unfit-
ted, both by circumstances and nature?
	What woman with common sense, to say
nothing of the tender ties of motherhood,
could leave her family of small children to
run in the street,or (dreadful picture) leave
them for their loving father's to wash,
dress, nurse and care for; or expect Papa to
smoothe their own bed, or soothe  her
business head-aching brow? Tender atten-
tions which, of course, she never needs in
the daily drudgery of domestic life.
	They say "if woman is to improve society
she must do so at  her own fire-side, by
instructing the children." This she has
been trying to do ever since the foundation
of the world; and yet her sons will go, from
her side, out into the world and partake
more or less of the evils of public life.
They will drink, gamble, swear,electioneer,
and sometimes shed innocent blood over
the man they wish to put into office.
	But woman must look quietly on nor can
she wish to interfere without being consid-
ered out of hor sphere. If a man has one
jot of gentlemanly dignity in his composi-
tion, the presence of ladies will do more
towards restraining these evils than even
law itself. All women have not the con-
stant  care of children; and many could, I
believe, fill some public offices with honor
to themselves and benefit to the community
wherein they reside.
	Most men hate a  strong-minded, or wo-
man's rights woman. If the world does not 
need strong-minded women,I don't believe
it does strong-minded men. If we were
the senseless dolls some men seem to think
us, how could we bring into existence and
rear our intelligent sons?
	Man need not fear that woman will ever
try to usurp his place in public life.
	The man  who is affectionate, and kind
will ever command the respectful love and
admiration of the weaker and more depen-
dent sex; and the woman who has such  a
husband will look to him, not with the
cringing fear of a love for a tyrannical
master, but with the proud confiding love
of her nature.
	Woman will never be satisfied until she
is acknowledged as the equal and counselor
of man.
	DORCAS.


THIS year Woman's  Suffrage  is making
considerable  progress  in  the  States.  In
Iowa a majority vote decided  to  submit  to
the de[-]ision  of  the people  an  amendment
to the Constitution, entitling men and wo-
men citizens to  equal  suffrage, irrespective
of sex.  In  New  York,  Massachusetts ,and
four other States  the  women  are  allowed
school suffrage, and to hold such offices
as pertain to educational matters.  In  Rhode
Island and Connecticut  the Governors have
recommended the same.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Emmeline B. Wells. 	Editor.

	Published semi-montly, In Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms:  One copy one year, $2.00 one copy six months,
1.00  Ten  copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonparell spac, one 
time, $2.00; per moth, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
 Exponent Office, Lower  West  Room of the Council
House,  South  Temple  Street.  Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 15, 1880.


WHAT IS HAPPINESS?

	The pursuit of true happiness seems to be the 
most universal occupation of mankind, under-
lying every other.  In all countries, among all
classes, whether rich or poor, high  or low,
young or old, the same object  is  sought  to be
obtained, but by various  methods, namely  to
be happy.  Great blunders are made  and  im-
portant items overlooked in  striving to secure
the offective elements to produce the happiness
that will in some degree satisfy the human heart.
Men and women reach out and grasp  with
avidity  some  glittering  bauble  believing  its
possession  will bring the  partial happiness,
which is all they dare hope for, and disappoint-
ment points the sting and they turn again and 
wonder why they are not happy, and how others
succeeded where they signally failed.
 In their earnestness to find the true method of  
being happy they take no note of failures, but
still go on,  searching  for  the  true alchemy
which is to turn all it touches into gold, or tinge
with, "coleur de rose" all the common place
surroundings of life. 
	There is no royal road to fame is an old adage
which will apply with equal force to happiness,
so each one marks out his own individual path,
or follows in the beaten  track  where  some
whom fortune  seemed to  smile  upon  have
perchance  succeeded in winning a few fair
flowers or gems  of  value,  seemingly true re-
quisites of happiness.  But the capacity for en-
joyment differs  so  much  in different individ-
uals, and at the several periods of life,that there
can be no specific rules laid down; and the differ
ent organizations  and temperaments as  well
as the peculiarity, thoroughness and extent of
one's education creates distinctions that en[-]irely
overthrow any general  theory  for happiness.
Therefore no one person can really define  an-
other's happiness, or mark out  any particular
designation to pursue; but much  very  much,
depends  necessarily  upon  circumstances  and
disposition.
 The greatest of all hindrances to happiness
it seems to us lies in the fact  that one  cannot
enjoy isolated happiness.  It must be shared
and is consequently dependent  upon others.
Relatiaes and  friends  even  neighbors
are more or less involved; therefore  we are all
interdependent, our  happiness is so closely in-
terwoven  with that of others  that  unless  we
are clearly selfish, we cannot declare ourselves
wholly happy in the abstract. One's friends, com-
panions, and immediate family are all to be con-
sidered and self, is only on of the simple factors
in the sum total, which multiplied by all these
different needs and sources of happiness or un-
happiness,  keeps  on increasing  the swelling
numbers  of  elements  for happienss or  the
reverse,
 Reconsidering the subject we come to the 
conclusion  that  earthly  happiness is  only
momentary like gleams or flashes of sunlight,
and some people living in dark places, shut out
perhaps unconsciously the radiance of the sun-
shine,  which is a great purifier  and  invigorat-
or, and should penetrate  the  most remote re-
cesses of one's habitation.  So also is it wise to
economize such  rays  of happiness  as come
within one's grasp and though  they  are not 
exactly tangible yet  the  spiritual  sense can
comprehend the method of radiation and thus
cast a halo of happiness  that  will intensely
beautify the inner and even the outer life-
When darkness  enshrouds  the  mind,  Hope
the sweet angel will if  invited enter most fear-
lessly the darkest caverns of the soul  if only
one little ray  of  divine  light  shows  her  the 
footprints of her Sister  Faith,  even through a
narrow winding pathway, and pointing  with
the finger  of  inherent inspiration to  the  il-
limitable future, lift one unconsciously  above
the petty scenes and trials of to-day.
 Since mortals cannot  control  beyond  them
selves to insure happiness,  then in  what does
it consist,  or  what is understood as the fullest
happiness? The fulfillment of duty it  is often
said, but people query and hesitate in regard to 
life's highest duty.  Happiness  must  emanate
from the heart, all outward things are  but its
appendages, they cannot create it unless the 
germ is firmly  rooted within,  though they
may  minister to  it and promote  its  growth
strength and durability.
 The pursuit of happiness then  should  be the
calling into complete exercise and having under
control of a superior will, all the most exalted
faculties of the human soul.  Looking at it in
this light, the highest cultivation and exercise,
of the inner  graces, meekness, patience, long-
suffering, gentleness, kindness, goodness, faith,
cheerfulness,  temperance,  hope,  joy,  peace,
contentment, charity and love, with an un-
wavering trust in God would produce that hap-
piness which would lift one above all the ills of 
life, whatever the nature of their surroundings
might be,into an exalted atmosphere of purity
approaching that perfect state which is designa-
ted as  Paradise.


HOME AFFAIRS. 
	Sisters E.R. Snow, Z. D. Young and E S.
Taylor went by itvitation  to attend the Relief
Society Conference of Tooele Stake held
Saturday aud Sunday the 13th, and 14th, inst.

	THE Sisters Quarterly Conference of Weber
Stake will be held in the Tabernacle in Ogden
City on Thursday and Friday the 19 adn 20th,
insts.

	MRS. E. Taylor of this city attended the Joint
Conference of the Y. M. and Y. L. M. I. A., of
Davis Co. on Sunday Feb. 29, and addressed
the meeting.

	WE have recived by courtesy of Mrs. Spencer
of Washington, in pamphlet form, the Argu-
ments in behalf of the 16th, Amendment of
the ladies before the Judiciary Committee of
the House of Representitives Jan. 24, 1880.

	THE performance of the “Sorcerer” by Zion's
Musical Society in the Theatre recently is said
to have been very creditable indeed. As we
did not witness the performance on either oc-
casion we cannot criticise but think it wise and
proper to give due credit to home talent. The
young people of this Church should excel in
music which is one of the chief elements of a
higher life.


﻿The Sisters Quarterly Conference of this
Stake of Zion will convene in the 14th, Ward
Assembly Rooms on Friday and Saturday the
19 and 20th, insts. at 10 o’clock A. M. The
first day will be devoted to the Relief Society,
Saturday morning to Young Ladies Mutual
Improvement Associations and the afternoon
to the Primary Associations. The secretaries
of these various organizations will please send
reports as early as posible directed to this
office.


THE DIGNITY OF SELF-CONTROL.
	Among the many endowments and qualities
regarded as traits of character, not one is more
estimable or more to be desired than the
power to govern one’s self under all circum-
stances.
	A person may be brilliant and gifted in many
ways, yet wanting in this characteristic to any
great degree,is always in danger of being made
to appear very small and insignificant by the
loss of temper in trivial affairs. While others,
far less talented, often seem greatly superior to
such a one, through simply possessing the
power of self-control.
	Happily, this virtue, like all others, if not
altogether natural to an individual, may be ac-
quired by careful cultivation. And the earlier
it is implanted in the heart of youth, the easier
will be the process of culture, and the more
satisfactory the results which follow.
	This is a subject upon which the parents of
young children cannot bestow too much atten-
tion and care. Every true parent has a desire
to see its offspring grow and develop into
something truly good, noble and beautiful.
Among the Latter-day Saints, whether else-
where in the world or not, this desire is, I be-
lieve, paramount to all others.
	But let us remember here, that in general
instances,though there may be rare and strange
exceptions, ‘,Like produces like." Why then


THE DIGNITY OF SELF-CONTROL.

	Among the many endowments and qualities
regarded as traits of character, not one is more
estimable or more to be desired than the
power to govern one’s self under all circum-
stances.
	A person may be brilliant and gifted in many
ways, yet wanting in this characteristic to any
great degree,is always in danger of being made
to appear very small and insignificant by the
loss of temper in trivial affairs. While others,
far less talented, often seem greatly superior to
such a one, through simply possesing the
power of self-control.
	Happily, this virtue, like all others, if not
altogether natural to an individual, may be ac-
quired by careful cultivation. And the earlier
it is implanted in the heart of youth, the easier
will be the process of culture, and the more
satisfactory the results which follow.
	This is a subject upon which the parent's of
young children cannot bestow too much atten-
tion and care. Every true parent has a desire
to see its offspring grow and develop into
something truly good, noble and beautiful.
Among the Latter-day Saints, whether else-
where in the world or not, this desire is, I be-
lieve, paramount to all others.
	But let us remember here, that in general
instances, though there may be rare and strange
exceptions, ‘,Like produces like." Why then


should we desire or expect of our children
greater or better work than we can bring our-
selves to be capable of? Let us also bear in
mind that "All wiss government begins with
self-government," and never, never be guilty
of correcting a child in  anger.
	If we only begin and continue in the right
way ourselves, we may as easily make true
gentlemen and ladies, or true men and women,
of our sons and daughters, as by taking the
opposite course we help them to become  bores
and clogs in society, at home, or wherever
they happen to find themselves.
	A very young child may be taught self-res-
pect and self-command so far that in cheerfully
complying with the wishes  of  others.  it  will
manifest a love and sense of duty to a suprising
extent.  But this ple[-]si[-]g result can never be
obtained by driving with whips or threats un-
til through fear of punishment it will sullenly
yield obedience.  Neither will a few co[-]xing
words followed by a sha[-]p rebuke have any
tendency to lead a child into the straight path
of honor—honor for its parants, itself and for
all correct principals.
	The man who suffers himsell to be thrown
into passion, and allows his tongue to u[-]t[-]r
unreasonable and unseasonable words, gains
no respect, but deserved  contempt from  his
fellow-men.  And the parent  who  manifests
like weakneeses in the presence  of its child, is
only planting in the youthful  mind  seeds of
distrust, which are likely to ripen into disrespect
and disobedience.
	Firmness and gentleness, patience in teach-
ing and conistency in all requirements are
qualities necessary to be  exercised in directing
the youthful mind. And the proper exercise
of these faculties can only be sustained by strict
self-discipline,
	If we would be honored by our children, re-
spected by our neighbors and blest of our heav-
enly Father, though humble and child-like,
though wearing no other dignity, we  must
possess the dignity of self-control.
								LULA.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ARE WE TO HAVE A HOSPITAL.

	DEAR EXPONENT: Some three years ago, the 
necessity for a Public Hospital was discused
quite freely. About every one who gave even
a passing thought to the subject,acknowledged
that such an institution was much needed, and 
regretted that some one did not make a move
to have it established.
	Well, so far as I know, nothing but talk has
come of it yet. But accidents happen and
people get sick all the same. We seem as far
as ever from the de[-]ired object, the possession
of a good Public Hospital, built and supported
by the Territory, free to all who might be un-
fortunate enough to need help without the
means of paying for it Surely this  Territory
is rich enough to support one such institntion
and it really is a necessity, and demands ear-
nest thought and action.
	The benevolence of such an institution would
bring its own reward. The thorough training
of nurses and the preparing of surgeons and
doctors to skillfully deal with all cases that
might be submitted to their care, is an item
which alone is well worthy of the earnest at-
tention of the most intelligent among our
people. Skilled nurses are much needed every-
where, they are of priceless worth, and there
is no fear that there will ever be too many of 
them. But few mortals, comparatively speak-
ing,have the ability to become first class nurses.
	But shall we not have a free hospital, with
wise and just overseers, where some of those


who might be educated for good nurses can
have the privilege?
	We have no place where accidents can be
skillfully treated free of cost; and accidents
seem mostly to happen to the poor. But the
rich as well as the poor get sick, and need good
nurses, and very often great suffering and per-
haps death is the result of not being able to
secure the proper help, which a trusty nurse
might have given.
	It is a great pity that it seems to be no one's
place to make any move in this direction.
Doubtless our long talked of and much needed
Public Hospital would now be in running or-
der if there were "MONEY IN IT!" Alas! for the 
selfishness of human beings! Strange selfishness
indeed if out of all the taxes paid by the
inhabitatants of our Territory it cannot afford
to es[t]ablish one free institution for the benefit
of unfortunate sufferers.
	We are supposed to be—or we suppose our-
selves to be a benevolent people. Yet this most
beneficient object, the founding of a free Public
Hospital gets no farther than empty talk, while
humanity pleads piteously for the establish-
ment of just such an institution.
	If this subject must be longer "talked," I say,
let the women of Utah "talk it up" in real ear-
nest, and u[-]ge the the men to action upon it.
	The hospitals of England are her just pride,
they are founded on the most liberal plans and 
do an amount of good that cannot be over esti-
mate.
	Oh dear! when we are well, how little we
think of the sufferings of our fellow creatures!
Do let us have a free hospital somehow, before
long!
							MARY.
Grantsville.


WOMAN'S VOICE.
	Wonderful are the ways of God, and none
can find them out but the humble in spirit; and 
the pure in heart. The eye that is single to
the glory of God, can behold his work upon
the earth,that he has given us to do, we have
no time to throw away but like the busy bee
that gathers honey in the hive so we should
gather in all the love and power of the Gospel,
and help to establish Zion. Work for the 
kingdom of God that we may enjoy a fulness
of glory in the world to come. We have left
our comfortable homes and gathered togeth-
er as one great family of children to be taught
more perfectly the ways of life and salvation.
I feel thakful that I live in this day that the 
Gospel of Jesus has been restored to the earth,
and the sound has gone forth "Repent ye  for
the kingdom of heaven is at hand." I gave
heed to the sound thereof and sought to know
from whence it came, the truth of this great
work that has been commenced in this our day,
I still have that testimony to bear, and my
faith grows stronger as I grow in the knowledge
of God and his works. I am sure that the spirit 
of the Lord is working in the hearts of the 
children, and a great power is rising up in Zion;
and the time is near at hand when the wicked
in Zion shall fear and tremble and flee when
no man pursueth.
	Let us be patient and endure to the end and 
see the salvation of God.
				HARRIET A.P. WALKER.


RESOLUTIONS.
		BEAVER CITY UTAH Feb. 23, 1880.
	Editor "Woman's Exponent: At a meeting
held under the auspices of the Relief Society
of Beaver City, at which were representative


from each town in the county, the following
resolutions were framed and unanimously ad-
opted: 
	Whereas: The Honorable Charles W. Penrose
has, in presenting, to the Legislative Body, the
bill, "To Remove the Political Disabilities of 
Woman," in his speech before the House, and 
in many ways, and also the Honorable John
R. Murdock has by presenting petitions etc.,
shown themselves to be the friends of Woman
and interested in the cause of Woman's ad-
vancement, therefore.
	Resolved: That we, the Ladies of Beaver
County, tender to those gentlemen aud to all
others who have favored the cause, our  mo[-]t
sincere thanks and this expression of respect.
	Resolved:  That a copy of these resolutions,
be sent to the Honorable J. R. Murdock, the 
Honorable C. W. Penro[-]e, and to the "Deseret
News" and WOMAN'S EXPONENT, for publica-
tion. 
		Delila F. Cox,
		Elizabeth Farnsworth,
		Nancy Blackburn, 		Committee. 
		Mary Lightner, 
		Mary E. Ashworth. 
				MARY E. ASHWORTH, Sec'y.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED: at North Ogden; Hot Spring District,
Feb. 14th, of Erysipelas, Julia A. beloved Wife
of Edward W. Wade,and daughter of Edmund,
and Sarah Ellis. Born at Melksham, Wilt-
shire, England, April 16[-]h 1857. Aged 22, years
9 months, and 28 days. 
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT TO THE MEMORY OF 
SISTER JULIA A. WADE.
	Whereas, Death has come into our midst and 
taken from us our Honored Sec'y Sister Julia
A. Wade one whom we all loved and re-
spected, as an obedient daughter, an affection-
ate sister a loving wife and mother, a faithful
Latter-day Saint, and an earnest supporter of 
the Relief Society. 
	Therefore, Be it resolved by the members of
this Society, that we tender to the bereave[-]
husband  and family our sincere sympathy
and condolence, and earnestly desire that God
will  comfort them in their affliction and
strengthen them to bear up under the loss 
they have sustained.
	Resolved: that a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the bereaved family. A copy put upon
the records of this society. And a copy sent to
the Woman's EXPONENT with a  request
for publication.
		MARY J. MAYCOCK,
		ELIZA P. RHEES,
		ELVIRA HICKENLOOPER. 
[Bracket to the right of the 3 listed names] Committe
In behalf of the Society.

	DIED: in Cedar City Iron County Jan. 27th,
1880. of Cancer, Mary Florence, daughter of
Henry, and Eliza McConnell; She was born in
Lehi City November 20[-]h, 1860, being 19 years
2 months, and 7 days old.
Deceased was a young lady of great promise,
lively and cheerful disposition, much beloved
by her youthful companions. Was treasurer
in the Y. L. M. I. A. and we realize that we
have lost a useful member, but our loss is her 
gain.
	During her sickness, she was very patient and 
died full of faith, and in the hope of a glorious,
resurrection. 	
		E.E.L. JONES, Sec'y.
			Y. L. M. I. A.
	Cedar City Utah Feb. 23, 1880. 

	DIED: in Ogden City Tuesday Feb. 10, 1880,
of diphtheria and scarlet fever Willard aged


two years and one month, the son of Joseph A.
and Josephine Richards West.  Willard was a 
bright, promising and  interesting  child in all
respects; and was the darling of the household.
A blow such as this seems for a time to crush
the light out of the hearts of those who have
entwined their affections so fondly round the 
cherished one, and the home is darkened and
sorrow keeps a constant vigil.  But the bruised
spirit gradually recovers, and the precious light
of the holy Gospel brings a heavenly peace and 
an invigorating  power  healing  the wounds
which death inflicts: and  the  loved  ones
departed are associated in the mind as a part of 
the beautiful past, and linked with that eternal
home in the future, which is sacred and dear to 
every Latter-day Saint.
 Your darling lives and will be  waiting to
welcome his parents and  beloved ones at the
gates of the holy city, on  that eternal  shore
where there is no more pain, nor grief, nor
parting forever.
		Within the eternal home he lives again,
		Freed from the tolls of earth its grief and pain,
		He roams Elysian fields on that fair shore
		Where pain and sorrow never enter more.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CONVERSATION.
		BY HANNAH T. KING.
			(continued)
 I gather up the dropped threads of my last
writing, feeling I have a little more  to say
on the  subject.  I  do  not  mean to assert
that conversation should be  studied as  an
art.  It is not the most learned, either, that
excel in this most desirable  gift - for gift it
is - though like all others it requires culti-
vation.  It is tact, not talent, and a healthy,
bright and intelligent  mind,  that bestows
the material  out of which the agreeable
speaker is made. It is very desirable, be-
cause it is a medium of doing much good,
and conferring actual happiness.  It should
not be  reserved  entirely  for  company, or 
casual visitors, but should be the attendant
in the family circle, and around the home
fireside, as a means of drawing all together
and calling out the mind of each member
of that most delightful circle of parents,
brothers, sisters, friends!  By such an in-
terchange of thought, the vexations and 
petty cares of daily life may be dispersed,
and peace and cheerfulness take their place.
	It is an imperative  duty  to  make the
home evenings so  agreeable  that every
member feels drawn imperceptibly, as into 
a magnetic  circle, to spend his evenings
at home.  Husbands and sons should be
able to find those evenings at home the 
most agreeable place to them; many a hus-
band has relinquished  his "club," or some
other resort that he has been accustomed to
attend, when he has discovered that "there
is no place like home" - made so agreeable
[-]y the bright, kind spirits that assemble
there, waiting to make  a  delightful  even-
ing after the turmoil of the day; that in
the evening at least there shall be "white
moments" in which to bask, as in the sun-
shine of the soul.  The boys of the family
I would especially recommend to the con-
sideration  of  the  same  circle;  gather them
into that circle with love and gentleness,
and let some of the conversation be made
particularly agreeable to them- some nauti-
cal historical  fact, or some  grand military
exploit, where all were more or less heroes,
or some grand deed that exalted human
nature and made life glorious.  Tell them
of the living  characters who, as boys like
them, have entered life  many  of  them
without home or friends, but bravely they
fought their way stood  to  the "wheel" to
which, like many a "steersman," they have
had to be "lashed" to preserve them from
being  washed  overboard;  and  then show
the reward - how they conquered and be-
came  the magnates of the age they lived
in; and not only for an age, "but for all
time."  You will see the boys' eyes sparkle,
all the nobility in them will be roused; in
idea they are helping those men to fight
their battles.  They drink into the spirit of 
labor and heroism, and they carry this with
them as a seed sown in the mind, till it be-
comes  a  tree, under  whose  branches they
will in time take shelter, and find refuge
from the storms of life, like the heroes they
have contemplated and desired  to imitate.
	Girls also should certainly  not be forgot-
ten;  they also must have their grand living
prototypes set before them--women who
have made their mark in the world, "not
for an age, but for all time."  Here is an
ample  field for conversation.  Cheerfulness
and playfulness should  ever preside over
these home conversations; delightful teach-
ers  are  always  playful and attractive,
whether in the parlor  or  the  schoolroom.
Religion, morals and manners, when always
presented in gloomy robes and long faces,
repel and drive away the gay and buoyant
spirit of youth.  Wisdom is made fascinat-
ing when she  enunciates  her  words  in  a
sweet and pleasant voice and a manner that
shall win and attach her hearers.  How lov-
ingly we recall the voice and the words
gone that had this genial influence over
us!  and the longer we live and the more ex-
perience we have, the more we see and un-
derstand  the goodness of words and teach-
ings conveyed to us by such a medium. It
is not by long conversations that instruction
is necessarily  conveyed; a sentence aptly
spoken may convey a life-long lesson, if
spoken in  season and in the spirit of love
and kindness.
	In visiting the sick, it is a fine art to be
able to speak to them in a way and manner
that shall cheer and invigorate the dormant
faculties;  cheerfulness, and even playful-
ness, as the case may be, should ever be the 
tone of conversation in the sick room.
Some people seem  born  to visit  the sick; 
their very voice and manner as they enter
bring with them life, health and refresh-
ment.  They also have a serenity and even
a playfulness, that throws sunshine over
the shade, till the languid eyes will bright-
en, the closed lips  smile, the hand will
grasp as though it said "stay with me;" and 
as the visitor departs, the last words, with 
the lingering look, are "come again soon!"
We should never  carry gloomy news into
the sick room; our talk should be cheerful,
soothing, and playful even, that after we
have retired,  the  patient  will  recall  our
words and perhaps have a quiet laugh over
the thought of it; and all this is a help to
restoration.  I have in my mind's eye at
this moment a dear nurse who was indeed
a ministering spirit in the sick room: so 
calm, so gentle, moving about so noiselessly
in the soft slippers she had procured for the 
occasion, like a spirit of peace, and while
she quietly  arranged and  put the room in
order, her very movements were an enter-
tainment and amusement that soothed and
comforted the  watching and observant pa-
tient;  and while  attending  personally to 
her needs, would tell some little lively tale
that required no stretch  of the weak and 
enfeebled  brain  to  comprehend, but just
gave a change of ideas and broke the mo-
notony of the sick room, and for the time
being ministered to the  dormant  faculties
of  the  invalid.  Trifles do indeed make
the sum of human things.  Speech is a
mighty, God-like gift.  Oh! let us watch
our words more and more, that when we
do speak our words shall be remembered for
good and for edification, and  especially in
our every day life and in the circle of home.


"NOT DEAD, BUT SLEEPTH"

	Thanks, brave Ben Lomond, for that most
felicitous quotation, as well as for other
good things said in our behalf.
	We give notice of appeal against the
present decision of our Legislature, and
warn their Honorable Body that our Bill is
likely to need more killing at their hands
than "Ben Tasker" at the hands of "Ben
Lomond." We do not intend to remain
defeated. 
	I admit that the great question of equal
rights is a very serious one, but the deep-
est tragedy on the boards has sly dashes of
fun tucked away in corners, and I think
since we are sure to win the race at last, we
can afford to indulge in a few quiet smiles
over some of those "powerful weak" argu-
ments of our opponents, who really seem
rather scared. "Vidi" compares official
position to "a fine field" with "a good
fence" around it to keep out "cows, etc.,"
which might "destroy the products of the 
field."
	By "cows" he obviously refers to women;
ugh! and by "etc." I conclude he refers to
aliens, lunatics, felons and Indians not 
taxed. And now, what I'd like to fathom
is in what sense he holds the political are-
na to be a fine [-]eld. Does he mean that it 
is now so well tilled and in such perfect
thrift and order that any further attempts
in that direction would only injure it? If
so, then I must say that to a spectator it
don't look so, while officers from the Presi-
dent down to the postmaster and the mag-
istrate are accused of holdihg  their posi-
tions at the will of rings and wirepullers,
rather than at the will of the people; while
monopolies drain the lifeblood from the
bone and muscle of the nation; while dram-
shops and brothels spread death and de-
struction under protection of law; and while
want, weakness and even sex are treated
like crimes, and a different code of morals
laid down for men and women.
	But perhaps the gentleman, when speak-
ing of "products," merely refers to the
salaries, emolument and perquisites of of-
fice holding, and dreads lest women  might
want the salary as well as the office. This
is something tangible, something deserving
of careful consideration as a grave danger,
and is altogther worthy the feudal ages, the
Salic law, "Vidi" and Vici.
	Now, having climbed these two horns of
my dilemma, I find  there  is still  another
like  this:  Perhaps "Vidi" sees in some
well salaried public position "a fine field"
for the display of his talents; and you must
admit, dear reader, that this is a brilliant
idea. The parable of the fine field is "pow-
erful weak," but here is somethihg strong.
Speaking of woman's sphere being "within
the sacred precincts of home," he says:
"There she reigns supreme, and she ought
to." This exceedingly radical statement
must be divided into two heads, for greater
ease of decapitation:
	First—"There she reigns supreme." If
this were true, so that men and not women
were thus conquered  singly, I submit that
the aggregate of power would be in our
hands and we certainly could not petition
our subjects (and get refused) for terms of
equality. Moreover, since it really is
equality and not supremacy which we de-


[Column 1]

sire, no just and reasonable woman wishes
to reign supreme at home or elsewhere.
She wants an equal voice in family affairs,
and an equal ownership in children and 
purse. So far from this being the case, the 
man by law has always been the sole dicta-
tor and proprietor, not only of policy, chil-
dren and property, but of the woman her-
self included. Wonderful supremacy this!
so off goes the first head.
	Second—"And she ought to." Now, I 
protest thnt here is more granted—nay,
thrust upon us—than the strongest minded
woman, or the one of most "nerve," ever
dreamed of asking. Now, if we dared ac-
cept this oracle of "Vidi," what would be-
come of St. Paul's time-honored advice,
"Wives submit," &c., or what of those fear-
ful things lately quoted to us concerning
"women rule over them, and children are
their oppressors?" These things are brought
up by those who tear to allow any woman
to hold an office, lest she should thus sin
against conscience and Scripture by ruling
over people. Now, from a distance this
looks like a large-sized bubaboo, but calm
your fears, "mes enfants," and see how 
frail it is. No doubt you have all heard
delegates elect make their farewell address
to their constituents, and not one of them
ever failed to assure the sovereign people
that "I go, not your ruler, but your servant,
subject to your orders and bound to obey
your instructions." So you see that accord-
ing to men's own definition of such a posi-
tion, those who believe in woman's subser-
viency ought to be anxious to send her to
the Legislature. But off with this second
head, for in the ideal Society we will all
serve each other; and we deny that a wo-
man—or a man—ought to reign supreme at
home, or anywhere else. Let us all be free
and equal.
	And if those women who clamor for office
are the very ones we would not like to put 
there, it is equally true when applied to
men. Those who most faithfully and hon-
estly perform their private duties are they
who will be most likely to do public work
in tne same way. The office-hunter is a
drone.
	Now, let me assure the timid that there
is not the least occasion for all this alarm
lest women wish to do men's work and 
leave, their own undone. This is what they
want—liberty to do everything they please
in order that their natural occupations may
come to be esteemed at their actual worth;
and then woman may choose a peculiarly
feminine occupation without being obliged
to submit to the injury of working for noth-
ing, and the insult of being told at the same
time that she is supported, and that she is
rather ornamental than useful. This work-
ing twenty-four hours a day for board and
clothes is growing too monotonous, and we
feel like it is time to adjudge the rate of
wages according to the actual service per-
formed, instead of according to the sex of
the servant.
	Do you see, gentlemen? We don't want
your blacksmithing and borsebreaking,your
felon catching and fighting; we are free to
admit that these things are beyond our
powers. But we do want you to admit that
housekeeping and citizen rearing are beyond
your powers, and that between these two
extremes is ample scope for the exercise of
all the talents of both men and women so
that none need remain hidden in a napkin.
But to return to "Vidi." He says "one
woman who is content to train her children
for future usefulness, and instil into their
souls principles of virtue, purity, honor and
integrity, is worth more to the world at
large than a whole regiment of female

[Column 2]

office-holders, voters, polticians, or any-
thing else."
	Mr. Speaker: "I move to amend the gen-
tleman's resolution by striking out the word
"female," so that it may read "is worth
more to the world at large than a whole
regiment of officeholders, voters, politicians,
or anything else." Carried.
	We want to do our own peculiar work,
because we know its worth; but we are
tired of spoiling it by being obliged to sub-
contract and follow orders of those who
cannot know, and often do not care, how it
ought to be done, so that they can claim the
pay. We want the original contract, so
that we can be at liberty to pursue the best
methods, and we guarantee better work.
		L. L. D.
	St. George, Feb. 20, 1880.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S RIGHTS AND MISSION.

	Woman's rights and mission have been
the THEME for many years.  Various have
been  the  opinions  of  the  sexes;  and  to a
great extent the advocates on both sides are
all extremists.  There has been a continual
warfare  as  to  what position women should
hol[-] on  this  planet  of  darkness;  even on
her social  rights,  the  relation she holds  to
her husband, her children, and to the world
at large.
 Some give their  opinions that woman's
position  is  equal  to  that of man in every
sense  of  the word;  others, that she is only
a  beautiful  piece  of  machinery,  made  to
order.  Turned  by  the  wheels  of nature,
her movements  are  mechanical; she eats,
drinks, sleeps, and  performs her daily rou-
tine of labor (that labor which  has been  set
apart for her by the lords of creation), hav-
ing, seemingly, no object  in view but  that
which supplies their physical wants, and  no 
duty to perform except that which grows
out of the animal instincts and no special
destiny to fulfill.
	The ideas  of  the  mass  in  regard to wo-
man's rights and mission, and also her mo-
tives, are erroneous.  The woman who takes
a stand  for  her rights is pictured by  some
as a tall, gaunt being, clad  in  nondescript
garments, with book under her arm, taking
rapid  strides  through streets and lanes, on
her way to some public  office, or lecture-
room, turning neither to the right nor left,
for fear she should meet that  monster, man.
Possibly some may answer this description,
but they are the few.
 Women generally are true to their natures,
but their motives  are  seldom  understood.
Pass by the appearance, and look at the 
hearts, the acts, of  these noble women, and 
you  will  see  their  motives  are pure, and
they work  for  the  exaltation, and not the
degradation, of  their  species.  Their aims
are  high,  their lives are useful, effective
and virtuous.  In them we see life, energy
and purpose, and we are forced to admire a
fully developed soul, even if  that soul be a
woman. The deeds of these noble women
will float around them, like the glory of the 
departing  day, or  the  gentle  breeze of an
evening's summer wind.
 Again, the  old  maid  is  laughed  at, and 
jeered at, because she is considered to have
no rights, or mission; she is  treated with
contempt  by those who are styled woman's
natural protectors.
 Woman was given  to man, by the Maker
of the universe, to be a helpmeet and bless-
ing,  that he, with her, might attain to that
exaltation which  rightly  belongs to  those
who faithfully  fulfill  the  object  of  their 
creation.
 Man, when true  to  his  nature, is noble
and  brave; the  woman, gentle  and pure;
and both  combined form  a  perfect whole.
Women naturally seem  to  more  fully un-
derstand the  object  of  their creation than
men; no matter what any one may say to
the contrary, there are but few women who
would not  gladly fulfill their mission, and 
have their womanly rights, if the opportu-
nity were given them;  but  man-made sys-
tems have changed the whole tenor of their 
lives, and many naturally pure and virtuous
beings  accept  degraded  positions,  forced
upon them  through circumstances by those
who claim to be their natural protectors and
guides.
 The berated  Mormon (I will not say de-
spised, for he is only envied) is able to com-
prehend and and accord to women, in a larger
and truer sense, their  rights, and open the
way for them  to  fulfill their mission upon
the earth,  which is the position of an intel-
ligent, capable, helpful wife and mother.
 Woman from the cradle is instinctively a
mother;  with  the  girl  the  dolls  take  the
place of  the  babe, and she dresses, pets, or
scolds it just as earnestly as the real mother.
The intelligent  woman  makes her home
pleasant and happy, if she is permitted the
precious  boon  of  a true home, to  her hus-
band,  children  and  friends.  She spends
the greater  portion  of her time wisely, in
home duties, administering  to the wants of 
her family, singing the sweet lullaby, teach-
ing her children the ways of life and salva-
tion;  giving a cheering word  of  counsel or
a helping  hand  to her  neighbors;  her lei-
sure moments are spent in instructive read-
ing, in  writing  some pleasing  article (if a
Mormon, for the WOMAN'S EXPONENT), and
in doing anything  that tends to the im-
provement  of the  mind and the  exaltation
of the soul.
 Come with  me, and I will show  you a
woman that fully understands  and  appre-
ciates her rights  and  mission.  It is but a
few steps.  See  that  pretty cottage  partly
concealed  with  roses,  honeysuckle  and
sweetbriar; note  the  nice  graveled  walk
leading  to  the  house, the tastily arranged
beds  of  flowers, the very air  is filled with
the perfume of the sweet-scented  beauties
of nature;  list  to  the  merry  choristers, as
they flit from  tree  to  tree;  how  homelike
and beautiful everything appears.
 It is evening, and  this room seems to be
the pleasant room  of  the  house;  let  us take
a  peep at its contents.  In front of the win-
dow stands a small  table;  on  it  are  books,
pens, ink and paper.  What have we here
a blue stocking?  Oh, no;  only  a  woman
who  understands  her  rights and mission.
See!  she has been writing;  let us read what
she says:  "In reading the papers, I am as-
tonished at  the  pros  and  cons  of  the  free
and  liberal  citizens  of  Utah.  Can  it be
possible that  a  Latter day Saint  of  either
sex objects to the rights  of  women, as de-
fined in the recent petition to the Legisla-
tive  Assembly  of  the  Territory  of  Utah?
Are there sisters in Utah who are so igno-
rant, and so  far  behind  the  spirit  of the
times, as not to appreciate  or understand 
their rights  as free women?  Do they not
want the  privilege  of  the  franchise,  or
more, the right  and might to  choose those
who are capable to hold office of  either sex?
Do some of our brethren  think we  intend
to monopolize  this  little  world, and leave
them out  in the cold?  "Be  of  good cheer,
O ye  of  little  faith," such is not  our  in-
tent."  Here the subject is hastily left.
 Let us  continue  our  investigation. In
the centre of  the room stands a table, spread
with snowy cloth and shining  dishes; not
costly viands  meet  the  eye,  but  simple,
healthy  food.  Nice  white bread, sweet,


home-made butter, honey, culled from the
sweets of flowers, pure, sparkling water,
and milk for the babes. The arm-chair is
drawn to the cheerful fire, with a cosy look
of invitation for some loved one; note the 
expectant look of that neatly dressed moth-
er, the prattle of the little oues asking when
father will come. What a spirit of peace
and purity pervades the whole!
	Hark! a heavy tread is heard on the 
graveled walk, a hand is laid on the door,
it opens, and the little ones are caught to
father's breast. See th[-] tear in the moth-
er's eye, the happy smile on her face, and 
tell me if this is not a true picture of a wo-
man who has the rights most congenial, and 
who fully understands her mission.
		M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.
	Kanab, Feb. 24, 1880.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WOMAN.

	Siuce the abilities of woman have been
agttated  it has caused many reflections to
arise in my mind, and more especially since
I heard this question given for debate. "Is
it right for woman to vote?" I was struck
with astonishment. This privilege has been
granted us Latter day Saint women for fifty
years, or at least ever since the rise of the
Church, and for ten years we have had po-
litical suffrage. And now the question
arises, is it right? I conclude it came from
the unthinking part of society—those who
have never weighed the subject. The Scrip-
ture says, "the man is not without the wo-
man, or the woman without the man in the
Lord." And if created in the image of
God, how could she be companionable with-
out intelligence? Accordingly she must
possess this quality; or did our Father be-
queath this gift to His sons only? If so,
what kind of posterity will they raise? I
object to this idea, realizing that we are be-
loved by our Father equally to themselves;
unless they keep His commands better.
	Much might be said upon this subject,
but to illustrate the subject briefly, we will
refer to Josephine, the wife of Napoleon
Bonaparte. What did her intellect do for
him? Her motives were righteous, and
she was womanly in all her efforts to estab-
lish him in the hearts of his contrymen, by
pointing out worthy objects of charity in
their realm, which would have passed un-
noticed but for her. Bonaparte, through
her influence, established and endowed a
school for the education of those children
whose fathers lost their lives in his service.
Josephine herself purchased a mansion in
Malmaison, and had it elegantly fitted up
for Bonaparte on his return from Switzer-
land. Her constant anxiety for his happi-
ness may continually be seen, but I forbear.
Finally he decided that he must have an
heir to the throne; a divorce must be given.
After listening to the request, Josephine
remarked: "Napoleon, my Star is of a high
order as well as your own; when it is re-
moved your's will fade." We will briefly
state that he lived to realize this, and be-
came an exile on the island of St. Helena.
Yet her true womanly nature continued to
feel for his interest, and she would gladly
have shared his trials even in exile, and
wrote a letter to that effect. But if I mis-
take not, a rapid disease released her spirit
from earth, before an answer came. We
learn  from history that France was saved
by a woman at two different periods in its
history. The Maid of Orleans, Joan D'Arc,
when only seventeen years old had wisdom
given her to conquer the English troops,
and place the king upon his throne, after
he had been a refugee for three months.

[Column 2]

At different times she would express her
sentiments to people who could see the
cause as she did. But who would carry out
the plan? No one seemed willing to un-
dertake the task. When asked by the king
who would take lead in the engagement
and give orders, the reply came that she
would. He accordingly fitted her out, and
the result is recorded on history's pages.
We read that her parents were devotional
people, and taught her to reverence her
Maker; and when only a child, as she re-
tired for prayer she would frequently hear
delightful music in the air, and listen with
rapture and delight to the same. She
seemed filled with inspiration and love for
her country, with a strong desire to save it,
This she accomplished, by the help of Provi-
dence and the intelligence He gives to those
who have a pure love and intensity in a
worthy pursuit.
	Shall we forget the daughter of a Senator
of France, who would go to listen to the
speeches of the Senate? At this time Murat
was resolved upon revolutionizing France,
and had already beheaded some of her no-
bles. The soul of Charlotte Corday, a name
well known to fame, was fired at the bloody
deeds of that man. She several times
asked her father "is there no one who can
kill that man?" There seemed to be none.
She finally resolved to take the work in her
her own hands. She went to his house,
found him sick. Upon asking what should
be done with some individuals she named,
she received the reply, "They  shall die."
She then stabbed him. She remained mo-
tionless upon the spot, and when told she
should die, replied, "I expect that" She
was taken to the tower, and while on her
way there the cry came, "Take her to the
tower! take her to the tower!" She calmly
bowed her head, saying: "I am going
thither." She had previously written to
her father,asking his forgiveness for taking
this step without his consent. But this put
an end to the rebellion.
	I admit these were extreme cases. Yet
I am sure if WOMAN will give her attention
to worthy pursuits,and desire light from the
fountain, even from our Heavenly Father,
she will be qualified to fill noble positions
upon the earth, and be a blessing to society,
as well as her brother man. Let this be
our aim, and our Father in heaven will ac-
complish all that is necessary for us. This
is the faith of your sister in the Gospel,
		M. E. KIMBALL,
	Salt Lake City, March 5, 1880.


MRS. Belva  A.  Lockwood,  the  lawyer
who  was  admitted  to  practise before the
Supreme  Court  in  Washington  has  been
elected a member of the Central Republican
Committee of the District of Columbia.
	FRIDAY, March 5, Senator Thurman, re-
ported  back  to  the  Senate, from the Judi-
ciary Committee, the petition of the Ladies
Anti-Polygamy Society,  Salt  Lake  City,
which asked for  the  expulsion  of  the Hon.
George Q. Cannon.  The Committee asked
to be discharged from the further consider-
ation of the petition,  which  was granted
them.


NEW FALL STOCK.
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER
55 East Temple Street, Salt Lake City.
[f]ive hund red pieces of Dress Goods,  Embroideries, Ruch
ngs, Five Hundred pairs KidGloves, Trimmings,  Ladies
Ties, Cud anCollars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock In the West.  Notions
Boots and Shoes, Gents’ and Boys’ Clothing and Furnishing
oo ds.  Etc., Etc.
<illegible line>

DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
		AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the countrypromptly responded to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City. <l aafnet,="" box="" 3<x!,="" sau="" lake="" city,="" s="" 7="" romania="" b.="" pratt,="‘" jph-e-siciaw="" jlnb="" surge03i,.="" dfkice-rop="" briars,="" in="" old="" constitution="" bullc'ng,="" ’="" sii'etwencomia;="" blocks="" cast="" pf="" fost="" office,="" south-="" side.of="" special="" -tuar="" nas="" been="" given="" toot="" retries,="" diseases’of="" women,="" and="" ..="" diseases="" of="" the="" dye="" fab.,="" a="" larc="" stock="" j‘blankets;1;="" fwauueis,="" 8d="" iwls,="" t.="" lwsa,!="" lyans.="" brown="" yarn,="" white="" ya-ns.="" colored'="" oosslmores,-="" tweeds,="" cotton="" batting,1="" "="" jwool.battlny,="" i="" ;'m="" brooms,="" ,="" wash="" boards;="" '="" -1="" “="">

<l aafnet,="" box="" 3<x!,="" sau="" lake="" city,="" s="" 7="" romania="" b.="" pratt,="‘" jph-e-siciaw="" jlnb="" surge03i,.="" dfkice-rop="" briars,="" in="" old="" constitution="" bullc'ng,="" ’="" sii'etwencomia;="" blocks="" cast="" pf="" fost="" office,="" south-="" side.of="" special="" -tuar="" nas="" been="" given="" toot="" retries,="" diseases’of="" women,="" and="" ..="" diseases="" of="" the="" dye="" fab.,="" a="" larc="" stock="" j‘blankets;1;="" fwauueis,="" 8d="" iwls,="" t.="" lwsa,!="" lyans.="" brown="" yarn,="" white="" ya-ns.="" colored'="" oosslmores,-="" tweeds,="" cotton="" batting,1="" "="" jwool.battlny,="" i="" ;'m="" brooms,="" ,="" wash="" boards;="" '="" -1="" “="">ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
OFFICE--Up stairs, in Old  Constitution Building,
 Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of 
street.
[-]pecial [-]tudy has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR

A LARGE STOCK
OF HOME MADE TRUNKS for sale by JOHN C. CUT
LER, Agent of the  PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building, also Home-made
Blankets,		Brown Yarn,		Cotton Batting,
Flannels, 	White Yarns,                    Cotton Batting,
F[-]annels,                   White Ya ns,                     Wool Batting,
Sh[-]wls,                     Colored Yarns,                  Brooms,
Linseys,                      Cassimeres,                       Washboards,
Jeans,                          Tweeds,                             Brushes, &c.
Palace of Fashion, No. 17  East  Temple Street.
MRS. C. E. DYE
 Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stoc[-]
of MILLINERY The latest  and  most  stylish modes [---]
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt, and Velvet. Also a m[---]
[s]election in flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet, and Ri
bons in the latest shades and stripes Country dealer
pleased all. Ladies' Ha[--] work in all its branches. Go[--]
work guaranteed. 

Z. C.  M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
	in all kinds of
DRY GOODS,  NOTIONS, GROCERIE[-]
HEAVY AND  SHELF  HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

AT TEASDEL's
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special departments  for  Gent's  Clothing
and Carpets, Ladies and Children's Shoes,
Dry Goods,  Shawls  and Domestics,
Groceries, Hardware  and Stoves
DRIED FRUITS  of all  CLASES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.
	Ladies are requested to call  and examine  the most
complete assortment  of  Curls,  Braids,  Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City. 				97 Kimball Block.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE.
IF not you should do so at nce, and examine  the New
Ideas  in  Sewing  Machine  Construction  The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and without any  noise and confu-
sion, although the rate of  speed  is  very high. Its self-
setting and self threading [---]le and absence of springs
nd c[--]s re[-]ders i[-] both  simple  and durable. Be sure to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend.
Victor  Sewing  Machine  Co.,  Chicago, Ill.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.
H. DINWOODEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers Wall Paper
		AND
[-]ABY CARRIAGES
75, 77, &79 First South St., S. L. C


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

