VOL. 8.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1879.		No. 9.


For the EXPONENT.
AT LAST.

There must be something we desire to gain,
	A recompense for pacing to and fro;
Some sweet fruition which we would obtain,
	Or greater wisdom, that we fain would knew;
And this is why we toil on, and endure—
	Do battle 'mid life's trials, storms and strife;
Because we feel that, there is something sure
	That we shall find, within a higher life.

But heavy cares and burdens on our way
	Confuse, and weary us, and we forget
Ofttimes, the blessings given day by day,
	The goal, towards which our faces we have set,
Else we should onward press, stemming the stream,
	Facing the current with an effort grand;
Nor sleep upon our oars, or careless dream,
	Lest we lost sight of Eden's promised land.

But in life's summer time so passing sweet,
	When all around seems blooming gay with flow'rs,
We're apt to shrink from duties we should meet,
	And linger—dallying in wayside bowers,
Tlil we're reminded, by the setting sun,
	Th[-]t time, for idlers, will not, cannot wait,
And we resume the task, erstwhile begun,
	Perchance to murmur at our adverse fate.

Lucky if only sweets we gathered, while
	We sought for pleasures on the broad highway;
For sometimes serpents charm us to beguile,
	And lead our footsteps very far astray.
And we must wander in a wilderness.
	In doubt and fear, not knowing what to do,
The sweets we tasted turn to bitterness,
	And thorns and briars, pierce us through and throngh.

Till some good angel takes us by the hand,
	Leading us out of sadness, darkness, night,
And we begin to see and understand,
	That we had wandered far, from truth and light.
'Twere better if we never turned aside,
	But labored diligent with constant care,
Stern duty for our motto, faith our guide,
	Patience our helpmeet—and our watchword, prayer.

Ye who are toiling in youthful prime,
	See that you sow some good, some precious seeds,
Or make some record that will be sublime,
	Engraven in the archives of geod deeds.
For these alone true rest and peace can bring,
	A bounteous yielding from the harrowed past,
That will like glory, round you ever cling,
	Diffusing happiness unto the last.

But if we would life's lessons wisely learn,
	And find that peace for which our spirits long,
The immortality for which we yearn,
	Then we must out of suffering, grow more strong.
There is a something pure for which to live,
	There are bright sunbeams that will ever gleam,
And joys supreme, that heaven alone can give,
	That will exceed our fairest, brightest dream.

September 20, 1879. [handwritten] E. B. Wells	EMILE.


[Column 1]
HOME AND HAPPINESS.

	How to make home happy is a question
worthy of deep thought, and should be in
the minds of all young ladies. There are
so many little things that add to the happi-
ness of a home and fill it with light and
beauty.
	A lady's nature may readily be judged
from the arrangement of her home. If
upon entering a home we find flowers, books,
pretty, not necessarily expensive; pictures,
beautiful and useful little articles of fancy
work, we can easily tell that there is within
this home an industrious, refined, gentle
creature, and we instinctively turn towards
such a one with feelings of affection, and
perhaps love, without ever seeing her. Her
very surroundings tell us where her
thoughts are most, and we know her mind
by studying her handiwork. "A true art-

[Column 2]
ist," one might say as she looks around and
sees the beautiful little mats, cushions, ti-
dies, wall ornaments of autumn leaves,
ferns, grasses, shells, &c.
	It is so easy, so enjoyable, to decorate
one's home in a real cheerful manner, and
it lies within the reach of every human
soul to do this. The best, the brightest or-
nament is a person possessing a peaceful,
contented mind. Where the mind is con-
tent the face is always beautiful, for an ex-
pression of happiness lights up the coun-
tenance and renders the most plain really
pretty. Who with any love for nature, or
art, could rest content with four bare white
walls always staring them in the face? It
relieves the mind, it rests the eyes to have
something pretty to look at. Nothing could
be more delightful to the young and active
than to take rambles through the canons
and meadows during these long summer
days, and gather bunches of the golden
brown and red autumnal leaves, then of an
evening, when the hard day's work is done,
we can sit and weave these carefully
pressed leaves into crosses, wreaths, clus-
ters, and many strange devices, to orna-
ment the walls. Autumn leaves are a
pleasure in every respect, and in the long
winter evenings, as we look upon the pret-
tily arranged leaves that make our sur-
roundings look so warm and cheerful, smil-
ing down upon us, the pleasure of picking
them is recalled—how with dear friends
we roamed over hill and dale and sought
these charming treasures; how we laughed
and chatted as we walked along, stopping
now and then to reach in some dangerous
place to gather a few leaves, which from
their very position seemed more beautiful
than all the rest. Oh, how often do we
value hard sought treasures, though not
nearly as beautiful, more than those found
with little seeking! Yet so it is; we value
the moonlight more than the starlight be-
cause the moon only comes at certain inter-
vals, and the stars are always there. Yet
if, like Jupiter, we had four moons shining
down upon us, we would value the stars
more, because they are farther away. Oh,
ever-changing soul, why not be content with
the near and constant, instead of seeking
that which, seemingly so beautiful and true,
may prove so very false.
	What queer looking individuals we would
be if we had plain, white faces, void of ex-
pression. As the smile and animation light
up our faces, so do the pretty ornaments
light up our homes.
	How nice it is to be able to make little
presents to our friends and companions, and
surely nothing could be more acceptable
than a piece of one's own handiwork. We
love the gift simply for the sake of the
giver, and therefore a little piece of work
is often valued more than the costliest
present, because the donor "did it herself."
When you make a gift, have it as much
like yourself as possible, and it is sure to
be loved. If you are a poet, give me a
poem; if a painter, give me a picture; if a
florist, send me flowers. Then the gift con-
tains the soul of the giver, and you love
and cherish it almost as you would love and
cherish the being it represents,
	It is very nice to have a home filled with
the costliest ornaments of art, such as,

[Column 3]
statues, pictures, vases, &c., but how few
there are who can afford these things, yet
there are none who cannot afford to deco-
rate their home, with the work of their
own hands. Too much time is spent now
on one's personal appearance. To be sure,
we cannot be too careful about making our-
selves neat and pretty, but for a young lady
to devote all her time and intellect on ar-
ranging her costume is simply absurd; yet
there are many who do this and whose
only thought is "How can I make myself
fashionable and attractive?" Alas! what a
mistake, that a pretty face and dress will
do this. If you really wish to be attractive,
decorate your face with smiles, your mind
with knowledge and learning, and your
person with good manners; then every one
will love and admire you. A well-stored
mind is sought after for the ideas it can
impart, a cheerful disposition for the hap-
piness it spreads over all who come in con-
tact with it, for it gives life to those who
are near, just as the sun gives life to the
things it shines upon. Such a mind and
nature is far more attractive than the pret-
tiest face, and the consciousness of making
others happy is sure to bring happiness to
one's self.
	[unreadable handwritting] CAMELIA.


TRUTH.

	Truth, then, is not always agreeable?
Indeed it is not. Truth, taking it as a
whole, is not  agreeable. Every  man,
woman and child dislikes it. There are
agreeable truths and disagreeable truths,
and it is the province of discretion or
sound judgment to make a selection from
these, and not to employ them indiscrim-
inately. Speaking the truth is not always
a virtue. Concealing it is very often jud-
cious. It is only when duty calls upon
you to reveal the truth that it is commend-
able. A tale-teller may be a truth teller;
but every one dislikes the character of a
person who goes frm one house to another,
and inter-communicates all he sees or hears;
we never stop to inquire whether he speaks
the truth or not. He is perhaps all the
worse for speaking the truth, for truth is
particularly offensive in such cases, and
never fails to set families at variance. Si-
lence is discretion, and concealment of facts
is judicious.


ANTIDOTE TO POISON.

	If a person swallows any poison whatever,
or has fallen into convulsions from having
overloaded the stomach, an instantaneous
remedy, most efficient and applicable in a
large number of cases, is a heaping tea-
spoonful of common salt, and as much
ground mustard, stirred rapidly in a tea-
cupful of water, warm or cold, and swal-
lowed instantly. It is scarcely down before
it begins to come up, bringing with it the
remaining contents of the stomach; and lest
there be any remnant of the poison, how-
ever small, let the white of an egg or a tea-
spoonful of strong coffee be swallowed as
soon as the stomach is quiet because these
very common articles nullify a large num-
ber of virulent poisons. - Medical Brief.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. ﻿


R. S. REPORTS.

	Synopsis of the General Retrenchment
Meeting held in the Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly Rooms Sept. 13, 1879, Coun. E. R.
Snow presiding. After the usual exercises
of singing, prayer and reading of minutes,
Miss E. R. Snow addressed the audience
on the importance of a spiritual and intel-
lectual education, the necessity of mothers
having great wisdom, because they give
character to the child, and that woman's
work was of as much importance as man's.
Our young people marry and go out to form
new settlements - how much they stand in
need of intelligence and the spiritual as
well as mental training they can obtain
through these associations if they are dili-
gent. She made some excellent remarks
upon faith and upon other subjects. In
concluding she expressed a wish that the
sisters who were not in the habit of ad-
dressing that meeting would rise and speak.
Acting upon her suggestions, Sisters Tuft,
Luce, Wheeler, Hudson, Louie Felt,
Griggs, Due and several others spoke
upon the principles of the Gospel, and re-
lated incidents and experiences calculated
to strengthen each other in faith and good
works.
	At the close of the meeting Miss E .R.
Snow said, " I feel this has been a sweet
feast to me this afternoon."

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A report of the first Conference of the
Relief Societies in  Sanpete Stake of Zion,
held at Manti City on Monday, May 18.
We were blessed with the presence of Sis-
ters Eliza R. Snow and M. I. Horne, who
were making a visit through the county,
holding meetings and organizing Primary
Associations.
	The Conference was called to order by
Sister M. A. P. Hyde, President of Stake
R. S. There were present on the stand,
Sister Eliza R. Snow, M. I. Horne, M. A.
Hyde and her counselors, Elizabeth Allred
and Anna Larsen, also the Presidents of
the several Societies of the Stake Presi-
dent Petersen, his Counselor, Brother Mai-
ben, and many others.
	The reports of the several Societies were
read, which showed that the sisters had
been alive to their duties and energetic in
assisting in the work of God.
	Sister Hyde expressed her thankfulness
for having the presence of the sisters from
Salt Lake City on such an important occa-
sion, and made many excellent remarks on
plural marriage, bearing testimony; also
exhorted us to be careful that our works
might be accepted of the Lord, &c., &c.
	Sister Snow then addressed the congre-
gation on home manufacture and on becom-
ing self-sustaining. Asked the sisters if
they were preparing for Babylon to fall.
Told them to take hold of silk manufactur-
ing, and plant out mulberry trees, and pre-
pare to make their own apparel. Spoke of
having a Hospital that could be controlled
by those of our own faith, that there could
be a place where the young girls could be
taught to administer herbs in faith, and
become good, efficient nurses and under-
stand the human system.
	She then organized a Silk Association,
with Rebecca Wareham, President, Mary
Lowry and Maria Weibe, Counselors, Alvira
C. Cox, Secretary, Edith Billings, Treasurer;
and all the members of the Relief Societies
and Y. L. M. I. Associations as members of
the Silk Association; also appointed an
acting agent in each settlement.
	President Petersen then expressed his
gratification with the proceedings of the
Conference and the remarks that had been
made. Spoke to some extent on home
manufacture. Asked God to bless Sister
Snow and all the sisters in their labors to
build up the kingdom of God, and all the
Saints with love and union.
	Afternoon meeting. President M. A.
Hyde organized the Y. L. M. I. Associa-
tions in a Stake capacity: Helen Armstrong
was chosen President, Christina Willertsen
and Matilda Delain, Counselors, Viola Van-
Cott, Secretary, Sophia Andersen, Treasurer.
	Sister Horne then addressed the congre-
gation upon the training of children. Said
it was very necessary for mothers to have
the Spirit of God to direct them, that they
might be enabled to teach their children in
the spirit of the Gospel, and fit them to be-
come celestial beings. Told the mothers to
teach them the principles of the Gospel be-
fore they arrived to  years of accountability.
	A number of other sisters spoke; all felt
highly edified with the instructions given
by our worthy Sisters Snow and Horne.
They were sufficient, if observed and put
into practice by the people, to qualify them
for an exaltation in the celestial kingdom
of our God, which is hoped will be our
happy lot.
	The Second Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Societies of Sanpete Stake was held
at Ephraim City, Monday, Aug. 18.
	The congregation was called to order by
the President, Mary A. P. Hyde. The
usual opening exercises of singing and
prayer were offered. The reports of the
several Societies, from their first organiza-
tion were read, also the Stake report, and
accepted. 
	It was surprising to all present to hear
the amount that had been donated for dif-
ferent purposes since the organizing of the
Societies, most of which were organized in
the year 1868. They have donated to the
local poor, $57,698 38; to the P. E. Fund,
$4000 43; to the Temple, $2,126 69; for
sundries and stationery, $695 30; Mission-
aries, $281 00; have stored 3,022 bushels of
wheat.
	After the reading of the reports, the
President of each Society, represented her
respective Society as being in a good con-
dition, and all the sisters being united in
the interest of the Society. A number of
other sisters spoke upon different subjects,
but principally upon union and home manu-
factures.
	Pres. E. R. Snow was presented to the
congregation, also the officers of the Relief
Society of this Stake, and unanimously
sustained. Elder Henry Beal, Counselor
to Pres. Petersen, was present, and urged
the sisters to go on as they have been do-
ing, and stated that they would outstrip
the brethren in union and in carrying out
the United Order.
	The choir sang. Benediction. Ad-
journed until Nov. 18.
	Previous to our Conference the people of
the whole Stake were blessed with a visit
from Sisters E. B. Wells and Elizabeth
Howard, who kindly made a tour through
the county, holding meetings and speaking
most appropriately to both old and young.
	Their remarks were spirited, full of truth
and intelligence, and plainly showed that
their whole hearts were for the welfare of
the human family, and for the accomplish-
ment of God's purposes upon the earth.
	Their remarks to the children were so
kind, plain, and so fitted to their tender
minds, that they will leave an impression
for good that will remain to the end of the
lives of many; and will be like seed sown
upon good ground, or bread cast upon the
waters that will be seen after many days in
the character of noble men and women.
	The Primary Association of this place is
in a promising condition, under the guid-
ance of their amiable and kind President,
Sister Sarah Ellis, and Counselors Sisters
Patrea Hitchcock and Miss Christena Lar-
sen.
	They held their First Conference the 31st
of Aug. They have gathered $2.40 for the
temple, and are now improving the oppor-
tunity of gleaning wheat to reserve for
famine. They have also remembered Sis-
ter E. R. Snow's instructions to plant white
beans, and have acted upon it, and each
member is to give a quart this fall to add
to their store of grain.
	They are preparing for famine with all
the ambition and energy that the humming-
bee, or ant, does for winter; and may God
bless them with plenty in the time of need
is the prayer of
	Your sister in the Covenant,
		FANNY KOFFORD, Cor. Sec'y.

		MILLARD STAKE REPORT.

	At a mass meeting of the ladies of Mil-
lard Co. held Jan. 28, 1879, the Relief So-
ciety of the Stake was organized, the fol-
lowing sisters being unanimously sustained
as officers of the Board, viz.: Belinda M.
Pratt, President, Delilah K. Olsen and Sarah
L. Partridge, Counselors, D. K. Olsen, Sec-
retary.
	Our first Quarterly Conference convened
in the 1st Ward Meeting House, Fillmore,
Feb. 23, Pres. B. M. Pratt presiding. Pres-
ent of the priesthood, Pres. I. N. Hinckley,
Edward Partridge, and J. V. Robison; the
Bishops and a number of other brethren
attended by invitation; also a large attend-
ance of the members. After the usual
opening exercises Pres. Pratt stated the
object of the meeting, and desired the re-
ports of the different wards be presented,
which were read by the Secretary.
	Pres. Hinckley and others addressed the
sisters, referring to various principles of
the Gospel connected with the Relief Socie-
ties. 
	Sister B. M. Pratt then made a few clos-
ing remarks, expressing a desire to assist
both in temporal and spiritual works, also
her entire satisfaction with the efforts of
the sisters. Conference adjourned for three
months.
	Statistical and Financial Report of the
Relief Society of Millard Co. for the year
ending Feb. 23, 1879. Statistical: Mem-
bers enrolled, 488; Average attendance,
162. Financial: Property on hand 1877,
41,754 49; Receipts to this date, $1,568 39.
Disbursements, for charitable purposes,
$187 96; Temple, $31 67; Expenditures,
$69 63; Property on hand to this date,
$2,745 63; Wheat, cash price, $290 99;
Total, $3,325 88.


LITERARY WORK FOR YOUNG
LADIES.

	NEPHI, Sept, 19 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Young Ladies Mutual Improvement
Association meets every Friday. Our
exercises consist in lectures from the Bible
and Book of Mormon; also songs, select
reading and recitations. We have edited
a paper in our Association, three years, the
name of the paper is "The Young Ladies
Journal." It is issued weekly; contains
original articles, and selections upon relig-
ious subjects.	Respectfully
					SADA HOYT, Secy.,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT		67


[For the EXPONENT.
A LITTLE SONG.

There is a song, a tender song,
	Its words are veiled in foreign tongue
But on its cadence floats along
	The sweetest burden ever sung.

I know not what its words may be,
	But oh! I know the music's power;
How sweet! how deep! Its charm for me
	Will haunt my heart forevermore.

This little song of a far clime,
	One voice unto my ear hath taught;
My heart-strings thrill beneath its chime;
	That voice with sweetest magic fraught.

No other song, no other voice,
	Hath e'er such charming in its tone;
It bids my spirit faint, rejoice,
	Yet chimeth with life's saddest moan.

O tender heart! that holds the song,
	O tender voice! that makes the spell;
I know the many thoughts that throng,
	The words that lips will never tell.

And when hereafter you will sing,
	Through twilight, wafts of song and hymn,
This one will come, and with it bring
	A memory, though faint and dim.

Of far-gone, pleasant summer days;
	You'll think of one who once was here;
Wandering content 'mid rural ways,
	To whom this little song was dear.

				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


[For the EXPONENT.
A FEW HINTS ABOUT FLOWERS.

	Repot your Calla's now and give them
plenty of sunshine and water if you wish
early winter blossoms. In my modest
collection of house-plants my Calla's hold
supreme sway as my favorites; though I
am quite partial to my bright colored
geraniums and heliotrope for they (the
geraniums) do brighten up one's rooms so
on a dull winter's day when all without is
cold and white and cheerless. I rather
think every body has a hobby of some sort
and I freely conf[-]ss house-plants is mine;
and a real nice hobby it is too. I don't
think there is any work (if I may call it
work) that I enjoy, about the house so much
as trimming, watering and attending to my
house-plants. I give my lilies rich soil
with plenty of sand to make good drainage
and hot water in the saucer every morning;
and O, how they repay one for a little care
with great white waxy blossoms, graceful
foliage and delicious fragance. I prefer
east windows if possible for my flowers,
though south, or west will do nicely
especially in the winter as then they are not
likely to have more sunshine than they
need. For vines I have English, German
and Kenilworth ivies, or mother of thous-
ands, some call the latter. I must not
forget to mention the Maraunda vine which
is lovely to train about the windows, or
around pictures; it bears a beautiful little
bell-shaped flower in white and purple
which makes it more attractive to me, than
either of the others: though all or any of
them are nice to train about the walls and
windows. They must be kept moist and
given plenty of light and they will do
almost anything you want them to in the
way of twining.
	The Kenilworth ivy looks very pretty in
the pot with your lilies or other tall plants,
and grows so quick it soon covers the earth
and pot. And I am quite sure if any of the
readers of this article will try the experi-
ment they will be satisfied with the result.
The leaves of the English ivy need to be
washed with soapsuds about once a month,
if you wish it to thrive in the house: its
dark green leaves are a pretty contrast to


the German ivy, or Maraunda vine which
ismuch more delicate in shade and tendril
A very pretty idea is to make yourself or
get some handy young man to make for
you, a wooden cross ten or twelve inches
high, and stick it in the pot with some one
of your vines, and they will twine about it
so thickly you will hardly be able to see
the wood at all, and will be tempted to
think you have a cross of living green.
The Maraunda is especially pretty for
this purpose.			ROSABEL.


[Column 1]
ADUMBRATED PORTRAIT.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Sketches of character, traced from the
"mind's eye" of one who believes with
the eminent poet, Pope, that "the noblest
study of mankind is man."

STARS

That have passed across my orbit, shedding
in their transit a stray ray or two on my
path of life—spirits, that have passed be-
fore me and are enshrined within the tem-
ple of my heart forever!

CHARACTER.—1ST.

	Presence, carriage and bearing majestic,
and Siddons-like manners, gracious, cour-
teous and conciliating, yet humble and un-
assuming; features of a high and lofty
character, forehead capacious, eyes, those
"windows of the soul," grey and lustrous,
large and pupilling, capable of that com-
plex expression which a fine grey eye alone
exhibits, denoting a cultivated, intellectual,
penetrating, observant soul! shadowing
forth by their brilliancy the jewels of the
casket, yet so passionless, so searching, that
if one had anything to conceal they would
recoil from their quiet scrutiny; a mouth
displaying the firmness and purity of the
character, by the compression and delicacy
of the chiseled lips.
	Yet withal, this being was so mild, seem-
ingly so raised above human weaknesses,
soaring ever above the waves of life's tem-
pestuous ocean, that "'twas an 'ark," where
many a weary "dove" sought and found
repose, found rest, found happiness and
peace; and the loftiness, which almost re-
pelled by its grandeur, melted when we
saw that eye look liquid, that mouth en-
compassed by the workings of emotion at
the sorrows of another, and we loved this 
being the more when we discovered, amid
all its superiorities, it was still "one of us!"
A manly mind, but, dearer still, a truly
feminine heart, was the summary of this
rarely found character!
	Religious in the best sense of the word,
without cant, without Pharisaical assump-
tion, without display, nothing gloomy,
nothing ascetic, nothing exclusive—the
loving, compassionate, charitable Spirit of
the Divine Founder of Christianity, was the
model after which it was cast.
	Conversation condensed and appropriate,
every word telling, with a cheerfulness, and
playfulness, that won all with the sweetness
of their healthy tones. In filial duty, and
in every relative affection, exemplary! In
friendship warm, loving and sincere, ready
at all times to stretch forth a helping hand,
whether to nurse, to comfort, to cheer, to
smoothe the dying pillow, to sustain the
drooping soul, by holding forth the light of
revelation with the simplicity, humility
and love of a disciple of the Savior; a faith
nothing could shake, firm, relying and
child-like.

[Column 2]
	Were there no shades in this bright char-
acter, do you ask? 'Twas human, and that
is ever imperfect; but let not the eye of de-
voted friendship search out, or the hand
trace the shadow upon such a dial; for none
were more alive to the humbling traits of
humanity, none more truly felt that the
gold must have its alloy, none in greater
humility would exclaim: "By the grace of
God I am what I am!"
	Ever possessing a noble, independent
mind, doing good to all with the means
possessed, in prosperity grateful, in trial
submissive and resigned, kissing with
meekness the rod of the Great Father of
the universe, knowing there is a "silver
lining to every cloud." In sickness still
maintaining the same cheerfulness, the
same playfulness, the same resignation, and
in death—yes, alas! alas! in death, that
hour of trial and of truth, joyfully trium-
phant, dying as the erring should die, with-
out parade, without display, alone resting
on the "Rock of Ages." Why fall my
tears? They are purely selfish; no, not all
selfish, they fall over a bright page of mem-
ory, which friendship, reverence and love has
forever turned down on the tablet of my
heart.

(To be continued.)


ALFRED TENNYSON.

	Alfred Tennyson, D. C., is a popular
English poet, the third son of George Clay-
ton Tennyson, rector of Clayton Parish.
He was born at Somerby, in Lincolnshire,
in 1809. He was educated at Trinity Col-
lege, Cambridge, where he obtained a prize
for an English poem in blank verse on
"Timbuctoo," in 1820. He was still an
undergraduate of Trinity Collage when he
published a volume entitled, "Poems,"
chiefly lyrical, in 1830. In 1833 he
published another volume of poems, includ-
ing among others, that exquisite thing,
"The May Queen." (As I write this, the
dear old song and music comes back to me,
when so free and careless I sang it so often
in days of Lang Syne). He also wrote
about this time "The Palace of Art," "A
Dream of Fair Women," and others, which
compared with his earlier efforts, show
great improvement in richness of thought 
and beauty of imagery. His "Princess: A
Medley," is an admirable poem. "In
Memoriam,, is a beautiful tribute to the 
memory of his friend, Arthur H. Hallam.
"Maud" and, "Enoch Arden" are especially
liked by all poetry lovers, also "Idyls of the 
King." Those were published, respective-
ly, in 1859, and 1864.
	Tennyson succeeded Wordsworth as poet
laureate, in 1851.
	The Quareterly Review says of Mr. Ten-
nyson's poetry:—"After the descriptive
beauty of the laureate's verse, perhaps no
quality of it is more highly praised than its
measure," and truly the purity and delicacy
of its movements is almost beyond praise.
Though certain common excellences may
make a plausible resemblance, yet in truth,
no contrast is greater than that between the
jeweled beauty of Mr. Tennyson's style and
the crystalline effulgence—the "non imit-
able [-]ulgur"—of the great ancients. Ten-
nyson has resided on the Isle of Wight for
some years.
	In 1870 he published the "Holy Grail."
The readers of the HOME are doubtless
familiar with his later poems, so I will not
take the space to enumerate them.
					OLIVE HARRINGTON.
	AMERICAN HOME.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, OCT. 1, 1879.


DO WOMEN EARN MONEY?

	From the way women are referred to, gener-
ally speaking, one would think they were not
entitled to anything, except what they ob-
tained by favor.  Recently a gentleman ob-
served, "Oh, yes, I know that women are giv-
ing a great deal of means for this and that in
their organizations, but where does it all come
from?  Out of the husband's pocket."  Just as
much as to say woman, the wife, the mother,
has no right to anything.  It all belongs to
him, her lord, her master.  It is time the ta-
bles were turned and the other side of the pic-
ture shown.  "One story is good until another
is told" is a homely proverb, but nevertheless
it is a true one.  It is time that women them-
selves estimate the value of their own work,
at any rate appreciate the worth of their own
lives.  How many wives toil from early morn
until late at night, and even into the "wee
sma' hours," and it is scarce recognized?  Per-
haps, were the husband interrogated, he might
say, "Oh, she is a prudent, good woman, she
obeys me, she keeps her place," and so on, but
how few comparatively will say, "Yes, she has
worked as faithfully as I have to accumulate
this property, to make the home, to educate
the children.  And yet, in how many instan-
ces this is really the case.  We remember dis-
tinctly when quite a little girl, of hearing a
clergyman say," My wife never earned a cent
in all her life," and we know, too, that this
good, faithful wife was a complete slave; that
she did more actual work than half a dozen
college-bred gentlemen like himself, and had
more brains.  Do any of you readers know
what is expected of the wife of a clergyman in
a country village or small town?  Do you
know what it is to be the wife of a Bishop?
There is a strong similarity.  This excellent
woman did her own household work, kept his
clerical broadcloth in repair, waited upon him
as if she was his servant instead of his wife,
and was complained of when she was not
dressed to receive company, because, forsooth,
he had his sermons to write, and it took him
four days in a week; and when he was in his
study and his wife had her housework, mend-
ing, making, knitting, baby-tending and all to
do he would call to her every few minutes to
hear this, or that he had written, or suggest
ideas, or look up Latin and Greek he had for-
gotten.  But upon no account could he be dis-
turbed when he was in his study, for their
bread and butter depended upon it.  And so
he preached the very sermons her fertile brain
helped him to write, and dressed with scrupu-
lous nicety, and walked in his garden when
his head ached: but she bent over the baby's
crib, or the hot cooking stove, tired, weary,
and often sick at heart, while the Reverend
arried off the honors, and the young ladies
and the old maids admired his genius and won-
dered at his plain, domestic wife, and thought
she did not half appreciate him.
	And so it is--this man whose wife was a treas-
ure  in every way, finely educated, the daugh-
ter of a clergyman herself, was shut up in the
house from year to year, planning, scheming,
toiling, heart and mind in a constant strain,
to know how to economize, and live genteelly,
and feed, clothe and educate the children, on
the very small salary her husband had the
honor of earning; but "she," poor thing,
"never earned a cent." 
	There are many such records as this all
around; there is no need to go back for them.
We do not allude to the class of women who
are a dead weight in the community, who live
only for pleasure, and are always complaining
of "ennui," but to wives and mothers who
toil from morn till eve, rearing families, and
are so much occupied with work that they
have scarcely time to call upon a friend, or
answer a letter.  Do they earn any money?
Has their time and labor any real money value?
We insist that it has, moreover, that the hus-
band who says whatever she uses is his, does
her an injustice, to say the least.  Does he ask
his wife when he wants to make a trade, or a
purchase, or treat a friend, or bestow charity,
or give his note, or put his name to a note for
a friend; and yet the last two concern the wel-
fare of his family, it may be very materially.
No, of course he don't tell his wife; it is not
her business, she wouldn't understand it if he
did, and it would be a source of annoyance.
The money is his, the property he has earned,
so he thinks and sometimes says, and he gives
her what she needs, so far as he can afford.
	Out of these very simple things great evils
have grown, women who had not the moral
courage to ask for what they wanted, and we
must confess it takes a great deal, but who
have sufficient sense to realize they have some
rights, that they cannot and dare not contend
for, have often been led to deceive, to do things
"on the sly," as it is termed, and justify them-
selves in doing so, feeling that they have a
perfect right to do it; but this is not all - what
effect does a course of this kind, a lifetime of
deceit, have upon the children?  We speak
advisedly when we say there have been in-
stances of this sort, and they are not rare.
Every person who knows anything of the laws
of human nature, must be aware that such a
course would be disastrous to the best interests
of a family, and that there could be no real,
true harmony in the domestic circle where
there was deception, fear and want of confi-
dence.  Where does the blame fall?  Probably
in nine cases out of ten it would be attributed
to the wife.  This  is  a subject  that  much
might be said upon.
	The wife who performs her home-duties
faithfully has no time to earn money outside
her home while she is rearing her children,
but she earns money at home.  Certainly wo-
men earn money.  If a person comes into the
house to do the work, that person must be
paid in money, or its equivalent.  Yet men
will say without a blush,  "My wife never
earned a cent"  And if she happens to be-
stow anything for "charity's sweet sake," it is
not hers, it came out of her husband's pocket.
	We are thankful there are noble men, who
do not entertain these narrow views; and as
women become conversant with business mat-
ters, step out of the kitchen now and then, as-
sociate together in a way calculated to elevate
and benefit each other, study the best methods
of life, health and vigor of body and mind, do
their own thinking, seeking to become good
mothers and rear children who will be an
honor to their parents, having sound bodies
and vigorous intellects, these evils which exist
today may in a great measure be eradicated.
Another and better day will dawn upon wo-
man,  and we believe even in the "magical
matter of money."  The position of women
with relation to money is one which might be
discussed by  intelligent  women advanta-
geously.
	One of the lessons taught in an association
of women should be to use money wisely and
make better investments than the extravagant
adornments of their own persons.  There are
women, who, with the resources they have,
could help much in enterprises that are for the
general good, and thus materially benefit so-
ciety; but when it is expended in tawdry, or
expensive jewelry, elaborate costumes, and
luxuries which only undermine the health, it
is a curse instead of a blessing. The econo-
mizing and saving money from useless ex-
penses and superfluous waste, is one of the
relative duties of woman to the household.
The enormous risks and lavish outlays of busi-
ness men leave this care devolving upon wo-
men, if they have any forethought, or desire
to be a true helpmeet.  One thing we always
notice, that those who are most splendidly
dressed, seldom have anything to give; their
pockets are empty and their hearts are desti-
tute of generosity or benevolence.  Women
who dress simplest and work hardest, as a
rule are the ones who are most useful and most
generous in every public need or enterprise.
	It is necessary, in order that woman may
fulfill the sacred mission given her in this
Church, that she should be highly endowed
with opportunities for culture, and that she
should comprehend her own needs, her true
value; that she make no reckless expenditure
of time, or of bodily or mental power, nerve,
or brain force, in order to ensure an enlightened
motherhood, and that she may walk side by
side with man, her brother, as a co-recipient of
divine blessings and influence, without any
"cruel limit" to her sphere of usefulness, or
education, mental or spiritual, for "the man is
not without the woman nor the woman with-
out the man in the Lord."  But to conclude;
if men will transact the business and fill the
posts of honor and importance, earning the
money, women should be able to judiciously
save, and saving is equivalent to earning.
	How much would a man have to pay out, for
having his socks darned, and his linen kept in
order during his lifetime, leaving out all other
items?					E. B. Wells


HOME AFFAIRS.

	ON SUNDAY Sisters M. I. Horne and E. S.
Taylor visited Sandy Station and organized a
Primary Association, Mrs. Margaret Maginnis
President.
	ON FRIDAY and Saturday, Sept. 19 and 20,
Sisters Eliza R. Snow and Elizabeth Howard
attended the Quarterly Conference of the Re-
lief Societies, Young Ladies' M. I. A. and Pri-
mary Associations of Weber Stake of Zion,
Mrs. Hattie Brown presiding.
	ON THURSDAY, Sept. 18, Miss E. R. Snow
visited Kaysville, held two meetings and or-
ganized the children of each district into a
Primary Association. Mrs. Jane Blood was
appointed President of the first district, and
Mrs. Mary Ann Macpherson of the second dis-
trict.
	WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 24, Sisters M. I Horne,
S. M. Heywood and Phebe Woodruff attended
the Annual meeting of the Relief Society of


[Column 1]
Brinton, Big Cottonwood Ward, Mrs. Eliza-
beth Howard presiding. In the evening the
sisters held a general meeting, which many of
the brethren of the ward attended.

	TO-DAY IS the opening of the Territorial
Fair; great pains have been taken by the sev-
eral committees to make it a success in every
way, and we sincerely hope it will be well pa-
tronized, and help to promote the industrial
pursuits and home manufactures of the Terri-
tory. There is a creditable representation from
the women in their line of work and orna-
mentation.

	MRS. MARTHA B. Young has returned from a
visit to her relatives in the East. She traveled
down in company with Lieut. Willard Young,
and returned alone. Mrs. Young spent most
of the time with her relatives in Mt. Holly
New Jersey, her native place, but she also
visited her brother in Philadelphia. She
enjoyed her visit very much, and her health
improved during her journey, but her friends
did not wish to hear anything about the Gospel.

	THE WOMAN'S Conference of this Stake of
Zion was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assem-
bly Rooms Friday and Saturday last, Mrs.
M. I. Horne presiding. The time was almost
entirely occupied with the verbal and written
reports of Relief Society, Young Ladies' and
Primary Associations. Saturday afternoon
Pres. A. M. Cannon and his Counselor Joseph
E. Taylor was present and set the board of of-
ficers of the Relief Society Stake apart to their
office and calling.

	AN ORDINARY-SIZED weekly newspaper has
been started in Logan, called 'The Logan
Leader." Its editor is Mr. Frank Cannon, son
of Hon. George Q. Cannon. We have received
