VOL. 8.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1879.		No. 14.


[For the EXPONENT.
PLEASURES OF LIFE.

There are pleasurs of life that fade away,
As the sunset glow of a summer day.
Leaving slight trace upon heart or brain,
And are scarcely remembered in life again.

And there are pleasures whose seal is set
On the soul too deep to ere forget,
And are links in the magic chain of life,
With its mingled threads of joy and strife.

The scenes of childhood so fresh and fair,
In memories' halls the brightest there,
And pictures that fade not neath saddest fate
Are the dear hearth-stone and homestead gate.

What heart but hath some treasured thoughts,
That could not with wealth untold be bought;
How deathless the ties of the old home seem
Where young love dreamed her brightest dreams.

Is it wrong to turn from the heat of noon,
To the morning that faded alas! too soon;
To forget for a moment the dust and pain,
That clog the footsteps and madden the brain.

Bright green spots in the desert abound,
Sparkling waters too there are found
Music steals oft to the listening ear
Soothing the heart and banishing fear.

So do we turn to the joys that live,
Through every shadow that life may give;
Pause to look mid the hearts deep store,
For love that blessed us in days of yore.

And what are the pleasures that never die,
But remain while many pass lightly by?
Each one can answer their own heart best,
After times true hand has given the test.

It may be one word has cast a light,
Over some scene else dark as night:
Weaving a picture so rich and rare,
That even the angels might treasure it there.

In their home of light to fade no more,
But live for aye on that golden shore,
Where we'll find the crown of flowers most bright
Was culled in the midst of deepest night.

										HOPE.


[Column 1]
CHRISTMAS THOUGHTS.

	The wheels of time have rolled around,
until Christmas has come again—the day of
all days in the year which is looked forward
to by the "little folks," who have anxiously
counted the months, then the weeks, and
lastly the days, until it should arrive. It
has come at last, bringing with it that time-
honored, world-renowned friend of the 
juveniles, Santa Claus. This imaginary
personage is pictured out as a little old
man, dressed in furs, hung with bells, and
carrying a huge pack on his back, contain-
ing all kinds of toys; he is also represented
as being very fond of music—which, by 
the way, would not require a great stretch
of the imagination to believe, after seeing
the great amount and variety of musical
instruments which he distributes, and list-
ening on Christmas morning to the confus-
ing din occasioned by the whistles, harps,
trumpets, bells, etc., etc. But who, not-
withstanding the noise, can look on those
happy, joyous, innocent faces, and not par-
ticipate in their pleasure and enjoyment,
and feel in their hearts to offer up a prayer
of thanksgiving unto God for His innu-
merable blessings?
	Oh! that all little ones were as comfort-
able and as well provided for as are the 
majority of ours in Utah, where the chil-
dren of different mothers, all belonging to

[Column 2]
the same happy family, may gather around
the same hearthstone, and around the same
"Christmas tree," each sharing alike in the
presents of all sorts with which it is decor-
ated, as they share equally in the love and
affections, and each bear the name of the
same father. But, alas! a very different
picture is presented in many parts of the
world, judging from accounts which are
furnished us by the newspapers. Christ-
mas, with its attendant frost and snow,
brings to many naught but increased mis-
ery, woe and wretchedness, which beggars
all description, visiting the homes of the 
poor with terrible want and suffering, pierc-
ing to the very bones the scantily clothed
mendicant on the street, nipping the toes
of the poor little homeless, barefooted ur-
chins, truly verifying the lines of a poem
which I remember once having read: "'Tis
a most bitter lot to be poor when it snows."
	When I read accounts of so much suffer-
ing and distress, I can but wonder if there
is a mother in the land who has the where-
with to alleviate the suffering of a human
being, whose heart is not touched by the
accounts which we hear of so much suffer-
ing and distress, and especially those who
are surrounded by it. Have people become
hardened to such sights? or, if not, how
can they go on in their extravagance, wast-
ing, for worse than useless purposes, that
which would save the life of a fellow-crea-
ture, who may be perishing for a morsel of
bread? Oh, what inconsistency! Such a
state of things as this certainly cannot be
right, and I firmly believe that when the
nations shall be fully ripened in iniquity,
these things will be somewhat changed,
and the innocent will not have to sufier
with the guilty.
							KATE.
	St. George.


LITERARY WORK.

	BRIGHAM CITY.
	We have edited a paper in the Young
Ladies Association of the first Ward, one 
year the first of last June. It is called,
"Young Ladies' Star." It is edited monthly
by the different members, and contributed
to by the same; it contains original essays
and selections, principally on religious sub-
jects.  Your Sisters.
		MISS. FANNY GRAEHL, Pres.
		MISS. OCTAVIA PIERCE, Sec'y.

	The Y. L. M. [-]. Association of the second
Ward, Brigham City, edit a semi monthly,
manuscript paper entitled, The Young
Ladies' Gazette, and change Editors with
every number; size two sheets foolscap
paper, contributers the officers and members
of the Association who write upon various
subjects.
	The second Volume is now being written
which commenced last June.

	We edit a semi-monthly manuscript
paper entitled the "Young Ladies' Gazette"
of the Third Ward of Brigham City. We
change editor and contributors with each
number, the writings are mostly original


written upon various subjects. We are
now writing the second volume.
			AMELIA D. MADSEN, Pres.

	The Paper edited by the Young Ladies
of the Fourth Ward, Brigham City, is en-
titled "The Young Ladies' Journal" a man-
uscript, published Semi-Monthly, each issue
changes editor, chosen from the Association:
	It contains select readings, essays upon
various religious subjects as also the prin-
ciples of our religion and other matter.
Original Poetry, Wit, Humor, etc., etc.
				MARTHA WILDE, Pres.
				LETTIE L. DUNN, Sec'y


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE "Athenceum" says that Miss Colenso,
a daughter of the Bishop of Natal, is en-
gaged in writing a history of the late Zulu
war.
	THE House committee on Rules, author-
ized Representative Frye to report a resolu-
tion for the creation of nine members to
whom shall be referred all matters intro-
duced in the House which relate to woman
suffrage.
A JURY OF WOMEN.—Mrs. Theresa Gueck
died recently in Cheyenne, Wyoming Ter-
ritory, under circumstances that rendered
necessary the impaneling of a coroner's
jury. Mary C. Graham, Elsie H. Conroy,
Lizzie A. Abney, Isabella Wilford, Augusta
Hufschmidt and Sarah Casper were sum-
moned and sworn. They listened to the
testimony, and rendered a verdict in accord-
ance with the facts. This is the first in-
stance in history of a corner's jury composed
exclusively of women.—EX.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Frivolity under whatever form it appears,
takes from attention its strength, from
thought its originality, from feeling its
earnestness.—Madam De Stael.

	Pupil—"I know how many days there
are in a year—three hundred and sixty-five
and a fourth." Parent—"Is that so? Where
does that fourth come in?,, Pupil—"Fourth
of July."—Ex.

	The Conntess de Montijo died at Madrid,
before her daughter, the ex-Empress Eu-
genie of France, could reach the City.

	King Alfonso of Spain and the Austrian
Archduchess Maria Christian were married
at Madrid on Saturday, the nuptials being
solemnized with great pomp and ceremony
at the Atocha Church. The city abounded
in decorations in honor of the occasion,
and the young sovereigns were everywhere
received with cordial manifestations of
favor.


A GREAT man under the shadow of de-
feat is taught how precious are the uses of
adversity; and, as an oak-tree's roots are
strengthened by its shadow, so all defeats
in a good cause are but resting places on the
road to victory at last.—Charles Sumner.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


GOOD MANNERS.

     BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	In our last article on this subject we had
commenced the subject of table etiquette
but did not finish, so we will add something
more on that subject. It is really a very
nice thing to deport one’s self well at table.
Every real lady or gentleman knows how
disagreeable it is to sit at table with vulgar
ill-bred people.
	“As soon as seated remove your gloves,
place your napkin across your lap. If
oysters are ready served begin to eat; it is
very old-fashioned to wait for others to com-
mence. Bread is broken at dinner; vege-
tables are eaten with a fork. Asparagus
can be taken in the fingers if preferred,
olives and artichokes always are. Fish and
fruit are eaten with (silver) knives and
forks. In England it is considered to be
underbred ever to transfer the fork to the
right hand. You are at liberty to refuse a
dish that you do not wish to eat. If any
course is set down before you that you do
not wish, do not touch it. Never play with
food, nor mince with your bread nor handle
the glass or silver near you unnecessarily.”
	Have no fear in taking the last piece on
the dish if is offered to you. It is more
uncivil to refuse it than to take it.
	“The duties of a hostess require both self-
possession and constant watchfulness to see
that all her guests are at their ease and have
every attention. She should not betray
any restlessness or disappointment whatever
may occur, and whatever may go wrong
never reprove a servant before any one.
Late guests should be as cordially treated
as if they came earlier. It is a rudeness
towards those who arrive punctual to keep
them waiting long. Thackerary is very
severe upon those who arrive late; but un-
avoidable mistakes in the hour made some-
times by those who are entirely innocent of 
any wish to produce a sensation, causes
guests to be very uncharitable although the
host and hostess may not be so. Reaching
the table, it was formerly the custom in old-
school circles for every lady to remain
standing until the hostess had reached her
chair, she not seating herself until after the 
ladies who were her guests were seated.
Now for the greater convenience of the
gentlemen who escort the ladies, they take
their seats,leaving their cavaliers to remain
standing until the hostess is seated. When
the hostess sees that all have finished she
looks at the lady on the right of the host,
and the company rise, and return in the
order they were seated without precedence.
Gentlemen cannot be invited without their
wives, where other ladies than those of the
family are present; or ladies without their
husbands, when other ladies are invited
with their husbands. This rule has no ex-
ceptions.”
	Mrs, Ward has considerable to say about
boys and girls in certain circles  controlling
society, and adds in these days intellect is 
transformed from the head to the heels,and 
when one asks what is discussed at parties
the appropriate answer would be “people
dance.” She thinks this state of things
will never be remedied until people learn
it is possible to receive friends without
turning their homes into a restaurant.
“Let those who have the gift of entertain-
ing by promoting conversation among their 
guests, and putting them at ease receive
their friends freely without feeding them,
	We have heard of late through the peri-
odicals of the day that the old customs of
inviting friends to breakfast and the more
injoyable “five o’clock teas are being re-

[Column 2]
vived, which involves much less expense
than the dinner. 
	Good manners render social intercourse
pleasant and delightful, and it is not only
exceedingly proper that all writers and
speakers of influence should do what they 
have the ability to do in this matter, but to 
us it seems to be an imperative duty. No
society will or can improve where the man-
ners are bad. The ancient philosophers
attached, a great degree of importance to
good manners, as also at a later period Lord
Bacon, Chesterfield and in our own time
Emerson Ruskin and others. Aristotle says
“manners are the lesser morals of life.”
Every person of ordinary intelligence knows
how much of happiness depends upon the
manners and bearing of people towards each
other.
	We should not be guilty of rudeness at
home,and if not we could hardly be so from
home. Lack of politeness in the home-circle
is one of the barriers to home-happiness. If
parents wish their children to be successful
or to be happy in their own homes, or to
diffuse happiness among those with whom
they associate, they shonld instruct them to
set a proper value upon good manners, and,
above all to be civil to every one. Children
should be taught how essential it is to be
grateful and appreciative. There is an
immense value in the manners of people
which has a potent influence in all the va-
rious departments of life, social, political,
and religious.


[Column 1]
BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION.

	On the Nov. 10th, Mrs. L. B. Pratt, Beaver,
celebrated her 77th birthday. A party of
gentlemen and ladies assembled at her
residence at an early hour P. M. counselor
L. M. Shepherd was called to the chrir
Patriarch J. Crosby was chosen chaplain.
There were a large number of ladies and
gentlemen in attendance, all with hearty
congratulations that their aged friend had at-
tained to such an advanced stage of life and
so well retained both her physical and men-
tal powers. Father H. J. White now in his
82d year made a spirited and commendable
speech; refering to his long acquaintance
with "Sister Pratt," even reaching back to
the early days of San Bernardino, before
his "hair was white like his name," and
she was comparatively a youthful woman:
full of energy and zeal for the cause of
truth; his high respect and friendship for
her had continued undiminished; he prayed
they might both "continue several years
longer, and abide steadfast in the faith, fear
and love of God, and of the great Latter-day
Work," all responded a hearty Amen:
Judge Cox spoke of the firm friendship and
intimacy that had existed between his
family and that of his honored friend for
more than a quarter of a century, testified to
her faithfulness in sustaining her family in
her long widowhood, while her husband
preached the Gospel on the distant Islands
of the Sea. Many of the sisters of the
Relief Society made appropriate remarks,
full of kindness and sympathy; Sisters
Cox, and Houd, referred to one trait in their
friend's character more prominent than any
other, that was, "her ability to discern beauty
where many persons would see only de-
formity; thus resembling the poet Robert
Burns." In the midst of the exercises a
serenading party came to the door; were
invited in, and entertained the company
with beautiful music. There were songs
and recitations, anecdotes and hymns,
Mrs. Pratt read the minutes of a former
anniversary, which was very amusing.
Wm. Fotheringham entertained the com-

[Column 2]
pany with an interesting account of his first
acquaintance with Sister Pratt and her
daughter, on his return from a mission to
India, and his stay in San Bernardino. He
also surprised the party with a comic song;
and more than surprized were they to have
a song from the septuagenarian; very amus-
ing and unexpected. The picnic was a
credit to every one who aided in preparing
it. The wishes and prophecies that went
round would give to "the lady" many more
returns, in health and peace, and the
annual assemblage of her friends to cheer
and comfort her; a happy deliverance when
called to bid adieu to mortal life, leaving
her nothing to regret but a separation, from
so many loving friends. A vote was taken to
have the minutes published, and to adjourn
the party to meet again the 10th, of Nov.
1880. Adjourned for the 4th, time.
On motion of the chaplain the company all
standing, sang,

"Oh, my father thou that dwellest
In the high and glorious place."

	Sister Pratt closed her acknowledgment
for favors and presents received, in the
following words

I thank my friends most cordially,
For kind attentions unto me;
I bless you all with life and peace,
And from all sin a full release.
May you all have a life as long
As mine, and be as brave and strong.
And ne'er be found in greater wrong.

					ONE OF THE PARTY.


MR. JACOB BRIGHT ON COLLEGES FOR
WOMEN.

	Speaking at the annual meeting of the
Manchester and Salford College for women,
held at the Manchester Town Hall, Mr.
Jacob Bright said he sometimes thought
that we might have a greater number of
highly educated women than of men, for
the reason that there were so many idle,
careless girls in the land. He would under-
take to say that during the last 20 or 30
years there had been more careless girls
living in England, in proportion to the pop-
ulation, in affluence and idleness than we
had ever seen before. He was satisfied
that they would be much happier and better
members of the community if, instead of
wasting their lives in luxurious drawing-
rooms, they gave themselves to intellectual
pursuits, and subjected their minds to the
discipline which was to be afforded by that
college. At the same time, while admit-
ing that the college was doing a good work,
he thought that work might be done in a
more effective manner another way. It ap-
peared to him to be the duty of a great
institution of learning like Owen's College
to undertake the work which the Man-
chester and Salford College for Women was
formed to accomplish. His feeling was
that if there were only one girl in the three
counties of Lancashire, Cheshire, and York-
shire, who came and knocked at the door of
Owen's College and asked for admission, if
that college opened its doors to her instead
of shutting them against her, it would
stand higher than it did now in the affec-
tions and respect of the people. The Bishop
of Manchester, who is president of the in-
stitution, one of the governors, and the
Rev. Canon Tonge replied to the remarks
of Mr. Bright, and opposed his views, con-
tending that the difficulties of the mixed-
class system alone were sufficient to prevent
the adoption of the course recommended by
the hon. gentleman.


INSPIRATION always waits upon the busy.
—Josh Billings.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		107


[For the EXPONENT.
VANISHED TOYS.

The dear little girl awaking
	Out of her balmy sleep,
As though her heart were breaking,
	Is begining softly to weep.
O! what is this wonderful sorrow
	That shadows the darling's eyes?
And what loving art can we borrow,
	To banish the sad surprise?

Then she says, her head on my shoulder,
	While sobbing still she clings
The closer, to arms that enfold her;
	"I want my beautiful things."
And unconsoled yet, though we find her,
	Her treasures and dolls every one;
She weeps, looking round and behind her;
	"They were beautiful, and they are gone."

So this is the mystery is it,
	Has conjured the grief and tear?
We were talking of Santa Claus visit
	And now she has dreamed he was here.
Ah! who can o'er take us the fancies?
	These spiteful and mischievous things,
That steal even dream-toys, the rarest,
	And flit on invisible wings.

Now Auntie, don't laugh at the baby,
	For haven't we all of us known,
Of dreams sent by Cupid and maybe,
	Have wakened to find they were flown?
And should some old cynic endeavor
	To prove us such dreamings are vain;
Would we, older, believe him? ah never!
	But listen and trust them again.

But as she can give no description
	Of the treasures from fairy-land bought;
Nor a clue to the mystic direction,
	In which the winged thieves might be sought;
Just listen a moment to mother;
	Here's an easy and beautiful plan,
And as we know of no other,
	We'll try it, as quick as we can.

Just dress her up warm in the furs,
	Santa Claus brought last year;
And wheel out that carriage of hers,
	With cushions and robes for the dear,
And take her all over the town,
	Where holiday toys are displayed,
For possibly they may be found,
	Amid other treasures arrayed.

And which ever the darling avers,
	Is the very same she lost;
Be sure that the things are hers,
	Whatever the size or cost.
And ah! might it ever be so,
	That waking from dreamings deep,
They may into realities grow
	And their beauty be hers to keep.

					AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Nov 30th.


[Column 1]
THE THEATRE AND THE TEMPLE.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	The Theatre has, in these days, so degen-
erated and so individualized itself, that one
feels almost to recoil in connecting it with
the Temple, yet it is certain they were
"born united," and in the early ages went
hand in hand in their glorious work of elevat-
ing, purifying and instructing the mighty
audiences that thronged the mighty edifices
of that age; and it is a mistaken idea to con-
sider those days as the "dark ages"—the
grandest minds were the "lights of the
world" in those days. Christianity was
not then upon the earth, but there was a
code of morals and manners far surpassing
later days, that are called the "enlightened."
And in the still earlier ages, the Theatre
and the Temple were one and the same
sanctuary— the religion of the ancients
took the form of popular shows; the very
arts had their birth at the foot of the altar.
The dance itself was introduced into reli-
gious assemblies. We learn this in one 
way—in reading that King David himself
danced before the ark, when bringing it in
triumph to the House of God. No one who
reads that scene understandingly can be-

[Column 2]
lieve there was the least lightness, or lev-
ity, in the performance. Every act is beau-
tiful and artistic when the spirit dictates
the body—and most especially when the
spirit is cultivated and refined, and dictated
to by the Spirit of God. Then there is a
power and a beauty that is irresistible. For
the display and demonstration of this, the
Theatre should be the legitamized organ—
a school for morals and for manners, for ar-
tistic beauty in its highest forms; and the
love of this lies deep in a thousand souls
that, alas! have never had the wand of cul-
tivation passed over them. Still, their
spirits are like a fine instrument, complete
in all its appendages, but needs the hand of
the musician to strike the chords that will
respond to the inspired touch. Watch the
absorbing interest of an honest audience
whose whole souls are engrossed by the
complex web developed before them, re-
joicing and applauding with sound hearts
and ringing voices at every escape from
peril, every successful achievement of a be
ing struggling with oppression, and bat-
tling manfully for his or her rights, and
who—who ever heard the mighty heartfelt
shout which so often rings and re-echoes
from parquette to gallery, coming from the
heart and going to the heart, when, in the 
end, by one great master-stroke, the bad is
struck down and the good soars aloft tri
umphant—whoever has heard this and be-
lieves not in the true, leal honesty, and had
not all faith in the good hearts and right
feeling which gave it birth? When a great
truth is uttered, a sharp and needed rebuke
inflicted, a stinging cut struck into vanity,
or hypocrisy, then such applause, endorsing
it, is a good and wholesome sound, and one
that puts us in good humor with humanity.
Yes, to evoke what is good in our hearts,
to summon forth the holy spark, which of-
ten lurks there unseen, but still unquenched,
to make us feel that despite the cold, selfish
crust, which long struggling with life, and
experience of some of its hollowness, is too
apt to encumber us with, that at the bot-
tom, the well of heart is still bright and
gushing, and that its streams can still leap
forth sparkling and fertilizing. To prove
all this, we have but to witness some noble,
deep, thrilling, dramatic performance, em-
bodied by men and women capable of com-
prehending the great authors. And there
are but very few clerical orators and teach-
ers of sacred things that can so waken up
the dormaut faculties, call out the strong
aspiration to imitate the glo[-]ious model
presented to their eye and heart.
	Why could not some of the strong and 
highly dramatic scenes of Scripture be
brought before the eyes of audiences, and
be made a powerful lever to awaken so
much religious feeling that lies dormant in
so many souls? Breaking up new ground
in many a now almost dormant heart and
brain. Why not? I fancy I have heard
something of this mooted by some party,
but am not clear on the point. To many, at
the present-time, the Scriptures are a sacred
book; to others it is "dry and uninterest-
ing." There is a cause for this, and let
every mother see that such apathy in a
yonug mind does not lie at her door; there
is not a little child born but might grow up
loving the Scriptures, and desiring to imi-
tate its models, if its infant mind was im-
bued with its simple but sublime pictures.
	One single family, six years ago—and
more especially two of its members—ele-
vated the London stage and all its compli-
cated appendages, till it did almost super-
cede the pulpit. The grand theatres were
thronged every night to suffocation. Men
and women rushed to the Theatre, that they

[Column 3]
might be lifted into a region, they had not
before dreamed of. Men whose eyes had
not shed tears since they could remember,
were melted down to "play the woman"
with their eyes, as a relief to their wrought-
up souls; their hardness was gone, their
souls became "clay in the hands of the pot-
ter;" they were ready to be laid on any
altar, so that they could but attain, if even
but a few stops, to the models so wonder-
fully portrayed before them. Men and
women left those scenes awakened to better
things—to arise to a higher platform than
they had yet stood upon. It is right and
good to awaken the senses as well as the
heart; they go hand in hand. All the fac-
ulties are given to make a perfect whole.
Mrs. Siddons and her brother, John Kem-
ble, were the magicians who wielded this
mighty power over a population of nearly
four millions—besides—the—provinces—and
their characters, as a man and woman, as a
lady and gentlemen, that even royalty de-
lighted to honor, stood before the country
fair and unimpeached. Their sculptured
forms are in the National galleries to day,
as well as their pictures by the first artists.
There were other stars revolving around
these planets, altogether forming a galaxy
that made the stage of that era a wonder
and a theme. Could not such a stage go
hand in hand with the pulpit, and one
unitedly assist the other? If not, why not?
Is a vitiated public taste always to be pan-
dered to, till the sense of what really 'is
great, and grand, and elevating, is lost sight
of, and lightness, and levity, and empty
nothingness, is held up as "splendid,"
"beautiful," exquisite," and a host of other
extreme adjectives, the sublime and the
grand being put down as passe, old-fash-
ioned, etc. Let such be told, there is an
Eternal Beauty that never grows old, an
eternal sublimity that nothing can destroy;
and in this beauty and this sublimity is
God! in whatever place it is exhibited, and
by whatever instrument it is exemplied.
	Wherever perfection in any way is at-
tained, there we can behold the finger of
God, and mark his footprints. The time is
approaching when every heart shall be
awakened to this Almighty Beauty that
will attract the heart and brain and intel-
lect; that has the power to soften the hard,
awaken the apathetic, arouse the intelligent,
till they shall become as Gods, and wield a
power that shall bend and break, and bring
all pliable by the soft and gentle hand of
the love and beauty of God.


COQUETRY.—Few women have the stami-
na to refuse an opportunity to flirt. No
woman will admit that she is a flirt, and
y[-]t how few can resign a chance to flirt
with an agreeable gentleman, when such a 
flirtation becomes an eligible indulgence!
There is always an excitement in the at-
tempt to capture a man's affections which
is too inspiring, perhaps, to be neglected;
but there' is an odium attached to the ex-
citement which no woman relishes. They
love the pursuit, but fear the character it
occasions. And the same remarks will ap-
ply to men as well as women; for what is
more contemptible than a male flirt? The
man who loves to win, merely for amuse-
ment, the affections of a woman, is no more
to be respected than the woman who is ad-
dicted to the game of captivating, for the
momentary pleasure it affords, the hearts
of men.


SENATOR Thurman, it is said, is probably
the most accomplished scholar now in Con-
gress.


108		THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3,00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 1, 18795.


[Column 1]
PRESIDENT HAYES AND A PART OF
HIS MESSAGE.

	His Excellency Pres. Hayes, in his annual
message, talks about the Mormons and "Po-
lygamy" in so decided a manner that he evi-
dently intends people to think he means what
he says (and it may be that he does), but in
our humble opinion, Pres. Hayes is too benefi-
cent and merciful a man to put into execution
a law that he knows will deprive hundreds of
women of the protection for themselves and
their children which they now enjoy, while he
holds the position of a father to the nation.
We do not believe him capable of so cruel and
wicked an act. Yet this is what he says in
reference to the subject:

    "THE SUPPRESSION OF POLYGAMY.

	"The continued deliberate violation by a
large number of the prominent and influential
citizens of the Territory of Utah of the laws of
the United States for the prosecution and pun-
ishment of polygamy, demands the attention
of every department of the government. This
Territory has a population sufficient to entitle
it to admission as a State, and the general in-
terest of the nation, as well as the welfare of
the citizens of the Territory, require its ad-
vance from a Territorial form of government to
the responsibilities and privileges of a State.
This important change will, however, (not) be
approved by the country while the citizens of
Utah, in a very considerable number, uphold a
practice which is condemned as a crime by the
laws of all civilized communities throughout
the world. The law for the suppression of this
offence was enacted with great unanimity by
Congress more than seventeen years ago, but
has remained until recently a dead letter in
the Territory of Utah, because of the peculiar
difficulties attending its enforement. The
opinion widely prevailed among the citizens of
Utah that the law was in contravention of the
Constitutional guarantee of religious freedom.
This objection is now removed. The Supreme
Court of the United States has decided the
law to be within the legislative power of Con-
gress, and binding, as a rule of action, for all
who resided within the territories. There is
no longer any reason for delay or hestitation in
its enforcement. It should be firmly and ef-
fectively executed. If not sufficiently strin-
gent in its provisions, it should be amended,
and, in aid of the purpose in view, I recom-
mend that more comprehensive and more
searching methods for preventing, as well as
punishing this crime be provided. If necessary
to secure obedience to the law, the enjoyment
and the exercise of the rights and privileges of
citizenship in the territories of the United
States may be withheld or withdrawn from

[Column 2]
those who violate or oppose the enforcement
of the law on this subject."

	All this sounds very well to those who are
using their influence to break up the homes of
the people who settled this desert land, and
encountering hardships and privations of every
name and nature almost, at last succeeded in
obtaining some of the rights and privileges of
citizens of a Republic.
	It may be that His Excellency would use
some stringent measures to prohibit plural mar-
riage in future, because monogamy is the es-
tablished custom of the country; but that a
man in his position will spread desolation and
devastation, and impover[-]sh a now prosperous
Territory belonging to the general government,
seems to us incredible. When such things are
done we shall believe "men are gone mad."
Besides, His Excellency has been duly in-
formed of the misery he would bring into the
now peaceful, happy homes of the people.
Separations that would indeed rend asunder
the very heart-strings of women and children.
	In our interview with Pres. Hayes last win-
ter, after making a verbal statement to His
Excellency of the condition of this people and
the desolation and misery which must neces-
sarily follow a rigid enforcement of the law of
1862, then just having been declared constitu-
tional by the decision of the Supreme Court,
His Excellency not only listened attentively
and feelingly to the recital, but remarked that
he had never looked upon the question in the
same light before, had never thought it would
involve so muoh sorrow and wretchedness, and
that it was altogether too important a matter to
trust to memory, and requested us to put what
we had said in writing, that he might give it
careful consideration and present it in that
form to his Cabinet.

	We do not believe him to be hard-hearted, or
unfeeling, but the continual howlings of those
who are seeking to destroy the peace and pros-
perity of the Latter-day Saints has had its ef-
fect upon the rulers of the country. We ear-
nestly and solemnly beseeched him, as the
Chief Executive of this great nation, and the
father of its people, to consider well the nature
of the persecution aroused against this people
by the ministers and women of the nation
whose petitions were pouring into Congress
from all quarters. We entreated him in the
name of "One who sees not as man sees," who
would not permit even a sparrow to fall to the
ground without his notice, to exert his influ-
ence to avert any harsh measures: that this
Territory, now abounding in contentment, and
plenty, might not be desolated and filled with
prisons for men, almshouses for children, and
asylums for women cruelly driven to insanity
We asked the question, What balm has Your
Excellency, or Congress, to offer for broken
hearts, or desolated hearths? What recom-
pense can you make these children for a fa-
ther's tender care? Can Congress appropriate
an unbounded supply of the milk of human
kindness to heal the wounds, or dry up the
fountains of woman's tears, when the strong-
est ties of love are rent asunder?

	We argued that it was impossible for His Ex-
cellency to comprehend the strength of the af-
fection which exists in Patriarchal Mormon fam-
lies—of husband and wives for each other, of the
father for all his children; and also, we would
most respectfully suggest that before you coun-
tenance any measures taken to destroy the
happiness and prosperity of the Mormon peo-
ple you would become familiar with the record
of the Latter-day Saints, and in judging them,
not only be guided and dictated by the highest
and finest sentiments of humanity; but with

[Column 3]
the reflection that upon the annals of this na-
tion will be engraven the record of your deci-
sion in a matter which involves the life, liberty
and happiness of many thousands of loyal
citizens of this Republic. It is impossible to
state, in so small a space, the arguments pre-
sented, or the pen picture drawn for His Ex-
cellency, of the disastrous effects which must
follow a decision such as has been urged by
the Anti-polygamy party. The Latter-day
Saints know to what terrible str[--]ts they would
be driven, if compelled to submit enmasse to
the rigid enforcement of any harsh measures,
such as are now being agitated. It is too hide-
ous a picture to contemplate, therefore we will
leave it for the present, knowing there is a God
who has said to his opposers in times past,
"Thus far shalt thou go and no farther."


CONGRESS seems to be well supplied with
bills, amendments and resolutions suggestive
of plans to deal with the Mormon question.
The people of this Territory may congratulate
themselves that Utah and her people is a very
popular subject in Congress this year.  Notices
of these bills came too late for us to discuss in
this number.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	By invitation of Bro. C. C. A. Christianson,
we had the pleasure of being present at the
exhibition of the "Mormon Panorama," in the
14th Ward Assembly Rooms, Monday evening,
Dec. 8.  This series of paintings were designed
and executed by Bro. C. himself, and are des-
criptive of some of the most thrilling events
in the history of the Latter-day Saints. The
pictures are very good, and are strikingly illus-
trative of the scenes represented.  Those who
are best acquainted with the subjects which
the paintings are designed to delineate, say
they are excellent in almost every particular,
and they certainly deserve the patronage of
the people through the Territory.  Children
will learn from these some of the pathetic epi
sodes through which this people have passed,
and the pictures will make a more powerful
and lasting impression upon them than the
mere recital, however eloquently or definitely
described.  Mormonism is rich with incidents
for the artist, the historian, the drama, and
it is a credit to Bro. C. to give the public the
benefit of his arduous, though perchance pleas-
ant labor.  We sincerely wish him every suc-
cess, and do not hesitate to recommend his
series of views; the production of home talent,
in whatever class of home work, it should be
the plea[-]ant duty of every Latter-day Sai[-]t to
encourage and sustain.
	MRS. Emily B. Spencer, of St. George, now
reading in the 14th Ward of this city, two
doors South of tho Valley House, at the resi-
dence of Wilford Woodruff, Jun., will give
twelve lessons in drawing, or painting in wa-
ter colors, for $2.50.  She is also well acquainted
with the best methods of arranging genealogi-
cal records ready for baptism of the dead, and
will fill up record books where the work has
been accomplished.  Mrs.  Spencer  has had
much experience in this kind of work.
	PREPARATIONS for the holidays are in order,
one would judge from the busy appearance of
the city generally.  The stores and shops are
undergoing the ornamenting and decorating
process, and every conceivable article of use,
ornament and luxury are presented to the pub-
ic in the best and most inviting style. The
windows of Z. C. M. I., and of Young and
Marks store, opposite, seem designed to rival


each other in elaborate ornamentation.  Every-
thing that is necessary for physical comfort
can be obtained on reasonable terms.  Jen-
nings and Teasdel are not behind in recom-
mending their goods, by displaying them in a
tasteful and artistic fashion, and altogether
the merchants, shopkeepers, milliners, bakers,
butchers, and other well-known tradespeople
are doing their utmost to assist in making the
holidays a success.
	JAMES Dwyer, Esq., the genial, brisk and
enterprising book merchant of Salt Lake City,
has an extensive and elegant stock of Christ-
mas and Holiday goods, suitable for all ages
and the great variety of tastes of different peo-
ple.  The dolls and dishes, of which the little
folks are so fond, are there in every size and
quality. Toys for girls, toys for boys, whips,
wagons, carts, horses, and all the numerous
paraphernalia of the nursery and play room,
can be obtained at "Dwyer's Store."  Books of
all kinds, history, poetry, romance, prose on all
subjects, and fairy tales.  Children's books,
edited by the best writers suitable for Christ-
mas and New Year's presents.  Looking over
the large and beautiful assortment, one could
not help thinking what havoc Santa Claus
would soon make in the establishment, for our
readers must know that Santa Claus revels in
places of this sort, and we trust that if Dwyer's
shelves are emptied by the many Santa Claus
his till will be correspondingly filled.
	THE Relief Society, You ng Ladies' and Pri-
mary Associations of this County will hold their
Annual Conference in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms Friday and Saturday, 19th and 20th of 
this present month.  Those interested in these
Associations a[-]e cordially invited.  Will Sec-
retaries please report immediately, and direct
to this office?
	MRS. M. I. Horne requests us to inform the
presidents and officers of Relief Societies that
they are desired to furnish second-hand cloth-
ing, or quilts, for the Lamanites, especially
the squaws.  The weather is very cold and
many are suffering for some cove[-]ing to protect
them.  In the coming Conference some definite
instruction will be given on this subject.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMEN'S MEETINGS.

	SISTERS Eliza R. Snow and Jane S. Richards
have been making a tour through Weber Co.,
holding meetings in the different se[--]lements.
Tuesday, Dec. 4, at North Ogden;  Wednesday
the appointments were not filled, on account
of the bad state of the roads.  Thursday after-
noon the City Hall in Ogden was actually
packed with sisters and a few brethren.  Fri-
day they visited Slaterville, and held meetings
there; Saturday went to Plain City, Sunday
afternoon in Riverdale,, Monday at Huntsville,
Tuesday in Eden.  The sisters' Conference in
that Stake of Zion will be held on the 18th and
19th of this month.  The sisters who travel in
the interest of the organizations of women and
the Primaries are doing effective work, and are
a powerful lever for good.
	SISTERS S. M. Kimball and S. M. Heywood
attended  the  sisters'  Conference  of  Tooele
Stake, which was held Friday and Saturday
in Grantsville.
	The Box  Elder  Stake  Conference  of Relief
Society, Young Ladies' and Primary  Associa-
tions was held in Brigham City on the 9th and
10th of this month! We acknowledge our
thanks for the kind invitation extended us to
attend these Conferences,  and  should  cer-
tainly have accepted, if circumstances had not
prevented, It is very pleasant to be remem-
bered by one's friends.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, in the 9th Ward of this city, October
18, 1879, of congestion of the lungs and brain,
Ann Earl Snedaker, wife of Morris Snedaker,
and daughter of Jesse and Janette Earl, born
in Senaca, Ontario Co., New York, Feb. 22,
1818.  In 1839, deceased moved to Kalamazoo,
Mich., where, in 1842, she became a member
of the Church.  In 1847 she emigrated to Utah;
driving an ox team the entire route.  Since
her connection with the Church, Sister Sned-
aker has passed through many severe trials,
but has ever manifested a devotion to the re-
ligious cause which she espoused, sacrificing,
when necessary, all personal interests to com-
ply with the requirements of the Gospel.  She
has taken an active part in the Relief Society
of the ward from its organization in '68, and
during the last five years of her life has acted
as Superintendent of the Young Ladies' A[-]so-
ciation. which position she filled with dignity,
gaining, by her good teachings, kind and ex-
emplary conduct, the love and esteem of the
members of the Association.  Her kindness to
the sick and indigent won for her many friends,
in whose hearts the memory of Sister Snedaker
will never die.  In fact, she was a true Latter-
day Saint, a friend to God and humanity.
								E. W.


HON. A. P. ROCKWOOD DEAD.

	Elder Albert P. Rockwood, one of the First
Seven Prresid[-]nts of the Seventies, of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
departed this life at 4:35 A. M., Nov. 26, at his
residence,  Sugar  House Ward.  His ailment
was a disease of the lungs, from which he had
been confined to his bed for the past three
weeks.  He was born June 5, 1805, in Hollis-
ton, Mass ; joined the Church in 1833, went
through the persecutions endured in Missouri
and elsewhere, and was steadfast and foremost
in every good work.  He was one of the pio-
neers of Utah in 1847, and since then has been
a prominent member of the Church and a man
of integrity, position and influence in the com-
munity.  He served in the first Legislature of
Utah, has been a member of the same body
ever since, and was elected for the approaching
session, this winter.  He was the pioneer fish
commissioner of the Territory also, and one of
the directors  of the  Deseret Agricultural and
Manufacturing Society. In fact, through al-
his career, he has held high  and  responsible
positions with honor to himself and benefit to
the community in which he has so long resid-
ed,  A good man has gone to rest after  a  long
lif[-]  of  usefulness.  He died peacefully, sur-
rounded  by  his  family and friends, and pre-
vious to his  death, shook hands with and bade
them all good bye.  We sincerely sympathize
with the bereaved family in their heavy loss.—
Deseret News.
	Elder Rockwood's funeral services were held
in the 12th Ward  Assembly Rooms, near his
former resident, on  Saturday, Nov. 29,  at 1
o'clock P. M,, and were numerously  attended.
Many testimonies were given, by the brethren
who spoke, of his blameless life, his solid wo[-]th
as a pioneer, as an  enterprising citizen, and as
a Christian.
	Brother Rockwood was a positve and un-
flinching friend to the cause of woman suffrage
and to woman's advancement generally; and
by his death the women of this Territory have
lost one of the strongest advocates on all ques-
tions relating to their interests.  "It is devoutly
to be hoped" that the Member who shall be
elected to fill the position in the Legislative
Body occupied by the Honorable Member de-


parted, may be not only as good a man in all
generalities, but that he may be as strong on
the question of equal rights and privileges, re-
gardless of sex.


DEATH OF ELDER CLAYTON.

	Elder William Clayton, an old and respected
citizen of Salt Lake, and a [--]an well and
widely known among the Latter-day Saints,
with whose early history his own career is
closely associated, died suddenly this afternoon,
at 20 minutes to 1 o'clok, while he was in the
act of partaking of his dinner. About five
minutes previous, he was conversing with his
aged friend and neighbor, Dr. J. M. Bernhisel.
For several months the deceased had been suf-
fering from an attack of dropsy. Yesterday he
was reported about the same, and although his
condition was not so promising as it had been,
it was not supposed that his end was so near.
Brother Clayton was a native of England, and
was born July 17, 1814. He embraced the Gos-
pel at an early day, and was an intimate asso-
ciote and a tried and trusted friend of the Pro-
phet Joseph, to whom, for many years, up to
the time of the latter's martyrdom, he acted
as private Secretary. While in this capacity,
he transcribed the revelation on Celestial Mar-
riage, and many others, under the Prophet's
dictation and direction. From that day to this
he has been with the Church, and held various
offices of public trust and responsibility in the
community. He was for several years treasur-
er of Z. C. M. I., for many years Territorial
Recorder of marks and brands, and up to a few
months ago, when he resigned his office on ac-
count of sickness, Territorial Auditor of Public
Accounts. He was a man of sterling integrity,
remarkable ability, a faithful Latter-day Saint,
and a good and useful citizen, whose death,
though a happy relief from his sufferings, will
be felt deeply by hosts of personal friends. We
extend our sincere condolence to the bereaved
family in this, their hour of affliction.—D[-]seret
News, Dec. 4.

	The Funeral Services of Elder Clayton were
held in the 17th Ward Assembly Rooms Sun-
day morning, Dec. 7. There was a very crowd-
ed house, and hundreds of people were outside
who could not obtain standing room. Elder
Joseph F. Smith made the opening address, and
commenced by reading an affidavit signed and
authenticated by the deceased in regard to his
connection with transcribing the revelation on
Plural Marriage. Interesting and consoling
remarks were made by Judge Elias Smith,
Coun. D. H. Wells and President John Taylor.
	The hymn composed by Bro. Clayton, called
"The Res[-]rrection Hymn," was pathetically
sung by the choir, the congregation joining
them, making it all the more solemn and af-
fecting. "Peace to his ashes." He has gone
to meet his beloved friend Joseph, and there is
no doubt, a happy re-union and rejoicing with
them.


REV. ANNA OLIVER, pastor of a church
in Brooklyn, N. Y. is doing a good work
among her people in public and private.
The church is increasing in numbers despite
opposition and difficulties. She recently
preached a fine sermon from the text, "He
answered nothing," showing the dignity
and beauty of self-control. Her sermons
are eminently practical, and delivered with
grace and power.—Woman's Journsl.

	GREAT thoughts originate from a large
heart.—F. W. Robertson.


110		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

		NEPHI JUAB Co.
	The Quarterly conference of the Juab
county Stake organization of the Relief
Society was held in the Nephi Tabernacle
on the 17th, of Oct. 1879, commencing at
10 A.M. On the stand were the officers of
the Stake, and some of the branch officers;
also the officers from Levan and Mona.
Of the brethren on the stand were Pres.
Teasdale, Counselor K. H. Brown, Bishop
Sperry, Patriarch J. G. Bigler and Bro.
George Kendall. After the usual opening
exercises, Pres. Goldsbrough made a few
very appropriate remarks, said she with
some of her sisters had visited Levan, and
Mona, several times since the last quarterly
conference, and, had tried to discharge her
duty in counseling and advising the sisters
to the best of her ability, in every good
word and work, exhorting them to per-
severe in promoting practically the cul-
ture of silk and in the establshing and 
carrying on every branch of home industry
that came with in their reach, that we might
become self sustaining and independent:
and to be diligent in STORING GRAIN. Plead
with the sisters to be united and to sustain,
uphold and defend each other's characters
that the evil one might have no power
over us.
	The rest of the forenoon was nearly all
occupied with reading reports from the
Stake and branches, also the Young Ladies
and Primary Associations, which were very
encouraging. The afternoon was devoted
to remarks from the brethren and sisters,
which were calculated to encourage and
instruct all that have a desire to see the
work of God roll on.
	Our financial condition is not so prosper-
ous as we would wish, but, we are trying to
do the best we can. We have a granary
nearly done, so near that we are storing
grain in it.
	The Choir sang "Glory to God on High".
Benediction by Patriarch J. G. Bigler.
				A. L. BIGLER. Sec.

SUMMIT STAKE.

	On Friday, Oct. 31, 1879, the Third Semi-
<the -work="" of="" god="" roll="" on="" :="" ;="" -i?="" -="" roi="" qur="" financial="" condition="" is="" not="" so-jprospor-="" ous.="" as;wd="" .would="" wub,="" butpw.e="" are="" trying;to="" tldmhe,best="" wo="" can.="" we="" have...="" a="" grapapy="" r;nearly="" donp,="" go.="" near="" ,thpt="" .w.q="" re="" storing="" i="" grain="" in,ip.="" .="" ...="" ..="" kvthe="" choir="" sang="" “glory,to="" god.on="" high'.="" benediction="" by="" patriarch="" .-j="" &.="" bigler.="" ,="" a.="" t.="" bxaxisaif="" beo.-="" titomfriday,="" och="" 311879,the="" third="" semi-="" i-annuav="" conference="" of:="" the="" relief="" society="" #:ofjsummitstake="" .of-="" zion="" was="" held="" -in;="" i®me.etf.ng="" .hojjsq..,at-colville.="" pres.="" sarah="" ns="" richards:qnd,<="">Annual, Conference of the Relief Society
of Summit Stake of Zion was held in the
Meeting House at Coalville. Pres. Sarah
S. Richards and other officers of the organ-
ization were on the stand, as also Pres.
Eliza R. Snow and Mrs. E. Howard of Salt
Lake City, Mrs. Lydia Rich of Morgan
Stake, and a majority of the presidents of 
the Ward Societies; Pres. Wm. W. Cluff of
Summit Stake, Bishop Salmon of Coalville,
Bishop Roundy of Wanship, and other
Stake officers. The Conference was opened
with the usual exercises. The Statistical
and Financial reports of the various 
branches of the stake, except Coalville,
Parley's Park and Upton were read by the
Secretary. The present Stake organization
consists of thirteen branches, viz.: Coal-
ville, Henneferville, Echo, Hoytsville, Wan-
ship, Rockport, Peoa, Kamas, Morrell,
Almy, Evanston, Parley's Park and Upton;
all of which, except three, were represented
verbally. They were reported as being gen-
erally in improving conditions. The Almy
and Fvanston branches being some distance
from this place, it is not always convenient
for the officers to attend all of our confer-
ences.
	Pres. E. R. Snow addressed the meeting.
She spoke at length upon the duties of par-
ents to their children, and referred to the
too frequent neglect of the rising genera-
tion, in not bringing them up in habits of 
care, thrift and industry. If we wish the

[Column 2]
generatien that succeeds us to be better,
wiser and more intelligent than the present
one, we must commence in earnest, educate
our children intelligently, inculcate true
and correct principles into their minds,
teach them to be wise and good, and to as-
sist them in qualifying themselves for the
duties that will in the future be required of
them.
	Afternoon session: Mrs. M. J. Brim, Sec-
retary of the Y. L. M. I. A. for the Stake,
read reports from some of the branch asso-
ciations. Mrs. Eliza Rhead, Pres. of the
Stake Association, expressed her regret
that they had not more complete reports to
present to the Conference. Mrs. M. J.
Brim, President of the Primary Associa-
tion, reported very favorably of its condi-
tion. Mrs. Rich of Morgan, Mrs. M. W.
Reynolds, Counselor and Mrs. E. Howard,
each occupied a short time in speaking upon
subjects of interest.
	Pres. E. R. Snow again occupied a few
moments.
	Pres. Wm. W. Cluff spoke encouragingly
of the labors of the societies, and referred
briefly to the necessity of having the re-
ports made out punctually and correctly.
The Conference adjourned to the last Fri-
day in April 1880.
	On Saturday a meeting of the Primary
Association was held, Sisters Snow, How-
ard, Rich and others were present. The
meeting was particularly interesting, the
questions put to the little ones being an-
swered in a very intelligent manner, and
gratifying to those concerned.
			SARAH S. RICHARDS, Pres.
			JESSIE S. BOYDEN, Sec'y.

MORGAN STAKE.

	The Fifth Quarterly Conference of the R.
S. was held at Morgan City, Friday and
Saturday, Oct. 24 and 25, 1879, Pres. Lydia
Rich and Counselors presiding. On the
stand were Mrs. S. A. Rawl, President of
the Y. L. Association of Morgan Co., also
our much loved Pres. Eliza R. Snow from
Salt Lake City, Pres. W. G. Smith and sev-
eral bishops and a number of the presidents
of Relief Societies. Opened with the usual
exercises. Mrs. Sarah A. Rawl read the
minutes of the previous Conference, also
Statistical and Financial reports of the va-
rious branches, and a condensed report of
the Stake, which were accepted.
	Pres. E. R. Snow occupied most of the
time in excellent instructions. She spoke
of the necessity of having Primary Asso-
ciations in all our wards, that we might
take our little ones while they are pure and
uncontaminated with evil, and implant
within their hearts the pure principles of
the Gospel. She thought it necessary that
the very best talent in our midst should be
employed to preside over the Primary As-
sociations—those who love children and
have the faculty of drawing them to them;
said that theirs were bright spirits that had
been held in reserve to come forth in this
day for a wise purpose, and all they want is
properly directing, and it is astonishing to
see the progress they will make.
	Mrs. Harriet Welsh then addressed the
meeting for a short time, also Mrs. Jane
Toomer, who bore testimony to the power
of God recently made manifest in her be-
half, wherein she received her sense of
hearing after being deprived of it a number
of weeks. She testified that the gifts and
blessings of the gospel enjoyed by the
former-day Saints were for us if we would
only live for them.
	Pres. Smith then addressed the meeting,

[Column 3]
expressing a warm interest in the labors of
the sisters.

	Afternoon sessson: After singing and
prayer, the presidents verbally represented
the societies over which they preside—Mrs.
Emma Croft of Enterprise, Mrs. Fannie
Taggart of Richville, Mrs. Harriet Spend-
love of Milton, Mrs. S. A. Porter of East
Porterville, Mrs. Sarah Florence of West
Porterville, Mrs. E. Worlton of North Mor-
gan, Mrs. Louisa Carrigan, Counselor at
Weber City, Mrs. M. A. Simmonds, Coun-
selor at South Morgan, and Mrs. Wagstaff,
Teacher at Croyden.
	Pres. Lydia Rich spoke earnestly upon
charity and a consistent life. She gave
some good instruction to the young, and
said that there was a great deal expected of
them, as they had been born heirs to the
priesthood and are being raised under the
influence of the Gospel. She thought that
parents should have a particular care over
their children while they were young, and
endeavor to instil into their minds pure
principles in the first place—teach them to
be scrupulously honest, then there is a firm
foundation upon which character can be
built. She spoke upon the duty of the sis-
ters settling their own difficulties. She
recommended the Relief Societies and the
Young Ladies' Associations to unite for the
purpose of establishing libraries in the sev-
eral societies.

	A few remarks were made by Sister Ann
Fry and Bishop Toomer. Conference ad-
journed untill Saturday morning at 10 A. M.

	Saturday morning session: Mrs. S. A.
Rawl, President of the Young Ladies! As-
sociation presided. After usual opening
exercises, there were reports read from
some of the Young Ladies' Associations,
also some of the presidents verbally repre-
sented their associations, after which Pres.
Rawl made some very appropriate remarks.
There were remarks made by several sisters
and also some of the brethren. A request
was then made that all the children of South
Morgan Ward assemble punctually at 2 P.
M., when they would be organized into a
Primary Association. Meeting then ad-
journed until 2 P. M.

	Afternoon Session: Punctually at the
time appointed the seats that had been re-
served for the little ones were filled with
rosy-cheeked, smiling children, whose
bright, sparkling eyes betokened their in-
terest in what was to be their own meeting.
Sister Snow then asked them a number
of questions, answering the same for them
to their understanding. Sister Harriet
Welsh was elected President, and Sisters
M. A. Fry and Janette Hogg, Counselors.

	The time occupied in the children's meet-
ing was over an hour, and they were greatly
interested and very quiet; they were then
dismissed.

	Pres. Rich then made a few remarks.
Elder Samuel Francis also made some very
encouraging remarks, after which the offic-
ers were set apart to preside over the Cen-
tral Board of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Morgan
Co.; Mrs. Jane Toomer, President, Mrs.
Jane Crouch and Mrs. Nina M. Porter,
Counselors. Conference then adjourned
for three months.
			H. CORDELIA SMITH, Sec'y.


A SENATOR in a recent speech, said:
"More than six times as many women as
men are teachers, and those in our high
schools are highly qualified to teach young
men about the civil policy of this common-
wealth and of the United States."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CHRISTMAS AGAIN.
 Joy, Peace and Good-will to all, these are
the 'Christmas Tidings'. The message the
blessed Savior brought “Behold I bring you
good tidings of great joy which shall be to
all people.” Year after year, generation
after generation, the time honored custom
of commemorating the birth of the infant
Jesus, in that way peculiar to the different
varieties of people and their ideas of his
divine mission, has prevailed all over the
civilized world, until it is looked forward to
as an established fact, that on that eventful
day something good, some real blessing
must came to all.  Families and friends
unite in making the time one of festive
recreation and social enjoyment.  Little
children have been taught from the time
they could lisp to say “A merry Christmas”
and look forward to the day as one fuller of
happiness than any other in all the year.
One of the simplest methods of pleasing the
little folks is that of hanging up the stock-
ing, which they expect will be filled with
“goodies” and precious gifts from “Santa
Claus" or those who love them best.  And
the little ones delight scarcely overbalances
that of the mother.
	How many blessed mothers, all over our
broad, fair land dwell with eager expecta-
tion upon the pleasure Christmas will bring
to the happy household; and sad indeed is
the mother,s  heart  when  in  anticipation
of the  once joyful Christmas,  there  is  one
vacant place, one little empty stocking laid
carefully away in the drawer, with many
other precious mementoes of  a  loved  one,
things she dare not look upon lest the scald-
ing tears burst from their hidden fountains,
and drown in the  depths of  grief,  all  the
joyousness of those who still remain.  Alas,
for the tender mothers whose aching hearts,
brood, unwillingly perhaps, over the absent
ones who, like “Rachel’s babes are not.”
But remember the Christmas Tidings joy
and good-will and peace to all, and of your
abundance if with such God hath blessed
you, minister to the poor and the needy.
Make glad the heart of some other  mother,
and your own home will be blessed.
	There are many little ones, who have not 
the delicacies and luxuries yours may have,
that you may cheer and gladden: and many
a poor orphan, who longs for love and for 
tender words, on such bestow sweet smiles,
your gentle words and charities “The
poor ye have with you always," precious
words speaking to the poor, human heart
reminding it of duties that bring peace and
a blessed reward.  How many beautiful
things our good Savior  said for the poor.
Christmas then should indeed be fitting
time for sweet charity.
	There are many aged people, traveling
the down-hill of life who are fit subjects for
Christmas Gifts.  Yes, many care-worn and
sad, whom Dame Fortune has never smiled
upon, or has now forsaken, who have less
gladness than even the little ones of the
poor; for children though poor and ragged
and dirty seem always to carry with them a
sort of magnetic charm, that belongs speci-
ally to childhood and touches with a melt-
ing tenderness the hardest heart.  It carries
one back in remembrance to their own help-
less years, it speaks in a language unmis-
takable of the mother, the home, the hap-
piness of the past  and calls out  in  strong
swelling currents  the true  affections.  But
with the aged there is another kind of feel-
ing, which does not involve so  many  pleas-
ant  reminiscences.  All the more do they
need sympathy when  they are  poor and
unfortunate, their hopes  in  life  crushed,
and no brave strong arm to lean upon, only
God and the living faith in his holy Gospel,
and wanting this thay  are  poor  indeed.
Oh, ye whose lives have been cast in pleas-
ant places, whose homes teem with plenty,
remember the aged poor whose footsteps
grow more feeble as they  near that haven
of rest, where all sorrows are wiped away;
and ere this Christmas comes let your boun-
ties be dispensed to the desolate ones; greet
them with kindnesses and comforts; cheer
some lonely heart, and in blessing ye will
be truly blessed, for the promises of Christ
never fail.
	Ho, for the merry Christmas with all its
gay festivities and pastimes. Gather the
beautiful, the bright and the picturesque
of all kinds, to gladden the home and cheer
the inmates on this day of days.  Let  the
house resound with childrens’ fresh, young
voices in gladsome sport and hesitate not to
join them, but be sure you have truly made
light some gloomy hearthstone, carried a
welcome offering to some of the many who
need attention.  The custom of decorating
with evergreens and scarlet flowers or ber-
ries is pretty and really should be encour-
aged.  It is beautiful to see the rooms hung
with festoons of running vines, fresh and
green, or if they are  not available, boughs
of pine, or cedar and ornamented with such
real,  or artificial trimmings as  can  be  pro-
ocured.  Autumn  leaves  carefully  pressed
and arranged help to make an  artistic and
charming finish, and all these things  assist
the cultivation of refinement in the  human
heart.  Winter flowers how  they  speak to
us in their silent language when all without
is bleak and cold.
	Christmas is coming: let us not only pre-
pare our homes, but our hearts  for the fes-
tive occasion: and while we  ornament our
rooms and our tables, and polish and garnish
and decorate, let us  look  into  our  own
hearts and see to it, that we root out selfish-
ness and envy and jealousy and substitute
grace and gentleness and the charity which
thinketh no evil; that all may be in harmony
and the angels of the Holy presence sit with
us at our feasts, and no unclean thing enter
into our abodes to destroy our peace of
mind, that we may have no regrets for the 
day.
AUNT EM.


EMIGRATION FOR FEMALE PRIS-
				ONERS.

To the Editor of the "Daily News:
 Sir--Will you allow me to appeal to a
philanthropic public through the medium
of your journal?  We have in this prison a
great number of women who, when  they
are discharged, will have neither character,
money, employment, friends, nor home to
fall back upon, and who, either from their
repeated convictions, the nature of their
offences, or from the fact, perhaps, of their
being deserted wives, are not eligible for
the ordinary Homes and Refuges which
abound in the metropolis and elsewhere.
Of course, they have in most cases brought
themselves to their present forlorn condi-
tion, and are paying the penalty due to
their follow; but, at the same time, it is a
fact that many of them would be only  too
glad to reform their lives if they had the
means, or help was extended to them, so to
do. When they leave these walls,  the
workhouses for  many[-]reasons not being de-
sirable, and the Homes not being available,
they have no alternative  but  to  wander
about the streets, and before the day is past
to fall once more into  the hands of  the po-
lice.  Being hungry and penniless and with-
out resources, the kindly meant invitation,


"Have a drink, missus?" is more than they
can withstand, and with their empty stom-
achs they speedily become intoxicated, and
on the morrow, in the language of the po-
lice courts, are termed "incorrigible drunk-
ards."  Daily such cases as these appeal to
me in heartrending terms  to  give  them
work, to remove  them thus from their old
haunts and associates, to send them abroad,
or in some way to give them an opportunity
of doing better; and though, through the
instrumentality of many reformatory socie-
ties, I have been able to help during the
past year several hundreds of discharged
prisoners, yet for these poor creatures, I am
sorry to say, there has been but little assist-
ance forthcoming.  They are mostly strong
and healthy  young women, who, judging
from their behavior whilst in prison, would
in many instances make good charwomen,
laundresses and domestic servants.  As
there is an "embarras de richesse" of wo-
men in England, I cannot hope to obtain
employment for them here; and it is, un-
fortunately, a difficult matter for women
even of good character to earn their living,
and the difficulty is almost insurmountable
for those without friends or reputation to
aid them.  In the colonies, however, the
sex is not fairly ropresented, and there is
consequently a great demand for female la-
bor of all kinds.  My object in writing this
letter is to ask some of your readers to help
me to establish  an  emigration  fund, by
means of which three women of this class,
aged respectively, 27, 29, and 32, may have
an opportunity in another land, and amid
new associations, or recovering their char-
acter and regaining their lost positions. I
may add that the experiment has been tried
in two cases, and has succeeded beyond all
expectation.--I have the henor to  be,  Sir,
your obedient servant, G. P. Merrick, Chap-
lain, H. M. Prison, Westminster, S. W.,
October 21.--English Woman's Review.


ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY.

SOME OF HIS VIEWS ABOUT WOMEN.

	His Grace the Archbishop of Canterbury
felt it necessary, last Thur[-]day, to make a
sort of apology for learned ladies. The
Primate was engaged in presenting the
prizes gained by successful candidates in
certain Metropolitan districts of the last
Oxford Local Examination; and one would
have thought that the very place where he
was speaking, namely, the theatre of the
University of London, would have rendered
it almost unnecessary for the Archbishop to
go over the old time-honored defences of
learning for ladies. Since Sidney Smith
wrote his famous paper on "Female Educa-
tion" a good many things have happened;
and it is really not so much in the way of
an educational as of a social subject that the
matter has now to be treated. The educa-
tional difficulty has been satisfactorily
solved by the universities. These have
leavened the schools, both public and pri-
vate; and now it only remains to record the
verdict of popular opinion. What has be-
come of the old prejudice against so-called
blue stockings? Like other prejudices it
dies hard, of course; but is so nearly de-
funct that the Archbishop had not to hit
very fiercely last Thursday to insure its e[-]-
tire d[-]molition, so far as his trenchant
words might reach. Some obtuse people
will, of course, remain unconvinced; but
these do not count. The pres[-]nce of those
little girls among the junior, and the bigger
girls among the senior prize-takers forms a
very complete answer to the old senseless


notion that girls are inferior to boys in in-
tellectual matters. They also show that the
equality has been recognized. The clear
stage and no favor have been granted, and
there is the result. Girls and boys stand
on the same class list; and learned ladies
have to be accepted as realities. Why not?
That was what the Archbishop wanted to
know—why not? For the last nine years
the experiment of admitting girls to these
examinations has been tried and found to
answer admirably. The Archbishop was
loud in his praise of this equality. Then
he began his aggressive work. He was
afraid, he said, that some prejudice still ex-
isted in the country against learned ladies;
but the sooner that prejudice was overcome
the better. Some people, said the Primate,
still held the notion that learned women
were not feminine. His own experience,
he added, was that some of the most igno-
rant women were the least feminine of
those with whom he was acquainted. We
can well believe that his Grace was here
thinking of one whose many talents and
acquirements formed the subject of that
pleasant book to which we recently advert-
ed, and that his happy association with her
had enabled him to speak as he did to those
girls some words of encouragement in their
intellectual pursuits. It was, he said, of
great importance that a proper direction
should be given to the studies of young
girls at that period of life when they
passed out of the schoolroom. That has
been done; and the Archbishop's apprecia-
tion of the fact was hearty. But in one
particular we are inclined to think be un-
derrates the steps that have been gained.
Passing on from intellectual to physical
education, he said that it was a pleasant
sight to see boys and young men at cricket
and football in Battersea Park and in other
open places on summer evenings; but he
was afraid we had scarcely arrived at a suf-
ficiently high degree of civilization to pro-
vide suitable and healthy recreation for
female candidates. Is this so? We cer-
tainly do not find ladies joining cricket or
football clubs; nor is it desirable that they
should do so. But surely croquet and lawn-
tennis mark something like epochs in the
history of outdoor recreation for ladies.
We remember when a certain feeble game
called "La Grace," which consisted of catch-
ing a hoop on two sticks, proved really the
only available exercise for girls; and when
school calisthenics turned out very limp
young ladies indeed. Now, the different
gymnasiums and swimming baths have set
times for ladies; drilling takes place in
nearly all schools; and altogether we do 
not believe we are so far behind in these
matters as the Archbishop of Canterbury
appears to suppose. In fact, we shall begin
to think soon that we have attained a pretty
satisfactory condition of equality in almost
all respects.—Sussex Daily Times.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DISCOVERY  OF  ANCIENT  ORNA-
MENTS.

 Writing f[-]om St. Petersburg, a correspond-
ent remarks.  The Chersonesus appears still
to be rich  in  antiquities,  notwithstanding
the explorations and plunderings that have
taken place by Huns, Tartars,  and Cossacks
during hundreds of years.  In this city the
Hermitage contains a very  interesting and
valuable collection of costly  relics, many of
them in gold, beautiful specimens  of  Greek
art, found in some of  the  tombs  in the
neighbourhood of  Kertch.  Among the
choicest are the laurel  leaves  of the  finest
gold which adorned the victor's brow, with


other objects carrying the observer back to
the every-day life of the period. In the
tomb of a woman were found the very box
of vermillion and the stencil with which the
owner added to her charms some 2,000
years ago, her household gods" buried with
her, and now unburied, shewing that the
customs of the fair sex 20 centuries past
wereidentical with modern times in the
matter of outward adornments. From an
account published in the Journal de St.
Petersburg, it appears that valuable trea-
sures are yet to be obtained in this rich
field of antiquities, as will be seen from
the details of every costly gold ornaments
that have just been discovered by the for-
tunate director of the Kertch Museum. He
found, in the early part of September, near
the road between Temruk and the station
of Sennaia, a tomb of the third century,
before the Christian era, in the reign of
Persidas IL (?), King of the Bosphorus.
The tomb must have been that of a highly—
born damsel. It was found to contain a
gold collar of the thickness of an ordinary
lead pencil in one piece, ornamented with a
lion's head at each end; a gold crown, an
inch wide, the outer part formed of rings
linked together and ornament with fine
stones, in the center is a swan, with Cupid
on its wings' gold earrings with two pome-
granates; a very heavy chain; earrings of
very fine workmanship; two bracelets of
very heavy work; a round gold brooch and
pin representing Venus holding Cupid in
her arms; four gold leaves; a pearl collar
with clasp; amulets; three very small gold
rings; a silver flagon; a silver lachrymatory;
a silver vase; cup; silver spoon; remains of
silver articles; and a tooth of the young girl.
—Susex Daily Times.


MISS FRANCIS E. WILLARD was chosen
president of the National Women's Christian
Temperance Union, at the last annual meet-
ing in Indianapolis. Mrs. Annie Witten-
meyer, the retiring president, was made an
honorary member.

	MISS YOCUM, a school-teacher of Kittitas
Valley, Oregon, has taken up a land-claim
fenced it, built a house and this year raised
612 bushels of grain, besides teaching her
school. She says she does not mean to
marry until she can support a husband.

	MISS MARY EMORY, of Bellefontaine, O.,
last election day went out with her own
horse and wagon, and drove Republican
voters to the polls. A number of young Re-
publicans manifested their appreciation of
her services by presenting her with a hand-
some toilet set in the evening.


[Column 1]
HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE.
IF not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and without any noise and confu-
sion, although the rate of speed is very high. Its self-
setting and self-threading shuttle, and absence of springs
and cogs renders it both simple and durable. Be sure to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend.
Victor Sewing Machine Co., Chicago, Ill.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[--] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

[Column 2]
DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR 
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
[image of a hand pointing towards text] Orders from the country promptly responped to. [mirrored image of hand pointing towards text] 
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	Has opened her Medical Class at her residence in the 
13th Ward, two blocks and a half east of the Post Office
south side of the street, nearly opposite the Presbyterian
Church.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of 
women.

NEW HOME-MADE GOODS,
For Sale at the Old Constitution Building,
Salt Lake City.
Plain Centre Shawls, Fine Grey, Red and White Yarn,
Plain Grey Flannel, Check Waterproof, Mottled Blankets,
Shoulder Shawls, Red Twilled Flannel. F[-]ne White [-]lan-
nel. Etc. Making our Stock of Woolen Goods Com-
plete.
		MINNIE HORN, Clerk.

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes. Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

	Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing 
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special departments for Gent's Clothing
and Carpets, Ladies and Children's Shoes,
Dry Goods, Shawls and Domestics,
Groceries, Hardware and Stoves.

DRIED FRUITS of all CLASES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.
		Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
		JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.    97 Kimball Block.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of 
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of 
Women, and 
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN 
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS. WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers Wall Paper
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake Ci


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

