VOL. 8.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1879.		No. 13.


For the EXPONENT.
THREE EVENING SHADOWS.

Creeping down, creeping down,
Shadows with a golden crown;
Shadows in the valley lying,
Gold upon the mountain dying;
Creeping down, gently down,
Shadows grey, with golden crown.

'Tis thus the shades of evenin fall
In youth; when Trustfulness o'er all
A tender beauty throws;
Holding without its trembling veil,
Dark hours that droop, with sorrow pale,
With tears, vain hopes, and woes.

Falling down, falling down,
Shadows with a sable crown;
Shadows on the heart and valley,
Clouds on the hills in blackness rally,
Falling down. dimly down,
Shadows deep, with death-dark crown.

Thus, when the veil is rent apart,
And trouble gathers round the heart,
And the pale hours press on;
Each with its weary weight of pain,
Till doubt and anguish cloud the brain,
And trust and peace are gone.

Falling down, gently down,
Shadows with a snowy crown;
Trembling hands are weaving now,
Flowers pale for painless brow.
Shadows 'round death's solemn bier,
Rest to the heart so troubled here.
Thus, when the ills of life are past,
And that far shore is won at last,
Where shadows never fall;
And many are the eyes that weep,
Watching across life's stormy deep,
Waiting the Angel's call.

	MILLICENT.


[Column 1]
For the EXPONENT.
REFLECTIONS.

	October has come and gone, November is
almost past, and snow has already fallen.
Autumn has put on and off her gorgeous
yellow dress, and the leaves are falling fast.
All nature looks as if life was extinct. O
how melancholy! The dreary north winds
are blowing hard. Old Winter is just at
hand; how sad the thought! how I wish it
would not come at all, for I take no pleasure
in cold, snowy winter; but while I sit in
my little home in the tops of the moun-
tains, rather lonely, and amuse myself with
the surrounding scenery, foremost among
which are the tall gigantic mountains,
crowned with snowy caps, it causes many
reflections upon the past, present and fu-
ture. I think of the horse and cow and
other animals that God has made for the
use of man, that range over the hills and
in the valleys, now full of life, and fresh
with vigor, in a short time, when winter
spreads his cold mantle of snow and frost
over the earth, they will be pinched with
cold and perhaps hunger, and will need
shelter and protection. Do we remember
these dumb animals, and make them as 
comfortable as we ought?
	I am something like the wild goose—
when winter comes I feel I would like to
pass into a more genial clime, and my mind
reverts to the happy home of my child-
hood, away in the past, the sunny South,
where I was encircled with dear ones that
have long since faded away and gone where
the weary cease from troubling and are at

[Column 2]
rest. I think of the many pleasant hours
spent in that genial, warm clime, where
the snow scarce ever falls, but gentle show-
ers of rain moisten the earth; no frost in
the ground, and evergreen the year round.
Where the whippoorwill and nightingale
sing their happiest notes, and the pome-
granate and honeysuckle bloom beautifully
and shed their sweet fragrance. Where all
kinds of mellow and delicious fruits, wild
and cultivated, abound—banannas and all
varieties of grapes. Many different kinds
of nuts to gather in the autumn, for pleas-
ant recreation to lay up for use and enter-
tainment for the long, mild winter evenings,
when we rested from the day's labors to
while away a few delightful hours.
	It was there, my dear, kind readers, in
that charming country, the home of my
childhood, that I heard the sound of the
Gospel, and forsook home, parents, kindred
and friends, and all the sweet associations
of social life, that I might be one with this
people. It was in 1844 when I first heard
the sound of the everlasting Gospel; the
proclamation penetrated to the very depths
of my heart. I listened to the sound with
pleasure and happiness beyond expression;
I embraced it and felt that I had come out
of darkness into marvelous light and liberty.
I counted the cost and laid my earthly all
upon the altar.  I was determined to be a
Saint, and I left all but my kind husband
and an orphan child, a little girl, and went
to Nauvoo. We arrived there in Septem-
ber, 1845, remained there until May, 1846;
then started across those wide prairies,
through mud and rain, for Winter Quarters.
In May, 1850, we commenced our journey
again, still stretching farther towards the
Rocky Mountains, finally resting in the
great basin of the Salt Lake Valley, and I
am still happy, notwithstanding cold
winter comes along every year.
	D. F. COX.
	Beaver.


[For the EXPONENT.
HOME.

	Home is a resting place for the weary a
place where love, peace, unity and virtue,
should always prevail. A place that when
storms threaten and dark clouds gather
around us, and earth seems gloomy and
dismal, we can take refuge in, and find
there true and loving friends to comfort the
aching heart, soothe the careworn brow and
cheer and console us when we are weary of
the cares of the world. A place where a
helping hand is extended to deliver us from
the snares, which all must encounter; lift
us from the pits, into which we are liable
to fall. It is not wealth that constitutes the
happiness of home, for in many homes
where wealth abounds contention and
strife exist.
	True happiness is found where the spirit
of God reigns supreme in the heart of both
parents and children; where the mother
the guardian angel of the home gathers her
little ones around her knee; and teaches
them true principles, both moral and religi-
ous: teaches them to reverence God, to respect
their parents, and superiors, to keep good


order, and to observe all, the rules which
should be observed in the family circle;
and then when the husband and father
comes home from his day’s labor, tired,
weary and perhaps troubled with the cares
of life let the wife and children greet him
with a smile, he feels refreshed and repayed
for the labor of the day and takes great
satisfaction, and pleasure in viewing the
pleasant face of the family. Such a home
the spirit of God chooses for an abiding
place and happiness beams in every face;
but I fear that there are many, too many
that realise the reverse but "there is no
exellence with out labor," no eminence to
be gained, no battle to be won, without a 
struggle and the only way is to struggle on.
If it were in my power I would impress
upon the minds of the mothers of Israel, the
necessity of rearing their sons and daughters
in the ways of the Lord, for I fear lest while
there are so many temptations and evil in-
fluences to decoy and lead away and the Youth,
that some of the sons of Zion may be led
into infidelity and her daughters fall a prey
to passion and folly. It is said and that 
truly, that HOME is woman's world, it is
her mission to preside at home and instruct
her children in eternal truth, that they may,
be instrumental in bringing to pass the
designs of the Lord. I would entreat par-
ents to set an example worthy of imitation
before their children, and strive to make
their homes, a paradise of peace. Where
love and union will prevail. And sin and
sorrow cease. L.E.W.
	Monroe, Nov 9th, 1879


NOTES AND NEWS.

	A GROUP in colors by Carmontelle has
been published, representing Mozart when
about seven years of age, seated at a harpsi-
chord, his father standing behind him with
a violin, his sister on the further side of the
instrument with a music-sheet in her
hands. The original drawing was made
about 1763, and is an excelent example of
Carmontelle's manner of drawing, invari-
ably in profile, with much taste and spirit
and abundance of character, the portraits of
his contemporaries.
	THE EXCAVATIONS undertaken by the
Prussian Government on the site of Per-
gamus, five or six months ago, have re-
sulted in some interesting discoveries.
Fragments of sculpture have been found
in a wall in the lower town, and among the
remains now being brought to light on
the acropolis is a large hexagon base of
marble which seems to have supported a
colossal statue of Zeus. The lower part is
adorned with the emblems of various dei-
ties, while the frieze has miniatures of the
elements with their names written above.


ANALYSIS.—Lady: "Why did you leave
your last place?" Cook: "Timper, mium."
Lady: Temper! "But when I'm put out my-
self, I show that I'm annoyed." Cook: "Oh,
I don't mind a m'rose timper, m'um,—a
revingful timper I likes; but a timper as
goes a nagnagnaggin' mornin,' noon, and
night won't dow ith me?"—Punch.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

GOOD MANNERS.

BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	I shall devote this chapter to eating and
drinking, breakfast, lunch, luncheon, din-
ner, etc.
	"Since custom is the principal magistrate
of human life, let men by all means endeav-
or to obtain good customs."—Lord Bacon.
In writing on these topics we shall en-
deavor to give our young people some true
ideas of the manners of polite society at
the present day in a general sort of way,
as of course very little definite information
can be imparted in one or two short articles.
Eating and drinking are positive necessi-
ties to life, and to preserve one's health it
is necessary that some order be observed in
regard to eating; also that the meals be
appetizing and enjoyable. There are many
people who scarcely take this matter into
consideration, and yet it is a subject of real
importance to health, and health is necssary
to happiness.
	To understand properly the etiquette at
table, so as to feel at ease in the society of
people who have had an opportunity of be-
ing well disciplined in the elegancies of 
eating and drinking, is certainly a very de-
sirable thing; and indeed it is something
to which due attention should be given, if
one has an ambition to be agreeable, and
not to be looked upon as a boor, ignorant of
those pleasant customs that make social in-
tercourse delightful. It is best to have or-
der at table in one's own home, if it is pos-
sible, and these things can be made possi-
ble under any ordinary circumstances, in
the cottages of the working people as well
as in the mansions of the rich; a clean,
tidy room, a neat white cloth, even though
it be of the poorest material, the food,
though ever so simple, well cooked, the
knives, forks and spoons bright, and the
general appearance of the table one of com-
fort. though no luxury can be afforded.
Children should be taught to eat in a quiet
and proper manner, instead of having their
food served out to them in a slovenly way,
as many mothers are apt to do to save trou-
ble. Books of etiquette usually tell us how
to conduct ourselves at table in society, at
dinner parties, entertainments, wedding
receptions, etc., but to do this a proper sys-
tem of order in all its minute details must
be observed in the home. There are com-
paratively few people in the world. who
have the tact to adapt themselves readily to
manners and rules in which they have had
neither training nor experience. Although
it is a very common remark that the looks
of an article of food, or the way in which
it is served, makes no difference as to the 
taste, yet those who can appreciate nice
distinctions know that meals artistically ar-
ranged and served tastily are eaten with a
far keener relish, and afford infinitely
greater satisfaction, than when done in a 
hap-hazard sort of way.
	But as it is impossible to determine for 
another what particular method of action
will best suit their circumstances and con-
ditions, we will only give some general in-
struction about eating, as laid down by Mrs.
Ward, Eating with one's friend under
their own roof is regarded as a sign of
friendship, and it is highly improper to ac-
cept an hospitality from an enemy. This
is the feeling of all honorable people. "Some
are deterred from accepting invitations by
the feeling that they cannot return the hos-
pitality in as magnificent a form. It is not 
the costly preparations, nor the expensive
repast offered, which are the most agree-

[Column 2]

able features of any invitation; it is the 
kind and friendly feeling that is shown. It
is a mistake to think that in giving a din-
ner it is indispensable to have certain
dishes, and a variety of wines, because
others serve them. * * * Some of the 
most agreeable dinners given are those
which are the least expensive. * * *
When everything is good in quality, and 
the dishes are well dressed,served warm and 
in proper succession, with their adjuncts,
and where the guests are congenial, a de-
gree of enjoyment will be insured that no
one need be afraid to ofier. * * Small
dinners can be better served than large
ones," and there is more real enjoyment to 
be derived from them. A host and hostess
generally judge of the success of a dinner
by the manner in which conversation has 
been sustained. If it has flagged often, it
is considered a proof that the guests have
not been congenial; but if a steady stream
of talk has been kept up, it shows that they
have smoothly amalgamated as a whole.
	"Invitations for a dinner party are not 
sent by post, and only answered by post
where the distance is such as to make it in-
convenient to send by a servant. They
should be issued in the name of the lady
and gentleman of the house ten days or a 
week in advance. They should be answered
as soon as possible, and, if accepted, the
engagement should on no account be lightly
broken. The hours most generally selected
are six, seven and eight o'clock. To be ex-
actly punctual on these occasions is the 
only politeness. Whom to invite is a con-
sideration which requires the exercise of 
judgement and discretion. Dinners are
generally looked upon as entertainments
for married people and the middle-aged;
but it is desirable to have some young un-
married persons. Those whom you invite
should be of the same standing. Care
must be taken that those whom you think
will be agreeable to each other are placed
side by side around the festive board. Good
talkers are invaluable at a dinner party—
people who have fresh ideas and plenty of
warm words to clothe them in; but good
listeners are equally invaluable. No one
should ever monopolize conversation, unless
he wishes to win for himself the name of a
bore, and to be avoided as such.
	"It has been said the numbers at a dinner
party should not be less than the Graces,
nor more than the Muses; when the num-
ber exceeds this limit, it is an excellent
plan to have the name of each couple left
on a tray for the guests to select those
which bear their names, that they may
know whom to escort to the table.
	"Fifteen minutes is the longest time re-
quired to wait for a tardy guest; then the
dinner should be announced, and the host
offers his arm to the lady who is to be es-
corted by him, the others follow arm in
arm, the hostess being the last to leave the
room. A host waits upon the oldest lady,
or the greatest stranger, or, if there be a 
bride present, precedence is given to her.
The hostess is escorted either by the oldest
gentleman, or the greatest stranger, or some
one whom she wishes to place in the seat
of honor at her right. The host places the
lady whom he escorts upon his right. The
seats of the host and hostess may be at the
middle, on the opposite sides of the table,
or at the ends."


[Column 1]
NORMANDY PEASANTS.

	A correspondent of the New York "Tri-
bute" writes an interesting letter on the
French peasants of Normandy:—

[Column 2]
	"The progress in this rich province of
the blouse-wearing class has been, since
the German invasion, prodigious. The
peasants here are not yet accustomed to
American farming implements, but they
soon will be if the government does not do
Prince Bismarck the favor of entering into
a tripartite league with Austria and Ger-
many against the manufactures of agricul-
tural products of the United States. The
greatest growth here is in the spirit of po-
litical inquiry that has grown up among
the people. In former times, that is, under
the Emporer Napoleon, and later, under the
Duc de Broglie, the vintner of the rural
commune took a single Paris paper. When
it was spelled through by his customers it
circulated slowly through the cottages.
The blacksmith had the reading of it for
one day, the tailor for another, and so on
until it had gone the rounds of the whole
neighborhood, and had become used up and
torn as an old bank-note that has been in
brisk circulation. This mode of clubbing
for a newspaper was illegal; but the thrift
of the peasants and their intense desire to
be acquainted with the fluctuations of the
money market were too much for the gov-
ernment. An Italian financier—whom
those who knew him called Monte Christo,
and who is now a millionaire ten times
over—did the Bourse articles of the "Siecle,"
which were soon found out and appreciated
according to their great worth in the vil-
lages where there were crocks full of mon-
ey, saved sou by sou, to invest. There was
scarcely a cider-shop in the whole province
in which that journal was not taken twelve
years ago. I find now that throughout
Normandy the Paris newspapers are sold at
Paris prices, and that bumpkins club to take
a whole lot of them. For the "Figaro"
there is little call. The "Gaulois" is also
'dull' in the market. They are both reac-
tionary, and the tittle-tattle in which they
indulge is not to the taste of the Gibeonites
of French civilization who look for serious
information to the newspaper. 'What does
it matter to laborious farmers,' said to me
yesterday the proprietor of a hotel at Lan-
grisne Sur Mer, 'whether the garters of
Cora Pearl are pink or blue, or whether she
washes herself with arsenical or pure spring
water? I don'[-] care a rush for a cleverly
concocted canard. Neither does any one
about me. Albert Millard sets the absinthe
drinkers laughing with imaginary memoirs
of Gambetta's Cook, Monsieur Trompette,
in which the President of the Chamber is
made to speak like a Zany at a fair. What
I want to know is how our representatives
really discharge their duties, and what
laws to lighten our taxes are proposed. I
want to learn whether the Army is becom-
ing efficient; but instead of receiving the
information I look for, some joker enlight-
ens me about the cheese-paring economy of
the Count de Paris when serving this au-
tumn as a Colonel in the Territorial Army.
If the reporters of the Boulevard journals
only came here in winter when we have
time for gossiping about those who were
here in the fine weather, they would hear
more scandalous anecdotes about the great
folks of Paris than they could serve out to
their readers in a twelvemonth. The
farmers round here are good republicans
and serious politicians. They know what
political supineness costs them, and they
try to instruct themselves. It is not either
"Figaro" or the "Gaulois." you may rest
assured, whom they will take for their in-
structors. You think them heavy louts;
they are deuced shrewd fellows, and they
are fast extricating themselves from the
mire of ignorance.'"—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		99


[For the EXPONENT.
"I'M WEARYING FOR MY DAUGH-
TER'S FACE."

The summer moon, in silver light,
	Her fairy picture overlaid,
Where drooping boughs and blossoms bright,
	Threw down their tracery of shade.
She sat alone, I ventured near,
	Softly beside her took my place;
She pressed my hand, "Oh! lady dear,
	I'm wearying for my daughter's face."

"'Twas for the holy Gospel's sake
	We left old England; left her there
Till we a home 'mid Saints could make,
	And she our toils and want be spared.
Grateful I've toiled, 'till faint at night,
	But oh! through all these lingering days,
I'm pining for the love and light—
	I'm wearying for my daughter's face.

"The good ship bearing my dear girl
	Comes nearer to me day by day;
O could I watch its flag unfurl,
	And welcome her from far away!
But weary miles of this wide earth
	Stretch out between, in dreary space;
I sit and mourn by our own hearth—
	I'm wearying for my daughter's face.

"I cannot wait for her dear feet
	To cross these mountains wild to me;
I must not wait, but go and meet
	The daughter dear I pine to see."
I could not answer her in speech,
	Her trembling hand I gently pressed;
When help is far beyond our reach,
	The silent love of all is best.

For many a mile, and many a day,
	They rode, their daughter dear to meet;
But slow for them, and long the way,
	Whose hearts with fond impatience bent.
At last, long ere the sun was down,
	They saw, below a sheltering hill,
The camp had halted, gathering 'round,
	Some scene with deepest interest filled.

With courteous mien, they near and pause
	Beside the group, and greeting one
With "Welcome, brother!" ask the cause
	Of the camp's halt, ere set of sun.
Ah! love hath quickest ear of all!
	They hear the sweetest lips' glad cry:
"Father and mother! dear ones all!
	Haste to me, kiss me ere I die!"

Ah, saddest hour that life has known!
	Ah, sweetest! that 'twas not too late;
Their tender arms enfold their own,
	Yet cannot wrest her from her fate.
Through storm at sea, and mountain gale,
	And weary march, her courage pressed,
Till nearing home she sank and failed,
	Too worn to bear joy's sweet excess.

They brought her here, that she might sleep
	With kindred faith, in holy ground;
And breaking hearts o'er her did weep,
	Who early won the martyr's corwn.
And they are nearing, day by day,
	The journey's end to that far place;
To meet and clasp, and dwell alway
	In the light and love of the daughter's face.

					AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.

S. L. City, Sept. 30, 1879.


[Column 1]

CORRESPONDENCE.

	WILLARD OITY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking a few items from Willard
would be interesting to your numerous read-
ers I send the following. The sisters in
general are alive to their duties always be-
ing ready to respond to any call that is
made on them, they are storing grain and
building a Granary, and Meeting Hall,
which are nearly finished. Our President
Sister Mary Ann Hubbard truly magnifies
her office always being full of faith and
good works and has the love and confidence
of all her sisters. On Aug. 12, being the 
anniversay of her sixty-third birthday, the
sisters got up a surprise party to celebrate
the day. At one o'clock the committee of
arrangements went to the residence of Bro.

[Column 2]

Charles W. Hubbard and invited Brother
and Sister Hubbard to accompany them to
the school house where their family and a 
great number of the brethren and sisters
had assembled in the lower room to receive
them. After being seated a song of wel-
come was sung, prayer by Bishop G. W.
Ward and singing again. A beautiful
wreath of hair flowers taken from the heads
of her family had been made unknown to 
her and was presented by seven young
ladies, afterwards short speeches, toasts,
and singing &, etc. At four o'clock the 
company adjourned to the upper room
which was tastefully decorated with mot-
toes and pictures; and above all the tables
were richly spread with the bounties of life.
The company of about one hundred sat
down and did ample justice to the feast.
Short speeches,toasts, songs, and recitations
were kept up until about seven o'clock
when the company was dismissed with
prayer, every one grateful for the enjoy-
ment they had had in each others society.
	HANNAH COOK,
Secretary.

	SMITHFIELD, Oct. 6, 1879.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I believe the sisters of Smithfield are not
often heard from, not because we are not
trying to do our duty, for we are; we are
caring for the poor and the sick, and we
are trying as a band of sisters to be united
and work for the good of all.
	We had a three days visit recently from
Sisters' E. R. Snow. M. I. Horne, S. M.
Kimball, and S. M. Heywood, when on 
their visit North; and we had a glorious 
time, one that will not soon be forgotten by
us, and I hope we will try and put in
practice the instructions we then received,
and may they live long to comfort and
encourage the sisters in their labors,for they
are growing more important and arduous
every year, and if every sister only real-
ized the importance of the mission we all
have to fill, there would be less slothfulness,
less caring for the things of the world.
The Sisters of the Latter-day Saints would
read the revelations and study the princi-
ples of the Gospel more and strive to clothe
the mind with intelligence and fit and
prepare themselves for the great and im-
portant duties that await all who will strive
to live the lives of Latter-day Saints. May
God bless all who are working for the ad-
vancement of WOMAN.
	Your sister and Co-worker in the Gospel.
		ELIZABETH T. JUSHAW.

	SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 17, 1879.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have been reading the various reports
of your societies attentively, and I have
been gaining some knowledge in regard to 
some of the societies here in San Francisco,
as I thought it might prove of interest to
some of your many readers.
	The different societies that I shall men-
tion are not of any particular sect. I visit-
ed the "Little Sisters' Infant Shelter;" this
is entirely a charitable institution, and was
organized by several wealthy little girls,
who have since grown to be young ladies,
and they are still the board of directors.
There are two hundred children from three
months to six years of age in the "Shelter,"
and were all the children of poor parents,
who have to work for support, and they have
no place to leave their children during their
absense, except at the "Shelter," and it
was designed for just such a charitable pur-
pose. The children all looked clean, and

[Column 3]

they had an abundance to eat, and a long
table, with high chairs on each side to sit
in. They have a large sunny room to play
in, and also a yard and plenty of toys that
were cast off by children more fortunate.
The sum of ten cents per day is charged
for each child, if the mother can pay, if
not, they are kept for nothing. The "Shel-
ter" is in charge of a capable matron, and 
she has plenty of assistance. It is in a very
prosperous condition.
	The Foundling Hospital is quite another
affair, and it is also conducted on the chari-
table plan, and it has been in a tottering
condition, until Michael Reese, the million-
aire died, and he bequeathed thirty thou-
sand dollars to it, and it is now in a flour-
ishing condition. There were some fifty of
these little abandoned waifs, in clean, cosy
cribs, when I visited it; sometimes there
are more, and sometimes less. These chil-
dren are nearly all very delicate; they seem
to have no vitality; they wither and die;
very few live to be a year old. They have
excellent care, and everything is scrupu-
lously clean.
	Attached to the Foundling Asylum is a 
Lying-in Hospital, where poor unfortunate
women can find good accommodation until
the crisis is past, when they go out again
and leave their little ones to the mercy of 
strangers. I know very many of these
waifs are adopted, but there is very often
so much disease in their little bodies, that
many do not care to take them. The poor
little helpless creatures, abandoned by those
who have given them life—what a worthy
object of charity! It does not increase the
crime, as many think, but diminishes it, for
many would, were it not for these houses
of refuge, crush the feeble spark of life.
	The "Home for Friendless Children" is 
conducted by a charitable lady of wealth,
who does it from pure love of children; she
takes all kinds of children and procures
good homes for them.
	Recently we have started what is called
the "Flower Mission." A bevy of girls as-
semble at a large hall and arrange flowers
for the indigent and sick, and every Thursday
a bunch is distributed here, there and at all
places where it is known there are sick peo-
ple, and the poor sick ones are allowed to
choose those flowers they prefer most. Flor-
ence Nightingale says the sick take great
delight in flowers. She speaks of a wild
nosegay being sent to herself when she was
ill, and from the moment it came recovery
became more rapid. What a beautiful
charity, to brighten the dying moments of
the poor, or friendless, with the flower they
love most. God is not unmindful of such
small acts, but He writes in the good book
all such noble deeds.
	There are very many charitable institu-
tions in this great city, and all more than
full. The Home for Aged and Infirm, and
the different Orphan Asylums must be
a great tax on the generous. We have also
a Protection and Relief Society. I am not
a member of any, but I find many ways to
bestow a little here and there; all sensitive
people do, for it is sad to see so much desti-
tution in this land of plenty.
	NELLIE.


A LITTLE girl addressing her sister asked,
"What was the chaos pa was reading about
to-day?" To which the sister replied,
"'Twas a great pile of nothing, and no
place to put it in."
	A LADY who had quarrelled with her
bald-headed lover said, in dismissing him,
"What is delightful about you, my friend,
is that I have not the trouble of sending
you back any locks of hair."


100		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 1, 1879.


[Column 1]
WOMANLINESS.

	One remark which is perhaps more frequent-
ly made than any other in reference to the so-
called woman question is, "why don't you
confine yourselves to woman's sphere, the
home, and the mother, instead of interfering
with men's privileges and wanting to mix up
with the strife, confusion and corruption of
politices. Men and women are born to fill
different places and it is absurd to try to change
the nature of things, the order of God."
	The Scriptures say, "man is not without the
woman, nor woman without the man in the
Lord;" then when we live, in harmony with
God's laws we shall be united in our efforts
and not pulling seperate ways; but we must do
this intelligently. In every person there is an
innate feeling, I want to know for myself, and
it exists, in women as well as men, therefore
why should men say this, or that, is not for
women to know, they need have nothing to
do with law, or government ,or medicine, or
theology, or politics; we attend to all these
things for them, we adjust these matters; and
so they want the little girls to dress their dolls
and make endless patchwork quilts, and rag
carpets to save all the shreds of calico and cloth,
because they cost money, but meanwhile their
precious God-given endowments of heart and
brain may lie dormant comparatively, and the
nerve forces of women be used in economizing
and keeping up a constant struggle to make
"something out of nothing" and woman be to-
tally dependant on man's capabilities instead
of developing her own.

	Objectors to equal opportunities for edu-
cation of the sexes, and to woman's suffrage
argue that woman's delicacy will be foiled by
studying in the same classes with men; and
that she will come in contact with rough men
at the polls; yet their wives, daughters and sis-
ters may go to balls and parties with neck and
arms bare, and waltz and polka with men, and
they seldom think it indelicate, because, for-
sooth, it is the fashion, and custom has made
it popular; and the newspapers will speak of
the fascinating Miss, or, Mrs. So and So, and
her elaborate costume, while it denounces in
strongest terms and holds up to ridicule noble-
minded women, who are laboring heart and
soul for the elevation of their sex, and the good
of humanity.
	Men will be men, and women will maintain
their identity "While life and thought and be-
ing last, or immortality endures;" there need
be no fear on that score. Men are not usually
frightened to let women carry about great
bundles of sewing, for which, in many large
cities, women only earn a bare pittance,
scarcely enough to keep the wolf from the
door—that is womanly work; but let her dare

[Column 2]
talk about voting, or securing equal wages
with men for the same amount of work faith-
fully executed, and she must expect to be cried
down as lacking in womanliness, or propriety.
	Women should be themselves in all that the
word implies, but they should have every ave-
nue for learning open to them, that they may
have a better and more practical knowledge of
the conditions of life. Every mother should
become intelligently acquainted with her own
physical and mental nature, her life powers,
her nerve forces, before she takes upon herself
the sacred obligations of motherhood, and
identifies herself with a new life. Enlightened
motherhood is one essential element wanted
to lay the foundation for a purer and better
race of people.
	From time to time there is great complaint
made of women's lack of government at home
over her children; this is an indispensable
qualification in the character of a mother, if
the home is to be a place of order, of quiet and
of peace. Ignorant women cannot control
their children, because they do not know the
first principles of self-control. They can flog
them, or frighten them with ghost stories, as
many do, but that is not government. A more
liberal spirit and feeling towards woman's ad-
vancement will add greater dignity to that
womanly sphere of which we hear so much,
the sphere of motherhood and home keeper.
The best teaching in the world, and that which
remains deepest engraven in the human heart
is mother's teaching. Then how necessary it
should be correct, and full of light and intelli-
gence.		[handwritten] E. B. Wells


WOMAN'S VICTORY.

	An interesting convention of the Woman's
Suffrage Association was held in the Empire
State, at Poughkeepsie, Oct. 24, commencing
at 10 o'clock A.M. Able and eloquent speeches
were delivered by Matilda Joslyn Gage, Lillie
Devereaux Blake, Helen M. Slocum, Albert O.
Wilcox and Clara Neyman, One of the princi-
pal features of this convention was the protest
against the election of Lucius Robinson for
Governor of New York, and although the wo-
men citizens of that State have not a vote they
have a voice, and they protested with a will
against Robinson as Governor, not only because
he vetoed the woman's school-bill in 1877, but
by his frequent pardon of criminals guilty of
the grossest outrages against their sex, he made
himself specially obnoxious; and also because
"they were impressed with the fact that the
questions before the country are far larger, of
wider scope, and more difficult to deal with
than at any previous time in the history of this
nation; and that the New York campaign had
far reaching effects for national weal or woe."
	Immediately after the convention Pough-
keepsie, Mrs. Gage went down to New York
and aided in the Anti-Robinson campaign.
	Mrs. Susan A. King, Lillie D. Blake, Helen
M. Slocum and Dr. Clemence S. Lozier worked
faithfully to obtain Robinson's defeat. Wo-
men's Anti-Robinson meetings were held in
every part of the city of New York and suburb-
an towns.
	Thousands and tens of thousands of the wo-
men's printed protests were circulated, not
only in every part of the city of New York, but
all over the State.
	Besides having defeated Robinson, they have
got Cornell's promise to sign the woman's
school-bill vetoed by Robinson, and to sustain
the Woman's Presidential Suffrage Bill, which
will secure to women the right to vote for elec-
tion of President and Vice-President.


Altogether, we think the women of New
York have stormed the castle and forced an
entrance that will give them firmer foothold
hereafter.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	RHEUMA says she dont care to answer to
Roll Call when the Convention is merely to
consider the political rights and wrongs of
women. But when the object is to adjust
equal Civil and Political rights and privileges
for men and women, she wishes to be always
counted present.
	THE half volume of the EXPONENT
closed with our last issue and as many
of our subscribers pay half-year subscrip-
tions we trust they will remember to
renew promptly.
	HON. George Q. Cannon Delegate to Con-
gress from this Territory, left for Washington
on the morning train Tuesday the 25th, ult.
He was accompanied by his wife and two
daughters. Mr. Cannon has probably reached
Washington in time for the opening of the
second Forty-sixth Congress which takes
place to day. Mr. Cannon is greatly respected
in Washington notwithstanding his peculiar
religious belief and practice. It is impossible
for them to say anything against him person-
ally his conduct and manner being above re-
proach. We hope Bro. and Sister Cannon and
the little girls, Misses Mamie and Emily, will
pass the winter pleasantly.
	We have received several grain reports
since the Grain meeting was held but we are
anxious to hear from all parts of the Territory
where grain is stored, or granaries have been
built, and the particulars in regard to the size
of the storehouses or bins, the cost, the material
used in building, or any other item connected
with this important enterprise. Do not fail to
specify how much of the wheat reported has
been gleaned.
	We have received a full file of vol. 2 of the
American Kindergarten Magazine published
in New York City an interesting little work
giving instruction on this method of teaching
the little ones. Miss Emily M. Coe the
editor, is the originator of the American
Kindergarten System of Education and of New
Material. In her letter to us in reply to ours,
she says, "I am glad we agree so perfectly on
the question of properly, educating the children.
I firmly believe that 'tis the only hope of our
land, and how sad that parents and teachers
are not awake to it as they should be. Like
you, I sympathize heartily with working wo-
men, and regret it is so difficult to find one
who is really well-trained to fill any important
position. We who realize it must do all that
we can for the children. And this is one
reason why I am working and longing for the
establishment of Kindergartens all over our
broad land, so that the little ones in every
city, village and hamlet may enjoy its
thorough training."
	Our readers will see that Miss C[-]e feels as
the sisters here do the necessity of beginning
at the very foundation, with the little children.
	Miss Coe's prospectus says in one of its
paragraphs. So to educate the children that
the terrible evils of our Social, Religious and
Political life shall be avoided, is the most im-
portant work of the present day. This par-
agraph is a sufficient text for a sermon on the
existing state of society in the world.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		101


HOME AFFAIRS.

	Sisters Eliza R. Snow, M. I. Horne and
Zina D. Young visited Santaquin Friday Nov.
14th and met with the Relief Society and ad-
dressed them in their Annual meeting which
was largely attended. Saturday at 10, o'clock
an Annual Conference of the Primary Associa-
tion, afterwards a picnic dinner at 12 o'clock
and dance in the afternoon. The affair was
specially enjoyable. On the following morn-
ing, Sunday the party reached Goshen in time
to attend the Sabbath School and attended the
ward meeting in the afternoon. Monday there
was a meeting of the Relief Society at 10
o'clock largely attended, also of the Primary
Association at 2 o'clock, Young Ladies and a
general meeting in the evening. Tuesday
morning the party went over to Payson held
three meetings there; At one o'clock P. M,
Relief Society at half past four o'clock with
the Primary Association Young Ladies and
general attendance in the evening.
	Wednesday the party visited Salem and
met with the Relief Society at 10 o'clock A.
M. Afternoon Sisters Horne and Young went
to Spanish Fork to fill an appointment and
were joined there by Sister M. T. Smooth.
Sister Snow remained and organized a Prim-
ary Association at Salem. The next morning
Sister Snow joined the party at Spanish Fork
where they held three meetings which were
most numerously attended. The Primary
Association at Spanish Fork numbers over
three hundred children. From Spanish Fork
the sisters went on and visited Springville
where they held two meetings. Friday the
sisters came on to Lehi, where Sisters Snow
and Horne met with the brethren and sisters
and also the Primary Associationsn Satur-
day morning. Sister Zina Young returned to
Salt Lake Friday evening; Sisters Snow and
Horne on Saturday evening. Everwhere the
ladies were received cordially, and the breth-
ren seemed to enjoy the Sisters' meetings and
hearing the ladies speak quite as much as the
sisters.


[Column 1]
VISIT TO ENGLAND.

(CONCLUDED)

	I visited Nottingham Lincoln and Derby
did not stay long enough to visit the Saints in
those places. Spent a few days in London
visiting most places of interest, such as the
Tower, Madam Tassand's wax work, Crystal
Palace, Zoological Gardens, St. Paul's, West-
minster Abby, Albert Hall, Memorial and
some few other places of interest besides at-
tending the Adelphi Theatre where I saw the
Tragedy of "The Bells" performed. By this
time felt about ready to return home, having
made up my mind to accompany Bro. Savage
and Ottinger, leaving on the 4, of Oct. by the
Steamer Montana. My son and my friend
Sister Rivett accompanied me to Liverpool,
remaining with me over night but left me
before the vessel sailed, it being later when it
left port, than advertised. With the assistance
of the brethren got on board comfortably had
favorable weather, about the 6th, met a sailing
ship in distress it had been sixty days at sea
and was out of provisions; for two weeks they
had lived on hard bread and water. They
were relieved by our Captain who gave them
beef, pork, potatoes, bread, tea and other com-
forts. We got a little out of our way and on
the 10th and 11th, encountered a terrific storm,
when the ship was in great danger, but through
the kind Providence of our Heavenly Father,
we were preserved from a watery grave. The

[Column 2]
15th, was a lovely day and we enjoyed it on deck
viewing the many vessels playing around in
the beautiful harbor of New York, we landed
late in the evening. We took a cab to the
Stevens House, after partaking of a little re-
freshment retired to a comfortable bed, for
which I felt truly thankful, for having been
sick most of the way, was doubly thankful
there was no more traveling by water, for I
assure you I am a very poor sailor.
	I concluded to proceed on my journey alone
the next evening, with the kind help of
Elder Staines, and thoughtful attention of
Elder B. F. Cummings Jun. who procured my
ticket through to Salt Lake and had my bag-
gage checked through also, giving me all the
information I required and attended to other
little things that I needed, kindly saw me safe-
ly seated in the cars before he left me his
timely aid being very much appreciated.
Having no one traveling with me, with whom
I was accquainted my journey overland, was
some what solitary, not meeting with any with
whom I could converse, :with the exception of
two ladies mother and daughter traveling
from New Jersey to Los Angelos. As I neared
home became more impatient, yet enjoyed the
overland route much better, than the Ocean
having recourse to books to pass away the
time; and occasionally stepping off the cars
for a little refreshment. Arrived in Ogden on
the evening of Oct. 21st finding there to meet
me my husband and four other members of our
family and on reaching Salt Lake City others
of the family greeted me, also a host of little
grandchildren and some of my friends. When
I entered home once more which was indeed
the dearest spot on earth to me, all being de-
lighted to see me, and I equally so to behold
their faces once more, I have come to the con-
clusion that a visit to friends so far away, and
at so much cost, and the risk of one's life is
not repaid by the brief pleasure it affords, in
viewing the home of one's childhood, or
visiting the friends of our youth, when their
views and feelings are so opposite to our own.
Realising the truth that the world does not
love those who have gathered themselves out
from it to serve God more perfectly. I am
thankful to say my son enjoys the spirit of his
mission and is laboring faithfully in and around
Sheffield preaching out of doors during the
summer for the most part and had the
privilege of baptizing some; like myself was
not in love with his native country, and
would not stay a day longer if it were not for
his mission to preach the Gospel. He is
treated kindly by the Saints though they are
very poor, his heart often being pained to see
so much poverty: amongst them, while their
desire is to gather to Zion with but little hope
of deliverance. Our young brethren, are blest
with the Spirit of the Lord in their labors and
are willing to endure all things for the Gospel's
sake. So few feel interested with regard to
their soul's salvation, or with the principles
of truth and righteousness, that they are in-
deed like the fisher, and hunter, sent out in
these last days, or it is like the gathering of
grapes when the vintage is over. The rainy
summer caused England to have a very gloomy
appearance; I would think sometimes surely
the sun has refused to shine upon the land, and
that darkness covered the earth and gross
darkness the minds of the people.
			Yours affectionately.
							E. H. Goddard,


[Column 1]
OBITUARIES.

	Isaac Dunford, whose sudden death was
briefly noticed some few weeks since, was born
June 23d, 1824, in Trowbridge, Wilts, England.

[Column 2]
He was baptized in said town by Elder John
Halliday, in the month of July, 1848, was or-
dained an Elder under the hands of his brother,
George Dunford, and was appointed President
of the Steeple-Ashton branch, Jan. 9th, 1853.
On his departure for America, the Saints over
whom he presided, presented him with a beau-
tiful memorial, inscribed on parchment, as a
token of the high esteem and respect with
which he was regarded. Brother Dunford re-
mained at Saint Louis, where he labored for
the support of his family, and to acquire the
necessary means for their journey to Utah.
He was always faithful in his tithes and liberal
in his offerings, and those in need found him
a friend indeed. He was subsequently ap-
pointed President of the Saint Louis Con-
ference, which position be filled with dignity
and honor, and arrived in Salt Lake Valley
Sep. 25th, 1864. He was employed by the Hon.
Wm. Jennings as salesman, for two months,
whose employ he left voluntarily, and in com-
pany with Elder James H. Hart, in the cold,
dreary days of December, wended his way,
with ox teams, via Franklin and Soda Springs,
to the beantiful Bear Lake Valley. He located
in Bloomington, where he made, by his indus-
try, a comfortable home. Although unaccus-
tomed to manual labor on his arrival in Bloom-
ington, he worked alongside and shoulder to
shoulder with born and bred farmers and
mountaineers, and by his energy and perseve-
rance succeeded in getting a comfortable home
and beautiful surroundings, which he had
scarcely completed when he was called away.
	He was actively engaged as a home mission-
ary, in which capacity his labors were ap-
preciated by the Stake Presidency and by the
people. He was ordained a High Priest, under
the hands of President Charles C. Rich, which
office he strove to magnify. He was modest
and retiring in his manners, and would take
the lowest seat in the synagogue; but he was
uncompromising in defence of the Gospel. In
his testimony of the Latter-day work was bold
as a lion. On the last Sabbath of his life your
correspondent called upon him from the hum-
ble seat he had selected, to sit among his peers
and fellow laborers.
	He was thrown from his wagon in Black-
smith's Fork Ca[-]on, whilst en route to Salt
Lake City. to attend Conference on the 4th of
October, 1879, and was killed instantly, his
wife and three children with him at the time
escaped unhurt.
	He was the father of seven sons and six
daughters. He leaves a loving wife, six
sons, one daughter, and five grandchildren
with a host of friends to mourn his loss.—Des.
News.

	DIED in this City Sept. 18th, 1879. Of diph
therea, Nora, daughter of James P. and Jane
Freeze, aged five yerrs.
	Our little Nonie "has passed from death, unto
life; her loving disposition and sweet winning
ways endeared her to our hearts with a strong
and tender tie, but, while we feel that a bright
ray of sunshine has been taken from our home:
Hope points to a glorious meeting when all
tears shall be wiped away and death will have
no more power to rob us of our treasures and
make our hearts desolate.			L.

	DIED in Peoa, December 24th, 1878, Emma
Reed Wright; aged twenty-six years; leaving
a husband and one child to mourn her loss.
	In the same place August 9th, 1879, Dorothy
Hanson Jorgenson, a native of Denmark, aged
thirty-give years; leaving a husband and five
children to mourn her loss.


Also October 8th, 1879, Annie Carlson Jenson
a native of Sweden, born February 25th, 1844.
Sister Jenson embraced the Gospel in 1868,
and came to Utah in 1869. She was a teacher
in the Peoa Relief Society from its first organ-
ization up to her death, attending to her duties
faithfully, and was loved and respected by all.
She died in full faith and fellowship in the
Gospel, and leaves a loving husband and four
children to mourn her loss.
	Sisters Wright and Jorgenson were also faith-
ful members of the Relief Society of Peoa, and
were respected by all who knew them.
	L. M.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	The Relief Society of Bennington, Idaho,
was organized May 22d, 1879; Sister Mar-
garet Van Orman was chosen for President,
Sisters Catherine Wright and Sarah Lind-
say, Counselors, Sarah Parker Secretary,
and Mary Hunter Treasurer. Our Society
numbers thirty-five members. Our meet-
ings are held semi-monthly, and consider-
ing the short space of time elapsed since
our organization, we are progressing favor-
ably; the sisters are liberal in Temple dona-
tions and those needed for other purposes.
A general good feeling prevails, and a de-
sire is manifest to aid the cause of truth.
	Praying God to bless you,
			SARAH PARKER, Sec'y.
		BEAVER DAMS, BOX ELDER CO.
	The sisters here were organized into a
Relief Society Feb. 16, 1879, by Bishop J.
C. Dewey; officers as follows; Sarah Ann
Durphy, President; Ellenor Bowen and
Martha Busenbark, Counselors; Julia Bow-
en, Secretary; Cynthia Durphy, Treasurer.
	Our Society numbers fourteen members
and officers. We are only a few in number,
but we are trying to do what we can towards
helping to build up the kingdom of God.
We hold our meetings semi-monthly, for
the purpose of performing our religious du-
ties and doing what work we can. Our
meetings are small, there being only an
average attendance of seven, but the sisters
are united, and feel willing to do all they
can to help in this great work. We intend
now to donate some to the Logan Temple.
We are trying to carry out the counsel given
to store up grain; we have a few bushels
on hand and are striving to increase our
little store. We also have a share in the
Deweyville Co-op Store, and some property
in the Treasury. We take the EXPONENT
in our Society, which is read with much
interest by the sisters.
	We were favored with a visit from Miss
Eliza R. Snow, of Salt Lake City, and Mrs.
Harriet and Mary Snow and Mrs. Susanna
Booth, of Brigham City. We held a short
meeting Aug. 12; the ladies each occupied
a short time in speaking, encouraging the
sisters to be faithful and attend their meet-
ings, and be diligent as mothers in teach-
ing the children true principles. May God
bless them and prolong their lives, is the
prayer of your sister,
		JULIA M. BOWEN, Sec'y.
		SNOWVILLE.
	President Harriet Snow and party visited
us on Oct. 18; we felt well to receive them.
They staid over Sunday, and then proceed-
ed to Park Valley, forty-five miles West.
and on the 22d they returned and held
meeting with the sisters and children; a
number of the brethren were also present
in the morning. The meeting was ad-
dressed by President Harriet Snow and
Sister E. Madsen.

[Column 2]

	In the afternoon President Snow organ
ized the Young Ladies' Mutual Improve-
ment Association; also a Primary Associa-
tion. After which Sister Abigail Rosen-
baum addressed the meeting in a spirited
and energetic manner, calculated to make
a lasting impression upon those who heard
her. Pres. Mary Goodliffe then addressed
the meeting in her interesting way and
represented the Relief Society of this place
in a good condition. Elder P. F. Madsen
then addressed the mothers and the young
folks; his address was most excellent. In
fact, it was a feast for us, all to listen to
the kind and able remarks given by him
and the sisters. The Bishop and his coun-
selors have our thanks, as they contributed
to make the stay of our sisters and friends
pleasant, and we shall long remember the
happy time.
			ESTHER GOODLIFFE, Sec'y.
		RICHFIELD, FIRST WARD.
	We do not wish to be forgotten, and
therefore will endeavor to give a short
sketch of our progress in this Ward. Al-
though we have been backward in a repre-
senting ourselves, we are in a thriving
condition; I believe all are trying to do their
duty as Saints of God. The teachers visit
regularly, and their reports are generally
favorable. Our meetings are well attended,
and we feel a desire to press onward in the
good work in which we are engaged. The
members are united in their efforts to do
good, and we feel like improving intellec-
tually as well as spiritually. Hoping we
may individually and as a Society add our
influence and unite in building up the king-
dom of God.
		ELIZABETH ENCE, President.
		MARY ANDELME,	Counselors.
		RUTH HEYWARD,


[Column 1]
CHARACTER EIGHTH.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	The "Tout ensemble" is elegant, the figure
tall, supple and graceful—altogether indica-
tive of the inner man, remarkably verify-
ing the aphorism that "the spirit makes
the form." The triune national character-
istics appear forcibly in this character, and 
he claims progeniture from each. His
mind is of the highest order, nothing low,
or sensual, dwells there; and though con-
stantly moving in a radius of worldliness,
it seems ever "a thing apart" from the at-
mosphere in which his heart and brain re-
volve. The head denotes a temple for
meditation, the forehead massive, denoting
power, the hair light, complexion fair, eyes
blue and penetrating, nose straight, mouth
rather large, teeth fine, a countenance that
will bear looking at. The expression, with-
out qualification, good; that of the eyes
earnest, gentle and spirit-thrilling, and that
repel not; they infuse no fear of miscon-
struction, so we feel "at home" at once; in
them we see candor, purity, generosity and
humility, in fine, that "touch of nature
which makes the whole world kin!" Man-
ners gentle, apprehensive, hasty and hur-
ried, which the friction of conventionalism
would soon wear off, and polish into sedate-
ness; a mind open to conviction, and ready
to be set right when erring, possessing no
small pride, that will not bend to more ma-
ture experience than its own. The charac-
ter is most methodical; if order is not de-
veloped on that cranium, phrenology is no
science! more decision and firmness than 
are usually found in fair complexions;

[Column 2]
strictly conscientious and active in the busi-
ness of daily life; fond of literature and in-
tellectual enjoyment, with a good discrimi-
nation and judgment in such matters. A
mind fully capable of appreciating the 
mental magnates of the present day, and
those of a past age; possessing a love of
beauty, whether in the tree, the flower, or
"the human face divine." All pure and
rightly constructed minds possess this, es-
pecially when cultivated and refined, and
enables them to worship the God of nature
"with the spirit and with the understand-
ing;" and through my "magic glass" I per-
ceive this soul is charged with as little dross
as is usually mixed up in human compounds
—that said compound requires a portion of
alloy to bear the wear and tear of this
work-a-day world. "Gold too highly re-
fined will not bear the stamp that renders
it current!"
	Alas! If we etherealize too much, we be-
come unfit for the matter of fact duties of
life; but soar we must and will, and La-
martine, and De Stael, and Young, and 
Shakespeare, and other beloved immortals,
have done their best to lend us wings that 
bear us to "Les Champs Elysees!" And 
they have carried me off from my charac-
ter! No, they cannot do that, it is so mixed
up with them, that if I speak of one I re-
member the other, and though our names
appear not on the earthly scroll on which
theirs are emblazoned, we are of the same
kith and kin, because we love and appre-
ciate them; and in the grand eternities shall
surely meet them.
	This character is firm and faithful in its
attachments—in friendship devoted and
honorable, even to a romance; change of
creed or circumstance may wound, may
startle, may cause it to mourn, but it set-
tles back loyally to its plighted troth, as
the needle to the pole.
	Its cup of life has been mixed with the
bitterness of death—even in early manhood
it was called upon to drink the draught
that separates the loving on this earth. It
plighted eternal faith to the memory of the
departed, and its life has ratified the vow.
It worships God as the Giver of all good,
and bows resignedly to His decrees, and to
such He gives the silent unction of His
Spirit, and bears them over the dark chasms
and the deep waters of this sublunary
scene. Faithfulest of friends, I leave you
in the Eternal Arms.

CHARACTER NINTH

	The character of a noble building is gen-
erally indicated by its portico, or grand en-
trance; so is a human character frequently
defined by the external appearance where
nature has had full play, and untoward cir-
cumstances have not intervened to prevent
it; occupation, association, or want of pro-
per training may in some cases impair the
external appearance, and then character is
not so apparent, but when law merges into
order, the spirit will decidedly make the
form.
	The personal appearance of my present
character is, I believe, truly indicative of 
the principal features of the same; figure
tall and well proportioned—it is said with 
truth that "proportion is beauty," hence
this character can lay claim to its quantum
of that attraction. Let us delineate it some-
what—that it is a star of great magnitude
in my heart's hemisphere, a noble speci-
men of humanity both physically and men-
tally, morally and socially; he stood a lit-
tle under six feet, the finely formed head,
that temple of thought, was fitly placed
upon a finely moulded neck and shoulders


[Column 1]
—a bust that might have served a sculptor
for a model—shoulders broad and falling,
beyond which tapered a finely developed
waist; limbs beautifully formed, the leg and
foot might have vied with a vestris; the
hand, as is usual, corresponding, pulpy and
tapering to the extremities; general carriage
noble, the walk vigorous and elastic, firm,
but agile, the foot firmly planted, and the
body flexile and graceful in every move-
ment; I have taxed my memory and can-
not recall an imperfection in externals.
and the features, let me not forget them.
Forget them? Memory is immortal on
them. Where shall I commence? The
forehead, equally high and broad; the eyes
quiet but penetrating—eyes you could not
meet if you had anything to conceal; the
nose Grecian; the mouth—I can feel its
beauty better than describe it! I have never
seen another that resembled it; even his
children did not possess it. It seemed chis-
eled, and the lips fitted into each other
with perfection; the complexion the very
picture of health. The charm of the face
lay in the great goodness of the expression,
which was benevolence and love. Had a
phrenologist known this character and ex-
amined this head, he would have said, "I
require no farther proof, phrenology is a
science." Charity, benevolence, purity,
yes, all that the heart looks for in man, was
shadowed forth in this venerated character.
Am I partial? I have a right to be; but
truly, my pen cannot, by any means, do
justice here, or my language would be
called flattering, inflated, and my picture
overdrawn, so difficult is it sometimes to
persuade people of the truth of God. N'im-
porte! facts are stubborn things, and are as
eternal as the Grand Pyramid.
	Did I live to see age and sorrow dim this
beloved character? Yes; and I was the one
that, for the truth of God, brought his grey
hairs with sorrow to the grave. He did
not cavil, he did not censure, but to lose
those whom he loved to an intensity was
more than his declining years could brook,
and he silently sank into the arms of death
with suppressed grief!" His life had been
of such a nature that he could almost com-
mand circumstances, and the love and de-
votion of his whole family had been his
"exceeding great reward." I look back
and think it almost enervated him; it made
him unprepared for such a sweeping blow—
to lose those who had been "the apple of
his eye," of whom he was so righteously
proud. Reason could not meet it, and re-
flection and cruel separation was death,
and silently he bowed his head and gave
up the ghost. My tears are falling! but I
turn to my God, for whom I laid this blessed
man upon the altar; I turn to the undying
soul inhabiting the courts of glory, living
now in undying youth and beauty, and the
glorious mind expanding into heavenly
prescience of eternal life. I catch glimpses
of light and knowledge that know and un-
derstand the why and the wherefore of
that which removed him from this sphere
of action. And though his name is em-
blazoned on no earthly scroll of fame, I
know it was traced by the recording angel
"in the chancery of heaver," sealed with
the signet of eternity! I dare say this, be
cause I believe the Scriptures to be the
Word of God, and in them I read!  "Re-
member thy Creator in the days of thy
youth; those that seek me early shall find
me;" and I know that he sought him in
his youth and early manhood, and forgot
him not in his maturer age, and therefore
he shall be found of him. And I read
again, "He that is faithful in that which is

[Column 2]
least, is faithful also in much." And to
him that laid out the talents committed to
his care it was said, "Well done, good and
faithful servant, enter into the joy of thy
Lord." Do those words mean nothing?
Are they not rather addressed to every one
who in sincerity and according to the best
light they have keep to the "straight and
narrow way that leadeth unto life?" Oh,
most assuredly! This, then, shall be the
epitaph of this beloved and venerated
character—"Well done, good and faithful
servant."					FINIS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		103.


ADVICE TO YOUNG LADIES.

	John Ruskin gives the following advice
to young ladies: "In order to investigate
one's self, it is well to find out what one is
now. Don't think vaguely about it. Take
pen and paper and write down as accurate a
description of yourself as is possible, and, if
you dare not, find out why you dare not
and try and get strength of heart enough to
look yourself in the face, mind as well as
body. Always have two mirrors on your
dressing table, and with proper care dress
mind and body at the same time. Put
your best intelligence to finding out what
you are good for and what you can be made
into. The mere resolve not to be useless
and the honest desire to help other people
will in the quickest and most delicate way,
improve one's self. All accomplishments
should be considered as means of assisting
others. In music get the voice disciplined
and clear, and think only of accuracy; ex-
pression and effect will take care of them-
selves. So in drawing; learn to set down
the right shape of anything and thereby
explain its character to another person: but
if you try only to make showy drawings
for praise, or pretty ones for amusement,
your drawing will have little or no real in-
terest for you and no educational power
whatever. Resolve to do every day some-
thing useful in the vulgar sense. Learn
the economy of the kitchen; the good and
bad qualities of every common article of
food, and the simplest and best mode of
their preparation; help poorer families in
their cooking, showing them how to make
as much of everything as possible, and how
to make little, nice; coaxing and tempting
them into tidy and pretty ways, and plead-
ing for well folded table cloths, however
coarse, and for a flower or two out of the
garden to strew on them. One should at
the end of every day be able to say, as
proudly as any peasant, that she has not eat-
en the bread of idleness. Get quit of the
absurd idea that heaven will interfere to
correct great errors, while following its laws
to take their own course in punishing small
ones. If food is carelessly prepared, no one
expects Providence to make it palatable;
neither, if through years of folly you mis-
guide your own life, need you expect divine
interference to bring around everything at
least for the best. I tell you positively the
world is not so constituted. The consequen-
ces of great mistakes are just as sure as
those of small ones, and the happiness of
your whole life, and of all the lives over
which you have power, depends as literally
on your own common sense and discretion
as the excellence and order of the feast of a
day.


SILK MEETING.

	Meeting of the Utah County Silk Asso-
ciation, held Nov. 8, 1879, at Provo City.
	Besides the presence of Mrs. Margaret
T. Smoot, presiding, with counselors and


presidents of the district organizations,
Sister Zina D. Young, Sarah M. Kimball,
Hannah T. King and Emmeline B. Wells,
of Salt Lake City, were in attendance.
	Favorable reports were received from the
districts of the county. After explanatory
remarks by Pres. M. T. Smoot, relative to
the local organization and business, Bishop
Wm. Paxman spoke encouragingly of the
efforts of the sisters; followed by Elder
Daniel Graves, who advocated the adoption
by the Association of the method known
as the Cottage Culture of Silk. Advised a
liberal sowing of lettuce seed this fall, as
lettuce leaves could be used for feeding the
young worms in case the late frosts of the
coming spring should destroy the first crop
of mulberry leaves, as was the case in some
districts the past season; also advised the
secretaries of the districts to be careful and
preserve on record correct statements of
the silk and eggs produced, that true statis-
tical reports could be obtained if required.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young, President of Dese-
ret Silk Association, assured the members
of the Association that Pres. John Taylor
was greatly interested in the success of
Sericulture, and that he was using his in-
fluence with a view to practical results in
the erection of suitable buildings, with im-
proved machinery, for the manufacture of
the silk of the Territory. Encouraged the
planting of the mulberry tree in all the
available space that could be found, for or-
namental trees, live fence, or direct service
in sericulture, that the children may have
an opportunity of being trained in habits
of industry. Due notice would be given of
any general movement of the proposed
Territorial Meeting, that the Presidency, of
the Stakes and districts might have an op-
portunity of attending.
	Others of the sisters from Salt Lake City
offered remarks in the encouragement of
the business, giving good counsel and ad-
vice in regard to the observance of every
effort being made to make the business a
success, extending their remarks to por-
traying the virtues and ambition that should
characterize the mothers in Israel in help-
ing to sustain Zion, not only in making the
apparel of her daughters beautiful in the
workmanship of their own hands, but in
training their children in all the virtues
becoming the professions of Latter-day
Saints.
	Meeting adjourned until the 14th of Feb-
ruary, 1880.
						A. JONES, Sec'y.


A FEW OF MY THOUGHTS.

ESSAY READ BEFORE A MEETING OF THE
Y. L. M. I. A., 11TH WARD.

	As this Association is for the improve-
ment of the young, I will endeavor to write
that which I think will be a benefit to the
girls, as also to myself. I am aware that
there are many temptations for the young,
and unless we are prayerful the adversary
will have power over us to lead us to de-
struction; therefore it behooves us to be
diligent and seek earnestly to God for a
testimony of this work. It grieves me
very much when I see the course that
many of our girls are taking—those who
have been raised in this Church. They
do not seem to realize what they are doing,
and that it will bring sorrow to them in a
day to come. All they think of is the
pleasure it will bring at the time; they do
not give the future a thought. We hear
some girls making very foolish and unwise
remarks in reference to marriage. * * *


I would say to them, be careful and use
judgment in the selection of a partner for
life, and seek a man of God, one who is try-
ing to live his religion, for marriage is in-
deed a serious thing; and when you do
marry, be married according to the law of
God, through the new and everlasting cove-
nant. Do not throw yourself away on those
men who come here seeking the destruc-
tion of the young.	*	*
	I would also say to mothers, be careful
in the training of your daughters, and
should you hear them speak unwisely or
injudiciously of sacred and holy principles,
tell them of their folly and the disgrace
they will bring upon themselves and their
parents. A great deal depends upon moth-
ers, for a mother's advice will never be
forgotten. Not long ago I heard a lady ex-
press herself most indiscreetly regarding
her daughter. I did not say anything, but
I had my thoughts. Girls cannot be blamed
if their mothers give them improper advice;
still, they would not be justified in doing
that which they knew to be wrong. I
would say, let us lay aside all folly and seek
to serve God and keep His commandments,
that when we have acted our part on this
stage we may gain an eternal exaltation.

				MISS LIZZIE LIDDELL,


104		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


GRAIN MEETING.

	The Woman's Annual Territorial Grain
Meeting was held in the Council House in
this city Saturday, Nov. 15, at two o'clock
P. M., Mrs. E. B. Wells presiding. meet-
ing opened by singing; prayer by Mrs.
Phebe Woodruff; singing again. Then the
report of last meeting was read by the Sec-
retary, Mrs. Elizabeth Howard. After the
minutes were accepted, the Secretary read
the reports from various parts of the Terri-
tory, gave an account of the work accom-
plished by the sisters in the storing of grain
and building granaries. The meeting was
devoted specially to business, suggestions
and remarks relative to the work. The
thoughts of the sisters seemed to concen-
trate upon the movement, and many things
were said which will no doubt tend to in-
crease the interest already awakened upon
this subject. The meeting was addressed
by Sisters E. B. Wells, S. McGregor, S. M.
Kimball, B. W. Smith, E. H. Goddard,
Presendia Kimball, Anna Savage, Phebe
Woodruff, S. M. Heywood, H. T. King, So-
phia Taylor Nuttall of Kane Co. Closed
with singing, "The Spirit of God like a
fire is burning." Prayer by Mrs. Presendia
Kimball.					E. HOWARD.

	As the reports have not all been received,
the general report for the year cannot yet
be made. There have been a great many
granaries and bins built by the sisters in
various parts of the Territory. We shall
be glad to receive reports as early as possi-
ble from all who have not yet reported.
							E. B. W.


PRIMARY CONCERT.

	On the 25th, of October it being the
birthday of our respected President Hannah
Brower, we held a Primary Concert which
consisted of many beautiful songs and little
essays got up for the occasion, and praise is
due to our young brothers and sisters for
the improvement that they have already
made. Coun M. Thompson presented the
President a beautiful bouquet of flowers
also the little girls a picture representing
childhood at play, which were received
with grateful acknowledgment by our


worth President. All went on in good
order and each returned to their several
homes rejoicing in the work of the Primary
Class. The Concert was adjourned till the
first day of June, 1880. The day on which
it was organized it being the birthday of
our beloved President and Prophet Brig-
ham Young.

	Richmond.		M. A. WEBB.


LITERARY AND PRACTICAL.

	The Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement
Associa[-]ion of Spanish Fork was organized
March 31, 1875, with seventeen members,
including officers; it now numbers one hun-
dred and fifty-one. We have a weekly
manuscript paper, called "The Young La-
dies' Herald of Union," which was estab-
lished with the organization of the Society,
treating upon a variety of subjects, princi-
pally theological, interspersed with poetry,
original and selected, changing its editors
each week.
	We have seventy bushels of wheat that
was gleaned by the young ladies of the
Association; have donated fifty-eight dol-
lars to missionaries, and sixty-five dollars
to Temple fund.
	Our Society and the Y. M. I. A. of this
place hold monthly conjoint meetings, also
have a small library in common.
	HANNAH CORNABY, Cor. Sec'y.


DIVERSIONS.

	ONE fact in natural history is pig-headed
men are always bores.

	HEE-HAW!—"That's a relation of yours,"
said a devoted husband to his most affec-
tionate wife, pointing to a donkey. "Yes,
by marriage," was the scientific reply.

	"Do you have any hops in Kent?' asked
a London belle, who was dressing for a ball,
of a country cousin from the "Garden of
England." "Oh, yes, lots! Pa has forty
acres of 'em in one field."


[Column 1]
NEW HOME-MADE GOODS,
For Sale at the Old Constitution Building,
Salt Lake City.
	Plain Centre Shawls, Fine Grey, Red and White Yarn,
Plain Grey Flannel, Check Waterproof, Mottled Blankets,
Shoulder Shawls, Red Twilled Flannel, Fine White [-]an-
nel, Etc. Making our Stock of Woolen Goods Com-
plete.				MINNIE HORN, Clerk.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE.
IF not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and without any noise and confu-
sion, although the rate of speed is very high. Its self-
setting and self-threading shuttle, and absence of springs
and cogs renders it both simple and durable. Be sure to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend.
Victor Sewing Machine Co., Chicago, Ill.
O. H. [-]IGGS. Agent, Salt Lake City.

NEW FALL STOCK.
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

[Column 2]
DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responped to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	Has opened her Medical Class at her residence in the
13th Ward, two blocks and a half east of the Post Office
south side of the street, nearly opposite the Presbyterian
Church.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

TO THE LADIES!
HEALTH Corsets, Shoulder Braces, Skirt Supporters,
Back Braces, and Abdominal Supporters, for sale or
made to order, by P. E. HARPER, First South Street,
nearly opposite Theatre.
	Mrs. ZINA D. YOUNG, agent for this Territory.
	Physicians and Ladies, call and examine.

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.
MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes. Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

AT TEASDEL'S 
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special departments for Gent's Clothing
and Carpets, Ladies and Children's Shoes,
Dry Goods, Shawls and Domestics,
Groceries, Hardware and Stoves.

DRIED FRUITS of all CLASES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
Salt Lake City.					97 Kimball Block.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

