VOL. 8.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1879.	No. 3.


ADDRESS
TO BISHOP EDWARD HUNTER.
Bishop of Bishops!
We would humbly now,
A wreath of honor twine around your brow.
Let honor be to him whom honor's due--
This, worthy veteran, we concede to you.
Long haye you served, and served in righteousness--
Long have you labored, and in faithfulness.
Like a tall sturdy forest oak you've stood,
Confronting evil and promoting good
When persecution scathing vollies sent,
You braved the storms, unshaken and unbent.
One of God's nobles, you have truly proved,
An honest man in every sphere you've moved;
Honest and true to every sacred trust,
Truthful in word, and in your dealings just.
The generations yet to come will tell,
You made your record and you made it well.
The path of duty carefully you've trod--
True to yourself, the Priesthood and to God.
We record bear--in many a trying hour
Your cheering words have added strength and power:
To woman's efforts when our duties led,
O'er human needs, benificence to shed.
To clothe the naked, and the hungry feed,
And in broad fields of usefulness to lead.
You've marked our labors and have unders[-]ood
Our work is arduous and our motives good.
Your kind, appreciative influence
To us has been a standing recompense.
In Zion's cause you've labored long and hard;
By faith and works have earned a rich reward,
And hold, by legal claim, a Deed of Trust
Due in the resurrection of the just.
Though ripe in years and ripe in usefulness,
God grant you length en'd life and happiness,
And health and strength by day, and nightly rest--
Live, and in blessing others, be thou blest.
When in the flesh your work is fully done--
Your battles fought and all your vict'ries won,
In cloudless glory may your setting sun
Go down in peace.
E. R. Snow


THOUGHTS ON THE POETS.
BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Crabbe—I have not much to say about
him. But he was esteemed by Burke, and
from his first interview with that generous
man his prosperity dates.  I leave him in
good hands when I leave him with Burke,
and pass to Shelly.  Had his rich, rare and
beautiful mind been anchored on "the rock
of ages"--could he have been a disciple of
the Divine Founder of universal love and
charity, which he made the basis of his 
teachings--then indeed would he have been
a planet in the poetical hemisphere--but
alas! he worshipped an ignus fatuus of his
own loving and beautiful mind, which re-
sembled a goodly vessel tossed on the rough
water of a tempestuous ocean without chart
or compass, and so was wrecked--I will not
say lost—for his life was one search after
truth and love, and such shall find, though
the road they stumble over is dark and
thorny. His tragedy of "The Cenci" has
been highly applauded for the tact and re-
finement with which he treated so horrible
a subject.
	A celebrated authority has said, “When I
beheld the passive coolness of Beatrice in
the "Barbarian Palace," it seemed the pain-
ter had explained the ideal of his story.
But the Poet Shelly has surrounded it with
an interest surpassing the "Sinner's Art,'
and the tragedy should be read with the
picture in view. He advocated a dietectic
reform from a strange conviction that absti-
nence from spirituous liquors and animal
food, would do much to renovate the human
race.  Upon this idea his own habits were
based--he could not believe in the Christi-
anity of the day, and hence much of his 
young life was poisoned by the crudest per-
secution--he ever carried a pocket Bible,
about his person.  He was drowned with a 
friend in a squall off the Gulf of Spezzia--
and a Bible was found in his pocket.  The
bodies were afterwards burned according to
Shelly's request to his friend Byron to see
that it was done, should  be be the survivor.
	Leigh Hunt—Association with its thou-
sand whisperings, hang around this poet,
consequently he is a favorite--who that has
sipped from his "Jar of Honey, from Mount
Hybla" can ever forget him?  His father was
descended from a line of West India gen-
tlemen, and his mother from a Pennsyl-
vania Quaker; both of his parents were in-
tellectually disposed, and his mother was
partly won by her lover's fine readings of
the English Poets, which the son truly de-
scribes as a "noble kind of courtship." His
parents were poor, and his early days were
passed  in  family  embarrassments.  His
mother was a lover of books and nature, and
she encouraged her son's poetic and liter-
ary tendency;  she  treasured  his  early
rhymes, and carried them about her person,
showing  them  to  her  friends.  What an
influence this must have had on the poet's
early life, in confirming his devotion of
truth, his love of beauty, his superiority to
the world’s idols!  The discerning heart to
the mother applauded the juvenile efforts of
the son, and fostered by her approving love
that germ which coldness and apathy have
so often destroyed.  One word of scorn
from revered lips has a weight and a power
that has colored many an after life, and
turned into darkness the clear and beautiful
stream of the soul!  Let mothers note this
and apply it!  The habit of thinking for him-
self was a blessing he inherited from his par-
ents   He and his brother were the joint
proprietors of the "Examiner" and were
prosecuted for a libel on the Prince Regent.
They would not allow their parents to pay
the fine adjudged, and therefore they went
to prison.  He was in poor health at the
time, but he managed to fit up his room
charmingly, arrange a garden, read and
make verses, and receive visits from his
friends. One might almost envy him when
we think of the rare spirits that brightened
his confinement and brought a glorious feel-
ing to his better nature.  At the close of
one of his letters to Byron after his release,
he reverts to the kind surprise he and
others gave him, and closes by saying:--
-----  ------that frank surprise when Moore
and you came to my cage like warblers,
kind and true, and told me with your arts
of cordial crying how well I looked although
you thought me dying."  His ablest produc-
tion in "Rimini," and through all his writ
ings he exhibits a liberal and candid mind
and heart.  His influence is genial and
always refreshing.
	Byron.—Three thousand copies of Bryon's
poems are sold annually.  "My dear sir,"
said Dr. Johnson, "clear your mind of cant."
This process is essential to a right appreci-
ation of Byron.  No one ever more com-
pletely "wore his heart upon his sleeve,"
and no heart was ever more thoroughly
pecked at by the daws.  The same frank-
ness and freedom that marked his life, are
evident in his productions, and those who-
whine about the danger in reading Byron,
I should fear to trust amid the moral expos-
ure of their surroundings.  There can scarce-
ly be found a book more melancholy, and.
more moral then ''Moore's Life of Byron."
There we see the struggle of a gifted spirit,
between good and evil.
	There are many minute strings that form
the chords of a beautiful instrument, and
all these must be drawn only to a proper
tension, to render the whole harmonious.
Byron was one of those finely organized
beings, possessing all the material for form-
ing one of the best, and noblest of human
characters.  But alas! he fell into the hands
of a weak, ignorant, superstitious mother,
without any one to counter-balance her in-
judicious influence--who one moment
would effeminate him with her foolish fond-
uess and the next, spurn him as "a lame
brat."  These small but cruel words must
have sunk deep into such a soul as he pos-
sessed, even as a child; indeed, they are
said to have produced, years after, that
powerful drama, "The Deformed Trans-
formed."  And did she not, by such pas-
sionate treatment, lay the foundation of the
bitterness displayed occasionally in his
after life?  Yes, upon such an exquisitely
sensitive temperameht they were sufficient
to convert the very strings of life into the
“waters of Marah," what might not have
been, had he fallen into the atmosphere of
an enlightened, affectionate but decided
character,one who would not have attempt-
ed to crush his volcanic nature, but have
taught him to hold in his impetuous pas-
sions with the reins of reason and religion.
With such a heart as he is allowed, by all
who knew him to have possessed in child-
hood and youth, so warm, so generous, so
expansive and so exquisitely devotional,
would he not in judicious hands, have be-
come a happy man? noble in nature as in
birth? Yet with all the material for hap-
piness he never attained it; and I believe
from improper training, early perversion,
ete cet ra.  Had it been otherwise,England
would have hailed him as one of her no-
blest sons as he stands to-day one of her
noblest poets; one of her brigitest patriots,
one of her principal men, and a man of
principle. But let him be judged from his
own works righteously, take his "Childe
Harold," open the book promiscuously, and
out of that let the verdict be given.  Words
are vain things often in such a case.  3, 000
copies sold annually,  tell  the  tale.  Man
sees the deed, God the circumstance.
Judge not that ye be not judged.


MISS MAUDE HOWE, d[-]ughter of Mrs.
Julia Ward Howe, recently took the 
character of Aspasia in a tableaux at Rome.
Ristori robed her and Castellani lent her
some almost priceless jewelery, which he
has just sold to the British Museum.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

HYRUM, Cache Co., May 16th, 1879.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The annual meeting of the Relief Society
of Hyrum, was held May 9th, at 10 a. m., 
Mrs. C. Liljenquest, President. On the
stand were Bishop O. N. Liljenquest and
Counselor J. McBride, Elders Shawn and
Johnson. After the usual exercises and 
reading of minutes, the Financial Report
was read as follows:

RECEIPTS.

Donations received since Aug. '78, $379.85
Income from R. S. Store, etc.,		  84.14
								———
						Total,	463.99

DISBURSEMENTS.

To Logan Temple, 			      $213.19
Donated to missionaries,			   41.09
Expenses to build granary, and
	sundry expenses,			   74.03
Given to the needy,				   25.50
Paid on debt for R. S. House,		 111.90
								  ———
							Total, 465.71
	Property on hand, $695.18.
	Grain stored, 337 bushels, 44 pounds.
	After the reading of the report, the agent
for the WOMAN'S EXPONENT spoke in be-
half of the Paper and urged the sisters to 
sustain it; said every sister should take it,
and read it.
	Sister F. Stevens, President of Teachers'
Quorum, reported the Teachers and majority
of the members in the line of their duty.
	Sister Johnson, Superintendent R. S.
Store, invited the sisters to sustain our
home industry; especially our hats, and not
buy imported one.
	Sister Williams and Wilson reported
our sewing committee as all active members,
and striving for the interest of Zion.
	President Liljenquest felt to bless the
sisters for their zeal in carrying out counsel;
and gave very good instructions.
	Bishop Liljenquest spoke with great
power; felt to bless every faithful and true
Saint; said the Relief Society does a great
deal of good; each one must work for her
own salvation.
	Counselor J. McBride followed with many
good instructions.
	Several other brethren and sisters made
remarks. It was motioned and carried
unanimously that we sustain our officers as
they stand.
	Meeting adjourned by singing, and bene-
diction by Bishop O. N. Liljenquest.
	After meeting the majority of brethren
and sisters adjourned to the R. S. Store,
where a bounteous dinner was prepared and
served, under the management of Sister
Johnson, to whom great credit is due. The
sick and aged were also remembered and
received a portion of the good things pre-
pared.
		Respectfully,
			M. M. NIELSEN, Secretary.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	Conference of Relief Societies of Utah
Stake of Zion, held in Meeting House,
Provo City, May 30th, 1879.
	Meeting opened by singing and prayer.
Present on the stand, President M. T. Smoot
and Counselors, Secretary and Cor. Secretary.
Minutes of last Conference were read and
accepted, after which the reports for the last
quarter were read by the Secretary, show-
ing the satistical and financial condition of
the wards in the City, and also the various


wards throughout the county. After the
reading of the reports, Prest. M. T. Smoot
called-on the different presidents of the
county for a verbal report of each society,
which was given, showing a good spirit and
a feeling of unity existing among the sisters
of Utah County. As the Silk Association
were to meet in the afternoon, the meeting
was adjourned till 7 p. m.
	Evening Session opened by singing and
prayer. Sister Smoot said we have met
to continue our meeting as a Stake Con-
ference; and we are blessed with the com-
pany of our beloved Sister E. R. Snow, and
will hear from her. Sister Snow spoke of
the duties of the sisters of the Relief
Societies; the great good they can do in
various ways, in helping the needy and
strengthening the hands of the brethren;
spoke on silk-culture and other home in-
dustries, straw manufacturing, etc.; she ex-
horted the sisters to be humble and prayer-
ful, doing their duty in all things, that they
might be saved in the Kingdom of God.
Bishop Halladay made a few closing re-
marks, after which the Conference ad-
journed for three months.
	Statistical and Financial report for the
Quarter,—Members, 1,740; teachers, 270;
meetings held, 117; average attendance,
525; Church papers, 251; Exponent. 104.
Total receipts, $716.73. Disbursements:
To poor, $227.62; to Temple, $79.25; home
industries, $91.43; books, $12.60; buildings,
$156.00; sundry disbursments, $41.00; P. E.
Fund, $41.50. On hand in Cash and Proper-
ty in Co-op. Stores, Factory, etc., Cash,
$158.73; Property, $7,955.95; Wheat, 1,428 
bushels, and 20 pounds.
	MRS. M. T. SMOOT, President,
		MRS. C. DANIELS, Secretary.


[Column 1]
LITERARY WORK FOR YOUNG
LADIES.

SALT LAKE CITY, JUNE 17th. 1879.
EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We have edited a paper in the "Young
Ladies Association" of the 19th Ward, four
years the 27th of May last. The name of
the paper is "Young Ladies Thoughts." It
is edited monthly by the different mem-
bers, and contributed to by the same; con-
tains original essays and selections, being
principally upon religious subjects.
		Respectfully, R. J. Noall.
	Secr'y of "Young Ladies Association" of
the 19th Ward.

EAST MILL CREEK WARD, JUNE 15th '79.

	EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We have a paper in our Society called
"The Ladies Garland." It has been edited
since May the 11th, 1879. It is issued once
in two weeks. The character of its arti-
cles, is moral. F. M. Neff is editor, and
M. M. Fisher assistant. The regular con-
tributors are mostly members of the Asso-
ciation with a few exceptions. Mrs. Mar-
garett P. Young, of Salt Lake City, has fav-
ored us with several very interesting
pieces.
			From Your Friend
		H.S. Stillman, Sec'y.

		GOSHEN Valley, June 21st, 1879.

	EDITOR EXPONENT:

	In answer to your notice to the Y. L. M.
I. A. in the EXPONENT of June the 1st, I
subjoin the following.
	We edit a paper, its title "The Gem." It
was first edited June the 30th 1876. It is
a semi-monthly paper. The chartcter of its

[Column 2]
articles is essays, an editorial, selected poe-
try, composed by one of the counselors who
edited it first for six months; since then the
most competent of our young ladies have
edited and the members contributed to it
as also the president and her counselors
and occasionally a senior sister.
		I remain your sister in the Gospel.
						M. A. Till, Sec'y,

				FAIRVIEW, MAY 16th 1879.

	EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The Young Ladies Mutual Improvement
Association meets every Friday. At every
other meeting we have the following pro-
gramme.
	Reading in the Book of Mormon, select
reading, prose and poetry, and essays. We
also edit a paper semi-monthly called the
"Young Ladies Companion." We take a
copy of the EXPONENT which is read in
our meetings with great interest. The
young ladies speak and bear testimony to
the Gospel.
	During the winter we met in joint ses-
sion with the young men, at which times
we all enjoyed the spirit of the Lord. We
meet twice a month and have sewing be-
sides meeting. We intend putting some
quilts in for the Manti-Temple.
	This spring we have sixty-seven names
enrolled, and have a good average attend-
ance considering the size of our settlement.
	Wishing success to your valuable paper,
we remain your sisters in the gospel,
				Mrs. Julia Rigby, Pres't
				Miss Ella Wilson, Sec'y.

						JUNE 20th 1879.
	EDITOR EXPONENT:

		We, the Young Ladies Improvement
Association of the 8th Ward edit a paper
called "The Amateur."
	The first paper was edited Nov. 29th '78
by Annie Lynch and Sarah Hawkins.
	At every fourth meeting the paper is
read and the editors chosen to edit the next
paper, among whom are Abbe R. Slater,
Sarah Barney and Libbie Sheets. The ar-
ticles are essays on different subjects, orig-
inal poetry and a few selections.
	A. R. Slater, Esther Fletcher, Rose Need-
ham, Eliza Snell, Emily Berry, A. Howard,
Annie Lynch, Sarah Hawkins, J. Connelly,
M. Palmer S. H Leaver, R. Chamberlain
are among the contributors.
	Since we have edited our paper more in-
terest is taken in literary pursuits.
					Sarah Hawkins, Sec'y.


MOTES AND NEWS.

	A TRACT is in circulation, showing that
in the United States alone $700,000,000 are
expended for liquor, and only $95,000,000
for education.
	A LADY has been admitted to the prac-
tice of law in the Supreme Court of Cal-
ifornia, Mrs. Mary Josephine Young, of
Sacramento. It is said "she passed the ex-
amination with credit."
	THE WOMEN of Massachuetts have suc-
ceeded in obtaining the privilege of voting
on school committees. The law in that
State requires registration. Meetings have
been held to consider their duties as voters;
speaches made on the subject, etc.
	MRS. PRESIDENT HAYES, on Decoration
Day, placed on the "unknown" tomb on
Arlington Heights, an elegant placque of
flowers, and sent  150 bouquets to the
cemetery.  The President himself placed a
lovely wreath of choice flowers on the top
of the column.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ADDRESS
TO BISHOP HUNTER ON HIS 86th BIRTHDAY.

Servant of God! the return of this day
Inspirs my heart to compose a brief  lay.
May the spirit of God shed its sacred fire
Through every chord I may strike on my lyre!
That the song to thy heart may be gleeful and good,
And bring to thy spirit a comforting mood;
For I, and my sisters unitedly pray
That the smile of our God may surround you this day;
That within this kind circle your heart may rejoice,
For blessings are for you from every voice.

Long years have you spent in the kingdom of God
And with others you too, have passed "under the rod,"
But your robe is all spotless, your hands they are clean,
You have meekly moved on thro' each varying scene;
The smile of your God has been on you each day,
And his hand has led you along the rough way;
And may you possess all we crave for thee,
Then prosperous, and happy, and blest you will be;
And the Star of your destiny never will set
Till a full blaze of glory thy vision has met!
Then they name thro' the ranks of the blessed shall ring,
And crown thy High Priesthood with the title of king-
King and Priest unto God! thou shalt ever remain,
And govern the kingdom thy Priesthood shall gain;
And all that you've loved on this earth shall be found,
As spirits to minister blessings around;
Standing close to thy thrcne they desire to be
Witb all the dear loved ones, that now surround thee.
Need more to be told, or need more to be said
Than we now summon down on thy venerable head?
No! Close up the scene, I can no longer gaze
Our God, to thy Name be all honor and praise.
								HANNAH T. KING.


[Column 1]
LETTER FROM MRS. STANTON
TO MRS GAGE. 

					CHICAGO, May 15th.
	DEAR FRIEND:

	I reached the St. Louis Convention at the
last moment, and was sorry to find that you
and Olympia Brown had just gone. How-
ever I was in time to make a short speech,
preside for two hours, and witness one of
the most touching incidents that ever oc-
curred on our platform.
	The ladies of the convention, delegates
from many different states, presented our
dear friend, Susan B. Anthony two beauti-
ful baskets of flowers, in the presence of
the immense audience which had gathered
through all the long sessions for three days.
	Mrs. May W. Thompson of Indianapolis,
in presenting the flowers, referred in the
most happy way, to Miss Anthony's unsel-
fish and untiring devotion to all the unpop-
ular reforms, through long years of pitiless
persecution and ridicule, and thanked her
in behalf of the young womanhood of the
nation, that their path had been made
smoother by her brave life. Our Susan
was so overcome with the delicate compli-
ments offered her, and the fragrant flowers
at her feet, that for a moment she could find
no words to to express her appreciation of
the unexpected acknowledgement of what
all American women do, indeed, owe her.
	As she stood before that hushed audience,
her silence was more eloquent than words,
for her emotion was shared by all. With
an effort she at last said: "Friends, I have
no words to express my gratitude for this
marked attention. I have so long been the
target for the criticism and ridicule of our
cause, I am so unused to praise and com-
pliment, that I stand before you surprised
and disarmed. If any one had come on
this platform and abused all womankind,
called me hard names, ridiculed onr argu-
ments or denied the justice of our de-
mands, I should with readiness and confi-
dence have rushed to the defense; but my
Quaker education unfits me to make any
appropriate reply for this offering of elo-
quent words and flowers, and I shall not
attempt it."
	Being advertised as the speaker of the

[Column 2]
evening, she at once began her address, and
as that grand woman stood there and
made an argument worthy a Senator of the
United States, I recalled the infinite pa-
tience with which, for upwards of thirty
years, she had labored for educational re-
forms, temperance, anti-slavery and woman
suffrage, ridiculed by the press, arrested,
tried and fined for exercising an Ameri-
can citizen's right to vote; misrepresented
and ignored by women themselves, whose
rights she has struggled to secure, with an
earnestness and faithfulness worthy the
martyrs in the early days of the Christian
Church, I said to myself, verily the world
now as ever crucifies its saviors!
	Thanks to the untiring industry of Mrs.
Minor and Miss Couzins the convention was
in every way a success, morally, financially,
in crowded audiences, and in the fair, re-
spectful and complimentary tone of the
press. Looking over the proceedings and
resolutions, the thought struck me that the
National Suffrage Association is the only or-
ganization that has steadily maintained the
doctrine of Federal power, against state
rights.
	The great truths set forth in the 14th and
and 15th amendments, of the United States
supremacy, so clearly seen by us, seem to
be vague and dim to our leading statesmen
and judges, if we may judge by their
speeches and decisions. Your superb speech
on state rights, should be published in tract
form and scattered over this entire nation.
How can we ever have a homogeneous gov-
ernment solong as great universal principles
are bounded by state lines. I am home-
ward bound at last, after eight months of
continual speaking, having filled one hun-
dred and fifty engagements. The first of
June will find me once more on the blue
hills of Jersey. The prairies are beautiful
in their fresh spring grass and flowers, but
the valleys of the Mohawk and Hudson are
more to my taste. Perhaps it is well for
"the young man to go west," and grow up
with the country, but for women on the
shady side of sixty, whose eyes have al-
ways dwelt on rocks, trees, mountains hills
and rivers, the East must ever be more con-
genial.			As ever yours,
			ELIZABETH CADY STANDON.


THE GIRLS OF TO-DAY.

	The girls to whom these words are ad-
dressed, belong distinctly to this period in
the world's progress - girls who believe
that, as consumers of the results of toil, it
is their duty to contribute, by their works,
to the general fund; and who further be-
lieve that the amount of goods which they
are entitled to appropriate to themselves, is
only dependent upon their ability to hon-
estly procure such goods.
 A generation ago, girls like these had
only an existence as individuals.--' Scat-
tered here and there over the world there
have been girls' who shook themselves free
from the shackles of custom and precedent,
and have set boldly out to think their own
thoughts, and live their own lives, making
possible the way for less hardy followers;
but in social economy no allowance was
made for their existence. They were not
recognized  a class, nor looked upon with
favor as individuals. They gained much,
but they paid high rates for it.
 It was not thought indelicate or unfemi-
nine for her to marry a man who was per-
sonally repulsive to her, if he could support
her; or she might live in beggarly depen-
dence upon friends who could little afford
such expense; but a profession, was not to
be thought of a by a modest, properly in-
clined girl. A cultivated idiocy was held
to- be very sweet and Interesting; but it
was a hazardous thing for her to lay herself
llablo to the charge of "strong-mindedness."
	The scene is changed. The girl of to-day
looks out Upon a far-different field. Al-
ready the barriers of tough old ignorance
and conservatism have given way where
they seemed almost impervious; and the
time is close at hand when she may go
where she will, entering the lists “without
fear and without favor."
	In our country the advance of woman's
interests, has been marvellously rapid in
the last few years. During the civil war
the work that woman did, with head and
hands, won her a new place in the esteem
of the nation. Later, in the years of com-
mereial disaster and distress that followed
close upon the era of inflation and folly and
extravagance, she has developed a fortitude
and skill, a fulness of resource and strength
of character that have gained to her sex,
riches that shall never pass away.  It is
doubtful if, under other conditions, the wo-
man’s cause could have made such progress.
It was when those sad reverses came that
caused so many women to step out from
homes of luxury and refinement and look
about in the world—-the world they never
fairly saw before - for the means of earn-
ing sustenance for themselves, that the wo-
men of our land became known unto each
other, that the strong tendrils of love and
sympathy and fellowship were thrown out
that gathered up and knit together in
closer kinship that band of women that
stand to-day in the front ranks of arts and
sciences and industries of our country. It
is pretty safe to conclude that there never
will be such a collapse in the civilization of
the world as will relegate woman back into
the helpless dependency of the past. On
the contrary, it is more and more apparent
that idleness is not going to be considered
any more interesting or respectable in a wo-
man than in a man. A woman "without
visible means of support,” will be looked
upon askance by-and-by. So the girls wll
haye to keep their wits about them, or they
will be left in the lurch. Youth is the best
time for learning, and moreover, she who
waits for middle-life before taking up its re-
sponsibilities and possibilities, will have so
much to unlearn that her young rivals will
outstrip her.
	Having chosen & trade or profession, you
should leave far behind you all those petty
and foolish artificialities which prevent
men and women from having a fair, whole-
some business acquaintance with each
other. Never let considerations of sex en-
ter into your business relations with a man;
the only account he will make of it will be
to impose upon you it he can—a good man
will not consider it at all. If you meet
him with finesse, he will repay you with
gallantry, and drive a sharp bargain with
you after all. First inform yourself in the
promises, and then remember that common
sense and, honesty will yield the main
chance. Circumvention will be both un-
dignified and unprofitable. It was some
grim wit that perpetrated that venerable
humbug about feminine tact. For good,
substantial, opaque manoeuvering, there is
nothing like masculine acumen.
	Again, don't set out with any thought of
martyrdom. What the world now wants is
successful women - not martyrs. If you
can make for yourself a good business, and
take care of yourself, and do it well, you
will, by your example, contribute a good
gift to the common cause.
					ELEANOR M. LAWNEY.


20					WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

	THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,   - 	-	-	Editor.

   Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City, Utah.
		SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 1, 1879.


[Column 1]
	EXCURSION FOR THE OLD FOLKS.

	For several years it has been the custom to get
up an excursion annually for the old people of
this city and vicinity. Brother C. R. Savage was
the first man to inaugurate this movement,
sanctioned by Bishop Edward Hunter and El-
der George Goddard, and so it has come to be a
settled affair that the old folks have an “out”
every summer. This year, Bishop Edward
Hunter, Brothers George Goddard, C. R. Sav-
age, Wm. Eddington, Wm. Naylor, Wm. Bind-
er and John Kirkman were the untiring and
indefatigable committee of arrangements.
Everything seemed to be managed so system-
atically that there was no confusion compara-
tively in loading the eleven cars and caboose
almost exclusively with elderly people. The
morning was a delightful one—Tuesday, June
24th, and all the pleasure seekers, old and mid-
dle-aged, seemed in gala spirits.
	The cars left the depot at half-past 7, and as
the train sped along, the country looked posi-
tively charming, in the glory and beauty of the
regal robe of summer. The sunshine fell in a
beautiful shower of golden light on mountain,
valley and streams of water, and there was not
even a cloud to mar the beauty of the azure
sky. The company were greeted at the differ-
ent stations by the way, and Bishop Hunter
was presented, at one place, with a beautiful
bouquet, by a party of little girls.
	Arriving at American Fork, Bishop Harring-
ton, with about a hundred teams, was at the
station to convey the people to Bennie Brown's
grove, which had been prepared for the “old
folks' party.” The American Fork brass band,
led by Bro. William Grant, saluted the party
with the tune, “I'm Ninety-five, I'm Ninety-
five.” The stars and stripes were streaming
from the citizens' dwellings and ornamented
marshals of the day and the horses.
	An arch, formed of evergreens, was erected
on the road leading to the grove, over which a
banner was gracefully thrown, painted with
the inscription, “We welcome You,” the
Sunday School children in line on each side of
the road near it, greeting the party with songs
and shouts of welcome.
	The grove was a very large one, [-]nd had been
nicely prepared by the young gentlemen and
ladies of the Mutual Improvement Association
under the supervision of Bishop Wm. Paxman.
A platform had been made something like a
square bower, covered with boughs and deco-
rated with flowers and branches of evergr[-]en,
with a flag across the front. Here was a rustic
stand, table and benches for the convenience
of the committee, speakers, reporters and so on.
The first hours after arrival were devoted to
rest and refreshments; long rows of tables and
seats were arranged for picnic, and plenty of
cooking-stoves were on the ground, so that te[-]
and coffee could be served. Seventy gallons of

[Column 2]
milk were furnished for the occasion. The ex-
ercises commenced with music by the band,
then a prayer was offered by Bishop E. D.
Woolley, and a song composed expressly for
the occasion was sung by the Glee Club, music
by the string band. Elder C. W. Stayner com-
posed the words, Elder John Lewis the music.
Bishop Harrington then made a short address
of welcome, in a pleasing style.
	Bishop Hunter commenced by saying the ex-
cursion was far beyond what he had anticipat-
ed, referred to Brother Savage's efforts in a
very appreciative way, said that noble Savage
with a noble soul, he will yet be a God, noth-
ing short of it; he had been the first to suggest
those excursions, said that pleasure parties
were formed for all kinds except for the old
folks. Brother George Goddard had been un-
tiring and indefatigable in getting up these
parties and making them a success. After
some other remarks in regard to the good peo-
ple of american Fork and their energy in build-
ing up the place, he spoke of himself and his
early reminiscences, and said he remembered
the death of George Washington when a little
boy, and that it cast a gloom over the whole
country, even the children felt it. He mourn-
ed that the religious liberty his forefathers
fought for, and which many noble-minded and
liberal-hearted men had struggled to maintain,
had been denied to this people. He had
rejoiced in times past over the free-
dom and union of the United States, that Con-
stitution in which the glorious principle of
worshipping God according to the dictates of
one’s conscience was incorporated. Under this
Constitution God had raised up a people,
but he had lived to see these rights denied to
them; he had always maintained in his life
these principles of freedom. He spoke of the
future when the Saints would be able to obtain
this freedom, and extend the same to all de-
nominations. He spoke of his friends behind
the vail, in the most affectionate manner, and
exhorted the Saints to live their religion, and
blessed all present.
	Bishop George Halliday, of Santaquin, came
forward and said:
	Brothers, Sisters and Friends - I am highly
delighted to be with you to-day, and partici-
pate in your enjoyments. Although I am not
seventy years old yet, I have long since left the
scences of my boyhood and am gently descend-
ing the steep hill of life, I do not intend to oc-
cupy much of your time to-day, but feel to say
may God bless the aged and all those that in
any manner administer to their comfort or hap-
piness. I have a favor to ask from you all. It
is that no person will take exceptions or be
offended at the liberty that I may seem to take
for the few words that I have to offer. I wish
to direct them exclusively to the founder of the
feast, our Presiding Bishop, Brother Edward
Hunter.
	Bishop Hunter—Dear Brother: It is with
the highest admiration we witness your con-
tinued and unceasing efforts to do good to your
fellow men. The scene we behold here to-day
is one more that may be added to a long list of
others, wherein you have from your youth up,
both your means and your influence, en-
deavored to bless mankind by assisting with
your means those who were in distress, and
administering to the wants and comfort of the
poor and afflicted, and now endeavoring to
brighten and happify the declining days of the
aged. Be assured Brother Hunter, that while
you are endeavoring by works of faith and
labors of love, to make others happy, there are
thousands of your friends in the Territory and
elsewhere, that would be pleased to make you
feel happy also. And as a proof that my words

[Column 2]
are true, permit me, in the name of the good
Saints of Santaquin, Utah County, to offer you
this small present as a gift for your eighty-
sixth birthday, with your name age and office
engraved thereon, and beg you will accept the
same, not for its cost or material value, but as a
token of our high regard for you as a man, our
love for you as a brother and our respect and
veneration for you as the Presiding Bishop of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, and may the blessings of Almighty God
be showered down upon you to strengthen
your aged body  and comfort and happify your
heart, and although your body may decline
with age, may your mind and memory con-
tinue bright, vivid and youthful, is the wish
of your many friends. Amen.
	The cane was purchased at Joslyn & Park's
in this city, and was elegantly engraved. "Pre-
sented to Presiding Bishop E. Hunter, on his 
36th birthday, June 22d, 1879, by the Saints of
Santaquin."
	Bro. Goddard said: "All who feel like wish
ing Bishop Hunter many happy returns of the
day, say Amen. Brass band music. Song by
thirty little girls, dressed in white, “Greeting
Glee.” Smith's string band accompanied Fos-
ter's Glee Club in singing, “Oh, how brightly
breaks the morning.” The children then pre-
sented bouquets to Bishop Hunter, President D.
H. Wells, Sister E. R. Snow,and several of the
oldest ladies and gentlemen present. Brother
C. W. Stayner received a bouquet for compos-
ing the song for the old folks.
	President Wells made some remarks, in which
he exhorted the people not to lose their faith
and let the devil cheat them out of their salva-
tion, after a life of toil. God blesses all who are
true and faithful to their covenants. May God
bless you, one and all, Bishop Hunter, Bishop
Harrington and President Smoot. It is said,
let us have old men for counsel and young men
for war, but let us seek to have the principles
of freedom inculcated in our lives. Said his
grandfather had been a soldier in the Revolu-
tion, but he lived long enough to see American
citizens denied the liberty of worshipping God
according to the dictates of their own con-
sciences. He predicted that the time would
come when it would be an honor to be a “Mor-
mon.”
	Brother Goddard then called for the oldest
people present to come forward. The following
persons responded Wm. Wilding and Vienna
Jacques of this city, aged respectively 96 and
92, Ann Lee, of Provo, 90; Sarah Simons, 80;
Abagail Leonard, 84; Berrill Covington, Ogden,
75: John Manwill, Payson, 88; Rufus Abbott,
Payson, 95. Mary Shelley, 83 years old, had
worked in the mines of Scotland 40 years, and
crossed the plains with a handcart, received as
a gift a portrait of President John Taylor. The
oldest lady and oldest gentleman were present-
ed with an order for a handsome arm-chair.
Other prizes were given to James Shields, Patsy
Ann De Berry, Thomas Morris, Elizabeth Wil-
liams, John Manwill, the last named sang a
song. The Y. M. M. I. A. received as a prize,
“The Life of Brigham Young,” and the Young
Ladies of Y. L. M. I. A framed portraits of
President Taylor and Bishop Edward Hunter.
A variety of games were indulged in by
several of the old people, who manifested
considerable enthusiasm, and the win
ners received prizes. All who partici-
pated seemed delighted and a very merry
crowd watched the proceedings. The Italian
band amused the people with songs in the
language of “sweet Italia,” and discoursed mu-
sic soft and full of melody, with the guitar.
	There were quite a number of persons from
other settlements, and altogether it is thought


there were two thousand people on the grounds.
Many met with old friends whom they had not
seen for years, and probably there are many of
them who will never see each other again in
this life.
	The party left American Fork on the train
"all aboard" half-past five o'clock p. m. This
pleasant recreation for the old folks is a great
satisfaction to them, and will certainly call
down the blessing of heaven upon those who
contribute so much to the happiness of their
fellow creatures in their declining years.
	During the trip homeward, songs were sung
in each car by the Glee Club, and lemonade
and refreshments were being passed from one
car to another constantly, and everybody
enjoyed the affair to the utmost, by trying to
amuse, entertain and interest everybody else.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		21


[COLUMN 1]		
	HOME AFFAIRS.  

	RETURNED HOME—Mr. Don Carlos and Mr.
Feramorz L. Young, sons of the late President
Brigham Young, arrived home on Monday
evening, June 24, and Mr. W. G. Sharp, son of
Bishop John Sharp, arrived Thursday evening,
June 26, all in excellent health and spirits.
These young men graduated a few weeks since
at the Van Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, at
Troy, New York. We welcome them back,
and trust, with the education they have re-
ceived, and the fine natural abilities they pos-
sess, they may make life a complete success.
	ON SATURDAY and Sunday, June 14 and 15,
we attended the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of Tooele Stake, held at Grants-
vllle. Mrs. M. A. Hunter, President of the
R.S. of Tooele County, presiding. Sisters and
brethren too from the various settlements were
present. President F. M. Lyman, Bishop Tut-
tle of Tooele, and others from the different
precincts favored the sisters with their pres-
ence. Saturday afternoon the children of
Grantsville were organized into a Primary
Association. The instructions given at this
Conference by President Lyman, were very
encouraging to the sisters in that vicinity.
Miss E. R. Snow was also eloquent and earnest
in addressing the meetings, Mrs B. W. Smith
and other sisters contributed towards making
the conference an interesting one.
	WE ARE happy to announce the marriage of
our young relative, Mr. Junius F. Wells (Presi-
dent of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement
Associations,) to Miss Lena Fobes, of this city.
The marriage ceremony was performed by Pre-
sident D. H. Wells, father of the bridegroom,
in the Endowment House, Monday, June 16th,
at 5 o’clock p.m. A reception was given in the
evening at his father’s residence in the 12th
Ward, at which time were assembled all his
"aunt's, sisters and cousins," with a host of
other friends, who offered their fervent congra-
tulations. The happy pair were the recipients
alao of many useful and elegant presents.
	ON MONDAY, June 23d, another very brilliant
wedding was celebrated in this city. The
bride was Miss Jane Jennings, daughter of
Hon. Wm. Jennings, the bridegroom Mr. Jas.
A. Eldredge, son of Hon. Horace S. Eldredge.
President Taylor performed the ceremony, at
4 o’clock p.m., in the Endowment House. The
reception in honor of Miss Janie’s marriage, at
Devereux House, in the evening, was really
the most magnific[-]nt affair of the kind ever
celebrated in this city. To attempt a descrip-
tion of the elegance or enjoyment in one para-
graph is simply impossible. We offer our most
sincere and fervent congratulations to these
now voyagers on the matrimonial sea of life,

[COLUMN 2]
and trust the breezes may be favorable, and
should storms arise that the winds and waves
may at least be propitious.
	ON FRIDAY morning a party of ladies and
gentlemen left this city to be present at the
closing exercises of the B. Y. Academy at
Provo. Bishop O. F. Whitney, Professors J.
Toronto and J. Kingsbury of the Deseret Uni-
versity, James Dwyer, Esq., Miss Ada Dwyer,
Miss Keetle Heywood, and Miss Annie Wells,
were of the party. We regret we have not
space to give some account of the manner in
which the academy is conducted, under the
superior management of Prof. Carl G. Maeser,
with some gentlemen and ladies as assistants
in different departments. This school is very
highly recommended by all who have attended
and by all who have taken pains to examine
into the peculiar methods of teaching adopted
in the institution. 
	On Saturday morning a party of about fifty
of the teachers and students, including the
visitors from Salt Lake, started up Provo
Cañon, well supplied with pic-nic. From one
or two who participated in the trip we learn
that it was really most delightful, scenery
grand, beautiful flowers and shrubbery, clear
streams of water sparkling and rippling through
the valleys, and the waterfall exceeded in its
beauty the idea they had formed. They had a
feast of good things to eat, and a literary en-
tertainment of songs, speeches, recitations,
jokes and brilliant conversation. The visitors
from this city were extremely well pleased
with their visit to Provo and the people who
so agreeably entertained them.
	SINCE JUNE 15th number of the EXPONENT
was issued, our esteemed friend and Brother
Elder George Reynolds, has been committed
to prison in Lincoln, Nebraska. We had not
believed he would be imprisoned on account of
his being a test case brought forward purposely 
to decide a vexed question. Elder Reynolds,
implicitly believing as most of the Latter-day
Saints did, that the religious liberty granted
by the Constitution of the United States would
be his safeguard. We have no words to express
our feelings on this subject, having been im-
bued with the idea from childhood that in
America there was freedom and religious liber-
ty for all, of whatever color creed. We know
the Apostles and Elders were imprisoned for
their religion in Christ’s day, but that was not
under a free government. They rejoiced that
they were worthy to suffer. And so does our
good brother. He writes that his greatest dis-
appointment is in not being allowed pencil
and paper to scribble down his thoughts. 
	He says in a letter to his family, "my health
is good, I feel quite happy. * * *
God bless and comfort you all, be assured there
are many worse places than in prison for con-
science sake. It cannot take away the peace
which reigns in my heart. Repin[-] not, but
pray continually for yourselves and for me. Bro.
Reynolds speaks highly of the kindness of the of-
fficers who attended him East, and sends greet-
ing to all his old friends: those who desire.to
write to him: address Georgo Reynolds, Box C,
Lincoln, Nebraska. We hope we shall shortly
have some better news to publish on this sub-
ject, at any rate, we hope for his return to
Utah. We have heard that the Anti-Polygamy
ladies of this city have asked President Hayes
not to grant the pardon asked for Brother 
Reynold’s, but let him serve in the
penitenriary and that be not remanded to
the Utah penitentiary. We had understood
that the ladies of this Society had no wish to
have past offences punished, but to prevent any
action of this kind in the future. God forgive
them, they know not what they do, for what
they sow that also they must reap.

[COLUMN 3]
	THE RELIEF Society quarterly conference of
this stake of Zion, was held in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly rooms, J[-]ne the 20th and 21st.,
beginning at 10 o’clock a. m. June 20th Mrs.
M. I. Horne presiding. The first part of the
morning was occupied with reports from the
various branches of the Belief Society in this
county.  These reports represented each of
these organizations in good condition. Mrs.
Horne made a few brief remarks and Miss. E.
R. Snow then addressed the conference. 
	Afternoon session. The presidents of the
different societies in wards and settlements
each made a verbal report, all, of which were
very satisfactory. When they had finished
Miss E. R. Snow made a few appropriate re-
marks and the conference adjourned until next
Saturday. Mrs. Horne announced that the
next morning would be occupied by the Young
Ladies Association. 
	Saturday morning. The Young Ladies Con-
ference. Mrs. Louie Felt presiding in, absence
of the President Mrs. Mary Freeze. The re-
ports of the several Y. L. M. I. A. of the coun-
ty were read, and then each president made a
verbal report. Mrs. Louie Felt occupied a lit-
tle time also. Miss E. R. Snow, and then El-
der W. W. Taylor, by invitation, made a few
remarks. He explained the order of filling out
the forms for reports, and showed the impor-
tance of practicing habits of order in financial 
matters, which would, if necessary, enable the
sisters to assist their husbands in keeping their
accounts, for there was no one in whom he
would have more confidence in such matters
than his wifə; and if habits of order were
taught the young, by example as well as pre-
cept, a foundation would be laid in them for
true greatness. He showed the great import
ance of striving to benefit those surrounding
us with the blessings enjoyed by the faithful,
thus creating an influence in behalf of righte-
ousness in the midst of the Saints, that the
children of the Saints might not be led astray.
	Saturday afternoon. Mrs. M. I. Horne pre-
siding, was devoted principally to reports from
Primary Associations.  Miss. Maggie Freeze
read the written reports, after which Presidents
of Primaries in several wards reported verbally.
Mrs. M. T. Horne made some remarks upon the
discipline and management of children, the
necessity of teaching them faith and a knowl-
edge of principle. Mrs. Zina D. Young, M[-]s.
S. M. Kimball, Miss E; R. Snow all spoke
upon the necessity of training the children in
the nurture and admonition of the Lord,
and expressed their pleasure in these organiza-
tions of the little children, and their belief
that through this spiritual training all would
come to a knowledge of the Lord from the
least unto the greatest. Pres. E. R. Snow
said that perhaps at the general meeting two
weeks from that day, they might organize the
P[--]mary Association in a stake capacity, and
wanted a full attendance of the sisters on that
occasion. Conference adjourned until Sept.
next 26th and 27th.


THE BOSTON "Woman’s Journal" May 31,
contains another of Mrs. Julia Ward Howe's
attractive letters written from abroad. It
is dated Paris, May 10. Mrs. Howe's let-
ters are charming, and would make a valu-
able book. There are many books of travel
that are wanting in that peculiar quality
that would make them really useful and
inspiring. Such books are dry and unen-
tertaining, because of the style in which
they are written. Mrs. Howe's letters from
abroad would, we believe, find ready sale,
not only on account of their real merit, but
her intelligent and happy manner of de-
scription of places and people, also her ad-
mirable power of expressing what she sees
and feels.


22		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
DEMONSTRATION

IN HONOR OF BISHOP HUNTER.

	Sunday, June the 22nd, was the 86th
annniversary of the birthday of Bishop Ed-
ward Hunter. The officers of the Relief
Society of this City, wishing to express
their respect for him, and their apprecia-
tion of his magnanimous labors in the in-
terest of the poor and unfortunate, in which
capacity they also labor, in connection with
the Bishops, arranged to give him a sur-
prise party, rather in the character of a lit-
erary entertainment, on Monday, June 23rd.
	Learning afterwards that it was the 80th
anniversary of the birth-day of Dr. J. M.
Bernhisel, it was decided it should be a sur-
prise to both. The party convened in the
Seventeenth Ward assembly rooms at 2
o’clock p. m. Monday the 23rd. There
were present, besides officers of the Relief
Society, Presiding Bishop Edward Hunter
and Mrs. Suzanne Hunter, President John
Taylor and Mrs. Sophia Taylor, Elder Joseph
F. Smith and Mrs. Sarah E. Richards
Smith, Elder F. D. Richards and Mrs. Jane
S. Richards, Counselor D. H. Wells and
Mrs. Susan H. Wells, Pres. Angus M. Can-
non and Mrs. Amanda Cannon, Bishop L.
W. Hardy and Mrs. Sophia Hardy, Bishop
R. T. Burton and Mrs. Maria Burton, Elder
George Goddard and Mrs. Mary S. Goddard,
Mrs. E. A. Whitney, Mrs. Maria Carrington,
Mrs. Sarah D. Rich and Mrs. Phebe Wood-
ruff.
	The entertaiument opened by singing, "O
ye mountains high.” Prayer by Elder
Joseph F. Smith, then the choir sang "Auld
Lang Syne" which re-awakened in the
hearts of those present, recollections al-
most buried in the past. Miss E. R. Snow
then read a poem written for the occasion,
and addressed to the Bishop, which we pub-
lish on the first page.
	Elder Joseph F. Smith then made a short
speech, in which he gave expression to his
feelings in regard to the arduous labors of
the Bishop. Mrs. M. I. Horne gave an im-
promptu address and alluded to the days of
the Prophet Joseph and the priesthood and
blessings conferred upon women at that
time. Mrs. S. M. Kimball then read the
following address, composed in honor of the
veteran Bishop.
	Reverend Father:
	This assembly necessarily consists of only
a few of the many friends who appreciate
your long and useful life, which has been
devoted to God and humanity.
	Like Adam, you have been a granger, a
tiller of the soil, earning your bread by the
sweat of your brow.
	Like Abraham, you have tended the
flocks of the field; like him you have
taught righteousness and are an honored
leader among the children of promise.
	You have your probation in the dispen-
sation of the fullness of times, when God
will gather His obedient children into one
grand harmonious family, where each, un-
derstanding correct principles, will be self-
governing, and peace will reign in all the
borders. The members of this family may
enter the divine presence of the Father
and Mother God with the scales of their
mortal eyes unclasped and their percep-
tions revivified.
	Then worthy father, you will in fullness,
reap the just reward of yonr husbandry,
gather your flocks into fat pastures on your
everlasting inheritance, and give dominion
and power to the righteous of your own
house, subordinate to the eternal scepter
which through faithfulness you have re-

[Column 2]
ceived by promises as sacred as those made
to Abraham.
	Before the final adjustment of rights and
ceremonies is fully consummated, a Grand
Assembly will convene, which will be pre-
sided over by Father Adam, the Ancient
of Days.
	Among the honorable members of this
convention will be Noah, Abraham and
Joseph, the Prophet of the last days, with
many others, including Edward Hunter,
whom on this occasion we delight to honor.
	We understand that the Grand Assembly
referred to, shall be preparatory to, and fol-
lowed by the long predicted, and long an-
ticipated Marriage Supper of the Lamb.
	It is our fervent desire that all present
on this memorable occasion, may be counted
worthy to participate with you, our illus-
trious father, in the glory and happiness of
that “feast” of “feasts,” until which time,
to our much honored, Presiding Bishop in
Zion, we mutually say “The Lord be with
thee.”
	Bishop Hunter then responded to those
manifestations of respect to him; alluded
briefly to his association with the Prophet
Josoph, his pleasant intercourse with Pres.
Brigham Young and subsequently with
Pres. John Taylor. He said, what can a
man do more than to face death for his
friend, this Pres. Taylor has done. He
then referred briefly to the organization of
the Relief Society, and the great amount
of good which had resulted from these So-
cieties; and the positive and apparent re-
sults which had been known.
	Bishop L. W. Hardy, counselor to Bishop
Hunter, made a speech, in which he said
he had been intimately associated with
Bishop Hunter as his counselor for more
than tweuty years, and there had never
been an ill-feeling or an unpleasant word
between them.
	Mrs. H. T. King then read a poem writ-
ten expressly for the party, published on
the third page.
	Col. R. T. Burton then made a short but
thrilling speech, referring graphically to
the perilous days of Nauvoo. Mrs. E B. Wells
then read a poem addressed to the Bishsp,
which will be published July 15th.
	Elder George Goddard then gave this
brief sketch of Bishop Hunter’s life:
	A brief narration of facts in the history
of Edward Hunter, Presiding Bishop of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day
Saints, suggested by the 86th anniversary
of his birthday, on Sunday, June 22d, 1879.
	Edward Hunter was born in Newtown
Township, Delaware Co., Pa., on the 22d of
June, 1793, where he remained 35 years,
and then moved to Chester Co., Pa., in 1828;
after remaining there a number of years,
and though not a member of any religious
society, he entertained the highest respect
towards all professors of religion, being
taught liberal and enlightened princi-
ple when a boy by his father; he was a
farmer and stock raiser, and having leased
a piece of land for a Meeting House for 99
years, for the use and benefit of all denomina-
tional preachers, no matter what their creed;
in the course of time the Mormon Elders
came along, traveling without purse or
scrip, and as true to nature as also to his
creed, he opened his house and made them
welcome with food, clothing and money;
also the privilege of preaching in the
School House, though much opposed by the
trustees; but knowing the broad and liberal
principles upon which the lease was based—
for religious purposes—he was determined
to maintain them at all hazards.
	In November, 1840, he was baptized as a
member in the Church of Jesus Christ of

[Column 3]
Latter-Day Saints, by Elder Orson Hyde,
and the following year, 1841, he visited
Nauvoo to transact business with the Pro-
phet Joseph Smith, having formed a slight
acquaintance with him a short time before.
While there he purchased considerable
property, and in September he was or-
dained an Elder, by revelation, under the
hands of the Patriarch of the Church,
Hyrum Smith. About this time he was
commissioned by Governor Carlin as Herald
and Armor Bearer to General Joseph Smith,
which office he held to the day of Joseph’s
martyrdom. He returned to his home in
Chester Co., and in 1842 moved with his
family to Nauvoo. In 1843 he was elected
a member of the city council, which office
he held until the death of the Prophet,
June 27th, 1844. In the fall of 1844 he
was ordained a High Priest, and shortly af-
terwards a Bishop over the 5th Ward.
Here he remained until the summer of
1846, when he left and traveled to Winter
Quarters, now called Florence, near Omaha,
on the Iowa side of the Missouri River, re-
maining there through the winter until
spring. He was the first man whom Presi-
dent Brigham Young made mention of to
take charge of one of the first companies of
100 wagons, and start for the Rocky Moun-
tains and settle in this western region of
country; several companies of the same size
started on the plains that spring, from Win-
ter Quarters, and Elders P. P. Pratt and
John Taylor presided over the entire emi-
gration of that season. Bishop Hunter’s
company reached Salt Lake City, Sept. 30th,
1847, and he was appointed in October,
1849, to return to Nauvoo, having with him
between $5,000 and $6,000, being raised on
purpose to emigrate the poor from that place.
In this undertaking he was greatly blest
and prospered, not only in the purchase of
cattle, etc., for the general outfit, but
throughout the entire enterprise, giving
great satisfaction to those who had called
upon him to undertake it. His company
left the Missouri River in July, and reached
this City in October, 1850. Newel K.
Whitney, who had been Presiding Bishop
of the Church for many years, died on the
23d of Sept., 1850, and at the following
April Conference, 1851, Edward Hunter
was appointed, by unanimous vote, as his
successor, and one year from that date, at
the April Conference, he was ordained and
set apart as the Presiding Bishop of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
by Elders H. C. Kimball aud Willard Rich-
ards, which office he still holds, making a
period of twenty-eight years last April;
and during that time he has been present
at and presided over 379 meetings of the
Bishopric in this city.
	He still retains much mental and physical
vigor, enjoying excellent health, takes great
comfort in the use of the pen, and writes a
great deal; his writing is known through-
out the Territory, and is very difficult to
imitate. He possesses many eccentricities,
yet there is no man in the whole communi-
ty of Latter-day Saints who stands higher
in their confidence and esteem than Bishop
Edward Hunter, and there is but one uni-
versal feeling and wish entertained towards
him on this the 86th year of his age, viz.:
May he live as long as he can be useful to
others and happy in himself.

	Sister Mercy R. Thompson then made a
few remarks and related some incidents of
the days of Nauvoo and her first acquaint-
ance with Bishop Hunter. Elder F. D.
Richards spoke quite pathetically of the
friends behind the vail, and said it would
not be long ere the Saints would have Jo-


[Column 1]
seph, Hyrum, Willard, Brigham, Heber and
others among them again.
	The choir then sang the anthem "Jerusa-
lem."
	Sister E. R. Snow said she regretted that
there had been a misunderstanding about
its being a mutual surprise to both Bishop
Hunter and Dr. Bernhisel; said it was ow-
ing to this that the honors had not been
equally divided.
	Pres. A. M. Cannon made some interest-
ing remarks upon Bishop Hunter's life;
spoke of his adapting himself to the people,
mingling with the poor and thus better un-
derstanding their wants and needs, and
knowing how to approach them; said when
quite young he had the opportunity of
speaking in the Bishop's native town, and
heard his old neighbors and friends speak
of his sacrifices (as they pleased to call
them) in leaving there to come west among
the "Mormons."
	Pres. Wells said this people were a great
deal more thought of and had more to be proud
of than if they had not been "Mormons;"
said Bishop Hunter was ten times the man he
would have been if he had not joined the
Church, and if he had not lived in the days
of Joseph; the Saints should be glad they
have the opportunity of proving their in-
tegrity before high heaven; when a man
has done good deeds he'll be rewarded for
it. It is the fate of the Latter-day Saints to
make some warm friends and a great many
bitter-enemies, but he that endures faithful
to the end will obtain the everlasting in-
heritance and crown of glory; said we came
into this existence to pass the ordeals and
prove whether we will be true to our integ-
rity; until we have proved ourselves the
Lord cannot bestow upon his people the
kingdoms of this world. Jesus had to pass
the ordeals, and prove himself worthy, be-
fore he could have the promise he should
be made ruler. He inquired what is a man
good for who betrays his trust?
	Pres. Taylor expressed his pleasure in
meeting with the sisters to commemorate
the birthday of Bishop Hunter and of Dr.
Bernhisel; he said we expect to live togeth-
er in time and in eternity, and all will be
well with the faithful, and as for the ene-
mies of the Saints, why should we care for
them? We intend to go on doing good, and
in the name of Israel's God will triumph:
the brethren in their place, and the sisters
in their places, and we shall have the bless-
ing of the Lord upon us. Amen.
	Bishop Hunter said the sisters would
have him exalted on the top of the topmost
throne, but he was not worthy half what
had been said of him; the sisters had done
a great deal of good through the Relief So-
ciety, and he appreciated their labors, espe-
cially among the poor and distressed, but
he was not half as good as they represented
him. 
	The choir sang "Joy to the world, the
Lord will come."
	Benediction by President Taylor.
	The party then repaired to the lower hall,
where tables were spread with a delicious
cold dinner, which was furnished by the
ladies of the party. The people were seat-
ed and Pres. Taylor pronounced the bless-
ing. During dinner the children of the
Primary Association, under the direction of
Sister Mary Jane Thompson, sang very
sweetly, with their clear, fresh young voi-
ces, which added greatly to the enjoyment.
Sister Thompson brought two very little or-
phan children forward to the head of the
table, where President Taylor and Bishop
Hunter were seated, and they sang very
nicely, "Jesus loves me." After the dinner

[Column 2]
was over Bishop Hunter was presented
with an Autograph Album, with his name
upon it in gold letters, and inside inscribed,
"Bishop Edward Hunter, Presiding Bishop
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints. This Album was presented on the
Eighty-sixth Anniversary of his Birthday,
at a Surprise Party given in his honor, in
the Seventeenth Ward Assembly Rooms, by
the Officers of the Relief Society of Salt
Lake City." This closed the programme.
	The whole affair was kept a profound
secret from Bishop Hunter, until the guests
had assembled to do him honor, then two
of the committee went to his house and in-
vited him to come; he refused, they per-
sisted, urged, coaxed, entreated, the Bishop
was annoyed, vexed, perplexed, obstinate,
making all manner of excuses, but at last
was persuaded, much against his will, to go
with them, he not knowing what was in
store for him.
	The party was a complete success, and
the sisters deserve great credit for the nice
manner in which all the arrangements were
conducted. Pres. E. R. Snow presided.
Sister Mercy R. Thompson was the first
mover in the affair, bnt she met with the
most enthusiastic co-operation from the
sisters, one and all. In conclusion we say, God
bless the Bishop of Bishops, the Friend of
the Faithful, the Father of the Poor; and
may his remaining days on earth be spent
in the same noble and useful manner as his
past life has been, giving wise counsel, ad-
monishing, instructing, blessing, cheering
and administering to all who need his care
and admonition, and when he shall pass
away, may it be "like one who wraps the
drapery of his couch about him and lies
down to pleasant dreams," and enter into
the world of Paradise, there to be reunited
with his beloved Ann, the wife of his youth,
the companion of his travels, and meet and
clasp hands with Joseph, Hyrum, Bishop
Whitney, and all the grand and illustrious
men and women with whom he associated
here.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		23


﻿RESOLUTION OF RESPECT.

	To the Officers of the Relief Society,
Twelfth Ward, Salt Lake City.
	The resignation of Sisters Priscilla Staines,
President of the Ladies' Relief Society of
the Twelfth Ward, Salt Lake City; Amanda
Smith and Emily P. Young, her Counselors;
Harriet Hardy, Secretary; and Sophia
Hardy, Treasurer, Officers of said Society,
having been tendered to Bishop Alexander
C. Pyper and his Counselors, John Druce
and Leonard G. Hardy, and accepted by
them, on account of ill health and infirm-
aties;
	Acting for a number of years past, with
an eye single to the special interest of the
poor and afflicted of the Ward, devoting
much of their time and means, as well as
the offerings of the Saints, in visiting and
administering to their necessities and re-
lieving their wants in their greatest times
of destitution; and becoming ANGELS OF
MERCY in assisting and consoling those
who lay sick and bowed down with sorrow
and affliction; and feeling no sacrifice too
great in holding out their generous hands
and exercising a godlike faith for these
benevolent objects,
	Therefore, the following action was taken
by a congregation of the Saints, assembled
in the Twelfth Ward School House, on Sun-
day Evening, the 15th day of June, 1879;
and,
	It was motioned by Bishop A. C. Pyper,
seconded by Counselor John Druce, and


unanimously carried by the assembled con-
gregation of the Ward:—That we tender
our thanks to our esteemed Sisters, the
President, her Counselors, the Secretary
and Treasurer; officers of the Ladies' Relief
Society of the Twelfth Ward; for their very
efficient, prompt and satisfactory services
rendered, in the performance of their ar-
duous duties and the sacred trusts com-
mitted unto them; and while regretting
their resignation and being deprived of
their valuable aid, to which a considerable
portion of their lives have been devoted,
we trust that they will at all times feel in
their future career, that their untiring labors
in the past, in relieving the necessities of
the poor and destitute of the Ward, will
live in the memories of those who are the
subjects of the munificence of the Saints, as
well as of themselves, to call down the bless-
ings of their Heavenly Father upon them.
Also, that a copy of this motion be furnished
to each of the retiring officers of the Ladies'
Relief Society, as a testimonial of these our
sentiments.
	Given under my hand this 17th day of
June, A. D. 1879.
		ROBERT CAMPBELL, Secretary,
On behalf of the 12th Ward, Salt Lake City.


THE FAIR.

	As we have hitherto briefly announced,
it is the intention of the Directors of the
D. A. & M. Society to hold another Fair
about next October in this city. The last
Fair was a decided success. It is intended
to make the coming one even more attrac-
tive. This can only be done by increased
exertion on the part of all those directly or
indirectly interested in the growth and de-
velopment of our thriving and promising
Utah. Among the list of premiums, which
will be duly published, is a long one desig-
nated "Ladies' work." This department
at the last Fair was a very interesting one,
and elicited great praise from the visitors.
In the coming exhibition the ladies of Utah,
without regard to creed or color, are ear-
nestly entreated to lend their ever ready
aid to make it attractive. The premiums
are so arranged that exhibitors will obtain
awards without being obliged to become
members of the Society, which has hitherto
cost $2.00. The awards will be numerous,
and as high as hitherto, and a small per
cent. only will be charged to successful
competitors. The Directors earnestly in-
vite the co-operation of the Relief Societies
and Young Ladies' Associations. They
promise more room and better general con-
ditions to the ladies' department than at
the last exposition. We will suggest tnat
it is not too early to commence preparations
for this labor, which we hope will be taken
hold of by the ladies with a vim and relish
inspired by the importance of the pleasing
task. Don't delay the commencement. In
due time the EXPONENT will have the list
for publication.
						A. M. MUSSER.
	Salt Lake City, June, 1879.


MRS. HILL, sister of W. W. Corcoran,
Esq., founder of the famous Gallery of Art in
Washington, died a few days ago. Mr.
Corcoran is widely known as a man of
great benevolence. When we were in Wash-
ington last winter we visited the Louise
Home, an institution founded by him for
educated and refined widows and ladies re-
duced to poverty in their declining years.
It was founded by request of his daughter
and bears her name.


24		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.

	DIED at Providence, Cache County, Utah,
June 4th, 1879, of congestion of the brain,
Helen Budge, the beloved wife of Wm. W.
Low, born April 2, 1831, in Lanarkshire, Scot-
land. Embraced the gospel in 1849, she came
to this Territory in 1868; she was an exemplary
member of the Church, she was the treasurer
of the Relief Society, and leaves a husband
and seven children to mourn her lost.

	At Providence, Cache County, Utah, June
8, 1879, of childbed fever, Freelove Miller, the
beloved wife of Milton D. Hammond, born July
24, 1845, in Hancock County, Ills., came to this
Territory with her parents in 1852. She had
the privilege to receive the holy ordinances of
the house of the Lord in the St. George temple.
She was a kind and loving wife and mother.
She accepted the principle of celestial marriage
and honored it by her exemplary life, and was
respected by all that knew her. She leaves
eight children, the youngest only eight days
old.

	DIED, in Pari[-], Bear Lake County, Idaho,
June 2d, 1879, Eliza A. Graves Rich, wife of
Apostle C. C. Rich, born June 3d, 1811, in
Concord, Essex County, Vermont. She was
truly a faithful Latter-day Saint and a firm be-
liever in all the principles of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. She emi-
grated to Utah with her husband and his fami-
ly in the first company that landed in this val-
ley. She endured many hardships, but was
never heard to murmur or complain. She was
the mother of three daughters, and had seven
grandchildren. The writer can truly say,
when Sister Eliza departed this life she lost a
true and faithful friend. May she rest in peace
until called forth with those that await the
First Resurrection, to be crowned with the
glory that she truly is worthy of, is the memoir
by her sister in the New and Everlasting Cove-
nant.						S. D. RICH.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. JULIA T. Landor, widow of the
poet Walter Savage Landor, died recently
at the Villa Landor in Florence in her
eighty-sixth year.—Ex.

	THE FIRST woman who has been admitted
as a member of the New Haven Medical
Society, is Amea Jackson Ferris, M. D.
The lady graduated at the Pennsylvania
Woman's Medical College.

	MRS. FANNY Holy, of St. Louis, has
written "a very fine article" for the Illinois
"Social Science Monthy," entitled "The
Mystic Element in George Eliot's writings."
Mrs. Holy is an earnest and successful
worker in the cause of suffrage for women.


PRIMARY PARTY.

	A pic-nic party was given to the Primary
Association, of Santaquin, May 10th, 1879;
according to the arrangement of the com-
mittee, the children all assembled at the
schoolhouse at 12 o'clock m., where they
partook of a pic-nic dinner, provided by the
parents of the children; Bishop Halladay
asked the blessing on the food. Ten boys
and ten girls recited the Ten Command-
ments, in concert, in a manner which re-
flected great credit on the Association, as
well as on themselves. Bishop Halladay,
Bro. Eli Openshaw, Bro. Wilsonholm and
Sister Mascham treated the children to re-
freshments, lemonade, candy and nuts, and
a card of merit was given to each child be-
fore they were dismissed. I believe that
the children will long remember that after-


noon's enjoyment, if I am a jndge of chil-
dren's happy faces.
	I take pleasure in saying we are progress-
ing well; we were kindly assisted in our
preparations by Bro. J. C. Stickney, Bro.
Marion Ewell and Bro. Nishonger, the
whole being presided over by President
Fanny Ewell, with her Counselors, Mrs.
Annie Swinson and Mrs. E. Carter, with
Superintendent Mrs. E. J. Stickney. Wish-
ing you success in your very valuable paper,
we beg to remain yours in the New and
Everlasting Covenant.
		FANNY EWELL, President.
		SYRENA HALLADAY, Secretary.
		E. CARTER, Ass't. Secretary.


THE JUNE uumber of the NATIONAL
CITIZEN and BALLOT BOX, contains a con-
densed yet perfect report of the Convention
at St. Louis May the 7th, 8th and 9th.
Copies can be obtained, five cents each by
sending to Mrs. Matilda Joslyn Gage, Edi-
tor, Syracuse, New York. This paper is the
organ of the Woman's Suffrage Association,
and advocates the cause of all women of
whatever color or creed. Each number is
freighted over with good words and good
news for women who are working for the
suffrage.
	We publish in this number Mrs. Stan-
ton's letter from the, June number of the
N. C. &B & B. It contains many good arti-
cles finely written, aud gives its readers a
correct idea of what women are doing to
elevate the sex in all parts of the world.


NOTICE.
AN experienced lady teacher is willing to give private
lessons in English branches, at her home or at the
hom[-]s of the students Further particulars to be had a
the office of the Woman's Exponent or address
RACHEL D. CARLOCK, Te[-]cher
	Box 31. Residence Rev. Mr. Longstreet, opposite Clift
Row.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR S[-]WING MACHINE.
IF not you should do so at nce, and examine the New
Ideas in [-]ewing Machine Construction The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable [-]n opera-
tion, runs very easily and w[-]thont [-]ny n[-]se a[-]d confu-
sion, although the rate of speed is very high Its self-
setting and self-threading hu[-]tle, and absence of springs
and co[-]srenders i[-] both simple and durable. Be sure to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend.
Victor Sewing Machine Co., Chicago, Ill.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, [-]alt Lake City.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	Has opened her Medical Class at her residence in the
13th Ward, two blocks and a half east of the Post Office
south side of the street, nearly opposite the Presbyterian
Chur[-]h.

	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responped to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

NEW SPRING STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots an[-] Shoos, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

[Column 2]
SOMETHING NEW--HOME-MADE.

Snell's Soap, warranted First Class,
					3 Bars for 25 Cents.
Harris' Soap,	-	-	3 Bars for 20 Cents.
Washboards, (Zinc)	-	-	- 35 Cents each
Brooms,	-	-	-	-	- 35 Cents each
A FULL STOCK OF YARNS, JEANS,
ALSO
Cassimeres $1.00 to $1.25 per Yard.
TRUNKS. Etc.
JOHN C. CUTLER,
Agent, Old Constitution Building.

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

NEW SPRING GOODS
ARRIVING DAILY,
IN THE LATEST NOVELTIES
Ladies' Bows in Silk and Lace. Ties a large
	variety. Collars, Cuffs and Ribbons, an ex-
	cellent variety. New Style. Dress Goods.
	And in fact everything you want in general
	merchandise. Conference visitors, call at

TEASDEL'S

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. [-]ash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
Salt Lake City.					97 Kimball Block.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,

	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Buil[-]ing,
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake :City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
