VOL. 8.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1879.	NO. 12.


[For the EXPONENT.
THE GRAIN QUEENS OF ZION.
			-----
Braving alike the skeptic's smile,
And the near friend's faltering faith;
Though wise ones doubt and foes revile,
With trust no tongue can scathe;
From the city's streets, and rural lanes,
They are gathering, side by side,
A band linked by faith’s sacred chains,
In one great cause allied.

Answering to the leader's call,
From their gentle homes they cane.
Taking the mission, one and all,
For love, and not for fame.
With willing hearts and empty hands,
Tte Father's aid they sought,
And bearing out the great command
A wond’rous work have wrought.

And they who sowed the tiny seed
In time of peaceful harvest years;
Shall see the bloom in time of need
Bedewed by grateful tears.
Let our land boast the world wide fame
Of her cotton and railroad Kings,
And toast in wine the princely name
Her gold and silver brings.

Kings of the coal and iron mines,
Each a mighty sceptre hold;
But the light of a rising power shines
Whose story shall be told.
Unto the far ends of the earth,
While stricken nations bend;
Weakened with war, and plague and death,
And own these as a friend.

Then, loyal daughters who obeyed
A noble leader’s word:
Ye shall come forth in power arrayed,
Named with the earth’s accord—
With blessings, from the lips of those
Saved by thy deeds of worth;
And reverence, from thy fallen foes;
The grain queens of the earth.

Then shall the gleaner’s hands, though brown,
Be blessed with truer praise;
Than those born to the ruler’s crown,
And idle royal days.
Power shall attend thy given word,
The poor may dare rely on;
And sweetest blessings ever heard,
Crown the grain queens of Zion.
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHEION
Nov 5th, 1879


[Column 1]
					For the EXPONENT.
THE SAME EDUCATION FOR YOUNG
MEN AND YOUNG LADIES.

	How often is it said, "My sons must re-
ceive a college education, but my daugh-
ters can learn sufficient at home." Yes, your
daughters can learn sufficient at home, and
so can your sons; but there is no reason
why your sons should be better acquainted
with the arts and sciences, and other things
pertaining to the development of the mind,
than your daughters. Give them equal ad-
vantages, and true genius will show itself;
or, if the family means will not allow all to
be educated alike, give the best opportu-
nity to the one most likely to profit by it.
If this example had been followed from
the beginning, the world would contain
more works of true merit and not half so
much rubbish.
	Oftentimes a bright, intelligent girl is
left without any advantages of education,
while her less intelligent brother has all
the spare means of the family expended in
his behalf. He never makes anything of
himself, because it isn't in him; she never

[Column 2]
becomes great, because she hasn't had an
opportunity. If a different course had been
taken with them, the girl would have been
a learned and perhaps great woman, and
the boy would have been equally as well off
as he is with his education.
	Some tell us that girls are to be mothers,
and should learn to keep house, and a girl's
home should be her world; "her duty is to
take care of it." Very true; and thus, as
boys are to be fathers, they should also reign
at home and make it their duties to take
care of these homes. Men are often
ashamed to take their wives with them
among learned people, because they are so
ignorant; and even if they do take them,
the wife seldom enjoys it, because she
knows nothing of what is going on. Yet
they love these wives, beacuse "they are
such excellent cooks, and have such sub-
missive dispositions;" but they do not love
them with the true, generous love of the
soul, that would be impossible, because
their tastes are different and they are not
equally matched. When boys attain their
majority, they feel that they know more
than their mothers do; they still love their
mothers with a natural filial love, but they
cease to come to them for help and counsel.
If girls were educated like boys, there
would be none of this. A man would be
prond to take his wife with him anywhere,
and would love to bring learned and noted
people to his house to meet her; he would
love to sit with her in the evening, when
the day's labor is done, reading their favor-
ite books, or discussing popular subjects.
Too often do we hear of a man spending his
evenings away from home, because there is
nothing there to interest him—no conge-
nial spirit; and no one likes to read and dis-
cuss subjects with himself. One needs a
companion in his joys as much as in his
sorrows.
	Some prefer a woman "who is pretty and
does not know too much"—Is it possible for
any one to know too much? Such a woman
dresses nicely and makes a very pretty
appearance at balls and theatres; she is
admired by all for her pretty face and art-
less ways but "distance lends enchant-
ment" she wont bear inspection. Her
eyes are a beautiful color but they lack the
clear intelligent light that should beam
from them. Her features are faultless, but
a certain insipid blankness dwells in that
face nevertheless, and if we were well
acquainted with her we should call her
shallow. No doubt this woman has spent
enough time waltzing to learn the French
language. Enough time gazing at herself
in the mirror and planning ways of im-
proving her looks to learn all the arts,
sciences and languages combined. Pray
what kind of a mother will such a woman
make? Can she teach her children any
thing?
	Then what kind of a mother would a
learned woman make? She can teach her
children every thing. She herself can lay
the foundation upon which their educations
will be built; and what a foundation: No
nonsense and trash joined together with
foolish ideas, but firm and solid learning
mixed with the purest mortar, a mothers
love. Mothers sometimes unconsciossly
lead their children into wrong paths and

[Column 3]
false ideas, simply because they know no
better. In ancient times the Roman moth-
era educated their children themselves un-
til they arrived at a certain age then they
were taken from them and placed in the
schools of learning. These mothers must
have been educated, else how could they
have done this? Is it possible that we are
degenerating? Is not education as necessary
now as ever? Yes and more so, for now
there are more people. Education of the
sexes ought necessarily to be equal, every
one admits that our boys must be educated,
I have endeavored to show why our girls
should be educated.
					[handwritten] A[---] W. C[---]
							CAMELIA.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	FAMINE—The distress in Hungary on
account of the bad harvest is very great.
In fifty-seven towns and villages in Temes
County the greatest distress prevails. In
Saros County, where some cases of starva-
tion have occurred, forty parishes are
threatened with famine. Frightful ac-
counts are also recieved from the counties
of Aravj, Heves and Zemplin.—Ex.
  	A CURIOUS PICTURE has just found its
way to England, a portrait of "David" by
his own hand; a fine sketch, which appears
to have been the study of the portrait now
in the Louvre. It was brought out of his
studio after the fall of Paris, by Bostopchine
(the same who when Governor of Moscow
set fire to that city.) His son sold it to the
late Senator Nicholas Smirnoff, whose heirs
mow mean to dispose of it.
	WASHINGTON, 11.—At the regular meet-
ing of the board of school trustees for this
district, to-night the question was settled
of the application of Mrs Belva A. Lockwood
and six other women for placing a woman
on the school board, which was first sent to
the President, and by him referred to the
attorney general, then to the district com-
missioners' school board. The latter
adopted a report, admitting that there is no
legal obstacle to women serving as members
of district school boards, but taking the
ground that there are grave objections as a
matter of policy, and that therefore the pa-
plication should be refused.
	THE SPANISH FLOOD—The details of the
flood at Murcia are harrowing. The inun-
dation passed over the enormous stone table
in which Alicante is inlaid, streamed
through its arches, its half-dark piazzas and
narrow streets, and wrought havoc only
second to that which ravaged the plains of
Murcia. Eight villages were swept away
and four partially flooded. Ten thousand
inhabitants and a hundred families are
destitute. The loss of property exceeds 50,
000, 000 francs. the total loss of life will
exceed 3,000. A terrific stormburst oc-
curred on Friday night Oct. 24, at Menagal-
bon, near Malaga. Forty houses were
flooded, two of which collapsed, and two
persons were drowned.—Ex.


RECKLESS of orthography, an impassioned
swain wrote: "Mary, I love the well!"  She
replied that she was glad he didn't drink
spirits.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


GOOD MANNERS
			    -----
	BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.
   In writing upon this subject a vast field
opens itself to view, but like the traveler
who sees so much he would like to gather
up in his travels, but reflects he will be
overladen and hindered, for here is a beauti-
ful valley to be explored, or yonder is a
waterfall; or some choice plants, or precious
minerals he would like to have for his
friends, yet he is aware that he must not
stop for every thing his eye meets, but only
try to “take in” all the best points on his
route, so it is with me—I wish to speak of
many things but find it will be impossible
to do so unless my chapters were much
longer and even then I doubt whether it
would be as well as to make short chapters.
We hear people talk a good deal about a
higher moral education, and with this there
must certainly be mingled more politeness,
more courtesy towards one another; men
and women would be more deferential to
each other if they were more tender and
forgiving. Qur tranquility, our peace of
mind, our happiness depends  even more
perhaps upon small things than upon great;
we all feel this at times and yet we are neg-
lectful of doing our part.
   It would be better for us all if more
attention were paid to the little details and
trivial observances, which distinguish
enlightened nations from the barbarous or
half-civilized and yet in many things we
are more or less boorish and rude, without
the excuse for neglect of these matters that
the really ignorant have; for we know these
things and do them not.  It is want of at-
tention and not lack of knowledge or ability
often that makes us negligent of our social
duties.  To those who feel deeply the need
of an improvement in manners, and in our
bearing towards one another, and particular-
ly at home, for there is where it must begin,
it would be well to keep in mind the precept
of SENECA, which translated is, "Speaking
to others, what you dictate here; and learn
yourself  while  teaching  you appear.”
Those who have occasion to speak and write
upon this subject may do it in a spirit and
feeling that will be benificial to themselves
as well as others who may read or hear and
this should be considered, that we are all
children comparatively, all desirous of at-
taining to something higher and better.
Selfishness is said by some to lie at the root
of all sin, and certainly selfishness is a great
hindrance to politeness, because “the first
law of politeness is to be agreeable to every-
body even at the expense  of one’s own
comfort.
   “Society has some arbitrary rules which
it imposes upon  its members and which
continually restrict them in  their  actions,
in telling them how they must eat, and
drink, and dress, and walk, and talk and
so on,all tending to one end,the preservation
of harmony, and the prevention of one
person from usurping the rights of another
*  *  *  If these laws regulate the tone of
your speech, and pronounce you vulgar if
you talk in a loud voice, it is because people
have nerves and sensibilities which are
grated upon by harsh tones.
    High moral characters, a polished educa-
tion, a perfect command of tempor, delicate
feeling, good habits, and a good society.
These constitute good breeding, and pro-
duce good manners.  Wit, accomplish-
ments, and social talents are great advan-
tages, though not absolutely necessary.  On
the other hand birth is often lost sight of;
while wealth rank and distinction, so far
from being desirable, must be carefulley
handled not to be positively objectionable.
   The best definition ever given of good
society is: the meeting on a footing of
equality and for the purpose of mutual en-
tertainment, of men or women, or of men
and women together, of good character,
good education and good breeding.  A feel-
ing of perfect equality is necessary to the
ease of society; and so well is this exempli-
fied in well-bred circles abroad, that men
belonging to the old nobility,possessing the
advantages of generations of transmitted
culture, will as a rule, be found to be more
affable and more genial than are the sons of
the newly made aristoracy.  It is only the
new people, here and there, who are climb-
ing up into notice, who are pretentious,
and fancy they can make themselves of
importance, by being rude or insolent,
where as all insolences show such a lack
of conscience as regards the rights of
others, such a lack of training as to
the binding obligations of the well-
bred, that it proclaims unmistakeably the
imperfect culture and real vulgarity that is
endeavoring to masquerade as elegance.
No one is entitled to respect who fails in
respect towards others.  Let  those  who
meet with rudeness take no notice of it.
Above all, do nothing from revenge; and
they will be able to console themselves
with the thought of their own superiority.
*  *  *  Certainly  the  well-bred,  of  all
others, should be  able  to  bear slights and
rudenesses with fortitude.  By so doing,
they give testimony to the value  of  early
training, evidence their own supirority and
set an example that  will  not be  lost  upon
those who are witnesses.
   The sham aristocracy indulge  in  mush-
room-manners.  But  true aristocracy  in-
dulge their admiration  for  genius, talent,
courage, perseverance and all heroic  quali-
ties but they never bow  before  titles simp-
ly because of their titles.”
   Politeness does not mean  friendship  not
in the least,  courtesy  is the  rule  of  good
society and people who have antipathies to
each other may meet on the neutral ground
of a friend’s house with the utmost courtecy.
Your host’s friends are yours  for the time
being.
   One thing which should be considered
in the cultivation of manners  is time.
Hurry and  bustle are antagonistic to grace
and ease of manner.  There is a great deal
of hurry hubbub and jostling in this day and
age which is a hindrance to “fine manners.”
A writer on this subject of politeness says
“The sense of his own superiority, in which
young America indulges, is apt to cause
him to look down with lofty contempt on
those old-fashioned ideas of courtesy and
good breding which our fathers bequeathed
to us.”


[Column 1]

READING.

	If I could, I would enumerate the advan-
tages arising from reading; however, as I
am fully conscious I have not the ability to
do justice to a subject so extensive in itself,
and so profuse in its bearing, I will not at-
tempt to define, or delineate, but will give
you a few of my own ideas relative to this
branch of education.
	By reading we learn to know ourselves
more thoroughly, which is one of the most
important attainments; we can judge of our
ideas, our capacities and our actions, by com-
paring them with those of others whose
lives are portrayed to us by the writer; we
can become acquainted (almost familiarly
so) with the character and lives of the great
men and women of the past ages, with the

[Column 2]

reputation they sustained among their co-
temporaries, also with the events which
were then transpiring, and the parts which
they performed in the transactions of the
day and age in which they lived; in what
way and manner, and by what means they
rose to eminence above their fellow-labor-
ers in the same cause, so as to forever im-
mortalize their names; and if noble and
laudable, we may strive to emulate those
excellent qualities which we so much ad-
mire in them, and which have been record-
ed for the benefit of future generations; or
if, on the contrary, through any lack of
knowledge, wisdom, or experience they
have failed to win the laurel for which they
were exerting their greatest energies, force
and skill, let us shun the weakness, vice
or error into which they were (perhaps un-
wittingly) led, and which we commiserate
in those who might otherwise have been
celebrated as heroes of their time.
	By reading we enlarge the circle of our
thoughts; we continually improve our con-
versation and the versatility of our lan-
guage; we enrich and expand our minds,
and all our ideas of cultivation and refine-
ment, become broader and more extended.
	We also become conversant with the dif-
ferent topics of the day, and make ourselves
familiar with the events transpiring under
our own immediate notice, or in the vicinity
in which we live, and in the circle of which
we form a part. Thus we live, not only in
the past, but more effectually and to a bet-
ter purpose in the present; and we draw
therefrom our own inferences and conclu-
sions, form our own opinions, and more
gracefully harmonize our theories and prac-
tices, with those of our cotemporaries, and
thus are better enabled to mark out our
own course of thought, or action, and dis-
tinguish ourselves in the pursuit of the
object we wish to achieve.
	Then again, we become acquainted with
the manners, habits, customs, &c., of other
nations, of which we would, perhaps, have
remained almost wholly in ignorance; of
the different varieties of government, reli-
gion and amusements, practised among
them; and through these sources of infor-
mation our minds are expanded, our views
of human nature enlarged, and our feelings
of benevolence for mankind in general
better developed.
	Reading opens up a field of instruction to
which there is no limit, and I am wholly
lost in the contemplation of the innumera-
ble resources it affords to the active mind;
it is one of the most delightful of solitary
or social entertainments; it enriches the
springs of thought, and helps us to procure
a fund of information which we may apply
for onr benefit in any and every emergency.
	Poetry is the very essence of reading,
inasmuch as it seasons every other kind; it
lends an infinite charm which harmonizes
with the most lofty and beautiful senti-
ments of the soul. Every person (in my
humble opinion) should intermingle poetry
with their reading; it blends in so perfectly
with that which is more solid, material and
practical, and very perceptibly purifies the
grosser elements of the mind.
	I have merely touched upon one or two
items connected with this illimitable sub-
ject; and I would sincerely beg to be judged
mercifully, as I have neither genius nor
ability to recommend me to your notice.


CUSTOMER—“What did you think of the
bishop’s sermon on Sunday, Mr. Wigsby?”
Hairdresser—“Well, really, sir, there
was a gent a sittin' in front o’ me as ’ad his
'air parted that crooked that I couldn't 'ear
a word!" - New York Graphic.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		91


[For the Exponent.
JERUSALEM. 

Jerusalem God’s chosen One,
Your hour of gloom is nearly done,
The curse of desolation drear
Atoned—the time to bless draws near.

The one that died upon the Tree,
Unto Jehovah pleads for thee:
Oh, scattered Israel hear the voice,
Of Christ, and let your hearts rejoice,

He's calling for his children home,
From every land wherein they roam,
From every Nation near and far,
From famine, pestilence and war.

What eye so blind that cannot see,
The promises of God to thee:
Thy doom, and thy redemption told,
By prophets in the days of old.

Methinks the heart of Judah must,
With one deep throb leap from the dust,
Shake off the slumber and the chains,
And shout the God of Israel reigns,

And gather back young men and old,
As mighty waves from Ocean rolled,
Bringing their wealth to build again,
Their temples and redeem the plain.

Thy daughters too shall ransomed be,
Beneath their one loved olive tree,
And strike again to joyous song
The Harp that's been unstrung so long.

Our Father, God to thee we pray,
Hasten the glad the promised day,
When Canaan's band shall Canaan's be,
And Zion be redeemed and free.
									HOPE.


CHARACTER SIXTH.
			         -----
		BY HANNAH T. KING.
				 -----
   The next picture my gallery presents is a
metaphysical sort of character, but I plead
guilty to some degree of favoritism with
regard to it!  Still, I ever desire to be im-
partial, for none ought to sit as a judge who
lack this God-like attribute.
   Here is a fine organization, tall and mus-
cular, sensitive and nervous almost to dis-
ease—but the moral stamina of the charac-
ter holds these ever with a commanding
will, and they are seldom apparent now.
The mental and physical blend harmoni-
ously, and hence produce a happy tempera-
me[-]t.  This character has had the schooling
of a full life, which has strengthened its
prudence and brightened its wisdom; it
has an intuitive knowledge of “people we
meet,” and of course of associates and
friends. It is liberal and most charitable,
and gratitude is a striking feature.  It is
capable of great mental and physical suffer-
ing, both of which it has passed through,
and has become calm, content and loving
life! Its manners are indicative of this,
and I suppose they may be called “taking”
generally; but as there are such diversities
of tastes, perhaps they may not please all!
but that neither adds or detracts from them;
they are at any rate as nature made them,
for never were anything more unstudied.
Probably this may be considered the fault;
n’importe, we have no time to take the
trouble to discuss this point.  They (the
manners) carry the heart of the being, and
hold it up to the gaze of associates; and
this heart is so warm that it forces, per-
haps, the exotics of nature, which the
world’s frostiness nips and sends them back
chilled and shriveled, and this has caused
sorrow and disappointment.  But times and
half-times correct this precocious folly in
the school of experience, and the heart has
love, joy, peace, a love of truth, from what-
ever source it comes, honesty, candor and
sincerity! ’Tis possessed of social and do-
mestic virtues, fond of retirement, almost
solitude, yet when launched into society
enjoys it (if congenial) with a zest that
nature evidently points that way; but it is
only the few that can attract, or magnetize!
   Great love of books—oh! they have been
the pearl dissolved in the cup of life—the
jeweled link in life’s iron chain!  A strong
spice of poetry and romance in the compo-
sition; over-romantic, the worldling would
say, delightfully, deliciously so, the creature
itself defines it, declaring it the “philoso-
pher’s stone,” that converts all into gold,
giving a vision “coleur de rose!” But
remember with all these idealisms, suffi-
ciently plodding to be industrious and use--
ful, never eating the bread of idleness, or
becoming a drone in the hive.  Haughty
and proud, but still gentle and humble,
these extremes are sometimes remarkably
blended;  the  development  of  either
depended upon who handles the character,
or how it is handled!  may be led by a silken
thread, if love holds it, may be propelled
by a feather plucked from the downy wing
of love;  but a rod of iron,  held by the
hand of tyranny, changes the aspect, and
like the biting frost of winter fossilizes
beauty and happiness; hasty and impetuous,
but held in by the reins of self control,
quiet and enduring, generous, very; a soul
made for worship, consequently  highly
devotional; temperament pensive and po-
etical; temper under good control, consid-
ering the volcanic strata it passes through;
disposition good, calm, collected, and con-
centrated; firm, fond and faithful, cautious,
conscientious and conciliating;  to  these
may occasionally be found some antipodes—
“the flaws and blots that flesh is heir to.”
   The sketch is ended, as far as I intend to
develop it, and the sitting is over.
	   CHARACTER SEVENTH.
			      ------
   I was asked to write this character, and
desire to do so truthfully, commencing with
appearance; for assuredly “the spirit makes
the form,” unless it has lived in prison,
and one of royal calibre will find a way to
break the bands and force the lock sooner
or later.
   Moderate height and sturdy figure, the
“tout ensemble” decidedly  aristocratic;
light hair, very blue eyes, the expression of
the same, especially at times, riveting and
remarkable; great character in the mouth,
which is rather large; forehead rather broad
than high—the whole countenance convey-
ing a very pleasing expression, and by no
means devoid of that which exhibits force
and high tone.  Byron would have decided
upon the high birth of this lady by her
small hand and foot.  This woman was born
regal, but she did not know it; does she
know it even now, when half her life is
over upon the earth?  I doubt it.  Then
awake from thy slumbers, fair lady, and
“know thyself” and thy consequent respon-
sibilities!  Thou hast the warm, full blood
of Ephraim flowing in thy veins, and would
have made a Judith, or a Jeptha’s daughter
to such a father! thou hast been in a grand
school of experience, walk calmly, walk
cautiously, be not in haste, large bodies
move slowly, and thou art not small.  Ven-
eration is visible, yet not so large as to be
ever fanatical; not deficient in appreciation
of the subl[-]me and the beautiful; benevo-
lence large—not apt to soar into ideality,
having had sufficient ballast to be held on 
Terra firma; order good, but not excruciat-
ing; loves children, but does not deify
them; has lacked self-appreciation, not
realizing her own individuality, and so 
like one in the dark she has feared to ad-
vance another step; but she is emerging
into the light, and henceforth her walk
will be more decided, and as she becomes
acquainted with herself she will be more
confident, will feel the ground firm beneath
her feet, and will throw out a little more of
the sweet abandon of her character.  Fear
not, such an one as I am depicting can
never be vulgar, but merely make it more
artistic, needing no wrappings but the sim-
ple drapery of truth.
 This character would have excelled as an 
actress; she has many suitable requisites
for such a position—her voice alone would
thrill an audience, and her reading and
rendition would have “filled the bill.” She
should cultivate speaking as an art—should
learn to lecture; she could do it, did she
but unfold herself from the wrappings
placed upon her in the nursery and the
school-room, binding both heart and brain;
the former, being the mightiest organ, has
somewhat burst the bands.  To do anything
well, we must be at ease, must forget that
any eye is upon us; artistic actors always
raise their eyes above their audience, that
they may not see or be influenced by it; in
this way they escape the magnetism of
eyes and are free.
   A good neighbor, a firm friend where
she posesses to be, a devoted mother and a
faithful wife.  Need more be said?  Yes,
much more might be said, and the crown of
all is that she is a faithful Latter-day Saint
Here opens  the grand field upon which she
can stretch herself, walking like a good
soldier through the deserts of the same,
yet basking sweetly upon every oasis she
meets with in her pathway.  Here is the
grand theatre of her future life, extending
into the eternities.  My sister, call out thy
soul, and let thy sisters rejoice at the sound
of thy sweet voice and the subjects emitted
from the same.  No longer doubt yourself,
for such doubts are traitors, and make you
lose the good you oft might win.  Bless
your sisters in the assemblies of the Saints
--they are the handmaids of the Lord and
will appreciate you.  Trust in God, open
your mouth, and He will fill it.
   The ear of the writer of these few words
will listen for the fulfillment of her asser-
tions; she speaks with confidence, because
she knows the material is there.  May she,
feel that she has struck  chords that have,
awakened "A Harp of a thousand strings.”


LITERARY WORK.

	We edit in our Association at Pleasant
Grove a manuscript paper called the "Young
Folks Advocate." It is edited and read
conjointly, by a member from each Associa-
tion (the Young Men's and the Young La-
dies'), and is issued monthly, the editor
reading it at the monthly joint session of
the two Associations, and it has proven a
very interesting feature of these meetings.
	The first number was issued in June, 1878,
and it has continued to appear regularly
ever since. It contains essays on religious,
moral and educational subjects, local items,
the news of the day, wit and humor, ad-
vertisements, and, in fact, any subject that
is considered of general interest to the
young people. In the later numbers, the
"History of Pleasant Grove" has been be-
gun. commencing from the date of the first
wagon track made to Pleasant Grove in
1850, and continuing to the present time.
This history, written by one of the early
settlers, is very interesting, especially to
the younger portion of the community.
	H. A. WINTERS.


"DAWKTER," said an exquisite, the
other day, “I want you to tell me what I
can put into my head to make it right.,
“It wants nothing but brains,” said the
physician.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - - - Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Counc[-]l
House, South Temple St[--]et. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		Publisher Woman's Exponent,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, NOV. 15, 1879.


THE CHILDREN.
 What tender thoughts are awakened by the
one word children, in the hearts of all who
realize the relationships of life. It calls out
the affections immediately, and awakens with-
in the soul emotions born of live for all that is
good and pure. The little children! how inno-
cent they are, how guileless in their simplicity,
how attractive in all they say and do in their
artless, unaffected manner. Love for children
is a heaven-born attribute in the human char-
acter; it is right to live and cherish them, but
there is much more to do besides loving them,
in the usual signification of the term. Gener-
ally speaking, love is blind to faults; it should
not be; this will not answer with children.
Parents, mothers especially, for it is to mothers
we are addressing these few lines, should disci-
pline and control the love they bear their chil-
dren, so that it prove a blessing. It should be
the kind of love that is watchful, diligent, con-
stant and tender, yet firm and decided when
necessary. To help little children to grow up
good and pure, honest and upright, is a noble
work. Most people have contented themselves
with thinking that before a child was eight
years old there was little need of teaching; yet
everybody knows how susceptible children are,
hw inquiring, and how eager to see, to hear,
and to do.
   It is evident that to correct the evils that ex-
ist in the world to-day a great reformation is
needed, of a kind unlike any other, and many
wise people believe it must commence with
the children. They are certainly the purest
element to work with (would to heaven they
could be born purer physically), but this is an-
other point in view. This work must necessa-
rily devolve heavily upon the mothers; they
make the first impressions. But they may
have helps in teachers and instructors, who,
by various methods of interesting and attracting
them, may relieve a short time the over-bur-
dened mother, and draw out much of what I 
fine and tender in their own natures.
 The finest and most eminent characters of
whom we have heard, or read, have expressed
themselves as being happy in the society of
little children. The Savior rebuked his disci-
ples for refusing to let the children be brought
to Him, and said in those touching words, that
have been quoted ever since, by all classes of
people wherever the Bible is known, "Suffer
little children to come unto me, and forbid
them not, for of such is the kingdom of heav-
en."
 Everything for the better education of little
children in all that is most excellent should be
done, and because of the endelible impressions
made upon the infant mind in its earliest years,
the greatest care should be taken in the devel-
opment of their moral and spiritual faculties
Many people do not believe that children pos-
sess any positive spiritual faculties that can
possibly be cultivated so young as under eight,
nine, or ten years. But however tiny the
germ may be, it should be nourished and its
growth encouraged proportionately with other
tendencies.
 There has been too much neglect of these
spiritual qualities in the young, yet they are of
vital importance in the perfecting and harmon-
izing of the human soul. If they can be called
out in the children, faith will increase, and the
knowledge of God. Child-life is always more
or less delightful; it stands out separate and
apart from all other phases of one's life as the
time of genuine happiness, and the traditions
and instructions of the earliest period are re-
membered with a distinctness that almost
passes belief.
   Among this people there is a host of children;
the parents are anxious they should excel in
all that will make them noble and truly wise.
Then it is absolutely necessary that some spe-
cial pains be taken to raise them above the or-
dinary standard. The custom has been to edu-
cate them morally and mentally, but the spir-
itual has lain dormant. But a new movement
has been made to put  into active exercise the
spiritual elements of the children's character.
For this purpose the organizations called Pri-
mary Associations have been formed, and al-
ready much has been accomplished in this
direction. But there is not sufficient interest
awakened upon the subject; many parents are
indifferent in regard to the matter. Some good
people think this getting the children together
to teach them of the things of God, and help
develop in them at a very early period the la-
tent germ of spirituality, is superfluous; they
are taught to pray in the nursery and at the
mother’s knee, and then are also taught in the
Sabbath School, and that more than this is
cramming them with things they cannot ap-
preciate; others have said, "It is some old wo-
man's whim who is over-religious." To all, or
any, who feel any doubt on this subject, we
would suggest that they take the trouble to
visit one of these same Primary Associations,
and listen to the teachings given, note the
spirit and manner in which they are im-
parted; hear the sweet voices of the children
singing, and see the eyes sparkle with innocent
pleasure and the little faces brighten as they
answer their questions; and better still, hear
them speak in their childish manner of faith
and other principles. Oh, it is a glorious thing
to see our children walk in the ways of the
Lord while in their early youth. They are the
future hope of Israel. Mothers, let us ever
carry this remembrance in our hearts,


HOME AFFAIRS.

	MRS. Ormstead gives lessons in artificial
flower-making, at one dollar per week, every
day from two o'clock until five P. M., at Mrs.
Read's, right hand side of Bishop Hunter's
house, in the garden, between Z. C. M. I. and
the Saving Bank, Main Street.
	AN Egyptian Postal Card, mailed at Port
Said, Egypt, has been shown to us, really quite
a curiosity. (Blessings on the inventor of
these precious little cards!) They carry tidings
from the old to the new world. The lady who
sent the card to her sister in this city is on her
way to Nazareth, to teach school there. The
ship in which she sailed encountered the most
fearful storm in the Mediterranean—tropical
lightning for six hours, like incessant cascades
of fire, hailstones size of hens' eggs."


CORRESPONDENCE.

	ARIZONA, APACHE CO., Oct. 25, 1879
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	Dear Sister—After a long silence I again re-
sume my pen to correspond with my dear old
friend, the EXPONENT, This leaves us well
and prosperous in the far-off land of Arizona.
The brethren have succeeded in raising average
crops this season. Notwithstanding the long
drouth, they have had plenty of water to irri-
gate more land than was cultivated. Sugar
cane averaged one hundred gallons to the acre,
and a very good yield of corn and squashes.
This is the best country for beans I ever saw.
There will be no difficulty in storing beans for
famine in this country, as there can be an
abundance of them raised here. I see from
the EXPONENT that Sister E R. Snow recom-
mends the storing of beans in Sanpete Valley.
Our settlements here, though small, would do
well to give heed to this counsel.
	Owing to the scattered condition of the set-
tlements, there is no Relief Society organized
here yet, but some of the sisters are doing what
they can in the way of clothing our neighbors,
the Lamanites, who manifest a friendly appre-
ciation of our kindness. Bro. Lewyllen Harris
has been very dilligent in teaching them, in
connection with Bro. Thaine and others; so
much so, that one of the head chiefs said in
my hearing, when asked to smoke, that he did
not smoke; that those who did not drink
whiskey, or use tobacco, would live twenty
years longer than those who did The mission
to this land is a very important one. When I
have met with brethren who have left their
families and labored for years past among the
natives of this land, I have been reminded of
the aneedote of Bro. Heber C. Kimball when
he went to preach the mysteries of the king-
dom, which was "that Bro. Amasa needed a
pair of pantaloons" The brethren and sisters
have been poorly prepared to render assistance
to those who have labored for years past among
a people that cannot sustain themselves.
	The everlasting hills rejoice, and the earth is
made glad, together with the ancient covenant
people of God, because of the blessing of the
Holy Priesthood that has come upon this land.
There have been appropriations made by the
Saints here for the opening of a new road from
here to Utah, which will prove a great blessing
to those desiring to emigrate to this country.
The old route by way of Lee's Ferry has been
a terror to some. As I stood gazing upon the
rugged cliffs, towering perpendicularly above
the river at the ferry, I was struck with awe
and reverence at the sight; a solemnity rested
upon me. I thought of the sad fate of Bishop
Roundy, and the beautiful theme of Parley P.
Pratt, the gifted theologian and poet, when he
exclaimed:
		"liers 'mid the mountain's towering dome,
		The Colorado water's foam,
		And freedom finds a home,
		Oh, come, come away."
	Sister Annie Woods joins me in love to the
brethren and sisters. We hope to see the day
that unjust judges will no longer sit in judg-
ment upon holy men of God. The s[-]me God
that caused prison walls to fall in t[--] days of
the Savior is their God, and His arm is not
weakened; He can deliver.
	Owing to the irregularities of the mail, I do
not receive more than half of the Exponents
due me, threfore the sisters here are waiting to
send their subscriptions for the paper in conse-
quence of this delay. With love to the breth-
ren and sisters and a fervent desire for the in-
terest of the Saints, as ever,
	W. EAST.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		93


[Column 1]
VISIT TO ENGLAND.

	I left Salt Lake City May 20, traveling for
five days by rail, in company with my son Jo-
seph, Brothers Martineau, Benson and other
Elders. We met occasionally with intelligent
persons, with whom we had pleasant conversa-
tions, disabusing the minds of some who had
listened to the misrepresentations of Ann
Eliza, Mrs. Stenhouse, and others. We arrived
in New York on Sunday moning, the 25th,
When we took up our abode at the Stevens
House, Bowling Street, the hotel generally
patronized by ou[-] people. In the afternoon
my son and I took a walk down Broadway, and
were surprised to meet so few well-dressed per
sons, and to find the streets so quiet, no one
appearing to be on his way to a place of wor-
ship; indeed, there did not appear to be any
service held in the Churches we passed. On
the Monday morning quite a different scene
was presented. Broadway and other streets
were thronged on the sidewalks with pedes-
trians, while it was difficult to cross the street
for omnibuses, cars and vehicles of every des-
cription that were innumerable. We went to
the Office to see Bro. Staines (who was not
aware of our arrival, having spent the Sunday
in Brooklyn). He kindly assisted us in pro-
curing our passage on the Wisconsin, which
was to sail on Tuesday, 27th; and extended
his courtesy and kindness in taking us across
the water to Brooklyn, to see the lovely Green-
wood Cemetery, a delightful resting place for
the dead. The grounds are laid out in the
most exquisite taste, ornamented with every
kind of plant and flowers of sweet perfume.
There is a carriage service organized for the
accommo[-]ation of lot-owners and visitors. At
the North entrance a carriage, with coachman
in livery, is in attendance every fine day at
certain hours, to drive you through the differ-
ent avenues. He stops occasionally to point
out some monument of interest, describing to
you the person, cause of death, etc. Many of
these monuments are most costly in design,
with chaste and richly ca[-]ved statuary; some
erected at the cost of thirty thousand dollars.
Tablets of sculptured marble, and monuments
of the same; others were of granite and [-]ome
of bronze. In one of the avenues you have a
splendid view of the Bay of New York, with
Staten Island and New Jersey in the distance.
I think the avenues through which you can
travel extend 18½ miles. It is indeed a lovely
spot, and seems as though it would be nice to
lie down there and rest. We were much de-
lighted with our ride, though it ne[-]ded more
than one pair of eyes to see all points of inter-
est. Felt deeply indebted to Bro. Staines for
the treat. His gentlemenly kindness and
courtesy is a great comfort to the brethren and
sisters who meet with him in New York.
	On Tuesday morning our kind friend, Bro.
S., accompanied us to the vessel, introduced us
to the officers, and gave us the last "God bless
you" and wave of the hand as we sailed out of
port at 10:30 A. M., to cross the briny deep for
England's shores. Our passage was a favorable
one, were well cared for on the vessel, having
every luxury of the season, though unfor-
tunately I was not capable of enjoying much,
being too sick to present myself at the table
after the first day. Was very thankful when
we arrived in Liverpool, which was on the 7th
of June, making a voyage of eleven days. I
met with intelligent and agreeable ladies, the
wives of ministers and men of business. We
had an excellent stewardess, who paid us every
attention, a kind C[-]ptain, whom I never heard
speak a cross word. One circumstance that
tended to mar our pleasure was the sickness of

[Column 2]
Bro. David Dunbar (who, with Bro. French,
had joined us in New York)  Two days after
landing in Liverpool it proved to be the small
pox he was suffering from, and that of the se-
verest kind. I was thankful when I heard of
his convalescence; was also pleased to have a
call from him while in Leicester, for I had
been particularly anxious about him and exer-
cised faith and prayer in his behalf; when I
heard that he was fast sinking, I could not be-
lieve he would die.
	On arriving in Leicester, our native town,
my brother and part of his family were at the
station to greet us. My brother and I could
not recognize in each other the same person
that we had seen twenty-eight years ago. We
could not speak, but wept together. Nor was
my son recognizable, not having seen him
since a boy of eight years old. My son spent
two weeks visiting with his friends before go-
ing to his field of labor in the Sheffield Con-
ference. I spent a pleasant time with my
relatives in Leicester, called upon a few old
friends, though they were but few, many that
I once knew were sleeping in their graves. I
found very little disposition amongst my
friends to investigate the truth, or take any
interest in Mormoni[-]m, except it was to in-
quire about polygamy, and made that as a
plea, or excuse, for not having a desire to un-
derstand our principles. Yet I realize there
are very few happy marriages in the world. I
believe many are afraid to investigate lest they
should be convinced, which they feel would be
attended with great sacrifice, to unite them-
selves with a people who are so unpopular.
We were some time before we found out where
the Latter-day S[-]ints m[--] for worship. We at
length found about sixty-two of the Saints,
who met in a small house in a quiet street.
They met to partake of the Sacrament, bear
their testimony, &c., but had no singing lest
they should di[-]turb their neighbors, which to
me appeared rather cold and dry. The parties
who kept the house have since emigrated, with
several others, from that branch. It appears to
me that [-]he work is at a low ebb in my native
place, but trust, with the exertions of Brother
David Dunbar, who takes the Presidency of
that Conference, and his co-laborers, that a
more lively interest will be taken in the work.
	I spent five or six weeks in Manchester, vis-
iting my husband's sister. I met frequently
with the Saints in Grosvenor Street, and en-
joyed myself much; also attended the Confer-
ence, meeting with quite a number of the
brethren from Utah, and had quite a happy
time. Found one dear [-]r[-]end in the Church
with whom I enjoyed myself—a sister of our
respected Sister Barrett. I visited occasionally
with her, which was the most enjoyable time
I had, my own relatives having no sympathy
with my religion and no desire to learn of its
principles. Though I had every comfort and
luxury, and a carriage to ride in, I felt there
was no place like the home of the Saints.

(To be continued.)


[Column 1]
	DEDICATION OF SISTER BOOTH'S
	HOUSE AT BEAVER.

	Sister Hannah Booth's house was dedicated
Oct. 17, 1879; it has a good rock foundation,
with brick walls. Pres. J. R. Murdock made
introductory remarks; prayer by Elder Daniel
Tyler. Picn[-]c dinner. There seemed nothing
wanting to suit the variety of appetites that
surrounded the table. Tho e who prepared
the dinner thought best to forget retrenchment
just for that once; there had b[-]en such faithfu
labor bestowed upon the house, the workmen
(especially Philip Baker) had been so liberal

[Column 2]
and persevering in finishing up the building;
the occasion demanded an extra dinner. Six
Elders were present, and double the number
of women, all with open hearts to congratulate
Mother Booth on carrying into effect what she
had commenced with doubtful prospects; thus
proving that women can accomplish "big"
things with little means, with tact and skill,
as well as men, and better sometimes, under
conflicting circumstances.
	Brother Wm. Fotheringham entertained the
company with an account of his mission to
India, the strange religion of that country, the
readiness of Mother Booth, her sister, her son
and wife, to embrace the truth, amidst the
great indifference of the people who hoard his
preaching. They were the chosen few. They
had been raised in ease and affluence, not ac-
customed to labor, but for the Gospel of Christ
they thought no sacrifices too gre[-]t.
	Sister L. B. Pratt contributed a lengthy essay.
She had known the family on their first arrival
in San Bernardino, California, had been a wit-
ness to their energy in learning to cook their
food, which they had never done in their own
country. She says: "I, with other sisters,
taught them to cook by a campfire, and after-
wards by a stove. I admired their patience
and perseverance; never did I hear them mur-
mur and say, ‘If I was back in my own coun-
try I could have servants to do my work.'
When the Church was preparing to leave San
Bernardino, they exerted themselves to come
to Utah. They sold their fine dresses, cam-
brics and laces, many articles of value, to pur-
chase a team and wagon. They bought two
yoke of Texican cattle, frightful to look upon,
with tremendous horns. They were not well
broken, and Mother Booth's son was not an
experienced driver, having been a Civil Engin-
eer in his native country. The two sisters had
to walk up all the hills, and wade through
deep sand in crossing the desert. I was in the
same company; we often walked till a late
hour in the night. It was no new thing to me
to travel with ox teams, as I had been through
the exodus from Nauvoo to Salt Lake; but to
them it was strange and new. They stood it
bravely. Mother Booth had been educated for
an Accoucher in India, and practised success-
fully in San Bernardino. We reached the set-
tlements in Utah af[-]er one of the most tedious
jouneys that human beings ever performed,
and located in Beaver, where for several years
Mother Booth was a faithful and skilfull phy-
[-]ician among her own sex. In pr[-]cess of time
Mother Booth went to Salt Lake, and there
continued her practice, winning the confidence
of many ladies whom she attended through
the trying scenes of childbirth. Who can say
her career has not been a remarkable one? You
who are present know what her labors have
been in Beaver—a faithful servant to the pub-
lic; and while managing the building of her
house, walking about the town to collect ma-
terial, and contract for work on the building,
she had the care of her poor afflicted sister by
day and by night. The disease of her sister
was an aggravating one, causing her to be al-
most as helpless as an infant; no one could
have strength and patience to attend her like
her faithful sister. She besought the Lord for
strength, and it was given her. She scarcely
felt her weariness, till the poor sufferer was re-
leased and carried to her final resting place;
then she realized what she had passed through
and acknowledged the power that had sup-
ported her."
	A vote of thanks was tendered to all who
had kindly assisted in building the house, and
Mother Booth, after repeating the Lord’s
prayer in the language spoken in Hindostan,


expressed her gratitude to her friends, and de-
clared herself blessed and comforted. Thus
ended the dedication of a building (a credit-
able one) erected by the economy and wise
management of a woman from far-off India.
	AN INVITED GUEST.
For further particulars concerning this re-
markable woman, we would refer our readers
to "The Women of Mormondom," chap. xivii,
"A Sister from the East Indies."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

 The Second Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Societies in the Bear Lake Slake of
Zion was held at Paris on the 18th and 19th
of October, commencing at 10 o'clock A. M.
On the stand were Pres. J. P. Lindsay and
her counselors, also the presidents of the
different Relief Societies throughout this
Stake. Meeting opened in the usual man-
ner, with singing and prayer.  The minutes
of previous Conference were read and ac-
cepted; also the statistical and financial re-
port of the Relief Societies and Primary
Associations.  Pres. Lindsay and counsel-
ors, Elizabeth Collings and Maria Rich, re-
spectively. addressed the congregation; ex-
hortod the sisters to be punctual in attend-
ing their meetings, also to be very careful
in regard to the language they use and the
example they set before their children, lest
they should rise up in accusation against
them hereafter.
 2 P. M.  The time was occupied by the
presidents of the various societies, giving
verbal reports of their condition, all show-
ing prosperity, and that some had been
very diligent in gleaning and storing grain.
 19th, 10 A. M.  The President and offi-
cers of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improve-
ment Associations occupied the stand.  Ap-
propriate remarks were also made by Bish-
ops H. J. Horne, Robert Price, J. Pugmire,
and Brother Richard Horne.
 2 P. M. Pres. J. P. Lindsay  addressed
the audience, giving a very spirited dis
course on Plural Marriage, also good and
valuable instructions to the presidents, and
other officers of the Relief Societies.
	Prests. J. H. Hart and George Osmond
heartily  endorsed  the  remarks  made by
the sisters, and encouraged them to perse-
vere and be steadfast in the good work in
which, they were engaged.  Choir sang.
Benediction.  Conference  adjourned sine
die.'
	All regretted that Apostle C. C. Rich was
detained at home, on account  of sickness
in-his family.
			ELIZABETH PUGMIRE.
				Corresponding Secretary.
			------
	The annual meeting of the Relief Society
of Grass Valley, Sevier Co., was held at
the Grove Aug. 1.  There were present on
the stand Pres. Margreth Anderson, Coun-
selors  Eliza  Rust and Sabra  Hatch, also
Bishop  J.  H.  Wright and Counselors P.
Rasmussen  and T.  E.  Beck.  After the
usual exercises and reading of minutes, the
statistical and financial report was read as
follows: Statistical:  Teachers, 12;  mem-
bers,  72; total officers and members,  87;
meetings held semi-monthly, average at-
tendance 29;  WOMAN'S EXPONENT taken,
11  copies.  Financial:  Receipts,  cash,
$15.55; property, $44,30;  Disbursements,
to the Manti Temple, $8.50; home indus-
try, $10.82; books, $3.98;  to the poor, $4.43;
on hand in the Treasury,  $45.19; grain
stored for Zion 26 bushels.  It was then
moved and unanimously carried that we
sustain bur officers on the stand.
	Bishop J. H. Wright then gave us some
good instructions, telling us to go ahead
and put our trust in God; he was happy to
see the sisters striving to do what was right.
Pres. Margreth Anderson instructed the
sisters to be punctual in attending meet-
ings; thought we did not fully realize the
duties wo will have to perform in the fu-
ture; also encouraged us to lay up grain.
	Coun. Eliza Rust bore her testimony to
the truth of this work.  Coun. Sabra Hatch
read a very good piece of poetry composed
by herself.
	Counselors Peter Rasmussen and Thomas
E. Beck and others made very interesting 
remarks, telling us to go ahead and per-
form the duties that were placed upon us,
and said we should not be discouraged be-
cause we are poor, for the Lord is able to 
bless those who serve him.  Singing. Bene-
diction.
		MARGRETH ANDERSON, Pres't.
MARY JENSON, Sec’y.
				------
	Pursuant to notice the Relief Society of
Lehi met October 20, to accept the resigna-
tion of the president, Mrs. Sarah Coleman;
also to appoint a successor.
	There were present on the occasion Bish-
op Thomas R. Cutler and Counselors W. H.
Winn and A. R. Anderson, also President
Mrs. M. T. Smoot and Mrs. Lucy W. Kim-
ball of Provo.
	The Bishop read the letter of resignation
of Sister Coleman, which was accepted.  A
vote of thanks was tendered  Sister  Cole-
man for her efficient services to the Society,
and to Sister Barbara Ann Evans, her Coun
selor, who also had resigned.
	It was afterwards motioned that Sister
Rebecca Standring be President  of the Re-
lief Society of Lehi, with Mrs. Martha  P.
Thomas as first  and  Mrs. Mary J. Powells
as her second counselor.  Motion  unani-
mously sustained.  They were set apart by
the Bishop and counselors, after which Pres.
Mrs. Smoot addressed the meeting, stating
that she felt sorry that Sister Coleman
should resign, but knew she was getting
ripe in years and her health was feeble.
She advised the sisters to adhere to the
counsel of the Priesthood, and encouraged
them in relation to their duties.
	Bishop Cutler urged the sisters to union
and the sustaining of each other; said he
would assist them all that lay in his power.
	On the following  Monday  the annual
meeting was held, at which Bishop Cutler
and counselors were present.  After the open-
ing exercises, the yearly report was read
and accepted.  After which it was motioned
by Pres.  Standring  that Miss Elizabeth
Smith act as Secretary of the Society, with
Mrs. Mary Ann Standring as Assistant Sec-
retary; also Mrs. Mary Ann Anderson as
Treasurer.   Motion sustained,  and  these
sisters set apart by the Bishop and his coun-
selors.
	The Bishop  expressed  himself  as being.
pleased at  finding  the Society  was  in so
good a condition.  Admonished the sisters
to magnify their callings, and assist one an-
other that we may be enabled to attain to
the blessings  God  has promised  to his
Saints.
	Coun. Winn and  Anderson gave  advice
and counsel to  the Sisters, urging  them  to
unity and good works  in  Zion's cause.  A
good spirit and feeling  prevailed  through-
out both meetings.  It was  a time  of  re-
joicing.
WM. SOUTHWICK, Sec'y pro tem.


"IS THERE any cloves or cinnamon,"
asks a despairing moralist, "that will
sweeten the breath of scandal?"


MEN'S VIEWS OF WOMEN'S DUTIES.

	"SPEECH is silvern: silence is golden."
It is probable that by this time Lord Burgh-
ley has seen cause to regret that at the An-
nual Dinner of the Northamptonshire Agri-
cultural Society he proposed as a remedy for
the present agricultural depression "that
the farmers' wives and daughters must put
their shoulders to the wheel. Their daugh-
ters must not be brought up to play the
piano; but as farmers' wives. They should
not be brought up to play lawn-tennis and
to speak French and other languages. They
were wanted to exist entirely in this coun-
try to assist the agricultural interest."
Lord Burghley's speech furnished material
for letters in the newspapers for a fortnight.
Farmers' daughters asked with natural in-
dignation, "What would he have us do?
We make our own bread, make butter for
the house and for market, attend the poul-
try, pigs are killed in the house, needle-
work done, even to dressmaking, and to
meet the exigencies of the times only one
maidservant is kept. This with the general
supervision of the house, seems enough.
Would Lord Burghley have us import ad-
ditional hands, and take to the field work
ourselves? Woud there be any economy in
this?" This resentment at the masculine
"laying down of the laws" is very natural.
It is surely worse than useless in these days
when so much attention is paid to mechan-
ical and scientific improvement in men's
employments to argue that women's work
must be carried on entirely in the old
grooves, that they have no business to be
anything more than thoroughly domesti-
cated" (to use the cant words of advertise-
ment,) and that all education beyond cook-
ing, sewing, and housework, is supereroga-
tory, We quite agree that there may be
too much piano-playing, but we would like
to see it diminish among the middle and
higher classes, and in favor of less sup-
erficial acquirements with which we fear
Lord Burghley would have even less sym-
pathy than with French and lawn-tennis.
If he meant that the women as well as the
men of the family should look upon the
joint prosperity as their own concern, we
also agree, but this would not be secured
by their exclusion from the higher-educa-
tion of their fathers and brothers, but by
their improved knowledge of business,
from farming details up to political econ-
omy, and by a system of more equal respon-
sibility under which the women of the
family should have a fairer share of control
over the general income than under the
present system of pin-money or allowances.
	Such oracular utterances on the domestic
duties of women are unfortunately very
common. The Duke of Rutland followed
suit the other day when, in opening an
endowed school for girls in Loughborough,
he said "Without touching on the question
of woman's rights, he thought women should
receive an education to fit them to under-
take the duties they had to fulfill, especially
cookery and sewing." Of course women
should be educated to fulfil their duties,
but who is to say what these duties are?
Cooking and sewing are not the duties of
every woman, any more than carpentering
or ploughing are the duties of every man.
In proportion as the general capacity of
girls is increased, their quickness of per-
ception, their accuracy of calculation, their
general powers of reasoning on and applying
what they have acquired, will increase,
and they will become more fitted to turn to
whatever special duties fall to their share.
But there is an assumption which borders
on the offensive in these accurately defined


statements of the duties and sphere of the
whole of one sex, which is instructive in
quite another sense to that which these
statesmen and orators intend.—"English-
woman's Review."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.

KINGSTON, Oct. 13, 1879,

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I have often felt a desire, to express my
feelings,through the medium of your paper;
but have refrained from doing so, through
the consciousness of my weakness. But on
reading the Charge.of Chief Justice Hunter,
to the Grand Jury, I feel to express some of
my thoughts thereon.
	He says, "The government of the United
States," "And polygamy cannot exist with-
in the same limits, and it is more than ap-
parent, it will not be the government that
will have to succumb." After seeking to
rob the Latter-day Saints, of the honor due
them, in reclaiming these desert wastes;
and bestowing that honor, on the "Gentile-
element," he says "Do you gentlemen,
think it was in the interest of polygamy,
that these vast changes have taken place?
Do you not rather see in them, the purpose
ot the Supreme Ruler, to teach, these peo-
ple their errors?"
	It the learned gentleman believes in the
Bible, and, will read the 107 Psalm, perhaps
he may see that the Prophet David, foresaw
the time, when, there would be a people,
even, "The redeemed of the Lord;" "Whom
He hath redeemed from the East, and
the West, and the North, and the South."
"And He led them forth by the right way,"
(after feeding the "hungry," "thirsty,"
"fainting," souls, wandering in the wilder-
ness.)
	Also, that He turned the wilderness into
standing water; and dry ground into water
springs; and there He made the "Hungry
to dwell, that they might prepare a city for
habitation." "And sow the fields, and plant
vineyards." "And He blesseth them so that
they are multiplied greatly;" "Again they
are diminished, and brought low;" How?
"Through oppression, affliction, and sorrow.
Then what does the Lord do? "He poureth
contempt, upon Princes and causeth them
to wander in a wilderness, where there is
no way. Princes are rulers, or we may say
the government, What! The Lord going
to cause the government to wander in a
wilderness where there is no way, and be
lost? He certainly does not say that He will
lead them, by the "right way," so we may
infer that they may be lost. But what does
He do with the poor, and oppressed ones?
Let us see. Yet setteth He the poor on
high from affliction, and maketh him famil-
ies like a flock." The Lord do this? Indeed
He will. What then? "The Righteous
shall see it and rejoice, and all iniquity
shall stop her mouth." What is iniquity?
It is evident that all who seek the down-fall
of the people that God has led forth to this
desert land, and speak and fight against
the holy principle ot Celestial Marriage, are
by the Lord termed iniquity, and she shall
stop her mouth. Who will observe these
things? "The wise." What shall they un-
derstand? The loving kindness of the Lord
Then who will succumb?
						A. BELIEVER.

SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 7th, 1879.

DEAR EDITOR:

	I have so much to write this time that I
hardly know where to begin. We have

[Column 2]
had such a general time of excitement that
it has unfit me for the most ordinary duties.
You are aware ere this that General Grant
was the cause of all this bustle. For a
week everybody was on the qui vive wait-
ing for the signal to tell us the Tokio was
in sight. The fire alarms were to tell us
first, and at every tap of the bell during
the week every one was ready to start to
welcome the great hero to his native home
—America.
	The city was gorgeously decorated; it
seemed a contagion, every one did some-
thing, until the city resembled a paradise;
I cannot begin to describe the beauty.
Across the street ropes were stretched, and
thousands of small flags were attached,
which were arranged in diamonds, hearts,
crosses, and in fact everything one could
think of. The Jewish holidays were being
celebrated at that time, and the people were
more showily dressed than ever before.
The city and the entertainment altogether
was enchanting. We happened to be one
of the privileged few to welcome the Gen-
erai on board the steamer Cherea, and I
was wild with the anticipation of going on
the old ocean, and on such an auspicious
occasion. We had one hour to reach the
wharf after the first signal, and I happened
to be six miles from home at the first tap of
the bell; but the California street dummie
cars soon brought me to Kearney St., from
whence I flew like the wind to get my in-
vitation card, which I had left at home. I
arrived on the steamer just five minntes
ahead of time, and saw four or five thou-
sand people left on the wharf, although they
had tickets and had hired carriages to bring
them there.
	The steamer was gaily decorated with
flags of all nations, and the water was alive
with all kinds of water-crafts. We started
and sailed out about ten miles, and never
one seasick person. The ocean was so calm
and beautiful, and it was just at sunset
when we saw the Tokio in the distance.
We soon steamed along side of her; the
tug Millen Griffith sailed close to her, and
Ulysses, Jr., boarded the Tokio and was
soon in the embrace of his dear mother,
whom he had not seen for nearly three
years. A number of other huge steamers,
with their living freight, and handsomely
decorated, steamed alongside of Tokio; a
line of yachts, held in tow by a tug, was
formed for the steamer to pass through.
Then began the firing of cannon on either
side of the bay; the roar was deafening,
and shook our vessel from stern to stern.
The music was all along the water, the
hills were black with the eager crowds that
had gathered to witness the pageant on the
water. It was a sight never to be forgotten;
it was a glimpse of fairy land, or a scene In
the "Arabian Nights." Darkness and fog
began to settle down and dim the view,
when rockets were sent into the air, elec-
tric light was brought forth, also various
colored Roman candles. Our vessel steamed
back to the wharf, when to our dismay she
stuck fast on a sandbar, as the tide was out.
We were towed ashore inch by inch, and
it was after nine o'clock P. M. before we
stepped ashore. When we learned our
fate we made the best of it, and we had
the "Pinafore" and several amusing things
performed to while away the hours. The
grand torch-light procession had not ended,
and we saw it. O how enchanting! The
electric light, the waving flags and gay
bunting, the soldiers in their gay uniform,
and the inspiring martial music nearly
turned the people's heads, and 'tis not to be
wondered at either.
	The decorating was left for the General

[Column 3]
to inspect by daylight, which he did Sun-
day by riding In an open barouche. Every-
body was anxious to get a view of our dis-
tinguished visitor, and at every place where
it was thought he would be there were im-
mense crowds.
	He attended the Police Ball in aid of the
widows and orphans of the police depart-
ment, and the result was seven thousand
dollars for the treasury. I never saw such
a crowd; and the blue-coated guardians of
the peace made a pretty sight. They are
nearly the same height, and all dressed ex-
actly like. Their brass buttons were nicely
polished, and when they marched around
the hall two by two and doffed their hats
to the General the sight was very pretty.
	Kearney threatened to burn Grant in
effigy, and it was a sorry day for him, for
he came near losing his life, and if he had
attempted to carry out his threat he would
very likely have been shot in his tracks.
That threat has injured him more than any-
thing he has done yet. He left town be-
fore the General arrived, but returned be-
fore he started to Yosemite, and sent his
card up to the General's apartments, but
was refused an Interview on account of a
previous engagement.		NELLIE.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MISS Helen Magill, daughter of the
President of Swarthmore College, has been
studying at Cambridge University, and has
received a scholarship in a competitive ex-
amination in Greek, Latin and French.
Miss Magill graduated from Boston Uni-
versity.
	MRS. G. H. Lewes, nee Marian C. Evans,
the "George Eliot" of literature, wishes
that when she is buried only the words
"George Eliot" shall be placed on a slab
above her grave. The daughter of a coun-
try curate, she, with a good education, went
to London at the age of twenty-three and
began to write for magazines. She wrote
most for the radical "Westminster." She
declined to marry her tutor, Herbert Spen-
cer, the philosopher. She married Lowes,
whose first wife had twice run away from
him, and she lives in the house near Re-
gent's Park, where about a year ago he
died. She is fifty-nine, is childless, and
has earned $250,000 with her pen. She is
of medium height, has large features, gray
eyes, gray hair, and a sweet voice.
	MR. SCHURZ'S LIBRARY.—In Secretary
Schurz's beautiful library, which no one who
has ever entered forgets, stands an easel,
and on that easel is a life-sized portrait in
India ink—a face and bust—of marvelous
beauty and tenderness. It is more than a
picture: it is a presence, and it hallows the
apartment with a sense of "the tender
grace of a day that is dead." No one who
knew Mrs. Schurz in her lifetime, or who
recalls Mrs. Mary Clemmer's touching and
tender analysis of her character in the "In-
depent," shortly after her death, but ap-
proaches that picture as if it were a shrine.
To the pure and loyal heart of her husband
I know it is such, and if you have ever
seen him in his library you have felt that
that gentle presence became a participator
in the interview. Numa had his Egeria,
and Sir Galahad his blessed vision, and Carl
Schurz, returning to his lonely home at
nightfall, after days of such intense hard
work as few men realize—a work which is
to him more than a vocation, even a conse-
cration—opens softly the door of his favor-
ite room, and finds awaiting him those
sweetly-following eyes.—Albany Journal.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ETON BOYS.

	It was now long after noon, and I saw in
a field an Eton game of foot-ball. It was
played with spirit, but with less dash than
I had been led to expect. At another time,
how ever, there may have been more.
Apart from their uniforms, the players
could not have been distinguished from the
same number of Yankee boys, of like con-
dition in life, engaged in the same sport.
I also met a large party of "old boys," as
they came up, in their uniforms, from a 
cricket match. A lathier lot of young fel-
lows I never saw. Not that they were
either weak looking or unhealthy; but
they were not at all what the writings of
English critics had led me to expect. Not
one was robust. only one had color, and
there was not a curling auburn head among
them. I saw Eton boys by scores, and
found them neither ruddy nor plump, but
like most other boys between twelve and
twenty, rather pale and slender.
	The full dress Eton costume is a ridicu-
lous one. It is a short jacket or round-
about, with a very broad turn-over shirt
collar, and a chimney-pot hat. The combi-
nation is grotesque; and it is made more so
by the solmnity of most of the young chaps
when they have it on. Hunger drove me
and my young companion into a restaurant,
and I shall never forget the looks of a little
Eton prig who entered as we were sitting,
and took a place over against us. He kept
on his preposterous hat, gave his order as if
it were for his own capital execution, and
ate his cakes and drank his chocolate as if
that event were to take place at the conclu-
sion of his repast.—October Atlantic.


[For the EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S VOICE.

	Sisters, we are called to a noble and great
work. Do we appreciate the privileges
that are given us by the Almighty, to lead
out with our husbands in this great work
of reformation? Do we realize the respon-
sibility resting upon mothers towards their
children, to train their young and tender
minds to righteousness and peace, that
when they come to maturity they will not
depart from it? Let us keep in the path of
righteousness, and seek to know the mind
and will of our Heavenly Father, and our
children, seeing our good works, will follow
in our footsteps, and be noble sons and
daughters in the kingdom of God. Let us
put away all malice, envy and pride, for all
these things separate us from the love of
God, which is spread abroad in our hearts.
As our father Abraham imputed righteous-
ness through faith and not the law, let us
go on unto perfection.
	We are the children of light and not of
darkness, doing not the things of the world,
but seeking to know the will of God and
doing it, for that is the work that is given
us to do in this our day. The time is fast
approaching when Zion will be fully estab-
lished "in the tops of the mountains," and
who will be ready to meet their Lord.
	Let us be faithful in all things in the
kingdom, that our joy may be full, and
that we may reign with our King, the Sa-
vior of the world.				M. P.


MRS. Gen. Banks takes an ardent interest
in woman suffrage. The General's daugh-
ters have both registered, and will vote,
and they are influencing the young women
of Waltham of their "set" to follow their
example.


A YOUNG lady just returned from board-
ing-school, being asked at table if she
would take more, replied, "By no means,
madam; gastronomical satiety admonishes
me that I have arrived at the ultimate of
deglutition consistent with the code of
Æsculapius."

	A COUNTRY woman stopped some ten
minutes in front of a story in Springfield to
gaze at a patent fly trap in operation, which
was pretty well filled, and after studying
the placard, $2, intently, moved on, after
piping out, to the great amusement of the
bystanders: "Tew dollars! I wouldn't give
tew cents for all the flies in Springfield."

	AN old Scotch lady, who had no relish
for modern church-music, was expressing
her dislike for the singing of an anthem in
her own church one day, when a neighbor
said, "Why, that is an old anthem. David
sang that anthem to Saul." To this the
old lady replied, "Weel, weel, I noo for the
first time understan' why Saul threw his
javelin at David when the lad sang for
him."


[Column 1]
NEW GOODS.
HOME-MADE for the fall of 1879 Young ladies Single
Shawls, Ladies single and Double Shawls, New
[-]t[-]les in Stripe and Check Dress Flannels, New Style
Check Waterproofs, N[-]w Styles in Linseys. Fine White
Yarn 2 and 3 ply for Ladies and Baby Stockings, Grey
and Whi[-]e Blankets, P[-]ain White, Red and Blue Fl[-]nnels
Twille[-] Red, White a[-]d G[-]ey F[-]annel., Wool B[-]tting,
S[-]ell's [-]o[-]p, Brooms, Trunks, Brushes, and other Home
Made Goods.		MINNIE HO[-]N[-], Clerk,
			O[-]d Cons[-]itution Building, Salt Lake City

DON'T USE TOO MUCH PEORIA STARCH AT A TIME.
WHITEST! STRONGEST! BEST!
AS LESS IS REQUIRED THAN OF MOST OTHER KINDS.
PEORIA
SUPERB GLOSS
STARCH
FOR THE LAUNDRY
PEORIA
IMPROVED CORN STARCH
FOR THE TABLE.
For Sale by Utah Wholesale and Re-
tail Grocers.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE.
IF not you should do so at [-]nce, a[-]d examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and w[-]thont any noise and confu-
sion, although the rate of speed is very high. Its self-
setting and self-threading shuttle, and absence of springs
and cogs renders it both simple and durable. Be sure to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend.
Victor Sewing Machine Co., Chicago, Ill.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

NEW FALL STOCK.
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods, Etc., Etc.

[Column 2]
DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responped to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 806, Salt Lake City.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Has opened her Medical Class at her residence in the 
13th Ward, two blocks and a half east of the Post Office
south side of the street, nearly opposite the Presbyterian
Chur[-]h.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

TO THE LADIES!
HEALTH Corsets, Shoulder Braces, Skirt Supporters,
Back Braces, and Abdominal Supporters for sale or
made to order. by P. E. HARPER, First [-]outh Street,
nearly opposite Theatre.
	Mrs. ZINA D. YOU[-]G, agent for this Territory.
	Physicians and Ladies, call and examine.

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a m[--]
selection in Flowers. Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes Country dealers,
please call Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special departments for Gent's Clothing
and Carpets, Ladies and Children's Shoes,
Dry Goods, Shawls and Domestic[-],
Groceries, Hardware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS of all CLASES WANTED.
S. P TEASDEL.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
Salt Lake City.					97 Kimball Block.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution  Buil[-]ing,
	Residence six blocks east of Poet Office, south side of
s[-]reet.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of 
Women, and 
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN 
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers Wall Paper
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES.
76, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

