VOL. 8.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1880.	No. 22.


WHEREFORE AND WHY?

	If I be wicked, woe is me; and if I be righteous yet will
I not lift up mine head: I am full of confusion, therefore
see thou mine affliction.—Job.

Why do misfortunes encompass the just?
Why do they still The Omnipotent trust?
Why are we smitten? the weary ones cry,
Show us the reason, the wherefore and why.

Is not the sky of the scoffer most fair?
Seldom for God do the fortunate care;
Why should they seek Him, or praise Him for aught?
Surely their blessings with money are bought.
God they forget in their wealth and their pride,
They honor Him not, nay, they cast Him aside;
Yet they prosper, they flourish, they lift themselves high,
While truer ones ponder the wherefore and why.

While truer ones often of comforts are shorn,
They labor in patience, or wander forlorn;
Unnoted and jostled they pass in the crowd;
Ignored by the wealthy and scorned by the proud.
Some friends (?) such as Job's, will in kindness essay
To warn and reprove ('tis their comforting way):
And little is left, but on God to rely,
To feel that with Him is the wherefore and why.

For patience and strength we need evermore pray,
For one standeth ready to tempt and betray:
An accuser he tries us with troubles most sore,
Till the Lord cries, "Enough! thon shalt vex them no
	nore."
"Oh, let this cup pass,"  e'en the Savior did breath,
Yet the Father's Beloved had no special reprieve;
He knew 'twas His mission to suffer and die.
He knew more than mortals the wherefore and why.

The foxes had holes, and the birds had their nests,"
But the Son of the Highest had no place of rest;
Like the prophets of old and the prophets to-day,
A forfeit of blood had the Savior to pay.
And was He not mocked by humanity's dross?—
"Art thou the Christ? then come down from the cross."
How many in anguish re-echo his cry—
"God, hast thou forsaken me, wherefore and why?"

Sometimes His presence our Father doth hide—
To test us and prove us, as gold can be tried;
Then whispers the tempter, "The Lord doth not care,
Vain is thy patience, thy faith and thy prayer;"
But if love of uprightness within us is born,
We'll be true, though the enemy laughs us to scorn.
"Though the Lord should e'en slay us," we faithful will
	die,
Content with His purpose, the wherefore and why.
But not unto death will He cast us all down,
For all will not merit the martyr's bright crown;
All are not able great crosses to bear,
All are not worthy great honors to share.
Be not discouraged, nor sorely perplexed,
In confidence wait for whate'er may come next:
The sun and the rainbow shall illumine the sky,
Making clear to our vision the wherefore and why.

Let the scoffers revile "and imagine things vain,"
The Lord will the righteous approve and sustain;
As the hairs of each head our Creator doth know,
So the just live by faith, and they fear not a foe.
And e'en, if for wisdom's insructable ends,
We are wounded the most in the house of our friends,
Yet the patient and true can this ordeal defy,
God helps them to wait for the wherefore and why.

And surely we all have some friends that are true,
They are even more precious because they are few;
We can trust their affection, they never betray,
Their aim is to bless us, whatever they say;
They look through the surface, they see farther down,
They lift up the weary, but not with a frown.
Hath it "pleased God to bruise us," our honor to try,
They judge not our sins as the wherefore and why.
Was Job tried in vain? Nay! for all coming time
His afflictions have furnished a lesson sublime.
Upreared by endurance, nor built on the sands,
His trust and his triumph a mouument stands.
Are we wicked? Like Job, then, be unto us woe:
Are we righteous? Yet still let us keep ourselves low;
If troubled, be true, in the near by and by,
God, who sees us, will show us the wherefore and why.

	S. L. City.	EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.


[Column 1]

WORK FOR MOTHERS.

	How shall we protect the children from
partaking of the evils that are growing up
in our midst? One cannot walk the streets
of our beautiful city at the present time
without feeling the necessity of an influ-
ence being brought to bear against the evils
which are rapidly increasing, calculated to
lead astray the young and unwary. It is of
very little use to repeat that in the past, or
when we first came here, snch things were
not prevalent; we must look at the present
condition, and see what can be done to arrest
the progress of corrupt and wicked prac-
tices. The constant stream of tobacco smoke
that one is compelled to stem in walking up
Main Street in Salt Lake City is disgusting,
to say the least, to us who have been ac-
customed to breathe the pure air of heav-
en. "Once it was not so," you may hear on
all sides, from the good old folks who lived
in those "palmier days;" but that as I said
before is of no avail. It positively seems as
if smoking had become the hobby of hob-
bies. If any boy does not smoke, he is
urged, entreated, coaxed, and at last almost
compelled to try. In view of this fact,
every mother who esteems physical purity
as an essential condition, should be on the
lookout to prevent any intrusion of this
king tobacco into her dominion.
	Perchance some mother, sitting at home
by her quiet fireside, innocent and unsus-
pecting, may feel she is safe and that there
is no need to express one's self strongly on
the subject; but let that mother go out with
her veil up and her eyes open, and see the
little boys on the corners, morning, noon
and night, as I do, coming and going from
my daily labor, she might perhaps tremble
a little for her own little curly headed boy,
and wish too, perhaps, that some effectual
resistance might be made against the inva-
sion of this insidious foe to health and
purity.
	It may be a little thing at first, but it
makes that boy a slave, a slave to a craving,
morbid appetite, and I firmly believe is the
first step in thousands of instances to the
use of strong drink. This is not an attempt
at an essay upon tobacco,much as we despise
it, but only an appeal to mothers to watch
over their precious offspring and if possible
prevent any tendency to evil doing. Far
better puzzle your brains to invent methods
of amusing and entertaining the little boys
at home, at almost any cost or trouble, than
to send them out to play and have them
contract habits that are contrary to the spirit
and genius of the Gospel and its teachings.
	I have frequently heard the remark by
mothers, "I can do nothing with that boy, I
shall turn him over to his father." I never
hear it without thinking how much better
it would be to make persistent efforts than
to give up like that. Mothers can do much
in their own peculiar  way with the boys.
They will almost invariably listen to the
pleading of mother when they are young
and their consciences are pliable and tender.
	"Idleness is the parent of vice," is as
true to-day as ever; and one fact is appar-
ent, that while little girls are taught indus-
trious habits, in nine cases out of ten the
boys are left to play in the streets, and are

[Column 2]

often told to go, because they are noisy and
troublesome. Alas! for the nerves of the
poor mother; they may be terribly shocked
some day, when she becomes aware that her
boy has become reckless and a prodigal.
There are many useful things that boys can
do that are not in the least unbecoming
their dignity as the future race of men; and
they will be all the better, and happier too
if they are employed, instead of idling
away their time upon the streets, pattern-
ing after those whose example is not worthy
of imitation. I have only alluded to the
evil of smoking, but believe me there are
many companion evils among the boys upon
our streets that need to be guarded against.
	THYRA.


TEMPERANCE.

	Temperance is a word which compre-
hends a very great proportion of our moral,
social and spiritual welfare. A temperate
course of life in all things tends to our well-
being, and without it we are not prepared
to enter upon any path of life that will be
useful. The opposite, intemperance, is one
of the greatest evils that now exists in the
world. Who could number the homes it has
made desolate, the misery it has caused? I
have often wondered what has occasioned
the most misery, and I believe, that were
they all numbered, we would find that in-
temperance has been the greatest evil.
Many measures have been adopted to check
the rapid growth of intemperance. Wo-
men have sought, by prayers, entreaties
and tears, both in public and private, to
save from ruin their fathers, husbands, sons
and brothers, but only in rare instances has
it been possible to accomplish the desired
good. The children of the Latter-day
Saints are instructed to abstain in early life
from the use of anything that will create
an appetite for those things which are poi-
son to the human system, and which change
men from their own noble natures to brutes
and fiends in human form; and bring want,
misery and ruin as their inevitable conse-
quence. The heritage they leave for those
they once fondly loved and cherished,
broken vows, broken hearts, hunger, want
and sorrow, and for themselves disgrace,
degradation and a drunkard's grave.
		BEATRICE.
	Salt Lake City, May, 1876.


A GREAT writer says: "Men need wives
who are in love with them; simple tolerance
is not enough to stand the strain of married
life." Very true. But let us also remark,
women need husbands who are in love with
them; simple tolerance is not enough, &c.
	A DISPATCH from Geneva announces the
death of Edouard Henri Girardet, the paint-
er and engraver. His father was Charles
Samuel Girardet, an engraver. His broth-
ers are Karl, a painter, and Paul, an en-
graver. Edouard was born at Neutchatel,
July 21, 1819, studied in Paris, and after-
ward traveled in Egyyt and Algeria with
his brother Karl. Since 1839 he has been a
frequent exhibitor and the recipient of sev-
eral medals for genre painting, and one for
engraving.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

THE CHARACTER AND CALIBRE OF
WOMAN.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	When I have spoken of women of a past
age, I do not do so with the idea that they
have no equals, or successors; I well know
the world teems with "mute inglorious
Miltons"—women as well as men—and I
most especially know such are among our
own community to-day, and ever have been
since the Church of Jesus Christ was organ-
ized upon the earth. It must be so, because
it is a Church of principle, and the sign of
the covenant is sacrifice; for the Lord said,
"Gather me together a people who have
made a covenant with me by sacrifice."
And this has in many instances been ac-
tually as severe as to Abraham, and indeed
more so, because for them there has been
no "ram caught in the thicket," as a sub-
stitute for their Isaacs; but truly their lives
have been "hid with Christ in God;" theirs
has in most cases been the "unwritten phil-
osophy of the 19th century."
	I have taken women in the past or present
age who have held prominent positions,
and therefore stand out in bold relief before
the world, as noble specimens of the cali-
bre, stamina and wisdom of woman, of her
ability and capability when she had a plat-
form on which she could develop herself.
Human nature is the same "yesterday,' to-
day and forever"—it is simply modified by
education, association and circumstance,
which bring out different phases of this
said human nature. The heroism of our
women has been in the silent endurance,
the noiseless fighting of the battle of life;
their biography has yet to be written, and
it will be most assuredly; they have a fu-
ture great, grand and eternal!
	There have been in all ages men and wo-
men in the world to whom it might with
truth be said, "Thou art not far from the
kingdom of God;" a voice will yet say to
them, "This is the way, walk ye in it," and
they will hear, and listen, and know it is
the voice of the Good Shepherd, and will
follow Him. But those women who have
come out of the world, and embraced the
principles laid down by their Savior, and
follow in His footsteps, and are taking daily
lessons in the school of their Lord, they
are becoming competent to judge historical
lives and characters with a clear and right-
eous judgment, and give the commendation
which some of them most richly deserve.
Of these, Josephine, the wife of the first
Napoleon, has claims on the women of this
people as a sister-spirit, greater than any
that I know of, or recall in history. She
passed through many ordeals, as severe as
any living woman; reverses the most se-
vere—poverty, imprisonment, condemned
to death at a certain hour, the husband of
her youth and the father of her children
thrown into prison, and by an unrighteous
judgment condemned to die by the awful
guillotine! her children and herself sus-
tained in her sad widowhood by the kind-
ness of loving friends, and all the fearful
etceteras of such trying circumstances.
Yet there was a more overwhelming trial
than all this, and the path that led to it was
grandeur and greatness, and the highest
earthly title, and a crown placed upon  her
head by the man to whom she gave her
hand, her heart, and, alas! her soul's wor-
ship. He loved, admired and appreciated
her—of this there can be no doubt—and he
allowed no hand but his own to place upon
her head the crown of France—the crown
of the renowned Charlemagne! and to the

[Column 2]

day of his death he ever spoke of Josephine
as the woman among women, the most per-
fect woman in France; and to eulogize her,
to shew her attentions etcetera, was the
sure way to find favor in his eyes!
	Yet, O man, man! Shall I tell it? He
sacrificed her, when he had come to the con-
clusion that she stood in the way of his
ambition!! Josephine had a son and daugh-
ter by her first husband, and Napoleon loved
them as his own children, and at one time
had decided that Eugene should be his
heir—whom he had exalted to be Viceroy
of Italy. Again, he decided that the son
of Hortense and his brother Louis should
succeed him; he was a child of great prom-
ise, but at five years of age this most be-
loved child died; and from that hour Jo-
sephine felt her doom was fixed. She had
brought no heir to Napoleon, and he had
determined that his dynasty must be es-
tablished; by degrees he intimated to Jo-
sephine the necessity of a divorce for the
good of France, and for the honor of him-
self. Every feeling of her soul collapsed
before the fearful prospect. She reasoned,
she contended; she loved France, she loved
her husband, he had been good to her, he
had been a father to her children, he had
exalted them to earthly grandeur and great-
ness; he was her hero, and her very soul
shrank in the prospect of being separated
from him. One evening, after a long dis-
cussion on the necessity of a divorce, Jo-
sephine arose, and taking Napoleon by the
arm, she gently drew him to the window,
she pointed out to him her star shining
brightly in the firmament, and said: "Be-
hold that bright star; it is mine! and re-
member, to me and mine, and not to thine,
has sovereignity been promised; separate,
then, our fates, and your star fades." It
had been foretold her in her youth that she
should be Queen of France, and though
she laughed at the time, it grew upon her
till it became a fixed idea in her mind—and
through her and her posterity did the regal
power indeed come. In many instances Na-
poleon shone by reflection through her. If
he was a man of destiny; she was most
conspicuously a woman of destiny, and
verily his co-mate, and Napoleon knew it,
till his ambition displaced reason from her
throne, and from that moment his star de-
clined, as Josephine told him it would.
These are facts before the world.
	But to return to Josephine. Could she
have known of the order of plural marriage,
by a legal constituted authority, how gladly
would she have presented Marie Louise to
Napoleon as his wife, and her prayers and
blessings would have adorned the presenta-
tion; anything would have been easy to her
could she still have remained his wife.
Could she have blest France and her hero-
husband, Josephine would have been a min-
istering spirit to both, yes to all, and Na-
poleon might have been saved the agonies
he passed through to gratify his ambition,
might have lived and died the world-re-
nowned hero that he most certainly was,
instead of dying an exile and a prisoner
alone on that vile, bleak rock, St. Helena,
excepting those devoted friends who vol-
untarily, and by their own request, accom-
panied him and remained faithful even
unto death.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

Elder E. J. Pearce, recently returned
from New Zealand, favored us with a call,
and handed us "The New Zealand Herald,"
containing a synopsis of a lecture delivered
by him in the Temperance Hall, Albert St.,


Auckland. Elder Pearce has been very
successful in his missionary labors, although
he met with some opposition and a little
persecution. We would say in this connec-
tion that some gentlemen and ladies of in-
telligence and education, who sailed across
from New Zealand in company with Brother
Pearce, called at our office and spoke in
terms of praise of his preaching on board
ship. They seemed to entertain for him
great respect. We have read with interest
the synopsis of his lecture as published, and
find it embraces an item of almost all the
principal events in the history of the
Church. He has also touched upon many
points of doctrine calculated to awaken an
interest in the minds of thinking men and
women to know more of the Gospel. He
has baptized some, who are ready to gather
home to Zion when circumstances will per-
mit them. We trust a new field of labor is
opening up among that people.
	ONCE more Salt Lake City has a home
Dramatic Club. We hope it may afford the
theatre-goers as much entertainment of a
useful, moral character as the one organized
shortly after settling  in this valley. The
first performance given by these young
amateurs was "The Romance of a Poor
Young Man" which was a good selection.
The different parts were appropriately dis-
tributed, and seemed to suit the style and
character of each respective performer.
Miss Lottie Claridge, as Marguerite, looked
and acted the heroine admirably, and de-
serves great praise for her careful attention
to every particular. Mrs. Dellie Cummings,
as the jealous and spiteful governess, did
some fine acting. Mrs. Mamie Clawson
played "Mama" to perfection. Miss Lida
Wells, as Madame Aubrey was exceedingly
funny, and though she wept copiously the
audience laughed in proportion. She
dressed it in perfect keeping with the ec-
centric Dame. Miss Grundland as Louise,
and little Ivy Clawson were both piquant
and pleasing. The gentlemen surpassed
the expectations of their friends by far.
Mr. Cummings, as Manuel, the young no-
bleman, was graceful and noble in manner
and gesture. And his fine, clear voice
showed careful cultivation. Mr. O. F.
Whitney as Dr. Desmarets pleased every-
body, and evinced not only careful study of
his part, but a naturalness that cannot fail
to be attractive. H. M. Wells was quite at
his ease as the real French dandy, De Beva-
nnes, and certainly did his part towards
making the whole play a success. John D.
Spencer, as Laroque, played perhaps the
most difficult part, but he maintained the
dignity of the character perfectly. All the
parts were well rendered. This seems to
be the universal opinion. We congratulate
the young people on having made so favor-
able an impression with their first piece.
We understand the "Home Dramatic Club"
will make their next appearance on the
30th of May, Decoration Day.


SUNNY ROOMS.—Light is one of the most
active agencies in enlivening and beautify-
ing a home. We all know the value of sun-
light as a health-giving agent to the physi-
cal constituion; and it is not less so to our
moral than physical natures. We are more
active under its influence—can think better,
and act more vigorously.
	Even a gloomy house, where furniture
and walls are dingy and brown, we have
but to take down the heavy curtains, open
wide the windows, hang brackets on either
side, set pots of flowers on the brackets,
and let the warm sun stream in, to bring
health to our bodies and joy to our souls.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE SETTING SUN OF 1869.

In the West the sun is sinking,
	With a radiance grand, sublime;
And I'm thinking, sadly thinking,
	'Tis the last of sixty-nine.

On the mount his rays still linger,
	Loth, it seems, to say farewell,
But old Time's resistless finger
	Bids the parting words to tell.

Oh, how many hopes and pleasures
	He has seen on earth decay—
Radiant dreams and countless treasures,
	In the short year passed away

Bitter scenes of pain and sorrow,
	That would chill the strongest heart;
Souls that have no bright to-morrow,
	Pierced to deep by misery's dart.

Life, oh, life! how much of bitter
	In thy purest cup of joy!
Even thy brightest flowers wither-
	Sin and death will still destroy.

But the sun's last rays are lending
	To the vales a golden glow,
And with twilight beauties blending,
	They a heavenly power bestow;

And I hear the angels singing
	Of the great and glorious day;
Louder yet their anthems ringing,
	Christ the power of sin shall slay.

Haste, oh! haste the glorious beaming
	Of the great Millennial day,
When the sun in splendor teeming,
	Finds but joys that he or decay.

Written Dec. 31, 1869.	HOPE.
Sarah E. Rumel


"THERE IS NO PLACE LIKE HOME."

	This poetic phrase is no less beautiful
than true. We find that the fond attach-
ment of home pervades all ranks and classes
of society.
	The wandering Scythians, with no abid-
ing habitation, maintained great regard and
veneration for the place where the bones
of their forefathers slumbered. The Indian
of the American forests, whose dauntless
spirit never quails before a foe, has, never-
theless, a heart which beats with the warm-
est love towards his friend, and for the spot
where stands his wigwam. In civilized so-
ciety how do we find it? What is it that
binds every sympathizing feeling of the
heart around the cottage where our fathers
dwelt? Is it because there is more intrin-
sic worth attached to it? Or is it those
heaven-born associations which connect each
tree or flower,brook or rill,each hill and dale
with some joyful recollection of happy,
hours spent with beloved friends who now,
perhaps, sleep beneath the cold sod of the
valley? Yes, that tends more firmly to
rivet the ties of affection, to paint to the
imagination scenes which occurred at home,
and to call up from the wrecks of the past,
hours sacred to memory. Yet these asso-
ciations, joyous as they are, would sink into
comparative nothingness, if from that cir-
cle where we spent our youthful days in
the sunshine of pleasure, was removed a
mother! Yes, home, sweet as it is, would
bo like a Temple stripped of its garlands,
were it not for the sacred name of mother
to consecrate its portals.
	Like the evening dew which scatters its
fragrance while all else is wrapped in the
slumbers of night, the mother, while every
other ear is deaf, is attentive to our griefs,
mingles her tears in the cup of our misfor-
tune, and soothes our most fearful agonies,
stands by us even unto death. What a sol-
emn place for contemplation is the grave of
our mother! Then is it that we compre-
hend the charms that are conveyed in that
soothing word of all words, MOTHER—when
the grave has hidden her from our view.
	CAMELIA.


<dare of="" home.="" a="" true,="" woman—especially="" one="" who="" is<="" ac-i="" "="" 'qualnted1="" with="" tho="" design="" ofcfod="" in="" the="" last="" dajf="" s'-and="" understands="" so="" well'="" glory="" df="" being="" rhothei,—that="" wemariwe="" expect,="" will-="" never="" neglect="" her'’="" family="" :to="" obtaiu="" public="" honori="" ‘:="" jtla.="" -great="" many;="" get="" this="" question="" .very="" imuch="" mix'cd="" up.="" we:="" fcel="" p-="" sincere="" pity,="" ’for="" thoso-who'="" are="" ad="" much.="" prejudipedjby.="" -l="" traditidfiary="" ideas,="" they="" cannot,="" trat="" itwith1="" dear="" unprejudiced,="" mjpd.="" .="" ,y,="" 4="" r:="" ;.we="" acquainted="" .with="" certain="" gentle="" -="" 'men,="" whom="" it="" worries="" very,="" they;="" s.rcar="" is="" going="" tq,.subtract="" from="" their="" own="" dignity,="" ipr="" firpnaen="" to,="" hold="" oflipej.="" or="" gepn-="" tpyery.remunerative="" employment.',="" superi.="" ority,="" sjsuch="" sweet="" thing!="" some="" people="" fltahe,anjd="" suck="" ,l="" like="" sugar="" plum.="" 'good="" wpmah="" wijl.give="" honor="" where1!?="" is'="" due;="" fear="" tnat.="" ‘="" woman="" not="" losin="" biht="" object="" ber="" (crpati6q?wtibn="" she="" steps="" forth="" to'engage="" "’in,="" ‘pursuits="" and="" profeslons’="" distinct="" apart'="" momentous="" age;="" art="" science="" are'making="" wonder-'="" fill'strides.="" every="" thing,="" would="" seem,;="" which'="" can="" benefit="" ihlerest="" the’="" human="" familiyisf="" developed="" improved..="" cannot="" help="" feeling:.the="" impulse="" -‘="" given="" to="" generation..="" spirit="" god="" shares="" theinfllittlee.1="" bound="" to.rise.="" and.no="" human,="" power,="" i'can="" stop="" her="" progress.="" ..t="" what="" if="" sometimes="" the.fioor="" goes="" unsqrub.="" bed,or="" knives="" will="" npt="" vie-in="" brightness="" the.="" looking-glass.="" .would="" ,pot="" hurt,="" delay="" qiinor="" duties.="" -woman,="" should="" i,="" course,="" be="" wise="" epough="" draw="" aline,="" .betweon,the="" important,="" and,="" unimportant.="" many,="" stands="" idly="" looking="" jpn.1="" she.has="" 30opg="" confined,talent="" ah4="" energy="" yvithluh!="" spjime,”="" does="" pot="" realize="" how="" much="" natural‘bred="" has="" rgiven="" her.="" jjliye="" vfoman="" 'home:="" poor="" 1="" ha’s="" been="" hrow'beaten="" lobg="" onouhi="" put'="" pbssbksfdiiu'of="" iu:="" hhppiness="" she'was="" createdrfbr:="" let="" r'each"'6ut="" after’a="" more="" intelligent="" life;="" there="" no="" danger-'="" fbrgeuing’that="" 'she’is="" woman.'="" i'="" y="" 'loitah="" &j="" hill.="" beaver.-'i="" 1<="" div="">	THE IMPULSE OF THE HOUR.
	A great deal has been said  about wo-
man's mission," and yet the subject seems
inexhaustible. It is certain, that her indi-
vidualtiy is becoming more  distinct, more
clearly  defined.  Once she was content to
 stand behind her husband's chair, and serve
him at table, but now we find  her  out  in
the great  field of endeavor,  strengthening
her faculties like a man.
	We contend that  woman  was  not born,
merely to do the work between  four walls.
The office of  wife  and  mother  is  a  most
noble  one.  There  are  certain  duties  in
special circumstances of life which she can-
not  ignore;  but  why  confine  all  to  the
special sphere of taking care of home.  A
true woman-- especially one  who  is  ac-
quainted with the design of God in the last
days, and who understands so well the glory
of being a mother-- that woman, we expect,
will  never never neglect  her  family,  to obtain
public honor.
	A great many get this question  very
much mixed up.  We feel  a  sincere  pity
for those who  are  so  much  prejudiced  by
traditionary ideas,  they  cannot  treat it with
a clear unprejudiced mind.
	We are  acquainted  with certain gentle-
men,  whom  it  worries  very  much.  They
fear it is going to subtract  from  their  own
dignity, for women to hold office, or get in-
to very remunerative employment.  Superi-
ority is such a sweet  thing.  Some people
take and  suck it  like a  sugar  plum.  A
good  woman  will  give  honor  where it is
due; never fear that.
	Woman is not losing sight of the object of
her creation, when she steps forth  to engage
in pursuits  and  profesions  distinct  and
apart  from  home.  This is  a  momentous
age.  Art and science  are making  wonder-
ful strides.  Every  thing,  it  would  seem,
which can benefit and  interest  the human
family, is being developed, and improved.
Woman  cannot  help  feeling  the impulse
given to this genereation. It  is  the  Spirit
of God, and  woman  shares  the  influence.
She is bound to rise, and no human power
can stop her progress.
	What if sometimes the floor  goes unscrub
bed, or the knives will not vie in brightness
the looking glass. It would  not  hurt  to
delay some minor duties. Woman  should
of course, be wise  enough  to draw  a line,
between the important, and unimportant.
	Many a woman  stands  idly  looking  on.
She has so long  confined talent  and energy
within a  certain  "sphere,"  she  does not
realize how much  natural  force  God has
given her.
	Give woman a home: poor  woman!  She
has been brow beaten long enough: put her
in possession of all  the  happiness she was
created for: let her  reach  out after a more
intelligent life; there  is no  danger  of her
forgetting that she is a woman.
FLORA S. HILL.
Beaver.


ART.

IMPROVED PROCESS.

	A new process of etching drawings, or
letters on glass, has been devised by Herr
Grune, of Berlin. The old method of etch-
ing was by means of dilute fluoric acid, in
which the unprotected surface of the glass
was eaten away. The new process avoids
many of the old difficulties, and enables the
workman to stamp, mark or ornament glass
as if it were paper. The principle applied
is as follows: The quality of the fluoric
acid used is the same as in the old process,


but the drawing is no longer made with a
substance absolutely proof against the acid,
but with another, protecting the glass only
to a certain point of time, thus showing, in
the drawing, the elevated marked opaque
appearance. For such a covering, almost
all the lacs oil varnishes, greasy printing
dyes, etc., except the solutions of asphal-
tum, gutta percha and caoutchouc can be
used. If applied thin, they yield to the
concentrated fluoric acid, even after a few
seconds, no matter how firmly dried they
may have become! If the substances for
covering are used simply for the above-
named purposes, they yield only a very
feebly-marked design, partly marked and
partly blank; but if dusted after applica-
tion with a finely-pulverized powder of
metal, copal, or any other substance capable
of rendering longer resistance to the fluoric
acid, the opaque drawing is obtained di-
rectly. This is the essential point of in-
vention. The practical execution of this
style of etching is carried out as follows:
The article to be decorated receives the
drawing by hand, stamp, or, as the case
may be, by transfer. For the material,
choose an oily lac mixed with a little paint,
so as to show on the glass. This done, dust
in the powder. When dry, dip the part
with the drawing into the fluoric acid, or
put the latter on with a brush and allow it
to remain a few seconds, or until the pow-
der begins to come off. Then rinse with
water. The greasy substance need not be
removed, as the fluoric acid absorbs it.—The
Watchman.
	CORAL FRAMES.—Have a frame made of
pine to fit the picture you intend to frame.
Then from the currant bush, or any gnarled
bush or tree, cut small twigs and tack them
to the frame with slender tacks; then melt
of yellow resin four parts and one part of
vermilion. While warm, apply with a
brush, or pour over with a spoon, covering
the twigs and the parts of the frame that
show. It is a good imitation of coral and
does not break easily.—Farm and Fireside.


LETTER FROM FRANCE POWER
				COBBE.

	To one of the Correspondents  of  the
"Woman's  Journal," and published  in  the
issue of April 3.
	"MY DEAR, KIND FRIENDS.-- I am not
dead! I have  been  reading  your  all-too-
kind  and partial  remarks  on  me, here  in
my office, in the midst of business life; and
awaiting a committee extending its influ-
ence all over the kingdom at the previous
election.
	"There is something half droll, half infi-
nitely solemn  in  thus seeing  what  will be
said and felt of me some day--no doubt not
far distant, since  I  am  fifty-eight years  of
age.  God grant  that  such  days  as  may yet
be allotted to me on  earth may be  so  spent
as to merit in some measure all  the  good
words which have been said  over me now!
	"It was  a  poor  lady--unknown  to  me
personally--who took my name, and whose
death was announced to as  to mislead.  I
am, thank God, not  only alive,  but  as  well
and strong as any woman of my years may
expect to be and I hope to strike more than
one blow for the noble cause of the Eman-
cipation of Woman before I die.
		Sincerely and gratefully yours,
				FRANCES POWER COBBE.
1 Victoria street, S.  W.  London, Eng.


IT is easier  for one  to  be  laughed out of
performing duties,  than  to  be  persuaded
into doing them.﻿


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT
EMMELINE B. WELLS.		Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates. Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00:  per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
 Exponent Office, Lower West  Room of the Council
House,  South  Temple  Street.  Business   hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONET.
						Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 15, 1880.


THE JUBILEE CONFERENCE.

	The Fiftieth Annual Conference of the
Church has closed its session and adjourned.
The meetings lasted three days, during which
time a great deal of important business was
transacted and much excellent instrnction
given in a powerful and impressive manner to
the saints. A good degree of the Spirit of the
Lord seemed to pervade the assembly during
the entire session of the Conference. According
to the testimony of some of the oldest members
of the Church it was one of the most enjoyable
Conferences ever held since the organization
in April 1880.
	The fact of its being a half century since the
commencement of the Latter-day work in an
organiz[-]d capacity, gave a peculiar sort of pres-
tige to the entire psoceedings, that will make it
memorable in the history of the Church, as a
time of general rejoicing; and indeed the char-
acter of the preaching was calculated to hallow
the occasion.
	There was much about it in keeping with a
year of Jubilee, and surely many hearts have
been made glad by the spirit of liberality man-
ifested by the brethren in remitting the obliga-
tions of the poor and unfortunate, and helping
them substantially, by distribu[-]ing one thous-
and cows and five thousand sheep, to the
widows and the destitute.
	This is indeed a new era of things and cannot
fail to bring down the blessing of heaven upon
those who are generously assisting in this grand
effort to bless the Lord's poor. The Scripture
says "the liberal man deviseth liberal things
and by his liberality he shall live." There has
been some positive proof of liberality during
this Conference and no doubt that "in blessing,
these will be blessed, who have, and will, aid
in this magnanimous work.
	Half the debt due to the P. E. Fund by the
poor has been canceled. One half of unpaid
tithing due has also been remitted. This will
assuredly give the people a fresh impetus to pay
the remainder.
	Another proof of the desire on the part of
those in antnority to bless the Saints is in dis-
tributing the wheat which has been stored by
the sisters for the benefit of Zion, among those
who are without the necessary seed for the pre-
sent season;last year having been an unusually
dry season and in consequence a failure in crops.
The sisters were called upon to vote first sep-
parately on this question. The Bishops how-
ever are to be responsible and the wheat is to be
returned after harvest. There is no doubt but
this is a wise move, and will be the means of 
doing a double good. The brethren will have
the use of the wheat for seed and the sisters
will have new wheat to store up for a time of
scarcity.


On the last day of the Conference the meet-
ing  was addressed by each of the Apostles in
turn.  Elder  L. Snow  was  the first speaker,
followed by Elders  Wilford Woodruf[-], Orson
Pratt C. C. Rich, Erastus Snow, F. D. Richards,
Brigham Young, Joseph F. Smith, Albert Car-
rington,  Moses  Thatcher  and  D.  H.  Wells
Pres. John Taylor closed with an eloquent and
earnest appeal to the people to live their religion
blessing them in the name of the Lord.
	The congregation  standing  sang  Doxology
and Conference was adjourned  until  Oct. 6,
1880.  Prayer by Elder Wilford Woodruff.


TWO DAYS MEETINGS.

	Two Days Meetings were held in the Salt
Lake  Assembly  Hall  Sunday  and  Monday
April 4 and 5 immediately preceding the An-
nual Conference  at  which  there  was  a  very
numerous attendance.  Much  good instruction
was given and the wavering and the evil doers
were rebuked,and exhorted to reformation and
repentance.  On Sunday opening remarks were
made by President John  Taylor.  Elder  Wil-
ford Woodruff then gave a  brief  summary  of
his  tour  through  the  settlements  South  in
Arizona and other places,  related  some  inci-
dents which transpired during his stay among
the Indians  and  gave  a  brief  description of
their houses  and  manner  of  living.  Elder
Moses Thatcher made  some  very  interesting
remarks about  Mexico  and  his  tour  through
that region of country.  Elder Thatcher said at
the time  of the  conquest  of  Mexico  by  the
Spaniards in 1530,  they  were  an  enlightened
people and possessed a knowledge of  the  arts
and  sciences,  especially  architecture.  They
had  written  history and  many  large  libraries
which the Catholic priest who followed Cortez
caused  to  be  burned. they have  preserved
sufficient history and tradition to  corroborate
the testimony in the Book of  Mormon,  in re-
gard  to  the  Savior's  visit  to  this continent.
They have a tradition  of 8 barges  crossing the
sea and of  the  compass;  also  a  sacred  record
having  been  concealed  in  the  earth. The
speaker spoke feelingly in regard to that race of
people and hopefully of their release  from  the
thraldom which had  bound them for 350 years.
Elder Orson Pratt gave a brief sketch of his ex-
perience in the early days of the Church;  said
he remembered the first conference he had at-
tended of Jan. 2, 1831, in a log house in Central
New York when there were about 70 or 80 mem-
bers. He referred  to the  year  of  Jubilee  and
the seventh day  of  rest,  which he considered
typical of  the seventh  thousand year  termed
the  Millennium  when  Christ  should  come.
Spoke of the literal sounding of seven trupets
and the  preparatory  work  for  the  literal re-
demption.
	Elder C.  C.  Rich  spoke  upon  necessity of
fulfilling duties building Temples  and Mission-
ary work.
	President Taylor  regretted  that  the  house
would not accommodate  more people.  Stated
that the Lord required of all the officers of His
kingdom a thorough principle of righteousness
and not a nominal religion.
	Elders Brigham Young, Joseph  F. Smith
D.H. Wells, Pres. Joseph  Young, Pres. A. O.
Smoot and Elder J. Van Cott each addressed
the meeting on the principles  of our  religion,
its duties and obligations, the necessity of liv-
ing  pure  and  holy lives, and  gave  much ex-
cellent instruction to the Latter Day Saints.
	Pres. Taylor made some closing remarks, and
adjourned the  meeting  to  the  Conference  in
the  Tabernacle  the  following  morning, April
6.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	A MEETING of the priesthood was held in the
Assembly Hall Thursday evening April 8th.
The meeting was addresed by Elder George
Teasdale, Apostle Erastus Snow and President
John Taylor. The authority of the sevesal
classes and callings of the priesthood were dis-
tinctly set forth and much general instruction
rich with inspiration was given.
	A. M. Musser, Secretary of the Utah Silk
Association, announces that they are now pre-
pared to purchase cocoons and reeled silk.
Those having cocoons and reeled silk for sale
will please call on Paul A. Schettler, Treasurer
of the Association, at the City Hall in this
city, and he will pay them the highest market
price for them, according to their quality. Ac-
tive preparaiions are being made for the erec-
tion of a silk factory, and as the machinery is
ready for use, the building only is wanting, and
the people may look hopefully to the success of
this most laudable enterprise. The books are
still open for shares, and the brethren and sis-
ters have the opportunity of ensuring shares
by paying twenty-five per cent. down.
	THE Deseret Sunday School Union held a
general meeting in the Assembly Hall Wedns-
day evening April 7, Superintendent Gorge
Goddard presiding. Out of the 21, Stakes 14
were represented. Addresses were made full
of good instruction by Superintendents G,
Goddard, of S. L., D. John, of Utah, J. G.
Bleak, St. George, R. Ballantyne, Weber Stakes
and by Apostle Woodruff, who gave an inter-
esting account of his travels among the Indi-
ans in Arizona. In one of the meetings where
he spoke to them of their origin and future
destiny one old Indian testified that these were
the men they had been looking for, who were
to come and tell them of their forefathers and
what they should do to be saved from the
curse that had come upon them. Our people
in Arizona were living in the United Order.
and there was no contention, swearing, smok-
ing, or drinking among them. Every settle-
ment had a Sunday School. Supt. S. L. Evans
called attention to a banner presented to the
Union by Katie Chase, The Hall was crowded
with people from all parts of the Territory.
	The monthly meetings will in future be held
in the Assembly Hall, and all connected with
or interested in Sunday Schools are cordailly
invited to attend.
	A MEETING of the Young men's Mutual Im-
provement Associations was held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall Tuesday evening April 6,
1880. Present on the stand Pres. John Taylor,
Apostles, W. Woodruff, C. C. Rich F. D. Rich-
ards, Joseph F. Smith, Moses Thatcher and
D. H. Wells. Presidents of Salt Lake and
Utah Stakes: Junius F. Wells,Milton H. Hardy,
and Stake Superintendents and Representa-
tives from other counties.
	After singing and prayer President Taylor
addressed the meeting, making suggestions ex-
plaining and defining the nature of the organ-
izations and speaking at length upon the writ-
ten suggestions which were read before the
meeting. After Pres. Taylor finished his in-
structive remarks and explanations, Apostle
Willord Woodruff was nominated for General
Snpreintendent, with Apostles Jos. F. Smith
and Moses Thatcher as his assistants. These
nominations were carried unanimously. 
	Superintendent Woodruff then briefly ad-
dressed the meeting, oxpressing his interest in
the work of mutual improvement among the
young, and called for the statistical report, the
totals of which were accordingly read as fol-
lows:


Stake organizations  20; associations 240;
members 9,284; attendance  5,828;  quarterly
conferences 43; weekly meetings 2,458; conjoint
sessions 592;  extra meetings 145;  total meetings
3,  171;  visitors  sent  1,311; visitors received 1,
143; visits of county  and  general  officers  384;
members gone on missions 71; libraries 81;  vol-
umes 3,084; value  of  books $3,370. 45; man-
uscript  papers  283; financial exhibit showed
cash and  other property  on  hand $3,794.87;
Scripture reading,  total  chapters  read  76,942;
subjective  lectures  given 3,003; testimonies
borne 3,295. 
	Elder Junius F. Wells  addressed the  meet-
ing for a short time referring to the work which
had been accomplished by the Associations  in
the past  and  the  number  of  young  Elders
member of these organizations  that  had been
called upon missions.
	After the reading of the Report Superintend-
ent  Woodruff made a few remarks,  and  called
for a vote of the people  to  sustain  the  sugges-
tions of the Apostles  in relation to the organ-
ization, which  was  unanimous. A  preamble
and  resolutions  respecting cruelty  to  animals
and the killing  of birds  was  presented and the
sentiments expressed therein  voted upon.
 The meeting  was  dismissed  by  President
John Taylor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	I should like my voice to  be  heard in behalf
of the Richmond sisters and I am happy to say
as a unit they are  willing  to  do  their  part  in
humility to help roll on  the kingdom in their
sphere, visiting the sick, relieving the wants of
the poor,attending their  meetings and striving
to be in very  deed  helpmeets to the Priesthood
of the living God.
	Since my last we have  had  our  Society  re-
organized.  Sister  Almyra Merrill  is  now our
President; Sisters  Julia  Petty  and Betsy
Brower Counselors and Sister  Mary  Allsop;
Treasurer, who all desire by the help of God to
do what is required of  them  in  all  humility
and meekness.  Our finances are  not  very ex-
tensive; we meet  in  the  Meeting  House but
we are  looking  forward  shortly to be  able to
erect a house of our own  where the sisters will
have an  opportunity  of meeting  together and
rejoicing in the principles  of  truth they  have
espoused.  We are trying  to do  our duties  as
sisters in the Relief  Society  and  striving  to
keep pace  with the times;  we attend  the  sick,
look after the  wants of the poor, and if we fail
in any duty it is  through  ignorance  and  not
willful neglect.  We are  ever  pleased  to  read
the EXPONENT.  It is a good  little  paper  and
may  the  blessings  of  God  attend  those  who
through its columns are advocating the Gospel
truth[-].
	And now a few  words  about  woman.  We
read in the Bible of woman  being  created  for
man's companion and helpmeet,  standing  by
his side: when  she was  tempted  she  ate  the
forbidden fruit,then tempted Adam and he did
eat (which by the by  proved she  was the best
in argument)  the Lord cursed  her  thus,  "Thy
desire shall be to thy  husband and he shall rule
over thee"  ect.  etc.  Rule over thee!
	These are  the times  of  the restitution of all
things as it was in the beginning.  Hence this
curse has to be removed.  God bless  the  noble
and the  true-hearted  women  at  home  and
abroad.  May their watchword ever be upward
and onward.
	May God bless all our  endeavors  to  further
the work of God on the earth.
								B.J.B.


CLASS IN OBSTETRICS

	Having had  a  number  of  applications  fo
instruction  in  this  department  of  medicine I
will commence a class in  Obstetrics,  May  1st,
or near that time.
	Further particulars can be had by letter.
					ROMANIA B. PRATT
	Salt Lake City.


OBITUARIES

DIED:  in the 4th Ward Salt Lake City March
4th 1880, of Paralysis of the brain,  Mary  God-
sall; born June 22, 1804 at Westup's Hall, Parish
of Cannon, Spraun,  Herefordshire,  England,
was baptized in the fall of 1847 at Brimingham
England. Emigrated to  Utah in 18[-]6. Being
belated on the frontiers was compelled to  join
the Hand Cart company at Devils Gate. She had
driven an ox team up to that time and attended
her sick husband  and  others  of her  family
arriving  in Salt Lake  City  the  latter  part of 
November the same year. She was  appointed
President of  the  4th  Ward  Relief  Society  of
this city Feb. 8th 1864, and has  always  per-
formed her duty faithfully  and  lived and died
true to her covenants.  				J.S.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Harriet Fairbanks was the  daughter  of  Jo-
seph  Fairbanks  and  Polly  Brooks  Fairbanks
and was born March 28, 1819, at  Sandy Hill,
Washing[-]on on Co., New York. She moved to the
State  of New Jersey, Mead's  Basin [-]a[-]se near
Patterson, with her parents in early childhood.
She heard the Gospel and received its principles,
and was baptized in the  spring of 1842.  Soon
after and preparatory to  her  emigration  she
resided in New York City, and was married
there to Dr. Henry I.  Doremus  May 12,  1844.
In the Fall  of the same year with her husband
arrived at  Nauvoo;  where  she  shared  in  the
persecutions of the L. D. S., and  in  their  ex-
odus from that place, arriving in Winter Quar-
ters(Florence)in 1846.  In  the following Spring
commenced  journeying across the plains with
the first company  of Saints  who  followed the
Pioneers, and reached the  Valley on  the  first
day of Nov. 1847.  Ever since that time she had
resided  in  Salt  Lake  City.  Her death oc-
curred March 10, 1880.  Sister  Doremus  was
a faithful  Latter-day  Saint,  her  record  is
irreproachable.  She was the  mother  of  four
children, two of whom died in childhood.  One
son Abraham  F. and  one  daughter  Ann  now
the wife of Willard B.  Richards of Mendon are
still living.
	Dr. Doremus husband  of  the  deceased  is
widely and favorably known  among this com-
munity as one of our teachers  in day[-] gone by
in which profession  his  wife assisted him very
efficiently.
 She has gone before him, but her gentle man-
ner, her  amiable  deportment, and pure life
will live in the recollection of her family  and
friends  forever.  We  extend  our heartfe[--]
spmpathy to the bereaved husband and family.


[Column 1]
			ADDRESSED

	TO THE 17TH  WARD  RELIEF SOCIETY.
	Dear Sisters and Friends: Again our Treasur-
er has been  taken from  us  by  death.  Sister
Harriet Doremus departed this life on Tuesday
March 10, 1880.  She was  elected Treasurer of
this Society, in June 24; 1875 to fill the vacancy
caused by the death  of Sister  Eliza  A. Felt.
[Column 2]
She has faithfully, kindly and  honorably  dis-
charged the labors pertaining to this office, un-
til last  September,  when  her  health  utterlly
failed, and she resigned  the office for a  season
of rest.
	There are none of us who did not love and re-
spect her and those who knew her best  loved
her most. Out hearts were all wrung by her
long suffering,  and her  dying  hours  spread a
vall of gloom over the whole Society.
	We feared that we should  have to part with
her yet hoped and prayed  that  God would  re-
store her,to live a few years mo[-]e of usefulness.
	Many of you will remember a Meeting held
in the School House, a year ago  last  August,
when she spoke of how  well  she felt in the
Church of God and how earnestly she desired
a long life that she might do good;  she had no
other desire, but our  All  Wise Father  knows
best, and we must submit to His will.
	Her family have lost a noble faithful mother
we a loving friend, a kind sister endeared to us
by association and the ties that bind us togeth-
er, as a band of God's daughters; who are strug-
gling in an humble, feeble way, to do good and
work righteuosness,  while  here  in  exile  far
from Him, that we may receive words  of  ap-
probation,  when  we go home.
	Let her example, her pure humble life, be an
example to us, who are still on the journey.
We must work a little longer, be  tried a  little
more, wander a little longer through this weary
world,  that  we  may  prove  our  integrity  our
faithfulness, and see if we will hold firm to the
Iron Rod through sufferings  and  sorrows even
unto Death.  This Sister Doremus has  done.
Kept  the  faith; been  true  to  her integrity,
humble in her walks of life, and has now gone
to her rest.  Well and truthfully it was said  of
her, "She was one of God's noblest daughters

In the grave thy body's resting, deep they sleep  so free
	from care,
After sorrow fierce and trying, naught can hurt or try
	thee there.
Calmly  as the  sun at  evening,  goes to rest in clouds of
	gold,
So the life so good and noble, leads thee  to the shepherd's
	fold.
									L[-]D ALDER

	DIED, at her residence in the 16 h, Ward,  on
Sunday morning, March 28th,  1880,  at  ten
minutes past five A. M.,  Mrs. Bestsy Quimby
Roundy, widow of  the  late Sadrach Ward
Roundy  former  Bishop  of the 17[---] Ward.
	D[-]cessed was born in  the  town  of Lun[-]n-
burgh,  Essex County,  State of Vermont;  on
the 20th day of June, 1793. Was baptized  by
Elder O[-]son Hyde in the year 1832; passed
through all the trials  and  tribulations vi[-]i[-]ed
upon the Saints, without murmuring, firm and
unwavering to the faith  she  had  embraced;
ever ready to share her bread with the hungry,
to comfort  the afflicted  and  succor  the  dis-
tressed.  She was the mother of ten children,
had seventy-one grandchildren and  seventy-
three great  grandchildren;  she  had taken to
rais[-] ten motherless children, and nobly per-
formed a mother's part to them.  During the
past three years she had been sorely afflicted
being almost entirely helpless for twenty-one
days she had been  speechless and  unable  to
partake of food, yet, whilst unable to speak she
was quite conscious to the last, and several
times made signs that she wished the adminis-
tration for the sick,  earnestly  desiring  to  be
healed; at last she passed quietly  away,  and
will now sleep until the resurrection  of the
just. 
	Califronia and New York  pape[-]s please
copy,--Com.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The Relief Society of Holden was reorganized
Febuary 3d 1880 with Sister Maria Ashby Pres-
ident Emma J. Bennett and Mary A. Tanner,
Counselors; Olive  Stevens  Recording, and
Pauline Larson,  Corresponding  Secretaries
Hursillar Nixon, Treasurer.  Our society is in a
very thriving condition.  We have 51 members
enrolled  and  we  are  progressing favorable.
Our testimony meetings are held monthly and
working meetings  semi-monthly  they  are
generally well attended.
	On the 15th of March we celebrated the tenth
anniversary of the first organization of our soci-
ety, when the retiring officers were each pres-
ented with a handsome portrait of our beloved
President John Taylor.  We have a new meet-
ing house nearly  completed,  which will be a
great credit to our society when  finished.  A
general good feeling prevails  and a  desire  is
manifested to aid the cause of truth.
	Ever Praying For The Welfare Of Zion.
					PAULINE LARSON.
					OLIVE STEVENS.

	The Y. L. M. I. A.,	of East  Mill  Creek  was
organized March 1879.  The  following are  the
officers now acting.  Miss S. A. Skidmore Pres
Miss E. V. Ranck and Miss B. M.Moses, coun-
selors, Miss H. S.  Stillman Sec'y.  Miss D. H.
Neff, Asst. Sec'y,  and  Miss L. Osguthorpe,
Treasuer; Mrs. A. E. Neff  Supt.  Mrs.  F.  M.
Neff Editor, and Mrs. M. M. Fisher Asst.
	We hold our meetings once in two weeks;
our exercises consist  of select reading, recita-
tions, songs, dialogues, and lectures.  We edit
a monthly paper  entitled "The Ladies' Gar-
land."  The members in all number 50. the
average attendance is 30 or 35.  Financial re-
port.  Received from parties $20.65, from Sister
Amy Smith 10 cts. Total $20.75; Disbursements
$19.25.
						H. S. STILLMAN, Sec'y.

				WEBER STAKE.

	The Quarterly  Conference, of Ladies Re-
lief Society, held in Ogden City, in the Tab-
ernacle, March 18th, 1880.
	There were  present,  Apostle  Richards,
President Peery, and Counselors,Bishops of
Ogden and  some  from  the  settlements.
Sister E. R. Snow, Zina D. Young, and J. S.
Richards and Counselors Sisters Herrick and
Brown and many others,both here and from
the different parts of the county.
	After the  usual  opening  exercises,  the
minutes of the previous meeting were read
and accepted. sister Brown then read the
reports of the  several  Wards,  after which
Sister Richards  made a  few  opening re-
marks.  Was glad to be able  to  meet with
us, had proved how good it was  to be  able
to attend  after  being kept  away.  Felt
thankful  to see  Sister  Snow  and Sister
Young. Sister Snow had a severe cold, but
through faith in God, was able to attend to-
day.  Sister Richards said she missed Sister
Frodsham, this being the first  Conference
since her death.  Sister  Frodsham  in  her
last moments, blessed  the  sisters for  their
help and kindness to her during her illness;
she showed a truly greatful  spirit, and felt
that she was going to her rest in peace, and
being overcome,  she  could  say no  more;
and hoping  that  God  would bless  us with
His Spirit, she gave way.
	Sister Young was pleased  to  be  able  to
meet with her sisters.  Asked  an interest
in their prayers.  Felt that we were blessed
above all other women; she spoke of Sister
Frodsham, and said she had gone home,
[Column 2]
and we could say, well done thou good and
faithful servant.  She felt thankful for
these organizations.  Let us be united.
There is more need of it now than ever be-
fore.  Spoke of doing  the work  for our
dead; said we should not neglect this great
duty.  We could weep  for sinners,  but not
for those who  live  in  the  light.  Let us
live and work while we can.  We must not
feed on chaff instead of wheat, when we can
have the spirit of  God dwelling with in  us.
We are better wives and mothers and shed
sunshine  around  all  we  come  in  contact
with, but without it we  can  do  nothing.
Said we must make a success of silk culture;
we want to supply the various  trades with
sewing silk--there  is money  in  it.  Said
when we study refinement and the principles
of life, and what we should be,  we  should
learn the principles of health in everything.
Said we should be very  careful in speaking
before children, as they will notice  and re-
member everything, whether it  be evil  or
good;  never speak evil  of  any one  before
them.  Do not tarnish  their  young  minds.
Let us try  to do  our  duty everyday.  We
have the  privilege of prayer,  whether  our
companions or husbands are  with  us or  not;
we can ask God to bless us and our children.
See to it, mothers, that the home is happy
enough to make the boys as well as the girls
happy, and love to stay there.  She blessed
all in the name of  the Lord.
	President Peery said: Sister Snow is now
76, years of age, and if she could come all
the way from  Salt  Lake  City  to  attend
our  conference,  that  we  surely  could
attend  who  live  here.  If  what  the
Lord  has  said  is  not  true,  we  have
lived  in  vain.  The  happiest  part  of
our life is when the  spirit  of  God is with
us.  It is  much  better to talk of the  prin-
ciples of our  religion  than to gossip.  Men
are better  who  consult  with  their  wives.
The women are better and  purer than  the
men.  The speaker  had heard the  name of
Sister Snow all over the  States long  before
he come to Utah, and said her name will be
spoken by thousands yet unborn, who will
look back  with  pride  and  pleasure  upon
the great work the women have done; and
they will be blessed.
						2 P. M. 
	After the usual singing and prayer Presi-
dent Eliza R. Snow said:  I  am  not  abroad
because I particularly  desire it;  some of  us
are more  at  home, others  less  than we
should be.  It is  sometimes  difficult to tell
when we are doing  the  most  good;  we
should seek wisdom  and learn to know our
Father in Heaven  and  to  keep  open  the
channel of communication  between us  and
Him, for there is such a connection between
our spiritual and temporal  natures that  re-
freshing influence upon one affects the other.
The  wisdom  of  God  has placed us in these
institutions, that by finding intercourse and
associations we may improve.  The institu-
tions of the  world will not  elevate us as the 
requirements of the Gospel will--we must
stoop, not rise, to conquer, and ought to be
more  united  than  we  are.  Allusion  has
been made to what we have  done, but this
is not enough;  we want as  many as can  to
take a share  and  show an  interest  in  the
silk culture, the brethren as well  as the
sisters, if they will.  An  association is
already organized  and incorporated,  with
Bro.  Wm. Jennings as its president.
	The resignation of Sister Josephine West
having been accepted, Sister  Elizabeth Y.
Stanford was elected  corresponding  secre-
tary instead.
	Sister Snow presented the  nomination of
Sister Harriet M. W.  Poulter  for secretary
[Column 3]
of Weber Stake Relief Society, and she was
unanimously  voted in.
	Apostle F.  D.  Richards  reminded  the
societies present of Pres.  Brigham Young's
last request of the  sisters  in  Weber  county
that they persevere and raise mulberry trees
and make the silk  for  their own  use,  that
our  clothing  ought  to  be  better  than the
shoddy outfit  of the  world as  our  gospel
faith is better than  their religious  dogmas.
We want to unite our faith  and  our  efforts
so that our  spirits  will  flow  together  like
drops  of water that  cannot be separated.
God has provided  proper  tribunals  in  the
Church for the adjusments of all our mis-
understandings, whether  of a business or a
doctrinal  character,  whether  of  things
temporal or  principles  spiritual,  that  can
affect the welfare of any one in the Church.
 The Relief  Societies  are  organized  in
such perfect harmony with the order of the
Church and of  the  priesthood  that there is
no occasion  for  any  discord  between  the
officers or members of one, and any  officer
or member of the  other,  either in a Stake
or ward capacity.  The presidents and bish-
ops with the aid of the societies are enabled
to carry any measures or information, neces-
sary to further the interest of  the  Church,
into  ever  family  and  household  of  the
Saints so that not only the destitute, but the
sick  are found our and their necesities
administered unto.  Most of the Presidents
and Bishops have learned  to  properly  ap-
preciate those aids and helps  to  them in
thier government, while the few who have
not,are afflicting themselves with unfounded
apprehensions, spending  their strength un-
necessarily and are behind the times in the
spirit of their work.
	Counselor L. J. Herrick and Bishop F. A.
Hammond  endorsed the sentiments of the
speakers alluding especially  to the remarks
of Sisters Snow and Young.
	Friday morning  was devoted to the Con-
ference  of Y. L. M. I. A.,  begining with
the usual exercises and  the reading of min-
utes.  The reports were  good  and  showed
that 5,948 chapters had been read in Church
works during  the  quarter.  Remarks were
made by Sisters  Sarah  Herrick, Emily S.
Richards and Zina D. Young, and then Pres-
ident John Taylor addressed the congrega-
tion.  He was pleased with the labors of the
sisters in their efforts to instruct the young.
He spoke on education; many of the ideas
of the people of the  world  were  erroneous
regarding education,  and  many  of  them
were correct.  Some who had attended in-
stitutions of learning considered their  edu-
cation  finished,  but  as  long  as life lasted,
man and woman  had  something  to learn,
for their education must  be far above  that
of the present day before they were prepared
to associate with  intelligences  of the other
world.  It was of the greatest necesity that
boys and girls should learn to express them-
selves in  language intelligently, properly,
and understandingly, and at the same time
they should be taught the importance of the
position they hold to their parents and their
fellow-creatures.  Goodness,  courtesy and
obedience  went  far to  show  what chil-
ren were.  The Saints should not copy  the
example of the world  in  selfishness, they
should respect every man in  his  place in
honor preferring  one  another,  while  thus
doing they would make themselves happy,
and shed tranquility  and  joy to  all with
whom they associate.  In their homes the
young should make  themselves agreable to
everybody and especially to their parents.
By thus doing  they  would  have  helpers
behind the veil  to  plead  for  them  when
their parents had died and  they were left
struggling with the things  of this world


[Column 1]Parents should never do[-]an[-] act or utter a
word which they would be ashamed to
have their children hear.
	As high as the heavens were above the
earth, so high were the things revealed to
us above anything the world could teach or
knew anything about. The children should
seek God,call upon His name, having clean
hands and pnre hearts, and in the name of
God he promised them the Lord would
hear their prayers. By following this
course, the boys and girls would grow up to
walk as free, humble, virtuous and good
men and women in a world of a wicked
and perverse generation.
	He closed by asking the blessing of the
Lord to rest on all.
	The minutes of the meeting of the Prim-
ary Associations as a Conference will be
published in our next number [--]. M. W. P.

	TOOELE STAKE

	The Fifth Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Societies of Tooele Stake of Zion
was held in the meeting house on the 13th
and 14th of March, 1880. First day the
President, Mrs. M. A. Hunter, was detained
at home, and her first Counselor, Mrs. Eliza-
beth Clegg, presided over the meeting.
Visitors from Salt Lake City, Sisters Eliza
R. Snow, Zina D. Young and Elmina S.
Taylor; Elder Thomas Atkins, Counselor to
President Lyman, was present, and Mrs.
Jeanette De La Mare, President of Tooele
Relief Society. The weather was very un-
favorable, consequently the attendance was
not so large as usual. After singing and
prayer, the Secretary read the minutes of
the former Conference and reports from the
several branch societies. Mrs. De La Mare
gave a verbal report of Tooele R. S., repre-
senting it in a good condition spiritually
and temporally. Mrs. E. Clegg made some
opening remarks; and expressed her plea-
sure in having the sisters from Salt Lake
City. Mrs. E. S. Taylor addressed the
meeting, said many good things; dwelling
much upon the duties of mothers in train-
ing up their children and teaching them
the principles of honesty, integrity, virtue
and truth, having always a tender care over
them. Mrs. Zina D. Young spoke of the
great responsibilities of mothers, and the
neaessity of planting in the children, from
the earliest moment of their existence, the
seeds of intelligence. Referred to the Pri-
mary Associations as a school for spiritual
instruction, and made many pleasing and
excellent remarks. Sister E. R. Snow spoke
upon unity, confidence, the storing of grain
and sericulture; alluded to the recent or-
ganization of the Silk Association, and
urged the people to take an active interest
in this branch of home manufacture, and 
gave much general instruction. calculated
to awaken renewed interest in the Gospel.
Coun. T. Atkins bore testimony to the good
works of the sisters and the necessity of
union, faithfulness and diligence.
	The afternoon was devoted to the Primary
Association, and very suggestive and appro-
priate remarks were made by the sisters
from the city, and the children were highly
interested, and will ever remember it with
pleasure.
	Sunday morning Pres. M. A. Hunter ar-
rived from Grantsville. The Sunday School
convened, roll was called, minutes read,
when the usual lessons were dispensed with,
that the children might be addressed by
the sisters, E. R. Snow, Z. D. Young and
E. S. Taylor, who gave much good advice
and counsel to the children and young peo-
ple.
	Sunday afternoon: The Young  Ladies

[Column 2]
held their Conference, Mrs. Ann Tate, Su-
perintendent, presiding. Singing, prayer,
singing. Minutes and reports were first in
order, and the meeting was then addressed
by the sisters, who gave much good counsel
to the young ladies in regard to choosing a
companion for life; also in reference to
keeping good company, attending meetings,
and fulfilling every duty faithfully. To be
obedient to the counsel of those who pre-
sided over them, and listen to their teach-
ings and the whisperings of the Holy Spirit.
	Coun. James Ure made a few remarks.
Was much pleased to attend the Ladies'
Conference;  hoped the young sisters would
put into practice the good teachings given
them by the sisters, who had come in such
inclement weather from Salt Lake City to
meet with them. After singing and prayer,
Conference adjourned for three months.
	Saturday, the 20th of March, a very in-
teresting concert was given in the Social
Hall by the Primary Association of Tooele,
under the supervision of their President,
Rebecca Williams, and her Counselors. It
consisted of songs, recitations and dialogues,
prepared expressly for the occasion, and
great praise is due the children for the
pleasing way in which they rendered their
parts. The time was well spent, to those
who are interested in the welfare of the
rising generation.
	ANN TATE, Cor. Sec'y.
Tooele, March 27, 1880.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		MIDNIGHT SOLILOQUY.
<ui !="" i="" ,="" ’="" sitting;="" alone="" in="" the="" silence="" of="" the'="" nigh;,.="" see="" not="" that="" .which="" is="" around="" me,="" npr="" .aboutme,="" neither="" do="" peer="" out="" into="" t;jdarknes3="" to="" discern="" moon,="" or="" stars,="" in-'="" quite,="" “watchmani="" what="" hour?”="" my="" jmindr="" goes="" back="" “long="" ago.”="" yes,back,="" over="" higlt="" mountains="" encircle="" our="" beautiful="" valley,="" hemming="" us="" from="" all="" thfl,rpt="" .the="" world;="" broad,sandy="" plains,="" weary="" feet="" once="" gladly="" traversed,="" fleeing="" like="" a="" fugitive="" “our="" enemies,”="" those="" who="" mobbed="" and="" persecuted="" saints="" god;="" on="" over,="" the.high="" swelling="" rivers,="" across="" placid,="" waters="" ot="" bright,="" blue="" lakes,="" with="" their="" gay="" steamers,and="" proud="" stately="" sloops,="" and.="" schooners;="" yes,="" far,="" far="" away="" scenes="" connected="" days,="" whose="" glory="" has="" no.w="" departed,="" but="" where="" some="" happy="" moments,="" record="" deeply="" engraven="" on,="" heart’s="" tablets="" were="" passed.="" am="" living="" life="" again="" night,="" fancy,="" must="" make="" pen="" sketch="" vision;="" glimpse="" past="" overall="" else,="" sad="" thepainful,="" will="" '3arfifully.dra.wlha="" heavy="" curtain="" live="" imagination;="" as="" old="" people="" perhaps,="" this="" dif-="" ference;="" have="" never="" grown="" heart="" vthe="" grey="" hairs="" now="" thickly="" sprinkled="" jthe="" brown,="" pease="" strike="" me="" i$iii-pri3e="" when="" look="" glass;="" '“wise'="" does="" treble="" voice="" whenover="" pbottempt="" -sidg;="" it="" used="" ring="" 'mellower="" cadence="" once;="" wheli="" dear="" friend,="" net="" seen="" for="" years;="" -="" remarks="" most="" commonplace="" way,="" though="" very="" pleasant="" topic,="" “dear="" how="" you="" grown,111="" stop,="" hesitate="" confused="" embarassed,="" 'though="" an="" unwarrantable="" liberty="" tllat="" friend="" had="" taken.="" cannot="" realize="" youth="" fled="" front="" even="" grandchildren="" cliiater="" ‘="" round’="" knee.="" stay="" gone="" long,="" long="" oyer="" hill="" dale,="" —="" "="" river="" lake,="" skipping="" fairy,="" stillness="" midnight="" hour,="" softly;="" lest="" spell="" should="" break.="" bn="" until="" scene="" bursts="" upon="" tny="" view,="" be="" familiar="" seems="" yesterday,="" lived="" there="" in.="" innocence,secluded;="" nestled="" down="" “="" among‘the="" rpeky="" hills.="" ah,="" have1="" we="" here—the="" home—old,="" hrown="" dilapi-="" dated,="" shrubbery="" tangled="" neglected,="" arotmd="" desolate?="" isfo!="" hbme="" was,="" fresh="" bright;="" metblriks="" i-="" eyen="" tear="" glad="" voices="" ringing="" outln="" peal3of="" merry="" jaughfer,="" “bldon="" time.”="" house="" among="" trees.="" lilacs="" are="" in’="" bloom,="" seem="" toyeei="" perfunie;="" idw="" amdng="" thq.grasses,="" modest="" violets="" bright="" eyes="" hiding,="" emblems="" purity="" innocence-="" roses="" just="" budding="" beauty;="" humming="" bird's="" nest="" swinging="" branch="" juniper="" tree="" by="" open="" window,and="" soft="" white="" mus-="" lin="" tied="" dainty="" ribbon="" sways="" gracefully="" gentle="" breeze="" early="" summer="" which="" whispers="" through="" leaves="" green="" blends="" sweet="" chor-="" low="" murmur="" brooklet,="" glides="" drooping="" willows="" grasses.="" vl.="" only="" turn="" head="" there’s="" orchard'="" full="" bloom;="" air="" fragrance="" apple="" blossoms.="" oh,="" picture!="" thore="" trees="" climbed="" swung="" gnarled="" limbs="" singing="" lark,="" notes="" joy="" “in="" childhood’s="" 'hdur.="" every="" familiar,="" wo="" know="" them="" all;="" they="" friends,="" so="" closely="" linked="" recollec-="" tion="" those,="" whom="" flayed="" under="" ';="" shade="" days="" by.="" birds="" did="" then,and="" flitting="" bough-'to="" bough="" restless="" joy.="" meadows="" jdst="" beyond,="" thick="" cowslips="" buttercups;="" ve="" here?="" bevy="" blooming="" girls,="" hunting="" five-leafed="" clover!—what="" means="" it?="" remember,="" “loves="" loves="" not,”="" gullless="" ye="" thus="" learn="" your="" future.="" one,="" black="" eyed="" blue.="" whoro="" strolled,="" friends="" ef="" old,="" companions="" youth?="" susan,="" pale="" lily="" flaxen="" hair,="" louise,="" tall="" stately,="" sarah,="" brown="" gipsy,="" catharine,="" majestic="" queenly,="" butb,="" prim="" precise;="" frances,="" coquettish="" playful,="" gratia,="" original="" witty,="" lucia,="" almost="" oracle,="" irene,="" liquid="" lustrous="" eyes.thatone="" can="" avoid,="" last="" jane,="" good="" natured="" short="" dumpy,="" esquire’s="" daughter,="" might="" weave="" pretty="" little="" romance.="" leaving="" meadow,="" girls="" muslins="" sashes,="" dim="" woods.="" other="" side,="" 'the="" orchard,="" pasture="" be.="" yond,="" pasture,="" its="" honey-="" suckles="" freckled-lilies,="" gathered="" sweet,juicy="" berries="" “once="" time,'and="" stained="" fingers="" dimity="" apron;="" tree3="" a.century="" more.="" oak,="" maple,="" pine,="" hemlock="" ail="" varieties="" found="" forests="" new="" england.="" mosses="" velvet="" carpets,="" .here="" wide="" spreading="" branches="" learned="" many="" hard="" lesson="" recited="" o’er="" sro’ex="" snatches="" poems;="" weird="" thing,="" fcso="" neighbors="" said,="" loved="" pastures="" und="" rocks="" better="" than="" sofas,="" .or="" easy="" chairs,="" carpets="" preferred="" songs="" birds,="" parlor="" music="" however="" proper.="" was="" boughs,="" ’neath="" hardy="" old<="" div="">
	I am sitting alone in the silence of the
night. I see not that which is around me,
nor about me, neither do I peer out into the
darkness to discern moon, or stars, or to in-
quire, "Watchman! what of the hour?" My
mind goes back to the "long ago." Yes, back
over the high mountains that encircle our
beautiful valley, hemming us in from all
the rest of the world; over the broad,sandy
plains, that my weary feet once gladly
traversed, fleeing like a fugitive from "our
enemies," from those who mobbed and
persecuted the Saints of God; and on over
the high swelling rivers, and across the
placid waters of the bright, blue lakes, with
their gay steamers,and proud stately sloops
and schooners; yes, far, far away to the
scenes connected with days, whose glory
has now departed, but where some of the
happy moments, whose record is deeply
engraven on my heart's tablets were passed.
	I am living over my life again to night,
in fancy, and I must make a pen sketch of
the vision; a glimpse of the beautiful past.
Over all else, the sad or the painful, I will
carefully draw the heavy curtain of silence.
	Yes, I live over my life in imagination,
as all old people do perhaps, with this dif-
ference; I have never grown old in heart.
The grey hairs now thickly sprinkled with
the brown, never cease to strike me with
surprise when I look in my glass; as like-
wise does the treble in my voice whenever
I attempt to sing; it used to ring out in a
mellower cadence once; and when some
dear friend, who has not seen me for years,
remarks in the most commonplace way, as
though it were a very pleasant topic, "dear
me how grey you have grown," I stop, and
hesitate, confused and embarassed, as
though it were an unwarrantable liberty
that my friend had taken.
	I cannot realize that youth has fled from
me, not even when my grandchildren
cluster round my knee. But stay I had
gone a long, long way, over hill and dale,

[Column 2]
river and lake, skipping like a fairy, in the
stillness of the midnight hour, softly, lest
the spell should break. On, on until a
scene burst upon my view, so familiar
that it seems but yesterday, I lived there
in happy innocence,secluded; nestled down
among the rocky hills. Ah, what have we
here—the old home—old, brown and dilapi-
ated, shrubbery tangled and neglected, and
all around desolate? No! I see the old home
as it was, fresh and bright; methinks I
even hear the glad voices ringing out in
peals of merry laughter, as in the "olden
time." There is the dear old house among
the trees. The lilacs are in bloom, I seem
to feel their perfume; and low down among
the grasses, the modest violets with their
bright eyes are hiding, emblems of purity
and innocence. The roses are just budding
into beauty; and the humming bird's nest
is swinging on a branch of the juniper tree
by the open window,and the soft white mus-
lin curtain tied with the dainty blue ribbon
sways gracefully with the gentle breeze of
early summer which whispers through the
leaves of green and blends in a sweet chor-
us with the low murmur of the brooklet, as
it glides through the drooping willows and
soft grasses.
	I only turn my head and there's the old
orchard out in full bloom; the air is heavy
with the fragrance of the apple blossoms.
Oh, what a picture! There are the very
trees where we climbed and swung upon
the gnarled limbs singing like the lark,
glad notes of joy "in childhood's hour.
	Every tree seems familiar, we know
them all; they are like old friends, so
closely are they linked with the recollec-
tion of those, with whom we played under
their shade in days gone by. The birds are
singing now as they did then,and are flitting
from bough to bough in their restless joy.
	The meadows are just beyond, thick with
cowslips and buttercups; and what have we
here? a bevy of looming girls, hunting
the five-leafed clover!—what means it?
Ah, now I remember, "Loves me, Loves me
not," guilless girls, ye cannot thus learn
your future. I know you every one, black
eyed and blue.
	Where have ye strolled, ye friends of old,
	Companions of my youth?
	Susan, pale as a lily with flaxen hair,
Louise, tall and stately, Sarah, brown as a
gipsy, Catharine, majestic and queenly,
Ruth, prim and precise, Frances, coquettish
and playful, Gratia, original and witty,
Lucia, almost an oracle, Irene, with liquid
lustrous black eyes,that one never can avoid,
and last of all Jane, good natured short
and dumpy, the Esquire's daugher, of
whom we might weave a pretty little
romance. But leaving that scene in the
meadow, and the pretty girls in bright
muslins and gay sashes, I turn now to the
dim old woods. On the other side, just
past the orchard, and the hill pasture be-
yond, the pasture, yes, with its honey-
suckles and freckled-lilies, where we
gathered the sweet,juicy blue berries "once
upon a time,"and stained our fingers and our
white dimity apron; but to the woods.
Trees a century old and more. Oak, maple,
pine, hemlock and all the varieties found
in the forests of New England. Mosses
like velvet carpets, thick and soft. Here
under the wide spreading branches I learned
many a hard lesson, and recited o'er and
o'er snatches of poems; a weird little thing,
so the neighbors said, who loved pastures
and rocks and trees and mosses better than
sofas, or easy chairs, or soft carpets and who
preferred the songs of birds, to parlor
music however proper. Was it under the
hemlock boughs, or 'neath the hardy old


oak. it matters  not  which, that I sat  on a
summer's day, with  proud  ambition  burn-
ing in my soul,  ambition  to  be  great  and
known to fame, when a gentle whisper came,
I used to think it was a fairy and whispered
so strangely I scarcely comprehended, but I
know its purport:  "There is no excellence
without labor" you must  work, toll, not sit
idly indulging  in  fruitless day-dreams, but
active work must be done  if you would at-
tain to any degree  of honor, or be  useful to
yourself and others.  I caught  the  inspira-
tion of the  whisper;  it thrilled me through
and through, not only that once, but after-
wards many times in a similar strain.  Aye!
the whispers  that came to me away in  the
heart  of  the  dim, old  woods,  have  been a
sor[-] of talisman mid all the shifting changes
of an eventful life.
	I sometimes  think had it not been for
this solitary communion, which  was  like
silent inspiration to me, I might have been
an IDLE dreamer, giving  my  best  days, my
time and my talents to fiction and romance.
I was not only building "fairy, castles in
the air,"  but  actually weaving  bright  car-
pets for the  floors,  and  sketching  pictures
to  ornament  the  walls  of  these  magical
mansions of  enchantment.  But these mys-
terious  whisperings  were  cautions,  they
awakened highter thoughts and nobler am-
bitions.  I yearned  for a field of true use-fulness.
Well, my  soliloquy is  ended, and I will
come back from the  charming memories of 
the past, to the  green pastures and smiling
sunshine of the happy valleys in the moun-
tains;  and still methinks I hear a sof whis-
per re-echoing, which bids me work still, ac-
tively, earnestly,  diligently,  faithfully, not
for honor, or fame, or any  earthly reward,
for  they  are  all "hollow,  hollow;"  but  to
elevate,  to  strengthen,  to  comfort  and  to
bless  those  around  me,  that the dream of
my childhood,  with  its  impassioned  yearn-
ings, may be  at  length  in a measure ful-
filled, its restless longings partially realized;
not as I was wont  to  think  in  the  "long
ago," by a brilliant  career, but an inner
consciousness of having sought and found a
better way a  higher  and  holier  purpose,
than revelling,  though  delightfully,  in  the
enchanted land  of fiction.
	And now I fancy I hear some kind reader
say after finishing this long soliloquy, how
very  stupid  to  take as such  a  rambling
journey over hill and plain, skimming across
rivers and lakes, plunging us into the depths
of a grand old forest,  all to finish  by simply
telling us if we have an  ambition  to  be
great and wise, to attain  to fame,  we must
work.  Well,  gentle  friends,  excuse  this
tiresome  midnight  wandering,  and  when
next we sketch a pen picture for you, it
shall be of bluebells  and new mown hay
and the days when we went gipsying."
	AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMEN OF GENIUS
	"Women like  her," said Sainte Beuve,
speaking of Madame Roland, "will always
make  themselves a place, but they will al-
ways be exceptional."
	I have sometimes thought that the whole
truth  about  the  hackneyed  matter  of  the
"higher education,"  the  whole  philosophy
of what is  unpleasantly called  the  woman
question, is  summed  up in these words
Men of original  intellectual  force, creators,
organizers, directors,  whether  of  human
thought or human affairs, are not common;
but women of this type are a great deal less
common  than  men.  It is  worth while  to


make  arrangements on a large scale for the
careful and costly training of boys, which it
would be foolish and extravagant  to  make
for girls, because in the one case there is a
probability that the proportion to the whole
of those who are  worthy  of  such  training,
though small,  will be sufficient to repay the
outlay, and in the other  there  is  no  such
probability.  The  woman  of genius, when
she comes, must make her own place, and
Sainte Beuve  tells, and  experience  shows
us, that she  will.  And  when  the  lack  of
severe training is apparent  in  the  produc-
tions of such a woman,  we  may  partially
console  ourselves  by  reflecting  that  she,
probably, of all gifted creatures, can best
dispense with formal discipline.  Heaven it-
self  cannot  hinder  that  her  genius should
be feminine- that is  to  say,  of  the  kind
which  appropriates unconsciously, which di-
vines mysteriously,  which combines and ar-
ranges  with  an  instinctive  but  invincible
sense  of  harmony  and  proportion.  And it
would sometimes seem as if the free flow-
ering of such a genius were actually checked,
and  its finest  results  distorted, by a too as-
siduous  external  enrichment.  Witness the
infinite asides in "Daniel Deronda."- Har-
riet W. Preston in April Atlantic.


WOMAN'S  EDUCATION  IN FRANCE

	France has  agricultural  schools for  girls.
One  of  the  chief  is  near  Rouen, which is
said  to  have  been  begun  with  a capital of
one franc by  a Sister  of  charity and two lit-
tle  discharged prison girls; and  to be now
worth  $165,000.  This  establishment  has
300  girls, from six to  eighteen.  The farm,
entirely  cultivated  by  them,  is  over  400
acres in extent. Twenty -five sisters  form
the staff of teachers. More than one medal
of the French Agricultural Society has been
awarded to this establishment at  Darnetel,
and  the Pupils are in great demand all over
Normandy, on account of their skill.  They
go  out as  stewards, gardeners, farm-mana-
gers, dairy-women and laundresses.  Each
girl has, on leaving, an outfit  and a small
sum  of  money, earned  in  spare  hours. If
they want a home, they can always return
to Darnetal, which they are taught to regard
as  home.  It  is noteworthy also that  a
woman has just been placed in an important
educational position in France.  It is Mlle.
Juliette Dodu, who has  been  appointed by
M. Jules  Ferry delegate general for the in-
spection of the  schools  established  for the
reception of little children, under six years
of age.  Mlle. Dodu last year received the
ribbon of the Legion of Honor for splended
conduct during the war.


[Column 1]
DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures to the left]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST., OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX' 541.

NEW SPRING STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies
Ties Cu [-] anCollars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions
boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
goods. Etc., Etc.

[Column 2]
DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responped to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR

A LARGE STOCK
OF HOME MADE TRUNKS for sale by JOHN C. CUT-
LER. Agent of the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building, also Home-Made
Blankets,	Brown Yarn,		Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Sh[-]wls,	Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimeres,		Washboards,
Jeans		Tweeds,			Brushes, &c.

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes Country dealers,
please call Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special departments for Gent's Clothing
and Carpets, Ladies and Children's Shoes,
Dry Goods, Shawls and Domestics,
Groceries, Hardware and Stoves.

DRIED FRUITS of all CLASES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE.
IF not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and without any noise and confu-
sion, although the rate of speed is very high. Its se[-]-
setting and self-threading hu[-]tle, and absence of springs
and cogs renders it both simple and durable. Be sure to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend.
Victor Sewing Machine Co., Chicago, Ill.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
ABY CARRIAGEtS.
75, 77, & 79 First South St. S. CL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

