VOL. 8.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1879.	NO. 11.


[Column 1]
MARAH.

BY MARY J. TANNER.

The name I choose to give my heroine
Denotes not what her name might be,
But what her life implied.
There was no heartfelt sympathy
'Mong all the friends she knew.
That could be given to one
So near devoid of woman's lovely attributes.
Her face was passing fair, and smiles,
And youthful happiness adorned her brow.
She loved, "not wisely, but too well;"
The old, old tale was told,
And lip met lip with many
A silent vow. And in a moment
When wild passion sat on reason's throne,
She fell! Oh, when was woman's fall
Unwept, unmourned?

Stands there an angel by
To make a record of the misery
And woe, the deep repentant tears,
That such a fall must bring?
Why comes there not a warning voice
To chide her ere she pass the gates,
And tell her what a woman's fate
May be, if once she listens to the
Siren's song that lures her to destruction?
Some hand to hold her back,
Ere yet her steps have strayed
From virtue's paths?
Truth, reason, honor
Lean to virtue's side,
And if the mind be filled with
Light and love, its heavenly radiance
Will shine around the heart,
And woman's gentle mind will see
And understand the wiles
The wicked use to ensnare
Her tender feet.
But I digress, and ere the tale is told
My lamp is burning low;
But how can woman's hand record
The fate that falls to woman's lot,
Whose life by virtue unadorned
Essays to walk the slippery paths of sin?
How tell the sorrow and repentance,
The heartfelt pangs that rend
Her overburdened soul?
The deep despair, the terrible
Remorse that rends her heart,
While scanning o'er the murdered hopes
Her feet have trampled in the dust?
How can I tell of life, to penury
And want decreed, by virtue shunned,
By hope deserted,
And by love betrayed?
Where Marah might have gained a friend
She chose to walk her way alone;
Nor sought she sympathy, or aid,
From those who would have given
A helping hand in her adversity.
She spurned the counsel of the wise and good,
And every effort of a kindly nature spurned;
She gave to folly what to love was due,
And grieved the hearts that might have loved her true.

There came a day when to her gaze was shown
A yawning gulf of unrepented sin;
And many a path of misery unrolled,
And many a way for careless feet to enter in.
She saw the pit upon whose brink she stood,
Whose murky sides were clothed
With terror and despair,
And at its bottom, death, with many
An added terror, crouched, waiting
With many a subtle smile the feet
Of those by wickedness and folly led.
She shuddering gazed, and
Turned her head away,
And to her God for strength and
Mercy prayed: that he would grant
Forgiveness for her mad and
Wayward words, and give her
Strength to turn her steps
In brighter, fairer paths.
And as she struggled on and strove
To gain the firmer paths from
Which she strayed, unaided

[Column 2]
And alone, save for her Heavenly
Father's care whose tender love
Could see the better impulse
Of her heart, and who alone
Could give her strength to stand
Amid the torturing scoffs of those
Whose hands would fain have hurled
Her farther still into the dread abyss
From whence her steps had turned.
And thus she gained at last
Her Heavenly Father's care,
And lived to know the joy
That virtue's paths can only give.

Provo, Dec. 9, 1879.


[Column 1]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE FABLES of Lillie Devereux Blake,
from the "Evening Telegram," are issued
in a pamphlet and for sale. Price ten cents,
single copy; six dollars per hundred. Oli-
ver J. Blaber, printer, 112 and 114 William
street, New York.
	THE BRITISH Empire is under the gov-
ernment of a Queen-Empress, the Chinese
Empire under Empresses-Regent, Corea
and Madagascar are governed by Queens,
and a woman is the heiress of the Empire
of Brazil. Yet when the women of the
people ask for a share in government by
the people, they are told it is contrary to
the experience of ages and the laws of na-
ture for a woman to exercise political power.
—Woman Suffrage Journal.
	ORDINATION OF women is being consid-
ered by the Methodist clergy of Chicago.
The agitation of this matter is another step
forward in the cause of woman's advance-
ment. It will call forth the best thoughts
of men and women on the subject, which
cannot fail to elicit some new ideas that
will benefit the public mind on the woman
question. Miss Frances Willard, it is con-
ceded, is the best temperance lecturer on
the platform. There are several women
who have had pastoral charge of congrega-
tions, and have given good satisfaction.
	THE OCTOBER number of "The North
American Review" contains an article by
Dr. Frances Parkman, "The Woman Ques-
tion, intended for a CLINCHER. The No-
vember number contains the other side of
this question by advocates of woman suf-
frage well known to the public—Mrs. Julia
Ward Howe, Thomas Wentworth Higgin-
son, Lucy Stone, Elizabeth Cady Stanton
and Wendell Phillips. Read both sides (it
is always the best way), and then draw your
own conclusions. In our humble opinion, a
good way to become converted to woman
suffrage would be to hear the other side
and see how shallow their arguments
against woman's voting are.
	AN INTERNATIONAL Conference has been
held in Liege, Belgium, under the auspices
of the "British Continental and General
Federation for the Abolition of Government
Regulation of Prostitution." Representa-
tives from Great Britain, France, Switzer-
land, Italy, Holland, Belgium, Germany,
Sweden and Denmark attended and took
part in the deliberations; among them were
many whose names are familiar, by hear-
ing them associated constantly in the work
of reform, political and social. The work
in progress is called the "New Abolitionist's

[Column 2]

Movement," to put down regulated vice,
which is a system of slavery for women.
The reports from these several countries
were very favorable, especially from Italy.
The Conference will be held next year in
Italy, and will, it is thought, "oblige the
Italian Government to abolish the social
vice" regulations.
	MISS KATE FIELD says in "Scribner" that
Mr. Arthur Seymour Sullivan was born
both clever and lucky; and she adds that it
is probably because of his genial and ex-
travagant grandfather's existence that
"Pinafore" was written. For this gentle-
man, an Irish squire, spent his patrimony
in riotous living, and his son Thomas found
that he must work or starve. He was very
fond of music and so adopted as a profes-
sion the art he loved. He became band-
master of the Royal Military College at
Sandhurst, and it was in the band-room
that his son Arthur passed most of his
childhood. At ten years old he played
upon every wind instrument as well as up-
on the piano, which was taught him by his
music-loving mother. His talent for mis-
chief he displayed one day when he was
lost for five hours and was found in an old
college room, picking to pieces a venerable
piano, in order to know the secret of its con-
struction. At fourteen years old he won,
by an original composition, over twenty-
three other competitors, the Mendelssohn
Scholarship of the Royal Academy of Mu-
sic, and was thus enabled to study his art in
Germany.—Ex.
	THE STATE Medical Society of Massachu-
setts has, after about ten years of discus-
sion, admitted women to membership. A
meeting of the Council has been held re-
cently in Boston, and the Board of Censors
instructed to examine all female applicants.
This will stimulate other medical boards to
move in that direction, and is another vic-
tory for women. Dr. James R. Chadwick,
in the October number of the International
Review, states that the early history of the
world contains testimony of the ability and
skill of women in the practice of medicine.
Mythology gives women credit for knowl-
edge on this subject. Dr. Chadwick gives
the following summary of his investiga-
tions:
	"(1). That there is a widespread and ever-
growing movement in all parts of the world
in favor of allowing women to study and
practice medicine.
	(2). That their claims for admission to
the existing medical schools for men have
in many instances been acceded to, even in
countries like Germany, where there is no
considerable number of applicants for the
privilege.
	(3). That nowhere, except in Zurich dur-
ing the two years of Russian invasion,
have the predicted social, moral, or educa-
tional calamities befallen the colleges or
communities. The testimony as to these
points is full, authoritative, and unequivo-
cal.
	(4). That the extent and force of the de-
mand for the medical education of women
in the several countries is in direct ratio to
the general enlightenment of the people,
finding its loudest expression in England,
and notably in America."


82		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
GOOD MANNERS.

BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	We have not finished our talk about cards
and calls, but shall add something more on
that one point, giving Mrs. Ward as au-
thority. Our young people should make
themselves familiar with correct obser-
vances, and there is very little danger of
any of them being over nice or particular,
and after all it is better to be too particular
than not sufficiently so. This is termed by
many the age of bad manners; then it is
the duty of those persons who write, or
talk in public, to use their influence to have
it otherwise, to impress upon the young the
"necessity of good manners, and seek to
inspire in all a desire to improve in this re-
spect.
	"A mooted point	*	*	is in reference
to the writing of 'P. P. C.' and 'R. S. V. P.'
Many affirm that it is incorrect to use capi-
tals, asking how the sentence would look if
it were written out in full: 'Pour Prendre
Conge!' 'Repliquiz S'il Vous Plait!' Since
the time of the Romans capital letters
have been used in writing or printing all
abbreviated sentences; as for instance, P.
M. for past meridian, and A. M. for ante
meridian Writing R. s. v. p. and P. p. c.
seems to be an American innovation, and
rather a finical one, with the Roman custom
in mind. A lawyer of widespread reputa-
tion was once cited as authority for writing
p. p. c., but the one who advocated the use
of capitals asserted that she had more con-
fidence in his legal ability than as an au-
thority in social observances; especially in
administering a reproof to a lady who had
'P. P. C. on her card (which he tore up with
the remark that he had expected better
things of her), he had shown more of the
judge than the gentleman. Among inti-
mate friends informal calls made out of the
conventional hours, are the most agreeable.
Hours on which morning calls are made
vary in different cities. Where lunch is
served at one o'clock and dinner at six or
seven, the calling hours are from two or
five. Where early dinners are the custom,
from one to four are the usual hours, and in
some towns from twelve to three; but a
formal call should not be made before noon
in any place. It is easy to ascertain the
customs of a city before calling.
	Two persons out of one family, or at the
most three persons, can make calls together.
Ladies in making calls in cities dress with
much more elegance than for walking or for
shopping. When there is any degree of
intimacy, or a long acquaintance, the early
morning call in morning dress is preferable.
	"Some ladies in cities are 'at home' to
their most intimate friends at all hours,
who are never at home to mere acquaint-
ances in calling hours, for the reason that
they know in making formal calls ladies do
not expect or wish to be admitted. This
fact has caused many to look more leniently
than they formerly did upon the French
mode of leaving cards, without inquiring if
the ladies are at home, when the call is one
of pure ceremony. For fear of giving of-
fence, it is better for the young, and for
those who have the time to spare, to make
the inquiry; but elderly persons, and those
whose days are not long enough for them,
on account of the engrossing nature of their
occupation, should always be excused when
they prefer to make their cards serve as
substitutes for themselves after an exchange
of calls.
	"To ladies whose circle of visiting ac-
quaintances is small, such ceremonious vis-

[Column 2]
its cannot but seem to be a mere farce; but
those who number several hundred families
on their list, appreciate all time-saving in-
novations, espe[-]ially if they entertain fre-
quently; and consequently they have to ap-
preciate fully the observances that enable
them to keep up a ceremonious acquaintance
with a circle too large for friendly visit-
ing."
	"A lady receiving does not dress elabor-
ately as for dinner. "The lady of the house
rises when visitors enter, who advance to
pay their respects to her before speaking to
any others. A well-bred person pays equal
attention to all her callers. It is allowable
to pay extra attention to persons of distin-
guished rank, to strangers, to age, or world-
wide reputation. Attention to the aged is
one of the marks of good breeding which
is never neglected by the thoughtful and
refined. Ladies and gentlemen are privi-
leged to speak to each other, who meet in
the drawing-room of a common friend,
without any introduction; though gentle-
men generally prefer to ask for introduc-
tions. When introduced to any one, bow
slightly and enter at once into conversa-
tion. It is a great want of good-breeding
not to do so.
	A little more about calls will suffice. All
cards of invitation require answers, except
those for kettle-drums. A kettle drum sig-
nifies a light entertainment, to which ladies
and gentlemen can come and go in calling
costume, not generally remaining over the
half hour allotted for the extreme length
of a morning call. Of course such an invi-
tation does not absolutely require any an-
swer, nor any cards left afterwards by those
who are present. In an event of exchange
of calls between two ladies, without meet-
ing, who are not known to each other by
sight, they should upon the first opportu-
nity make themselves known to each other.
The younger should seek the elder, or the
one who has been the recipient of the first
attention should introduce herself, or seek
an introduction. Many unpleasant mis-
takes are made by persons on account of
their ignorance of social customs, and these
mistakes prove the necessity of a better
understanding of these things. "Untrained
characters are not willing to submit to
rules. They maintain that good breeding
is a gift and comes by nature, like poetry,
never seeming to fancy that dukes, or earls,
or "exclusive old families," have anything
to contend with in the way of keeping out
of sight those proclivities which Darwin
maintains are inherited by all human be-
ings from their four-footed ancestors, and
which, when indulged in, make men clowns,
and boors, and snobs, no matter what their
rank in life. A man's happiness depends
on his manners and conduct."
	A great deal is said about the decay of
fine manners; in fact, it is a matter of uni-
versal comment. The journals of both
America and England teem with the sub-
ject. But what shall be the remedy? What
suggestions can be made should be, and
whatever influence the pen, the press, or
the platform, may have, should be used in
this direction, combined with other noble
work, that all may harmonize, or that a
certain propriety or justness of proportion
of things may be maintained. The lack of
a just relation between the manners of peo-
ple towards each other makes discord, or
causes impropriety. There are many nice
distinctions that can scarcely be expressed,
and yet they may be understood by those
who possess fine manners perfectly, yet
others, perchance, may think them uncalled
for; they are not perhaps essential to life,
but they are to the true happiness of an ele-

[Column 3]
vated mind. Culture in an expressed broad
sense is perhaps the only cure. Largely
this reform, if it ever comes, is and must
be the work of women, and especially the
work of mothers. Young or middle-aged
persons of fine manners never comport
themselves to elderly people as they do to
those of their own age, neither does a gen-
tleman address himself to one of the oppo-
site sex as he would to one of his own.
There is a subtle instinct in these matters
that should be recognized and ingratiated
into the life and character which tends to
elevate, and would in a short time lift so-
ciety much above its present level. It is
the ignoring of these fine points that has
brought things to their present condition.
And the results are that many of the young
people of to-day show no more respect for
the aged than they do for those of their
own age. In this connection much might
be said, but for this time we will only add
that some of the young people have become
so indifferent in their manner towards their
friends and those whom they should re-
spect, even though they may be under ob-
ligations to them, that often in return for a
bow, or a cheery "good morning" they
only recognize one with a slight move-
ment of the chin and elevating the eye-
lids. This needs no other comment, it
shows for itself the want of that fine feel-
ing which lifts one towards fine manners


THE WOMAN'S CONGRESS.

	Only small reports have reached us of the
doings of the Women's Congress at Madi-
son, Wisconsin. The President, Mrs. Kate
Newell Doggett, gave a sharp criticism of
the laws which afflict wives. Dr. Mary
Putnam Jacobi discussed the "Physical ba-
sis of Mind." Sarah Conant Ostrom read
a plea for the healthful training of children.
Abby W. May spoke for woman on School
Boards, with their experience in Massachu-
setts. Mrs. Ann Mitchell Macy urged the
need of plenty of good books for children.
Mrs. Rebecca N. Hazard's paper recom-
mended all girls to master some industry
by which they could earn a living. Mrs.
Kate Gannet Wells told of the industries
already utilized by women. Mrs. Martha
N. McKay and Dr. Julia Holmes Smith
spoke to encourage women, especially
Southern women to be willing to work for
pay.
	Thus it appears that useful practical top-
ics were chosen by this body of women.
We shall have further report hereafter.
	—Woman's Journal.	L. S.


PREMATURE WOMEN.—When girls mid-
way in their teens throw off their natural
habits and attire, don long skirts, shoot up
the hair, and affect the airs and dress of
young women, they would often be sur-
prised to know what their elders really
think of the improvements. One such
miss went to the depot recently to meet an
aged friend of the family, and was surprised
to find herself not recognized on greeting
the visitor as she stepped from the car.
"Don't you know me, auntie?" "Why,
this isn't Maria, is it?" "Certainly; don't
you think I look better than I did last sum-
mer when you were here?" "No," replied
the honest soul, looking the girl over; "to
tell the truth, I don't. Go home and let
down your hair, and be young while you
can, for it will not be many years before
you will be glad enough to have people
take you for a girl!"—Springfield Republi-
can.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		83﻿


[Column 1]
CHARACTER THIRD.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	A calm, almost cold, some would say a
forbidding exterior;—can that icy reserve,
that repelling manner, be caused by a sul-
len disposition? Hush! certainly not; that
nature is decidedly not sullen; take care
how you judge too hastily. Then why
those chilling manners? Let's see: Man-
ners reserved, distant, chilling and pride-
ful—may we not add pride to the catalogue?
Perhaps we may, no doubt that is mixed
up in the character. But look! one ap-
proaches and addresses this repellent being
—one who knows and is known. A grand
touchstone this! Where is now the reserve,
the pride, the chilliness? All gone, dis-
pelled by the magical influence of a friend.
Happiness, mirth, cheerfulness, yea, "fun,"
beam on that countenance, and the eyes,
those "windows of the soul,' have a laugh-
ing, playfulness, though they lose not their
shy, apprehensive expression, now darting
full upon the speaker, and anon glancing
off like shooting stars. And listen to the
laugh—hear you not the heart's laugh in
that contagious and agreeable convulsion?
Where is the cloud that sat on that inno-
cent face? Gone, and the soul is looking
out at every crevice, and need not be
ashamed of being seen; for it evidently
bears the impress of purity, and emits rays
of honor and honesty, warmth and modes-
ty, sincerity of heart, and an excellent
judgment, not easily hoodwinked, and
tact, and tend[-]rness, are all set forth in
that rather enigmatical character; and we
trace a nature pensive and peaceful, happy
and contented; but circumstances and com-
munion have engrafted an irritable, because
over-excited, temperament, the conse-
quence of a soul that awoke from its dream
of infancy too soon, and rendered it queru-
lous. A magician touched its heart, and
the soul looked down into its own depths,
and startled the youthful gazer and shook
the surroundings with a force at times un-
controlable, because self-control and self-
discipline had not yet been fully established.
But give time for the heart's fountain to
calm down, and its spray to dissolve, and
all will again be calm as the infancy of this
youthful character. Destroy not too soon
the dream of youth! No earth-born pas-
sions were mixed up there, 'twas soul com-
muning with soul, lovely and altogether
ideal; 'twas an episode in that young life,
the bright sunshine of which age itself
will love to bask in, and which the
mists of death need not shut out.
	Beloved character, what else shall we tell
of thee? That thou art obedient, humble,
peaceful, quiet and uncomplaining? -Yes.
Let a few more suns ripen thy 'budding
charms, and I feel sure thou wilt come
forth sterling, the mannerism so complained
of will then be only a settled seriousness,
which will be ready at any time to be dis-
pelled by mirth and cheerfulness, called
forth by innocent hilarity.
	This is a miniature.

CHARACTER FOURTH.

	A calm and placid exterior, collected,
self-possessed, sedate and concentrated;
manners delicate and retiring, with a mix.
ture of bashfulness and hauteur, half-awk-
ward, half graceful, gentle almost to supine-
ness, unseeking, unbending; and around
hung a mystery, a melancholy, a resigna-
tion, a gentleness, bespeaking gentle blood;
language half humble, half sarcastic, al-
ways good; nothing dogmatical, yet firm in

[Column 2]
maintaining opinions; withal was shadowed
forth an affectionate nature, that would
identify itself with the joys and sorrows of
friends, and a constancy, without which all
kind offices are but casual and inefficient.
Firmness and prudence also give weight to
this character. An intelligent, soul-breath-
ing countenance, a deeply-impressing, quiet
eye, from whence a lofty, spirit-thrilling
soul looked out, and that spoke volumes at
a glance, or, rather, they never glanced,
their look was a signet that stamped on the
beholder an impression not easily forgotten;
a mouth denoting firmness, purity, austerity
and cynicism; and the laugh! Is there not
character developed in the laugh of some
people? Then this bespoke a soul born
with mirth and cheerfulness, but crippled,
crushed, by—ah! there's the mystery!
perhaps sorrow and disappointment, per-
haps adversity, perhaps a change of circum-
stances, or a combination of all these, and
so produced a smothered, inward, hysteri-
cal laugh, that awoke sorrowful sympathy
instead of mirth and joy. The voice!
There's magic in some voices; ahd this be-
spoke superior association, and struck on
the ear as "music o'er the waters roll."
Temperament self-sacrificing, enduring and
romantic; temper warm and combustible,
but like every other feature of this rare
character under good control; an air and
carriage that might have befitted a six-
foot nobleman, reminding one forcibly of
Byron's eulogy on his friend Moore.
	It is at intervals "few and far between"
that we meet with a character altogether
resembling the one I have attempted to
develop. 'Twas certainly a specimen of a
select class, one whom we must esteem, and
who called forth our warmest sympathies;
in fine, one of those "who defy you to for-
get them," but who arise on the horizon of
the heart as "The morning star of memo-
ry."

CHARACTER FIFTH.

	I pause over this character, because it is
one most difficult to solve, even by those
associating in close proximity—but often I
find we are least known by those nearest to
us—yet 'twas a character of a high order,
the structure of the form and limbs denot-
ing a type of an ancient order—and cer-
tainly perfect in that type; not above the
middle height, but very strong and muscu-
lar, the head denoting in its organs an equal
temperament, very small, the face large in
proportion to the head; ears small and
beautiful, forehead high and intellectual,
the eyebrows exquisitely arched, hazel
eyes, nose and mouth rather large, chin
denoting character, chest deep and full,
singularly so, the "tout ensemble" exhibit-
ing an athlete; complexion showing the
purest health; manners reserved, strangers
might say cold and apathetic, suspect there
was nothing in the soul to produce a more
glowing exterior! strangers are often poor
judges. One of the most ancient and costly
jewels in the English crown is unpolished!
Manners reserved, yes, but not repulsive,
gentle and mild in exterior, though there
is quite sufficient firmness in the character;
slow in making professions, seldom attract-
ed, hospitable, very—when really called
upon to do the honors, can do them with a
winning grace; cheerful, but not mirthful,
fond of retirement, almost solitude, no love
of society, when in it dull, silent and ab-
stracted, no love of books, or intellectual
pursuits, yet certainly of an intellectual
temperament, the animal seldom appearing,
never predominating; morals of the very
highest and refined tone, without a grain of
cant or cynicism; not religious as that word

[Column 3]
is generally understood, but certainly pos-
sessing the requisites for a Christian; one
to whom we felt we might say, "Thou art
not far from the kingdom of heaven;" there
seems to want but the Master Seal! Seldom
excited, no lightness, no "amiable weak-
nesses," but all is regularly firm and un-
bending, with a slight inclination to des-
potism; naturally polite, to which educa-
tion and association have given their quota
—one to whom it would be difficult to make
"a parasite to time, place, or opinion; tem-
per equal, temperament plegmatigue, dis-
position good, character concentrated, con-
sistent, cold and calculating.
	The sitting is over.


﻿THE COCKS AND THE HENS.

A FABLE.

	All the fowls having once asembled to-
gether certain solemn Old Cocks took occa-
sion to preach to the Hens and they
said:—"A plain and simple dress and modest
demeanor please us far more than bright
colors and flaunting array. We do not
admire fine feathers, but meekness and
obedience." The Hens listened in dutiful
silence and some of them who were clad in
gray and brown fancied that this was quite
true, and that they should please most.
But behold! when they all went to a ball
that night it was the dashing Shanghais
and gay little Bantams that attracted most
attention, the poor brown Hens were quite
neglected, while all the young Roosters,
and even the solemn Old Cocks did nothing
but admire those Hens who wore the
brightest feather. Moral.—Men's Preach
ing and their Practice differ widely.
	LILLIE DEVEREUX BLAKE.


THE NOVEMBER number of the "Contri-
butor" just out contains much interesting
matter and is indeed quite an addition to
home literature. First the second article of
the series on "Confidence" by ELDER
MOSES THATCHER, will strike thinking
people as eminently suggestive.
	Next is an instructive and very interest-
ing article "Wind Rain and Snow;" by
QUEBEC. The second of Character Sketch-
es. "The Spartan Child" by K. G. M. An
entertaining biographical sketch of Domin-
ico Ballo," in which the memory of a great
musician almost forgotten is revived; by
H. G. WHITNEY; it will be read by all with
interest. Editorial, "Helps to the Priest-
hood" "Resuming Meetings," both of spe-
cial local interest; original poem, "Shadows
and Whisperings," Strange Scientific Sug-
gestions," containing numerous illustra-
tions of the absurdities put forth by some
philosophers as science.
	"Mormons Educationally," by R. W.
Young, in which the charge of the predomi-
nant ignorance of the Mormon people is re-
futed. The second number of the discrip-
tive series, "Bits of Travel" by DE VALLI-
BUS, which describes scenes and incidents in
Antwerp and Cologne. "Ancient Grecian
Oracles," historic sketch by H. Cummings.
Then follows "Association Intelligence,"
"Review of Books," and other bright say-
ings, choice paragraphs and selections, and a
Poem entitled "The Ripple's Request," se-
lected. We think the young people will
find this number quite as attractive as the
last.


MISS SARAH E. SAXE, eldest daughter of 
John G. Saxe, the poet, died at the resi-
dence of her father, in Brooklyn, Long
Island, on Sunday, the 12th of October last.


84		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, NOV. 1 1879.


[Column 1]
	STORING GRAIN.
As the time draws near to hold the annual
meeting of the Woman's Central Grain Com-
mittee, wo feel called npon to make some sug-
gestions upon the subject, as it is a matter of 
some importance to the women of this people.
It is well known that President Young in his 
lifetime counseled the sisters to store up grain
for future emergencies, and also that he ad-
vised them to solicit their husbands for dona-
tions of grain and means to build storehouses.
	In view of the fulfillment of prophecies an-
cient and modern, in which this people pro-
fess to have implicit faith, it is consistent that
wise and needful steps be taken in this direc-
tion, and that much earnestness be manifested
in the matter, by those who are engaged in this
labor, that others may be inspired with the
necessity of storing up grain, for it cannot be
by the labor of a few that this Mammoth work
is to be accomplished, namely, the storing of 
sufficient grain to feed the hungry thousands
who will flock to Zion when famine and sick-
ness cover the face of the whole land.
	This work seems an arduous one for the s[-]s-
ters; and many brethren have remarked that
it was too hard, but no complaints have ever
reached us of any discouragement on account
of its laboriousness, but on the contrary, even
the sisters who have gone into the fields and
gleaned have felt much satisfaction in their 
work, a[-]d have realized the blessing of God
upon their efforts.
	Since the annual meeting in the interest of 
storing grain, held last November, several ex-
cellent storehouses have been built in different
parts of the Territory, some in this city. These
things should be reported, in order that all
facts concerning the work may be known to
those interested, and that others who have not
yet built may have the benefit of the experi-
ence gained in practical work of this kind.
Circumstances have much to do with this work
of building, as well as gathering the grain; in 
some places the sisters' organizations have ac-
cumulated a considerable amount of means,
and have not many poor to support, or to aid
in supporting, consequently they are able to
give more towards storing grain, or helping to
build granaries. All who have read the article
published in WOMAN'S EXPONENT, No. 10,
Vol. 5, October 15, 1876, written by Pres.
Young's wish and reviewed and approved by
him previous to its being published, cannot, it
seems to us, have even a shadow of doubt as to
the necessity of taking hold of this enterprise
energetically. I know many questions are
a[-]ked and remarks made in regard to the expe-
diency of this undertaking, and that if left in 
the hands of women not acquainted with the
nature of grain[-]it is likely to be made a failure

[Column 2]
instead of a success. The sisters generally are
aware that it is a question on which wise coun-
sel is needed, and they refer to Bishops, farm-
e[-]s and business men to ascertain all facts con-
nected with this peculi[-]r, benevolent enter-
prise.
	We have not only Pres. Young's words on 
this subject to refer to, but we have remarks
by Pres. Taylor at the Grain Meeting held in 
Salt Lake City:
	"I consider this gathering and storing of
wheat as of great importance. I am pleased to
find that you have succeeded as well as you
have, yet you have not a great deal, consider-
ing the size of the Territory, but you will in-
crease it. It puts me in mind of the history of 
Joseph; it took seven years in that day to pre-
pare for the seven years that were to come; we
have not got any defined time. * * *
	"If you ladies can help us and succeed in
saving wheat for a case of emergency, it will
be one of the greatest acts of statesmanship
that could occur. We have been careless, we
did not save our wheat as we should have done,
and now if the sisters take heed to these things
the men will find out that their wives have
been wise in doing this thing according  to
counse[-].  The ladies are generally considered
the weaker and more beautiful sex; but if we
all do our part we will be in a position to re-
ceive the blessings of the Lord. I am pleased
to see that our young sisters are taking an ac-
tive part in this work." * * *
	And here are some remarks by Bishop Hunt-
er on the subject at the same time:
	"It is very i[-]portant and highly commend-
able to gather and store wheat. * * *
It has been said that bread is the staff of life.
When we first came to these velleys, and in-
deed since then, we have suffered for the want
of it. We don't want to go through so severe a
trial again, at all times we should have wheat
on hand. The Lord has been mercifnl to us;
He has blessed us with much grain, and much
of it has been wasted. But in the future I
hope we will be more careful of what the Lord
has so abundantly blessed us with. Our Relief
Societies are doing much good; they have
saved much suffering, and have been a great
he[-]p to the B[-]shops.  They have the priesthood
—a portion of priesthood rests upon the sisters.
They are doing a good work, and particularly
the storing of grain is commendable. May
you continue and succeed in your work."
	Our readers will see by these extracts, re-
published from the EXPONENT of Dec. 1877,
that the sisters not only have the advice of
Pres. Young in this connection, but the sanc-
tion of living oracles in this peculiar mission.
It is strange that any Latter-day Saint
should believe the rumors in regard to the 
wheat stored by women having been exported.
It would seem too absurd to talk about, only
when sensible men and women give credence
to such vague reports, it becomes a duty, in
some instances, to contradict them. Is it not
ridiculous to suppose that women who have
plenty to do in their own homes, and have no
occasion whatever (except the desire to do
good) to labor outside, should appropriate the
proceeds of a few bushels of grain, which they
themselves had perhaps gone into the fields and 
helped to gleam?
	"It must be so" is the cry, as some one as-
serted to us to day in reference to a matter that
we knew all about, and they only heard from
"Dame Rumor;" as a humorous poet once
wrote:
		"It must be so, for Thomas Brown Esquire,
		Heard Blab's wife tell the son of Mr. Smith
		Him that was christen'd John after his sire—
		Men often to transmit their names desire—

[Column 3]
		That Higgons sa[-]d, while he was walking with
		That charming lady aged forty,
		'Yclept Miss Catchum, (Higgons was her beau)
		She told him (confidentially) that naughty
		And prattling gossip, Mrs. Wilkins, thought she
		Heard Polly's cousin's sister's aunt say so."
	This is no doubt similar to the origin of the
story of the wheat being mysteriously disposed
of.
	The various Relief Societies and Young La-
dies' Associations will please be prompt in send-
ing in reports of the wheat they have stored.
If granaries have been built in their locality,
or are in the course of erection, let us have
particulars, that all may bo recorded concerning
 this remarkable and interesting enterprise.
The meeting will be held in the Council House
on Saturday, Nov. 15, at two o'clock P. M.
We hope to receive reports from all parts of the
Territory, and that all officers and members of 
Relief Societies adjacent to this city will at-
tend who can make it convenient to do so.
Brethren, especially Bishops, are cordially in-
vited to be present. 
			E.B.Wells


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE SINCERELY hope that those who have
sent in reports of conferences and meetings of
sisters' organizations will have patience, and
we will try to be just, if we are not generous,
and remember all in their time.
	A NUMBER of Sisters from this city are in-
vited by Sister Margaret T. Smoot, Pres. of
Relief Societies of Utah Co., to attend the
Quarterly Conference of Relief Societies of
that Stake of Zion, to be held in Provo on the
7th and 8th of this month.
	WE LEARN by letter from Sister E. Howard
that in company with Sister S. S. Richards,
President of Relief Societies of Summit Co.,
she has visited and held meetings at Wanship,
Echo City, Evanston and Almy, all well at-
tended. Sister Howard and some other sis'ers
were expected at the Quarterly Conference of
Relief Societies of Summit Co. in Coalville
yesterday.
	WE HAVE received a copy of "The Ameri-
can Kindergarten, Magazine," edited by Emi-
ly M. Coe, Room 70, Bible House, New York.
It is filled with pleasant, useful and instructive
articles in prose and poetry, questions and an-
swers, and is illustrated with suitable engrav-
ings. This method of teaching is becoming
very popular, and is extremely simple and
easily adapted to the minds of the young. The
little magazine is one dollar a year, and is well
worth the price in its lessons for children.
	THE FABLES of Lillie Devereux Blake, com-
piled in pamphlet form, from the "Evening
Telegram," have been sent to us with the 
"compliments of the author." There are thirty
little fables, and every one contains a pith
that is telling, each one applicable to a certain
circumstance, or fact. Mrs. Blake uses sharp
arrows carefully pointed; her style is exceed-
ingly unique, and characteristic of herself.
Our readers will remember we published two
of her fables during this year, and in the pres-
ent number will be found one of these litt'e
fables that is strikingly applicable, and no
doubt all who read it will appreciate its truth.
"The Fables" are 10 cen's, single copy or $6
per hundred.


LETTER ON PLURAL MARRIAGE.

	Recently, to my great astonishment, I read
an article headed "Last Testimony of Sister
Emma," published in the Saint's Advocate,
a pamphlet issued in Plano, Ill.


In the article referred to, her son Joseph
reportes himself as interviewing his mother on
the subject of polygamy, asking questions con-
cerning his father.  Did his father teach the
principle? Did he practice or approve of it?
Did his father have other wives than herself?
To all these and similar inquiries, Sister Emma
is represented as answering in the negative,
positively affirming that Joseph the Prophet
had no other wife or wives than her; that he
neither taught the principle of plurality of
wives, publicly or privately.
	I once dearly loved "Sister Emma," and
now, for me to believe that she, a once honored
woman, should have sunk so low, even in her
own estimation, as to deny what she knew to
be true, seems a palpable absurdity.  If what
purports to be her "last testimony" was really
her testimony she died with a libel on her
lips - a libel against her husband - against his
wives - against the truth, and a libel against
God; and in publishing that libel, her son has
fastened a stigma on the character of his moth-
er, that can never be erased.  It is a fact that
Sister Emma, of her own free will and choice,
gave her husband four wives, two of whom are
now living, and ready to testify that she not only
gave them to her husband, but that she taught
them the doctrine of plural marriage and urged
them to accept it.  And, if her son wished to
degrade his mother in the  estimation of her 
former. associate[-], those familiar with the in-
cidents of the period referred to, he could not
do it more effectually than by proving her
denial of any knowledge of polygamy, (celestial
marrige) and its practice by her husband
Even if her son ignored his mother's reputation
for veracity, he better have waited until his
father's wives were silent in death, for now
they are here living witnesses of the divinity
of plural marriage, as revealed by the Almighty,
through Joseph Smith, who was commanded
to introduce it by taking other wives.
	So far as Sister Emma personally is con-
cerned, I would gladly have been silent and
let her memory rest in peace, had not her
misguided son, through a sinister policy,
branded her name with gross wickedness--
charging her with the denial of a sacred prin-
ciple which she had heretofore not only ac-
knowledged but had acted upon - a principle
than which there is none more important
comprised in the Gospel of the son of God.
	It may be asked,  Why defend plurality of
wives, since the United States government
forbids its practice? The action of the execu-
tors of this government can neither change or
annihilate a fundamental truth; and this na-
tion, in preventing the practice of plural mar-
riage, shoulders a heavier responsibility than
any nation has ever assumed, with one excep-
tion - that of the ancient Jews.  If the govern-
ment can afford it, we can.  The controversy
is with God - not us.
							ELIZA R. SNOW,

	A wife of Joseph Smith the Prophet. - Des-
eret News.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		85


[Column 1]
MY LAST WEEK AT LAIE.

	Friday Aug. 22d, Sea bathing in the morn-
ing. At three o'clock p.m. attended the meet-
ing of the Relief Society for the last time.
	The sisters were very kind. We received a
few more gifts some banannas and green sweet
corn as good as I ever tasted.
	Sat. 23d. At seven o'clock before breakfast
met with the young ladies in the meeting
house; the good spirit was truly with us.
	Sunday 24: Sabbath School at nine o'clock
meeting at eleven; many native Elders were
present who were well versed in the Scriptures

[Column 2]
and good orators J. K. Hawaii Napela's bro-
ther is one of the most eloquent speakers.
	There were a great many testimonies given
by the Elders, some of them very young men.
How enjoyable at all times is the bread of life.
	Truth is "sweeter than honey in the honey-
comb" wherever it is found.
	Pres. Cluff seeks to benefit all, he needs the
faith and prayers of the Saints.
	At five o'clock p.m. I took a walk around
on the sea shore which was very delightful
called up many pleasant thoughts.
	Every Sabbath evening the bell rings for
prayers and the five families of the mission
assemble at Pres. Cluff's for united worship
singing and prayer, music from the organ,
Jacob Gales organist. The organ was pur-
chased at Honolulu while we were there. The
first evening after it was brought over, I
wished Bro. C. R. Savage had been there to
make a picture of the scene. I counted forty
persons men, women and children sitting on
the floor (the native custom) and many ani-
mated faces at the doors and windows some
of them keeping time with their heads and
feet, yet they were very quiet. They are
great lovers of music and many of them have
excellent voices. The first tune played upon
the organ was,
		"O, my father thou that dwellest;
		In the high and holy place,"
A hymn composed by our dear Sister
Eliza R. Snow: when the inspiration of this
hymn came upon her little did she think
where and by whom it would be chanted.
	Monday 25: Mamma Kleohanoe's wife
(whose weight is over two hundred pounds)
came as usual and took our washing. She
washes sitting by the edge of a spring of water.
A flat rock answers the purpose of both tub
and board; all the water is soft and not very
cold: the only dish used is a tin one to blue
them in. She sits down to iron, the iron is
like a tailer's goose, a little charcoal in a dish
is sitting by, it can easily be replenished. Our
clothes always looked beautiful.
	Tuesday, 26: We took our last horse-back
ride through a canon or gulch to gather ferns
and curiosities I must not try to describe the
beauty of the lovely, eternal, luxuriant green
foliage, it would be imposible. Underneath
the trees in the orange groves the leaves be-
come skeletonized beautifully by laying on
the ground. After leaving our horses, because
there is not r[-]om for a horse to pass with safe-
ty, we traveled up, some distance and there
we foun d a brother tending fruit trees and
kala, there were also bushes of cayenne pep-
per, something in appearance like our rose
bushes. We then came to the fields of awa.
This is a beautiful shrub; it requires about
two years to perfect it. The druggists at Hon-
olulu pay a good price for it. It is the root
that is valuable; the natives pulverize it, soak
it in water, then strain and drink it. The
effect of a little is like smoking opium, more of
it taken will intoxicate like liquor. It is
pleasant to taste, but is often taken to excess.
On the top of the heights was a small house.
Sometimes those afflicted with leprosy go to
the heights to escape the officers who are sent
to take all afflicted with that disease to the
island of lepers. We returned home in the
evening enriched in ideas and satisfied though
fatigued but truly grateful for our safe return,
for we had traveled over paths on the moun-
tain sides in places not more than fifteen
inches wide, and below were vast precipices
and chasms that would make one's head swim
to look down.
	Wensday. 27: The feast day drawing near,
work was almost entirely suspended. In the
forenoon the fort was nearly vacated for a

[Column 3]
general refreshing of all in the salt water;
my bathing suit was one that our much es-
teemed sister Mildred Randall left there. It
was of home made Utah flannel.
	Thursday. 28: Pres. Cluff and I rode
through the cane-field. On account of the
drought thirty acres nearly ripened will scarce-
ly yield sufficient to pay for cultivating.
Twenty acres more looks pretty well, but will
not be matured until next March. The cane-
fields are on the east side of the island; at the
base of the mountain is the sugar mill.
	A little bench back of that is a corrall for
the stock; a goodly number had been driven
in to select a beef from to kill for the feast.
The man who has charge of the stock is called,
PANEOLA, he called upon Pres. Cluff to select
one from the many to kill; I sat upon my
horse and waited; when the selection had
been made, and the beautiful fat creature
pointed out, the young man threw the lasso
around it, and the remainder were given liber-
ty; there are about four hundred head of stock
on this island. When the animal was slaugh-
tered some dressed the beef, others dug the hole
to cook it. The meat is cooked in the ground
a hole is dug and wood placed in it on which
are laid rocks; when these are hot the meat or
food is placed on them in bay leaves a leaf as
smooth as glass always green, mats of leaves
are laid over and just a hole left in the top,
where water is poured in and then the top is
closed; the steam cooks it sweet and nice, veg-
tables as well as meat are prepared in this
simple manner, they are good and nutritious:
our girls might envy the natives the beautiful
hair and teeth this style of living produces.
	The boys and girls brought ferns and decor-
ated the meeting house for the feast; festoon-
ing the ferns in many pretty designs with good
taste; mats were brought to cover the floor.
The choir practised for the occasion. The
sisters of the Relief Society paid for the beef
mostly in work; by stripping the lower leaves
from the sugar cane so when it rained the
water would go down the stock direct to the
roots. The shades of evening drew around us in
peace but the ever memorable day the 29th,
of Aug. which is so sacred to me and to the na-
tive Saints I shall never forget; and I know
all was done in honor of the principles of life
and salvation, President Young sought to
establish. The 29, was the feast; of which I
will tell you in my next article.
	The sisters of the Relief Society sent their
love to Sister Eliza R. Snow and the dear
sisters in Zion who are working to help build
up Zion upon the earth.
						ZINA D. YOUNG.


WRITTEN EXPRESSLY FOR THE EX-
PONENT.

	I have just read (not for the first time) a
poem put into my hands,entitled "SHINEHAH"
The subject is a glorious one! and I rejoice
that we have a young man among us (and a 
Poet of no mean order) who can enunciate
such noble sentiments, and delineate Truth in
such beautiful and appropriate language. It
is a decided fact in my mind, that henceforth
we have a Poet of Our Own.
	I would like to elaborate my veiws of the
worth of this Home Production "which, make
it dear and valuable to every Latter-day Saint
but at present will conclude in the words of
Lord Chestefield on returning Mallet's poems to
Lord Bute, who had sent them to him for
criticism:
		"It has no faults, or I no fault can spy:
	It is all beauty, or all blindness I,"
		H. T. K.
Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED at Washington Washington  Co., Sep-
tember the 16 of Tiphoid Pneumonia, Harrison
Pearce, a twin son, of Elijah M. and  Henriet-
ta Steers, born June 17, 1879.
Why is it that we mortals feel
Such grief, when death draw's nigh?
It only brings us closer to
Our God, Who rules on high.
								RETTA.

	DIED at the Nephi House, Nephi, June 1879,
Sarah Jane aged sixteen and Alvin aged seven
the son and daughter of Henry and Susanna
Goldsbrough.
	They have gone to their rest spotless and
pure. They are safely sheltered in the bosom
of Him, who said "Of such is the kingdom of
heaven." They were too good for the rude
blasts of earth.  O, how we all prized them.
The silvery tones of their voices, their sunny
smiles, and their numberless acts of kindness,
live in remembrance, and we weep because
they are gone from us, we feel it is hard to
give them up, so good and gifted, so tender
and true.  But "death has all seasons for its
own," and we have no power to stay its hand.
Death came among us an "unbidden guest and
an unwelcome victor.  But they shall hunger
no more for the Lamb shall feed them and
shall lead them unto the fountains of living
waters and God shall wipe all tears from their
eyes.
It is fitting we should place upon our reccords
some small tribute of our regard. To the s'rick-
en ones to whom the loss seems irreparable
those to whom these beloved ones were nearest
and dearest, we tender our best sympathies
and yet we know we can offer no palliation.
He Who is too wise to err, too good to be un-
kind, knew when it was best to take them to
Himself. Sister Sarah Jane passed away from
earth in peace without a struggle.  In the last
hours of her life she bore a strong testimony,
to the power of Jesus's grace to sustain her and
the precious comfort of the Holy Spirit to her
soul
Who, who would live alway away from his God,
Away from yon heaven that blessed abode
Where the rivers of pleasure flow o'er the high plains
And the noontide of glory eternally reigns,
A. DAVIS.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

WEBER STAKE OF ZION.

	The seventh Quarterly Conferance of the
Relief Society, was held Thursday and
Friday, September 18 and 19, in the
Ogden Tabernacle Pres. Jane S. Richards
was absent in consequence of sickness in
her family. The other officers of the
organization were on the stand; also Pres.
Sarah Herrick and Coun. Emily Richards
of the central board of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
Weber Co., and Pres. E. R. Snow and Mrs
E. Howard of Salt Lake City and several
presidents of branch societies, Coun. L. J.
Herrick, Bishops R. McQuarie and P. G.
Taylor and Elder D. M. Stuart were present.
Conference opened with the usual exer-
cises. On nomination by Pres. E. R. Snow,
Mrs. E. Howard was appointed Secretary
pro tem. Sec. Frodshem being too ill to
preform the duties of her office, Minutes of
last Conference were read by Mrs. Emily
Richards and accepted. Statistical and
financial reports of the branch societies
were read by Mrs. E. Howard. All were
represented as being in a prosperous con
dition,

[Column 2]
	Coun. L. J. Herrick then addessed the
assembly. Thanked God for the many
mercies and blessing vonch safed to us; and
prayed that His spirit and blessings might
rest upon the Conference, and upon those
detained at home with the sick.
	Pres. E. R. Snow made a few remarks:
had been much interested in listening to the
reports; counseled the sisters to be diligent
in attending their meetings, for in so doing
they would receive a blessing which they
could get in no other way.
	Afternoon Session: After singing and
prayer, Pres. E. R. Snow said to the presi-
dents of branches, that they were espected
to report verbally, and she wished to hear
of the moral status of society in their sever-
al places of residence. The statistical and
financial reports which had been read, did
not tell of the spiritual influence exerted
by the sisters, of the increase of good acts
among them, nor of their feelings towards
each other.
	The following presidents then occupied a
short time in speaking. Mrs. H. Lamont
of the first Ward, Ogden City, Mrs. Mary
West, second Ward: Mrs. D. White, third
Ward, Mrs. H. Ballantyne, fourth Ward.
Mrs. Shurtliff, Harrisville; Mrs. Bickington,
Mariett: Mrs. Belknap, Hooperville, Mrs.
Bird, Lynne; Mrs. Fields, Slatersville, Mrs.
Maycock, Hot-Spring district.
	Pres. E. R. Snow addressed the Con-
ference. She said, it is not the talented
alone, but the willing, that are most useful.
Whatever ability we possess is for the
general interest, and in order to improve
society we should improve ourselves. She
considered that the presidents, in reporting
were educating themselves to do more
good; it was not for their aggrandizement,
but to make them more useful. Jesus said
"let him who would be greatest among you,
be the servant of all."
	We work in the light of revelation, and
God requires us to make use of such mat-
erial as we have to get knowledge. She
counseled mothers to read good books and
to seek for wisdom and understanding.
We are too apt to run in the direction of
the world. We are formed of the earth
and are inclined to give the rule to the flesh
instead of the Spirit. We should reflect
upon these subjects and guard against ex-
tremes. She also made some remarks upon
the principle of Plural Marrige, the ful-
fillment of prophecy, and the necessity of
keeping our covenants sacred.
	Mrs. E. Howard: Through the Relief
Society organization we are placed in a
position to improve ourselves. We should
study the laws of nations, especially those
of our own, and educate ourselves, that we
may be able to teach our children the prin-
ciples of truth and righteousness. She gave
some instructions to the secretaries of the
R. S.; referred to the principle of Plural
Marriage, also to some of the teachings of
our Savior.
	Sec. A. M. Frodsham said she felt grate-
ful for the privilege of attending the Con-
ference. She desired spiritual food. The
Gospel of Christ was her all. She thanked
God, she had never doubted the truth of
this work. Prayed that she might be rest-
ored to health and live to do good.
	Bishop McQuarie made a few spirited
remarks. He felt blessed in attending the
R. S. Conference, was pleased with the
labors of the Sisters, and wished to do every
thing in his power to assist and encourage
them. Conference adjourned until Friday
morning, September 19.
	Friday morning session: After the open-
ing exercises the reports of the Y. L. M. I.
A. of Weber Co. and the Primary Associa-

[Column 3]
tion of Ogden City, were read by Mrs. E.
Howard. The presidents made brief re-
marks. Of the Y. L. I. A., Mrs. Nancy
Hill, first Ward, Ogden. Mrs. R. E. Monch,
fourth Ward. Mrs. E. Shurtliff, Plain City,
Mrs. M. Hall, Huntsville, Mrs. S. Belknap,
Hooperville. Mrs. M. E. Slater, Slaterville.
Mrs. A. Madsen, Marriott: Primary Associa-
tion Mrs. E. Rudd, first Ward. Mrs. A.
Odell, third Ward, Mrs. A. M. Frodsham,
fourth Ward.
	Coun., L. J. Herrick said he was much
pleased with the reports. He felt proud of
the young ladies; thought they were doing
all that could be expected of them. The
kingdom of God is a perfect organization;
nothing is wanting; all are organized
from the High Priests down to our children.
This should stir us up to diligence. We
should encourage the young to attend their
meetings. We are glad to have Sister
Snow with us. She has devoted her time
and talents to the promotion of all that is
good and pure. He thought the sisters
deserved praise for the great good they were
doing.
	Elder D. M. Stuart made a few remarks.
He said we were all, young as well as old,
engaged in the work of the Lord, which is
to redeem all His children; and through
our diligence and faithfulness this work
will be accomplished. He gave good coun-
sel and instruction to mothers and children,
spoke in praise of Sister Snow, said she had
done a good work, and millions would yet
arise and call her blessed.
	Afternoon session: A large number of the
Primary Association of Ogden City were in
attendance. By request of Pres. E. R.
Snow the children sang "We thank Thee O,
God." After prayer singing by the child-
ren "O, my Father" Pres. E. R. Snow
asked many questions which were answ-
ered with promptness by the little ones.
Her remarks were full of instruction, and
could not fail to make a good impression
upon the hearts and minds of her attentive
listeners.
	Mrs. E. Howard addressed the children
for a short time, interesting them very
much. They then repeated the Lords
prayer in concert and were dismissed.
	Pres. E. R. Snow exhorted the sisters to
be watchful and energetic, to see that their
children were kept under proper influences
and that no evil take root among them.
Miss Rode Canfield was elected secretary of
the Central Board of the Y. L. M. I. A., of
Weber Co. Bishop C. Critchlow, Elder
Wm., Stowell, and Borther Morley each
made good remarks. Conference was ad-
jorned for three months. Singing and
Benediction.
					A. M. FRODSHAM.

SPRINGVILLE, Oct. 3, 1879.

	Meeting of Relief Society and Primary
Association together with their respective
teachers and officers held in the Church in
Memoir. One year since the Relief Society
was reorganized and primary school estab-
lished. President Ann D. Bringhurst
presided, singing by first Ward, primary
prayer, singing by second Ward, primary,
fourteen girls under 10 years of age sang
"I'll be a little Mormon." After this the
time was pleasantly occupied by relating
poems, composed for the occasion one ad-
dressed to Sister Ann D. Bringhurst one
to the teachers of the Second Ward, Pri-
mary Association followed by catechetical
exercises sweet songs selected and prepared
by their patient teachers, which were sung
with spirit; recital of the Ten Comand


ments, the Lords Prayer, dialogues, and
many instructive speaches. Brother's
Wm. H. Relsey, John Boyer, Richard
Bird, and Pres. Ann D. Bringhurst all
made brief and appropriate remarks; closing
singing "Come again" Sister Hannah Har-
rigson counselor gave good instructions to
the young. Singing Benediction.
		Mrs. Ann D. BRINGHURST, Pres.
	SEMIRA L. WOOD, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

ESSAY UPON GEOFFREY CHAUCER
AND WORKS.

	In writing of a person of whom so very
little is really known, and of whom so
much has been said and written which can-
not be relied upon as literally true, conse-
quently much of which must be conjecture,
one must use his or her own judgment and
powers of discrimination to a very great ex-
tent, as to which of the biographers is the
best authority upon a theme that involves
such a variety of dissimilar and contradic-
tory statements.
	Chaucer, who has no doubt justly been
styled the father of English poetry, was
born, so tradition tells us, in London, in
the year of our Lord 1328; he also died in
the same city in the year 1400, being sev-
enty two years of age. He was buried in
Westminister Abbey.
	Of the early period of his life very little
indeed is known, but it is said by good au-
thority he was the son of a wealthy mer-
chant, who gave him a liberal education;
he was for some considerable time at Cam-
bridge, and afterwards at Oxford. After
completing his studies at those celebrated
places, he traveled about in foreign coun-
tries, and greatly improved himself by ob-
servation in so doing. On his return he
commenced the study of law in the Inner
Temple, but soon quitted Thismis and went
to court as yeoman to Edward III, who
granted him a pension. He was not only a
poet, a scholar, a gentleman of the court,
but a soldier, having served under Edward
in his French campaign; he was taken
prisoner, and it is supposed he was impris-
oned for several years.
	On one occasion he was sent to Genoa to
hire ships for the king's service. He ob-
tained on his return a pitcher of wine daily,
and also the comptrollership of the customs
of wool for London.
	In the succeeding reign he was obliged
to go abroad, to avoid the resentment of the
clergy, on account of his having embraced
the doctrines of Wickliffe; however, he
returned privately, and was taken and im-
prisoned, and was not released until he
had made his submission and discovered
the names of those who had been associated
with him in embracing the new doctrine.
After having thus betrayed himself, he was
filled with remorse, and in his Testament of
Love deplores the disgrace into which his
conduct had led him. In 1386 he was
elected Knight of the shire of Kent, and
in 1389 Clerk of the works of Westminister
and Windsor and other palaces. At this
period he was in circumstances to follow
his own inclination, and being inclined to
poetry, and from his natural gifts in that re-
spect, about this time he wrote those im-
mortal works, which, it has been said by
some celebrated person, "From the knowl-
edge they contain of human nature, seem
to have been produced for all time."
	He married Phillippa de Roet, a lady of
good family, and by this chance he became
allied to John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster,
who was his great patron while he himself
was in power. Chaucer left two sons, one

[Column 2]

a speaker in the House of Commons, and
Ambassador to France.
	This is a brief account of the life of this
great and gifted poet, and now I will give
some account of his works, as I view them,
being very incompetent to judge of their
value, as I am not very familiar with them,
but will pass an opinion upon them from
what little I have investigated them.
	In the first place, to judge wisely or
correctly of the writings of a person, one
must take into consideration the age, the
state of society, the standard of literature
at the time of writing; and one must re-
member the rude and sad state of the En-
glish language at that remote period.
	We know that to a great extent, in the
fourteenth century the island was governed
by Norman knights, who spoke the French
language entirely, and whose dealings and
enterprises with other classes and those
under their charge were carried on in this
same language; therefore one cannot won-
der that Chaucer made use of so many
French words and phrases in his works.
	In the English language of to day we
can scarcely recognize, with that of the
14th century, in any words which we use
the e mute as in haste, taste, caste, &c.,
were pronounced as e feminine, in French,
making dissyllables of our monosyllables.
In order to fully appreciate and understand
Chaucer's works, one must study and be-
come acquainted with the grammar of the
language in that day.
	It is true that from his writings we ob-
tain the truest history of nations, customs,
manners, &c., as he had traveled and could
give reliable information on all these sub-
jects.
	He may positively be classed as one of
the greatest men of history. He was a
thorough scholar in literature, science and
theology. The "Canterbury Tales" are
ranked as his most brilliant works, although
there are many others that might be looked
upon as particularly worthy of notice.
Among his most choice selections I will
mention the following: Some from the
Canterbury Tales,The Prologue,The Knight,
The Squire, The Yeoman, The Nun, The
Clerk, The Sergeant at Law, The Franklin,
The Haberdasher, The Carpenter, The
Cook, The Skipper, The Doctor, The Good
Parson, The Plowman, The Miller, The
Reve.
	Perhaps this is sufficient for one who can
have so little conception of the character
and attainments of the great poet who has
passed away so long ago, and lived in an
age so unlike the present.
	In conclusion I will add a few lines from
his Canterbury Tales.
	Then this conclude I, sin that God of heven
	No[-]vol not that the philosophres neven,
	How that a man shal come unto this ston,
	I rode as for the best to let it gon.
	For who so maketh God his adversary,
	As for to werken anything in contrary
	Of his will, certes never shall he thrive,
	Though that he multiply terme of his live.
	And ther a point, for ended is my tale.
	God send every good man bote of his bale.*
		M.
*H [-]p for his evil, or trouble.


AFTER LONG YEARS.
LETTER X.
We wreathe a chaplet fair, yea, half-divine,
Of life's best flowers bedew'd with tender tears;
And round sweet memory's hallowed shrine,
We twine the garland, woven through long years.

 In looking back over our lives after many
years of toil, study and patient labor, and
making a sort of summary of it all, how
imperfect and incomplete it seems. And
yet, perhaps we should not do much better,
or glean much more happiness, or even
wisdom, could we have the opportunity to
live the years over again, with the great
programme before us.  No indeed; it is
evidently much better as it is; for who
would not shrink from the heavy trials that
occur even in the serenest lives, or hesitate
ere they embarked in enterprises which 
they knew could only end in disappoint-
ment to them, even though they benefitted
makind at large.  How could we ever for-
tify ourselves sufficiently to endure the
sorrows which fall so heavily that they al-
most crush us, and where would be the 
sweet visions of hope that gladden the 
heart, and give brilliancy to the mind, and
elasticity to the soul, if we knew that just
beyond the brightest moments, the most
delightful pleasures, there was a dark cloud
ready to burst upon us, dimming for a time
all the lustre reflected by the brightness of 
the past, crushing out the remembrances
that gladden, and enshrouding us in dark-
ness and gloom.  We should be denied
nearly all the sweetness that friendship
lends, and in youth particularly these ties
are woven, as it were, like a spell around
us; who cannot recall some very dear
friends of the days gone by, who shared
almost our every thought, who sympathized
with us in our sorrows, and whom we ex-
pected would remain faithful to the end of
our lives, yet by and by, coldness, indiffer-
ence, or mistrust crept in, and we became
estranged and felt all the bitterness of the
regret which follows, trust betrayed, or af-
fection outraged.  There are other and
stronger ties than those of friendship even,
that are sometimes broken asunder in a 
moment, or worn completely out by a con-
stant strain of heavy burdens long borne,
that tell upon us even more than all others,
that touch more acutely our sensitiveness,
inflicting wounds that never heal, that throb
painfully through the long weary days and 
sleepless nights, although, perhaps no mor-
tal shares the secret.  It is useless to at-
tempt to enumerate the various phases of
earth life, that were it opened in a pano-
rama before us would make us shrink with
alarm from taking a part in its contests.
The memory of the dead loved ones is
like mountains of weight upon our souls;
go where we will, there is no true compen-
sation for the loss; others may love us just
as well, but the place sacred to the departed
is never filled again.  There is ever after a
void that we are conscious of within our-
selves, e'en though we scarce dare trust the
acknowledgement of the secret to our own
heart.  Every being tills its own niche, not
only in the material world, but in the heart
and the affections.
There is in some lives a peculiar tendency
to happiness, and this it is well to cultivate.
Youth is generally hopeful and eagerly ex-
pectant of success, and this feeling should
be encouraged, for whatever we do, or feel,
the heart partakes of it more or less deeply,
and the more healthful and regular its
beats, the better for its possessor; for there
is no cessation of its active work, it is beat-
ing when work is done, when amusements
or pleasures are over, when sleep comes
like a soothing angel to our couches, no
matter, the heart never rests.  Ought we
not then to be careful and not unnecessarily
wound our own hearts, or the hearts of 
others.  Let us be wise in our mutual inter-
change of words, not to wound, for although
we may fancy the hearts of our associates
are callous, they may have bleeding wounds
that open afresh when pierced with the


cruel thorns, petty jealousies  and  sharp
thrusts of stinging sarcasms.  Who does
not know that every pulsation of life, every
thought which generates in the mind, has
an effect upon the heart.  In proof of this
is the fact that joy or sorrow has been known
to kill instantly.
	How gladly we recall the pleasant places
that stand out separate and apart from
everything else connected with our lives,
to which we turn with inward satisfaction,
passing by and ignoring more common-
place joys.  It is the same with sorrows,
they perfect and ennoble the soul.  Happy
are they who can bear all things, endure all,
hope all and remain firm and steadfast unto
the end.
	There are many sharp rocks that bruise
us, while we search for precious gems and
treasures, and we often grow faint and
weary with the difficulties that ever attend
those who are striving to overcome in spite
of all obstacles, but armed with a lofty pur-
pose and strengthened from within by deep
and pure aspirations, and clothed upon with
the sweet mantle of charity, we should
humbly pursue our onward course, and
whether we are surrounded by those who
love us, or left to bear life's burdens alone,
prove to ourselves, our God and His cause
that we are earnestly searching for truth
and light, and let us not, even after long
years of unrewarded toil, cease our endeav-
ors to promote good works.
						AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


THE second Session since the admission
of women to the full course at University
College London, begins next week, and it
is satisfactory to learn that the success of
the scheme hitherto has been complete.
After ten years of a kind of experiment or
compromise, in which instruction was given
to women by the Professors of the College,
but out of its regular course, the full cur-
riculum was last year opened in the regu-
lar way to both sexes. The result was
thoroughly satisfactory More than two
hundred women students entered, and no
difficulties of any kind have been experi-
enced. It is, indeed, not easy to imagine
a worse compliment to our society and its
manners than the supposition that any
difficulties were likely to occur. Ingenious
defenders of monasticism have pleaded in
its favor that during a certain period of the
world's history women, who from this
circumstance and that had no powerful
male protectors, were actually not safe any-
where save within a convent's walls, and
under cover of its ghostly guarantees.
The argument of the opponents of the
University College scheme amounts to a
confession that the manners of the nine-
teenth century have not materially im-
proved upon those of the eleventh. There
can be little doubt that by degrees some-
thing like a fair proportion (allowing for
conditions not likely to be altered) will be
established between the numbers of the
two sexes receiving higher education.
And we may add that it will be a very
good thing when the stage has been
reached—it has almost been reached now—
when a woman can receive the highest
culture, and exhibit its results without
being considered a heroine or a prodigy on
the one hand, and a monster or a victim on
the other. The success of the University
College programme ought to do not a
little to help on this desirable consumma-
tion.—"London Daily New."


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	A good remedy for a cough, also healing to the
lungs and safe as a medicine for all complaints of
this nature is—Four lemons cut fine and boiled
three hours, well covered with water, closely cov-
ered while boiling; then strain off the liquid,
add one teacupful of white sugar, and simmer it
tog[-]ther five minutes. It soon relieves the lungs.
		S.  Jacobs.
	For Group.—One teaspoonful of very finely
pulverized alum, two spoonfuls honey well beaten
together. If the case is a severe one, give a lit-
tle every five minutes; until the child is relieved.
Put the hands and feet in warm water at the
same time, covering the hands and feet with warm
flannel immediately when taken out of the water.
		S. S. Richards.


THE gentlemen at a dinner-table were
discussing the familiar line. "An honest
man's the noblest work of God,"when a little
son of the host spoke up and said: "It's not
true. My mother's better'n any man that
was ever made."


[Column 1]
	NEW GOODS.
HOME-MADE for the fal[-] of 1879. Young ladies Single
Shawls, Ladies Single and Double  Shaw[-]s, New
Styles in Stripe and Check Dress Flannels, New Style
Check Waterpr[--]fs, N w Styles in Linseys. Fine White
Yarn 2 and 3 ply for Ladies and Baby stockings, Grey
and W[---] Blanke[-]s, P[-]ain Whi[-]e, Red and B[-]u[-] Fl[-]nnels.
Tw[-]ll[-]  Red, Whit[-]  a d  G[-]ey F annel , Wool B[-]tting,
S[-]ell's [-]oap, Brooms, Trunks, Brushes, and other Home
Made Goods. MINNI[-] HO[-]N[-], Clerk,
		O[-]d Cons [--]ution Bu lding, Salt Lake City.

WHITEST! STRONGEST! BEST
[Image of an advertisement] PEORIA
SUPERB GLOSS
STARCH
FOR THE LAUNDRY.

PEORIA
IMPROVED
CORN STARCH
FOR THE TABLE.

[Left side of advertisment, written vertically] DON'T USE TOO MUCH PEORIA STARCH AT A TIME.

[Right side of advertisement, written vertically] AS LESS IS REQUIRED THAN OF MOST OTHER KINDS.
[Below advertisment] For Sale by Utah Wholesale and Re-
tail Grocers.

	HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR S[-]WING MACHINE.
IF not you should do so at [-]nce, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and withont any noise and confu-
sion, although the rate of speed is very high. Its self-
setting and self-threading [-]huttle, and absence of springs
and cogs renders it both simple and durable. Be sure to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend.
Victor Sewing Machine Co., Chicago, Ill.
	O.H.RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

	NEW FALL STOCK.
	F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[--]and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

[Column 2]
﻿DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
[Image of a hand pointing to text] Orders from the country promptly responped to.[Image of a hand pointing to text]
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	Has opened her Medical Class at her residence in the
13th Ward, two blocks and a half east of the Post Office
south side of the street, nearly opposite the Presbyterian
Church.
Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

TO THE LADIES!
HEALTH Corsets, Shoulder Braces, Skirt Supporters,
Back Braces, and Abdominal supporters for [-]ale or
made to order, by P. E. HARPER, First [-]outh Street,
nearly opposite Theatre.
	Mrs. ZINA D. YOUNG, agent for this Territory.
	Physicians and Ladies, call and examine.

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special departments for Gent's Clothing
and Carpets, Ladies and Children's Shoes,
Dry Goods, Shawls and Domestics,
Groceries, Hardware and Stoves.

DRIED FRUITS of all CLASES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.
	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
		JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
Salt Lake	City.	97 Kimball Block.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of 
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

H. DINWOODEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

