[Vol43 | January 1956 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Fiction | Title: Hermanas | Author: Tarlock]
[Hermanas — Chapter 7 Fay Tarlock]

In a moment the three of us were laughing HERMANAS without restraint, the innocent cake before us. "Pues," I picked up a crumb that had fallen on the table. "I think it can be done. When will you want it?" I was truly curious. OLITA beamed. "That will depend upon the novio, of course, but I have been doing much thinking, and I am of the opinion that the young people need not wait. I only ask that my daughter have a wedding worthy of her." She moved uneasily in her chair. "Before we speak of weddings, there is something I must say to you." "IT am waiting." "Senora, I must tell you tonight a burden is gone from me. I had not realized it myself until I made the telephone call, but I did not altogether act with unselfishness — as I pretended to myself. Oh, I thought I did everything for my daughter's sake, believe me, I thought it would be best for her, that in the years to come she would be grateful. Now I know that I was thinking more of myself... And that I denied the truth that had come to me." Hot tears stung my eyelids. It was not in me to blame her because she wanted a soft bed, the assurance of daily food, the luxury of an American dress. 'The security of things she could caress with her eyes and hold in her hands meant much to one who had lived in the twilight of bondage. What she had not understood was the fact that she was placing herself in another kind of bondage, perhaps more fretting than her earlier chains. And there was enough of the 51 child left in her to want the traditional wedding of her people. I patted her hand. "You feel there should be a wedding festival?" "If you're discussing weddings, we are two interested parties." Startled, we looked up to see Jim and Graciela standing in the archway. Jim's arm was possessively around his girl; their happiness was as warming as a fire. "Lolita has just said she would like my nut cake for the wedding, which means it must be soon for my supply is almost gone," I said looking at Jim. His expression was not all I had expected. Graciela, from the protection of his arm, smiled up at him. "You will believe me now, my Jaime, there is no reason why we should not be married very quickly." With her slender fingers she smoothed the deep furrow in his brow. "He," she said including us all in her happiness, "is already a vieyjo—worrying for fear my mother will delay us, worrying he won't have time to fix the house in San Angel. See, his wrinkles will not rub away." She removed her fingers to show us the furrow persisted. "I think a toast of limonade, supplemented with a piece of cake, would be appropriate before we get into further discussion." I reached for the cake and signalled for Amporo to fill the pitcher. "IT could go for that," Jim said, "I don't think I've eaten today." Picking up the cake, I led them to the larger table in the dining room. Amporo followed with the limonade and large bowls of corn flakes and milk, over which she lavishly sprinkled banana slices. The 52 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1956 national supper of the people, I thought. OT until Jim had settled back in contentment, Graciela's hand modestly in his, did I ask about his wedding doubts. "For one thing," Jim said reluctantly, "'there's the old house in San Angel. It isn't safe to live in, and it would take a lot of time and money to get even the necessary three rooms livable. Troubled, Graciela withdrew her hand. "You must remember, Jaime," she said softly, "We have been living there for some time." He was a little taken back. "I know," he said, "but things are different now." 'Taking both her hands, he looked at me for support. "The floors are so rotten, it's a wonder none of you have fallen through. And the plumbing!" He glared at the polished mahogany of the table. "I don't imagine it's been changed since the days of the viceroys." "A sanitario was installed the year before I went to work for the Urbinas," Lolita said with hurt dignity. Jim winked at me, his face straight. ""There's running water, too, all cold. And have you seen the sink? It looks like something Cortez dreamed up for the whole army to use. And that brick masterpiece that takes up half the kitchen was used to cook the first meal, centuries ago." "I have a right to live in the house as long as I desire.' Lolita was firm. Designed to be a_ peacemaker, Graciela drew them together with her loving glance. To Jim she said, "It is not as bad as you say. We live there and are healthy. Before long I shall have money saved, then we can make the repairs you think necessary. But we do not wait for those, do we?" "I guess we'll sleep over it, anyway.' Jim smiled at his two women. I was willing to give Jim my support. "We've decided enough for one night." I pushed my chair back and stood a little apart, surveying them. Then quite unexpectedly I heard myself saying, "You want to be married soon, don't you, Jim?" "What do you think?" His lips touched the burnished roll of Graciela's pompadour. There was a puzzling look on Lolita's face as she watched them. Looking at me as if for permission to speak, she rose and stood beside me. "I am the eldest, you would do well to listen to me." All of us turned our eyes on her. "The time for you to be married is now — very soon, I mean. It will help to forget the sorrow of these past few weeks and the two of you can go about your work, not waste time dreaming. Is that not right, Senora?" Emphatically I nodded, glad for her wisdom. "And, in addition," the color rose in her face, "the Senor Munoz is away from Mexico for a short time. I do not anticipate trouble..." she stopped Jim's protest with a gesture of her hands. "As I say, there will be no trouble, and I, myself, will go to him immediately on his return, but it will be better, if the marriage is accomplished." A sweet smile lighted her eyes. "I ask only that there be a wedding worthy of my daughter."