[Vol43 | January 1956 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Fiction | Title: Sixty]
[Sixty Years Ago]
Sixty    LJears  S/igo 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  January  1,  and  January  15,  1896 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  all  Nations" 
THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  IN  BUNKERVILLE,  NEVADA:  On  the  23rd  of 
Nov.,  we  left  for  Bunkerville,  crossing  the  Rio  Virgin  a  great  number  of  times.  When 
we  were  nearing  Bunkerville,  the  braces  on  our  carriage  tongue  broke  and  left  us  in  the 
river;  through  the  kindness  of  our  esteemed  friend  George  F.  Jarvis,  we  were  carried 
out  and  landed  on  terra  firma  ....  We  met  with  the  Relief  Society  sisters.  They  own 
a  lot  containing  an  almond  orchard  also  a  granary,  and  something  over  a  hundred  bush- 
els of  wheat.  We  advised  them  to  make  what  improvements  they  could  and  turn 
their  almonds  into  grain,  and  store  it  against  the  time  of  need  .... 
— Ann  C.  Woodbury 
TO  MRS.  ZINA  D.  H.  YOUNG 
(on  Her  Birthday) 
From  ev'ry  saint  that  dwelleth  here, 
From  saints  that  long  this  land  to  see, 
This  day  is  wafted  heavenward 
Remembrances  and  prayers  for  thee. 
From  weary  march  and  roofless  camp 
Unto  the  temples  famed  and  grand 
Thy  feet  trod  first  the  barrenness 
And  to  His  houses  lent  thy  hand. 
— Augusta  Joyce  Crocheron 
WOMAN'S  SUFFRAGE  ASSOCIATION:  The  W.S.A.  of  Parowan  held  an 
exultation  meeting  the  evening  of  the  seventh.  It  was  a  general  time  of  rejoicing.  The 
house  was  filled  to  o'er  flowing  as  it  generally  is  at  the  meetings  of  the  W.S.A.  The 
room  was  neatly  decorated  for  the  occasion.  After  the  opening  exercises  yellow  ribbon 
badges  were  passed  to  all  present.  The  program  consisted  of  speeches,  songs,  music 
from  the  orchestra  and  band.    Many  were  called  on  for  sentiments  or  expressions  of  their 
feelings  on  this  joyful  occasion  (the  granting  of  statehood  to  Utah)   
—J.  M.  L. 
DYING,  YET  LIVING 
After  seasons  of  storm-cloud  and  sunshine 
Close  the  year  with  unerring  pace, 
The  traces  of  pleasure  or  trial 
Are  written  on  mind,  heart  and  face. 
Again  we  pause  for  a  reckoning — 
Contrition,  and  solemn  resolve; 
Sweet  conscience  silently  beckoning 
While  many  new  plans  we  evolve, 
That  will  chasten,  uplift,  and  inspire 
To  feelings  more  pure  and  divine  .  .  . 
— E.  R.  Shipp 
Page  30