[Vol43 | January 1956 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Enduring | Author: Ekman]
[Enduring Memories — Second Prize Poem Beatrice K. Ekman]
found  it.  The  enduring,  the  classic 
Hardy  is  also  best  seen  in  his  simple, 
moving  "In  Time  of  The  Breaking 
of  Nations''  (page  926),  his  re- 
assuring affirmation  written  during 
the  first  world  war  in  protest  to  the 
ravages  of  war  within  the  human 
soul. 
Hardy,  the  Novelist 
For  Virginia  Woolf,  Thomas 
Hardy  is  "one  of  the  greatest  writers 
of  tragedy  in  fiction."  His  best 
novels  create  within  themselves 
great  poetic  and  dramatic  power. 
Hardy  is  a  master  storyteller  who, 
with  a  realist's  eye,  compassion,  and 
an  insight  deep  into  humanity,  in 
his  best  works,  often  told  far  better 
than  he  knew. 
The  Return  of  the  Native 
This  novel,  great  as  it  is,  might

64 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1956 
not  be  Hardy's  greatest;  but  certain- 
ly it  is  his  most  representative. 
Within  its  pages  we  find  humor, 
superstition,  realism,  romance,  na- 
ture, conflict,  suffering,  tragedy.  It 
illustrates  Hardy's  fundamental  be- 
lief that  "a  novel  is  an  impression, 
not  an  argument."  Herein  he  argues 
nothing:  instead  he  tells  a  great 
story  with  magnificent  power  as 
seen  through  the  eyes  of  an  observ- 
er, kindred  but  detached. 
Plot 
Lovely,  innocent  Thomasin  Yeobright 
lies  concealed  in  the  van  of  her  former 
sweetheart  Diggory  Venn,  the  reddleman 
(or  red  ocher  peddlar),  as  she  returns 
from  the  town  where  she  could  not  marry 
Damon  Wildeve  because  the  license  was 
faulty.  Wildeve  had  been  infatuated  with 
fiery  Eustacia  Vye,  and  wasn't  too  fervent 
in  his  desire  to  marry  Thomasin.  That 
same  night  Eustacia  by  building  a  huge 
bonfire  signals  Wildeve  at  his  Quiet 
Woman  Inn  to  come  to  her.  Despite  his 
vow  to  give  her  up,  he  goes  to  meet 
Eustacia,  but  each  is  unhappy.  A  boy 
reports  their  meeting  to  Diggory,  who 
pleads  with  Eustacia  to  leave  Wildeve  for 
Diggory's  beloved  Thomasin,  that  she 
might  be  happy. 
When  Thomasin's  cousin,  Clym  Yeo- 
bright ("the  native"),  returns  to  the 
heath  from  his  life  as  a  diamond  merch- 
ant in  Paris,  Eustacia  goes  disguised  to 
the  welcoming  party.  They  fall  in  love, 
and  Eustacia  marries  him  partly  because 
through  him  she  hopes  to  escape  the  dull 
life  on  the  heath.  But  Clym  becomes 
nearly  blind.  When  he  becomes  a  menial 
brush-cutter,  Eustacia  feels  degraded. 
Partly  in  resentment  she  begins  seeing 
Wildeve  again.  Clym's  mother  from  the 
beginning  of  the  affair  had  distrusted 
Eustacia  and  opposed  the  marriage.  Re- 
lenting, she  called  at  their  home,  but  be- 
cause Wildeve  was  there,  Eustacia  dared 
not  answer  her  knock.  Deeply  hurt  and 
exhausted,  Mrs.  Yeobright  begins  her  re- 
turn over  the  hot,  barren  heath,  but  is 
bitten  by  a  snake  and  dies.  When  Clym 
finds  how  she  died,  he  orders  Eustacia  out 
of  his  house.     She  returns  to  her  grand- 
father's house  in  despair  and  attempts 
suicide.  Wildeve,  now  rich  through  an 
inheritance,  pleads  with  her  to  elope  with 
him.  The  night  she  leaves  to  meet  him, 
Clym  delivers  to  her  room  a  letter  of 
reconciliation  which  she  fails  to  see.  Wan- 
dering about  on  the  dark  heath  either  she 
falls  or  jumps  into  a  pond.  Wildeve  hears 
her  death-struggle  and  attempts  to  rescue 
her,  but  both  drown. 
Here  the  original  novel  ended,  but 
when  his  public  objected  to  so  gloomy 
an  ending  Hardy  added  a  happier  one. 
Clym  gives  up  his  attempt  to  lift  up  the 
heftth-folk  by  teaching  them  and  becomes 
a  traveling  teacher,  and  the  unselfish  and 
patient  Diggory  finally  wins  Thomasin. 
Excerpts,  Characters,  Conflicts 
The  great  force  in  the  novel  is 
Eustacia,  in  conflict  with  the  time- 
less Egdon  Heath  which  has  been 
her  only  home.  In  Book  First, 
Hardy  at  once  displays  his  powers 
by  defining  its  majestic,  brooding 
splendor.  The  beginning  ''The 
heath  wore  the  appearance  of  an 
installment  of  night  .  .  .  ."  from 
chapter  I,  is  a  good  example. 
Chapter  III  contains  tangy  talk 
and  humor  of  the  heath-folk  and  re- 
veals Hardy's  delight  in  pixies, 
ghosts,  and  racy  talk.  Chapter  VII 
describes  Eustacia,  "Queen  of 
Night  .  .  .  raw  material  of  a  divin- 
ity," "Assuming  that  the  souls  of 
men  and  women  were  visible  es- 
sences, you  could  fancy  the  colour 
of  Eustacia's  soul  to  be  flame-like. 
The  sparks  from  it  that  rose  into 
her  dark  pupils  gave  the  same  im- 
pression." 
In  Book  Second,  chapter  VII, 
Diggory  brings  to  Wildeve,  Eusta- 
cia's letter  ending  their  relation,  to 
Diggory's  delight.  For  humor, 
irony,  and  reversal,  read  the  dia- 
logue in  which  Diggory  replies 
"Ru-um-tum-tum"     to     Wildeve's

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
65 
pained  questions,  only  to  have  the 
tables  completely  turned  a  minute 
later. 
In  Book  Third,  chapter  II, 
Clym's  great  love  for  humankind  is 
defined.  For  him  the  heath  gives 
"a  barbarous  satisfaction  at  observ- 
ing that,  in  some  of  the  attempts  at 
reclamation  from  the  waste,  tillage, 
after  holding  on  for  year  or  two, 
had  receded  again  in  despair,  the 
ferns  and  furze-tufts  stubbornly  re- 
asserting themselves."  He  was  the 
heath,  and  completely  at  home 
there. 
One  of  the  most  powerful  scenes 
is  in  chapter  VIII,  when  Diggory 
wins  back  from  Wildeve  all  the 
money  he  had  won  by  gambling 
from  innocent  Christian.  When  a 
death's-head  moth  snuffs  out  the 
candle,  and  feverish  Wildeve  re- 
sumes throwing  the  dice  in  a  des- 
perate effort  to  regain  his  losses— 
when  a  drove  of  wild  ponies  move 
out  of  the  gloom,  attracted  by  the 
light— then  we  have  Hardy  at  his 
realistic  best. 
For  power  of  dialogue,  read  in 
Book  Fourth  the  first  chapter, 
when  Eustacia  and  Mrs.  Yeobright, 
her  mother-in-law,  flare  up  over  a 
misunderstanding.  Here  are  two 
strong  wills  that  neither  bend  nor 
break  each  other.  Chapter  V  re- 
cords Mrs.  Yeobright's  journey 
across  the  heath,  and  the  painful 
conversation  she  tries  to  carry  on 
with  young  Johnny  Nunsuch  after 
her  son's  door  was  not  opened  to 
her.  The  innocent  bewilderment 
of  the  child,  and  the  scarcely  con-