[Vol43 | January 1956 | Sequence: 23 | Category: General Feature | Title: FEATURES | Author: Thompson]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes from Argentina Keith F. Thompson]
develops  onlv  when  the  features  of 
the  Magazine  are  pictured  as  bene- 
fits by  a  sincere,  cheerful,  enthusias- 
tic, and  persuasive  salesperson. 
To  do  a  topflight  job  of  selling 
your  excellent  Magazine,  excel  in 
these  suggestions: 
i.  Get  to  work  at  once  and  see  all  your 
prospects  immediately  —  don't  delay  or 
proceed  hit  or  miss.  Pitch  in,  anticipate 
success,  banish  discouragement  and  a  nega- 
tive attitude,  radiate  enthusiasm  and  joy 
in  the  work.     And  do  it  now! 
2.  When  people  hesitate  and  refuse  to 
subscribe,  ask  "Why?"  Find  out  the 
real  objection.  Then,  answer  it  in  a 
pleasant,  calm  manner.  Use  facts,  testi- 
monials, and  brief  stories  that  show  how 
and  why  those  who  subscribe  benefit. 
Under  no  circumstances  get  into  an  argu- 
ment. 
When  you  have  completed  your 
presentation  of  the  benefits  to  be 
enjoyed  from  subscribing,  when  you 
have  taken  the  dark  glasses  from 
your  prospect's  eyes  and  enabled  her 
to  see  what  she  will  lose  if  she  de- 
prives herself  of  the  Magazine,  sug- 
gest that  she  subscribe  now!     And

HOW  TO  SELL  THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
37 
give  her  a  choice  between  two  al- 
ternatives, either  of  which  will  re- 
sult in  a  subscription.  Don't  ask 
her  to  choose  between  something 
and  nothing.  Help  her  decide  not 
between  subscribing  or  not  subscrib- 
ing, but  between  such  alternatives 
as: 
Should  the  subscription  begin  with  next 
month's  issue  or  the  following  one? 
Should  the  subscription  come  in  the 
name  of  Mrs.  Frank  Smith  or  Mrs.  Ruth 
Smith?  and  so  on. 
Apply  these  simple  principles  of 
good  salesmanship  and  observe  how 
much  easier  the  work  of  getting 
subscriptions  is— and  how  greatly 
your  subscribers  increase,  and  with 
less  effort. 
Now,  go  to  work,  and  have  fun! 
[Polio  Usn  t  JLicked    Ljet
