[Vol43 | January 1956 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
[Literature Thomas Hardy "Teh Return of the Native" Braint S. Jacobs]
60 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1956 
may  be  served  over  vegetables  to  en- 
hance their  natural  flavor.  Mock 
HoIIandaise  sauce  is  delicious  served 
over  broccoli,  asparagus,  and  cauli- 
flower. Cheese  sauces  add  food 
value  and  complement  the  flavors 
of  spinach,  cabbage,  cauliflower, 
and  beans.  Egg  sauce  and  horse- 
radish sauce  are  others  that  add  in- 
terest and  delightful  flavors  to  many 
vegetables.  For  exact  amounts  of 
ingredients  to  add  to  the  white 
sauce  for  the  particular  sauce  you 
desire,  see  any  reliable  cook  book. 
Dress  up  your  vegetables  for  va- 
riety's sake  occasionally,  but  don't 
make  a  regular  practice  of  it.  Learn 
to  know  and  appreciate  the  true, 
Note  the  supplementary  material  to  this  lesson  in  the  article  "Vegetables — A  Dif- 
ferent Way  Every  Day,  Part  11"  by  Rhea  H.  Gardner,  on  page  46  of  this  issue  of 
The  Relief  Society  Magazine. 
natural  flavor  of  good  vegetables, 
cooked  well,  and  seasoned  with  but- 
ter and  a  little  salt. 
Get  out  of  the  rut  of  serving  the 
same  vegetable  over  and  over.  There 
is  such  a  variety  for  selection  in  our 
markets.  Let  it  be  a  challenge  to 
try  out  new  ones  as  well  as  new 
methods  of  cooking  them. 
Suggestions  for  the  Class  Leader 
1.  Demonstrate  the  preparation  of  one 
or  more  unusual  vegetable  dishes  or  bring 
to  the  class  some  you  have  previously 
prepared. 
2.  List  vegetables  that  are  not  common- 
ly used  which  might  be  enjoyed  by  our 
families 
JLtterature — The  Literature  of  England 
Lesson  55-Thomas  Hardy  (1840-1928)  "The  Return  of  the  Native" 
Elder  Briant  S.  Jacobs 
(Textbook:  The  Literature  of  England,  II,  Woods,  Watt,  Anderson,  pp.  918-926) 
For  Tuesday,  April  17,  1956 
Objective:  To  achieve  greater  insight  into  the  world  of  Thomas  Hardy  by  studying 
briefly  his  life,  some  of  his  poems,  and  one  of  his  great  novels  (The  Return  of  the 
Native). 
HTHOMAS  Hardy  is  one  of  the 
Titans  of  English  Literature. 
He  wrote  fourteen  novels  and  more 
than  nine  hundred  poems.  Because 
of  such  productivity  Hardy  can  be 
known  completely  only  by  the 
scholar.  Even  when  we  select  rigor- 
ously from  his  best  works,  it  is  most 
difficult  within  our  small  time  span 
to  choose  that  which  represents 
fairly  his  basic  excellences. 
Hardy's  Life 
Hardy  was  born  in  Dorsetshire,  a 
rural  county  bordering  England's 
southern  seacoast,  which  was  to  be- 
come the  Wessex  of  his  poems  and 
the  Egdon  Heath  of  The  Return  of 
the  Native.  His  father,  a  carpenter 
and  mason,  gave  his  son  hardly 
more  formal  education  than  the 
three  R's,  but  he  made  up  for  it  by 
breaking  him  to  the  hard  tasks  of