[Vol43 | January 1956 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: How to | Author: Garff]
HOW TO SELL THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. A) give her a choice between two alShould the subscription come in the ternatives, either of which will reame of Mrs. Frank Smith or Mrs. Ruth. Wane; Smith? And so on. Sult in a subscription. Don't ask her to choose between something Apply these simple principles of and nothing. Help her decide not — good salesmanship and observe how between subscribing or not subscribtyuch easier the work of getting ing, but between such alternatives subscriptions is—and how greatly = your subscribers increase, and with Should the subscription begin with next less effort. Month's issue or the following one? Now, go to work, and have fun! — Polio Ysnt Licked Yet Basil O'Connor President, The National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis Many people mistakenly believe that, now that we have an effective polio vaccine, the fight against the disease is over and there is no further need for the March of Dimes. Polio Isn't Licked Yet. 'This theme of the 1956 March of Dimes seeks to drive home the fact that the fight against polio must continue unabated even though a March of Dimes vaccine has been developed, tested, and administered to several million children. Polio Isn't Licked Yet. Why? Because we cannot forget the polio victims of yesterday, today, and, yes, tomorrow.... Because vital March of Dimes research must continue Because the training of desperately needed medical and scientific people must go on until polio is really licked. Polio Isn't Licked Yet. But the reading and listening habits of this busy nation are such that the phrase Salk vaccine automatically means to many that the end of polio is already with us. Of course, no success comes this quickly and it would be a desperate tragedy if true success were delayed by such a misconception. Polio challenges still confronting the American people include: 1, Continued scientific research to improve the vaccine and to find ways to overcome crippling left by the disease itself. 2. Assistance to the tens of thousands of persons already stricken with polio and to those who will come down with the disease before the vaccine is universally used. 3. Professional education to increase the number of skilled heads and hands in polio hospitals and laboratories. 4. Education to increase public demand for polio protection. In all candor, continued progress toward the eventual control of polio can proceed at full speed only if people realize that we still have a long way to go. And even as I thank you for all your past cooperation, I appeal to you anew to throw your full support behind the 1956 March of Dimes.
