[Vol43 | January 1956 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work | Author: Gardner]
[Work Meeting: Vegetable Cookery (Continued) Rhea H. Gardner]

They are not to be considered as growing out of, or in any necessary way, concerned with, related to, or enlarged by his powers as Commander in Chief It is wholly governed by Constitutionai provision and limitation. 'Thus-far-shaltthou-go-and-no-farther is inherent in the whole situation (Clark: J. Reuben, Jr., "Let Us Not Sell. Our Children Into Slavery''). Treaty Making Power The treaty-making power under the Constitution is likewise divided. It is the duty and prerogative of the Presidential Office to negotiate treaties, to appoint all ambassadors, consular officers, and _representatives, and to conduct our foreign affairs. All treaties and diplomatic appointments are subject to Senate ratification. It is interesting to see how this constitutional authority, divided as it is, has worked out in actual practice. Commitment of Armed Forces Previous to Declaration of War As far as the wars in which America has been involved are concerned, declaration of war in every case, except one, has followed the commitment of our armed forces to action by the President. The sole exception was the war of 1812. American armed forces have been sent abroad into action over one hundred times in engagements too limited in scope to be defined as war. Our recent experience in the Korean War is a case in point. United States troops were ordered into action with no previous consultation of Congress whatsoever. In the case of World War II, aggressive, war-like action was undertaken upon presidential order far in advance of war declaration. Intention of Founding Fathers It was not intended by the Founding Fathers that the presidential authority should extend to making war without the action of Congress to approve it. On the other hand, it was also not intended that the hands of the President should be helplessly tied in the event world crises made it imperative, in the face of national peril, to use the Nation's armed forces to repel attack or to prevent a threatened attack from becoming successful. In this sphere of constitutional function it was impossible to draw the lines sharply and with absolute certainty. Under these conditions the personality of the President is of unique and very special importance. Our history has proved that the United States can be committed to war by the President. Once we are so committed it is very difficult if not impossible to withdraw. In the case of Korea, perhaps, it LESSON DEPARTMENT may be said that the President acted to meet a situation requiring instant decision. Without debating the merits of the Korean War or of any other war in which the United States has been engaged in the past, one thing at least stands out with crystal clarity—may heaven preserve us from the misfortune of an irresponsible, ambitious President who could, without our consent, involve us in foreign adventures which could result in our destruction! It must be remembered that the conditions of this modern world are so critical and so pressing that strong, decisive, speedy action is often necessary. 'The President alone can provide this kind of action.