[Vol43 | January 1956 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Poem | Title: POETRY | Author: Robbins]
[POETRY "Today," by Etta Robbins]
lessons  and  wonderful  poetry.  The 
character-building  and  literary  attributes  of 
the  Magazine  are  something  fresh  and 
clean.  I  had  the  pleasure  of  meeting  a 
fine  group  of  writers  from  Utah  at  the 
regional  meeting  of  the  National  League 
of  American  Pen  Women  in  Cheyenne, 
Wyoming,  in  May.  I  especially  enjoyed 
the  musical  program  put  on  by  Mirla  G. 
Thayne  of  Provo.  Others  I  had  the  pleas- 
ure of  meeting  were:  Dorothy  Rea,  Olive 
W.  Burt,  Mabel  Harmer,  Oliver  Milner, 
Naomi  W.  Randall,  and  Christie  Lund 
Coles. 
— Amelia  V.  Christeson 
Lajunta.  Colorado 
I  have  found  much  pleasure  in  reading 
the  October  issue  of  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine.  The  lovely  sonnet  "I  Found 
October"  by  Agnes  Just  Reid  is  explicit 
and  alive  with  imagery.  The  article 
"Wearing  a  Pretty  Face,"  by  Mabel  Law 
Atkinson  is  arresting  and  the  import  re- 
vealing. It  is  also  vividly  realistic,  as  are 
her  exquisite  poems. 
— Helen  Gee  Woods 
Idaho  Falls,  Idaho 
The  Relief  Society  Magazine  means  so 
much  to  our  family  while  we  are  away 
from  home  and  have  no  place  to  attend 
Church  activities.  My  husband  and  I 
both  enjoy  the  stories  and  lessons. 
— Phyllis  Grant 
Naples,  Italy 
Our  members  in  the  French  Mission 
who  read  English  are  thoroughly  enjoying 
the  Magazine.  The  other  members  en- 
joy it  through  them,  and  I  am  sure  it  is 
a  means  whereby  our  sisters  feel  them- 
selves a  part  of  a  truly  great  organization. 
We  surely  appreciate  receiving  the  copies 
that  we  distribute  among  our  Relief  So- 
ciety sisters  each  month. 
— Rachel  L.  Lee 
President 
French  Mission  Relief  Society 
Paris,  France 
Six  of  my  ancestors  were  pioneers 
of  Utah,  and  I  have  been  a  member  of 
Relief  Society  for  more  than  thirty  years, 
having  served  as  First  Counselor,  visiting 
teacher,  and  class  leader.  The  wonderful 
lessons  have  been  an  inspiration  to  me, 
and  as  a  regular  subscriber,  I  have  saved 
my  Magazines. 
— Edda  Simons  Noon 
Payson,  Utah 
The  Cover:  Mountain  Vista  in  the  National  Park  near  Bariloche  by  the  Nahuel 
Huapi  Lake,  Argentina,  South  America,  Photograph  submitted  by 
Amy  Y.  Valentine 
Frontispiece  Photograph:  Mistletoe  at  Grand  Canyon,  Arizona 
Photograph  by  Josef  Muench 
Cover  Design  by  Evan  Jensen 
Page  2