[Vol43 | January 1956 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Poem | Title: Threshold | Author: Berry]
["Threshold," by Catherine E. Berry]
On  the  threshold  of  time  we  say  a  prayer 
For  all  of  the  days  that  will  be, 
May  wc  follow  the  star  that  is  gleaming  out  there, 
To  the  goal  of  our  destiny. 
Page  14

J/L\vam    vytfifiers 
^rinnual  LKeltef  Society  Snort  Story  L^ontest 
rpHE  Relief  Society  general  board 
is  pleased  to  announce  the 
award  winners  in  the  Annual  Relief 
Society  Short  Story  Contest  which 
was  announced  in  the  May  1955 
issue  of  the  Magazine,  and  which 
closed  August  15,  1955. 
The  first  prize  of  fifty  dollars  is 
awarded  to  Maryhale  Woolsey,  Salt 
Lake  City,  for  her  story  "Now  Is  a 
Man  Grown."  The  second  prize  of 
forty  dollars  is  awarded  to  Margaret 
Hardy,  Salt  Lake  City,  for  her  story 
"Keep  Me  Forever."  The  third 
prize  of  thirty  dollars  is  awarded  to 
Edith  Larson,  Manton,  Michigan, 
for  her  story  "Room  for  Nancy." 
Mrs.  Woolsey  is  a  first-time  win- 
ner in  the  Annual  Relief  Society 
Short  Story  Contest,  although  she 
is  a  frequent  contributor  to  the 
Magazine.  Mrs.  Hardy  and  Mrs. 
Larson  also  appear  as  award  winners 
for  the  first  time.  It  is  interesting  to 
note  that  this  year,  for  the  first  time 
since  the  contests  were  initiated,  the 
same  woman  has  won  the  first  prize 
both  in  the  Eliza  R.  Snow  Poem 
Contest  and  in  the  Short  Story  Con- 
test. 
The  Annual  Relief  Society  Short 
Storv  Contest  was  first  conducted 
by  the  Relief  Society  general  board 
in  1941,  as  a  feature  of  the  Relief 
Society  centennial  observance,  and 
was  made  an  annual  contest  in  1942. 
The  contest  is  open  only  to  Latter- 
day  Saint  women  who  have  had  at 
least  one  literary  composition  pub- 
lished or  accepted  for  publication  by 
a  periodical  of  recognized  merit. 
The   three   prize-winning   stories 
will  be  published  consecutively  in 
the  first  three  issues  of  The  Relief 
Society  Magazine  for  1956. 
Thirty-four  stories  were  entered 
in  the  contest  for  1955.  Many  of 
these  stories  were  unusually  well 
written. 
The  contest  was  initiated  to  en- 
courage Latter-day  Saint  women  to 
express  themselves  in  the  field  of 
fiction.  The  general  board  feels 
that  the  response  to  this  opportun- 
ity continues  to  increase  the  literary 
quality  of  The  Relief  Society  Maga- 
zine, and  will  aid  the  women  of  the 
Church  in  the  development  of  their 
gifts  in  creative  writing. 
Prize-winning  stories  are  the  prop- 
erty of  the  Relief  Society  general 
board,  and  may  not  be  used  for  pub- 
lication by  others  except  on  written 
permission  from  the  general  board. 
The  general  board  also  reserves  the 
right  to  publish  any  of  the  stories 
submitted  in  the  contest,  paying  for 
them  at  the  time  of  publication  at 
the  regular  Magazine  rate. 
A  writer  who  has  received  the  first 
prize  for  two  consecutive  years  must 
wait  two  years  before  she  is  again 
eligible  to  enter  the  contest. 
The  general  board  congratulates 
the  prize-winning  contestants,  and 
expresses  appreciation  to  all  those 
who  submitted  stories.  Sincere 
gratitude  is  extended  to  the  judges 
for  their  discernment  and  skill  in 
selecting  the  prize-winning  stories. 
The  general  board  also  acknowl- 
edges, with  appreciation,  the  work 
of  the  short  storv  committee  in 
supervising  the  contest. 
Page  15

QJtrst  y^rtze-  vt/inniag  Story 
Kslnnual  LKe/tef  Society  Snort  Story   Contest
