[Vol43 | January 1956 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Fiction | Title: In | Author: Nebeker]
[In Memoriam — Emeline Young Nebeker]

"Well have hamburgers and meat loaf every dinner until Christmas," she declared, waving her list. AUL looked up from his book and said emphatically: "TI like hamburgers. Those meat loaves you dream up are better than roast pheasant." Sybil laughed. Then she said hesitantly: "Paul, do you mind?... I mean... Will it be all right if I sort of juggle my budget? As long as I can see our way clear, do you mind if I sort of?" Paul's grin interrupted _ her. "You're the banker. I don't mind you shuffling the budget. I trust your good judgment." His eyes were on his book, as he said very quietly: "Sybil, if you're thinking about the children, and Christmas, I love you for it. But no one can buy the real deep-down spirit of Christmas." Her flush was so fiery that she hid her face as she checked her list. Paul had guessed how she felt, how important it was for her to find her way into the children's hearts. Yet he continued slowly, "I've nothing against giving presents. 'The Wise Men traveled to Bethlehem to make gifts to their King. But there was a great deal more to their journey 44 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1956 than that. They went carrying gifts which were only the outward glitter for the true meaning of what they carried in their hearts. I know the children are selfish. Perhaps it's my fault. Perhaps I've spoiled them She wouldn't let him blame himself. She cried miserably: "It's not your fault, darling. It's mine. I want them to love me. But I don't know how. That's why I want them to have the sort of Christmas they've always had." Even as she said it, she knew how... Yes, cheap... It sounded, trying to buy love with presents. Paul shook his head solemnly. "It won't kurt them to go without just this once. Perhaps this will help teach them the true meaning of the season. I have hopes that they know what is right." "Perhaps..." agreed Sybil faintly. But deep inside she couldn't be sure. It wasn't only Christmas, or the lack of gifts that madePaul's children seem selfish, hard, and cold towards her. 'There was a much deeper reason. Sybil knew until Paul's children wanted her love, even Paul's quiet reasoning couldn't make them give their love to her. HAT evening when Paul and the children formed their usual close little circle in the living room, Sybil pretended to be very busy in the kitchen. Their voices were faint threads of sound as they talked and talked. She wished fervently that they'd need her, that they'd call her into the room. But when they finished talking to Paul, all of them went upstairs to bed. Paul told her that he had explained about her mother and father, and she busied herself with helping him get ready for the night so that he would not see traces of disappointment in her eyes. "You wouldn't like to change your mind, Sybil?' asked Paul, when she kissed him goodnight, but she shook her head and tried to answer without a quiver. "Maybe, next Christmas, Paul. I've written mother, and I'm sure she'll understand."