LETTER	VIII.

On the banks of a murm'ring, limpid stream,
Away in the shade of a hemlock grove,
In midsummer time I would sit and dream
Of the future bright, with its wealth of love.

	And such is life’s “young dream,” often
from which comes the sad awakening to a
sense of the dismal, the dreary, the weary
cares, vexations and trials of every day
life. And yet how much the sunshine of
these happy hours cheers, stimulates and
strengthens one in life's battles. The child-
life made happy by love and attention of
dear friends and affectionate parents is
equivalent to fairy land; for does not some
good angel hover near to soothe all the woes
of children? Yes; the mother, the elder
sister, the aunt, these good, true friends
who are all kindness, and who only require
obedience in return for all their loving care.
How easy is the obedience of love; how
gracefully does love adapt itself to duty.
It is the pleasant phase of life almost inva-
riably that presents itself to the young, and
children are apt to think that it is an easy
matter as they grow older to make their
pathway upward and onward without much
difficulty; but they find as years roll on that
there are various experiences that call forth
all the reserved forces of their nature to keep
them from being overcome, or bowed down
under an accumulation of difficulties, or
even perhaps misfortunes. 
	For these emergencies they should culti-
vate in early life a vast amount of courage;
never let any little disappointment daunt
you, if you know you are in the right. Ap-
ply yourself vigorously to whatever you
undertake, and if the task is hard, summon
all your strength, whether it be mental, or
physical, or both, and you will be happier,
even if the struggle be a hard one, than if
you yield to the first difficulty in your way.
To girls or boys this lesson will apply; but
to girls especially I would say, do not give
up too easily when you have wisely and by
the advice of friends marked out a course
to pursue. If you do you will regret it
afterwards, and will never feel that satis-
faction which comes from the fulfillment of
a fixed purpose; for be sure, whatever your
future lot may be, whatever rank, or posi-
tion, you may occupy, you will be the bet-
ter qualified and fortified by discipline in
some regular pursuit.
	I know that in many families there is
much home work that requires girls’ atten-
tion, and they grow weary of what they
term drudgery, and become impatient and.
restless, and mothers are very apt to think
that pleasure is the only reactive agent, and
consequently they allow them to go to
the other extreme, which is quite as de-
pressing and more injurious to health and
activity of mind. Do not live for pleasure
alone. Have an object, and let it be a real
one; one that will call out all your dormant
energies, and one in which you can engage
with real enthusiasm, because of your love
for it; but if it is not possible to attain to
the pursuit you desire now, prepare your-
self by self-culture and thorough self-train-
ing, so that when the time comes that you
can take hold of the work you are most, or
best adapted to, you will do it understand-
ingly. It is said “Where there is a will
there is a way,” and history and observa-
tion teach us that whoever (man or woman)
has risen to any degree of eminence, has
had many hindrances, been met with oppo-
sition, and labored under an accumulation
of difficulties, ere they succeeded. Do not
despair because you are not encouraged;
that is the shoal on which many are
wrecked who start out with every breeze
propitious; difficulty comes along and they
feel the need of a helping hand. They are
met with coolness perchance, or some less
ambitious, or envious person, not compre-
hending them, attributes selfish motives
and disheartens them; or, it may be careless
indifference on the part of those who look
on, having no sympathy in that direction;
and ofttimes those who start out bravely
shrink back because they are not equal to
the emergencies they must necessarily en-
counter, and thus they grow dissatisfied
with themselves and make life a failure,
instead of a blessing and a help. It often
requires long years of toil and patient in-
dustry to gain the goal of our hopes, and
even then many die without having scarce
a foretaste of the blessing for which they
have faithfully labored; but yet there is
much that is pleasant in anticipation, and
when we can cast aside the gloomy pictures
which hang all around life’s pathway, and
pierce with the eye of faith into the dis-
tant horizon and see oven a faint glimmer
of a rosy dawn, where all we have striven
to attain here shall be given to the faithful
worker, it gives fresh courage and renews
hope in our bosoms.
	To all who live useful lives, wko seek to
bless and elevate their fellow beings, who
make duty their companion, there comes
after years of toil and endurance an abid-
ing peace, a sweet, restful feeling of calm-
ness, which compensates in a great measure
for all the long years of labor in the great
workshop of life.
	None need regret any trial they have
passed safely, for it is so much in the stock
of experience that will endure, and stand
as a waymark in the mind, reminding us of
the victory gained over self in the conflict
that proved our integrity to truth and righ-
teousness.
AUNT EM.
E.B. Wells


