COLONIST.

	Since my arrival in Richmond I have
been asked a great many questions about
Arizona and the way we live there, which
I take much pleasure in answering, and I
thought the many readers of the EXPO-
NENT would be pleased to get a few items.
	We started Feb. 7, 1876, with others of
our fellow-colonists, to hunt a home in the
deserts of Arizona. On our journey we en-
countered very severe storms and cold
weather. When I think of that journey I
marvel greatly, and my heart fills with
gratitude to the Most High for His mercy
and kind watchcare over us, that none of
us suffered. After leaving Utah the weath-
er was warmer and our journey more
pleasant, although it was tedious. We
found a great many curiosities, petrified
wood, &c., which lessened the monotony of
the journey, We arrived at Obed the 23d
of April, '76, and found a few of our co-
laborers already there and at work. The
27th of April death visited our little colony
and took Bro. F. Hammond, a most excel-
lent young man.
	We organized ourselves into a company
and endeavored to work in the United Or-
der and eat at one table. And here let me
say, it is my experience that the long table
gives more satisfaction than the common
storehouse and draw supplies. Prest.
Young told us we would find it was the
best, and we have proven his words to be
true.
	The first summer, through inexperience,
many things occurred of an unpleasant na-
ture, and a great many began to sigh for
the comfortable homes of their fathers.
June 3,1876, Prest. Wells and party arrived,
and we received much good advice and
counsel from them, and were greatly en-
couraged and strengthened thereby. Con-
trary to the expectations of many, they ad-
vised us to follow the counsel of nur be-
loved President, Brigham Young, and live
in the family order.
	July 6, some of our party started to Utah
to get their families, and some deserted
their mission and returned home.
	July 19, our dam, which had cost $4,000,
washed out. It was a great loss to us, as
there was no possible chance to get water
to our grain, and we did not raise anything.
	Aug. 7, another large company left us,


leaving only seventeen men in Obed to
battle with the adversities of a desert land,
but union existed among them and they
prospered, and were strong in the conscious-
ness of doing their duty.
	Sept. 16, 1876, I gave birth to my first-
born—twin danghters. The youngest died
immediately.
	Our location proved unhealthy, and in
September, 1877, every member of our set-
tlement took sick with the fever and ague.
The brethren and sisters of the other settle-
ments kindly took us to their homes and
cared for us until we recovered. They also
finished harvesting the little crop that had
this season blessed our labors. We thought
best to abandon the Obed location, and as
there were so few of us we decided to join
the other settlements on the Little Colorado
River.
	June 5, 1878, was a sad day for me—the
Lord in His wisdom saw fit to take our re-
maining child to Himself, and we for a sea-
son are deprived of her dear society; but
He doeth all things well, and I desire to
bow humbly to His will.
	There were some Lamanites farmed with
us, and were so elated with their success
that they are trying again this season. The
bitter is always mixed with the sweet. and
we were forcibly reminded of this when just
as we were congratulating ourselves upon
our abundant harvest, the floods came and
destroyed several hundred bushels of our
grain, but we still have enough for bread.
	Our relations with our Lamanite brethren
are very friendly, and they seem much at-
tached to their "Mormon" brothers, and
have the utmost confidence in us. They
are an industrious people and willing to
learn. There is a great work to be done
for the redemption of that people, and we
of the Arizona settlements are doing all we
can to assist in this great work, by example
as well as by precept
	March, 5, 1879, we started on a visit to
our relatives in Cache Co., and arrived
April 3, after a pleasant trip.
	I will write again when I get home, as
you are so kind to urge and stimulate your
sisters to write I feel encouraged to try.
May God bless and prosper you in your
labors, and may the EXPONENT live long to
cheer the women of the Latter-day Saints.
