EDITOR EXPONENT:

	As I have been a subscriber to your interest-
ing paper for some time, and as I have never


seen anything from this far-famed Golden
State of California, I thought a few lines
might not be uninteresting.
	It is a lovely Sabbath, as all Sabbaths are as
far as a rich, warm sunshine and balmy air are
concerned, but there is nothing to remind one
this is a day of rest. The streets are full of
people intent upon pleasure. The bands are
discoursing lively strains of music, and moth-
ers, fathers and children, with their lunch bas-
kets, are going to some one of the many pleas-
ant places to enjoy themselves. The ballrooms
are crowded and the churches are empty. The
small streets are full of children, left to amuse
themselves as best they can. In yon alley is
a crowd of small hoodlums drinking beer,
smoking and swearing. How can they learn
better when the ones who should teach them
are engrossed with the same pleasures, but of
a more genteel character.
	What a strange feeling one finds here in this
great city. The impression at once arises,
everybody must be bad, so much crime and
dishonor. The daily papers are enough to
sicken one's soul, but the people crave just such
news and they must cater to the public taste.
There was one of the most brutal murders last
week. A man courted and married a very
gifted and accomplished young lady, and in
less than a year they separated and she sought
shelter with a family as a housekeeper. The
husband sought her and found her, and [-]e shot
her dead in the door, and had the cool effront-
ery to tell the officer that the woman was his;
he had a right to shoot her if he wanted to.
And now comes another murder worse even
than that. Some one cut a child's throat and
plunged its head into the sand to stifle its cries.
The child was a boy three years old and be-
longed to an Italian gardener. He has no
enemies, and who murdered the child and for
what purpose remains for the detectives to un-
ravel. Suicides are common, they are scarcely
mentioned.
	You who live in such a quiet vale can never
imagine half that is going on out in the world.
It is said there is a rivalry existing between
Chicago and St. Louis, which can get ahead in
crime or population, but California will carry
the palm of the world. Here we treat all men
as rogues until we prove them, and just as we
think we have proved them good, they prove
themselves rogues. Confidence has fled, and
people are groping in the dark for money and
happiness; a few find the former, and fewer
still find the latter. There is an unjust feeling
pervading all classes of society. In the palace
or in the laboring man's cot there is a want
felt, and it is confidence. It has gone and all
are seeking to find it.
	I hope you will not feel disgusted with the
picture I have drawn; perhaps if I should write
you again it would be all love and sunshine,
but I would have to go beyond the confines of
this great city, into one of the cool, quiet
country glens, then I could commune with
Nature.
	Wishing your paper every success, I remain
			Yours respectfully,
