TION, ORGANIZED IN S. L, CITY, 1869.

	Resolved, That realizing ourselves to be
wives and daughters of apostles, prophets and
elders of Israel, and, as such, that high re-
sponsibilities rest upon us, and that we shall
be held-accountable to God not only for the
privileges we inherit from our fathers, but also
for the blessings we enjoy as Latter-day Saints,
we feel to unite and co-operate with, and we
do mutually pledge ourselves that we will up-
hold and sustain each other in doing good.
	Resolved, That inasmuch as the Saints have
been commanded to gather out from Babylon,
and not partake of her sins, that they receive
not of her plagues. We feel that we should
not condescend to imitate the pride, folly and
fashions of the world: And inasmuch as the
Church of Jesus Christ is likened to a city set
on a hill, to be a be[-]con of light to all nations,
it is our duty to set examples for others, in-
stead of seeking to pattern after them.
	Resolved, That we will respect ancient and
modern apostolic instructions. St. Paul ex-
horted Timothy to teach the women to adorn
themselves in modest apparel—not with braid-
ed hair, or gold, or pearl, or costly array; but
which becometh women professing godliness,
with good works Peter also, in his First Epis-
tle, in speaking of women, says: "Whose
adorning, let it not be that outward adorning
of plaiting the hair, and of wearing gold, or of
putting on of apparel; but let it be the hidden
man of the heart, in that which is not cor-
ruptible, even the ornament of a meek and
quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God of
great price. For after this manner in old time
the holy women also, who trusted in God,
adorned themselves," &c. In a revelation
given to the Saints in 1831, the Lord said:
"Thou shalt not be proud in thy heart; let all
thy garments be plain, and their beauty the
beauty of the work of thine own hands." All

[Column 2]
of which we accept as true principle, and such
as should be folly illustrated in our practice.
	Resolved, With a firm and settled determi-
nation to honor the foregoing requirements,
and being deeply sensible of the sinful ambi-
tion and vanity in dress among the daughters
of Zion, which are calculated to foster the pride
of the world, and shut out the Spirit of God
from the heart, we mutually agree to exert our
influence, both by precept and example, to
suppress and to eventually eradicate these
evils.
	Resolved, That, admitting variety has its
charms, we know that real beauty appears to
greater advantage in a plain dress than when
bedizzened with finery, and while we disappro-
bate extravagance and waste, we would not,
like the Quakers, recommend a uniform, but
would, leave each one to choose the style best
adapted to her own taste and person. At the
same time we shall avoid and ignore obso-
lete with us, all extremes which are opposed to
good sense, or repulsive to modesty.
	Resolved, Inasmuch as cleanliness is a char-
acteristic of a Saint, and an imperative duty,
we shall discard the dragging skirts, and for
decency's sake those disgustingly short ones
extending no lower than the boot tops. We
also regard “panniers,” and whatever approxi-
mates in appearance towards the “Grecian
Bend,” a burlesque on the natural beauty and
dignity of the human female form, and will
not disgrace our persons by wearing them.
And also, as fast as it shall be expedient, we
shall adopt the wearing of home-made articles,
and exercise our united influence in rendering
them fashionable.


