	 BY HANNAH T. KING. 

	Crabbe - I have not much to say about
him. But he was esteemed by Burke, and
from his first interview with that generous
man his prosperity dates. I leave him in
good hands when I leave him with Burke,
and pass to Shelly. Had his rich, rare and
beautiful mind been anchored on "the rock
of ages" - could have been a disciple of
the Divine Founder of universal love and
charity, which he made the basis of his
teachings - then indeed would he have been
a planet in the poetical hemisphere - but
alas! he worshipped an ignus fatuus of his
own loving and beautiful mind, which re-
sembled a goodly vessel tossed on the rough
waves of a tempestuous ocean without chart
or compass, and so was wrecked - I will not
say lost - for his life was one search after
truth and love, and such shall find, though
the road they stumble over is dark and
thorny. His tragedy of "The Cenci" has
been highly applauded for the tact and re-
finement with which he treated so horrible
a subject.
	A celebrated authority has said, "When I
beheld the passive calmness of Beatrice in
the "Barberini Palace," it seemed the paint-
er had explained the ideal of his story.
But the Poet Shelly has surrounded it with
an interest surpassing the "Limner's Art,"
and the tragedy should be read with the
picture in view. He advocated a dietectic
reform from a strange conviction that absti-
nence from spirituous liquors and animal
food, would do much to renovate the human
race. Upon this idea his own habits were
based - he could not believe in the Christi-
anity of the day, and hence much of his
young life was poisoned by the cruelest per-
secution - he ever carried a pocket Bible,
about his person. He was drowned with a
friend in a squall off the Gulf of Spezzia -
and a Bible was found in his pocket. The
bodies were afterwards burned according to
Shelly's request to his friend Byron to see
that it was done, should he be the survivor.
	Leigh Hunt - Association with its thou-
sand whisperings, hang around this poet,
consequently he is a favorite. Who that has
sipped from his "Jar of Honey, from Mount
Hybla" can ever forget him? His father was
descended from a line of West India gen-
tlemen, and his mother from a Pennsyl-
vania Quaker; both his parents were in-
tellectually disposed, and his mother was
partly won by her lover's fine readings of
the English Poets, which the son truly de-
scribes as a "noble kind of courtship." His
parents were poor and his early days were
passed in family embarrasments. His
mother was a lover of books and nature, and
she encouraged her son's poetic and literary
tendency; she treasured his early rhymes,
and carried them about her person, showing
them to her friends. What an influence
this must have had on the young poet's
early life, in confirming his devotion to
truth, his love of beauty, his superiority to
the world's idols! The discerning heart of
the mother applauded the juvenile efforts of
the son, and fostered by her approving love
that germ which coldness and apathy have
so often destroyed. One word of scorn
from revered lips has a weight and a power
that has colored many an after life, and
turned into darkness the clear and beautiful
stream of the soul! Let mothers note this
and apply it! The habit of thinking for him-
self was a blessing he inherited from his par-
ents. He and his brother were the joint
proprietors of the "Examiner" and were
prosecuted for a libel on the Prince Regent.
They would not allow their friends to pay
the fine adjudged, and therefore they went
to prison. He was in poor health at the
time, but he managed to fit up his room
charmingly, arrange a garden, read and
make verses, and receive visits from his
friends. One might almost envy him when
we think of the rare spirits that brightened
his confinement and brought a glorious free-
dom to his better nature. At the close of
one of his letters to Byron after his release,
he reverts to the kind surprise he and
others gave him, and closes by saying: -

	"- - that frank surprise when Moore and you
	Came to my cage like warblers, kind and true,
	And told me with your arts of cordial lying
	How well I looked, although you thought me dying."

His ablest production is "Rimini," and
through all his writings he exhibits a liberal
and candid mind and heart. His influence
is genial and always refreshing.
	Byron. - Three thousand copies of Byron's
poems are sold annually. "My dear sir,”
said Dr. Johnson, "clear your mind of cant."
This process is essential to a right appreci-
ation of Byron. No one ever more com-
pletely "wore his heart upon his sleeve,"
and no heart was ever more thoroughly
pecked at by the daws. The same frank-
ness and freedom that marked his life, are
evident in his productions, and those who
whine about the danger in reading Byron,
I should fear to trust amid the moral expos-
ure of their surroundings. There can scarce-
ly be found a book more melancholy, and
more moral then "Moore's Life of Byron."
There we see the struggle of a gifted spirit,
between good and evil.
	There are many minute strings that form
the chords of a beautiful instrument, and
all these must be drawn only to a proper
tension, to render the whole harmonious.
Byron was one of those finely organized
beings, possessing all the material for form-
ing one of the best, and noblest of human
characters. But alas! he fell into the hands
of a weak, ignorant, superstitutious mother,
without any one to counter-balance her in-
judicious influence - who one moment
would effeminate him with her foolish fond-
ness and the next, spurn him as "a lame
brat." These small but cruel words must
have sunk deep into such a soul as he pos-
sessed, even as a child; indeed, they are
said to have produced, years after, that
powerful drama, "The Deformed Trans-
formed." And did she not, by such passion-
ate treatment, lay the foundation of the bit-
terness displayed occasionally in his after
life and writings? Yes, upon such an exquis-
itely sensitive temperament they were suffi-
cient to convert the very springs of life into
the “waters of Marah," what might he not
have been, had he fallen into the atmosphere
of an enlightened, affectionate but decided
character, one who would not have attempt-
ed to crush his volcanic nature, but have
taught him to hold in his impetuous pas-
sions with the reins of reason and religion.
With such a heart as he is allowed, by all
who knew him to have possessed in child-
hood and youth, so warm, so generous, so
expansive and so exquisitely devotional,
would he not in judicious hands, have be-
come a happy man? noble in nature as in
birth? Yet with all the material for hap-
piness he never attained it; and I believe
from improper training, early perversion,
etcetera. Had it been otherwise, England
would have hailed him as one of her no-
blest sons as he stands today one of her
noblest poets; one of her brightest patriots,
one of her principal men, and a man of
principle. But let him be judged from his
own works righteously, take his "Childe
Harold," open the book promiscuously, and
out of that let the verdict be given. Words
are vain things often in such a case. 3,000
copies sold annually, tell the tale. "Man
sees the deed, God the circumstance.
Judge not that ye be not judged."


NEITHER days nor lives can be made holy
by doing nothing in them. The best prayer
at the beginning of a day is, that we may
not lose its moments; and the best grace
before meat is, the consciousness that we
have justly earned our dinner.—Ruskin.


