WOMAN'S VOICE

	After reading and hearing so much said
and done of the noble and brave stand that
my sisters have taken since the decision
of the Supreme Court of the Uunited
States in the Reynolds case, I feel like add-
ing my humble mite to that of my sisters.
Our enemies are very assiduous in their
labors in trying to pull this principle of
ours to pieces. Dear editor, it looks to me
the more our enemies oppose plural mar-
riage the more the sisters are determined
to sustain this holy principle, both with
their faith, prayers and works. What
pusillanimity of mind our enemies do show,
especially the ladies, when they begin to
measure arms with Jehoeah, and in trying
to overthrow His purposes. Some ask what
we are going to do about the decision of
the Supreme Court of the United States.
We will wait upon the Lord and see His
salvation in this matter, as in all others.
He has been our strength and salvation in
perilous times that are past, and we will
trust in Him for the present, and also for
the future. There are many Sarahs, Rach-
els, Leahs and Hannahs in this age of the
world, who are as willing to be obedient to

[Column 2]

great and holy principles as were the ancient
women of God.
	It is said that plural marriage is degrad-
ing. We think and know that it is elevat-
ing in its nature. We believe in the resto-
ration of all things, Patriarchal Marriage
included. Why not let all women be hon-
orable wives and mothers of families? Sis-
ters, let us try and do away with our sefish-
ness, and not debar women from filling the
measure of their creation. We will try
and keep God's commandments and raise
up unto Him a God-fearing, noble and vir-
tuous generation of sons and daughters,
who will build up a kingdom of righteous-
ness and make the earth fit for the coming
of the Savior.
	We are determined to stand by the right,
notwithstanding all our enemies can do or
say; we need not their sympathy, we care
not for their censure. All we want is our
Constitutional rights, that our fathers fought
and bled for, and the privilege of worship-
ping God according to the dictates of our
own consciences. Oh, what a shame that
we as American citizens cannot have our
rights and privileges! But never mind, we
can afford to wait the Lord's time, Who
doeth all things well for those who love and
fear Him.
	A few more words by way of caution to
some of my sisters. Some of our would-be
friends are very diligent in asking ques-
tions of our sisters about their domestic
concerns—how many wives their husbands
have, how many children each wife has,
and what the husband has to keep them on.
One thing is certain, the wives our husbands
have are their own, by their own free will
and choice, and as for our children, we are
not going to turn them adrift on the world.
No, emphatically no! as long as they have
fathers and mothers that are true to the
Gospel, they will own them. We know
that our children are the Lord's heritage.
It is a part of women's sphere to raise up
children. Where can she find a nobler title
than Mother, or a more sacred charge than
souls given into her hands to care for? And
let us above all keep our holy vows and
covenants, and not cast cur precious pearls
before swine. Some of our would-be lady
friends are on the alert, and the Evil One is
ever ready to suggest; let us be on the
alert too, and show by our works and con-
versation that the wisdom of the Lord is
far before the cunning of the Evil One.
The Lord expects wisdom of his children.
	I. P. W.
Mill Creek, May 23, 1879.


[Column 1]
