BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	The cultivation of manners is almost the
last thing considered by many; they regard
no fixed laws, but act according to their
own idea, which quite frequently gives un-
necessary offence to others.
	The manners of a people are an index by
which they are partly judged, and although
it is possible to be a consummate villain and
have charming manners, yet the terms are
not synonymous in the least; but there are
some persons who are almost ready to be-
lieve so, and seem to take pride in rudeness
and rough ways, attributing it to sincerity
and genuineness of soul.
	But in this age of enlightenment and
advantages we should be able to cast aside
such primitive ideas, that can only be the
outgrowth of ignorance, the traditionary
opinion of those who have had no time or
opportunity to cultivate their minds or
manners. The rising generation of this
people should improve in all that will add
to the refinements of social life—and they
have no reasonable excuse for not doing so.

	To many we are aware that the word
etiquette is a bug-bear, because it implies
restraint they think, and they are not will-
ing to submit to any restraint in word, or
action. Every person of ordinary intelli-
gence should desire to observe such rules
as regards manner as would insure the re-
spect and good feeling of those with whom
they come in contact through life, and ren-
der them generally pleasing. There are
only a few who possess sufficient beauty, or
charms of any sort, to make them agree-
ble as companions without cultivation of
manner, but if one's manners are gentle,
respectful, and betray culture, it is in itself
a recommendation in any society; and this
it is always posssble to acquire, and it
should be exacted from children. We all
know how very disagreeble it is to be in
the company of ill-bred and ill-mannered
children. Surely it is worth a little effort
on our part to make etiquette a study, that
we may adapt ourselves to the existing
general rules of society, that the social in-
tercourse of life may be as pleasant and
harmonious as possible. In order to do
this the lessons must begin at home, and
become a part of ourselves, among those
with whom we are most intimately asso-
ciated. There are many people who never
seem to think it necessary to be polite in
their own home, to those who are the near-
est and dearest to them; but especially
should the minds of the young be impressed
with the idea that politeness and good
manners should commence at home, instead
of school-life, dancing, or their entrance
into society.

	There are many books written upon the
subject of etiquette, from which excellent
ideas may be gleaned, but from a recent
work by Mrs. H. O. Ward, entitled "Sensi-
ble Etiquette," we intend making a few
extracts, that the readers of the EXPONENT
everywhere who have not the opportunity
of reading the book, may become familiar
with some of the general rules and observ-
ances of society at the present time.

	Mrs. Ward says: "There is a class of
people who consider it a mark of superiority
to hold themselves in defiance to all rules
of etiquette, who affect to despise it and
take pleasure in outraging it; but it must
be admitted, however well educated in the
matter of books these people may be, how-
ever intelligent in other directions, yet
they are not born among those having fine

[Column 2]
manners, and accustomed to the require-
ments of society, were not reared in high
breeding, and are really ignorant of what
they despise. It would seem to be only in
accordance with the first principles of com-
mon sense that people should acquaint
themselves with the requirements of eti-
quette, and examine their causes, before
they sweep aside what many of the great
intellects of the world have thought it
worth while to approve and accept."
	"There is another class who, not having
been instructed in traditionary, social ob-
servances, laugh at rules they are not fa-
miliar with,—rules, too, which the instincts
of kind hearts ought to divine almost, but
which, out of mere thoughtlessness, are too
often disregardod, even by the kind-
hearted."
	Another writer says, "Obedience to these
social laws is what obedience to law is in
political life, and the obligations which in-
dividuals feel in their observance are said
to be binding in proportion to the fineness
of their sense of honor and the keenness of
their self-respect. Etiquette," says the
same writer, "is the sovereign ruler of so-
cial pleasure; its kingdom comprises not
only manners, but the application of man-
ners to events. The observance of its laws
avoids confusion and maintains decorum,
insuring to each individual due attention
and respect. Its whole intention is to
maintain the dignity of the individual and
the comfort of the community. Whatever
enjoyment of our daily existence we may
have, as far as others are concerned, is pos-
sible only through our obedience to the
laws of that etiquette which governs the
whole machinery, and keeps every cog and
wheel in place and at its own work, which
prevents jostling and carries all things along
to their consummation."
	A journalist says, "Neither the little
burgh nor the great city should know any
difference in the conduct of the individ-
uals comprising its population. Allowing
for the necessary variations in the tenor of
daily life in the two places, there should be
complete union regarding the proprieties;
one code of behavior should cover all, and
a person going from one place to the other
should be utterly undistinguishable by his
conduct from those around him. These
paragraphs contain many truths which we
should all do well to consider, and we may
easily give more attention to this subject
than we have been wont to do, at any rate
the most of us, and it will be to our advan-
tage as a people and to that of our chil-
dren."
	To do a good action is noble in itself, but
to do it in a graceful and pleasing manner
adds very much to it, for we have noticed
quite frequently that some good deeds are
done in such a blundering manner that they
produce very disagreeable feelings with
the recipient of the favor.
	"I have no time to devote to my own
cultivation of mind, or manners," "I have
no time to be polite," say some, when in
reality their time is much of it wasted in
frivolity, in gossip and in the reading of
trash. It is time all these things were cast
aside, and we set about preparing ourselves
and our children for the time when Zion
shall be the wonder of the world, and "our
children be as polished stones," which they
never will be without cultivation, and that
culture must begin in their homes and
emanate from their mothers.
	Everything in ourselves and in our lives
has its effect, and if we were more careful
in our conduct towards our fellow-beings,
more gentle, kind, tender and respectful
it would have a good effect upon all who

[Column 3]
come in contact with us. Little more can
be said on this subject than to point out the
necessity and plead with the yonng who
are entering upon the arena of life to adopt
a course which will hereafter reflect credit
upon them and be a safe one to follow.
	It is a subject, perhaps, less dwelt upon
than any other, each individual leaving it
to his or her neighbor to attend to, or to
the teachers of schools, but it will bear
talking about, thinking about and writing
about, and it will be well to adopt in our
lives such a code of manners as will admit
us to the best society here upon earth, and
prepare us to dwell in the presence of those
who have acquired all knowledge.
	In our next chapter on this subject we
hope to make something more than intro-
ductory remarks. It is an old saying that
the manners make the man, but certainly
the manners of a lady are an important
consideration. How much more enjoyment
might we all have in life, if every one who
moved in society watched constantly
against evil and studied continually im-
provement and culture.


[For the EXPONENT.

