NOTES AND NEWS.

	Rev. Olyimpia Brown, pastor of the Univ-
ersalist Church at Racine, Wisconsin, has
recieved a well deserved expression of confi-
dence. at a recent meeting of the whole
congregation a unanimous vote was passed
expressing gratitude for the manner in
which she has performed her duties and ac-
knowledging that their present prosperity is
largely due to her unselfish devotion to the
cause of truth, her assiduous labors as pastor
and her preminent ability as a preacher."
Mrs. Brown took charge of this society about
a year ago, when its affairs were at a low ebb.

	WOMAN'S Rights is being discussed at
College-Commencements. Young graduates
make it the subject of essays, and men of
learning and oratory make it the subject of
addresses on public occasions. Surely it is
one of THE important questions of the day.
From the "Woman's Journal" we copy the
following extract from a speeeh delivered
by Mr. Joseph Sheldon of New Haven:

	"The position of women as the earners of
wages must be more just when they can by
the ballot even indirectly express their in-
dignant opinion on the conduct of those
who treat them unjustly—who drive hard
bargains against their necessities; who tol-
erate unequal laws against them; who rob
their homes of money and souls, in spite of
prayers, with the allurements of drink and
the seductions of vice; who make tyrants
and imbeciles of those who should be their
strong stay and support, their affection and
their pride—and all this while the state rots
for the need of the very virtue and con-
science and intelligence it now throws
away; and for need of the authoritative
statement and condemnation by the ballots
of women of a flood of ignorance and ruin
in all their miserable and immeasurable de-
tails.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	When Lucy Stone with eager and de-
vouring eyes first looked out upon her
young life, and with unutterable dismay
found herself stifled by belittling and con-
temptuous surroundings, that shut up every
woman by positive law in a legal category
with idiots, lunatics and criminals; that
made even marriage on its legal side equiv-
alent for her to a conviction of felony, she
too was asked by society, the State and the
Church: What are you going to do about
it? Little enough, God knows, has yet
been done, but from that hour into every
woman's life has begun to dawn the broad,
cheery morning of an absolute equality
with man before the law—a morning that
shall yet be tuneful with bird notes and
balmy with the breath of flowers and speak-
ing with electric fulness of life. Then be-
gan a more worthy recognition and respect
for her individuality, her substance of
character and her power, the opening to
her with plaudits and thanksgiving of every
avenue of employment for her ceaseless
activities, her immortal aspirations, her
inextinguishable hopes, her tireless con-
scientious charities. Conversation and the
arts of life, society and literature, the aims
and the politics of governments shall yet
become larger and purer and nobler in her
inspiring presence. For her it shall mean
new vigor, a higher and brighter attract-
iveness:

The stars of midnight shall be dear
To her, she shall lean an ear
In many a secret place
Where violets dance their wayward round,
And Beauty born of murmuring sound
Shall pass into her face."


