STRAY NOTES,
One cannot always hit a happy thought just
at a particular moment. No, one cannot al-
ways have a clear head to write and reason on
a definite subject. Cobwebs will make their
appearance, however careful, neat and precise
housekeepers may be,for they cannot constantly
have a broom in their hands. Women are not
fairies, although they ought to be to keep cob-
webs out of their brain. Mother Goose tells of
a little old woman who carried a broom to
sweep the cobwebs out of the sky, but unfor-
tuuately we women have not the power to re-
move those much nearer, which dim the vision
and make things look askew, or perhaps things
are a little out of place.
 Granted that women are not as wise as they
ought to be, what then? Shall they sit down
at home and wait for their husbands to come
and teach them? If they do, many of them
would go ignorant to their graves of what was
going on in the great, busy world around them.
It seems to us it is time to wake up and brush
away the cobwebs that are far more injurious
than those that hang around the kitchen and
garret. Not but that we believe in cleanliness,
but every housekeeper has a general renovat-
ing time twice a year at least, yet many a poor
woman goes on from year to year and pays very
little attention to the cobwebs that muddle and
confuse her brain. And if perchance some
half-defined thought finds expression as to the
state of things outside her own domestic circle,
and she questions why this or that is so, she is
sure to be told by some good friend,that women
have nothing to do with these things, they’ll
right themselves after a while, or men who
understand law, politics and government will
attend to all wrongs, and if they cannot it’s no
use for women to try.
Certainly not, unless they acquaint them-
selves with the subject; but who gets the blame
when society is outraged by some overt act?
Women in almost every instance. Then should
they not understand why? Is it not necessary
that woman should find some method of im-
provement, that she may keep side by side
with her husband? And will any man love
his wife less because she is well informed?
Don’t be afraid of it. Men came practically in
contact with the general questions of the day
and grow familiar with the subject; but wo-
men, shut up in the home-circle with limited
opportunities, allow their faculties to lie dor-
mant, or only to emit a sparkle now and then,
at which they themselves are almost frightened,
it seems so unusual to have a thought beyond
what they had been taught was woman’s
sphere.
It has come to pass within the last forty
years that a few women, comparatively, have
marked cut a broader field in which to labor,
taking hold of the work in earnest and with
a heroism and faith corresponding to the no-
bility of the cause they espoused; and slowly
but surely one obstacle after another has been
removed, until woman stands to day on a
higher platform than ever before in the world's
history, with a better knowledge of herself,
the object of her creation and her future des-
tiny.
Woman suffragists in the world date the be-
ginning of the new era for them to the first
Convention ever held, now thirty-one years
ago in May, 1838, when the dignified and amia-
ble Lucretia Mott, the sweet Quaker lady, ex-
pressed in a very modest manner her views
upon the subject, and Mrs. Elizabeth Cady
Stanton (now widely celebrated for her orato-
ry) made her debut upon the public platform
in a few impressive words. The women of the
Latter-day Saints date the period of a new
movement for the higher elevation of woman
still farther back. A few of the sisters being
impressed that woman's position was not fully
comprehended, made known their feelings to
the Prophet Joseph Smith, who responded to
their wishes and desires by telling them that
whenever the Church of Jesus Christ was fully
organized upon the earth there would be the
organization of societies of women. Accord-
ingly, a few of the sisters met and an associa-
tion was formed, called the Relief Society.
Upon this Society Joseph Smith pronounced
great and mighty blessings, many of which
have been already fulfilled. he told the sis-
ters they should have great faith to administer
to the sick, and to do good in many ways. The
ladies themselves did not realize the signifi-
cance and importance of the movement at that
time, but it gradually developed itself. The
advancement of women through the spiritual
and practical education obtained through this
channel has indeed been wonderfu1; socially
and politically, these Societies have been a
blessing to the sisters.
It would seem perhaps ridiculous to some
people to say that had it not been for this kind
of practical helpfulness of the women of this
Territory, they never would have had the bal-
lot, yet so we believe; certainly they would
not have been so well qualified to step forward
and exercise the privilege it gives them.
Wilh all the opportunities now afforded, and
the advantages now offered to woman for fuller
development, a wider range of action as well as
thought, it is strange indeed that so many care
little for it; but prefer to go on in the same old
treadmill, and although they are standing on
the very threshold of great events, progression
making rapid strides around them, prefer to
leave all questions of importance to men. If
one talks to them on the subject, “Oh, I’ve no
time; its very much against my nature; I
don’t want the ballot, I can’t bear to hear wo-
men speak in public,” and a thousand other
very silly things. But there is one subject that
belongs to every woman, and on which women
ought to be prepared to speak and act, and that
is education; aud they need the ballot for this,
if they would make woman’s place as a teacher
and educator what it should be in every re-
spect.
Would the women of Massachusetts and
New Hampshire ever have obtained the right
now accorded them if they had not exerted
themselves, and maintained their ground by
the expression of positive opinions and facts
in public places? If they had not had among
them such heroic and undaunted public speak-
ers as Lucy Stone, Julia Ward Howe and others
whom we have not space to name.
But there are not enough yet of this class of
women, who are fearless of ridicule, and ready
to take up the heavy burdens of others that
they may lead them to a higher range of
thought, by arousing their dormant energies
and showing them their help is needed not
only in the home circle, but in all the depart-
ments of life. Yes, all.
The need of women lecturers and speakers is
not only necessary in the world, but they are
needed here. How many women have had
their lives brightened, their perceptions quick-
ened, their dormant faculties aroused, by com-
ing out and joining the different organizations
for the mutual co operation and elevation of
the sisters that exist among this people. Thou-
sands at least. And many more might have
their hearts lighter and their lives brighter, if
they would but join the ranks of those who are
faithfully laboring to lift up woman to her true
position, and make her indeed a helpmeet to 
wards establishing peace and righteousness up-
on the earth.
 The names of many noble women here in
Zion will be held in honor forever for their un-
tiring labors to lift up, comfort and educate
their sisters in the high and holy calling wo-
men should fill in their mission on the earth.
Among those who have been earnest aud dili-
gent in home-missionary labor among the wo-
men and children of the Latter-day Saints we
are proud to record Elizabeth Ann Whitney,
Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. Young, Mary Isabella
Horne, Margaret T. Smoot, Sarah M. Kimball,
Phebe Woodruff, Elizabeth Howard, Bathshe.
ba W. Smith and there are many others whose
names are illustrious. E. B. Wells


