FROM THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL.

	EDTORS JOURNAL:—Tabitha Bowers wrote
to me that she saw an article signed with
my name in your paper copied from the "In-
ter-ocean," and I thought if you were kind
enough to do that may be you could give me
some light in these matters, and I am sadly
troubled. My letter, which was published
in the "Inter-ocean," somehow fell into the
hands of Elder Jenkins, and he came to me
very much disturbed in mind. It seemed
so strange, he said, that after listening to his
preaching so many years, I should now be
led astray by these infidel reformers. In
vain I assured him that I was still sound in
the faith, and was only seeking to understand
the real meaning of St. Paul's teachings
and their application to the present time. He
replied that the very fact of my having writ-
ten to a secnlar newspaper for information,
was evidence sufficient of my lukewarmness.

[Column 2]
Why Elder Jenkins, what could I do," I cried
in my dismay, "I had no husband to ask?"
He patted me on the head, (for he had taken
his seat very near me, as is the ministerial
cnstom,) and looking smilingly right into
my eyes said, "Why, child, could not you
ask your pastor?" I do not suppose anybody
in Timberville will see your paper, leastwise
I hope Elder Jinkens won't, but I must con-
fess I felt real uncomfortable. In the first
place I am by no means a child, being about
midway between childhood's first and sec-
ond stage. Again, I do not think it is nice
for men, even if they are ministers, to pat
women on their heads and call it a fatherly
interest. I had a good father, but when I
became a woman he treated me as such,
and I can not make such manners seem nat-
ural. But I shoved my chair a little farther
off and put on as brave a face as I could,
and asked him if he would tell me just how
he understood St Paul. He said that women
was the "weaker vessel" and that it was
a shame for her to "speak in church," or to
"pray with uncovered head," that they
should not wear "braided hair, or gold, or
pearls, or costly array." Now I do not know
what the fashions are in Boston, but in Tim-
berville the women's bonnets hang on their
back hair, and their heads are all uncovered
and they wear great heavy gold chains out-
side of all their wraps, and they go to church
with their hair frizzed and braided in a
most marvelous manner, and never a minis-
ter has opened his mouth to condemn such
unseemly apparel. Latterly; however, they
wear what they call "bangs," and the hair
comes clear down to their eyes, and may be
St. Paul is responsible for the style. I must
say that I have noticed with pain that at
our church sociables Elder Jenkins pays a
great deal more attention to these gaily
dressed ladies than he does to the soberly
attired women of his flock, and sometimes
when I have been thinking it over I have
been almost afraid St. Paul might have done
the same.
	Then the Elder went on to say that
according to Paul "Adam was not decived;
but the woman being deceived was in the
transgression." I asked him if that meant
that Eve really believing that the eating of
the apple would make her wise was a
greater sinner than Adam, who ate his with
his eyes open just becouse Eve offered it to
him? He said that all the misery in the
world was the result of Eve's insane desire
for wisdom; that if all women were wise it
wonld subvert the entire order of creation,
for their husbands could no longer rule over
them; as to Adam, he went on to say his sin
was a manly one, and that the sins men
committed in consequence of the attractions
of women were never visited so heavily up-
on the men as upon the women, by nature
or society; woman invariably paid the pen-
alty. It might appear hard, but he believed
it was according to the established order of
things. Then I asked him what St. Paul
meant when he said, "let not a widow be
taken into the number under threescore
years old, having been the wife of one man,
well reported of for good works; if she have
brought up children, if she have washed
the saints' feet, if she have relieved the af-
flicted, if she have diligently followed every
good work. But the younger widows re-
fuse." He looked at his watch and said his
call was already too long, that he had agreed
to meet a committee of ladies that afternoon
who were trying to devise means to raise
the minister's salary and refurnish the par-
sonage; there was to be a donation party;
and then they already had a sewing society
and a mite society, which met every week;
but they thought, perhaps, something might


be done in the way of noonday lunches and
strawberry festivals in the evening. In
parting he again laid his hand upon my
head (this time solemnly as if he were to
pronounce the benediction) and said, “my
dear child, do not distress yourself with
such abstruse questions; but live quietly in
the sphere where you rightfully belong,
remembering always that “Great is the
mystery of godliness.” Now Mr. or Mrs.
Editor, whichever you may be, I belong to
that committee, and am expected to meet
with them to try to raise this good
man’s salary. I do not outstep my sphere
when I go around with a subscription paper
for his benefit. I am considered modest
when I force tickets for church festivals on
unwilling buyers; in short, I can do a great
many things which are exceedingly revolt-
ing to my own sense of propriety, and be told
that I am only "bearing my cross,” but
when I dare think for myself upon any sub-
ject, no matter how quiet, I am, I.‘get out
of my sphere directly. DORCAS ALLEN.
Timberville, May 23, 1876-


