Curtain Call Maryhale Woolsey DIXIE closed her make-up box and stood up for a final look at herself in the long mirror. Sighing, she walked slowly towards the door. She didn't want to linger in the dressing room, painfully conscious of the contrast between the other girls' bright and pretty costumes and her own ultrasevere, dark, tailored suit.
Janice Foy, carefully pinning blond curls, looked up as Dixie passed her. "All ready, already?"
"I'll do. I'm supposed to look a mess, you know." Dixie answered ironically.
Janice laughed. "But you don't. It'd take more than a tight hairdo and thick glasses and mannish clothes, to make a mess of anyone as good-looking as you. You know that!"
Peggy Morrow, eyebrow pencil poised, turned round to say in a careful, low tone, "So do other people. Including Mavis Finley."
"Thanks, chums. You're such comforts." Dixie smiled. She paused to zip up the back of Peggy's silver-sequined frock, then went on out of the room and wandered upstairs.
A lot it helps, she thought, to be pretty! Clyde never sees anyone but Mavis . . . not that she ever gives him an opportunity. I'll be glad when tonight is over! I'm glad we're only giving two performances! She'd had such dreams, joining the "Lakeville Thespians" . . . . Mavis was in on it. When it came of convincing Mother and Daddy that she'd be ready for dramatics college next fall, to head for a real career. And . . . romantic dreams, concerning Clyde Warren, the junior college's handsome, young, new athletic coach .
Wonderful, tall dreams . . . now fallen as flat as pancakes from yesterday's batter. Because of Mavis Finley!
Well, she might have guessed what Mavis was thinking of when she organized the "Thespians." Everything Mavis ever did was first of all for Mavis. From a diamond-set baby locket on her first birthday to fur coats and airplane trips in her twenties, Mavis had always had everything of the best, and had taken it for granted she always would. She queened it over Lakeville's younger set consistently, snatched the attentions of every attractive young man in town and somehow held them just as long as it pleased her. That had been going on for years.
Not that there was anything wrong cheap or questionable in her behavior. There wasn't. Mavis was charming and talented, an outstanding young woman. The trouble was, simply, that other girls got tired of seeing Mavis lap up all the cream all the time.
DIXIE had never fully understood what a menace Mavis could be to other girls' happiness, until after Clyde Warren came to Lakeville. That was when. The trouble grow up all at once and became a
Page 661 662 woman, head-over-heels in love! And she a mere freshman at the college what chance had she? "The Thespians" had seemed her opportunity. Clyde Warren was joining.

And as Dixie had, all through school, played important parts in plays and on programs and was said to have lots of talent, she thought joyfully that now she'd have a chance to stand out from the crowd, be noticed by the object of her daydreams. She might have guessed that Mavis would have her own ideas as to that! Truth dawned on Dixie after the cast for "Island Idyll" was announced. It was the "Thespians'" first production; Mavis had written the play, she was taking the leading feminine role—Eve Hudson—and Clyde was to play the hero, Adam Rowe. Eve and Adam! Disgusting, Dixie thought. If it had been anyone but Mavis, the town would have buzzed. But Mavis, being above reproach, could get away with—even this! No one, not even Dixie's closest friends, knew how Dixie felt about Clyde. It was as if he occupied a secret shrine down in her heart, too sacred for sharing even a knowledge of its existence. Maybe it would have to be that way forever.... Low in spirit, Dixie wandered among the backstage maze of scenery and props, past the wings, down to the end of the curtain. Pulling its edge back a little, she watched the auditorium filling; people drifting in, in pairs, in parties; trickling down the aisles. She recognized the Finleys, a jovial family group. Her father and mother, quiet but eager. She noticed Steven Taylor, editor publisher of the town newspaper. Coming in with a distinguished-looking stranger. "Look good?" asked a deep, young voice so close behind Dixie that she jumped. "Oh, I'm sorry—I didn't mean to scare you, Dixie," said Roy Taylor. Roy was Steven's nephew. Dixie felt a little annoyed. How long had Roy been standing behind her? "Take a look," she told him, stepping aside. "It's better even than last night. Lots of folks coming for a second sight." "Why shouldn't they?" he grinned. "We're good, aren't we?" "The best 'Thespians' Lakeville ever had!" Dixie laughed. Admiring him in his formal black-and-white—he was one of Eve's dinner guests in act one—she thought he looked surprisingly mature and attractive. He'll be a handsome man.... Turning suddenly, he smiled at her approval. "Yep, we're well worth seeing twice. Especially," he added quietly, "Eve Hudson's secretary. You know, Dixie, you... Well, you're super!" "Thank you, Roy," Dixie said graciously. She let him take her hand for a shy, gentle squeeze. "Super—in lots of ways!" he murmured. She retorted, "You kid nicely, d'you know it?" And more casually, "It must be almost curtain time." She took another quick peek at the audience. "Did you see your uncle? He's down front, with someone I never saw before." He gave her a queer look. "Dixie, how about a soda or something, and a round or so at Roxy's after the show?" Dixie hesitated. She'd refused him so many times. Since Clyde CURTAIN CALL came into her heart, fellow-freshmen like Roy had seemed mere juveniles.... But Clyde wasn't giving her any tumble; maybe she might as well make Roy happy. "Why, yes, I'd like it," she replied. Funny, the way his face lighted. He had such nice eyes, smoky-gray with bluish sparkles when he smiled. Last time he'd asked for a date and she'd refused, the smile had been so wistful that her conscience had hurt. He deserved a "yes"... Especially, being so nice to her in this get-up! She couldn't resist saying, lightly, "You're brave, Roy. What if I'd forget to quit being Sally Johnson before we step out?" "I'd risk it. You're still the best-looking girl in the play, Dixie. And the best actress. And—I think somebody's going to have a surprise, tonight." BEFORE she could ask him what he meant, there was a stir of activity in the wings, and they hurried away to prepare their entrances. Passing lower left, Dixie saw Mavis in powder-pink lace and pearls, waiting with Clyde for their cues. They were smiling deeply into each other's eyes, and Mavis's were narrowed provocatively. Dixie's heart sank lower. Sally Johnson was supposed to care nothing about clothes; to despise men, to take no interest in social affairs except as she must keep track of Eve's dates. Her many lines were important to the building-up of Eve, but never once allowed Sally to sparkle for Dixie. Once the curtain went up, of course, Dixie's resentment at being so unfavorably cast was forgotten. There wasn't time to think, only to act, she reflected humorously. She moved from cue to cue, remembering to handle her notebooks and pencils convincingly, to make the audience feel she really was the efficient and worshipful—but un-glamorous—secretary, seeing to it that Eve, at least, was appreciated, especially by Adam Rowe. Watching him, Dixie wasn't sure that Clyde had much histrionic ability. Nevertheless, he was wonderful! Island dancers in gorgeous cellophane-grass skirts, silver and gold, entertained Eve's guests; softly chanted, sad island songs accompanied the falling-in-love of Eve and Adam. Island black magic was in the villain's schemings. Island scenery, including an incredibly blue ocean backdrop, provided the setting in which the plot unfolded. But Eve's wardrobe was no island product. It was strictly fashion's latest, right out of Vogue and off the Hollywood silver screen. Lakeville had never seen Mavis more alluring. Lakeville sat on the edges of its collective seats, adoring her. Dixie, underneath her efficient manner and crisp, clear lines, sizzled. The whole thing was so obvious. Why, oh, why didn't Clyde get wise? Why did he, seemingly so smart and adult, fall for Mavis Finley's line of charm like any common fish rising to a baited hook? Scene by scene the drama progressed, the plot quickened, the romance moved along. Mavis quick changed from dinner gown to beach togs, to glamorous lounging robe, to a stunning moss-green afternoon suit. She was exquisite in it, when at the last, all obstacles overcome, she stood in Adam's arms, her shiny 
ing golden head tilted back, her lips raised for his kiss. Offstage, Dixie turned her face away, her heart aching anew.
The curtain came down amid thunderous applause. Twice it rose again while the triumphant lovers—now frankly Mavis and Clyde again—bowed and smiled hand-in-hand and the orchestra played "Song of the Islands"; and ushers brought armloads of flowers up the aisle. Then the entire cast grouped themselves downstage for final bows, applause almost bursting the walls.
Down, up, down, up, the curtain swung—and halted in mid-descent. "Thespians" looked puzzledly at each other, as an usher came running up to the stage with a single orchid dripping silver ribbon. He stopped, looking straight at Dixie.... and read from a card: "To Sally Johnson, the Lakeville Herald's selection as 'Island Hell's' best supporting player. Compliments of Steven Taylor, Editor, and Grant Weber, guest critic."
DIXIE had to step out amid a new thunder of applause, to receive her trophy. Her knees were wobbly from surprise and confusion.
"Didn't I tell you? I was sure it would be you!" she heard Roy Taylor whispering. The curtain was down at last; the players crowded around Dixie exclaiming congratulations.
Then the babble subsided with a startling suddenness.

All eyes turned to four persons in the middle of the stage: Mavis, Clyde, Steven Taylor, and the stranger Dixie had noticed earlier.
". . . Nice production, Miss Finley. Your play is cleverly written, too. . . . Oh, and where is your little Sally Johnson? I must meet her. She did a very unusual bit, there . . ."
Enthusiastic hands were thrust into Dixie towards him, voices, eager but subdued, urged her on: "Here she is. It's you he wants, Dixie!"
Dixie found herself among the stellar group in a puzzling unrehearsed epilogue. She still didn't understand what was happening; but she heard Steven Taylor saying, ". . . Dixie, I'm proud to introduce you to my old friend, Grant Weber."
Now it clicked. Grant Weber! Why, of course . . . the New York drama critic! She'd known, vaguely proud, that he was an old friend of Mr. Taylor's. . . . And he'd asked for her—Dixie Allen!
Dumbly she put out her hand to his friendly clasp.
"You were great, Miss Allen. All the way through. It isn't often I see so young an actress make an outstanding role of one so insignificant."
"Why—thank you," Dixie stammered. She saw Mavis Finley's smile grow icy, saw little glints of anger in the author-leading lady's eyes.
"I'm writing Steven a special review for The Herald," Mr. Weber continued, "and there'll be a good mention for you. You aren't, by any chance, thinking of a stage career?"
"Well, I have thought—" Dixie wanted, suddenly, to run away, to hide. She was furious with herself. Stuttering like a child! . . . Well, that was exactly what she felt like—a child!
"Good, good!" said the great CURTAIN CALL Weber. "Look me up when you come to New York. I might be able to help you with some contacts." 
"Oh, thank you—again—" Dixie exclaimed. Mrs. Weber smiled, turned again to Mavis. "If I might offer a suggestion to the playwright, why not build up Sally's part? Show a little more revealingly, her hopeless love for Adam; her loyalty to Eve in spite of her own great longing. As it is, it's a bit too subtle for the average playgoer, I'm afraid. Remedy this—and you can, Miss Finley, you write very cleverly—and I'll be happy to recommend your play to an agent I know..." 
Spotlighted once more, Mavis unfroze immediately. "You're wonderfully kind, Mr. Weber. I—I was thinking something along the same lines you suggest, and you—your comments are very helpful and encouraging. I do appreciate—everything you've said, and—Dixie—well, we all agree with you about her," Mavis concluded archly.
Somehow, after a time, Dixie was back in the dressing room. Excited chatter bubbled around her. "You really were marvelous, Dixie. But it took that brilliant Mr. Weber to make us see just how good—"
Janice was saying, and Peggy interrupted with "It just thrilled me, to see Mavis Finley play second fiddle for once! Another orchid to you, Miss Steal-the-Show!" 
"But I didn't, really. I didn't mean to—" She stopped, aghast. She'd almost given herself away. Because that was the truth: she hadn't meant to. She'd had not t 665 the slightest notion that poor Sally had a hopeless passion for Adam Rowe. It had been Dixie Allen's secret love for Clyde Warren, betrayed through Sally! A fine actress she was! She'd better accomplish some growing-up, and learn to keep her personal emotions under her make-up! Thank goodness, since no one knew the truth, everyone would accept Grant Weber's interpretation. Even—Roy. Roy was smart—and she could thank her lucky stars he wasn't smarter still. Roy had thought she was wonderful all the time—bless him! And he was waiting for her, right now...
"Dixie! Dixie Allen! Come back from that wool-gathering!" Janice's raised voice commanded laughingly. "We're asking a question, you high-hat!"
"What? What? Oh, I'm sorry—" 
"Never mind her," Peggy said. "We were just wondering, Dixie. Are you really going to New York?" 
"Oh, I... Don't know. Someday, maybe. But I like being here in Lakeville. And I'm not eighteen. Yet; I've lots of time, to think about—Broadway." 
"Gee!" said Peggy. "You're so sensible.... I'm afraid, if I were in your place, I'd just up and go."
"Well... Maybe... But there are—things to consider, Peggy. Excuse me if I seem in a hurry, girls, but I've got a date." 
"Oh, a date!" Laughing voices repeated the word, chanted it. "A date, girls. Maybe that explains it!"
Laughing back over her shoulder, Dixie hurried away. She felt young and happy and gay; not a care