	EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ON Saturday September 19th the conference of
the Primary Association of this Stake of Zion
will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, com-
mencing at 10 a. m. At 2 p. m. the conference of
Y. L. M. I. A. will be held at the same place.
Written reports for each of these meetings are
expected from each Association of the Stake.
	The Relief Society conference of this Stake
will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms
on Friday, September 18th commencing at 10 a.
m. and at 2 p. m. It will be the time for written
reports and no branch of the Relief Society in
this Stake should fail to send in the report on
time. It is very desirable also that there should
be a good attendance of the members and that

[Column 2]
there shonld be representatives from each branch 
to receive whatever instruction or counsel may be
given.
	ON the 8th of August a small party of ladies
gathered at the residence of Dr. R. B. Pratt to
celebrate the aniversary of that lady’s birth. It
was wholly unexpected and the Dr. was out of
town. She arrived home, however, about 8 o’clock
and found her parlor well filled, and hearty con-
gratulations were first in order, then followed a
delicious repast of sandwiches, cakes; fruits and
ice-cream. Drs. E. S. Barney and E. R. Shipp
doing the honors of the table. The party then
returned to the parlor where speeches were made
congratulatory and friendly by sisters Phebe
Woodruff, H. T. King, M. N. Hyde, S. M. Kim-
ball, E. S. Taylor, E. Bunnell, Dr. E. S. Barney,
Mary Burnham E. B. Wells, E. R. Shipp, M. D.
Jane White. M. C. Shipp, M. D. and one or two
others. Sister M. I Horne closed the remarks.
During the evening Dr. Pratt expressed herself
grateful for the honor bestowed upon her in the
assembling of the sisters and in the many en-
couraging remarks addressed to her, and hoped to
be ever worthy of such friendship and friends.
	IN this issue of the EXPONENT will be seen the
announcement that Dr. R. B. Pratt wlil commence
another class in midwifery September 21st. Dr.
Pratt has been giving this kind of instruction for
several years and her students are now pursuing
their vocation in various places in the territory.
She has had excellent success in this direction,
and scarcely needs a word of recommendation
though she is deserving of praise, for her energy
and perseverance in following her profession,
never tiring of her work, always cheerful and
self-possessed. Such women are a blessing to the
community and Salt Lake City can boast quite a
number of'these lady physicians. Dr. Pratt ad-
vertises she will instruct her class in the galvanic
battery which is becoming quite a power in the
sick room. She will also assist them in the pur-
chase of batteries for their own use in practice
whereby they can obtain them cheaper than they
could otherwise. This will be quite an advan-
tage to those who desire to combine this knowl-
edge with the study of obstetrics.
	WE wish to call the attention of our readers to
the advertisement of Dr. Maggie C. Shipp in this
issue of the paper. Circumstances hindered the
lady from commencing her class in obstetrics as
previously announced. The Doctor graduated
from the Women’s Medical College in Phila-
delphia in the spring of 1882 and since that time
has devoted herself to practice in her profession
and to lecturing on subjects pertaining to the
study of medicine. She has traveled extensively in
the territory and is widely and favorably known.
The Doctor is a thorough and competent teacherand
is possessed of excellent natural ability sim-
plifies her subjects so that no one can mistake her
meaning. As a lecturer she has been very highly
spoken of having a good voice and pleasing man-
ner and a faculty of concentrating her ideas so as
to make her points clear and concise. There is
much need of efficient and intelligent help in this
field of labor and it is a branch of the profession
that will always find employment. The sisters in
the various settlements in the several Stakes of
Zion should use their utmost influence to send
students to receive this class of instruction; that
there need be no lack of thorough preparation on
the part of those who officiate as practitioners.
Young women should be encouraged to study this
important branch of medical science and become
intimately acquainted with the human organism,
that they may be better prepared to fill the high
and holy mission assigned to them on earth that
of  the wife and mother.	
	Dr. Maggie C Shipp has labored under great
disadvantages and has had to practise severe les-
sons of self denial in order to obtain the knowl-


edge of her profession and she is desirous of
using her best efforts to impart correct ideas to
others, and we sincerely hope she will meet with
liberal patronage from the Saints.


