	BY MRS. SARAH P. CROSBY.
		
	Gentlemen and ladies:  I appear before you
on this interesting occasion, in behalf of the 
mothers of Israel and I am thankful to my
Heavenly Father for the privilege of being
able to represent such good and pure and noble
minded women as the women of Utah and the
mothers in Israel, and that we are permitted in
peace to celebrate this memorable day, the 37th
anniversary of the arrival of the Pioneers into
Salt Lake Valley, where the Saints throught
they were free from oppression and where they
could "worship God according to the dictates
of their own consciences."
	After being driven from the States of
Misouri and Illinois, their husbands and 
fathers having been torn from their families
imprisoned and some even murdered by a 
ruthless mob, while innocent women and child-
ren had been left without a protector, and
many had suffered death from hunger and
exposure and all for the knowledge they had of
God and the truthfulness of His work, and the
ready willingness to obey his laws, and while
fleeing as fugitives from their beloved country 
and under the most trying circumstances an
order was given by Colonel S. F. Kearney of
the U. S. Army, then commanding the army
of the West and issued by Capt. James Allen
calling for five hundred of our best men who
would accept the service for twelve months, 
who would be willing to serve their country for
that period in the war with Mexico, which
order was complied with, leaving women and
children on the prairie without homes or
shelter, my mother and her children being
among the number.

	"What were their families to do,"
	Their children wives and mothers too,
	When fathers, husbands, sons were gone?
	Mothers drove teams, and camps moved on. 

	But passing over these scenes and encounter-
ing the hardships of a long and tedious jour-
ney of over a thousand miles on a trackless
wilderness brought us to the valley of Great
Salt Lake then a barren desert unihabita-
ble except to the wolf, owl and roaming 
Indian.
	But nothing daunted these same brave
women went to work with a will, in connection
with their husbands to make homes in the
desert and make it blossom as the rose, with
all the hardships of a frontier life, they can
now point with pride to their beautiful homes
in the once desert valleys, also their numerous
and beautiful children being reared in the
fear and admonition of the Lord. 
	But the enemy that drove them from their
homes in the States of Misouri and Illinois
is again upon them with intent to mob them
of their peaceable happy homes and their
liberties. 
	Delicate women have been made to suffer
the most exquisite torture of mind, some have 
been incarcerated in prison, and all for the
sake of our religious convictions, but do we
feel to bemoan our fate?  Not at all!  but we
will contend legally for our rights trusting in
God and that we may ever prove true to our re-
ligion, to our God and to our friends, is the
humble prayer of your sister.


The telegrams on the 25th of August announced
a horrible calamity in Canton, China, by a flood
which destroyed at once ten thousand lives,
The details are horrifying and the consequences
which will follow the loss of property and
crops will no doubt involve such distress and
suffering as one shrinks from thinking about.


