EDITOR OF THE BOSTON COMMONWEALTH:
	A landscape varies in beauty and interest
according as it is seen from one or another
point of view. Not unlikely the Mormon
question may also be viewed under a better
light than that under which it appeared in the

[Column 2]

Commonwealth of July 18th. Will you kindly
permit a long-time subscriber to attempt so to
present it?
	Now, keeping in mind that persecutions on
account of religious opinions and practices
were very prevalent in the old countries, from
which emigrated the settlers of what now form
the United States and that to prevent the
persecution of any religious sect in the United
States, it was expressly declared in the politi-
cal constitution of the United States, that
"Congress shall make no law respecting an es-
tablishment of religion, or prohibiting the
free exercise thereof," then the Mormon prob-
lem is, whether Mormons in the United States
are,equally with other religious sects, entitled
to protection in the enjoyment and exercise of
their religious faith and practice, including the
practice or plural or polygamic marriage.
	By Christians, marriage is regarded to
be a religious ordinance. By Roman
Catholics and also by Mormons, it is held to
be a sacrament. The Roman Catholic church,
in obedience to its interpretation of the Bible,
and its other religious authorities, approve
celibacy, but permit monogamic marriage, and
hold it as the only legal and true marriage.
For ages it has endeavored, through terrific
maledictions, and by awful pains and penalties,
to prevent polygamic marriage. On the other
hand, Mormons, under the sanction
of the same Bible, and in obedience to
it and their other religious authorities,
discountenance celibacy, believe both mono-
gamic and polygamic marriage to be approved
of by God, and practice either, according as
their inclination and circumstances may per-
mit. By Shakers celibacy is approved and
practiced. and all marriage is religiously
avoided. In all these sects the conjugal re-
lation, be it of any kind, whether entered into
or avoided, partakes of a religious character,
and the free exercise of it as a religious or-
dinance by each and every sect of religionists
is, as many honest. sound thinkers believe,
equally entitled to protection against inter-
ference and persecution. Wise and politic
was the Roman proconsul Gallio, when he
told Paul's persecutors that as to their ques-
tions and the interpretations of their religious
law, to look to it themselves and not to trouble
him with them, and so drove them from the
judgement-seat.—Acts xviii, 18. Would that
Congress had been equally judicious in its
treatment of the Mormon question! Every
religious persecution, whether heathen or
Christian, is impolitic and wrong, and is re-
membered to the shame of the persecutors.
The persecution of the witches, supported as
it was by the honorables and reverends of the
day, is now reckoned as a sorry blot on the
fair fame of Massachusetts. The present per-
secution of the Mormons in a so-called land of
liberty, and under a political constitution ex-
pressly providing for religious toleration,
will be recorded in history as a lamentable out-
break of bigotry and intolerance, as a breach
by the government of its solemnly blighted
faith for religious liberty, and a wicked and
cruel violation of the natural marital rights of
men and women.
	The Commonwealth writer insists that "the
laws of order and decency must be enforced in
Utah." In the opinion of many competent
observers (whose testimony there is not here
space for) there was far more genuine order
and decency in Utah, prior to the enactment
of the Edmunds statute, and the advent there
of government officials and their servitors,
than there has since been. The Mormons were
orderly and peaceful, and even now, though
suffering from bitter oppression, are yet orderly
and peaceful. "Order reigns in Warsaw,"
said the Czar; but despotism, whether in Ru-
sia or the United States, is not order; it is con-
centrated disorder, it is mental dynamite, and,
sooner or later, will explode, spreading misery


[Column 1]

and destruction in its blast. As for the laws
of decency—decencies are matters of taste,
custom and habit, and vary with time and
places. A Turkish lady is shocked to be seen
by a strange man without a covering to her
face, and sometimes will veil it with her only
petticoat. A well bred African lady blushes
to be seen for the first time in clothes. Why
should the Commonwealth writer's notion of
decency be enforced upon "Mormons" instead
of their notions being enforced upon him? In-
decency is the fruit of ignorance; it is prolific
in vicious minds. It does not exist in virtu-
ous souls. Pharisees and hypocrites everywhere
see much of it, unconscious all the while, that
it is simply the reflex action of their own in-
ward thoughts.
	The Commonwealth writer emphasizes that
it "is clear" that "polygamy is a sin against
the law of nature and the law of society,
against man and against woman." If it be
thus so clear, it is wondrous strange that many
wise and good men who have made it a matter
of special observation did not so see it. No-
where in the Bible is there any condemnation
of it. On the contrary, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob,
Moses, the psalmists and prophets, practiced
polygamy. Said Jesus: "Whosoever shall put
away his wife and marry another, commiteth
adultery against her. The sin is not in marry-
ing another, but in putting away the other wife,
"The Lord, the God of Israel, saith that he
hateth putting away."—Malachi 2, 16.
	So far from being clear to Plate that poly-
gamy was wrong, he suggested that in a per-
fect republic it would be of great advantage
to all concerned that wives and children
should be in common. Socrates, Theodoret,
St. Ambrose, St. Chrysostom, St. Augustin,
Bolingbroke, Luthur, Melancthon, and other
philosophers, churchmen and statesmen, after
careful consideration, have concluded that
polygamy was not forbidden, neither by the
law of nature, nor by the word of God, and
therefore is not sinful.
	All this and much more valuable learning
on the subject may be found in Rev. Dr. Mar-
tin Madan's "Thelyphthora," published in 1781,
in London, by a brother of the Bishop of
Bristol and Peterborough. Dr. Madan there
seeks to prove that polygamy is a divine law
of marriage, and that the dissoluteness so
prevalent in the cities of Christendom (some
revelations of which have recently been made
through the columns of the Pall Mall Gazette)
are the necessary and certain outgrowth of
enforced exclusive monogamic marriage. A
copy of Dr- Madan's book is in the Boston
Public Library. Moreover, about ten years
ago, there was published in Boston a second
edition of "The History and Philosophy of
Marriage, or Polygamy and monogamy com-
pared by a Christian Philanthropist." The
author was a Baptist minister, who went to
India, and there, having lived for many years,
he returned, he says, "to my native land an
older, and, I hope, a wiser man," He re-
marks that the prejudices of modern Christians
to polygamy "are neither natural nor inveter-
ate, but that they have been induced by the
corrupted Christianity of the mediæval priest-
hood, and that they will be removed when
Christian people become better informed."
Rev. David O. Allen, missionary of the Ameri-
can Board of Missions for twenty-five years in
India, in his "India Ancient and Modern," a
copy of which was given to the Boston Public
Library by Theodore Parker, says (page 604):
Polygamy is not wrong as it exists among Jews.
Mohammedans and Hindoos, and that the con-
tinuance of the relations after they become
Christian cannot be morally wrong- The Cal.
cutta Missionary Conference of missionaries
of several sects, exclusive of Roman Catholic,
adopted unanimously the same conclusion.
	But let this article, now almost too long for
your columns, close with a single remark from

[Column 2]

John Selden's "Table Talk" He was a mem-
ber of the Westminster Association for Di-
vines for settling the doctrine, liturgy and
government of the Church of England, of
stupendous learning in all kinds, and in all
languages, and of whose "Table Talk", Coler-
idge said, there is more weighty bullion sense
in it, than he ever found in the same number
of pages in any uninspired writer. Selden's
remarks is that "Marriage is nothing but a
civil contract." "Of all actions of a man's life,
his marriage does least concern other people.
Yet of all actions of our life, 'tis most meddled
with by other people."
	Now, Mr. Editor, please allow me to express
the wish of many good citizens, that the exist-
ing persecutions of the Mormons may speedily
and completely cease.
		A. E. G.
	Hyde Park, Mass., July 22, 1885.


