NOTES AND NEWS.

	The cholera still continues to rage unabated
in Spain and the panic and the suffering is
dreadful in the extreme. The scourge has al-
ready reached France where there has been
much fear and many deaths, and a telegram
has been received at washington saying cholera
had broken out in Japan.
	Patents were issued to women inventors
during the week ending Aug. 4, 1885:
	Mary M. Burchfield, Kingston, Ill., Steam
Fruit Dryer.
	Lucinda Fuller, Detroit, Mich., Window-
Sash.
	Caroline M. Hills, Chicago, Ill., Paint-Pot.
	Charlotte A. McGee, Jackson, Mich., Corset,


On the 25th ult a terrible cyclone struck
Charleston S. C. and the damage to crops,
valuable property, shipping etc., is estimated
something over a million dollars. The storm
was very severe at other points doing much
damage to houses, crops, mills etc., Jacksonville
Florida being one of the places which suffered
seriously by it.
	The Queen having signified to the Rev. J.
Baily, the Chairman of the festivities Com-
mittee at Cowes, that she would drive through
the town	*	*	with Prince and Princess
Henry of Battenberg, the townspeople replaced
the decorations which had been erected on the
occasion of the Royal marriage on Thursday
last, and many additional banners and flags
were displayed from every point, from the
floating bridge to the High-street, together
with many beautifully decorated and appropri-
ate mottoes and evergreens. The children of
the Sunday schools of the town, to the number
of two thousand, were assembled in the Mar-
ket-square, and the H (Cowes) Company of
the Isle of Wight Volunteers, with their band,
were also drawn up at the same point. Pre-
cisely at seven o'clock in the evening, the
Queen,, accompanied by the Royal pair, drove
through the High-street in a waggonette
amidst a large and enthusiastic assemblage,
who cheered heartily. The volunteers received
her Majesty with a Royal salute, while the
band played the National Anthem. Her
Majesty repeatedly bowed her acknowledg-
ments of the loyal greeting of the visitors and
townspeople. The Royal party also drove
through Newport last evening, and in anticipa-
tion of the visit the streets were decorated and
crowded with thousands of people, who hearti-
ly greeted her Majesty and the Royal bride
and bridegroom, who repeatedly bowed their
acknowledgements.


[Column 1]
DAVID JAMES & CO.,
