AN OCEAN VOYAGE.

   It always makes a great difference as to what
the circumstances are under which a thing is
written. You have asked for a description of an
ocean voyage. Here are two equally truthful,
but vastly different as the feelings of the writer
were different. The first was written mid-
ocean. The second while sailing up the chan-
nel, when the day was warm, the sea smooth
and the outlines of  land were plainly visible.
				No 1.
   The romantic never tire reading of the
beauties of the ocean. Yet even as good a
thing as the sea, becomes monotonous after a
time. One who has been eight or nine days
on the water, without friends and with very
few agreeable companions is decidedly apt to
sigh for a sight of land--for one more look at
hills and valleys, for wooded heights looking
far into the azure sky, or even for the bare
and brown and barren soil, and the desire for
a sight of mother earth is materially heightened
by the sensation peculiar to those who have
not been blessed with what travelers call "sea
legs," but what might more appropriately be
termed a "sea," or, using a synonym, a "cast-
iron stomach." The rapture of a sea voyage
would doubtless be greatly enhanced were one
conscious of the power to land at his sweet
will; but the enforced agony is the "rub," and
it is this that causes the weary watcher of the
wave to chafe. Byron was right, and one can
heartily endorse his utterances, when is cor-
rectly accented the oft quoted passage:

	There is a pleasure in the pathless woods,
		There is a rapture on the lonely shore;
	There is society where none intrudes
		By the deep sea, and music in its roar."

   The rapture of the ocean is strictly con-
fined to the shore. "A life on the ocean wave"
is no doubt a very delightful thing to those who


[Column 1]
enjoy that sort of thing; but even on a fine
day, with a smooth sea, it is difficult for the
internal man to picture anything that is
beautiful.  One stands in the boat gazing about
him, his vision limited by the uniting of sea
and sky at a given distance,the vessel being the
very centre of what appears to be a large dish
in the concave side of which we are flounder-
ing about. It is true, the overpowering monot-
ony is broken at times by the appearance of
another sail in the dish, and the joy of the
veriest old "sea dog" at any relief whatever
from the prevailing monotony is to be seen in 
the alacrity with which he heads himself about
so as to get a fully view of the stranger. An ocean
voyage may be very tame or very exciting as
the circumstances make it. It might be a very
pleasant one and yet lacking in incidents of
especial interest or it may be fully of interest,
and anything but pleasant. Heavy storms; an
accident, or the too imminent approach to ice-
berg- those diamond mountains, glistening and
sparkling in the sunlight or glimmering and
shimmering in the full light of the moon, may
give life to the event and make it ever memora
ble. For my part, however. I had rather be
on shore and send some one out tnto the pond
to stir up a commotion when I wanted to see
the ocean in its wildest merriest mood. Talk
about the varying mood of the sea! The only
variation and (it is as anything but of frequent
occurrence) is to see it smooth. It is either
rough or smooth, or " 'alf hand 'alf." So far as
any difference in appearance is concerned, one
might as well be in  prison for three months
as on the ocean for a like period when there is
no land visible. Before one goes to bed at 
night he takes a fond farewell look at the
watery dish; arising the following morning he
gazes out upon the same old watery platter, a
few waves having perhaps come to be disjointed
through the night. But for the knowledge
that a given number of hours have elapsed,
one is unconscious of the fact that any change
in position has been made or any advance se-
cured.
	For several days, at least, nearly all the
passengers are in their cabins "bleaching out."
They come up on a fine day only to succumb
again when the sea begins to get stirred up.
There is a look of fiendish delight in
the eyes of the ship's officers at the "much
better, thanks" from the white and bloodless
lips, in response to the gruff, "how are you
'smorning?" while the gastly smile of the gulping
passenger seems to afford a degree of pleasure
not exceeded by the prospects of a rattling
good breakfast. There is always a warm, oily,
greasy smell about the ship that makes a fellow
feel as though it were a well of lobelia. The
sea itself for three or four days, has a nauseat-
ing odor, which sets the internal apparatus
a-quivering. A person must have a cast-iron
stomach, anyhow, to endure the perfume of
the cabin for the first four days, and when he
comes off deck he has to dash for his room as
though pursued by demons lest he should be
caught in "the act." I will back one good
whiff from the steerage against the best known
medicine in the world as an emetic. It is
warranted to upset the stoutest stomach with-
in 36 hours, and keep it upset for a considera-
ble length of time.
	It is entertaining to note the proneness, one
might say fondness of passengers (who have
been conspicuously absent during meal hours
and from the deck in daylight) for the “shades
of evening”. The faster these fall the more
rapidly do the bowels of the ship deliver up
those who have sought its seclusion in the day.
One sees male and female convulsively grasp
ing the cabin companionway railing, while afar
away "oh give me back 'me' native heath, I
never more will roam the mighty deep" sort of a
look o’erspreads their pale and emaciated
features. In the less aristocratic quarter of
the vessel, the boat side seems to be the popu-

[Column 2]
lar resort during the dark watches of the night;
ever and anon one or another of these hang-
ing over, seem to have discovered something
of living- of surpassing interest in the waves
beneath. One often hears a sea voyave recom-
mended for persons suffering from a complica-
tion of diseases. There is little doubt of its
efficacy. What is left of the individual after
it is over ought to be healthy. It partakes of
the nature of the toothache- all other evils
are swallowed up in it, but the cure is infinite
ly worse than the disease. Oh, for about two
inches of land if a fellow only had it in his
pocket. This may sound like a joke, but the
following extracts from the dairy of a very "dear
friend" of mine will tell the tale: 'March 24
sailed from New York. Taken sick 7 hours
after starting. March 25, sick. March 26,
sick. March 27, crawled up on deck, but feel
very bad. March 28, fine day, feel better.
March 29, a little rough, sick again. March
30, feel fine. March 31, actually want to eat.
April 1, rough again and sick again. April 2,
very sick until land is sighted; get up and feel
way up. April 3, nothing like an ocean voyage
after all- at least I hope there isn't. On land
once more. Oh joy, oh rapture."
	No. 2. 
	"The sea! The sea!" Oh, glorious sea! Ever
flowing, ever throbbing with new pulsations.

	"It plays with the clouds, 
	It mocks the skies
	Or like a cradles creature lies."

	Calm and placid as a zephyr-swept lake;
leaping in frolic, or heaving mountain high,
there is perpetual variation as there is forever
unrest in the ocean. "Oh, restless sea!” I
have read of the deep green of the ocean,
heard it referred to in times of ecstacy, and have
looked for it while upon the way, day after
day, but never saw it until now. From New
York until the shores of Ireland came in
view, the water has been a dark, slaty hue;
save momentarily when the wind, catching and
breaking the crest of passing wave into a veil
of whitest and purest spray would fling it
athwart another flying wave, with whose
depths it would gradually sink, revealing as it
faded from sight, all the colors of the rainbow,
the varied, brightened and incandescent tints
of the opal and quartz crystal- dancing for a
few moments in the full sunlight, gladdening
the heart and filling the eye with indescriba-
ble radiance, and then passing away forever.
There is beauty, poetry, sublimity and always
music in the ocean. There is beauty when the
day is full of sunshine; when the night is rich with
the light of the silvery moon; when the flashing
of the waves against the sides of the onward go-
ing boat beat time and produce melody and
rhythm incomparable - the music of nature.
There is sublimity, there is majesty when the
sea, lashed to a fury, leaps mountain high,
and the mighty waves fling themselves in mad-
dened wrath against the struggling ship, until
she quivers again as if in anger, the while a
yawning gulf opens before us on either side.
How the bosom swells with confidence, and the
pride of mankind thrills through the being
to see the toy- this child of the hand of man—
right and rise in majesty and grace and
strength, seeming to show contemptuous defi-
ance for the furious lashing of the mighty
wave, Then is it grand, majestic, sublime and
there is an anthem in the roar that swells the
proud and exlutant heart and finds an echo in
in the whole being. There is poetry in the
ocean when white capped waves chase white
capped waves, when they dance in the sunlight,
clash arms; rush at each other as if in anger,
never resting, still pursuing, still evading as
far as the ever unsatisfied eye can see. And
at night there is a sublimity, softened by the
shadowed hours, in the deep and dreamy fancies
awakened in the mind and echoed in the heart

[Column 3]
by watching the dark smoke as it emerges from
the high funnel and glides noiselessly into the
night air; and by the fresh breeze is wafted in-
to fantastic forms, recalling the dread genii of
tales of fairy land and of the "Arabian nights."
There is a tenderness incomparable when the
waves murmur like gentle winds stealing
through leaf-hidden trees, with green and
dancing sunlight reflected in a myriad directions
as from a shattered glass, while the warm, sun-
lit sky arches low till wave and heaven meet
in a fond, and one could wish indissoluble em-
brace, with blue sky and blue wave abounding;
when the moon floods the air and sea with a serene
and hallowed glory, and the track along the
wave is as the shimmering hoar frost glisten-
ing in the moonlit air of a winter's night, or
when on a rugged shore, the breakers rise
slowly up like spirits robed in spotless white,
lifting higher and higher and higher, until,
breaking into a multitude of spires, pinnacles
and minarets, they gently subside into the
wave only to give place to other forms equally
as fantastic; whenever, at whatever hour, in any
mood and at all times, the ocean is grand,
beautiful, sublime.
	About 2 o'clock on the ninth day the coast
of Ireland became visible - and as we ap-
proached the shore, the water, which had been
pretty rough grew gradually smooth. Now,
for the first time, I saw the green of the ocean
- the green of poet and of painter. We
could see the thatched roofs in places and the
fields separated by hedges, storm clouds were
passing over the Island pouring out their
grateful drops, as one often sees when in our
moutain home. Nothing could be more
beautiful. The evening came on calm and
lovely. The sun huug low over the wave in
the west. A fleecy cloud obscured its stronger
rays like a light and airy veil, and filled the
air with warmest tints. The blue sky arched
over; the calm, green wave beneath. The
vessel glided on; the waves scarce make a
ripple. As the sun reaches the horizon, the
sea before us is filled with tiny sails dancing
on the unbroken bosom of the water; they are
countless in number and their sails of tan-
bark hue, are spead out to catch the fitful
and almost imperceptible breeze. We are
prssing through the Irish mackerel fleet; some-
times the boats are so close that their inmates
salute us, sometimes afar off dancing in the
waves in the calm and soothing eventide. The
sun a huge molten ball, sinks into the western
water, taking with it the burning track of
light that lay along the sea, and the words of
Moore’s incomparable song involuntarily
break forth.
	“How dear to me the hour when daylight dies,
	And sunbeams melt along the silent sea;
	For thee, sweet dreams of other days arise,
	And mem'ry breaths her vesper sigh to thee.

	And, as I watch the line of light that plays,
	Along the smooth wave toward the burning west,
	I long to tread that golden path of rays,
	And think 't might, lead to some bright isle of rest

	The twilight comes; night's shades creep
slowly o'er the wave, and the outlines of the
Green Isle of the sea grow fainter; and fainter
the sails of the tiny fleet fade from view, "day's
latest red sinks down the west, and stars creep
out of heaven's breast."
	"Twas twilight there, and Dian hung her bow
	Low down the west; and there a star,
	Kindly on thee and me, from far
	Looked down; and blessed us through the passing glow."

	Night fell. The moon rose large, red and
full, out of the dark sea. In half an hour
heavens and ocean were flooded with a glorious
romantic and hallowed light in which one
loves to linger, which always awakens the better
and more tender emotions of the heart. Can such
an evening ever fade from the mind? Can the
effect in the heart ever cease?
