OBITUARIES

	Died in Santaquin, August 5th 1885. Joseph Abram,
son of Andrew and Ann Walwork. Aged 11 years, 1
month and ten days. He was a faithful member of the
Primary Association always ready to respond to every call.
We will miss him from our society, though we feel to say
thy will be done O Lord.
	Resolved that we, the officers and members of the as-
sociation, do sympathize with Brother Walwork and family,
in the loss of their beloved son and brother,
	Resolved that we place this on our record and present a
copy to the bereaved family, and that one be sent to the
EXPONENT for publication.
				ELIZABETH WALL, Prest.,
				AGNES CLARK,
				ANNIE BROADBENT, Counselors.

	James Hyrum,son of James and Francis A. Goodall,
who departed this life July 13th 1885, aged 8 years, 6
months and 20 days.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas by a decree of an alwise providence one of our
little members of the Primary Association of Santaquin,
has been called from our midst.
	Resolved that in our sorrow we find consolation in the
thought that it is well with him for whom we mourn, though
it is hard to part with our little ones.
	Resolved that we condole with the bereaved parents in
this their great loss and that we place this on our record
and present a copy to the bereaved parents and that one
be sent to the EXPONENT for publication.
		ELIZABETH WALL, Prest.,
		AGNES CLARK,
		ANNIE BROADBENT, Counnselors.

	With loving remembrance, we record the demise on
Sunday July 25th 1885 at the residence of her parents in
Santaquin, Genevie Lovina, daughter of Thomas and
Mary Jane Broadbent, aged 10 years, 1 month and 10
days. Summoned by the angel of death away from the
loving arms of her affectionate parents, brothers and sis-
ters. She was beloved by all who knew her and a bright
intelligent little girl. In the Primary Association she was
always punctual at her meetings.
	Truly of "Such is the Kingdom of Heaven."

		For her sweet face so dear to every eye,
		That knew and loved her in the days gone by;
		With love too strong, for even death to sever,
		That will live on through endless years forever.

	As God in His wisdom has seen fit to call another of
His precious jewels, we, as officers and members of the
Primary Association, unanimously adopt the following
resolutions.
	We sincerely condole with the parents, brothers and
sisters in their heavy bereavement and we tender them
our heartfelt sympathy.
	May her many virtues be emulated by the members of
our association so that her noble example may stimulate
others to a life of virtue and usefulness,
	Resolved that we adopt these resolutions as a token of
respect, that we present a copy to her parents, and pub-
lish the same in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and place a
copy on our record.
		FLIZABETH WALL, Prest.,
		AGNES CLARK,
		ANNIE BROADBENT, Counselors


