	﻿THOUGHTS ON THE TIMES.

	The terrible events transpiring from time to
time in the world are enough to harrow up the
souls of all those who are at all sensitive to suf-
fering and one who reflects can scarcely help
asking the question, what will the next denoue-
ment be. Those who are familiar with the Scrip-
tures and especially with the prophecies can
scarcely avoid recognizing the fulfillment of the
judgments of the Lord in the dreadful calamities
and casualitles which the records of the times are
showing. The recital of the horrors with which
the newspapers and journals abound can scarcely
be read without emotion. Destruction and death
come swooping down upon a city,a village a steam-
er an island or individuals without the least warn-
ing. Not only are the elements at seeming war
but the inhabitants of the earth “have sought out
many devices." Skill and cunning are combined
to produce and invent the means of destruction of
life and prosperity. Not only this but class dis-
tinctions and the hatred that springs up in conse-
quence of these, finds expression in various
ways sometimes in open outbreaks or more often
in secret societies and organizations where plans
are thoroughly matured and negotiations entered
into, that are demoralizing to the community and
will result in the undermining of its best interests,
and which there is every reason to fear from
hints and threats and palpable indications will
ultimately overturn society at large, striking at the
very foundations of civilization itself.
	The contemplation of these things furnishes
many lessons,especially to the prophetic mind of
a true Latter-day Saint, and although the subject
is an awe-inspiring and appalling one, yet when
these things are received as tokens of the
Messiah’s second coming and preparatory of the
reign of peace on the earth, one feels that humili-
ty, meekness and obedience to the commandments
of God is the sure path of safety and deliverance.
There is no trusting in the power and pride of
nations or of kingdoms, for all will be broken in
pieces according as the Prophet Daniel has said,
and the God of heaven will set up His Kingdom
never to be thrown down.
	Already the seeds of dissension and disunion
have been sown and are springing up in this gov-
ernment, which every loyal Ammerican citizen
has felt so much pride in, and such intense love
for; and the very laws that have been enacted to
prevent the free exercise of religious liberty and to
disfranchise men and women innocent of any
crime, and furthermore to harass, distress and im-
prison them, inflicting pains and penalties for the
practical acceptance of a law of God, a law that
He has at different times in past ages,as well as
in the present positively commanded His people
to observe, this has opened such a yawning
chasm in the before almost perfect structure, that
all nations have admired even from afar, that not
many years hence unless strong measures are
immediately taken to repair or bridge over this
great opening that has been made in the very

[Column 2]
foundations of liberty, it will be irreparable, and
not only Latter-day Saints who have been made
the first immediate sufferers, but the fifty-five
millions of people that are continually held up
as a warning to this handful of people, will feel it,
and sorrow and misery will ensue such as one
can scarcely endure even the thought of.
	And why are these fifty-five millions of people
so indignant, so disgraced to use the familiar
language of the newspapers of the day, because
a few people away out here in Utah have adopt-
ed the patriarchal form of marriage. Has it ever
hurt them, or in any way infringed upon a right of
theirs, social, political or religious? If it has
there is always the Law and the Courts to go to
 for justice. But it has not, and even those who
have come here and established themselves,
planted homes and built up churches of the vari-
ous denominations, cannot say truthfully that in
any way they have been intruded upon, or injured
because of the practice of a plurality of wives.
That wives are contented, that children are edu-
cated and provided for, that homes are respecta-
ble, that all things are done decently and in order
and no law of propriety infringed upon we make
bold to assert. That fathers and mothers who
have obeyed this principle and honored it have
been peculiarly and wonderfully blest, we most
solmnly affirm; that those who have fought against
it and have been unwilling to accept this purer
and higher law given for the advancement of the
human family in the scale of progression have
not attained to the same intelligence and excel-
lence that those have, who have obeyed this princi-
ple and entered into these sacred covenants. The
Gentiles themselves who live in Utah know that
the men that have been disfranchised are honora-
ble, upright men; men of unimpeachable integrity,
and they know too that it is not because they do
not honor virtue and encourage purity of life, that
men are arraigned before these courts and
condemned by juries who are in no sense of the
word their peers. Is this justice? Is there even a
semblance of honesty in it leaving honor out of
the question? Will prison bars or cells or penalties
or punishments of any kind destroy a vital princi-
ple? No never! Punishments may be so severe
as to torture, wear out and kill, but the principle
still exists and eventually truth will triumph over
error how ever fiercely the battle may rage be-
tween the two opposing powers.
	Those who live longest will see in the finale of
the present controversy and persecution now rag-
ing, ostensibly in consequence of the practise of a
principle that was taught and practised by holy
men of old, that it will yet appear that office seek-
ing, political place and power and Mammon were
the real motives that caused the raid against the
"Mormons." Let the deceiver and hypocrite hide
their wicked deeds under cover of love of virtue
and loyalty to government, time will yet disclose
their baseness and treachery and all those who
have fought against Zion will be brought to naught,
and the Kingdom of God will flourish and spread
abroad and all nations will see the glory thereof.


[Column 1]
