A FEW OF MY THOUGHTS.

	First I would say that of all people on
earth we are the most blest, and should be the


most happy. It is true we are deprived of
many privileges, as legal citizens that we should
enjoy. We are hated by all the world, op-
pressed, even imprisoned, our rights taken
from us, yet we know it is the work of the
Lord and He will suffer our enemies to oppress
us until we become the people he desires us to
be. Then we must acknowledge the hand of
the Lord in it, and know that it is for our good.
How necessary it is that we should become a
better people, and to do this, we must obey all
His commandments do everything that is re-
quired of us by those in authority, in righteous-
ness, overcome our selfish nature, do to others
as we would have them do unto us, so that we
may claim His blessings. Now, I wish to say
a few words in regard to the Relief Society.
There seems to be various opinions as to what
the duties are and what it is intended
for. Now, I do not pretend to say that I know,
but I know what I think. Some say this
society never was intended for anything but to
work and make means to relieve the poor, and
say I don't think it is women's business to hold
meetings and preach. These meetings are so
dull, I can't be interested in them. Others
will say, I can't see any good the Relief
Society does anyhow, and I don't like to go to
the meetings I am afraid I will have some-
thing to do. Now, my sisters, I hope there is
none in our little place that have such a spirit
as this in our society, if there is, I would ask
them whose duty it is to make the society pros-
per and make our meetings lively and interest-
ing, is it the President's? if you think so you
are deceiving yourself, for she in her own
strength and weakness is not able to do it. She
must have the faith and prayers and united
efforts of her sisters and strength and wisdom
from God. There are none that have never
held this position that can tell how embarrass-
ing it is, especially when one sees that some
are inclined to pull back, Now I hope that
none of my sisters feel like this. Now I will
tell you what I think about our Relief Society.
I think they hold the same relation in the
Church that a woman does to her husband.
The woman is the help-mate for the man and
he is not perfect without her, and the
Prophet Joseph said the Church was not com-
plete without the Relief Society, so it is the
woman's duty to help her husband in all
things temporal, religious, political, or any-
thing that is for his interest, is for hers also.
He is the father, she is the mother and his
equal, but not his superior. The Bishop is
the father of the people, so the Society is the
mother and it has its duties to look after the
interest of the ward as a mother looks after
her children. Teach them good principles,
correct wrongs, relieve distress, set a good ex-
ample and work for the interest of the ward.
Women are expected to help build up the
Kingdom as well as the men and if the Lord
has designed that this should be part of the
work we are to do, let us take hold in good
faith not doubting but what we will accom-
plish some good, I do think that we are
favored and blest with privileges that we shonld
appreciate and furthermore when we meet in
our working meetings we are engaged in God's
work and should observe as good order as
though we had met for worship.	*	*
		M. B.
	Erastus, Arizona.


[Column 1]

[From the Boston Commonwealth, Saturday, August
1st, 1885.]

