EMERY STAKE.

	Minutes of the 5th semi-annual conference
of the Relief Society of Emery Stake held at
Castle Dale August 7th 1885. Prest. Anna U.
Larson presiding. Singing, prayer by Prest.
C. G. Larsen. Singing, and minutes of last
conference read and approved, also statistical
and financial reports for the last half year.
President Anna U. Larsen addressed the
conference, was pleased to hear the reports for
the last six months, thought it showed the
sisters to be alive to their duties, said the poor
should be remembered, if any in our midst.
Spoke of the persecutions we are passing
through at this time and said, it behooves us
to live humble and prayerful that we may be
faithful to the end. The presidents were all
present except the one from Moab. They gave
verbal reports showing that the sisters were
united in whatever they undertook to do
	Meeting was then adjourned till half past
1 o'clock.  Singing. Benediction by Bishop H.
Olsen.

	Afternoon meeting: Opened with singing,
prayer by Bro. E. Curtis. Singing.
	Sister Larsen spoke for a short time, was
thankful she had a testimony to bear to the
truth of this work; spoke of the persecutions
of the Saints. 
	Brother Peter Johnson, Sister Ann Pul-
sipher Sister A. Fulmer, also Sister Stena
Olsen and Sister Curtis spoke and bore faith-
ful testimonies.
	President C. G. Larsen was pleased to hear
the reports read, thought it very commendable
to the sisters, was glad they had a few hundred
bushels of grain stored up. Spoke of home-
manufacture, said some of our brethren are
cast into prison but that is just a commence-
ment of the trials, and it is not alone those
who practice the law of celestial marriage, but
all claiming to be Latter-day Saints will be
tested in a similar manner.
	Bishop H. Olsen was highly pleased to see
the improvement the sisters had made and en-
couraged them to faithfulness.
	President Anna U. Larsen made closing
remarks; was pleased to see part of the carpet
ready, made by the sisters of this Stake, for
Manti Temple. Thanked all the sisters for
donating so freely. Sister Clara C. R. Kofford
was then sustained as Assistant Stake Secretary
for the R. S. of Emery Stake.
	Conference adjourned till the first Friday in
Feb. 1886, to be held at Huntington. Sing-
ing. Benediction by Bishop J Robertson.
	ANALIZA SEELY, Stake Sec.


Madame Patti is taking a rest at her castle
in Wales and intends remaining there until
November.


