PERSECUTED FOR RIGHTEOUSNESS
SAKE.

	Yes we are persecuted for daring to dissent
from established man-made laws and the opinions
of the general mass of mankind. When es-
tablished rule contaminates and makes the lives
of its votaries corrupt it is high time to awake
to a sense of the condition of society and set our
faces like flint against prevailing evil that will
lead the soul down to dissolution and death.
Every Latter-day Saint that loves virtue and moral
rectitude has stepped out of the broad high-way
into the narrow path that leads unto eternal life,
and so wide apart are these two ways they can
never blend together. The one leads to destruc-
tion and dissolution, while the other is progress-
ive, onward and upward. The higher grade that
leads to that immortal shore, where the ship of
Zion anchors safely. If we can count the num-
ber of sands upon the sea shore, or when we 
raise our eyes and gaze into the starry sky and be-
hold with wonder and amazement its organized
magnitude; we are lost in thought and exclaim,
neither can we conceive nor number the multitude
of beings that will increase worlds without end,
sons and daughters of these noble men and
women who have dared to differ in their religious
convictions, who have entered into the Patriarchal
order of marriage that reaches within the vail,
like an anchor to the soul, sure and steadfast.
They have made an eternal covenant with their
God. To continue the lives as did the Patriarchs
of old. To perpetuate a righteous seed that can-
not be numbered for multitude, whose souls are
lit up with fire of revelation. The true
sons and daughters of God, born un-
der the new and everlasting cove-
nant of God, the only covenant that He acknowl-
edges. This law of marriage binds stronger than
death. The ceremony is performed for time and
all eternity, and binds the husband to his wives in
the resurrection and the children to their parents.
This is the binding law spoken of in Malachi
last chapter. To bind the hearts of the parents
to their children and the children to the parents.
Moses held this law and married the children of
Israel by it and there were very strict statutes and
judgments pertaining to this higher law of mar-
riage. They were not to mingle with any other
people, that God did not acknowledge, they (the
Priests) were forbidden to marry a divorced woman.
The husband and wife should be of the same
faith and blood of their progenitors, and abstain
from all social evils.
	Time is fleeting and the Lord will cut His work
short in righteousness.
	Mat. 3rd chap, "Behold I will send my mesenger
and he shall prepare the way before me; and the
Lord, whom ye seek, shall suddenly come, to His
Temple even the messenger of the covenant
we delight in, He shall come saith the Lord of
hosts."
	Here are two individuals spoken of. The Lord
will come to His temple, and the messenger that
prepared the way before the Lord, a messenger of
the covenant.
	4th verse: "Then shall the offering of Judah
and Jerusalem be pleasant unto the Lord as in the
days of old, and as in former years. The Savior
has identified His name with polygamists, calls
himself the offspring of David, and says of him-
self, "Behold, I come quickly, etc," calls himself,
"the Lord God of the holy prophets." Nathan
the prophet was one of these.
	An overwhelming revolution is on the verge of
time before our eyes. Divine prophecy must have
a fulfillment. Nearly 2000 years has passed away

[Column 2]

since the great change took place in the Jewish
nation. They were a powerful majority in state
and religion and thought the minority could not
cope with them, the poor, meek, simple Gentiles,
not worthy to enter their sanctums of worship, or
eat with them at table. But John the Baptist came
crying from the wilderness, "Repent ye, for the
Kingdom of God is at hand." And the meek and
lowly Jesus made himself the friend of these out-
cast Gentiles, whom the Jews called sinners which
was a great offence to those learned Rabbis,
and a Savior born of poor parentage was an in-
sult to their dignity. Therefore they spurned
offers of salvation at the hands of mercy, and
their pride and rebellion laid them low in power.
They fought against a kind and merciful God,
killed His prophets that were sent unto them to
warn them of coming judgments and crucified
God's only son. By doing this they thought to
have full power and control over their own des-
tiny. But their overthrow and downfall was
sure and certain, and the poor despised Gentiles
rose to eminence upon their downfall, nationally
and religiously. Let us draw aside the vail and
look with comparative eyes at causes and effects
that are transpiring on the stage of present events.
Is not the world ripe in iniquity and do not the
powers that be, defy God's right to set up His
Kingdom on the earth? Which He will do in the
same plain and simple manner as He did two
thousand years ago, as predicted by Daniel.
	The poor persecuted, "ignorant, criminal" out-
lawed Latter-day Saint people are just foolish and
simple-minded enough to believe that God will set
up His Kingdom on the earth to be a rule over all
others, and that He has sent His messenger of
the covenant to prepare the way of the coming
of the Lord Jesus, who will reign as King of kings
and Lord of lords, who will put all enemies under
His feet. And those who oppose these things,
when He shall come, will call for the rocks and
mountains to fall upon them to hide them from
His presence. Joseph Smith was a true prophet
of God. The Gospel was revealed to him, as the
Savior and the disciples preached it two thousand
years ago; and the writer of this, it was made
known to her several years before she knew such
a church or people existed. That the true church
and the same gospel that the Apostles preached
would be again, and I promised I would receive 
it if I had to suffer like unto the Saints in the
apostolic age. The first sermon I heard an Elder
of this Church preach, I was convinced it was the
Bible doctrine. I was 22 years of age, lived at
the time at South Norwalk, Conn. The subject
was, the Kingdom of God is like a perfect
structure, take away any of its parts and the
building would fall, so likewise take away from
the Kingdom of God, Apostles Prophets and the
gifts of the Spirit, it becomes disorganized at once
and has no power to act. The world stumbles
at our unity of faith. We are all baptised into
one body, we see eye to eye by the same spirit,
we believe in one faith, one baptism and one Lord
overall. One of our Church members may be in
India, another in New York, they both believe the
Gospel plan alike and need correspond. The
spirit that we receive after baptism leads us into
all truth.
	August 12.	M. A. PRATT.


