R. S. AND Y. L. MEETING.

	The ladies regular semi-montly meeting was
held in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms Saturday
August 22nd, Mrs E. B. Wells presiding. Sing-
ing, "Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation"
etc. Prayer by Mrs. Margaret Steele. Continued
by singing "When the voice of friendship’s heard."
Minutes of previous meeting read and approved.
Minutes of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the 20th, 17th,19th
and 1st and P. A. of the 5th and 21st Wards,were
then read.


﻿Mrs. E. B. Wells made some remarks upon
general subjects and referred especially to self-
control or the government of one's own temper
and passions. Thought it was a thing we should
all observe and seek to improve in and that it
would give us greater influence as mothers in our
own homes. Made other good suggestions.
	Mrs. Julia Howe addressed the meeting for a
short time and alluded also to the necessity of
self-control, spoke of her feelings in regard to
those who are suffering for the sake of principle,
her prayers and intercessions in their behalf and
made other good remarks.
	Mrs. H. T. King said she felt we were pass-
ing under a cloud, but it had a silver lining. Said
she could not remember the time when she did
not pray and had felt the benefit of prayer all her
life, spoke upon self and family government and
order in the home and advanced some excellent
ideas.
	Mrs. Mary Irvine said she felt she could not
give utterance to the feeeings of her heart, but
she came with the intention of mingling her voice
with the voices of her sisters, but did not expect
to speak from the stand. Spoke of her desire to
obtain perfect control of herself, thought she was
improving some, alluded to those men and women
who betray their brethren and sisters and the
horror she felt of such a course, exhorted all to
faithfulness, and advised those present who felt
inpressed to do so, to rise up and speak.
	Mrs. Wells then requested the sisters in the
congregation to occupy the remainder of the time
in speaking and bearing testimony.
	Testimonies were then borne by Sisters Mary
Brown, Mary Silver, Jane James. The congrega-
tion sung the first and last verse of the hymn "The
Spirit of God like a fire is burning." Testimonies
were afterwards borne by Sisters M. G. Chase,
C. Fawcett, Ann Richards, Lois Hook, Mary
Davis and others.
	Mrs. Wells made some closing remarks and
Mrs. Ellen Greeves made timely remarks and
bore a very strong and powerful testimony. Meet-
ing was then adjourned for two weeks. Singing,
"Mid Scenes of confusion and creature com-
plaints," and benediction by Dr. E. R. Shipp.


