	PROCREATION

	"The place whereon thou standest is holy ground."
	I realize the sanctity of the above extract
from holy writ, as I commence the subject I
am about to briefly consider.
	As I lay on my bed in the silent watches of
the night, in that indescribable mood between
sleeping and waking, something of the follow-
ing thoughts floated thro' my brain, vividly
impressing it.
	What a wonderful and mysterious work is
Procreation! how little, if at all, understood
by the world, or even by a large majority of the
Latter-day Saints.  It is shocking to think
and know, how it is performed in what is called
the world! without one thought of prepara-
tion; or the mighty results of such communion.
One party perhaps, charged with nothing but
coarse animal passion, even if not inflamed
by stimuli, which is often the case, while the

[Column 2]
other, it may be, is refined, delicate, and ele-
vated in her very nature.  As a wife, pure
and holy, and desiring worthily to fulfill her
marital covenants, but without any previous 
drawing out of her love, or endearments or
the slightest reflection of the end and pur-
pose of such an association, she is seized as
the victim, or receptacle of mere animal pas-
sion?  Imagine the constant repetition of such
a course, can love hold out, and endure such a
semblence of ravishment, and prostitution?
harsh words these, but no other would rightly
portray the acts, tho' a wedded wife, she feels
outraged, and how many bitter tears fall as
an accompaniment.  She cannot but feel she is
degraded. No wonder if her cry at such a
moment is that she may be released from such
a tie; or supposing not quite so bad a case, yet
where the mind and the system has had no
previous preparation, where is the joy, the love,
the extacy that should attend the procreation
of an immortal being.  Will a passive endur-
ance, or animal love alone produce a taber-
nacle worthy of an immortal being, which
should be one partaking of the elements of
which eternity is composed, and which ought
to inspire its conception?
	When we realize the reverse of all this need
we marvel at the beings we often  meet, who if
they ever attain purity of character it must be
by a crucifying process, and few minds are
strong enough to combat with a perverted
nature.  There are many phases which such a
union may produce, and consequently the
different natures and temperaments one meets
with; I feel sure that Latter-day Saints, many
of the most enlightened, study, with holy fear
and reverence, the wonderful and often ill-
understood command "Be fruitful and multi-
ply"—hat was given when there were but
two human beings upon the earth, and before
the earth was replenished or cultivated.
Let us meditate a moment upon the
tremendous responsibility incurred when the
being we call into existence is to live thro' the
countless ages of eternity, and who will carry
the organization with all its propensities, high
or low, thro' all these countless ages for these
form identity.  Would it not be worthy therefore
to study how we may prepare ourselves to pro-
create beings the elements of whom shall be
life, strength and unfading beauty, not dis
ease, distortion, decay, and death. To obtain
the former, we must be filled with life-giving
principles at the conception of that being, then
it will be an honor to the great Father of "the
spirits of all flesh," as also to its earthly parent-
age, and a blessing temporally and eternally
to the individual being.
	Then my thoughts suggest that beings
meditating such communion should draw out
by the best affections each possess by kind and
elevating association, for they are equal in this
wondrous act "neither are greater or less
than the other."  The Duetto should endeavor
to elevate their individual nature and charac-
ter and so act and react on each other; agreea-
ble reading or conversation, beautiful soul
thrilling music and even agreeable food; all
these and much more are essentials.
	There is a language without sound, which
the loving soul intuitively comprehends.
Should the mind of either be harassed it
should be soothed by gentle sympathy till
calm, and peace is restored to the whole organi-
zation; omit nothing that will strengthen, puri-
fy, refine and elevate both mind and body;
give the body especial and refining attention,
for it is to transmit a temple for an immortal
being. Then when thus molded and prepared,
and a sweet and heavenly mood produced, let
hands be joined in holy love and confidence,
and kneeling together in holy prayer, implore
the sanctifying, purifying influence of the 
Spirit of God to be infused into each system,
that the act may be pure and holy, that a
tabernacle may be organized in which a noble

[Column 3]
spirit may "enter in and dwell there;" that when
in days to come it may enter upon its earthly
career in the rich abundance of maturity, all
shall be constrained to say "behold one who
was born in Zion, whom the Lord hath blest."
To be an agent, a co-partner in such a heaven-
ly enterprise who would shrink from suffering.
Volumes might be written upon this marvel-
lous, mysterious subject, but I pray even this
hint may cause deeper thoughts to arise in the
pure bosom, that yearns to know the way of
truth and holiness that it may walk therein, for
no others do I make these thoughts palpable,
but I glory in the thought that God and angels
witness them.
	HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, August 1885.


