								LU DALTON.


[Column 1]
			HOME.
	It has been very wisely remarked that in
order to fully appreciate the blessing and
comforts of life, it is necessary for a person to
be deprived of them for a time. Who can so
much appreciate the cheerful home fireside,
the association with parents and friends, as
those who have been  called to face the hard, cruel
world alone, away from the kind, cheerful
faces and helping hands of the loved ones?
Home is the haven of rest to which we flee
when the day's work is done. Here we can
rest in quietness and peace; with none to mo-
lest or disturb us, and where we can always
find comfort and assistance when needed
	What is so cheerful a sight as to see father,
mother, brothers and sisters surrounding the
bright and cheerful hearth, each happy in the
other's love, and all contend with their lot?
I look back with much pleasure to some pleas-

[Column 2]
ant home scenes in which I have participated
and think of the many cheerful winter eve-
nings spent in my girlhood, when seated with
my dear ones around the large open fireplace,
piled high with the crackling logs, blazing and
dancing lighting up the faces of that happy
group, I have listened for hours to interesting
anecdotes and sad experiences of my parents,
which they took pleasure in relating for our
amusement and edification, pointing out little
instances here and there in their experience,
which we could profit by and improve upon.
	It is to this period of life we refer with
sweet and tender memories, and ineffaceable
impressions are made upon the mind, which in-
fluence very materially the thoughts and deeds
of more mature years.
	Home is. of all places on earth, the spot
which should approach nearest to what we be-
lieve heaven to be, and the laws and princi-
ples which result in making that the coveted
boon of mortal existence, and to which all
look forward as the reward of patient toil,
are those which should enter largely into the
formation or government of the earthly home,
so far as human beings understand and apply
them. It is said, and reflection and reason
corroborate the statement, that "order is heav-
en's first law." So also should it be the first law
in the home. Where there is disorder and
confusion the Spirit of God cannot abide, and
peace, love and happiness cannot be found.
The old adage, "A place for everything and
everything in its place," is a homely one, but
it is one that effects materially the good order
of a home and the joy of its inhabitants.
	Again we believe that selfishness must be
rooted from the heart, the temper brought un-
der control, and all the baser elements of
our nature brought into subjection, and charity,
brotherly love, kindness, and all the virtues
highly cultivated, ere we can hope to find a
place in the habitation of our Heavenly Father;
so also should the same evils be overcome, the
same virtue substituted therefor, in the
earthly home, if we desire or expect it to be
the haven of rest, the peaceful, happy abode
which the name of home should ever imply.
And this can only be accomplished by the in-
dividual efforts of every member of the house-
hold.
	There is one thing that should be especially
cultivated in the home, and that is refinement
- good language, gentle, kind manners, respect
for the feelings and desires of others - and every-
thing which is contrary to this, or would tend to
coarseness or vulgarity, should be banished
far from the heart and home, and never al-
lowed to abide for a single moment under its
roof.
	There is nothing that upsets a home, and
causes more discontent and dissatisfaction there-
in than the evil which we find very prevalent,
I regret to say, of scolding, fretting and fault-
finding. I have been in many homes where
everything was scrupulously neat and clean,
the members of the household were intelli-
gent and refined, and yet I have felt thankful
when my visit was ended and it was time to
leave the house. And why? Because the
mother (which is often the case) or some one
of the family, was scolding, fretting, or find-
ing fault with some one or something, until I
felt weary and glad to leave; otherwise I should
have enjoyed prolonging my visit, as ofttimes
the associations with the family and inter-
change of ideas was pleasant and agreeable.

[Column 3]
I do not fear to say that to a greater or less
degree this failing is indulged in the majority
of homes, and has been the cause of much
misery and unhappiness, for if a visitor of a
few hours can feel the unpleasant influence,
how much more effect must it have upon those
who daily experience it. As a natural conse-
quence, it deadens the sensitive feelings, hard-
ens the heart, and to a deplorable extent ban-
ishes love and unity of feelings from the home
circle in which it is indulged. I have known
instances where parents have wondered why
their children were desirous of leaving home,
why they seemed to find more pleasure in other
places than their own homes, when their pa-
rents would do almost anything to contribute
to their amusement. Mothers, the trouble lies
mainly in this fact that I have mentioned.
And often, quite often, very serious results have
occurred through this too prevalent, though
often unconcious error.
	So much depends upon the mother's influ-
ence, and next to her, the daughter's and sis-
ters in making the home pleasant and attrac-
tive, that I felt the subject would be a good
and suitable one for an essay for the Young
Ladies Association. And as the subject is an
important one, and one, too, that opens into a
field of thought that is almost endless, I trust
these few lines and the hints thrown out, may
spring forth and result in good to us all.
							M. H. T.


