BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	"Monday the 14th,	*	*	the pioneers
of the 2nd division met this morning at the
Council House to arrange themselves in com-
panies of tens, etc."
	Tuesday the 16th, fair weather.	*	*
Went by tnvitation with a number of the
band, to see a noted flute-player, McCay by
name, who professes to be a Choctaw Indian.
He performed on the flute-saucepan-etc.
	On the evening of the the 17th he men-
tions attending a meeting of the band, at
James Clayton's to make some arrangements
about a concert to be held at the Council
House, which came off the next evening. He
says, "I attended only a short time
not feeling well, afflicted with a se-
vere cold on my lungs, also in my
head. Brother Wm. Clayton did not attend,
in consequence of illness. He makes mention
of the scurvy which was so sorely afflicting the
Saints, many cases having proved fatal.
	"Sunday the 21st.	*	*	a large
number assembled at the sound of a bell, to
hear President Young give instructions, which
were good." Brother Kimball called his pri-
vate family together this evening and blessed
them to the number of thirty-six. My wife
and I did not attend, not feelin well,"
	A "Patriarchal Epistle," which father had
prepared, was read. It contained advice to


his eldest son, Wm., an adopted son,
Daniel Davis, concerning the bringing up of
the different families, and children that were
under his charge. The following were among
the designs, which he wished them to carry
out after he was gone.
	"In the first place, I want you should fit
out a wagon in the first order for your mother,
and see that she is supplied with everything
for her comfort, so that she may live in a re-
tired way, and take every method to throw off
every burden from her shoulders, and take it
upon yourselves, or cast it equally upon others
with yourselves.
	Also that Sarah Noon shall have a waggon by
herself and family. Also Sarah Whitney with
her family; and also Brother Howard Egan's
family; also James Smithies with his family.
And be particular that these families have a
bag of flour and, a bag of meal, put into
their own waggons; also meat and such articles
as are necessary for their convenience, that
they may not have reason to complain, or bor-
row of, or trouble each other. And when
their bags and stores are empty see that they
are filled. Be very particular to retain a
prayerful, meek and quiet spirit, that you can
have comforting words for your mother, sisters
and friends who are with you while attending
to their wants and necessities, that you may
prove a blessing to them, and a comfort and
consolation in very deed, and they will rise up
and bless you, and your hearts will rejoice, and
you will always be glad, and your Father in
heaven, and on earth will bless you, and it
will be a source of rejoicing to you forever,and
your sons and daughters in their turn, will
arise and bless and comfort you in like man-
ner.
	The same day my husband wrote, "my wife's
health quite poor yet, she is afflicted at present
with a severe cough,having taken a hard cold."
	On the 29th he mentions a number of the
brethren, who were going to remian behind, 
starting for the "Old Fort," ten miles above
there, for the purpose of putting in a crop,
and also a number of families, who were pre-
paring to remove to that place. The mill
commenced some time ago, is now about finished,
so that they are about ready to grind wheat,
corn, etc- He speaks of the boys "flying round"
and making ready to start for the Rocky
Mountains—says Brother Kimball has six
waggons fitted out ready loaded to start.
	Sunday, April the 4th, he mentions the call-
ing together of a portion of his father's and
my father's families—eleven persons in all—to
a meeting for prayer, and also for instruction
from father and Bishop Whitney. This was
held in the room occupied by my husband's
sister, Sarah Ann, next door to mine, and be-
ing now convalescent I was able to attend.
	My father recommended Bishop Whitney
to his family "as a worthy, good and exemplary
man," to counsel them in his absence, and
said there was "no person living in the world"
in whom he placed more confidence than he 
did in Brother Whitney, and there was no
person who would have so much influence in
his (father's) family in his absence. Many
things were said and much good instruction
given by both fathers, when the meeting was 
adjourned till evening.
	Agreeable to adjournment they met again in
the evening and conversed till about 9 o'clock;
when a prayer was offered up, father being
mouth. "Afterwards," Horace wrote, Brother
Kimball and father alternately blessed each
member of his family, and the meeting dis-
smissed about 11 o'clock, after having enjoyed
one of the happiest times (and apparently the
briefest) period in my existence."


