A LITTLE GIRL’S VIEW OF THE MOR-
		MON QUESTION.
I’m a daughter of Utah for here I was born;
I am gay and light-hearted, and bright as the morn.
I don’t quite remember the dreary old days
When crickets and grasshoppers, black ones and grays,
Ate up the potatoes, the barley and wheat,
And left the Pioneers very little do eat.

I can't say I know for myself, understand,
How their children went barefoot all over the land,
How meat was unknown for three-fourths of the year,
And frost took the corn ere it reached roasting ear,
How wild roots and berries were hunted for food,
And men went by twos with their guns after wood.

Before I was born all these things passed away:
Our fathers and mothers held starvation at bay,
They planted the shadetrees, the rattlesnakes killed,
And built some large granaries and got them well filled.
And railroads and telegraphs, too, they have made.
And of the poor Indians are no more afraid.

Schoolhouses and churches I see everywhere,
Wherever I turn all looks pleasant and fair;
The old folks are cheerful, after all they have done,
And the children, I tell you, are jolly as fun;
The good times we have can never be told,
Oh often I wish I might never grow old!

I mentioned schoolhouses—well I’ve learned to read—
For books and newspapers, I have a great greed;
But some things I read make me feel very sad.
For to leave a poor baby, all alone in the night,
On somebody’s doorstep, can never be right.

And when the folks living there wont take it in,
But send it on further, I think that's a sin;
And when of such children a hundred or more
Are sent to one place just built for the poor,
I think that the fathers and mothers out there
Are nothing like ours, and I’m glad I live here.

I read of poor children who live in the street,
Except what they beg for they've nothing to eat.
No parents or friends to surround them with care,
And only the raggedest clothing to wear;
And I wish, Oh I wish! they to Utah could come,
For I know in a week each would find a good home.

I’ve heard that some folks call the Mormons, a set
Of dreadfully wicked, bad people; and yet
I don't hear them quarrel and mention bad names,
Tell lies and the name of our Maker profane;
They work and they study, to God bow the knee,
And love boys and girls; and that satisfies me.
