THE PAY OF SINGERS.

	Mme. Nilsson, in a conversation with a friend,
recently discussed the earnings of soprano
singers. She said: 
	"You think the rate we are paid is extrava-
gant. I have had severe losses at times, but these
have nothing to do with the question are we
overpaid? Now, in the first place mon ami, we
are rare, we song birds. You can count all
the soprani of the first line on the fingers of
one hand. Now, take our kindred artist, the 
painter. He is not such a rare bird as a
soprano. If he is really good, and paints por-
traits in London or Paris, he makes from [symbol for pounds]10,-
000 to [symbol for pounds]20,000 a year. He is not only not
rare—he is numerous. What say you of your
Millais, Holl, Leighton, Herkomer, Ouless in
London; and Meissonnier, Carolus Dunran
and Cabanel, not to mention poor Bastien-Le-
page, in Paris, as well as Sargent and several
more? We singers are rare; we are competed
for; and according to your natural law of value,
fetch a high price, as would a fairly handsome
diamond. Such a one as is worth [symbol for pounds]300 or
[symbol for pounds]400 now, if there were only four or five in
the world, would fetch twenty, thirty thousand
—what you will. The singer cannot go on
singing in her dotage, as a painter can paint.
The working life of the artist on canvas is
fully twice as long as that of the singer, whose
voice or general health may break down any
moment. and who is exposed to risks in hurry-
ing from one engagement to another, from
which the painter is entirely free. As for me,
I lead a triangular life between London, Paris,
and the United States. All receive me charm-
ingly, and the Amerians always seem delight-
ed to see me again. But the life of a singer 
is made up of hard work, care and self-denial—
so far as I know—the absolute conditions of
achieving and sustaining a high professional 
reputation. One lives; as it were, in a glass
case."—Ex.


With a tender remembrance of that mag-
nificent women Helen Hunt Jackson, of Colo-
rado Springs, we record her demise. Mrs. 
Jackson died on the 12 of August in San
Francisco where she went for the benefit of
her health sometime previous. Mrs. Jackson
wrote over the signature of H. H. and is wide-
ly known as a journalist of rare merit. Her
last book is entitled "Ramona" and has been
spoken of by critics and reviewers as the best
novel by an American woman. Mrs. Jack-
son was a New England woman and her father
was one of the founders of Amhurst college,
Mass. During her two visits in this city we
had many interesting conversations, and she
expressed herself always as intensely interested
in all religions, especially anything new or
original and when it most concerned women.
She was one of the peculiarly rare women 
once whom having met, one can never for-
get.


