A FEW RFEECTIONS.

	THEY that feared the Lord spake often
one to another and the Lord hearkened and
heard and a book of remembrance was kept,
and they are mine saith the Lord when I
shall make up my jewels.
	These sweet and cheering words often as-
sist our desires and help us to perform our
duties amidst all our frailties and em-
barrassments.
	I have just been reading the 12th, 13th,
and 14th, Chapters of Romans. Verse 11—
chapter 13 reads, “And that knowing the
time, that now it is high time to awake
out of sleep; for now is our salvation
nearer than when we believed."
	Verse 12, chapter 14, “So then every one
of us shall give account of himself to God,”
this promps us truly to awake and to try to
be faithful in all things. I appeal to my-
self and to my sisters, to regard the sacred
teachings at our recent Conferences and


other meetings of late, is it not direct to us
from the Lord?
	Our brethren truly are watchmen upon
the walls, and we as Mothers in the Relief
Society have our duties, and they are not a
few, but many, for none of us liveth unto
himself or herself and each one has a por-
tim to bear and to endure. Verse 12,
Chapter 12, gives great encouragement
to the devout; it reads, “Rejoicing in hope;
patient in tribulation; continuing instant
in prayer;” let us my sisters be instant in
prayer, but to be so we must also keep al-
ways in good works, first to sanctify these
temples of ours; and to do our duties in the 
family relation, to implant integrity and
virtue in our children; this is most essential
the whole world over, and with what
zealous care should we guard our sons and
daughters, that they may abstain from vice
and folly of every kind. Intelligence is a
stronger safeguard than ignorance. How
profitable our prayer meetings were to us in
the rise of the Church, and again is not our
very strength strengthened by prayer, our
love increased, that we can do our duty and 
fulfill the law to love our neighbors as our-
selves. Let each Relief Society every where
pray to our Heavenly Father to protect our
youth from evil, temptation and sin. Joseph
Smith the Prophet said it was the calling of
the Relief Society to suppress vice. Let
us humble ourselves in prayer and good
works, to check vice and evil in every way,
and to encourage every good and noble
principle with cheerfulness trusting in God
for He will hear the humble supplications
of the meek and pure in heart; seek wis-
dom, treasure the gems of knowledge con-
cerning the truth that God has spoken from
the heavens to the inhabitants of the earth
again in this day and age of the world.
Was there ever a people on the earth that
was so thoroughly and kindly taught the
principles of salvation and righteousness,
that happify and satisfy the mortal and im-
mortal, as that we have received, the 
Gospel of Eternal life or lives.
	My dear sisters there are many profitable
sayings in Paul’s Epistle to the Romans,
that will bear reading again and again, and
that we can apply in our every day lives.
	I will close these reflections by referring
to the song—
“Nay! speak no ill, a kindly word,
	Will never leave a sting behind;
	And O. to breath each tale we’ve heard
	Is far beneath a noble mind.”
Z. D. H. Y.
Oct. 31--1894.


