A VERY PLEASANT VISIT.

Editor Exponent:

	WE take pleasure in submitting a brief
report of an exceedingly pleasant visit to
the branches of the Relief Society of the
Sanpete Stake of Zion.
	We left Ogden on the morning of Oct.
23, and arrived at Spring City shortly after
seven in the evening, where we were
cordially welcomed and pleasantly enter-
tained by Sister Mary A. Hyde widow of
the late Apostle Orson Hyde, She is
President of the Relief Society of the Stake
and though seventy-eight years of age we
find her remarkably well preserved, bright
and active in her duties, anxious to do, or
say anything to promote the cause of truth.
	Here we met Sister Minerva W. Snow
(widow of the late Apostle Erastus Snow)
who is also over seventy years of age, but
like Sister Hyde she is lively and energetic,
and a very useful woman in her calling as
first counselor to Sister Hyde. Sister Snow
is engaged in Temple work also and seems
to be very much respected by the people of
the Stake; and here we will state of Sister
Jane S. Richards the official visitor who
has gained much renown in Relief Society
work, that notwithstanding more than
seventy winters have come and gone leav-
ing traces of their presence, still they have
not blighted her life-giving energies, but
seem rather to have increased her capacities,
and opened avenues for doing good. Here
we have three noble women each wives of
Apostles, each over seventy years of age,
each presiding over Relief Society, Stake
organizations and each honoring her calling
in a praiseworthy manner.
	A very enjoyable part of our time was
spent in listening to the recital of the varied
experiences of these three exemplary wo-
men. Coming into the Church at an early
date they were privileged to come up with
the church through much tribulation.
Bravely and well have they borne their
cross and felt to exclaim "It is good to be a
Saint of Latter-day." In their early lives
they forsook worldly pleasures and ambi-
tions, choosing rather to honor God and His
cause "He hath not forgotten their age."
A beautiful example for the young ladies
of our day.
	At Sister Hyde's we became acquainted
with Sister Willardson President of the
Y. L. M. I. Association of the Stake. This
is an age marked for the lack of veneration,
but Sister Willardson is certainly an ex-
ception to the general rule. Much praise
is due her for her becoming manner in look-
ing after the comfort and welfare of the
elderly ladies; aided by her first counselor
Sister Cox they succeeded in making the ap-
pointments for meetings, introducing us in
homes where we were made comfortable,
and attending to the general business be-
sides driving a team from place to place
where there were no railroad connections.
They held meetings conjointly with the
Relief Society but always paid due rever-
ence to the senior society. They seemed to
seek motherly advice, and the mothers will
ever intercede Divine Grace in their behalf
that they may be made equal to every task.

[Column2]
We held meetings in Spring City, Mil-
burn, Indianola, Fairview, Moroni, Foun-
tain Green, Wales, Chester, and Ephriam.
The meetings were well attended, an excel-
lent spirit prevailed and much good instruc-
tion given which seemed to be well re-
ceived. The main subjects spoken upon
were "Honoring the Sabbath Day," "The
Healing Power," "Fasting and Prayer,"
Morality, Education of Girls, Duties of
Parents, Habits, etc.
	At Ephriam we had the pleasure of the
acquaintance of Brother Canute Peterson,
(President of the Stake) and his genial
companion. We partook of their hospitality
and enjoyed their company very much.
They are devoted to the cause and faithful
laborers in that part of the vineyard.
	By the courtesy of Sisters Snow, Peter-
son, and Willardson we were taken to
Manti; shown through the beautiful Temple,
had a view of its surroundings and the
country round about from the lofty towers
of the magnificent edifice, a scene never to
be forgotten; language would fail to ex-
press our feelings of gladness, or the
grandeur of that Holy Sanctuary, hence
we attempt no description but content our-
selves by saying like one of old "It is good
to be there."
	Time and space forbid our mentioning
names of our entertainers, Bishops of
wards, Presidents of various Associations
of the places we visited, but suffice it to
say that in each place we were treated with
the utmost courtesy, and we felt the genial
glow of welcome wherever we went which
has endeared the people of Sanpete to us
for we truly felt that there we met brothers
and sisters in very deed.

Respectfully,
R. E. MOENCH.
Ogden City, Nov. 4th, 1894.


[Column 1]
