SUFFRAGE FIGHT REOPENED.

	THE fall campaign of the Woman Suf-
fragists of New York was opened Thursday
Evening October 4th, by a meeting at No.
4 Lexington avenue. Lillie Devereux
Blake, the president, was in the chair, in-
troduced Mrs. Pitblado, who read a paper,
the subject of which she said was “Not
Things, but Women,” a perversion of the
World’s Fair motto, “Not Things but Men.”
In the reading Mrs. Pitblado paid tributes
to all the great women of the past and
present, telling in what particular walks of
life they had distinguished themselves.
She dwelt particularly upon the women of
this country, and gave some sketches of the
women who were actively interested in the
World’s Fair work.
	It remained for Lillie Devereux Blake to
make the sensation of the evening by her
telling speech on the action of the mem-
bers of the Constitutional Convention on
the question of Woman’s Suffrage. She
began by saying:—
		THEY WERE HOPEFUL.
	“When the last meeting was held in
these rooms in June we all bade each other
goodby with hopeful hearts, for we all felt
certain that we would have to hold but one
more meeting, and that would be for the
purpose of adjourning forever. We felt
that the cause for which we had worked so
earnestly would be successful, and that we
would henceforth be on an equality with
men, and have the right to cast our vote in
the affairs of the State.
	“Alas, we were mistaken! Our cause
was defeated, but not lost.
	“Do not believe but we shall yet succeed,
and we shall fight until we win. We will

[Column 2]
now carry this petition to the Legislature 
and there we are sure to win a victory. I 
have here petitions which I want you all to
take home and send among your friends
that name upon name may be added to the
hundreds of thousands already sent.
	"As soon as the measure had been ad-
versely voted on by the majority of the
members of the Convention the newsboys
of Albany run through the streets crying
out, “Woman’s suffrage murdered!” and,
my friends, it was murdered, it never died
a natural death. It was murdered by Elihu
Root and Joseph Choate.
		SCORED ELIHU ROOT.
	“When Elihu Root made his speech
against woman suffrage he asked the mem-
bers of the Convention if they wanted to
put the ballot in the weak and nervous arms
of women He could say nothing against
the cause, for there was nothing to say; he
only talked and talked and repeated his
question about the weak, nervous arms of
women. I was not aware before that it re-
quired physically strong arms to lift the
folded ballot and deposit it in the box.
	“I wondered if we had all been women
of the iron jaw sort if he would have
thought that a reason for giving us the
right of the ballot. Although we had the
best men of both parties with us, we were
defeated.
	‘‘The majority of those who voted
against us were republicans, while the
democrats stood by us nobly. The majority
of the convention was republican. We
have been asked as an association to help
defeat a certain party in this town. We
are good enough to help defeat men and
measures, but not good enough to help
elect them.
	“Now, I want to say right here, that we
are not going to work against any party.
If we work for any party, it will be for the
one that worked for us.
	Mrs. Blake read a set of resolutions offer-
ing a vote of thanks to the members of the
Convention who voted for and spoke in
favor of woman suffrage.—New York
Herald.


