XLIII.

	THE fact of the children’s company and
Clair Hilliard the favorite, their guest,
modified to Mr. and Mrs. Harrison the
hardship of leaving the green lanes of
England, and of the sea voyage later on;
 Clair’s brilliant conversation, his versatility
of subjects, (his slight foreign accent
making him all the more interesting) above
all his wonderful voice, that never failed to
thrill the listener, and such charms of man-
ner as are specially delightful, and what
can be more so than the magic of music.
The poet was right in saying,
“Music hath charms to soothe the savage breast,
To soften rocks or bend a knotted oak.
I’ve read that things inanimate have moved,
And as with living souls have been informed
By magic numbers and persuasive sound.”
All who have ever crossed the briny
deep, or sailed athwart the bosom of the 
restless sea, must know how rapturously
the human soul is thrilled with the soft
sweet strains divine, that move the human
heart to its very depths, and cause it
	To soar aloft on wings, of ecstacy,
	Lost in the dreams of pure felicity.
	Clair had inherited the talent of that
talian singer, who had carried captive bril-
liant and appreciative audiences wherever
she appeared in p.ublic. The only defect
Jane Harrison could find in her charming
cousin was his peculiarly, languid, Southern
manner and temperament, which to the
true-born English woman is not par ex-
cellence, in that it lacks the heroic quality
of strength so admirable in man. Day
after day and night succeeding night, Clair 
played and sung, sometimes in language
not understood, but sympathetic in rhythm
and suited to his mood, to the enraptured
listeners on board the good ship Darien.
He never wearied of the children either but
tended and watched over them with gentle
solicitude. Rob Harrison was in most re-
spects the very opposite of Clair Hilliard
strong and stalwart in figure and bearing,
and a veritable hero of battles in the proud
chivalry of knighthood, which makes a man
more attractive in the eyes of women than
tamer qualities, however excellent. He 
loved children but could not unbend to
them, and had not the adaptability that
seemed so natural to Clair.
	Another distinct type of manhood was
exemplified in Sidney Barrington, who was
as useful in his way as Clair, and these two
young men so widely different had already
become fast friends. He preached occasional
sermons not long and wearisome but plain
and scriptural, and his prayers were eloquent
with fervor and simplicity. His conver-
sation was in striking contrast to his uncle,
and the young Baronet, but fitted in deftly,
setting off their greater brilliancy to good
advantage with the grave, more serious,
and somewhat pathetic truths of everyday
life and its high duties.
	What a grand opportunity this sea voyage
was for a mind like Jane Harrison’s, and
how she feasted her soul and drank in the
variety and volume of knowledge as it fell
like clear cut diamonds from the lips of
these thorough-bred highly-cultivated men.
it stamped her soul indelibly with lofty
sentiments', that could not fail to be inherit-
ed in her posterity, though of this she
thought not, nor had the awakening come
which has since developed such far reach


[Column 1]
ing consequences. The glorious evenings
when the stately ship sailed ever onward,
the murmur of the ever restless sea, and the
silvery tones of delicious music floating
over the vast expanse of waters, the pale
moon shedding its healing, lustreless rays of
calm serenity, and the million stars set like
jewels in the firmament made a picture set
to music which was in siriking contrast to
the stirring events of her past life. But
when the ocean waves rose mountains high,
and the great ship reeled and plunged, and
the sea bounding and roaring tumultuously
as though the demons of the depths below
were exulting hilariously at the raging of
the elements, she knew no fear; it seemed
the very counterpart of the stormy and ag-
gressive years of her life when she lived at
Hilliard Castle. Now she had entered on
another phase in the wonderful drama of
earthly existence, and it is not strange that
she contemplated with inward anxiety the
destiny of the beings so much beloved who
hovered around her, and looked up to her
as though she were the keeper of their
consciences.
	Her cousin Clair's future she could not
solve; it was enveloped in doubt, he had
met many beautiful maidens, but his heart
she felt was still untouched by the magic
wand of love. Sidney her husband's
nephew (who called her Aunt Jane now,
like Anna's children) would undoubtedly
marry a sweet, angelic, Puritan girl, and
never leave the country of his adoption;
and there was Maitland too, she thought of
him almost with terror; O how Anna had
loved him, her imperious consin, and here
were his children, what would their fate be?
She sometimes longed to know, yet scarcely
dare conjecture. Her own boy, her be-
loved Conway, he would always be under
her sheltering care, and possibly follow the
profession of his father, for even now
she could preceive the drift of his boyish
pursuits tended in that direction.
	What a brave grand, true woman she
was this erst, uninteresting, orphaned, poor
clergyman's daughter.
	When the llttle party reached the New
England shore Clair could not believe his
cousin Jane really felt the joy she expressed,
his nature was so different; he had
wandered up and down and round about in
many lands, but never to think of any
place as home not even temporarily, Hil-
liard Castle was very well while his friends
were there, and he newly installed, but to go
there and live alone, and be like other
English gentlemen he could not do that.
	"Cousin Jane this is too cold a climate
and the wilderness all around is like a
desolation to me, I must have more life,
more warmth, I can't stand these Puritans,
I don't mean Sidney, he is companionable,
but even Uncle Rob is getting common-
place in this dull country, and though I
love the children (and sort of idolize my
cousin, excuse the term,) yet I'm afraid I
can't stay here long and I want to ask your
advice, which I shall prlze even more than
Uncle Rob's, because you are so proud of
the Hilliard honor, and so conscientious
in all you say and do, and I suppose I have
more claim upon you really than any living
person, as you were in my father's con-
fidence, and though he never acknowledged
me during his life, I should be glad to do
credit to the name, and there is no one to
look to but you—those musty old lawyers
in London, always eye me suspiciously,
and I have no very clear views of my
own."

[Column 2]
	This wail of Clair's was made one morn-
ing at the breakfast table, Mr. Harrison
and Sidney had gone out on horseback in
the early morning and Clair, as usual, had
come down late and out of sorts; his cousin
Jane was always very attentive and had
noticed of late his dissatisfied manner, and
therefore was not surprised that he should
express a desire to go away; to be sure she
had hoped he would become reconciled to
the new conditions, and accept the faith
which had been such an inspiration to her
and comfort to Lady Anna, but she felt it
was right he should make his own choice
after all, and replied accordingly.
	"My dear cousin whatever course you
decide upon whether to settle down here,
after winding up your affairs in England,
or to live upon the estate there, or to travel
in foreign lands until like your uncle Rob
you weary of it all, or if you feel your
mother's sunny land nearer and dearer, I
shall always hold you dear to my heart and
give you a mother's advice, for you are my
nearest relative now, and for my uncle's
sake who was my protector and my best
friend in adversity, I must strive to aid you
in upholding the family name; but before
I can say more, tell me what you long for
most in life?"
	"I think my greatest ambition at present
is to get away from here, I am doing noth-
ing, I cannot even sing, my sister Anna's
grave is a perpetual source of sorrow and a
reminder of what might have been had she
lived; I must go away—I know the busi-
ness of the estate is in need of better
management, can't we all go and live there,
it seems to me that would be best!"
	"You know Clair my husband would
never live at Hilliard Castle, and as for my-
self I am a Puritan in every sense of the
word, though not so pronounced in some
particulars as my neighbors. I am not an
aristocrat though my uncle and my grand-
father bore distinguished titles; I have the
Hilliard blood inherited from my mother,
but I have not forgotton that she was dis-
inherited for marrying a poor clergyman,
and lived and died in obsenrity."
	Clair replied "you speak bitterly cousin
and I have no reason to laud the aristocracy,
my fault was not my own, I could scarcely
have helped being born, it seems there is a
bond of sympathy between us even more
than blood, and now I plead with you to
show me what I ought to do for the estate,
to make amends for my coming unwelcome
into the word."
	"Really cousin that is too much of a
sarcasm, and you are well aware of your
sister Anna's amiability in the affair, never
arguing the question of your claims to the
heirship; you may be in ignorance of the
fact that my uncle was crossed in love,
previous to his marriage with your mother
and that it affected his whole life afterwards,
were I to tell you the whole history of the
affairs of Sir Edward your father, as they
have come to my knowledge unsought, you
would find it, "a romance in real life."
	"And cousin Jane don't you think it
right for me to know something of my
parentage more than the name and title,
uncle Rob knew Sir Edward Hilliard very
well but would never speak of him, I could
get no information from him while we were
away together, try as I might. Indeed I
have been thinking seriously of going to
Italy and looking up on my mother's side,
I only knew my grandmother; Burke and
Hemenway advised me not to hunt up my
Italian relationship, it might go against me

[Column 3]
in England they thought, especially if I
should want to enter Parliament, which I
never will, I have neither taste or inclina-
tion for it, and my education is all wrong
for that course, in fact I'm more of a
foreigner."
	"Well Clair if you decide to leave us I
perhaps ought to enlighten you somewhat
about my uncle, it might soften you
in regard to your birth and the secret of
your mother's marriage, so carefully kept
during his whole life. But here comes the
strollers we must hear of their morning ad-
ventures."
	Just then Mr. Harrison and Sidney came
in and the conversation then turned upon
Clair's leaving America very soon, Sidney
who was strongly attached to Clair regretted
it exceedingly, but Mr. Harrison thought
perhaps under the changes which seemed
imminent to the country it might be the
wisest course to pursue; he declared there
would soon be a fierce struggle between
England and America, and although Clair
was scarcely an Englishman he did not seem
to incline to the new world, "Clair is not a
warrior bold," he added "in his case it
might be better to run away before the
fight begins, for its sure to come to that,"
and said he with great emphasis "I'm
willing to die for freedom and liberty."


