WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
U. W. P. C.  
	ACCORDING to a special call the Utah
Woman’s Press Club held a business meet-
ing at the office of President E. R. Shipp
on Tuesday evening, Oct. 30th, 1894, the
object being the annual election of officers.
	Most of those in office having served
but one year, were re-elected, thus making
but few changes in the list. They are now
as follows—
	Honorary President, E. B. Wells;
President, E. R. Shipp M. D., First Vice
President, Ruth M. Fox; Second Vice
President, Lydia D. Alder; Recording
Secretary, Lizzie S. Wilcox; Asst. Rec.
Secretary, Ella W. Hyde; Cor. Sec. R. B.
Pratt M. D.. Ass’t Cor. Sec., Olea Shipp.
Treasurer, C. C. R. Wells; Auditor, Phebe
C Young. Dr. E. B. Ferguson, Chairman
Program Committee,

[Column 2]
	The regular meeting of the U. W. P.
Club was held on Wednesday, Oct. 31st,
and as that is anniversary day and also
Halloween, it has been the custom to have
the regular program set aside, and a special
one prepared for the occasion. There have
been some unique and pleasing entertain-
ments in the past, but it is thought the last
one rather surpassed former efforts.
	Each member present endeavored either
by costume or symbol, to represent some
author or literary character she had chosen.
In answer to her name, she arose, and the
other members or visitors made a guess as
to the character represented, the guess be-
ing confirmed or otherwise by the senti-
ment given or the selection read.
	History, literature and fable w[-]re repre-
sented. In some cases the costumes were
original and striking, and in some in-
stances beautiful.
	The characters represented were as fol-
lows:—Dr. E. R. Shipp, Portia, in judicial
robes, where she makes her speech before
the judge, beginning “The quality of mercy
is not strained,” etc. Mrs. Ruth M. Fox,
dressed in various gaudy colors, which is
said to be characteristic of Dickens, her
author, represented Sergeant Buzfuz. Miss
Gladys Woodmansee, Hypatia, in Roman
Costume. Mrs. Ella W. Hyde adorned
with fern leaves and fern covered fan,
represented Fanny Fern. Dr. R. B. Pratt, 
dressed as a nun, read from Longfellow’s
Evangeline; and by a coincidence Mrs.
Phebe C. Young and Lizzie S. Wilcox chose
to represent Lucile as a nun, even hitting
upon the same selection for reading. But
the matter was remedied by one of the
ladies choosing another selection. Mrs. C.
C. R. Wells in white attire, represented
Wilkie Collins “Woman in White.” Mrs.
Minnie J. Snow as Mrs. Hemans, sang
very sweetly a song of that lady’s pro-
duction. Mrs. C. Louise Boyden, by a
symbol represented Browning, and recited
with much dramatic force Mrs. Browning’s
“Mother and Poet.” Mrs. Lucy A. Clark,
with powdered hair, lace cap, and imitation
snowflakes, represented Mrs. Eliza R.
Snow, with appropriate selections. Mrs.
Melissa Wilson, with white gown and flow-
ing hair represented Perdita from Shakes-
pere, “A Winter’s Tale.” Mrs. E. J.
Stevenson, with full blown roses, repre-
sented “Rose in Bloom.” Mrs. Nellie C.
Taylor gave a pleasing representation of
Lucretia Mott in her quaint and simple
Quaker garb. Miss Olea Shipp revived
pleasant memories by appearing as the
Bohemian Girl, and playing choice selec-
tions from that opera. Miss Ellis Shipp
looked picturesque in her cream-colorad
gown bedecked with birds and feathers of
brilliant hue, as she recited Longfellow’s
“Birds of Killingworth.” Miss Pearl
Russell was very sweet as Little Red Rid-
inghood and she gave a charming little
solo from that opera.
	After the character delineations, a sum-
mary of the year’s work by Mrs. L. D.
Alder showed that progress had been made
and improvement was still sought.
	The formal part of the program being
ended, refreshments and social chat ensued.
Both visitors and members felt they had
spent a pleasant and profitable evening: the
one regret being the absence, through sick-
ness, of Honorary President E. B. Wells,
whose presence contributes so much to the
success and pleasure of the meetings.
