HARMONY IN LINE AND COLOR.

	WERE I an artist with an artist touch I
might give this subject the justice it de-
mands, might clothe it in beautiful words
as an artist could in beautiful colors, might
show the curves and lines, hues and tints
in all their elegance and grandeur. All
beautiful things are the creations of nature
or art; and all natural things have some
claims to beauty; who can watch a sunset,
where the clouds are tinged with mellow
light, a flower sun-kissed into beauty, a
tree taking on the autumn tints of scarlet
and gold, or hear the murmuring brook
singing its never wearying song of praise
and thanks-giving for light, and air, and
freedom, and not feel, that in nature are
the truly beautiful, that which pleases the
eye, and satisfies the soul. We pass from
flower and rock and tree to the great mas-
terpiece of creation—Man. If there is
beauty in the shapeless rock or shapely
flowers, how much greater the beauty in
the straight lines, the rounded curves of the
contour of the human form, as left by the
Master’s hand. God made all the works of
his hand beantiful, but man by the use of
his art has caused to become distorted and
mis-shapen that beautiful human form.
The study of the relation of line and form,
color and complexion, open delightful pos-
sibilities, in the grace and manner of dress.
The proper clothing of the human form,
in becoming and graceful attire, is a study
which has been left too much to the dic-
tates of fashion, and the whims of the
dress-maker. How ever desirable the im-
provements proposed, or how ever salutary
the effects of the improvement there is in
the human nature an inertia that resents
disturbances from accustomed methods, or
fixed habits. It is easier to be regardless
of the pernicious effects of the present
habits of dress than to seek to improve. It
is easier to go on distorting the body, break-
ing down the health, and afflicting the
spirit, by wearing the clothes prescribed by
fashion than to exert one’s self to over-
come the defects caused by art, and labor to
restore the body, to its normal state and
rightful beauty. Till woman will allow
herself to think and be educated to this
higher stand, she can see no beauty in the
natural form. The eye has so long been ac-
customed to see the slender waist, the
clinging drapery showing the form, that it
is considered a type of beauty. How dif-
ferent is this present style from the beauti-
ful draping of the form by the Grecian, or
the Venecians, whose clothing was so con-
structed that they clothed themselves with
modesty and honor.
	With few exceptions all natural forms of

[Column 2]
acknowledged beauty are composed of
curves. The greater the unity in the
curves of the human body, the greater the
beauty of the whole. Any sudden pro-
jection any sharp angle is in the highest de-
gree contrary to beauty. A woman with
an hour-glass shape has no claim to
beauty nor were she properly educated
could she see any beauty in such form.
When women learn what a beautiful body
really is, the corset will not even be con-
sidered, for there is positively nothing to
recommend it, either as a means of beauty
or health, no woman can be truly grace-
ful and wear it. A slender person is made
more slender by its use, and all the beauti-
ful curves, are straightened out of sight,
which is not the object desired, and. if a
stout woman fondly imagine she looks
smaller, she is most certainly mistaken as
it simply crowds the flesh to another place,
making the hips larger, and the shoulders
square and higher, and exaggerates all the
curves till they are positively unpleasant to
look at.
	A woman to be beautiful must be grace-
ful and to be graceful requires that all the
muscles of the figure have full, free action.
The body should be clothed in such man-
ner that the robes fall gracefully from the
neck down. There should be no waist
line show, as there is positively no waist-
line in the human body. The dress should
be so constructed as to suggest a modest
covering that shows the natural curves and
graceful lines of the body; woman should
abandon the skin-tight gowns, and plan
something that is graceful and free and
that will hang from the shoulders. In the
selection of material for dress, much de-
pends on the size and form and complexion
of the wearer. If a woman is tall she
should select those tints of color, and styles
of make, which will harmonize with her
complexion and height. She will best
adopt such forms as will not increase the
look of height.
	Small delicate women will select styles
and material which increase the look of
size. They may wear light colored fabrics
very beautiful in themselves but with little
trimming and that choice. A large grace-
ful woman should clothe herself in soft
rich stuffs of such color as not to increase
the look of size. Tall women should avoid
stripes, short ones should avoid plaids.
Dress should be made decorative as well as
necessary. It is a woman’s duty to dress
becomingly, at all times, and as well as
her circumstances will allow. Much taste
can be shown in the wearing of clothing
be the material never so poor. Where a
style of dress is particularly becoming, it
should be adopted without regard to fashion,
in as much as it is comfortable and health-
ful. Any costume which is suggestive of
stiffness cannot be beautiful. As the body
should have the free use of all the mus-
cles, grace of motion is a finer quality than
faultless proportion, and shonld never be
sacrificed to it. A woman may have a bad
form,but she can so fashion her wearing ap-
parel, as to make herself graceful. No woman


with a proper regard for the beautiful, will
allow herself to follow a fashion which not
only deprives her of grace, but of that
greater necessity—health.
