NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE Countess of Aberdeen, during her
recent visit to Halifax gave an “At Home”
and garden party on the magnificent
grounds of the official residence of the Ad-
miral commanding the British squadron in
North American waters. It was the most
brilliant and successful affair of the kind
ever held there. The feature of the func-
tion was the entire absence of wines and
liquors. This is the first time in Canadian
history that the wife of the Governor-Gen-
eral has held a reception without dispensing
liquors, and marks a new era in Canadian
high social life.—Ex.
	FANNITZA ABDUE SULTANA NALIDE is
a fine-looking girl from Beyrout, now
staying at a quiet residence in Brooklyn,
She is the cousin of the wealthiest Arab in
that far-off city, and is known among her
countrymen as “the Syrian princess.” On
the books at Harvard she will be entered as
Miss Alice Azeez, and her object in coming
to this country is manifold. She wishes to
obtain educational honors both here and in
England, and while in America will study
the government, the people, and occidental
methods of doing things. Having done so,
she will return to Syria, where she will
found a monument to the memory of her


father. Her family has for centuries been
a ruling force in the Orient. Miss Azeez
though only 19 years of age, has mastered
the Arabian, Assyrian, Grecian, Latin,
French, German and English languages.
Specimens of her needlework adorn the
shelves of the Metropolitan Museum of
Art, in New York City, and the Peabody
Museum, at Cambridge, Mass.
	SENATOR SCOTT, of Iola, in his Register
pays the following eloquent and merited
tribute to Mrs. Chapman-Catt, one of the
most brilliant exponents of the principle
of woman suffrage.
	We didn’t report Mrs. Catt’s speech last
week simply because we did’nt want to
mention it the same week with the others.
It was a magnificent speech, the strongest
most entertaining and logical appeal for
equal suffrage ever made in Iola. And it
was so choicely worded, so smoothly and
eloquently delivered that her hearers were
charmed as well as instructed and con-
vinced. The speech was full of good
points, but the one that struck us as par-
ticularly well taken was the proposition that
if there is to be any restriction placed on
suffrage, it should begin at the bottom. “If
you don’t want foreign women to vote,
then don’t let foreign men vote. You will
get the best government when you let the
good, the patriotic and the educated wo-
men come to the aid of the good, the
patriotic and the educated men.” We are
sure that if a motion had been put to the
audience that Mrs. Catt be granted the
right of suffrage, it would have carried by
a large majority.—Ex.


