AN APPEAL TO WOMEN.

	THE November election on which so
much depended for the future good and
well being of Utah has come and gone, the
votes have been cast for the men nominated
to office; the winning side is very exultant
as a consequence and naturally enough made
itself hilariously jubilant at the ratification
meetings and procession on the 13th, of
this month. The most important matter
decided at the election, at least for women
who are asking for the franchise, was the
election of Delegates to the Constitutional
Convention; and indeed it does seem that
it was the more important to all the people
of the Territory. These are the men who
hold the future destiny of this glorious
mountain region in their grasp for a time
at least. What manner of men should they
be to occupy so responsible a position?
First of all honest, truthful, upright, God-
fearing men, patriotic to the heart’s core,
sound in judgment, firm in integrity to
their country’s cause, as the everlasting
hills. Men who honor womanhood, men
who are progressive in all directions that
advance the interests of the human race,
men who are above partisanship, who be-
lieve in equality and justice for all regard-
less of the conditions of sex.
	From this time forward it should be their
sacred duty to inquire into the subjects
with which they will have to deal when
they enter upon the active performance of
their labors as framers of a Constitution.
They must come prepared, or success will
not crown their efforts, strive as they may;
they owe this to the people, who have
chosen them from among their fellows, and
the country they serve, and whose interests
they are bound to sustain, by the laws they
may help to make for future use, service,
and protection of rights.
	Every daughter of Utah should be as
zealous for liberty and as proud of the
birthright upon her soil as her sons; and
should understand the obligations of her
heritage and maintain that dignity and
equality in common with her brothers,
seeking to comprehend all the grave ques-
tions at issue, that she may be fully equip-
ped for the use of the ballot, and the ad-
vantages that accrue therefrom to all those
who take part in the political questions
that agitate the general public, more par-
ticularly at a time like the present when
uncertainty and doubt seem to cause even
great men and strong men to hesitate and
fluctuate, scarce knowing what is the best
policy to pursue, or what measures—to
adopt.

[Column 2]
	There never has been a time when wo-
men need be so awakened to public duty
as the present, not only here but every-
where; it is the cry of the age, and we hear
from day to day, lo here, and lo there, what
brave women are doing in battling against
wrong.
	Then shall we, who have such grave
matters pending fall asleep, and be at ease,
leaving the molding of our own and our
children’s lives and fortunes to men alone?
Verily, No! the mother element is needed in
the new Constitution about to be made, the
womanly intuition so quick to discern, so
prophetic and so inspirational should be
brought to bear in all possible ways. It is
a pity that all the women of this fair Ter-
ritory do not stand solid for the right of
franchise as Mrs. Livermore has so aptly
and emphatically said, “I lack language in
which to express my sense of reprobation
of the course pursued by those women who
from their soft and easy homes, where they
are anchored in the love of manly husbands,
enter the arena of public life only to beat
back their sisters, who seek larger op-
portunities than suffice for themselves; who
make their own opinions and wishes the
measure of all women’s needs, and cry out
to legislatures and courts, parliaments and
congresses; ‘Hold, enough! Concede to wo-
men no more of their demands, for we have
all the rights we want.”
	But circumstances sometimes change;
women who sit in luxury and at ease now,
may at some future time need for their own
defence and protection, or mayhap for their
little ones, the right they would now fain
deny to those less fortunate.
	The women of Utah had the ballot
wrested from them without adjudication,
and no redress has ever been offered for
that wrong. It would be but a simple act
of justice for that wrong done in the past,
to restore the right of franchise now. At
any rate so far as we are concerned
individually and with the largest influence
possible to exert, we shall work, and pray
upon the affirmative.
	We are proud to believe, that Delegates
who will constitute the coming Convention
will honor the women of the State, by
bestowing upon them this precious boon
which represents so much to every citizen,
and of which not one of these Delegates
would be deprived without protest or hav-
ing recourse to the law. To us there seems
no other reasonable side to this question;
if "taxation without representation is
tyranny” then women are suffering from
that tyranny. We are living today in the
higher civilization, and the greater advanc-
ment depends as much upon women as up-
on men. The learned and great Canon
Kingsley said, "Never will women have
social equity, till they have legal equality.”
At least give the women of Utah this op-
portunity to test their fidelity to the state
they have helped to make out of the barren
desert. Victor Hugo’s prophecy is daily
coming to its fulfillment "the nineteenth
century belongs to woman.”
	Women should not lose one advantage,
but work tactfully and industriously, the
cause is worthy of the best directed and
most earnest endeavors. Lose no time in
converting by the most sublime reasoning
or persuasive eloquence all within your
reach who will lend a listening ear. Make
every strenuous effort possible to educate the
general public, circulate suffrage literature
among your neighbors and friends, Re-

[Column 3]
member even after the Constitution is
adopted by the Convention it has to be
voted upon, and if you can convince one
man, to vote right on this momentous
question, the labor will not have been in
vain.


