		S. L. CO. W. S. A.
	S. L. Co. W. S. A., held its regular
meeting in the Fourteenth Ward, Sept. 18,
President Elizabeth MacFarlane in the
chair. Sang, “Do what is right.” Prayer
E. M. Price. A motion was made and
carried, that we hold an informal meeting. 
Very interesting and instructive impromptu 
remarks were made by several of the ladies
and much information gleaned. Adjourned
’till October. 

S. L. Co W. S. A.  Meeting held Oct.


16th, in the Fourteenth Ward Hall. Presi-
dent E. MacFarlane in the chair. Sang,
“New America.” Prayer by Ruth M.
Fox. Roll called and minutes of Sept.
read and approved. Second Vice President
E M. Price read from the Woman's Column
the article entitled “A war upon Woman.”
Made many good remarks. Dr. Ferguson
spoke upon Home Industry, thought it
ought to be much better sustained, referred
to the sewing class established by Mrs.
Jennings, said merchants had promised to
take the work, if we could compete with
the Eastern market; also spoke upon the
responsibility resting upon those who will
take part in framing the Constitution, we
should not allow party feeling to interfere
at all in this great undertaking. Alluded to
the need of women in prisons where wo-
men were committed for offences, thought
there should be matrons in all jails and such
like institutions. Mary E. Bassett was in
favor of what Dr. Ferguson had said, also
thought that capital punishment was right.
	Ruth M. Fox thought she would like to
study both sides of the political question
before she could decide which party she
could vote with, thought if we could have
some one like Dr. Ferguson to teach us, we
should learn qnicker. Third Vice Presi-
dent Julia Druce was in favor of Capital
Punishment, “A life for a life” the Bible
says. Ella Hyde was not afraid to state
she was a Democrat, did not like protection
unless all could be protected. President
McFarlane thanked Dr. Ferguson for giv-
ing us such a very able address. Thought
more ladies who were well posted should
attend these meetings and give us the bene-
fit of their intelligence. Adjourned ’till
November.
