		SCIENTIST.

	Dr. Hermann Ludwig Ferdinand
von Heumhoitz, the celebrated German
scientist, the searcher in physics and
physiology, the acknowledged Edison of
the Old World, and the inventor of a score
of instruments which have revolutionized
the surgery of the eye, died recently at
Berlin.
	Helmholtz was born in Potsdam August
31, 1821, and at the age of seventeen en-
tered the Royal Military School in Berlin
and studied medicine there until 1842.
	Professor Helmholtz holds a high place
in medical and scientific circles in Germany
and is famous for his investigations in
optics, acoustics and electricity, which have
established these sciences on a new basis.
The ophthalmoscope is his invention, and
he was regarded as the founder of modern
eye surgery.
	For several years Herr Helmholtz had
devoted himself to the study of electricity,
and his work in this direction was equally
as important as his work in other sciences.
That he was held in the highest esteem by
scientists the world over was shown by the
statement made by a member of the French
Academy during a discussion which in-
volved Professor Helmholtz’s admission to


foreign membership in that body. “You
will place yourselves in the worst light be-
fore the world,” said the Frenchman, “if
you refuse to admit Helmholtz, the fore-
most and greatest naturalist of the age;
nothing is wanting to his glory, but he is
wanting to ours.” Dr. Helmholtz made a 
visit to this country last summer and took
part in the Electrical Congress at the
World’s Fair. On his way home from
Chicago he remained a few days in New
York and delivered an interesting lecture
at the College of Physicians and Surgeons
on ophthalmology
	As an author Professor Helmholtz was
voluminous. His great work which gave
him fame was On the Conservation of
Forces, issued in 1847. Other works were
Manual of Physiological Optics and Theory
of the Impressions of Sound. His Popular 
Lectures on Scientific Subjects, translated
into English by Dr. E. Atkinson, were 
published in London in 1873, and his work
on Sensations of Tone as a Physiological
Basis for the Theory of Music, translated
from the Third German edition by Alexan-
der J. Ellis, appeared in 1875. Professor
Helmholtz also contributed to scientific
journals accounts of many of his experi-
ments in acoustics, optics and electricity.
On December 1st, 1873, the Copley medal
of the Royal Society of London was
awarded to him in recognition of his emi-
nent services to science. More than 120
scientific papers of his have been read be-
fore the Royal Society. In 1883 the Ger-
man Emperor acknowledged the great ser-
vices of Helmholtz by issuing a decree
raising him to “the status of nobility.”
