OUR TRIP TO UINTAH.

	In connection with Sisters M. A. Freeze
and May Anderson having been called to
visit the sisters organizations in Uintah
Stake, also Wasatch Stake, we left our home
Wednesday Morning September twelfth, 
took the eight o’clock train for Park City,
arriving there before eleven oclock. En-
joyed the ride very much up Parley’s Canon;
we expected to hold meeting in Park City
but were disappointed because of the Bishop
and Counselors being absent from home.
Brother Oakes, our teamster, not reaching 
until evening, we could not leave for Heber
until morning, we met with very kind 
friends who did all they could for us put-
ting up at Brother and Sister Rasband’s;
when we arose next morning the snow was
about two inches deep which did not look
very encouraging, but we started traveling
through a twelve mile canyon, then entered
the beautiful little valley of the Wasatch;
we were very kindly received, but were
discouraged on every hand, about going to
Ashley in the storm, but be assured we did
not feel like returning, until our mission
was filled. Thursday afternoon a Stake 
Conference was appointed for Monday,
which we expected to attend on our return, 
but waiting for the weather to clear up so
as to proceed on our journey. Friday our
friend Brother Brown, of Charleston, took
us to visit the warm-springs at Midway, of
which there are many, in pot shape, one
being a very large one. Saturday after-
noon we held three meetings in Midway,

[Column 2]
Relief Society, Young Ladies’ and Pri-
mary, we did have an excellent time; 
Bishop Watkins and wife entertaining us
very kindly. Sunday we attended two ex-
cellent meetings in Charleston, putting up
at Bishop Nymphas Murdock’s, had a splen-
did visit	Monday we attended three
meetings in the stake house, in Heber
City, the building certainly is a credit to
the place; President Hatch attended the
afternoon meeting and treated us so kindly.
Many a noble Saint did we find in Wasatch
Stake, Brother Bridge and wife did all in 
their power to make our stay pleasant, also
Brother and Sister Brown, Sister Emma
Brown is the Stake President. Tuesday
eighteenth, the weather having cleared up
and Brother Oakes, our teamster’s children
having sufficiently recovered, we left Heber
for Vernal, Brother and Sister Brown ac-
companying us, which we appreciated very
much; we ascended over the top of the
Wasatch mountain through a fourteen
mile canyon, then through Strawberry
valley on through the roughest roads that
could be imagined a continual going up
and down mountains, crossing rivers four
times, also the bad lands and well may they
be called “bad lands” for sixty miles not
a sage brush or a grease wood, yet our
teamster knowing the road so well, managed
each night to find a nice camping ground.
	Friday night we camped on the east
side of Fort Du Chesne on the river’s
edge.
	Saturday, twenty-second, one o’clock
p. m., we arrived in Ashley and found 
many warm hearted Saints to greet us, but
regretted very much to find Brother Oakes, 
our teamster’s father, very ill. Sunday
we attended the Relief Society Conference,
two meetings, crowded houses. Monday
the Young Ladies’, Tuesday the Primary
Association; after the afternoon session, we 
organized a W. S. Association with Sister 
Stringam as President an excellent spirit
prevailed throughout, we also blessed
several sick and did all that we could to
comfort and bless, but we regretted very
much that our stay could not be longer,
among those good true Latterday Saints
that know so well how to appreciate the
blessings of the Gospel, being so far away
from the Center Stake. Uintah County is
situated in a beautiful little valley eight by
twenty miles with Greene and Ashley
rivers running through; the climate is ex-
cellent and the products cannot be surpassed.
Brother James Hacking last year raised
very near three thousand pounds of honey
and this year over three thousand pounds
and the fruit is fine. Brother Strinham
has a five acre vineyard with different
varieties of grapes. We left Vernal on our
return trip Thursday morning, 27th, hav-
ing had a very happy time with the dear
Saints there, we traveled on camping four
nights each way, Sunday night we camped
in a heavy snow-storm half way down
Daniels Canyon. Monday morning we
breakfasted at Brother Jacobs at the mouth
of the canyon, they made us feel very 
much at home, we hurried on to Heber
City (having parted with Brother and Sis-
ter Brown) took leave of the good Saints
there, hurried on to Park City, took the
train for home, reached Salt Lake City
seven p. m., thankful to find all well at
home, taking it altogether having had a 
very pleasant trip.
	Yours with kindest regards,
