JUAB STAKE.
	THE sixty second Quarterly Conference
of the Relief Society, of Juab Stake, was
held in the Nephi Tabernacle, Sep. 21st,
1894, President Mary Pitchforth presiding.
Choir sang, “The time is nigh,” etc.
Opening prayer, President Paxman.
Singing, “Let those who would be Saints
indeed,” etc. Minutes of previous meet-
ing read and approved.
	President Mary Pitchforth desired an in-
terest in the prayers of those present.
Spoke at some length on the storing of
grain, and also Home Industry, and said
the prophecies of the servants of God,
would surely come to pass and we did not
know the hour, therefore it behooves us to
be awake to the times, and we must sus-
tain home manufacture, read a piece from
the EXPONENT referring to the same sub-
ject rejoiced in the Gospel, wished bless-
ings upon all present.
	Counselor Hannah Jones felt that we
were going behind instead of advancing in
home-made, she had very mnch enjoyed
the wearing of home-made apparel in
years gone by, thought that we should
patronize home made goods, and although
late in the day, “let us obey the counsel of
early days,” rejoiced every day of her life
that she was associated with this people,
desired health for President Pitchforth and
her Counselor Amy Bigler.
	E. M. Udall, president of the 1st, Ward
of Nephi, represented that ward in excel-
lent condition, referred to the labors of
officers, and members, also to the storing
of grain and home manufacture, bore a
faithful testimony.
	Sang, “Yes we will gather at the river.”
 	S. A. Cazier, Counselor of the Second
Ward of Nephi, represented the ward in
good condition, said the society would be
very little without the aid of the faithful
officers, the Saints had been blessed with
unusual good crops of grain, all should
store a little of that grain away; en-
couraged home manufacture.


[Column 1]
	Sister Miranda Bryan grew stronger
every day of her life in the gospel, referred
to the storing of grain and home manufac-
ture, would be willing to show any of the
young sisters how to spin, she had very
much enjoyed the labor of spinning.
	The Young Ladies should learn how to
be good housekeepers and know how to
make their husbands and families com-
fortable, when they assumed that position
in life, prayed that the Lord would bless us
that we may be able to carry out suc-
cessfully every laudable undertaking.
	Sister Williams, president of Mona Relief
Society, represented the branch in good
condition, were doing all they could in the
storing of grain. 
	Sister Christenson, President Levan
Relief Society, reported the ward in ex-
cellent condition, referred to the storing of
grain and Home Manufacture, desired to be
faithful.
	President Pitchforth was much pleased
with the reports, and the spirit of the sis-
ters, the spirit of the times was Home In-
dustry, felt that we were all willing to obey
counsel, and do all in our power to perform
our part; gave excellent counsel to officers
and members of the society, advised all
that could to attend the General Confer-
ence, that we might partake of the bless-
ings that would be received there. Choir
sang, “O, my Father thou that dwellest.”
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Brother Charles
Sperry, had been very much pleased with
the reports, of the presidents of the differ-
ent wards, spoke well of the organization
of the sisters, did not know how the
Church could do without them; referred to
Home Manufacture, many things could be
raised here that were imported, referred to
home-spun clothing of early days, was not
ashamed of his home made apparel, could
go into any society clothed in it; did not
think we should have a famine here, but
we must be as Joseph of old and prepare
for others. 
	President Mary Pitchforth desired that 
the sisters, all that possibly could, should
subscribe for the EXPONENT and take the
only little paper that had the signs of the
times, it was only one dollar a year, and
should be well sustained. President Pax-
man rejoiced in the unity of spirit mani-
fested by the sisters that had reported, felt
thankful for that spirit, it was not so in all
places, knew that the sisters in this stake
had ever sought for counsel and had been
blessed in their efforts, spoke at length on
the storing of grain, it should be strictly at-
tended to by this people, impressed upon
our minds, the duties required of us, to pay
our fast offerings, that the favor and bless-
ings of God might rest upon us; if this was
attended to it would sustain our poor,urged
upon the Saints to observe this require-
ment; considered Home Industry of the
utmost importance, the time would come
when we would be cut off from other re-
sources we now had, then what would be-
come of us, if we had nothing to fall back
upon, said ask for home made and see that
you get it when making purchases, we
would be surprised to know how much of
home made there is here in Utah. He
felt just as sure as that we were all here
that we would be cut off from Babylon
eventually and we must prepare for it.
Spoke of the EXPONENT said let us sub-
scribe for that paper, that brings the spirit
of the times, endorsed all that had been
said, he was a supporter of home-made

[Column 2]
articles, we must all endeavor to sustain
home-made if we want the blessings of
God, the angels will smile upon us and
God will be pleased with us.
	President Paxman concluded his dis-
course by saying, “God bless you all.”
Sang, “Come, thou glorious day of
promise.” Benediction by Brother Langley
Bailey. Conference then adjourned for
three months.
	ELLEN L. GOLDSBROUGH, Stake Sec.
		SODA SPRINGS IDAHO.
Editor Womans Exponent:—
	AT Sister Lindsey’s request, I write to
inform yon of the reorganization of the
Relief Society at this place.
	On July 11th, 1894, President Julia
Lindsey Counselors Collins and Hart met
at Soda Springs to reorganize the Relief
Society. Sister Hannah Raymond, being
honorably released on account of failing
health, she had been President of the
society since June 26th, 1879. Sister Ray-
mond was eighty-one years old last March.
She has preformed the labors of President
faithfully while holding the office, and was
unanimously given a vote of thanks by all
the members of the society. Sister
Dorethea Lau was unanimously chosen as
successor to Sister Raymond, with Elizabeth
Rose First and Emma Rudd Second Coun-
selors, Louisa Horsley Secretary, Millie
Campbell Assistant Secretary and Matilda
Horsley, Treasurer.
	Yours Respectfully, 
				ELIZABETH ROSE.
		PRIMARY ORDERVILLE. 
	THE people of Orderville assembled at
the hall to witness the exhibits of the
Primary Fair which was a credit to those
who presided over that Association. It was
a grand sight to see the different specimens
 of needle work, and all kinds of fancy
work, it was surprising to see how many
things were presented at the fair with such
fine taste and was beyond anything that
was anticipated.
	There was a dress cut and made by a
little girl nine years old, that would be a
credit to older ones. There were many
beautiful things made by little hands, it
would be impossible to name them all.
There was a beautiful selection of fruit for
the time of year, and the vegetables made
a grand showing. There were no animals
but some tame rabbits which were exhibited
by Charles Hardy Carroll, and a couple of
sheep which were greatly appreciated by
the little ones. There were beautiful cakes
made by the little girls; little wagons and
other implements of agriculture. The fair
was presided over by the Presidency of the
Primary, Susannah Fackrell. President;
Eliza Fackrell, First Counselor; Kezia
Esplim, Second Counselor; C. A. Carroll,
Secretary. With a Committee of Arrange-
ments who were Amelia S. Carroll, Libbie
Fackrell, Annie E. Fackrell, who were a
great help in arranging the things to ad-
vantage. 
