[Vol23 | April 1936 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Article | Title: A Benefactor]

A Benefactor UNTIL John Davey worked out tree surgery over fifty years ago, it was thought that trees had to die when they were sick and that man could do nothing about it. John Davey became a trained horticulturist.
When he looked at sick trees, he asked why they could not be saved. His study of botany and other sciences made him think that these living trees would yield to curative processes, so he experimented and worked out a system of treatment for trees unique and revolutionary.
After a lifetime of effort he was triumphant. He laid the foundation for a new profession. He lived to see his theories and philosophy accepted and his methods put in general practice.
Because of his life work countless thousands of trees have been saved. DEMAND Utah Beet Sugar At no extra cost you.
Help the farmers and wage earners of your own state which directly or indirectly Benefits you. Complete Suits for Men and Women?Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices ee  , Utah When Buying 
Mention Relief Society Magazine 'Telephone Wasatch 3286 29
Bishop's Building Here is the best "job insurance" policy! Learn to do your work better than anyone else can do it. Our modern equipment, competent faculty, and individual methods of instruction will help you to win and hold the better positions.
DAY AND EVENING CLASSES ALL THE YEAR
Visit the School, send a card, or telephone for information. I. D. S. Business College Salt Lake City Keep Your Home Painted... And you'll keep It NEW!... And new for a long time if you use FULLER PURE PREPARED PAINT? a product that has been the standard of paint quality for 87 years. Also?
USE THESE QUALITY PRODUCTS FULLER
Decoret Enamel, Fullerglo, Fullerwear Floor Enamel, Fullerene Wallpaper Cleaner, Fuller Wallpapers, Speedite Varnish, Fuller Mirrors, At
FULLER PAINT DEALERS
Everywhere Ww. P. FULLER & CO. Salt Lake and Ogden, Utah FULLER PAINTS they last