[Vol23 | April 1936 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Article | Title: Mrs. Benson Takes a Hand]
"Let me out! Let me out! This is an outrage!" The debonaire prisoner pounded futilely upon the heavy door. Mrs. Benson walked around to a window and tapped sharply with the butt of the pearl handled pistol, motioning for the prisoner to raise the sash.

"Can you make bread?" demanded Mrs. Benson with apparent levity. "Certainly not," snapped the prisoner, minus all his politeness, "and I would thank you to let me out immediately! My time is valuable."

"I'll let you out when you have made me a perfect batch of bread," countered Mrs. Benson. "You'll find paper, matches, kindling and coal in that box behind the stove. You'll find flour, salt, sugar, yeast and a good breadmixer on top of the stove. Detailed instructions on how to make bread are pasted on top of that pretty sheet of paper you gave Lettie Mack, telling her how to operate a knitting machine. It's in the warming oven. I'll buy every loaf of perfect bread you can make. No imperfections, however. Just as your company won't accept socks with dropped stitches, nor broken threads, I won't accept bread that is soggy, burned, or underbaked."

"No modern man is expected to understand culinary arts," countered the man on the inside of the solid old bars. "I couldn't perform such a feat in a thousand years."

"And Lettie Mack couldn't learn to make a perfect pair of socks on your stupid machine in a thousand years, either," retaliated the lady on the outside of those old substantial bars. "It's too complicated. The wool won't travel through all those hooks and gadgets. The yarn snarls and breaks, and you know no hand operated machine could possibly compete with power operated ones."

"She signed a legible contract. I gave it to her to read. She didn't have to sign, and if she is persistent and mechanically minded she can learn to operate it. I OPERATE IT."

"And I make bread," answered Mrs. Benson simply. "Been doing it for 27 years."

"If you don't let me out, I'll have you sued for concealing firearms, and arrested for unlawfully retaining a person against his will, and for inducing me here on false pretenses."

"The sheriff is my youngest brother, and the judge is my husband," smiled Mrs. Benson. "And you'll learn to make pretty good bread before Dad comes home from his river trip. I will confess. That is, I'll let you go on your way unmolested provided you pass sixty dollars through these bars to me. Then I'll put your machine in your car with the six you already got there, and let you go. Provided the money doesn't look counterfeit," she added as an afterthought.

"It was a legitimate sale," stormed the prisoner, all suavity gone from his voice.

"You should make your fire first," counseled Mrs. Benson, "so as to have luke warm water for the bread. Cold water kills the yeast."

The woman who had borne and reared six children, whose grandfather had never failed in his duty as protector of the peace of the community, looked unflinchingly into the eyes of the metropolitan youth who had felt the gullible people of the west were his legitimate prey. Slowly his hand moved upward to his inner coat pocket; slowly he extracted a wallet and pushed six ten dollar bills through the bars of the window. Mrs. Benson, never loosening her grip on the pearl mounted revolver, inspected the bills carefully; held each one to the light to locate the tiny silken threads that mark the genuine currency of our land.

"Looks all right," she admitted grudgingly. "I'll put your machine back in your car. You bought it back you know. Then I'll start my own car, and I'll follow you to the state line; it's only thirty miles, and I'll enjoy the ride. It won't be healthy for you to try to sell any more machines in this state."

THAT night Lettie Mack slept the peaceful sleep of a forgiven child. The six ten dollar bills were safely tucked in a small glass jar, which reposed inside a two quart jar, with the intervening space filled with small, innocent looking brown beans. Mrs. Benson, weary but elated, wrote to the state museum that she was retaining one small pearl handled pistol, as it had personal memories. As she stuck the stamp on her letter with a vigorous thrust, she muttered,

"The words boredom and ennui should be stricken from the dictionary. There are no such words in my vocabulary!"
