[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | March | Issue: 6 | Title: ANNIE WELLS CANNON. | Author: A. W. C]

		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


[Column 1]
		THE LEGISLATURE.
	The tenth session of the Utah legislature
has closed and for the fourth time since
statehood women took part with men in the
framing of the laws.
	There have been all together nine women
elected to the legislature of this state; more
than any other state has had and foremost
of all the states in such procedure.
	Very much has been published this past
winter in the different magazines about Col-
orado’s woman senator, claiming that Mrs.
Robinson of that state is the first woman in
the United States to hold that position; and
it has been with some surprise that we have
noted the press of Utah has not contra-
dicted the statement, when it is well known
that in 1897, Dr. Martha Hughes Cannon
was elected on the Democratic ticket to the
legislature, as state senator, and the same
year Mrs. LaBarthe was elected state repre-
sentative. The next session Mrs. Alice M.
Horne of Salt Lake City and Mrs. Anderson
of Ogden were elected representatives, while
two years later Mrs. Coulter of Ogden
graced the lower house with her presence.
After a lapse of five years women came once
more to the front in this connection and the
result was the election in 1912 of five women
on the state ticket, one presidential elector
and four state representatives. The elector,
Mrs. Margaret Zane Witcher; Dr. Jane W.
Skolfield, Mrs. Anna H. King, Mrs. Edythe
Ellerbeck Read and Mrs. Annie Wells Can-
non, representatives. In the beginning of
the session Mrs. Read, who had been ill all
winter, died without even qualifying, and
the women felt they had sustained not only
a severe loss in companionship but the loss
of an able and brilliant co-laborer in the
many lines of their work.
	That the legislature just closed has been
a memorable one for some splendid work is
recognized as a review of the measures
passed will testify.
	The interests of the state at large were
well considered, and while roads and
bridges, and cattle and sheep, and wild ani-
mals and irrigation projects, and revenue
and taxation, mines and smelters and dif-
ferent industries, fish and game, all received
much attention, there was also more thought
and time given to the educational interests
of the state and more splendid measures en-
acted along that line than any previous leg-
slature; also considerable attention was
given to social legislation, and while all the
measures along this line were not success-
ful, many of them were. Among these lat-
ter were the widowed mothers’ pension and

[Column 2]
joint guardianship, the minimum wage, the
woman deputy, the widows’ property tax
exemption bills, for all of which the women
worked most earnestly, also the new juve-
nile court law, which is a most excellent
measure. It creates a system of juvenile
court judges throughout the state, adding
greatly to the efficiency and support of an
already admirable work.
	That some worthy measures did not suc-
ceed is due not so much to a lack of earnest
work as perhaps a lack of knowledge on the
part of some of the legislators. New ideas
require, like other things, time to grow, but
when the seed is once sown the plant is
pretty sure to thrive and those things hoped
for this time will, we trust, be realized the
next.
	For the first time in the history of the
state the legislature adjourned in the allotted
sixty days, a precedent which it is hoped
other sessions will follow.
						A. W. C.


