[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | March | Issue: 6 | Title: RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT. | Author: Unknown]

	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		BOX ELDER STAKE.
	Convened Nov. 16th, 1912, Pres. Sarah P.
Stohl presiding. Present, besides Relief So-
ciety stake officers, Pres. Oleen N. Stohl,
Bishop Johnson of Mantua, Sister Sarah
McLelland of general Relief Society board,
Sisters Sarah M. Taylor, Goddard, Jost, and
Coles of the Ogden stake Relief Society.
	Singing “Did You Think to Pray.” Open-
ing prayer by Sister Sophia Jensen. Sing-
ing by the Relief Society choir, “Angry
words, oh let them never.” Roll call showed
two hundred and fifty present. Minutes of
previous forenoon conference read and ap-
proved.
	Pres. Sarah P. Stohl was pleased to see
so many sisters out this morning, and was
very happy to have so many visitors with
us; said we hoped to make this the most
profitable conference we had yet had. May
the Lord bless us with His holy spirit to-
day.
	Sister Julia A. Richards gave a good talk
on genealogy; thought it very necessary to
keep a record of our families; said it was a
work in which there ought to be more in-
terest taken; thought if we wanted our chil-
dren to take interest in this work we would
have to take interest ourselves; said she
thought it was a work which draws out our
love for our relatives and one another. May
the Lord bless all.
	Sister Daisy Madsen gave a report of her
labors in the mission field; said she worked
in the Relief Society in Chicago, where they

[Column 2]
had quite a large society; thought if the
sisters here had the difficulties the sisters
have in the world we would appreciate the
work much better. Reported the work in
Bloomington, Ill.; said the sisters have the
spirit of the Lord with them when they
meet; spoke of the sacrifices some of them
have to make when they join the Church,
and could contrast the difference between
those who had been raised in the gospel and
those who had not; gave some of her ex-
perience in tracting; said her heart was full
of gratitude for the little she had done in
the Relief Society; paid a tribute to the
mothers; said if every Latter-day Saint
would live up to the requirements made of
her, we would be a better example to the
people.
	Pres. Agnes Owens reported the Willard
Relief Society, also Pres. Annie Peters re-
ported the Perry association. The choir
sang the selection, “Daughters of Zion.”
	Sister Sarah McLelland of the General
Board said it was with very much pleasure
she came to visit this conference, and give
the greeting of Sister Wells to the sisters
here; referred to her laboring in the mission
field, with some of the sisters from this
stake, and knew them to be good worthy
sisters, whom she had learned to love; did
not wonder at their goodness in being as-
sociated with such good mothers; had very
much enjoyed the spirit here this morning,
and the good attendance; spoke in
regard to the temptations that are before
our children, and that they did need the
faith and prayers and counsel of the fathers
and mothers, that they may retain the faith.
Referred to genealogical work, and her priv-
lege of visiting the Temple at St. George;
said a few words to the teachers, and said
any position that you hold is worthy of your 
best efforts.
	Sister Coles of the Ogden stake was very
pleased that our president had been kind 
enough to invite them to attend this confer-
ence; had been well paid for coming, in
listening to the talks of the sisters; spoke on 
genealogy work, was very much impressed
with this work, and the greatness of it, and
how the spirit of Elijah was working with
the people of the world in this direction;
her whole heart and soul was in this Relief
Society work.
	Pres. Sarah P. Stohl invited all the sisters
to remain and have lunch.
	Singing, “Oh God, we raise to Thee.”
	Prayer by Bishop Johnson.
	2 p. m.—Singing, “We Thank Thee, O
God, for a Prophet.” Opening prayer by
Bro. W. C. Horsley. Singing by choir,
“Sweet is the Work.” Minutes of previous
afternoon conference read and approved.
	Pres. Sarah P. Stohl was pleased to see
such a good congregation this afternoon,
and hoped all would be able to hear.
	A paper on “The Ideal Home” was given
by Sister Minnie H. Jensen.
	Sister Sevena Madsen gave a report of
her labors in the Northern States Mission.
It had been her privilege to bear her testi-
mony first in a Relief Society meeting. It
was a pleasure to go and do all she could to
assist in Relief Society work; they studied
the “Parent and Child;” was transferred
from Chicago to Des Moines; they had a
mothers’ class there and studied the prin-
ciples of the gospel; reported the work at
Council Bluffs; reported her visit with Pres.

[Column 3]
Horsley and others at the Park Valley and
Rosette wards, this stake; was very much
impressed with the visit.
	Duet and chorus by the choir, “Truth Re-
flects Upon Our Senses.”
	Dr. R. A. Pearse gave a talk on “Public
Sanitation,” and how our committees can
be a help to the Board of Health; spoke on
the inspection of school children for the eye,
ear and throat trouble, and the detriment
these defects were to the child through life;
spoke on the milk supply, and to watch for
contagious diseases; gave ways of keeping
down disease germs; said the people should
demand certain laws that are for the best
good of the people.
	Pres. Sarah M. Taylor of the Ogden
stake was very thankful for the invitation to
come to this conference; had enjoyed it very
much; spoke in regard to the small attend-
ance of young mothers, also in regard to
the work of the teachers; gave a brief report
of the work done in the Ogden stake; was
pleased with the talk on sanitation; 
thought how necessary it was for us
to be organized that we may carry on this
work, and thought we could plan our home
work so that we could get out to Relief
Society meeting; said a few words on gene-
alogical work, also on the history of the
Pioneers. Prayed that the spirit of the
Lord would rest upon us in such a way that
we will do our duty.
	Sisters Daisy and Sevena Madsen ren-
dered a duet, entitled, “God is Love.”
	Sister Sarah McLelland said we are
always glad to have the priesthood with us,
as it always has its good influence. The
paper on “The Ideal Home” and the talk on
sanitation had been very good; paid a trib-
ute to the choir, and had enjoyed the beau-
tiful singing; said there was such a broad
field for the Relief Society; felt that the key-
note for the future was in what Pres. Joseph
F. Smith had said in the last semi-annual
conference in regard to setting our aim 
high, and in regard to immorality in dress;
spoke on honoring the Sabbath day, form-
ing of habits, card playing, and cigarette
smoking; thought if we prayed for those
boys who do these things, the Lord would
help us; spoke on the great work of women,
and felt there was not another people who
had as much to live for as the Latter-day
Saints. May God bless you in your work in
this part of the Lord’s vineyard.
	Stake Pres. Oleen N. Stohl felt the most
important thing before us now was to im-
press our children with faith; thought we
ought to talk more to them, and speak more
of the beauties of the gospel; spoke of the
receiving of the Holy Ghost and the bless-
ing s that follow it; the mothers taking
more interest in the Parents’ classes in the
Sunday School, and participating in the
lessons taught there; felt to ask a
blessing upon the mothers and said they
could do much in instilling good principles
in the lives of our children.
	Pres. Sarah P. Stohl felt we had had
an enjoyable time, together, and thanked
the sisters who had visited us and given us
such good talks and counsel; felt we ought
to be friendly and neighborly.
	By request, the choir sang “Daughters of 
Zion.”
	Benediction by Sister Emelia D. Madsen.
			ANNIE H. LITTLEWOOD,
						Stake Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
