Presidents' Day In view of the present interest in leadership, nothing could be more appropriate than a Presidents' Day. The plan as conceived by  the interior of the General Board room of the Relief Society, the home and portrait of Bathsheba W. Smith, were the views seen during the reading of the paper. Julia A. F. Lund had as her theme, Emmeline B. Wells, the fifth president. The pictures seen during Mrs. Lund's address were, the Relief Society gathering wheat, a Relief Society wheat field, a copy of the last Exponent, a copy of the first Relief Society Magazine, Mt. Timpanogos, Emmeline B. Wells' old home, and Emmeline B. Wells' portrait. During the time Mrs. Wells' photograph rested on the screen, the congregation sang, "Our mountain home so dear." A toast to Clarissa S. Williams, the present and sixth president of the Rel'ef Society, was given by Counselor Jennie B. Knight. During the time of her greeting to President Williams, a portrait of the five presidents and the Historian's 'Office, which was the birthplace of Mrs. Williams, and Mrs. Williams' photograph, were thrown upon the screen. Mrs. Williams responded to Mrs. Knight's toast. The program was characterized throughout by the uniform excellence of its numbers. After the concluding musical number, "Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation," the benediction was offered by Louie B. Felt. "Aunt Em's'' Birthday The Utah Woman's Press Club entertained on February 28, in honor of the birthday anniversary of the founder of the club, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells. A tender and appropriate program was given by members of the club, featuring different phases of Mrs. Wells' life work, together with choice musical numbers and readings from Aunt Em's poems. Mrs. Ruth May Fox and Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon read original poems in connection with their tributes. About seventy ladies were present, including, besides members of the club, close associates and friends of Mrs. Wells and members of her family. The hostess, Dr. Skolfield, in her remarks, stated that it was the purpose of the club in the near future to publish a booklet, or brochure, containing the history of the Woman's Press Club, and a biographical sketch