[WomansExponent | Vol14 | 1885 | November | Issue: 12 | Title: MISCELLANEOUS. | Author: Unknown]

MISCELLANEOUS.
A beautiful soul is rather to be envied than
a beautiful face.—Ez.
	Strike from mankind the principle of faith,
and men would have no more history than a
flock of sheep.—Buluer.
	Natural ability without education has oftener
raised man to glory and virtue, than educa-
tion without natural ability.—Cicero.
	The darkest hour in the history of any
young man is when he sits down to study how
to get money without honestly earning it.—
Horace Greeley.
	There is a gentle element, and man may
breathe it with a calm, unruffled soul, and
drink its living waters, till his heart is pure;
and this is human happiness.—N.P. Willis.
	No man has come to true greatness who has
not felt in some degree that his life belongs to
his race, and that what God gives him He
gives him for mankind.—Philips Brooks.
	I cannot tell you whether there is any par
ticular etiquette to be observed in administer-
ing a kiss; the great beauty of a kiss lies in
its impulsiveness, and in its impressibility.—
H. W. Shaw.
	Henry W. Shaw (“Josh Billings”), by
whose death we lose not merely a humorist,
but an uncommonly shrewd coiner of aphorisms
that condense much practical wisdom, it ap-
pears was the Uncle Ezek of the Century's
“Bric-a-brac” department.—Ex.
	Parents should remember that what they
are in themselves will form a far stronger
force in molding their children’s characters
than the most fervent exhortations they can
utter, the most urgent efforts they can make,
or the longest array of motives they can pre-
sent.  It is their living example that will be
followed.  If to them duty is a cross heavy
to be borne and happiness something quite
apart from it, perhaps even opposed to it,
no reasoning, however cogent, no assertions,
however forcible, no testimony, however
weighty, will ever convince their children of
the contrary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿ 
Woman’s Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	 	-		 Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
