GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 479 furnisher of the loaves. There is ample opportunity, however, to distinguish between them. There is no way to "weary" blessings from the Lord. Anything obtained from him through inconsistent persistency will be proved as it always has been proved not to be a blessing. In the presence of the Spirit of the Lord, persistency in prayer. Will be accompanied by such consistency as was manifest in the garden of Gethsemene. The Second Parable?The Importunate Woman, or the Unjust Judge. Luke 18:2-5. "There was in a city a judge, which feared not God, neither regarded man: and there was a widow in that city; and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary, And he would not for a while; but afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard man; yet, because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me.". The Setting: This parable was evidently spoken to a mixed multitude. The Principal object of the parable is plainly set forth in the first paragraph of the chapter. Put in the negative and it would read: "Don't get tired, or weary not in praying. When we consider how much faith is weakened by the apparent futility of prayer, it is little wonder that the Savior placed so much importance upon the importance of persisting in prayer. The great teacher had presented the lesson to his disciples and now he gives it to the masses in a manner that would demand interest. The lesson is one taught by triple contrasts. A rich man and a poor widow. A powerful potentate and a helpless woman. The meanness of man and the majesty of God. The judge was then as now a representative of no small class of self-sufficient autocrats, fearing nobody and feeding on everybody. Lovers of pleasure more than lovers of men. A devotee of ease without an ideal. A mortal to whom the letter "I" is a symbol of the universe. The widow, a typical appealer for justice; a seeker for merited consideration; a persistent 'petitioner. She won out not by the justice of her cause, but by the persistency of her request. The untiringness of her pleadings brought justice from an unjust source; hence, secured results from the act of a coward. This persistency is made to triumph in the field of sheer selfishness. Then in his explanation the Savior declares the absolute certainty of firm redress; absolute for those who persist in appealing to the source of justice and mercy. The widow's prayer may have been based on self-interest, but not on selfishness, for one is the seeking of one's share and the other is seeking for more than is due. The parable furnished a groundwork GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 481 in providing the one and in catching the other, they had no interest. They had little or no concern about the future. The unrighteous steward was capable but his carelessness made him unreliable. His carelessness crowded him to crooked- _ ness. The Lord of the estate, while condemning his indolence and despising his dishonesty, commended his prudence in providing for the future; and here is the real lesson for which the parable was given. It is wise to provide for the future. The Savior's comment that "the children of this world are in their generation wiser than the children of light," pointed to the fact that energetic unbelievers, doing what they can to save themselves, manifest greater wisdom than lethargic believers who do little or nothing for their salvation, leaving it all to the Lord. The Savior's advice following the parable, "And I say unto you, Make to yourselves friends of the mammon of unrighteousness; that, when ye fail, they may receive you into everlasting habitations." Some have thought that Jesus was recommending the securing of the friendship of persons of wealth, as a source of salvation, in an hour of ethical or religious failure. In this line of thought the pronoun "they" would of necessity have for 'its antecedent the rich people, when the fact is that the antecedent is the mammon of unrighteousness, which is riches and not people. And herein Jesus brought into prominence the salvation value of riches both here and hereafter. How can riches have an everlasting habitation, or have anything to do with an everlasting habitation, when we all know that a time will come when we shall fail to possess anything on earth. How can we make riches our friends? By accumulating them through thrift, and doing good with them. How can riches have an eternal, everlasting habitation. Riches can have an everlasting habitation through the good that is accomplished by them. No one questions the declaration that men's works shall follow them, and is not the use of their wealth a part of their works? An honest tithing, a generous donation, a benevolent endowment, are all samples of riches as being made friends that possess and give an everlasting habitation. They can not even be thought of without a thrill of satisfaction, thus making a heaven which is an everlasting part of the individual.: The following quoted from Jesus the Christ, by Elder James E. Talmage, is illuminating: "Emulate the unjust steward and the lovers of mammon, not in their dishonesty, cupidity, and miserly hoarding of the wealth that is at best but transitory, but in their zeal, forethought, and provision for the future. Moreover, let not wealth become your master; keep it to its place as a servant, for, "No servant can serve two masters: for either he GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 483 19. What is the mammon of unrighteousness referred to by the Savior in his comment on this parable? 20. How may we make of riches friends that will help to furnish an everlasting habitation? 21. When do we begin to stop using and begin to serve riches?