ON THE WATCH TOWER. 421 passed also in the Senate, June 4, and its submission to the various State legislatures for ratification is now in order.
Germany objects strongly to the peace terms submitted, which require her to give up territory, pay heavy indemnities, and restrict her standing army to 100,000 men. Notwithstanding the objections, the probability is that the Germans will sign the treaty.
Baptists and Presbyterians, as well as Catholics, have refused to engage in a great combination of the churches under one head, yet the cleavage between Protestant and Catholic seems the likely permanent line of demarcation, from developments and discussions in those quarters during May.
Labor strikes occurred in several states of the Union, including Utah, in May, the chief demands being for higher wages and the recognition of the unions to the exclusion of other workers. The tendency becoming clearly manifest is to seek power and gain for the labor unions in the disputes that arise.
President Wilson asked Congress, in his message to that body, to repeal the wartime prohibition of the manufacture and sale of beer and light wines. The mass of the people in the United States seem so well satisfied with the results of the prohibition that they have not taken kindly to the President's recommendation.
Transatlantic air-flights were shown in May to be possible, by the flight of three American planes toward the Azores, the longest lap in that ocean passage. One of these, the NC4, was successful on May 16 and 17, under Lieut.-Commander Albert S. Read. The other two were disabled when near their destination, and the crews rescued. Later the NC4 made Lisbon, and America holds the honor of having passed the Atlantic by air flight.
Harry G. Hawker and McKenzie Grieve, an Australian aviator and British naval officer, who made the daring attempt on May 17 to go in an airplane from Newfoundland to Ireland, went 1100 miles on their way, when a pipe in the machine became clogged and they were compelled to descend in the sea. They were then 800 miles from the Irish coast. They were picked up ninety minutes later by the crew of the Danish ship Mary, but their rescue did not become known to the people on the mainland until six days later.