TEACHERS' TRAINING COURSE. The Church authorities delegated to a large committee, chosen from the auxiliary boards, the task of improving the methods of our various class leaders and teachers in Relief Societies, Sunday Schools, the Mutuals, Primaries and Religion Classes. To this end a book was printed, and classes have been arranged where all these religion teachers may meet for study and discussion of teaching methods. It is expected that they who are already familiar with such methods in public schools will acquire a needed religious application of their pedagogical ideas; while those who have never had that inestimable privilege, will acquire, to a greater or less degree, ideas and modes of imparting information which are, and forever will be, a dominant part of every Latter-day Saint's life here and hereafter. Fathers, mothers of children, grandparents, guardians, men in active priesthood quorums, women in auxiliary official positions, of any sort, in short, the whole membership of the Church need to teach, for we are sent to teach rather than to be taught of the world, and if we need to teach, we ought to know all we can know about how to teach. All of us, the least educated or the best, the toiler or the teacher, the mother or the school student, we all have stores of information crowded together in our minds. It may be information of a limited nature on a few subjects; but Latter-day Saints are Saints because they think on religious topics, and match EDITORIAL. 427 thought with action. That information, whether it pertains only to daily, temporal duties, or broadens out to include vast stores of mental and spiritual truths will lie huddled together in our minds, like great masses of unsorted merchandise in a storehouse, unless we discover how to classify it, sort it, and to use it in logical sequence suited to the time and the occasion. The teachers' training course aims to give clues by which system and order may supercede the chaotic condition of many otherwise well stored minds. Parents have to teach, they do teach, daily, hourly, whether they will or not. And too often, because of the lack of the fundamentals of inspired pedagogy, they teach lessons exactly the opposite of what they aim to, while class teachers in our women's organization, many of them school teachers with more or less pedagogical proficiency, use what they have learned from uninspired sources to the actual detriment of those to whom they address themselves in our auxiliary organizations. Another class, the great majority of them being good former missionaries, or men and women of much natural ability but without training, stumble along, now hitting the mark and occasionally missing it. To all of these, this teacher's training course comes like a staff on an upward climb. The point of the whole matter is that the course is founded on the teachings of the Christ, its corner stone is his gospel, and the whole superstructure, faulty as human vision is fallible, yet bears the impress of divine ideals. The Prophet Joseph, we are told, instructed his friends to acquire all possible information, adding that he himself, if confined to one study would choose "natural philosophy," as it was then called: while President Young organized the Church school system, giving Dr. Maeser, as his only advice, "Don't try even to teach the multiplication table without the Spirit of the Lord." We shall never learn too much, nor know facts and truths enough. We may well fear to achieve knowledge, to receive what we term education, under the tutelage of skeptics and unbelievers in divine revelation. But when, as in the present instance, our instruction comes through the channels of the priesthood, and the knowledge of truths taught are informed and inspired by Latter-day Saint teachers and instructors, we shall do well to become willing pupils, eager students. We welcome, therefore, this effort to give better methods, more definite results, to the teaching necessities of the Relief Society class leaders and all officers and members of our great organization. Sisters, let us support this movement with all our power. Summer Lesson in Hygiene. HOW TO KEEP WELL. Dr. Samuel H. Allen. We have appreciated that man is a dual being ? one part of the human Ego is spiritual, and the other part purely material. The material part of us is in every sense of the word a machine, following all the mechanical laws of machines. It is true that many of the processes of this wonderful machine are beyond our power of comprehension, but many of them we have learned to comprehend, and the science which deals with the processes of the human body we call physiology. For a machine to work well, there are certain rules that have to be observed in managing it. The man who would keep his automobile in first class condition must know the kind and quality of gasoline to use. the points where lubrication is necessary, and the amount of water to keep his radiator from boiling. He must appreciate also that bolts and bearings must be kept in proper adjustment, and everything up to a certain degree of perfection. He must know also, that if he would have his machine do its best work and work continuously over a long period of time, he must go gently over the rough places and not subject it to undue strain. Exactly the same reasoning applies to the human body. This human machine is a much more intricate apparatus than any mechanism which the intelligence of man has contrived. If we would have it work to its highest degree of efficient and continuous service over a long period of time, we must apply the rules which govern its activity as a machine. Abundance of fresh air is necessary to supply the tissues with oxygen to carry off the carbonic acid and other waste products. When I was a medical student a quarter of a century ago, we used to speak of tuberculosis as one of the incurable diseases. In the vain hope to do something, we gave tubercular patients cod liver oil and creosote, and other nauseating substances, which we imagined had curative power in them. Today we regard tuberculosis as a very curable disease in the great majority of cases. We have learned that God made the medicine which cures these people if they will only put themselves in a position to appropriate it. We say often to an early tubercular patient, "Get away from the habitations of man into the great ocean of atmosphere, get your air unimpeded by walls, and uncontaminated by other SUMMER LESSONS IN HYGIENE. 429 human beings, and rest in bed when you have fever, take abundance of nourishment; and the whole structure of our tuberculosis problem has been changed. The same thing is true of other infections. Patients who are lingering and not doing well will often improve rapidly when they are placed out in the open air. The over anxious mother was wont to close the windows on cold winter nights for fear her children might get croup or bronchitis or pneumonia from the damp night air. She did not appreciate that she was doing the very thing with vitiated air that predisposed them to the diseases by lowering their vitality. If she would cover the child up warm in bed, and throw the windows wide open, she would be much more likely to prevent the child from taking cold than by the reverse process. We have all seen people who remain perfectly well out on camping expeditions, living in the open air, who contracted a cold immediately when they came home and subjected themselves to the contaminated air of sleeping apartments. The modern sleeping porch is one of the best adjuncts to our home that has been developed in recent years. When we learn to use it continuously, we will find a great many of the respiratory troubles will disappear. A great law of life which the medical profession has slowly learned to appreciate is that the body cells have power to resist disease and to cure themselves of disease if they are kept up to a high degree of vitality. Daily we are all subjected to possible infections of all kinds, and do not contract them because our vitality is up to the resisting point. When, by overwork, or long continued exposure to cold or through breathing vitiated air, we lower our vitality, then the infection has a chance to take hold of us. The quantity and quality of food is also a thing that is of vital importance. A great many people eat too much, and some people eat too little. Physiological chemistry has shown that we need a proper proportion between the proteid and the fats and the sugars in our food. A great many people have eaten altogether too much meat. The scientific world is demonstrating that many chronic conditions result from the excessive use of meat. In the consideration of appendicitis, it has long been known that an excessive amount of meat in the diet is one of the common contributing factors. Lithemia, rheumatism, gout, and high blood pressure are all conditions resulting from excessive meat diet. We are all in the habit of swallowing our food whole, without proper mastication, and as a consequence, consume much more food than is good for us. If the man who runs an engine kept his stoker ever filling the fire box with coal, we can imagine that his engine would 430 . soon fail to do good work, and the same thing is true of the human machine. Food if not assimilated, ferments and produces trouble. "Leave the mark of every one of your 32 teeth on each mouthful of food before you swallow it" is a very good rule. You will have satisfied your appetite without excessive ingestion of food, and the food itself is in a condition for active chemical change when it comes in contact with the digestive fluids. You see the ox when he goes out in the morning and devours a great quantity of grass, he seeks some shady place and lays himself down and brings the food back into his mouth and masticates and masticates until it is thoroughly reduced to a condition of easy digestion. The human being who has not half as much sanitary sense as the ox, has to get the pepsin from his stomach to purchase absolution from the digestive sins he has been guilty of committing. Abundance of water is necessary, but it should be taken between meals rather than at the meal time. Imagine how quickly the sewerage system of the city would become clogged if it did not have abundance of water to flush its conduits. The same thing is true of the human body. The best activity of the brain, the strongest, most efficient activity of the muscles, or the freshest functioning of the moral faculties results from keeping our bodies healthy. It is a study worthy of all people alike to keep this machine running to its highest degree of efficiency, and over the longest period of years that it can be made to function over. HOW TO KEEP BABY WELL. Dr. Raphael S. Olsen. The following suggestions on how to keep the baby well are particularly adaptable to the hot summer months, since it is at this period that so many babies are lost. Mothers have originated the saying that the second summer is the most difficult one for the child ? that if he gets through this period no great difficulty will be experienced later. This idea has grown out of the fact that the child's second year of life is one of the important transition periods. During the first year his body needs are met by the mother's milk, which, so far as he is concerned, is a perfect food. Towards the end of this year, foods from outside sources are introduced to maintain the growth. It is this transition from the mother's milk to a variety of foods which makes the child's second summer a difficult one. Added to this are the troubles attendant on the cutting of incisor and molar teeth. Introduce the proper foods, however, and establish proper habits, and no fears need be entertained as to the outcome. SUMMER LESSONS IN HYGIENE. Do not attempt to wean the baby during the summer months, and what is still more important, do not attempt to nurse him through the second summer. In some cases, it becomes necessary to nurse longer than one year but even with these exceptional cases the breast must not be the only food relied on. Mother's milk is deficient in iron. Up to one year of age there is sufficient of this mineral stored in the child's tissues to meet the needs of the body growth, but after this time iron must be supplied in the food or anemia will develop. The percentage of children having anemia is alarmingly high. In many of these the beginning of the trouble has been in faulty diet during the first two years. It is at this period that we are laying the foundations for physical manhood and womanhood. Our ultimate results will depend entirely on the material we put into that foundation. It is not too much to say that the child's future success in life is dependent on the care his stomach gets during infancy. Poor food means a lowered vitality and a lowered vitality means susceptibility to infectious dysenteries and other troubles of more or less serious nature. It is not enough to satisfy the child's appetite. This is too often done by permitting foods that not only do not meet the body needs but actually lower resistance to disease. Foods that meet the child's needs must contain all the various food ingredients, not forgetting the "growth determinants," on which so much stress is being laid. The suggestions here made will help mothers only in so far as they are faithfully carried out. Detailed instructions are impossible owing to limited space. Foods for the second year: Milk ? one quart daily. Cereals without sugar. Bread ? particularly whole wheat or graham. Fruits ? Baked or stewed apples, prunes, fresh, bottled or canned fruits, oranges, bananas if real ripe or roasted. No berries, cherries, melons, overripe or green fruits. Vegetables ? baked or boiled potatoes, juices from stewed vegetables, particularly spinach, peas, string beans, or puree (thickened gravies) of stewed vegetables. Eggs ? not more than one daily, unless ordered so by your physician. Meats and meat soups should be used very sparingly or not at all. The child does not need them at this early period unless some malnutrition present requires their use. Foods to avoid: Tea, coffee, pastries, candies, fried foods, highly seasoned foods. 432 . Remember that dysentery is the most frequent cause of death during summer. Usually the fatal cases are the bottle fed babies. Rarely does the breast fed baby die from this cause. This is very likely due to the contamination of milk. "Raw milk is responsible for more sickness and deaths than perhaps all other foods combined." Mothers do not realize the need for keeping it ice cold until fed. Many do not take ice. The bottle of milk stands on the pantry shelf or is even allowed to stand on the porch in the sun for an hour or so after delivery. Milk so exposed will develop millions of bacteria within a very short time and these, with the poisons which they produce, bring on the bowel trouble that so often results fatally. Absolute cleanliness in milking the cows, cleaning pails, cans, bottles and nipples, must be observed if we would protect from dysentery. Filthy nipples and "pacifiers" are responsible for much of the trouble. Flies come from the outhouses where they have crawled over human and animal excreta, alight on the "pacifier," and thus transfer directly to the child's mouth the organisms of disease. From our carelessness the only wonder is that more babies do not die than do. Some don'ts: Don't feed milk that has been once warmed. If the baby does not take all that is offered, throw the rest away. Don't think that pasteurizing milk makes it safe ? organisms will grow as rapidly in pasteurized as in raw milk. Don't think it economy to be without ice in summer. You will pay more out for doctor bills than the ice will cost, as a result of contaminated milk. Don't let your baby "piece." Feed only at regular periods. If he won't eat, make him wait until the next period. Don't let your baby stay awake until late hours. "Early to bed and early to rise." Don't take your babies to the "movies." The foul air and exposure to disease may prove serious. Don't fear fresh air. Keep babies on the sleeping porch winter and summer. It will increase their resistance and promote health. Don't permit baby to be kissed in the mouth. Think of the foul breath, decayed teeth, pyorrhoea, catarrh, tonsillitis, and myriads of other diseased conditions that may be present in the adult mouth. Don't toss in the air or play roughly with the child, his nervous system may be seriously injured. Don't give baby soothing syrups, cough mixtures, worm medicines, teething powders, paregoric, except on the doctor's orders. SUMMER LESSONS IN HYGIENE. Don't wait to call a doctor until the child is dying and then expect him to perform a miracle. Remember that every serious condition of childhood has a simple beginning. Don't think that constipation can be corrected by "Castoria," "Syrup of Figs," etc. These only give temporary relief. Only through foods can we correct constipation. Don't overdress the child. There is just as much danger from this as from not enough clothing.