DIET NEEDS. Few people realize how much the human system depends on iron in the blood. There is less than one-tenth of an ounce of iron in the entire body of the average person, yet a slight reduction in this amount will cause serious trouble and a considerable reduction will result in death. Most of the iron in the body is in the blood and since there is no reserve store of iron as there is of calcium, in the human system, the amount of iron required for normal metabolism must be supplied each day in the food eaten or else the system will suffer and finally develop serious disease. Experiments have been made with giving inorganic iron to people and the results of these scientific experiments are not very satisfactory. A number of rats were fed on a diet poor in iron, while others were given the same diet to which had been added iron in solution. The rats were found, when killed, to be in about equal condition; other animals, such as rabbits, mice and dogs, were improved in health through the introduction of iron sulphate. The modern disease of anemia which used to be known as "thin" or "poor blood" troubles, and chlorosis, which is a hardening of the arteries, have been helped by using inorganic preparations. The mice which were fed iron oxide were found to contain twice the number of red blood cells that the other animals had which were not so treated. Certainly the best and safest mode of securing iron in the system is through using a proper diet. Certain foods contain iron and the best way to be sure that we have sufficient iron is to use some of the following foods containing at least 15 milligrams of iron per day. This amount can be obtained from vegetables and fruit, meats and nuts, while if the diet is composed largely of white bread, potatoes, milk and pastry, general deterioration ensues. 434 . Iron Food. Per Cent Almonds 0039 Asparagus 0010 Barley, entire 0044 Barley, pearled 0020 Beans, dried 0070 Meat 0030 Bread, Graham 0025 Bread, white 0009 Buttermilk 0002 Eggs 0030 Figs, dried 0030 Hazel nuts 0041 Oatmeal 0038 Peanuts 0020 Peas, dried 0057 Peas, fresh 0017 Pecans 0026 Potatoes 0013 Prunes 0030 Raisins 0021 Rice, unpolished 0020 Rice, polished 0009 Spinach 0036 Walnuts 0021 MISCELLANEOUS LESSON During peach season, collect the peach stones ? dry and crack them, using the nut for candy and flavoring of cakes, etc., instead of almonds. When watering the house plants in the windows, use a small funnel, hold close to the roots, then pour water into it. This prevents the water from splashing on the window sill, wall paper or floor. Paraffin oil, which can be purchased at any drug store for about twenty-five cents per quart, is excellent for water-proofing kitchen floors. It is applied cold, with a soft rag, dries instantly, and so is easily removed. It has been used very successfully on old kitchen floors, which had originally been painted, and from which most of the paint had been removed by wear. The oil works better on new floors. A quart of oil is sufficient for a medium sized kitchen. A most convenient and helpful hint to those preparing a large amount of potatoes for church suppers or parties, is to mash them in a bread mixer. They are as light and creamy as if whipped by hand, and only require a few minutes work. Z. C. M. I. Factory School Shoes Made on the Munson Army Last or the English Toed School Shoes FOR BOYS, YOUTHS, LITTLE GENTS The Department for renting Temple Clothes at the Bishop's Building has been closed. Hereafter people desiring suits for rent may secure them at the Salt Lake Temple. EVERYTHING FOR ELECTRICITY & AUTOMOBILE ACCESSORIES EARDLEY BROS. 1st SOUTH & 3rd EAST Phone Hy. Your Photographs Should Come From AMUNDS 249 East Main Street Better Work Because Better Equipment Established 1877 Phone, Was. 1370 STAR PRINTING CO. SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY THE BRUNSWICK-BALKE-COLLENDER CO. Carom and Pocket-billiard Tables for the home. Beautifully illustrated "Home Magnet" catalog furnished on request. 55-59 West South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Gospel Doctrine Selections from Sermons and Writings of President Joseph F. Smith. The Melchizedek Priesthood Quorums have adopted GOSPEL DOCTRINE as a text for class study for the next two years. It contains 700 pages, with a photogravure Frontispiece and autograph of President Smith. Handsome bound in cloth, $1.50 postpaid. Get the "Guide" to go with it. Price 15c. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 631 MAIN STREET The Utah State National Bank features quick and efficient service. One feature is the Unit System, which greatly simplifies transactions. Officers Heber J. Grant, President Henry T. McEwan, Cashier George H. Butler, Asst. Cashier THREE REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD ATTEND The Big 1919 Summer Quarter at the UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE 1. Courses meeting all requirements of the new Health Education Act will be given. 2. Teachers and prospective teachers will find courses that meet all certificate requirements. 3. A full quarter's work toward a degree may be secured. Spend your summer on the U. A. C. campus, the prettiest spot in one of the most beautiful valleys in the West. The Summer Quarter begins Monday, June 9, 1919. The second term begins Monday, July 21. Students may enter at the opening of either term. Many courses will run for six weeks only, and many will begin with the second term. The U. A. C. Summer Session will be the biggest quarter in the year. Complete catalog now being prepared. Write for it. Address: Director of Summer School, Utah Agricultural College, Logan, Utah. A SUMMER AT THE U. A. C.