[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | June | Issue: 8 | Title: An Exile’s Prayer | Author: S. E. R.,]

AN EXILE’S PRAYER.
		(Inscribed to F. L. J.)
Father in heaven, hear the exile’s prayer,
A prayer of thousands scattered where, oh
	where.
Our feet are weary, in strange paths we roam,
Our hearts are aching for the dear old home.
We long to see the morning sun arise
Painting in rainbow tints the deep blue skies;
The bright rays glancing through the green
	pine trees,
Their sylvan music floating on the breeze.
Just as we’ve watched and lingered many a
	year
To see a new day dawning, bright and clear,
Dispelling gloom, and every shade of night,
As in the morning of creation’s light.
We long for each loved valley, mount and plain
To hear the children’s voices there again;
The hazy moonlight, and dear evening star,
They do not seem the same, so far, so far,
From the home shrines our willing hands have
	reared
Hearts all undaunted, that no danger feared;
And Thou hast blest us, and we trust Thee
	still,
Schooling our feelings to Thy righteous will.
We long to climb the hills and gather flowers
Blooming in nature’s own sweet sunny bowers;
We long for mountain peak, and grassy plain;
We long to hear our own wild birds again.
Once more to till the soil, to sow and reap,
To cheer the hearts that sorrow now, and weep,
To gather home again our scattered band,
And help reclaim our desecrated land.
We fain would clasp each hand, and hear the
	song
Of jubilee ring out deep, clear and strong,
To gather ’neath our church’s shadowy wing
To hear our choir the songs of Zion sing.
There rest our loved ones free from every care
Beneath the waving grass, and flowers fair;
Sacred the spot, so dear to every heart;
These, too, are of our lives and souls a part.
Here by the wayside, our beloved sleep;
By the lone grave we sorrow still, and weep;
Our Father whisper peace and heal our pain,
Help us to live, until we meet again.
Fond memories cling around those days, we
	never can forget,
Where e’er we are, where e’er we roam until
	life’s sun is set;
For deep heart throbs were woven into that
	web of life,
Where mingle threads of anguish, pain and
	joy and strife.


Hearts still will throb and tremble, when love's
	fingers touch the strings;
Sweet music blend with sorrow, where a lin-
	gering cadence rings;
Our mountains, rivers, valleys cast a halo on
	the soul,
That will touch the hills eternal, when life's
	billows cease to roll.
						S. E. R.,
April 28, 1913.		Mesa City, Arizona.


[Column 1]
