[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | June | Issue: 8 | Title: Evening | Author: Unknown]

EVENING.
	This poem recently won a gold medal award-
ed by the London Poet’s Club.

Beyond all poesy, sublimity of song.
Sweet eventide, when mellow shadows throng
The valleys, and the slow, reluctant day,
On purple sandals, gliding, steals away
Into the gloaming by the sleeping streams,
A pensive spirit passing unto dreams. 
It is the hour when woods enchanted glow,
And gentle winds with dying odors blow.
From tree to tree faint pipes of evening call,
The bat sweeps circling by the ivied wall,
A lark drops fluttering to his lowly nest.
And drowsily the ringdove croons of rest.
The moan of kine has ceased, the drone of
	bees,
But ever a little stream among the trees
Speeds lightly on, and singeth as it goes,
Songs that a child at evening might compose,
Now the sun's flight is finished in the west,
Where far the great clouds veil his flaming
	crest,
The shepherd pens his weary flock away,
Safe folding laggard little ones that stray,
Bidding them browse awhile ere darkness steep
All things that move, in deep, embrowned
	sleep. 
High uplands as at early morning shine,
Sacred the light that gilds the day's decline,
As when the dawn with holy eyes appears
And opening blossoms sparkle with her tears,
For gross, foreboding day, which climbs the
	east, 
Calling the world to work, and fight, and
	feast,
The cunning day, the fierce, insistent hours
Of human strife with Nature's dreadful pow- 
	ers,
The groaning of a being chained to earth,
Although ablaze with vision from his birth.
But, come, the evening calls us, let us go,
We must not sorrow because earth hath woe.
A passion lingers in this serene air,
A passion void of triumph or despair.
Empty of storm, and hushed to calm delight,
We turn our eyes to greet the coming night.
The stars are streaming up the boundless hills,
The stars which smile at men's inconstant
	wills,
And in an opal radiance, crescent-wise,
The moon peers coldly from the limpid skies.


[Column 1]
