[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | June | Issue: 8 | Title: A Visit to Nauvoo | Author: Unknown]

A VISIT TO NAUVOO. 
	A congenial party of five friends left St.
Louis, Mo., to visit the City of Nauvoo, and
also to attend the conference of the North-
ern States Mission. We crossed the Mis-
sissippi river at Montrose boarded a gaso-
line launch, crossed the river again and
looking back viewed the Island where the
Prophet Joseph Smith sought refuge from
his enemies in times of danger, we then
turned our faces towards the historical city
of Nauvoo, made dear to the hearts of the
Latter-day Saints for the sad and beautiful
memories of the past. We truly felt we
were treading upon sacred ground, for a
Prophet of the true and living God had
here made his home for a few short years
of his momentous life. We anxiously
looked for the homes of our people, locat-
ing many of them. Sixty miles of rock
curbing outline the sidewalks, placed there
by the “Mormon” people.
	We found the people hospitable and kind,
and had no trouble in securing rooms in pri-
vate families. We started out to view the
landmarks left by our people, first visiting
the spot where the Temple once stood, built
by the people in their poverty, costing them
one million dollars. The pillars alone, of
which there were thirty, costing three thous-
and dollars each. One of them was taken
to the Capitol in Washington. At the hotel
we saw one stone of gray granite taken
from the temple, about 6 by 8 feet, with a
half moon and a man’s face cleverly carved
on one side, also a fine picture of the Tem-
ple. The ground on which the temple stood
remains bare. Nothing remains but one
old moss covered wall. I pictured my
father cutting stone as he labored here in
those early days. Near by stands a hos-
pital built of the stones of the Temple, after
the sacred edifice had been burned by a mob
of wicked men. We next visited the home
of the Prophet—the Mansion House—it is
well preserved and taken care of by a family
not of our faith, who showed us through
each room. We saw many relics of the
family, a pair of silver-bowed spectacles


[Column 1]
which they claimed the Prophet wore, also
a daguerreotype of his wife Emma.
	The house contained eight rooms and is
in good condition. We crossed the street
and saw the first house the Prophet lived in.
It is unoccupied and fast going to decay.
At the front of the door is a plain slab of
granite which marks the last resting place
of Emma Smith, the Prophet’s wife. We
also stood on the spot where the bodies of
the Prophet and his brother Hyrum lay in
state, and were viewed by ten thousand
people. Opposite is the Nauvoo House,
partly finished. All this property is now
owned by people not of our faith.
	The location of the Prophet’s home is
ideal. The land here is shaped like a horse
shoe, sloping down to the river’s edge. The
view here is inspiring, with the rolling hills
covered with green pine trees, truly an ideal
spot for a beautiful city. Nauvoo is now a
quiet, peaceful hamlet of about one thous-
and inhabitants, sleeping its life away,
where once stood a city of twenty thousand.
	We visited the old home of President
John Taylor, a well preserved red brick
building of eight rooms, occupied now by
a widow woman and her daughter. A small
store near by is rented by the Latter-day
Saints for Sunday School and sacrament
meetings.
	We then went to the Masonic Temple and
standing on the spot where the Prophet de-
livered his last address to his dearly be-
loved people, we together with one hundred
humble missionaries of the gospel, had our
pictures taken, among the number was
Brother Pitts, an elderly man who has heard
the Prophet preach many times out in the
open air.
	In the evening we attended services held
by our people in the City Hall, about three
hundred being present. The following day
being Sunday, a special fast meeting was
held, and about fifty young men and women
bore testimony of the divinity of Joseph
Smith’s mission. The Spirit of God was
there in abundance. We felt it was a priv-
ilege to bear our testimony on this occasion
to the truthfulness of the restored gospel.
It was a time never to be forgotten.
	Our next trip was to the City of Carthage,
passing the old “Mormon” cemetery, then
the farm once owned by the Prophet. We
did not wonder that he turned to take a
last look at this beautiful spot. After a
pleasant ride of twenty-two miles over a
level road, viewing the well tilled farms,
we entered the city of Carthage. A short
ride and we were in front of the solid rock
jail with walls thirty-two inches in thick-
ness, now covered with green vines. The
well curb is removed, a green lawn in its
place. Crossing the threshold of the door,
serious thoughts entered our minds as we
ascended the stairway, opened the door
dented with bullet marks and entered the
room where the blood of the Patriarch
Hyrum Smith stains the floor. These spots
stand out clear as a testimony against the
people of Illinois who had promised pro-
tection. We stood by the window, half
open, facing the east, where the Prophet
Joseph looked down the muzzle of sixty or
more rifles, and throwing his body headlong
at their feet pierced with four bullets, ex-
claimed, “Oh Lord, my God.” They never
fail who die in a great cause.
	After a short talk with the family who

[Column 2]
have charge of the place, which is owned
by our people, we returned to Nauvoo, at-
tended services, and the following day re-
turned to the city of St. Louis.
