				AURELIA S. ROGERS.

			EPHRAIM, July 26th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Minutes of a meeting held at Ephraim,
Sanpete Co., Friday, June 25th, 1875. Af-
ter the usual ceremonies of opening, Mrs.
S. N. Peterson introduced Sister E. R.
Snow from Salt Lake City. Sister Snow
said: I have long desired this opportunity
of seeing the sisters of Ephraim and talk-
ing to them. Sisters, I occupy an honora-
ble position, but the great responsibility
attending it prevents my feeling proud. If
we are true saints nothing but the true
Spirit of God will satisfy us; if not, the
spirit of the world might satisfy. When
this society was first organized by the Pro-phet Joseph Smith, in the City of Nauvoo,
it was then almost the test of fellowship; it
was the standard of character; the name of
every virtuous woman was expected to be
enrolled in the society. I have the minutes
of this First Meeting; It is a Treasure be-
yond Price. Brother John Taylor was
called to the chair. Br. Joseph and other
brethren often met with us. Br. Joseph
said he wished the sisters to take charge of
the poor, relieve their wants, comfort them
in sickness, visit the widow and the father-
less, attend to the morals of the sisters,
never indulging in profane or vulgar lan-
guage, that the sisters might become Sa-
viours on Mount Zion.
	The duty of a Secretary is to write the
history of the Society, writing nothing but
what is really necessary, getting the spirit
of the meeting, that it may be a faithful
record to those who come after us.
	Let the sisters be careful not to speak
against POLYGAMY; the kingdom of God
cannot be built up without it. Say
nothing against the UNITED ORDER, for we
shall not go back to Jackson County, neither
will Zion be redeemed, without it.
	We have heard much of the union and
the generosity of the sisters of Ephraim, of
their industry, but how much they have
done in saving souls we have not been in-
formed; for there is no record of the higher
duties. Do we realize our responsibilities?
And that we have as much to do with the
salvation of our souls as the brethren? They
can not save us, we must save ourselves.
Many sisters think there are no duties but
those of the household. But these duties
were all performed in Babylon. Why are
we called out of Babylon? The sisters in
Zion are required to form the characters of
the sons who are to be rulers and bishops in
the kingdom of God. Then, woman must
be educated, intelligent and holy. Can we
with the contracted ideas of the world,
have revelations to know that Jesus is the
Christ? That Joseph Smith was sent of
God? That Brigham Young is his success-
or? The fruits of the Spirit of God are


[Column 1]
joy, love, peace, longsuffering, patience,
meekness; faultfinding is not of God. We
must cultivate ourselves; trials are neces-
sary, we must not turn aside because of
sorrow and trial; set your mark high, do
not be weary in well doing. We must be as
gold refined, as wheat well bolted, try to
come out of the head of the bolt. There
is no wrong in being tempted. Jesus was
tempted, He overcame. There are records
kept of those who are tempted and over-
come the tempter, "They are mine, saith
the Lord God, in the day when I make up
my jewels."
	"But," a sister says, "I have been injured,
I must be revenged." Sister, be silent,
trust in God, He will repay. It is a trying
time, many of the saints are asleep, seeking
the things of the world. Mothers, make
Zion uppermost. Young ladies, we are glad
you are organized, come to meeting, learn
the laws of life and salvation, never sacri-
fice the Spirit of God to marry a Gentile.
Those young men who are hanging around
the saloons, in Salt Lake City and elsewhere,
defile their bodies with whiskey, tobacco
and foul language; they are no more fit to
be husbands and fathers than the heathen,
and many girls are just the same. I am
sorry to say they have a Gentile teacher in
Mount Pleasant. They say, O, but he is a
gentleman, he is winning the hearts of the
children; sisters, do your duty. I would
rather my children never learned a letter of
the alphabet, than have them taught by such
a teacher. Sisters, have you a saloon here?
If not, be thankful, pray your husbands to
be strong against the introduction of liquor
saloons. Make home happier, never leave
children to go to meeting, take them with
you, or leave them in good care, that you
can trust. There are many things that I
would like to speak of, but I say God bless
you; meet often, encourage HOME MANU-
FACTURE, it helps bring in the United Or-
der. I've been many years in plurality, I
would not dare to say anything against it.
Of course there are trials in it, mortals are
imperfect, they make mistakes, there is no
wrong in being mistaken. I am willing to
sacrifice my feelings for the good of others,
everything but my principles, I am willing
to lay at the feet of my Saviour, for the
higher life. Step forward and be prepared
when the angels come to talk with the sis-
ters, as they did with Sarah and Abraham.
God bless you in the name of Jesus. Amen.
	Sister Horne said: I have been sick, but
I will occupy a few minutes. I am glad to
see the brethren meet with the sisters; it
is good. I wish to speak on the plurality
of wives; it is a great blessing to those who
do right. I could not have been here if it
were not for plurality. Cultivate the spirit
of peace. God commanded men and women
to go forth and replenish the earth. We
are called to bear the spirits of men. Girls,
keep the laws of life; be obedient to your
parents. The Relief Societies are endeav-
oring to establish home manufacture, to get
straw for hats and mulberry cuttings for
silk. Ask the brethren to assist in digging
and planting, but do all you can yourselves.
Sisters, meet often together. Many men
say, "what need for women to get together
and gossip about their neighbors." Breth-
ren, come and see and understand what
Relief Societies are for. Some men say,
"my wife has plenty to do at home;" can-
not men deny themselves sometimes and
give their wives a chance? The Lord has
given intelligence to both, they are equally
dependent on each other, the man at the
head, the woman as his counselor. Presi-
dent Young has got the machinery to make
silk; let us get the mulberries and raise the
[Column 2]
silk. We have heard that you make very
handsome straw trimmings in Ephraim.
God bless you. Amen.
	Sister Howard followed on the same sub-
jects, and spoke beautifully. Sister Barney
was also present, but did not address us.
	The sisters hope to have many such meet-
ings, and pray God to bless the sisters from
Salt Lake.
	On Sunday the 27th of June, the anni-
versary of the martyrdom of the Prophet
and Patriarch Joseph and Hyrum Smith,
Brothers John Taylor, Orson Hyde,
Brigham Young, jr., Lorenzo Snow, Bishop
Canute Peterson and others, were re-bap-
tized into the United Order.
		With respect,
			AGNES S. ARMSTRONG, Sec.
	LETTER FROM KANAB, July 16th,
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The sister of the United Order of Kanab
were organized March 27th, 1875. We do
not call the organization a Relief Society
there being one in the place previous to our
organization, We call ourselves THE SIS-
TERS OF THE UNITED ORDER OF KANAB.
The object is that we may assist in the
prosperity of the Order to a better advan-
tage than we could otherwise do, and help
build up Zion.
	The organization by unanimous vote was,
Mrs. Emily J. Lewis, President; Mrs. Har-
riet M. Brown, First Vice President; Mrs.
Harriet Bunting, Second Vice president;
Mrs. Rhoda B. Young, Treasurer; Mrs. Ly-
dia Young, Secretary;
	We desire to do all we can to help to sus-
tain ourselves. We meet once a week for
working, and once a month for a general
meeting, and a good spirit prevailing.
	July 8th, we held our monthly meeting;
there were present, Bishop L. D. Young of
Salt Lake City, Brother Joseph A. Young of
Richfield, and a number of other brethren.
Brother John R. Young explained the na-
ture and object of our organization. Bro-
ther Joseph A. Young said the spirit of
these meetings is from the right source and
they are calculated to be a blessing to the
sisters; spoke of the influence wielded by
mothers in families in teaching their chil-
dren correct principles while young. Said
the United Order will eventually draw in
and embrace everything pertaining to the
kingdom, and direct and control the affairs
of the church. Said it was our duty to do
good to all the needy, whether in the church
or out of it, nurse the sick and afflicted.
Said it was the poor not the wealthy that
needed temporal assistance.
	Brother L. D. Young spoke on the same
subjects, said mothers should instruct their
daughters in household and other duties
that they may be qualified for the responsi-
ble position of wives and mothers. One
thing in particular he mentioned was, that
we should teach our children not to speak
evil of any person, and set them the exam-
ple ourselves. Jesus said, "do good to all
men;" strive to draw all around us. He
said, "my idea is, sisters, do all the good
you can, and no evil." Spoke of the neces-
sity of teaching our children the principles
of faith as soon as they can understand, im-
press it on their minds, that they may re-
tain it when they grow older. Asked the
Lord to bless us in our endeavors to estab-
lish the United Order in this place.
	President E. J. Lewis said she had been
well pleased with the meeting, thanked our
brethren for their kindness in visiting us;
wished the sisters to treasure up the excel-
lent instructions they had heard and profit
thereby.
[Column 3]
	We feel that we have truly had a feast of
good things, and after the visit of these
brethren to go to work with renewed ener-
gy, and strive through perseverance to gain
the reward laid up in store for the faithful.
			LYDIA YOUNG, Secretary.


