OUR TIME

	The day in which we live is continually quo-
ted by all classes and people, and it is some-
thing it would be well to realize as well as
quote; we belong to the time in which we live,
we are not actors in the past, our lives are in
the present and we may help to rear for our-
selves and others a character and name adapt-
ed to the age, the events, and the circumstan-
ces now transpiring. Take little heed who is
for or who against us, so we have conscience
for our pilot and the great Master-builder ap-
prove our work. But what wisdom, what faith,
what patience, what grace we need each day to
fill up the measure of duty and of work; on
each side of us are besetments to substitute
pleasure for duty, and there is an inclination
in our minds perhaps to comply with these
suggestions. We are like the mariner, trying
to steer carefully perhaps through an unknown
sea, one unexplored, and here and there the
snags, the quicksands, the dangerous places,
and the smooth shallow water even, may tempt
us upon dangerous ground. We may think, I
will venture, it may be safe, and even be-
fore we are aware we are stranded. Perplexi-
ties and troubles lie in the pathway of mortals.
	There are many helps to bear and lighten
difficulties, to guide and comfort, which are
entirely ignored by the generality of practical
people, on account of their seeming insignifi-
cance. "Kind words are jewels beyond price"
at home or abroad, cheerfulness is another
wel; let one go about with a downcast look


and he will neither satisfy himself, or benefit
others. If we desire to leave an impression of
ourselves upon the time in which we live, if
we would exert a lasting influence among our
associates, we cannot muse over our griefs, we
must be ever awake to the circumstances which
surround us, we must observe the people
among whom we live, if we would do them
good, if we would carry into their hearts and
souls a conviction of the great truths the Gos-
pel has revealed, if we would assist the rising
generation to shun those evils which have
wrought the most harm, those tendencies which
have developed into sin and crime and wicked-
ness. We cannot shut our eyes and live for
self, or idly pass away the precious moments
given us for labor and work. We must take the
current when it serves, or loose our ventures.
	Sisters awake from this stupor, this slothful-
ness, see what you can do by faith and prayer
and active work in the line of duty; bury not
in the earth the faculties assigned you to im-
prove upon, but trusting in the power of God
who has promised to sustain all those who
strive in humility and meekness to keep His
commandments. Come forward and do your
duty, heedless of criticism, for though you
may be scoffed at even, by those whose good
feelings you desire to keep, it is better to have
an approving conscience than the friendship of
any living mortal without it. 
	Do not content yourself with the idea that
your help is not necessary, that you have no
ability or talent that can be of any service in
rolling forth the kingdom of God. How many
women have thought they had no influence,
that their words and their ideas were not of
sufficient consequence to make or mar anoth-
er's happiness, or help to establish their princi-
ples, who have lived and died without benefit-
ing those with whom they were connected;
meanwhile have they left any impression?
Yes, they certainly have, that they had let the
golden opportunity pass, the precious time
go by, without appreciating their advantages,
or developing those inherent gems of
worth and richness which the God of heaven
had implanted within their souls to beautify
and elevate mortality. Sisters, let us who still
live, who have yet a day of grace granted un-
to us take warning by those, who have regretted
in their dying moments that they had not lived
better lives. Let us strive by faith, to do some
little good, to serve our fellow creatures, to help
all within our reach, embracing within our
grasp the living and the dead, for this is one
of the great features of OUR TIME that we can
minister to those who have not been favored of
God as we have been.


