	FARMINGTON, DAVIS CO., Aug. 2nd,EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In looking over the Society reports in the
EXPONENT, I find that many of the Settle-
ments have been favored with a visit from
Sister E. R. Snow and others. We also had
the pleasure of listening to Sister Snow and
Sister Presinda Kimball, at a meeting in 
this place held May 19th.
	Their coming was highly appreciated, al-
though I have been negligent in sending in
the report. The instructions we received
were similar to those given in other places-
Their whole aim is to do good, and use their
influence to get the people more interested
in Home Manufacture.
	They wished the people to set out mul-
berry trees, and go ahead in the silk busi-
ness, which I think we are well calculated
to do in Farmington, as we have persons
who understand it thoroughly, one who can
prepare it for the loom, and others who can
weave it into cloth.
	We also have a Millinery started, and are
saving something by making men's hats,
both from straw and cloth.
	Our Seventh Annual Meeting was held
June 30th, 1875, Bishop John Hess and
Coun. Arthur Stayner being present. They
talked very encouragingly, and thought we
were doing well; felt to sustain us in their
prayers, and by their presence when conve-
nient.
	A few words before I close in regard to
the reformation. We had a two days meet-

[Column Three]
ing on the 17th, and 18th, of last month, in a
grove fixed for the purpose. Some of the
Twelve and Elders from Salt Lake City
were present and told to us in plain words
where we stood, and how far we were from
living our religion. They read over the
first fourteen rules of the United Order, and
requested all those who desired to live up
to them, to be baptized and commence
anew. After meeting the bishops and some
of the leading men of Davis County were
baptized; since that time there have been
three afternoons of baptizing in this town,
and we are not through yet; which shows
that the majority want to do right.
	And that God will give us His spirit,
and help us to keep the covenants we have
made, is the prayer of
