HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	An Excellent Recipe for Washing.—8 lbs sal-
soda, 1 lb borax, 2 lbs rosin; 4 oz. salt of tartar,
3 oz. liquid ammonia. Dissolve the soda, borax
and rosin in 8 quarts of water, stand ten minutes,
then add the salt of tartar and liquid ammonia
with eight gallons of water; use one pint to a large
washing.
	Baked Tomatoes.—Select thoroughly ripened
fruit, cut them in halves: sprinkle over the cut
half with bread crumbs, sugar, salt, pepper and
butter. Place them in a baking pan, cut side up-
ward, and bake in an oven for two hours. Serve
on a platter garnished with curled parsley.
	Dessert.—Place as many crackers as may be
desired in saucers and cover with boiling water.
When all the water is absorbed, cover with thick
cream and sugar, then place a spoonful of jelly in
the centre of each and season with nutmegs. No
nicer dessert can be desired.
	Pickling Cucumbers.—We have found that as
good a way as any is to put them in salt as soon
as pickled and keep them covered with the same
till ready to use. Then freshen with frequent
changes of water, and finally scald in pure cider
vinegar, the stronger the better.
	To make an old silk look new take an old kid
glove and simmer it well in water, filling up if
necessary. For light silk a light glove, for dark
or black silk the color is immaterial. Sponge thesilk well with the liquid, which will remove all
creases and wrinkles, and iron on the wrong side
while damp; this will make it look fresh, smooth
and glossy.
	Good Pastry.—To seven tablespoonfuls of flour
add one heaping tablespoonful of lard, and one
teaspoonful of salt. Rub the flour and lard thor-
oughly together; add enough ice-cold water to
make a stiff paste; catch this lightly together with
a fork; flour the paste board well; take enough of
the paste for a pie, and roll it out quickly and gen-
tly. On the top crust drop thickly little pieces of
butter.
	How to make yeast powder; Three recipes.—
1. Take five ounces of tartaric acid, eight ounces of
bi-carbonate of soda, and sixteen ounces of potato
starch; dry them all separately in a cool oven, not
hot enough to brown them, and mix the whole by
rubbing through a sieve.
	2. Take six ounces of tartaric acid, nine ounces
of bi-carbonate of soda, and nine ounces of pow-
dered arrow root; dry them separately as before.
	3. Take sixteen ounces of corn flour and dry it
well; then mix with it eight ounces bi-carbonate
of soda, and five ounces of tartaric acid. Rice
flour can be substituted for the corn flour. All
baking powders should be kept in wide-mouthed
bottles well corked, so as to exclude all air and
damp.


