WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	LETTERS FROM ABROAD.
		42, ISLINGTON, LIVERPOOL,
						June 24th, 1875.
MY DEAR AUNT,
		Mercy R. Thompson:
	Your very kind favor of May 12th, came
to hand June 5th when I was in Borne,
Switzerland, I have not had time to an-
swer since.
	I will try to visit some of our kindred in
this old country before I return home.
When the last event will be I donot know,
any more than I do the first; and I desire to
be found doing my duty the best I can in
my weakness at all times. My health con-
tinues good.
	I am no ways doubtful about the promise
received by Grandmother Fielding respect-
ing her children, being fulfilled, any more
than I am about the Savior's preaching the
gospel to the spirits of the rebellious ante-
diluvians, but I am fearful that some of
them who have had an opportunity of hear-
ing the truth and receiving it in the flesh,
but who have allowed their prejudices to
blind their minds, and harden their hearts
against it, will have to "pay the debt to the
uttermost farthing," in the "prison house,"
before they will realize the fulfillment of the
promise. Herein may you, and those who
are in the covenant, under Christ the Head,
become propitiated and saviors unto them.
I believe too it is the design of the mighty
Creator that not only this generation, to
whom the gospel has come, but the genera-
tions of the past and of the future, shall
come and drink of the fountain of life freely
if they will. But,
		"Know this that every soul is free,
		  To choose his life and what he'll be;
		  For this eternal truth is given,
		  That God will force no man to heaven."
	I believe if there had been ten righteous
souls in Sodom, God would have spared the 
city, but they were not to be found, and
sudden destruction came upon it. "Zion
might have been redeemed even now—
were it not for the transgressions of my peo-
ple." But they have not yet learned to be
obedient to the things required, "and we
must needs be chastened until we learn obe-
dience if by the things we suffer." But be-
fore the great day of the Lord shall come
Jacob shall flourish in the wilderness and the
Lamanites shall blossom as the rose, Zion
shall flourish upon the hills, and rejoice up-
on the mountains and shall be assembled to-
gether unto the place which I have appoint-
ed." All these are being fulfilled, and the
Saints have cause to rejoice, "but many
promises seemed to have failed because of
unbelief and unrighteousness, speaking of
the church as a whole and not individuals;"
but the purposes of God are ripening, the
promises await the preparation of the
church, which will be wrought by the 
righteousness of the people; when the un-
godly tremble, and fear shall surprise the
hypocrite in Zion. Then will you realize
the fulfillment of the promises of God
through the patriarchs and prophets, wheth-
er you tarry in the flesh of ascend to the
glorious life of the redeemed Spirit. The
redeemed are Christs, and He is God's, who
is not the God of the dead but of the living.
Redemption comes by repentance and bap-
tism into Christ—the birth of the water and 
the Spirit, such are the living, whether in
or out of the flesh, and they that shall come
forth in the morning of the first resurrec-
tion, on whom "the second death hath no
power, and they shall be Priests unto God,
and reign with him on the earth." But the
unredeemed are they that are dead whether
in or out of the flesh, and they will rise not
[Column 2]
at all until the thousand years are ended.
God is not their God. In this I do not
mean redemption from the fall of Adam,
for all—even the sons of perdition, both the
evil and the good are redeemed from the 
fall, but for the wicked there awaits a "sec-
ond death." I mean the perfect redemp-
tion through the perfect and complete gos-
pel. But this you know perfectly, as well
as I.
	If I had not so much writing to do, would
try to open a correspondence with some of
our folks, and I will try as it is, if possible.
	Yours of May 23rd with note to Aunt
Ann Matthews enclosed came to hand June
14th. I forwarded it to her to-day with
the accompanying note. I cannot but think
there is a little affection in her letter to
you. She certainly received your letter of
introduction which I brought and sent her
March 24, 1874, or it would have been re-
turned. Mails are very regular and certain
in this country the English post system be-
ing as near as perfect as possible. I sent it ad-
dressed as you will see with our published
address on the envelope. Messrs. Moody and
Sanky are a couple of shrewd Yankee ad-
venturers, and are supposed to be making
great fortunes out of their religious furors.
They are the same that visited S. L. City
three years ago, and after praising our Sab-
bath school system and expressing wonder-
ful delight at the courtesies extended to
them by our people, went away rolling up
their eyes in holy horror at the terrible
wickedness they found among the Mor-
mons. I have attended some of their
meetings and sent them the "Star." Their
doctrine is "Come to Jesus—only believe
and you will be saved." It was said by the
Liverpool papers that the first week of their
visit to Liverpool the criminal dockets, in
the police court were greatly in excess of
the average; and the insane asylums have
come in for their share of religious mani-
acs caused by the excitement; all of which
are facts—but to mention it to such as Aunt
Matthews, it would be considered persecu-
tion.  The people will not endure sound
doctrine, and are turned unto fables.
			Affectionately,
				Jos. F. Smith.
		12 ISLINGTON, LIVERPOOL,
			ENG., March, 9th, 1875.
MY DEAR ROBERT B.:
	Your kind letter and valentine came to
hand this morning. I was pleased indeed
to see that you could write so well. I hope
you will continue to improve until you can
write like your grandfather Thompson and
much better than I can.
	When I was a little boy as you are now,
and should have been going to school and
learning to read, write, cipher &c. I had to
travel on the plains and camp in the deserts,
with no home but a wagon or a tent, and no
school-teacher to instruct me. And when
at last with the saints I found a home in
Utah, I was obliged to herd cattle, to plough,
irrigate, harvest and go to the canyon to
get wood and help to build a home for my
mother (your grand aunt) and had no chance
to go to school until I was a big boy and
then I went three months and three weeks;
this was the extent of my schooling. When
I started on a mission in 1854 I was fifteen
years old, and had never written a letter
in my life, and did not know how to write
a dozen words; but I began to feel the need
of an education so I studied, practised, pray-
ed and tried to learn, and have been learn-
ing at a disadvantage ever since; now I can
just write so as to be understood.
	I want to see you and my little boys have
[cOLUMN 3]
better advantages than I had and then im-
prove your time. You are blessed and you
should be good. May God bless you.
			Affectionately,
					Joseph F. Smith.


