		THE KINDERGARTEN.

	It would be impossible to attempt to give
even the most essential outlines of the
great system of Kindergarten, in one or
two brief articles, so that a perfect under-
standing of the subject could be aimed at
by those who may not be somewhat ac-
quainted with this peculiar phase of educa-
tion.
	The word "Kindergarten" is German, and
means a garden of and for children, and
was given to this institution by its inven-
tor, Karl Frederick Froebel, an educator of
great renown in Germany. But it would
be wrong to suppose that no one before him
had ever thought of putting some of these
principles into practice which led Froebel to
the development of his beautiful system
which, since its beginning, has spread not
only throughout Europe, but has also made
its benign influence felt in quite a number
of the cities of the United States.
	Lycurgus, the great lawgiver of Sparta,
800 years before Jesus Christ, already intro-
duced the idea of training chileren from a
very early age by play to the earnest work
of life. The great philosopher Plato like-
wise commended playing as a very impor-
tant factor in the education of children.
The Roman Emperor Justinian, while for-
biding all games for money, replaced them
by the innocent games of motion. The
emperor Charlemagne introduced plays
among the Germans to civilize them, as
did Peter the Great among the Russians,
and the examples of numerous other rulers,
philosophers and statesmen might be ad-
duced to show how much the importance of
plays, or learning by means of plays, has
been appreciated in ancient as well as in
modern times; by various nations and un-
der almost all conceivable circumstances.
And if I might be permitted to make a
practical illustration in the case of our peo-
ple in these mountains, the rude habits
of the majority of our children,—at least in
the earlier times of their settlement here—
may, I think, be justly traced to their non-
acquaintance with the healthy spirit of
well-directed and judiciously selected plays,
the absence of which forced them to indul-
gence in recreations of their own unculti-
vated making.
	Some objections have been raised against
the establishment of Kindergartens, among
which the reproach that it supplanted natu-
ral development by artificial training, has
been foremost. But the very generality of
this crude assertion shows the weakness of
the position, inasmuch as the kindergarten
is just the opposite by artificial training,
aiming, as it does, solely to direct and
cultivate the senses and impulses of the
child and to avoid everything not in per-
fect harmony with the laws of nature,
beauty and morality, bodily and intellectual
health, and the limited sphere of compre-
hension by the child. And in respect to
this the testimony of the great German
poet, Goethe, is perhaps not amiss for repe-
tition here. Concerning the little cuttings
in paper which he used to indulge in when
a child, guided in those plays by his moth-
er—a woman of large intellect and rare re-
finement of mind—"Goethe" says: "This
childish occupation and entertainment has
cultivated and increased within me in var-
ious ways the gift and power of invention

[Column 2]
and representation, and developed my im-
agination and fancy in such a manner as it
could not have been done, perhaps, in any
other way so effectually and with so little
effort."
	There might yet, perhaps, be raised a
question as to the expediency of carrying
out this educational plan here in our moun-
tain home. To which I simply reply: Let
such a garden be once started by a judicious,
experienced lady teacher, and its success
here, as well as elsewhere, will be the best
demonstration of its feasibility.
	"Kindergarten culture," says Miss Pea-
body, in the preface to the "Moral Culture
of Infancy, "is the adult mind entering the
child's world and appreciating nature's in-
tention as displayed in every impulse of
spontaneous life, so directing it that the joy
of success may be ensured at every step,
and artistic things be actually produced,
which gives the self-reliance and conscious
intelligence that ought to discriminate hu-
man power from blind force."
	I will now give in outline the method of
conducting the kindergarten: Of course, a
primary consideration is the teacher: She
should be a lady of very gentle manners,
intellectual attainments and good taste, ac-
quainted with music and drawing, as well
as possessed of the various domestic ac-
complishments which we expect in a lady of
cultivated mind, so that she may be able to
meet out of a well-filled store house of ex-
perience, the multifarious and continually
changing demands which capricious and
eager childhood may claim of her, and
which the very nature of her calling neces-
sitates; since her mission is not so much
for mere class-training as in a common
school where the individuality of the child
becomes more or less subordinate to gener-
al rules, but rather the study of every sin-
gle little one destined to develop under her
care. She must therefore not only control
the workings of the little heart and brain and
fingers, but understand and enter into its
sphere of thought and comprehension, by
closest sympathy guiding it, placing her-
self, as it were, not above it but alongside of
it—which position must differ in many es-
sential respects from that of the ordinary
class-teacher.
