		HOME AFFAIRS.

	The Northern Railroad is progressing
rapidly; it is expected the road will be com-
pleted before cold weather.
	THE UTAH Educational Journal for August,

[Column 2]
is well filled with interesting matter upon the
subject which it aims to sustain and advance.
Such a magazine was much needed and is wor-
thy the patronage of any intelligent commu-
nity.
	ELDER E. W. Tullidge, of this city who is
at present in New York City, looking after the
publication of his book "The Founders of
Utah," is noticed in the New York papers as a
man of talent and ability, but as being under
the spiritual control of Joseph Smith.
	TWO-DAYS meeting was held in Brigham
City, Box Elder County, Saturday and Sunday
President D. H. Wells presiding. The preach-
ing was spirited and calculated to awaken a
good degree of interest in the hearts of the
people to reform and renew their covenaits be-
fore the Lord.
	THE THEATRE opened for a short season
Thursday, Aug. 12, under the charge and
supervision of Mr. E. B. Marden; who se-
cured the services of the charming little ac-
tress Miss Jennie Lee and also the talented
comedian Mr. J. P. Bernett. The plays have
been well chosen and the performances com-
mendable.
	WE ACKNOWLEDGE the favor of a magnifi-
cent bouquet of flowers, including every va-
riety of shade and color of dahlias, as well as
other sweet-scented blossoms, and ferns. Many
thanks for the same, to Mrs. Emily Wagstaff,
of "Glendale Gardens." It is always cheer-
ing to look upon these delightful specimens of
Nature's handiwork, and when they are pleas-
ant reminders of kind friends, they have a
double significance.
	EX-BISHOP William Miller of Provo, died
suddenly at his residence Friday evening Aug.
7th; it is stated he had been working in the
harvest field a part of that day; he was first
Counselor to President A. O. Smoot. Also El-
der Alphonzo Greene died Aug. 7th, at hss resi-
dence at the half-way house, between Lehi and
American Fork; he was a man highly esteem-
ed by all who knew him for his honesty and
uprightness of character; he had long been a
member of the church and was devoted to his
religion; he was 65 years of age.
	THE NORMAL Institute which opened its
session Monday Aug. 2nd, kept up an increasing
interest during the complete term of two weeks.
Wednesday evening, Aug. 4. Prof. O. H. Riggs
delivered a lecture on education which was
highly approved by all present, as being prac-
tically adapted to the subject; and the hints to
teachers who desire to gain the good feelings
of their pupils, in order to awaken an interest
in their mental development, were worthy of
attention. Prof. Karl G. Maeser's lectures on
the Theory and Practice of Teaching have
been of the highest intellectual order, and
those who have listened from day to day can-
not fail to be impressed with the correctness of
his views upon this important subject. Prof.
Orson Pratt delivered a lecture on Wednesday
evening Aug. 11th, on the Centripetal and Cen-
trifugal Forces, which was particularly inter-
esting to those far advanced in the Science of
Philosophy. A part of the last week of the Insti-
tute, Roll Call was answered by sentiment, which
made a very pleasing variety in the routine of
the exercises. On Thursdsy the regular exer-
cises closed, and on Friday an excursion party
of the gentlemen and ladies of the Institute
with a large and select party of friends, went
to Lake Point by train, and took a ride on
the Gen. Garfield, encountered a severe gale,
but returned in safety at midnight. Saturday
the Territorial examination of teachers took
place, closing the entire session.


