SPLINTERS.

			General.
	It is estimated the loss by strikes in Eng-
land this season is over $12,000,000......
There is to be a religious paper printed in
Egypt, in the Arabic language......A mon-
ument like Humbolt's in New York, is be-
ing erected in Magnolia Cemetry, Charles-
ton, D. C. to William Gilmore Sims the
distinguished Southern novelist.....A cir-
cus exhibiting in La Crosse, Wis., was
struck by a hurricane recently.  There was
terrible tumult and confusion and several
persons seriously injured......A cyclome
passed through Harveysburg, Indiana, on
the 24th of July, five women were killed
and much damage done to property.....A
slight earthquake was felt in Hartford,
Conn. on the 28th of July, and with greater
force in the western part of the State.
			Foreign.
......The British Syrian schools for girls
which were organized in 1850 have now 2,
000 pupils.......The Emperor Francis Joseph
has sent to the Austrian Consul-General at
Venice, the sum of $2,000 for the poor.......
Armies of rats have, for several years, des-
troyed the crops of the Younjoo Karens in
Burmah......The statue of Richard Baxter,
was uuvailed at Kidderminster, July 28th:
he was a zealous laborer in the cause of re-
ligion between the years 1541 and 1660 in
that town; and the author of "The Saints
Best."......An excursion is being organized
in Genoa, to visit the international exhibi-
tion next year......The American Palestine
Expedition left London, July 10th, for Liv-
erpool, expecting to embark for Egypt "en
route" for Beyroute; Col. Lane, Prof. Mer-
ritt and Mr. Grant were with the company
.....The British and Foreign Bible Society
last year received $100,310.
			Personal.
	Judge Fisher has tendered his resignation
as U. S. District Attorney for the district of
Columbia, and ex-Governor Mills of Mo. is
to fill the vacency......Miss Mary Starley, of
London, was the originator of the Floral
Mission by which the hospitals on both of
the Atlantic are adorned with flowers which
refresh and gladden the sick......The life of
Dean Swift is being prepared for publication
by Mr. John Forster.......General Garfield is
rapidly recovering his strength, and expects
to take part in the Ohio campaign......Isaac
M. Singer the inventor of the sewing ma-
chine, died in London, July 23rd, aged 64
......Garibalda recently paid a visit to Civita
Vecchia and was most enthusiastically
greeted....Rev, Celia Bualeigh, the well
known woman suffrage advocate and preach-
er, died at Syracuse, July 27th, aged 48


TO understand the world is wiser than to
condemn it. To study the world is better
than to shun it. To use the world is better
than to abuse it. To make the world better,
lovelier and happier is the noblest work of
man or woman.


THE opportunity of making happy is
more scarce than we imagine; the punish-
ment of missing it, never to meet with it
again; and the use we make of it leaves us
an eternal sentiment of satisfaction or re-
pentence.—Rousseau.


