WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. Mary Mapes Dodge, the successful
and pleasing editor of the St. Nicholas
Magazine, is convalescing from a severe at-
tack of malarial fever and diptheretic sore
throat which seriously endangered her life.
She is recruiting in the Adirondacks.
	LADY Gordon, in her letters from Egypt,
gives a most curious illustration of their
native ideas of respectability. A boy speak-
ing of another said, "he is of respectable
family, for his mother wore a cow's tail
down to her heels, and beat him well when
he told lies, or stole eggs.
	MISS Jennie S. Clark, business manager
of the "Golden Dawn," San Francisco, has
been compelled to take a respite on account
of failing health, and will spend a few
weeks on the coast of Santa Barbara. Mrs.
U. H. Potter will transact business during
her absence.
	MISS Anna C. Brackett of New York,
read a paper on The Relations of Teachers
to the Medical Profession, before the Ameri-
can Institute of Instruction on the 9th inst.,
which has called forth considerable com-
ment and aroused a new interest upon the
subject.
	MISS Kate Hillard of Brooklyn has been
lecturing in Victoria Rooms London, and
creating an interest in her favor by her bril-
liancy, wit and ingenuity, and her ex-
cellent delivery. She intends spending part
of the summer in the Isle of Wight; in Oc-
tober she will probably return to London,
and afterwards resume her field of labor in
America.
	"MISS Ella Diety, formerly of New York,
has recently achieved a decided success on
the stage in London, and has distinguished
herself in a higher capacity—as an author
and composer of music." Recently Miss Emily
Faithful gave an entertainment to the In-
dustrial and Educational Bureau, in St.
George's Hall, Langham Place, London;
when there were several pieces introduced of
her composition. "Lessons in Harmony,"
adopted from the French, with songs, etc.
	MISS De Veges, a lady of aristocratic
blood and superior education in India, thor-
oughly versed in Spanish, French and En-
glish, and who is also very beautiful, as well


as clever, with a fortune at her own disposal
amounting to 100,000 rupees, offers herself
as a lottery prize for the sum of one lac and
10,000 rupees. The conditions are 22,000
at 5 rupees each; the lottery to be drawn
at Calcutta by herself; the winner to share
the money with her hand, or half it, with-
out, reserving for herself the same right to
refuse and divide the spoils. This is a
novel way of gaining a husband.


