FLORAL HINTS.

Dear Exponent:
	My poor flowers have of late been the vic-
tims of too much of each wind and sun-
shine. Large plants like dahlias, unless
snugly secured to a stake, or what is better,
one with a few limbs cut slant like arrows,
for the umbrageous top of flowers to rest
against and be tied too. Dahlias don't like
much shade but will stand quite a fierce
sunshine. But the soil should be made rich
and the plants kept well hoed and tied up,
and the blossom-buds picked when they "go
out," and you will have fine flowers.
	Pelagoniums, Geraniums, Pansies, violets,
Phlox and many other such plants, would
like a cooling shade and moist atmosphere
now, until the heated term is past. Every
florist should study the wants and habits of
their plants, that they may know how to
treat them, to enjoy their greatest beauty
and usefulness. Some seem to delight in a
hot, dry atmosphere, as, the Datura, (a white
chalice-shaped flower often five or six
inches across) Cactus, Yucca, and even some
of the Solanums, Asters, Petimas, Zennias
and others, while many families, like vio-
lets and pansies, would perish. Now the
flowers should be watched daily, and such
ones noted as you wish to gather seeds from
and save the seeds when ripe. Shade your
chamomile and keep it always moist, for it
only puts out surface roots that quickly dry
up in scorching sun and the plant dies.
The Caladiums are a most delightful family
of plants, with leaves marked and spotted
in may colors, as handsome as so many
flowers.
	Yesterday was a gala time. Hundreds of
Sunday school scholars with banners, colors
and mottoes, more than two score, marched
to the Tabernacle under charge of their
teachers and superintendent, M. P. Romney,
when they sang several stirring songs.
Prest. Snow, S. Miles and Col. A. P. Hardy
were the speakers; the last named in short
told of the hardships of the first settlers
and compared the then, with the desert in
bloom as now, stopping all too soon. The
hall was tastefully filled up with flowers and
evergreens and a green arch adorned with
flowers was  over the speakers.
