	SALT LAKE CITY. AUGUST 15, 1875.


[Column 1]
		A WEEK OUT OF TOWN.
	With Londoners residing in Salt Lake City,
a feeling is said to exist as of continued rusti-
cating. Not so, however, with the home raised
American, whose early life has been princi-
pally spent in the ever multiplying pioneer
settlements of Utah. To such an individual,
Salt Lake City is a city in reality, however in-
ferior to the world's great metropolis. And af-
ter a year's quiet performance of daily duties
here, in the midst of Summer's long, hot, dus-
ty days the soul wearies and begins to languish
for a season of out-door life, for the pure at-
mosphere and perfect freedom which the city
knew in its younger days but has lost amid the
continuous bustle of a rapidly growing popula-
tion and increasing wealth.
	Hence, after due consideration, about three
weeks since, we concluded to accept an invita-
tion from hospitable friends, and spend a few
days with them in Grantsville—the little
western settlement where a dozen years ago
we had a happy home.
	Among the many great changes which have
transpired within the last decade, may be
counted the building of Utah's railways. It
doesn't seem so much of an undertaking now,
to go from this city to Grantsville as it used to,
to make the journey in the opposite direction,
when it would be jog, jog, jog, over a rough
road for nearly a whole day; for the longer and
rougher part of the way is rendered enjoyable
by a short two hour's ride on the U. W. R. R.
This little ride, upon the morning of which
we write—when starting for a week's out in
the country—was particularly pleasant, as we
were favored with the company of a young
lady whose remarkable love for travel renders
her a most agreeable traveling companion.
	Miss C. thought it would be delightful to go
to the Centennial, and see so much of the
world as will there be exhibited in so small a
compass. But it would be still more charming
to visit all the places which will be represented
there, and see the specialities of different coun-
tries in their native conditions. We agreed
with her.
	Certainly if in that quiet morning ride much
pleasure could be found, and some informa-
tion gained, to travel extensively must be ex-
ceedingly pleasing and instructive. But both
sides of the question were canvassed. Fatigue
and difficulties often to be encountered, were
reckoned upon as matters of course.
	As the steamer, Gen. Garfield, lay in our way,
to pass by without a recognition of its exist-
ence, would be incompatible. Of course we
would take a sail.
	There were hours to wait after the return
of the train from the Half-way House (we rode
over there and back to Clinton's) before the
[Column 2]
steamer would sail. Plenty of time for rest-
ing, looking about, eating dinner and taking a
bath. The latter proved a very delectable way
of passing off the time; and Mrs. G., a gener-
ous hearted, fun loving lady who was present
with some "cousins from the country" added
much to the attractiveness of the occasion by
her original merriment.
	We went on board early that we might have
the better opportunity of doing justice to the
little steamer by minute observation. It has
been newly and neatly painted and fitted up,
under the directions of its present owner, Mr.
J. W. Young, improvements for the assurance
of safety have been made. Captain Dorris is a
genial and pleasant seaman.
	Before the steamer sailed, a company of
friends who came from the city by the one
o'clock train, joined us. Mrs. G'.s sister and
sister-in-law, Mrs. W. and others with whom
it is ever a pleasure to meet. Miss D., who,
without seeming to know how, always mana-
ges to make herself agreeable, told us about a
day spent on the lake in the other little steam-
er, "a day of days, never to be forgotten."
Then we returned with her, in imagination,
from tracing the happy by-gone, to the reality
of the peaceful present.
	The lake was so calm and beautiful and the
breeze so cool and refreshing, as we glided far-
ther and farther from the land, it almost seemed
as though to remain away out upon the fair,
smooth bosom of the waters, until the heat
and dust of mid-summer should have past,
would be a grateful relief.
	Then the wonders arose, whether upon the
island towards which the course of the boat
was directed, the scorching rays of the July
sun beat down with as great violence as they did
upon the shore we had left. What sort of a
place the island was, and why "John W.," or
some other capitalist, did not erect a commodi-
ous house thereupon, opposite Dr. Clinton's, to
which pleasure seekers and invalids might re-
sort for a few days or weeks at a time.
	One circumstance kept our otherwise serene
feelings slightly disturbed. We had seen noth-
ing of Mrs. H., from Grantsville, who, accord-
ing to our calculations, was to have joined us
on the steamer, or before we went on. The ir-
regularity of the mails between Salt Lake and
Grantsville had already twice balked us in our
intentions. Had our last communication failed
to reach its proper place of destination, there
was no alternative but for us to return home
by the evening train.
	After a while, a new yet familiar and wel-
come countenance presented itself in that por-
tion of the boat where we were seated. Mrs.
H.'s daughter advanced and spoke to us. It was
all right then, the team had come. And upon
the return of the boat to the landing, we were
greeted by Mrs. H. herself.
	The rest of our journey for the day was per-
formed in the old fashioned horse-team style,
and we enjoyed it greatly.
	There was a meeting of the Relief Society in
Grantsville, on the 29th of July, the next day
after our arrival there. This afforded us the
privilege of greeting many friends, both old
and new, which otherwise we should not have
enjoyed. The humble, teachable spirit which
was manifested in the meeting, spoke well for
the officers and members of both the Relief So-
ciety and the Retrenchment Association. Their
great desire to improve could not have been
more clearly portrayed than by the eagerness
they evinced to receive instruction, even from
the simplest instrument the Lord might place
in their midst.  After the close of the meeting
many cordial invitations for entertainment
were extended, many which we regretted being
[Column 3]
unable to accept. We could not refuse to meet
and spend an afternoon with some of the offi-
cers of the Society at the house of one of the
counselors; to spend a day and night with their
President, and to pass the last night of our stay
in Grantsville under the roof of still another
dear, sisterly friend. Mrs. H. was now ready
to drive with us five miles from the settlement,
up the kanyon road to the "Ranch."
	Oh the Ranch! On the way little Danny B.,
also a guest of Mrs. H., opened with us a cate-
chetical conversation.
	"How old is your baby?"
	"Thirteen months. How old are you?"
	"Seven years. How long are you going to
stay here?"
	"A week if we don't get home-sick and go
home on Sunday. How long have you been
here?"
	"Only four weeks!"
	Only four weeks! A very short period in-
deed for a seven year old boy to be from under
his paternal roof! But he was with trusty
friends, and healthier there than in town.
	Well, the Ranch. "Liberty Hall," Mrs. H.
named her dwelling there, because at that place
all friends were to do as they pleased, say what
they liked and be perfectly independent and
at ease.
	Who does not know how quickly one day
follows another in such a place? Where you can
ride on horseback, milk cows, feed the dogs
and chickens, grabble potatoes, drink butter-
milk, sing and whistle as loud and long as you
have a mind to, laugh at the "merry Andrew,"
roll on the grass, rest body and soul, and in-
dulge in intelligent conversation for a relish
without a taint of fashionable gossip in it!
	The week expired quite soon enough, and
when the time came for us to return to the
city, we no longer wondered at Danny's em-
phatic "only four weeks!" or that he declined
an invitation to accompany us home.
	There, we have probably given as detailed
an account of our week out of town as our
readers will have patience to follow us in.


