DEAR EXPONENT:
	I should like to copy after our old friend
Pipsey; and write a few things for your
pages that may be both useful and enter-
taining.
	In the first place I must tell you who Pip-
sey is; as all our readers do not take "Ar-
thur's Home Magazine."  She is a lady
I judge on the shady side of forty who
writes very entertaining pieces for it.  She
has a continual fund of information, com-
bined with sketches and items of interest.
	I am neither fat, fair nor forty, nor do I
profess to have Pipsey's talent, but I trust
that I see and know many things that
might prove interesting and beneficial.
	I am happy to see the ladies of Utah
come forward and prove to the world that
they possess both talent and integrity, that
they may no longer be judged with false-
hood and prejudice, but come forward to
make a record for themselves.
	Sister Snow, with some of her sister work-
ers in the good cause made us a visit a few
days ago.  They held a meeting and gave
us much good instruction.  She reproved
us too quite severely.  I suppose we need-
ed it.  Of course the coat did not  me,
(of course not,) She said we were asleep.
(Did she mean me I wonder)?  She said we
did not send our daughters to retrenchment
meeting. Now that was not  me for I have
none old enough to send.
	I must say a few words for the girls of
our town.  I believe a majority of them
were born on Saturdays, at least they fill the
adage to work hard for a living.  Many of
them work in the factory, some teach
school, and some go out to housework, while
others help mother at home.  I must say a
word too for mothers.  I believe many of
them would like to see their children pur-
sue a different course from what they do:
but there is so much young America about
them, and mothers are such old fashioned
people that they are not supposed to know
what is altogether proper now-a-days.
	NOW I wish all of our young people to
read the EXPONENT, so that my voice might
reach every one of them, and I would say
girls and boys too:  What are you doing?
Are you living so as to prove yourselves
sons and daughters in Zion?  Do you learn
things pertaining to the kingdom of God?
Or are your minds led away by the vain
things of the world.  Do you qualify your-
selves to become useful helpmeets to noble
men, or are your lives filled with fashion and
frivolity? If a time of trial should come
requiring sacrifices such as others before
you have made, how many would have for-
titude to make them?  How many would
stand strong in faith in Israel's God and
say: Lord we are ready, for we know that
thou wilt sustain us while this great wave
of affliction is passing by, or if perchance
our lives are spent in the endeavor, Thou
wilt bear us up to meet Thee in a home of
light and happiness above.
	The Third Ward Relief Society met at
Bro. Madsen's on June 24th, to organize a
branch Society on the Lake bottom.  Presi-
dent M. T. Smoot, R. A. Holden, and sister
Johnson and counselors met with us.
	Mrs. Anna Johnson was ordained Presi-
dent, Mrs. Mary Madsen and Mrs. I Hold-


anary counselors, under the supervision of
Mrs. M. J. Tanner, President of the Third
Ward. A general good feeling prevailed.
						   MARY.
	PROVO July 29th, 1875.


