		TIME IS PRECIOUS.

	Take care of the minutes, and the hours
will take care of themselves.  We should
endeavor to make the best use of our time:
Friends often meet, and spend an evening
or a few hours in social visit and then leave
without feeling in the least degree benefit-
ed.  Perchance we meet a friend whose
mind is stored with useful knowledge, a
few moments spent in conversation with
such a person refreshes the spirit, and gives
more satisfaction than days spent in idle
gossip so common in society.  How neces-
sary it is to improve the present moment;
in looking forward to future life recollect
we are not to encounter all its crosses at
once, every moment bears its own little
burden then flies, and is succeeded by an-
other, if one can be borne so can another,
the present moment is all we have to 
do with, the future is uncertain.  Re-
solve then, to do right. The common error
is to resolve to-morrow or next week, but
now this once we must go on the same as
ever; it is easy for the most ill-tempered to
resolve the next time they are provoked
they will will not let their metder overcome
them; but the victory would be to make the
effort at the present moment.  There is a 
transcendent power in example, we reform
others unconsciously when we walk upright-
ly.  A reform should take place, it is better
to strive and fail, than not to have a will to
strive at all.  There is no end to intelligence
that might be gained by study, by reading,
and by reflecting. This world is full of
pleasant and beautiful things; learn to
prize those priceless gems of intelligence.
Character is the eternal temple that each
one begins to rear; cultivate highly the raw
material furnished by the hearts own foun-
tain; nature in all her laws is just, then
cultivate into existence the best attributes
that God has sown in the earth of our na-
tures, which gives us independence, and not
reject the truthful monitor, the Holy Spirit;
and through obedience to every law which
God reveals, men become kings and priests,
and women queens and priestess. Study
self-improvement no matter how old we are
we can improve.  If we wish to become
noble women we must make ourselves such
by our own merits.  Sisters awake. be up and
doing, strive to live the life of saints and
the victory will be ours.
						M. J. C.
Bountiful Aug. 6th, 1875.


