	WILLARD CITY, Aug. 4th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By request of our president I send you
the following items with regard to our wel-
fare in this place. The sisters with but few
exceptions, both old and young, are mem-
bers of the Relief Society; we meet once
in two weeks. The sisters express their
desires to obey whatever counsel may be
given them from time to time. Last spring
we had a braiding school here, that the
young sisters might learn braiding; and
now the young ladies of Willard are wear-
ing hats of their own manufacture.
	On Tuesday, July 27th, we were favored
with a visit from Sister E. R. Snow and
Sister Richards from Ogden. A meeting
was held at two o'clock, in the school house;
a great deal of good instruction was given.
Sister Snow in her remarks asked the
young sisters if they would like to be or-
ganized as a Retrenchment Society? All
in the house responded that they would. A
meeting was then appointed for half past
seven in the evening and a general invita-
tion was given to the brethren, both young
and old, and also to the sisters, to attend.
	The schoolhouse was filled, and after
singing and prayer Sister Snow proceeded
to organize the young ladies. Mrs. Susanna
Lechtenberg was sustained as president of
the Society, Miss Melinda Hubbard, Mrs.
Lucey Nebeker, Miss Mary B. Cook, Miss
Mary Ann Ward, Mrs. Jane Parsons and
Miss Ellen Owens, her Counsellors; Miss
Anna Brewerton, Secretary; Miss Ann
Maria Wood, Assistant Secretary. The
young sisters gave in their names as mem-
bers, when it was motioned that the society

[Column 2]
be known as the Young Ladies Retrench-
ment Association of Willard. The meeting
was addressed by Sisters Snow and Rich-
ards. Another meeting was held on Wed-
nesday at two o'clock. Sister Snow and
Sister Richards were present and in the
course of their remarks, the advantages of
home industry, manufacturing everything
that we can, and also sericulture, were re-
ferred to; truly we had a good time and
our hearts were made to rejoice for the good
counsel we received, and it will long be re-
membered by those who attended the meet-
ings. 	Yours with respect,
	MARY ANN HUBBARD, President.
	 HANNAH COOK, Secretary.

	From Gunnison, Spring City, Cedar Fort
and Wellsville.
	We have so many reports from different
settlements that we are obliged to condense
them, and will give an item of each in this
article. From Gunnison, Sanpete County,
the report was of a meeting where Sisters
Snow, Horne, Howard and Barney were
present. The instructions of the ladies were
most eminently calculated to awaken the
sisters and inspire them with renewed zeal
and energy. The letter was an excellent
one, written by Secretary Helena Madson.
From Spring city there was a report of the
Seventh Annual meeting of their society,
which was very favorable; also an account
of a surprise party given to their President,
Mrs. M. A. Hyde, which was an enjoyable
affair. Reported by P. E. Benson, Secreta-
ry. From Cedar Fort, by letter of the Sec-
retary, Melinda Cook, we learn that pros-
perity has attended their labors in an almost
wonderful manner, and the good work the
sisters are doing is worthy the highest com-
mendation. From Wellsville there is also
a report of an Annual meeting of the Re-
lief Society, and of the organization of a
Young Ladies' Retrenchment Assocation.
	From all these the accounts are most grat-
ifying, showing that the labors of the sis-
ters are resulting in good to themselves and
all interested.

