NOTES AND NEWS.

	MR. GLADSTONE, ex. Premier of England
will publish his three essays, "The Vatican,"
"Vaticanism," and the "Pope's Speeches"
in one volume, entitled "Rome and the
Newest Fashions in Religion."
	A FEW DAYS ago, in London, a testimo-
nial was made to Mr. and Mrs. S. C. Hall,
who have been known to two generations of
English readers as contributers to literature.
The Earl of Shaftesbury, speaking for them,
referred to their writing as healthy and
sound in principle.  The testimonial begun
at the time of their golden wedding last
year, it consisted of a fund of fifteen hun-
dred pounds sterling, for their benefit, made
up by six hundred men and women in Eng-
land and America.
	ANDREW JOHNSON, seventeenth Presi-
dent of the United States, and the only ex-
President, died at the residence of his
daughter in Tennessee, July 31st, from an
apoplectic stroke.  He was a self-educated
man; married early in life, and was elected
to office when very young.  Alderman at 22
a member of Congress at 26, afterwards
Governor of Tennesee, then United States
Senator from that State.  In 1865 he was
elected Vice-President with Abraham Lin-
coln as President, and after the assassina-
tion of Lincoln, filled the highest position of
honor and trust in this country.
	MR. WADE, the British minister at Pekin,
gives the following testimony in regard to
the use of opium: "It is, to me, in vain to
think otherwise of the use of the drug in
China, than as of a habit many times more
pernicious, nationally speaking, than the
gin and whiskey drinking which we deplore
at home.  It takes possession more insidu-
ously, and keeps its hold to the full as tena-
ciously. I know no case of radical cure.  It
has insured, in every case within my know-
ledge, the steady descent, moral and physi-
cal, of the smoker; and it is so far a greater
mischief than drink that it does not, by ex-
ternal evidence of its effect, expose its vic-
tim to the loss of repute, which is the penal-
ty of habitual drunkenness.  Recently there
has been some considerable feeling in Eng-
land expressed against the opium trade, as
carried on now between British India and
China.


KNOW THYSELF—One bowing to me I'd
seen long ago, said I, Who art? he said, I
do not know; I said, I know thee, I, said
he, know you; but he who knows himself,
I never knew.


GEORGE Cury Egglestron argues that it
does not pay, as a business, to marry a rich
wife. His observation leads him to believe
that the expense of maintaining such a wife
is usually greater than the income which
her property can be made to yield.


JOSH Billings says: "If you are going to
give a man anything, give it to him cheer-
fully and quick, don't make him get down
on his knees in front of you and listen to
the ten commandments and then give him
five cents."


