[Vol8 | December 1921 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: World Happenings James H. Anderson]

World Happenings By James H. Anderson. Utah's population in 1920 was 85.8 percent native born white people. A woman's branch of the National League of Women Voters was organized at Provo, Utah, on October 28. Jews who have relatives in America are being allowed by the soviet government to leave Russia. London's (England) death rate in 1920 was 12.6 per thousand, while that of New York was 16.17. Women are more competent than men as pharmacists, is the announcement of the dean of Columbia College, New York. Floods in British Columbia, Florida, and elsewhere, in October, caused much property damage and some loss of life. A great fire in New York on November 4 destroyed extensive wharves on the Hudson river front, at a loss of over $5,000,000. Soviet Russia, thought by many people to be on the verge of collapse, does not seem to be in that condition for the present. Freight rates on grain and other farmer's products in the United States were reduced materially on November 20. Greek troops again defeated the Turkish nationalists in battle east of Constantinople the first week in November. Senator Philander C. Knox, one of the best friends the people of Utah had in the nation, died in October, aged 68 years. Autumn weather, in the western United States, was brighter, drier and warmer in 1921 than in any preceding year back to 1864. Spain still has its war in Morocco, and 20,000 more troops were sent there in November, with 120,000 additional Spanish troops called to arms. WORLD HAPPENINGS 717 Ex-Emperor Charles, of Austria, who recently endeavored to regain the Hungarian throne, is to be made an exile on one of the Maderia islands, as Napoleon was on St. Helena. Japan names as one condition of uniting in a peace movement that the United States discontinue fortifying its Pacific Islands possessions. Women learning to swim are declared by English authorities to prefer men instructors, alleging that the latter are more dependable in their work. Jewish physicians in the United States have coutributed one million dollars for the establishment of a medical college in connection with the university in Jerusalem. Aviation companies are being organized in New York and London to give an air-passenger service around the world in 17 days, in 1922. "Home brew" in the United States caused an alarming increase of premature deaths in 1921, because of the fatal poison in the immature brew. Juarez Stake academy ("Mormon") in Mexico, after being closed for several years because of disturbed conditions in the southern republic, began its 23d year with a good enrollment, on opening in 1921. Senator Reed Smoot's proposed tax system for the United States, although conceded to be the simplest and most equitable yet suggested, was not accepted by Congress in its present efforts at tax revision. Milk-wagon drivers in New York went out on strike on November 2, and as the strikers would not permit other men to take their places, a milk famine followed. David Lloyd George, British premier, could not come to America for the opening of the international disarmament conference, owing to the Irish situation, but may come later. Many thousands of coal miners in the middle western states went out on strike, on November 1, against a court order forbidding employers holding union dues out of the men's wages, for the union. 
 British wireless communication around the world is expected to be completed in 1922—England to Palestine, Mesopotamia, India, South Africa, Australia and Canada. Eugene Lyman Fisk, New York health expert, announces that owing to her physical training the present day college girl in America is the best model of perfect health. Thrift was a timely topic by President Anthony W. Ivins at the "Mormon" Church conference iri Salt Lake City, in October. His suggestions being well worthy of careful perusual, and thoughtful consideration. A Catholic priest, in a recent conversation held in Ireland with Harold H. Jenson, correspondent of the Deseret News, declared: "The Sinn Feiners will fight till every man is killed'"—a poor outlook for permanent peace in Ireland. Pharaoah's palace, where Moses appeared before the Egyptian monarch, is being uncovered at the ancient Memphis, under the direction of Dr. Clarence F. Fisher, a curator of the university of Pennsylvania, and many interesting relics have been exhumed. Distinguished visitors to the United States in November were Marshal Foch, of France, Admiral Earl Beatty and wife, of England, and General Armando Diaz, of Italy—each a chief in his class in the late world war. Countess Lastazzi (an American lady), better known by her stage name of Miss Meredith, advises American girls not to go upon the stage in France, because ''the average society man is a brute" who aims at the girls' ruin for his own base purposes. The assassination of two premiers within one month— Premier Hara of Japan and Premier Granjo of Portugal—at the commencement of November, may have serious consequences in each of those nations, particularly in Japan, in the latter's international relations. Former Senator Sutherland, of Utah, has been named by President Harding as chairman of the advisory committee of - twenty-one at the Washington disarmament conference. J. Reuben Clark, also a native son of Utah, whose fame as an international lawyer is nation-wide, is one of the technical staff of thirty-four at the conference.