[Vol8 | December 1921 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Guide | Title: Theology and Testimony - Prayer]

Guide Lessons for February LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in February) PRAYER The time: morning and evening. The place: preferdbly the best room in the house. Those taking part should face one another in a family circle: Procedure: father presides, and in his absence, the mother directs. Each member of the family of sufficient age takes turns. This practice should prevail from the day of marriage until the end of earth life. As to the matter of taking turns, children are very sensitive. One lad said to his father, 'Papa, why don't you ever give Mama a chance to pray?" A survey of the prayer habits of the students of the Brigham Young University showed more faithfulness in secret prayer than in family prayer. Relatively few were able to report that they took their turn in offering prayer in the family devotion. The survey also showed more faithfulness in attending secret prayers in the evening than. In the morning. The choice between the value of a morning and an evening prayer would seem to go decidedly in favor of the former—if we consider under which condition we need most help, awake or asleep. The Parts of the Family Prayer: The first part of the family prayer would naturally be composed of thanksgiving, pouring out of gratitude. It is quite natural and surely theological. Following this, in theological order, would come the remembrance of others. Under the instruction given by the Master we pass with love of God to love of man. See Matt. 26:37, 39. Among those never to be forgotten in our family devotion are the authorities of the Church, with special mention of the First Presidency. The value of having the prophet's name mentioned in our family devotion is greater than it is generally thought to be. Having expressed our gratitude to the Lord and remembered others before him, we come to the petition for whatever the needs of the hour of the day seem to be, and among those needs is always spiritual guidance, protection, and forgiveness. One boy in his first family prayer asked the Lord to keep scolding and quarreling out of the family for that day. This is an example of originality and frankness which should be en- couraged and practiced in our family devotion. Every day we need forgiveness and it should be asked for with a remembrance that we must forgive others. This will foster humility and charity, two of the greatest of the virtues. These petitions suited to the needs of the hour will prevent the family prayer from becoming stereotyped. While these are the three elements of the family prayer, the order of presentation will naturally be varied. Answers to Prayers: If we can know that the Lord's view of our needs is superior to our own we shall not have our faith shaken through failing to get a quick and favorable answer to any prayer. The speed with which things are attended to in heaven is often conditioned by our conduct here. Doc. And Cov. 101:7. Sometimes there are unusual obstacles thrown in the way of our receiving an answer. Daniel 10:10-13, with attention to verse 13. Sometimes an answer is withheld because of our unreadiness to receive it, and sometimes the answer comes in a way that our expectation made it as unrecognizable to us as was the Messiah to the Jews who had been praying for him to come since the days of Abraham, but we may be certain that no consistent petition sent on the wings of faith from earth willl ever be thrown into the waste basket of heaven. Some Things to Think and Talk About: 1. Prayer is the simplest and surest way to form a loving acquaintance with the Lord. 2. Praying only when we are in distress is unmistakable evidence of both ingratitude and weakness. 3. Praying with our children will affect their salvation more than praying for them. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What do you think of this proposition: If parents neglect the Lord, their children will be apt to neglect them? 2. What was the occasion of the first prayer, and who took part therein? Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses, Chapter 8:44, first sentence. 3. Does this scripture indicate that this prayer was a family prayer? 4. Would an occasional concert prayer be advantageous in the family circle? 5. Wherein is the forming of a family circle, of devotional value in prayer? 6. Emulate the essential contents of the family prayer. 7. Which part of the family prayer prevents the service from becoming monotonous? 8. What are the difficulties in the way of regularity in family prayer, and how may they best be overcome?, Why should the ward teachers know whether we attend to our prayers or not? 10. What is the value of an intelligent "amen" to a group prayer?