[Vol8 | December 1921 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial The Years Old Age]
We  have  been  organized  for  nearly  seven  years  and  there

684  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
has  never  been  a  word  of  unpleasantness  passed  between  any 
of  us,  there  has  never  been  any  discord.  I  do  not  believe  there 
has  been  an  unkind  thought  between  any  of  our  board  mem- 
bers. 
After  prayer  we  have  roll  call,  and  after  the  roll  call,  we 
stransact  our  business.  Next  we  receive  the  reports  from  all 
of  the  board  members  who  have  visited  the  wards,  and  it  is 
surprising  the  different  ways  in  which  we  size  up  a  situation; 
we  find  that  we  can't  judge  an  organization  fairly  by  one 
person's  opinion.  While  one  of  the  board  members  will  see 
a  strong  point,  probably  another  visitor  will  see  a  weak  point. 
It  seems  to  me  it  gives  us  a  better  opportunity  to  judge  what 
condition  the  wards  are  in  by  reports  from  the  various  offic- 
ers. If  there  is  any  time  left  we  ask  for  suggestions  as  to 
what  can  be  done  to  benefit  the  whole  stake.  After  this  we 
have  lesson  work,  which  has  been  carefully  prepared.  In 
the  meeting  there  is  no  whispering,  no  conversation. 
MRS.    LAURA   J.    ADAMSON. 
In  one  of  our  board  meetings,  President  Hale  once  told  us 
that  efficiency  means  three  things :  to  know  our  work,  to  know 
how  to  do  it,  and  then  to  do  it.  In  our  board  meetings  we. 
come  together  to  learn  our  work,  to  learn  how  to  do  it,  and 
go  forth  from  there  to  do  it.  I  have  often  been  interested  in 
standing  down  on  South  Temple  and  watching  the  News  run 
through  the  press,  and  the  thought  has  come  to  me  that  back 
of  that  finished  product  there  is  a  working  force,  a  brain 
power,  that  is  directing  that  work — that  finished  product.  In 
our  stake  board  I  think  our  stake  work  is  likened  to  that 
power.  In  our  board  meetings  the  force  is  generated  that 
carries  the  work  on  to  the  wards.  I  have  been  visiting  the 
hospital  very  often  lately.  I  have  been  interested  to  see  the 
precision  there,  and  the  splendid  management.  The  thought 
has  again  come  to  me  that  back  of  that  there  is  a  power  that 
I  do  not  understand  or  even  come  in  contact  with,  and  again 
it  has  come  to  me  that  in  our  work  our  stake  board  might  be 
Hkened  to  that  force.  I  believe  the  success  of  stake  board 
meetings  depends  upon  every  member  of  the  stake  board.  I 
blieve  that  in  our  stake  the  success  of  our  board  meetings 
has  been  through  our  executive  meetings.  We  have  held  this 
year  an  executive  meeting  one  week  and  board  meeting  the 
following  week.  The  problems  that  we  wish  brought  up  in 
meeting.  I  jot  down  in  my  notebook  the  topics  we  wish  discussed, 
which  helps  greatly  to  economize  time,  and  adds  to  the  success  of 
the  meeting.  I  believe  the  presiding  officer  should  know  every 
detail  of  the  work  that  is  to  be  taken  up  in  that  meeting.     She

CONFERENCE  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  685 
should  not  depend  entirely  upon  her  secretary.  It  should  be 
noted  down,  and  she  would  know  which  are  the  most  important 
and  least  important  of  the  topics  for  that  day,  and  economize  her 
time  accordingly.  I  believe  the  board  members  should  do  their 
visiting  after  the  meeting  is  out  and  not  during  the  meeting. 
The  order  of  our  meeting  is  very  much  like  that  of  the  sister  who 
spoke  before  me.  We  have  our  prayer,  roll,  and  minutes,  and 
then  the  correspondence  from  our  General  Board  and  from  our 
wards  is  taken  up.  After  the  correspondence  has  been  dispensed 
with,  we  have  reports  from  our  sisters  who  have  visited  wards. 
After  this  we  have  the  head  of  each  department  report.  We  have 
our  board  organized  as  follows:  president  and  teachers;  secre- 
taries and  treasurers  department;  enlistment  committee,  temple 
and  burial  clothes,  music  committee,  Magazine,  and  work  day 
activities.  Any  new  business  that  we  wish  to  take  up,  such  as 
planning  for  conferences,  or  whatever  new  business  we  have,  is 
then  discussed.  We  have  always  done  this  in  our  board,  so  that 
each  member  might  be  informed  as  to  the  work  of  every  com- 
mittee, and  give  the  head  of  each  department  a  day  to  present 
their  work  to  the  board.  We  go  over  that  and  discuss  it  so  that 
each  board  member  is  familiar  with  the  work.  We  have  a  set 
time  for  our  meetings.  I  believe  that  the  success  of  a  board  meet- 
ing depends  as  much  upon  the  board  members  as  upon  the  presi- 
dency. The  members  should  come  with  something  to  contribute 
to  the  meeting.  We  have  found  that  it  is  helpful  to  preview  or 
assign  the  work.  To  announce  the  work  to  be  considered  at  the 
next  meeting,  and  to  impress  the  members  with  the  thought  that 
they  are  expected  to  come  with  something  to  contribute,  has  helped 
us.  We_  economize  our  time  by  staying  with  one  subject.  When 
one  subject  is  brought  up  we  stay  with  that  subject  until  it  is 
finished,  which  is  conducive  to  business  like  methods.  In  small 
boards  such  as  ours  it  is  hard  to  make  the  meeting  formal,  but 
I  imagine  where  you  have  large  boards  it  is  best  to  follow  as  far 
as  possible,  parliamentary  rules.  Board  members  should  keep 
sacred  the  things  taken  up  in  their  meetings  and  keep  counsel. 
As  far  as  I  have  been  able  to  watch  progress  in  our  board,  we 
have  developed  leadership  by  placing  absolute  responsibility  upon 
the  heads  of  the  departments.  When  questions  arise  in  the  ward 
that  pertain  to  a  department,  they  are  referred  to  this  department. 
This  develops  initiative  and  leadership.  Sometimes  in  our  ex- 
ecutive meetings  problems  have  seemed  almost  unsolvable  but  we 
have  been  cleared  in  our  stake  board  meetings  with  thoughts 
from  various  members.  The  psychology  of  group  work  has  been 
wonderful.  All  minds  are  put  in  unison  by  prayer  and  when 
they  are  all  in  tune  inspiration  comes  that  helps  solve  our  problems.

686  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
Mrs.  Jennie  B.  Knight,  of  the  general  presidency,  explained 
briefly  the  method  pursued  by  the  general  board  in  doing  its 
work,  which  was  followed  by  reports  on  the  Relief  Society  Maga- 
zine, by  Mrs.  Susa  Young  Gates,  editor,  who  read  answers  to 
questionaires  sent  out  by  the  Magazine ;  Mrs.  Jeanette  A. 
Hyde,  business  manager,  spoke  of  the  splendid  support  the 
Magazine  has  recived  from  the  loyal  Relief  Society  workers,  and 
of  the  desire  of  the  Magazine  to  give  good  service. 
The  establishment  of  a  memorial  loan  fund,  in  honor  of  the 
late  Emmeline  B.  Wells,  was  brought  up  for  consideration  before 
Relief  Society  stake  presidents  in  the  Relief  Society  semi-annual 
conference  in  the  Bishop's  Building,  by  Clarissa  S.  Williams.  In 
recognition  of  long  years  of  work  in  the  interest  of  the  Relief  So- 
ciety, of  which  she  was  for  many  years  president,  and  of  her  un- 
tiring efforts,  in  the  interest  of  uplift  and  education  of  women,  a 
resolution  of  the  general  board  for  the  establishment  of  a  fund 
was  unanimously  adopted  by  the  stake  presidents,  and  a  copy  of 
it  was  read  with  the  following  letter  to  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity, to  which  institution  the  fund  will  be  given: 
"Desiring  to  honor  and  perpetuate  the  memory  of  their  late 
beloved  president.  Dr.  Emmeline  B.  Wells,  who  was  a  faithful 
and  devoted  Relief  Society  worker,  and  for  many  years  the  gen- 
eral president  of  the  organization,  and  who  was  an  earnest  advo- 
cate of  the  education  and  development  of  women,  the  Relief 
Society  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  wishes 
to  establish  at  the  Brigham  Young  University,  from  the  General 
Treasury,  a  loan  fund  for  girls,  to  be  known  as  the  Emmeline  B. 
Wells  Relief  Society  Memorial  Loan  Fund. 
"The  Relief  Society  wishes,  as  a  beginning  of  this  fund,  to 
give  five  hundred  dollars  ($500)  with  the  idea  that  as  time  goes 
on  the  fund  may  be  added  to.  The  society  desires  to  have  this 
fund  used  for  loans  to  worthy  women  of  the  upper  college  classes 
who  need  and  deserve  financial  help  in  order  to  complete  a  col- 
lege course ;  also,  that  the  fund  be  lent  and  managed  in  accord- 
ance with  the  best  business  principles  and  at  the  current  rate  of 
interest.  The  interest,  it  is  thought,  will  help  to  insure  prompt 
payment  and  to  increase  the  fund. 
"While  the  Relief  Society  makes  these  suggestions,  the  actual 
details  of  the  handling  of  this  fund  are  hereby  left  to  those  who 
handle  the  finances  of  the  Brigham  Young  University." 
The  letter  was  signed  by  Clarissa  S.  Williams,  Jennie  B. 
Knight,  and  Louise  Y.  Robison,  general  presidency. 
Counselor  Louise  Y.  Robison  reported  the  Burial  Clothes  De- 
partment in  good  condition,  and  invited  the  visitors  to  call  and 
inspect  the  clothing.  She  said  the  workers  would  be  on  hand  to 
give  help  or  advice,  and  that  if  any  of  the  stakes  contemplate

CONFERENCE  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  687 
putting  in  departments,  the  general  department  would  be  pleased 
to  give  any  advice  or  instruction  needed. 
Counselor  Jennie  B.  Knight  announced  and  recommended  the 
following  courses  in  nursing:  one  year  Relief  Society  nurses'  ai^^s 
course  given  at  the  L.  D.  S.  Hospital,  where  ten  nurses  are  needed 
each  August  and  ten  each  February;  the  three-year  regular  course 
at  the  L.  D.  S.  and  Dee  Hospitals,  and  the  three-year  course  given 
at,  the  Salt  Lake  County  Hospital.  She  spoke  of  the  splendid 
training  offered  in  these  institutions,  and  urged  Relief  Society 
women  to  make  an  effort  to  get  young  women  in  the  various  com- 
munities interested.  Further  information  on  nurse  training  may 
be  had  by  writing  the  office. 
The  secretary  reported  the  following  reorganizations  since 
April  Conference : 
San  Luis  Stake.  April,  1921 — Mrs.  Johanna  M.  Harrison, 
resigned ;  Mrs.  Martha  Haskell,  appointed. 
Morgan  Stake,  July  24 — Mrs.  Maryette  R.  Waldron,  re- 
signed, Mrs.  Mary  Chadwick,  appointed. 
Burley  Stake,  August  28 — Mrs.  Lucenia  Smith,  resigned ; 
Mrs.  Margaret  Cutler,  appointed. 
Cassia  Stake,  August.  1921 — Mrs.  Jubeltine  L  Jack,  re- 
signed ;  Mrs.  Effie  H.  Walker,  appointed. 
Benson  Stake,  September  25,  1921 — Mrs.  LaPriel  G.  Hyer, 
resigned ;  Mrs.  Mary  M.  Funk,  appointed. 
Beaver  Stake,  April  17,  1921 — Mrs.  Cedaressa  C.  Shepherd, 
resigned ;  Mrs.  Susan  J.  Murdock,  appointed. 
Twin  Falls  Stake,  May,  1921— Mrs.  Ann  Roberts,  resigned ; 
Mrs.  Kate  Kirkham,  appointed. 
California  Mission,  May,  1921 — Mrs.  Louissa  W.  Jones,  re- 
signed ;  Mrs.  Margaret  K.  Miller,  appointed. 
Eastern  States  Mission,  Sept.  1,  1921 — Miss  Edna  Hardy,  re- 
signed ;  Miss  Mabel  Holmgren,  appointed. 
European  Mission — Mrs.  Lucy  Woodruff  Smith,  resigned; 
Mary  Wells  Whitney,  appointed. 
Hawaiian  Mission— Ellen  C.  Cole,  resigned ;  May  Smith,  ap- 
pointed. 
Organizations:  Australian  Mission,  May,  1921 — Miss  Edith 
Eillsea,  appointed. 
The  course  of  study  for  1922  was  also  announced :  Theology. 
Religion  in  the  Home ;  Literature,  L.  D.  S.  Hymns ;  Social  Ser- 
vice, Home  Making. 
After  singing,  "The  Spirit  of  God  like  a  fire  is  burning,"  the 
benediction  was  pronounced  by  Mrs.  Margaret  W.  Manning.