[Vol8 | December 1921 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature - George Careless Compositions]

LESSON III Literature. (Third Week in February) Professor George Careless, noted composer and musician, has made a contribution to the hymns of the Latter-day Saints that is invaluable. In a recent conversation with Professor Careless, he said that he had set the music to seventy L. D. S. Hymns. Much of this music has been composed for special occasions. It is the purpose of this lesson to devote itself to some of these compositions. George Careless reached the valleys of the mountains in the year 1864. He had traveled from London to New York on a sailing vessel called Hudson. When they were near landing, -indeed so near to it that the effects of the ship were packed, the captain of the vessel asked Professor Careless to compose a piece of music for him. Consenting to this request, Professor Careless looked about for some place where he might rest his paper while he wrote. Finally, he discovered a barrel of bacon in the corner of the ship. He immediately made use of it, and on it wrote the music of "The morning breaks, the shadows flee," which he called Hudson. Professor Careless had been the leader of the London choir in the London branch of the Church. On the vessel with him were a group of persons who had sung in that choir. He called them together, and they learned the music quickly, and sang it to the captain. The composer presented the captain with a copy of the music before leaving the ship. It is beautiful music, set to beautiful words, and its name suggests one of America's most beautiful spots. In the month of August, 1870, a very important debate took place in the Salt Lake Tabernacle. This debate was between Dr. J. P. Newman, of Washington, D. C. And Elder Orson Pratt of the Council of Twelve. Rev. Newman was well known because of his connection with the United States Senate, having served as chaplain of that body, while Orson Pratt was very generally looked upon as a profound student and an orator of very exceptional ability. Professor George Careless, director of the Tabernacle Choir at that time, tells us that the Sunday prior to the debate, President Brigham Young called him aside and said, "Brother George, the people will be very timid next Sunday, because of Mr. Newman's great reputation, as a preacher, therefore, I want you to sing something that will hearten and give courage to the congregation." Professor Careless tells us that he sat down in one of the choir seats and composed a piece of music on the spur of the moment. He called it "Courage" and set it to the words "Hark listen to the trumpeters." It was sung for the first time when the great assembly met to listen to the speeches that opened the famous debate. This music may be found in the L. D. S. Psalmody, published under the caption "Courage." The brief time consumed in its composition reminds one of the fact that Nevin is reputed to have written the music to the "Rosary" in fifteen minutes. Professor Careless has always exhibited a great deal of genius in writing music for special occasions, certainly this incident is no exception to the rule. In the exquisite music of "Rest for the weary soul," set to the words written by Henry W. Naisbitt, we bring together, as in "The morning breaks, the shadows flee," words and music by an L. D. S. Author and composer. This music was written to be sung at the funeral services of Joseph Young, the eldest brother of Brigham Young, who was connected with the First Council of Seventy, the father of Dr. Seymour B. Young, and the grandfather of Professor Levi Edgar Young. Later, it was sung at the service of Joseph Standing, the first martyr of the Southern States mission. The combination of Henry W. Naisbitt's words and the Careless music has produced an effect not often reached in funeral hymns. This hymn has been sung at the graves of many people connected with the Latter-day Saints Church, and with many not of its number. The key note of the entire hymn is Rest. The first stanza suggests rest from physical pain and exhaustion. The second stanza tells us that the battle of this life is over, then follows the equisite figure, Rest, where the gates are closed With each evening's setting sun. The third stanza i sdevoted to the thought of that peace that pervades the heavenly domain, "Peace, where no strife intrudes" Death brings to an end the struggle Of our "wild life's busy hum." The fourth stanza carries the same thought as the third, the thought of peace, and adds that death frees the oppressed, and closes with the effective lines, "For the angels guard those well Who sleep on their mother's breast." The last stanza is a fitting climax to the hymn, it suggests peace and music, and finally the resurrection morn where "life's victory is won." From a purely literary standpoint two features distinguish this hymn. First, there is a mingling of the thought and feeling of rest and peace; secondly, the style, and under this head we note the diction, but particularly a group of effective figures of speech which, coupled with the thought and feeling, raise the hymn at times into the realm of poetry. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Give a brief sketch of the life of George Careless. Material to be found in Jenson's Biographical Encyclopedia. 2. Give names as nearly as possible of the persons who have served as conductors of the Tabernacle Choir. 3. Discuss the proposition: The Tabernacle choir, an important factor in establishing the musical prestige of this intermountain country. 4. What does it mean to be chaplain of the United States Senate? 5. Have the words of "Hark, listen to the trumpters" read to the group; have the organist play the Careless music, "Courage.' Listen carefully to both words and music, and see if you think the composer accomplished his purpose, that of producing a hymn that would inspire courage. 6. Give a brief sketch of the life of Henry W. Naisbitt. 7. Name the hymns in the Latter-day Saint hymn book attributed to his authorship? 8. What does the poet mean when he speaks of sleeping on mother's breast? 9. What words of the hymn carry the note of hope? 10. Discuss this proposition: A funeral hymn failing to carry the note of hope, fails in its purpose.