Mother as a Teacher of Religion John Quayle An abundance of faith in Deity is the blessed portion of womankind. Woman's intuition, which so often points the way in moral and material matters, also gives the assurance that a kind Father rules in the heavens. Do you know a man who has not felt this sweet assurance to his betterment? In motherhood a woman's nurturing hand seems to impart her potent faith in a new and more assertive manner. "Come here, dear, that will soon be all right,'' she says to her child as the little one comes sobbing to her after some painful mishap. And in her soothing words and caress there is the ever present assurance that this is God's world, that He is good, life is sweet, and along life's pathway are many joyful lessons. In a thousand ways she plants the seed of faith in her own. The spirituality gained through mother is beyond price. No man, however great, has risen to heights of spiritual at-. Tainment that have surpassed the teachings of a good mother. Men may forget them, and degrade themselves, but the teachings of mother are sublime. How often the tribute is paid to mother when men of prominence are heard to say, "I have an abiding faith in God?a faith that has endured since it was planted within me at the knee of my mother." To the "Mormon" people there is an added significance to the faith which our mothers impart, for it is by this faith that we shall light the shadows which fall from the mountain of Babylon in our midst. It is this faith which can remove that mountain, for we can impart living faith to the world. EDITORIAL  Motto?Charity Never Faileth  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor;: Clarissa SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor -Alice Louise REYNOLDs Business Manager: - - JEANETTE A. Hyde Assistant Manager: - - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt. Lake City, Utah Vol. X "OCTOBER, 1923 No. 10. Our Obligations to the Dead Recently we had a visit from Dr. Edward T. Devine, of New Yerk, the noted social worker, who holds out to us the possibility of the abolition of poverty, disease and crime. There may be persons who will question such a possibility, but most enlightened people will agree that if these things cannot be abolished, they can, at any rate, be greatly reduced. The putting over of such a program, to employ the phraseology cf the present day, will require the best work of the best people in every community in the entire land. The dedication of the temple in Canada reminds us, in no uncertain way, that we have serious obligation to the dead as well as to the living. The bondage of the dead may not be the bondage of poverty, disease or crime, but it is a bondage just as real, fer it is the bondage of gross spiritual darkness that cuts off those thus bound from the presence of their Maker and their Redeemer. If they shall, in the course of time, be released from their prison house; if, in the future it shall be given them to stand in the presence of their Maker and their Redeemer, it will be because those cf us who are living shall be zealous in entering into the temples of the Lord and performing, on their behalf, the gospel ordinances. This, too, is a most' ambitious program. The Latter-day Saints stand at the parting of the ways; on the one hand are the living who need their constant ministrations in matters both temporal and spiritual; on the other hand, there are the 
 "great uncounted dead" who are to be redeemed. Surely, never before has there been opportunity for such manifold service. Surely there is no Latter-day Saint living who has time to fritter in useless occupation. Women and Higher Education Oberlin College, in the state of. Ohio, has the unique distinction of being the first college in the United States to open its doors to women on equal footing with men. One of the first women to take advantage of this then very extraordinary occurrence was Miss Lucy Stone, afterwards widely known as Lucy Stone Blackwell. In course of time she was graduated from the college. During her last year at Oberlin, she wrote a paper that excited the admiration of the faculty. They were proud of her achievement, and wished very much to have it read at the commencement exercises, but, being wholly unused to the thought of a woman on the platform, they tried to arrange to have it read by one of their own number. When Miss Stone became acquainted with the plan, she protected the injustice of the whole affair, saying that if she was to be denied the privilege of reading her own paper, she would not consent to its being read by anyone else. Some time after this event, Miss Stone was invited to deliver the commencement address at Oberlin College. She was asked while there how she felt the movement for the emancipation of women was progressing, and she replied, "It is certainly making progress, for when I first began campaigning for women's rights," and Miss Stone always emphasized the educational phase of her subject, it was customary to throw rotten eggs at me; now at least, the eggs that are hurled are fresh eggs." It is a far cry from the time when Lucy Stone was refused permission to read her own paper in the commencement exercises at Oberlin College, and the day in which we are living. In this issue we present a brief sketch of the life of Miss Ada Louise Comstock, who has recently come to be the new president of Radcliffe College. Today the majority of the colleges in the United States confer degrees on women, and even so conservative an institution as Yale admits women to its graduate school. There is scarcely a college in the United States that has not one or two women on its faculty?Columbia, Cornell, Chicago, Michigan, Minnesota, University of California and Stanford University, all have women associated with their faculties, and even conservative Harvard has a woman in its medical department, while Florence Rena Sabin is professor of astronomy in Johns Hopkins University.
It is about one hundred years since girls were first admitted
EDITORIAL 493
to high schools in the United States; now there is a veritable army of young women studying in the thousands of high schools in this country. It is particularly gratifying to note the number of women who have received honorary degrees of late years. The supposition is that no honorary degree is conferred except in recognition of real achievement. Conspicuous among those who have recently received honorary degrees are Madame Curie, Edith Wharton, Mary Emma Woolley, and Ada Louise Comstock. At a recent meeting of the National Education Association, held in San Francisco and Oakland, one of the speakers made this reference to scientific research: 'Within eight years," said the speaker, "it has been learned that there are 3,000,000 stars, and one woman has catalogued more than 200,000 stars." There are probably some people living today who think it entirely inappropriate for a woman to study astronomy, but there are fewer people now than ever before who hold such an opinion. A large group of forward-looking and enlightened people are grateful for America's three astronomers among women, Maria Mitchel, dead, and Ann J. Cannon and Florence Rena Sabin; and above all else they are grateful for the fact that one woman has been able to catalogue 200,000 stars that form a part of the great universe of which we are also a part. Great as has been the advance made by women in higher education, we feel that it is the future that is big with promise.
Utah's School Buildings
Dr. James E. Talmage relates that when he was a young man in his early teens, he was performing an educational mission through the state of Utah, as an assistant to Dr. Karl G. Maeser. He said that President John Taylor admonished Brother Maeser that he go through the state and tell the people that the time would come when the best buildings in their localities would be their school-houses. Turning to Elder Talmage, President Taylor said, "You young man. Prophesy to the people and tell them these things." Elder Maeser and Elder Talmage went on their mission and delivered to the people President Taylor's message. Elder Talmage informs us that the people heard the message but were skeptical, due, no doubt, to the fact that the school-houses throughout the country at that time were, as a rule, unattractive and shabby, notwithstanding the fact that they were making great sacrifices for the education of their children. He said he knew from the expression on the people's faces that they did not take the message to heart. This incident was related to us during a recent visit to the


Gunnison stake, where the conference convention was held in the new high school building, which is not only attractive, but gives evidence of being up-to-date in lighting, ventilation, decoration, and in the matter of being built. On the ground floor. The day that President Taylor saw in vision has arrived. Everywhere over this broad land are educational buildings that are palatial in their architecture and appropriate in all their appointments and furnishings. This feature of our educational development has been commented upon time and time again by educators from various parts of the United States who have assembled in Utah for special conventions, as well as by those who have been brought from abroad as special lecturers. Utah has just reason to be proud of her school buildings.
America's Educational Magnanimity
It is a very usual experience at the present time to open one of the current magazines and find either through word or cartoon very strong intimations that Europe feels that the United States is not performing her part in assisting to rehabilitate her since the war. Whatever may be the opinion of individuals or even of nations in respect to this matter, we feel that all must recognize that America has shown a very high degree of magnanimity in restoring the new wing of the library at Louvain. This wing has been financed, designed and built by Americans. Few outrages perpetrated during the world's war incensed the public mind more than did the destruction of the Library at Louvain, which deed Cardinal Mercier said was done "in a fit of criminal folly." Only one wing of the Library is completed and this one wing is but one-fourth of the total construction, which was planned by the American architects Warren & Wetmore. The remainder is to be built by 1925, at which time the University will celebrate its fifth centenary. The building is in the style of the Flemish renaissance architecture, which is in keeping with the spirit of the old university. One-half million volumes have been supplied for the new building from one source and another, and at the opening ceremonies it was announced that through a gift from the Educational Foundation, funds would be supplied that would make possible the purchase of 1,200,000 more volumes. The ravages of war which are always inspired by a spirit of hatred and revenge are being replaced by a spirit of magnanimity carried from the new world to the old. What is so deeply regretted is the fact that it is quite impossible to restore books and manuscripts that were destroyed in a moment of wild fury. But
EDITORIAL 495
at least what can be done has been done through good will and generosity, which has led many people to contribute to this worthy cause. We would ask our European friends who are inclined to be distressed in their feelings at what they please to term America's aloofness, not to forget that she has stretched her hand across the water and is making possible the reconstruction of one of the greatest Libraries that the world has ever known.
PROVING HIS POINT
The old Scotch professor was trying to impress upon his students the value of observation. "No," he complained. "Ye dinna use your faculties of observation. Ye dinna use 'em. Fer instance?" Picking up a pot of chemicals of horrible odor he stuck a finger into it and then into his mouth. "Taste of it, gentlemen," he commanded, as he passed the pot from student to student. After each had licked a finger and had felt a rebellion through his whole soul, the old professor laughed in triumph. "I told ye so!" he shouted. "Ye dinna use your faculties of observation! For if ye had observed ye would ha' seen that the finger which I stuck into the pot was na the finger which I stuck into my mouth."?Chicago Tribune.
AIN'T IT FINE TODAY? James Whitcomb Riley
Sure, this world is full of troubles? I ain't said it ain't, Lord, I've had enough and double Reason for complaint; Rain and storm have come to fret me, Skies are often gray; Thorns and brambles have beset me On the road?but say, Ain't it fine today?
It's today that I am livin', Not a month or so ago, Havin'; losin'; takin'; givin'; As time wills it so. Yesterday a cloud of sorrow Fell across the way; It may rain again tomorrow; It may rain?but say, Ain't it fine today?