Who Once Has Climbed a Mountain Pansye H. Powell Who once has climbed a mountain knows the thnill Of. Him who struggles ever on, until A goal is reached. He stands there strangely tall And stretches to touch the sky. He feels that all The universe is spread before his eyes, And earth is just one step from paradise, Who once has felt high wind upon his face And warmth of sun conferring healing grace, Will always know the elemental peace That brings the mountain climber earth-release. He walks more softly, will more kindly speak, Who once in life has climbed a mountain peak. Gn Mlemoriam— &lder Albert 6. (Bowen (October 31, 1875 - July 15, 1953) Elder Mark E. Petersen Of the Council of the Twelve THE people of the Church and of the entire West will sorely miss Elder Albert E. Bowen of the Council of the Twelve who passed away at his home in Salt Lake City, Wednesday morning, July 15, 1953. But even in death his steadying hand will bear its wholesome influence upon those who knew him. His common sense, his stability of - character, his humor, his fairness, and his simple faith will linger through the years to further shape the lives of those who were fortunate enough to be within the circle of his influence. Brother Bowen literally "arose from the soil." He was farmerborn, he learned on the ranch what it meant to bear responsibility, what it meant to work. He had stability so characteristic of the soil and those who work it. There he learned to appreciate the simple but wholesome things in life, and the value of honesty, integrity, and straightforwardness. He dealt in plainness with his fellows. He was a man without guile. Brother Bowen was a self-made man in the same sense in which Abraham Lincoln was self-made. He, too, had to struggle for his education. He, too, knew the taste of disappointment. He, too, ate "humble pie." But, also, he arose to heights among his fellows. With Page 582 ELDER ALBERT E. BOWEN high honors, he graduated from 4 great university as a doctor of jurisprudence and rose to the crest of the legal profession. Yet in it all he was human, humble, understanding, and true. Great as was his powerful intellect, wide as was his learning, his heart was greater. He had a love which ran deep. It embraced his country, his Church, his friends, and most of all, his family. He constantly gave of himself for others. He did not die for them—but he lived for them. Literally he gave his life—all the years of it—for others. Is there greater love than that?