Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, September 1, and September 15, 1893 "FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN oF ALL NATIONS" THE SAVING OF GRAIN: Sisters be warned in time and remember there is no famine like the want of bread.... Women who have known the pangs of hunger and whose children have cried for bread when there was none to give them, must realize what an important matter this is... We know when a loaf of bread was far more valuable than a handful of gold dust. —Editorial A CURIOUS APPEARANCE: One of the curious happenings of late is the appearance of a large eagle on the towers of the temple and on the head of the statue of Moroni, also on the trumpet. The writer accidentally saw it and felt impressed that it was a good omen. —E. B. W. WAYNE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY: Wayne Stake was organized May 28, 1893. The presidency of Relief Society are: Jane S. Coleman, Mary Ellen Hanks, and Sarah S. Forsythe. On July 12th we wrote to each president to have read in their meetings, 'Utah Women in Chicago" in the June 15th number of the Woman's Exponent. Also have their teachers canvass their districts for subscribers for the Woman's Exponent. August 7th, held meeting at Cainesville, was happily surprised to have Stake President Robinson and Counselor G. Bastian attend our meeting. —Jane S. Coleman WOMEN OF THE WEST The seeds of liberty for years Round western altars have been sown; Nourished with hopes or fed with tears, Surprisingly has freedom grown. Columbia's glory, strength and boast The Constitution broad and grand, Is honored by a countless host Throughout this spacious western land. —Emily H. Woodmansee HISTORY OF MUSIC: In the growth of civilization among nations, as well as in the settlement and opening up of new countries and territories, music is the first outgrowth of the arts, taking precedence in the unfolding of social development of every genius but that of poetry. The peculiar form of expression in music is also an index of national character. The pioneer settlers who traversed the plains and crossed the Rocky Mountains to make homes in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, were certain in the early stage of their peculiar civilization to manifest the genius of music. Being so eminently religious in their tone of character, music would naturally form a very important part of their worship, and the hosts of Israel beguiled many an hour of their weary march across the Continent by singing the songs of Zion. —Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson Page 594 IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to Emily Aubrey Hooper, Salt Lake City, one hundred years old; Mathilda Erikson Ankarstrand, Bountiful, Utah, ninety-eight; Geziena Stedevel Grundmann, ninety-seven, Mary Barrett Hendry, ninety-six, Anna Maria Haney Davisson, ninety-three, all of Salt Lake City; and Rozella Curtis Andreason, ninety, Aurora, Utah. VIRGINIA TANNER'S — Children's Dance Theater of the McCune School of Music, branch of Brigham Young University, received an ovation in the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival at Lee, Massachusetts, July 19, and the American Dance Festival, New London, Connecticut, July 27. This was the first time the sponsors of either event had invited children to take part in these nationally famed performances. AUDE ADAMS, one of America's pre-eminent actresses, died July 17th at the age of eighty years. She was born and lived in Salt Lake City until her mid-teens; she played many times in the old Salt Lake Theater, her first appearance there occurring at the age of eight months. There was unusual individuality in Miss Adams' acting. The haunting quality of her pathos