Dorothea Lynde Dix, Patron Saint of the Insane

By Arthur Lawton Beeley

DOROTHEA LYNDE DIX did for the American lunatic asylum in the nineteenth century what John Howard achieved for the English county gaol a century earlier. Just as Howard succeeded by agitation in making English local prisons sanitary, so Dorothea Dix was able, by the same technique, to secure more and better hospital facilities for the insane in the United States.

Both reformers discovered local abuses quite by chance; Howard in the gaols, Miss Dix in the prisons and almshouses. Both of them continued their observations on a national scale and later overseas. Both had a passion for facts and an amazing facility in using them in support of their pleas. Each was a past master in the art of influencing legislators and public officials. Both became the self-appointed advocates of the unfortunate groups whose causes they so ably championed.

This remarkable woman was directly responsible for the initial establishment or the enlargement of thirty-four hospitals for the insane in the United States and Europe between the years 1840 and 1860. This phenomenal extension of hospital facilities began at Worcester, Massachusetts, and extended to Rhode Island, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Canada, Indiana, Illinois, Kentucky, Tennessee, Missouri, Louisiana, Alabama, the Carolinas, Maryland, Nova Scotia, Scotland, the Island of Jersey and finally to Italy. Moreover, her influence in raising the standards of care and treatment in mental hospitals everywhere was equally marked. And this, too, at a time when most laymen still believed that insane persons were possessed of devils and that insanity was the result of sexual sin.

II

THE fascinating account of how this intrepid, New England schoolmistress began her work dates back to 1841 when, at thirty-nine years of age, she volunteered to teach a Sunday-school class in the East Cambridge house of correction. After the school was over Miss Dix went through the jail and found, to her amazement, several insane persons herded together among the prisoners, in unheated rooms, "noisome with filth". Believing that conditions throughout Massachusetts were the same as those in East Cambridge, she set out, note-book in hand, to confirm her suspicions and to record her findings. After visiting jails and almshouses in the state, she organized her report—a mass of appalling data describing the misery of the insane—into a memorial and addressed it to the legislature in 1843.

This classic document, dated from the home of Dr. William Ellery Channing, a friend and supporter of Miss Dix, describes the conditions at Fitchburg, Springfield, Ipswich, Concord and a score of other places in the state where the insane were confined in "cages, closets, cellars, stalls, pens! Chained, naked, beaten with rods and lashed into obedience." * * *

Of the almshouse in Wayland, for instance, Miss Dix said:

* * * caged in a wood-shed, and also fully exposed upon the public road, was seen a man * * * debased by exposure and irritation. Want of accommodations for the imperative calls of nature had converted the cage into a place of utter offence. "My husband cleans him out once a week or so", said the mistress ***

At Westford she reported—

* * * a young woman, whose person was partially covered with portions of a blanket, sat upon the floor. * * * about the waist was a chain, the extremity of which was fastened to the wall of the house.

In the almshouse at Worcester she found—

* * * a young woman, a lunatic pauper of decent life and respectable family, have seen her as she usually appeared, listless and silent, almost or quite sunk into a state of dementia. * * * A few weeks since, while revisiting that almshouse, judge my horror and amazement to see her negligently bearing in her arms a young infant, of which I was told she was the unconscious parent.

The practical nature of Miss Dix's proposals, together with the force of her language, are well illustrated in the following excerpt from her Memorial:

The conviction is continually deepened that hospitals are the only places where insane persons can be at once humanely and properly controlled. Poorhouses converted into madhouses cease to effect the purposes for which they were established, and instead of being asylums for the aged, the homeless, and the friendless, and places of refuge for orphaned or neglected childhood, are transformed into perpetual bedlams.

Miss Dix's petition was referred to a committee of the legislature, of which Samuel Gridley Howe was fortunately the chairman. Dr. Howe's committee strongly endorsed the Dix indictment and recommended a bill, which later carried by a large majority, authorizing two hundred additional beds at the Worcester State Hospital.

III

MISS DIX followed this same procedure, with equal success, in several other states. Her belief was that only by creating more and better hospitals, staffed with well-trained physicians of high character, could the imperative needs of the insane be met.

The success of these legislative endeavors was due not only to her zeal but also to her ability to choose wise and influential spokesmen for her reform measures. Many of the outstanding men of her day endorsed her proposals. In England, for example, where she was little known, she had the support of William Rathbone, of Lord Shaftesbury and of Dr. Daniel Hack Tuke. She could appeal to men of eminence with the same ease and success that she approached men of wealth.

Her conception of the importance of her cause, and the strategy which she employed to promote it, are strikingly revealed in her proposal to Congress to set aside 12,225,000 acres of public domain, ten million for the benefit of the insane, the remainder for the blind, deaf and dumb.

According to her biographer, Tiffany, it was the sight of greedy adventurers besieging Congress for grants of land which first gave her the idea of seeking federal aid. Congress had, in fact, already made liberal grants of public lands for educational purposes, and later, in aid of two "seminaries" for the