[WomansExponent | Vol36 | 1907 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: SHORT TALK TO THE NURSES GRADU- | Author: DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS]

SHORT TALK TO THE NURSES GRADU-
			ATING CLASS.
	BY DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS.

President Bathsheba W. Smith and Board,
Supt. Empey and Graduating Nurses:
	I am happy this day to congratulate
you upon your success in the course of
study you have so faithfully followed, and
and the excellent examination you have
passed. You have now earned the certi-
ficate of graduation given by the General
Board of the Relief Society of the Church
and authorized to practice under the aus-
pices of this society in the profession of
nursing.
	Of the nobility, importance and res-
ponsibility of this profession, I have oft-
en spoken in our class exercises, and there
would seem to be small need of refering
to these matters again. Yet experience
in teaching and your own recollection
warrant me in saying that frequent repe-
tition is essential in order to impress the
mind with things that are to be remem-
bered. “Attention,” it is said, “is the
mother of memory;” if that be granted, I
want to add, that the child memory has
need often to be jogged by repetition in
order to retain that which the mother
has committed to it. It goes without
saying that the profession of nursing
stands out at once among the most neces-
sary and honorable of callings. This is
eyerywhere acknowledged. But it seems
to me that with the Latter-day Saints it
ought to be regarded as more emphatical-
ly true than with others, and especially
so in the case of Relief Society nurses,
because, in their labor there is to be a
dash of the religious element that does
not attach to such services in other com-
munities and with ordinary nurses.
	“I was sick and ye visited me,” is
classed by the Master as among those
charity deeds that shall be remembered
in the day of judgment of men—such as
“I was an hungered and ye gave me meat;
thirsty and ye gave me drink; a stranger
and ye took me in; naked and ye clothed
me; in prison and ye came unto me.’”
And it is predicted in that scripture that
when the righteous shall say, “Lord,
when saw we thee a stranger, or naked,
or in prison or sick and came unto thee,’’
the Lord shall answer, “In as much as
ye have done it unto the least of these
my brethren, ye have done it unto me.”
	It was in this spirit, I am sure, that it
was intended originally, and is now in-
tended that Relief Society nurses should
perform their work.
	In consequence of having received your
instruction at a mere nominal tuition,
you have entered into a signed contract
to do a certain amount of charity work
which is definitely stated. 
	But all the circumstances connected
with the arrangements by which you ac-
quire your profession, the organization
under which it has been possible for you
to receive it, the practically free service
of those who have instructed you, and

[Column 2]
those who will direct your services, al
require that on your part you carry
that same spirit of free service into your
charity work. Freely you have received,
now as freely and unselfishly give such
service as your contract calls for. If your
work is characterized by the spirit which
prompted the inauguration of this move-
ment, it will be possible for you to parti-
cipate in that welcome, “Come ye blessed
of my father . . for . . “I was sick
and ye visited me, . .  in as much as
ye did it unto the least of these, my breth-
ren, ye did it unto me.”
	I would like to sound a note of warn-
ing against professional pride that might
possibly stand in the way of the efficien-
cy and acceptability of your services.
Very naturally a finished workman feels
the necessity of his tools, and a nurse’s
well-instructed senses the need of the
furniture and appliances necessary to
provide for the comfort of her patient;
but it will often happen that those things
so necessary can not be supplied. What
shall be done under these circumstances?
Shall the nurse complain, be irritable,
emphasize the misfortunes of the poor,
increase their embarrassment? No, she
will do none of these things if she follows
the instructions that have been imparted.
The very absence of the usual appliances
and conveniences afford the nurse the
opportunity to exercise her patience, her
ingenuity in improvising means out of
such materials and conditions as are at
hand, meanwhile retaining that cheerful-
ness so essential in her work, and demon-
strating that skill that comes from the
ntelligent application of instruction that
has been received.
	But while urging upon you to follow
this course, still I must say once more,
—and for the last time to a class—that
you keep in mind always the dignity of
your profession and neyer cheapen it or
yourselves.
	A wrong view is sometimes enter-
tained in regard to the services of nurses,
especially Relief Society nurses. Some
are urging that they not only attend up-
on the sick, but also do the general
housework as well. I wish to say that
notion goes beyond what has been con-
templated in the Relief Society nurse-
movement.
	I would not like to be too technical in
relation to just what the services of the
nurse should be in the household, and
have no objection to our nurses reliev-
ing whatever situation may confront
them. No general rule can be suggested.
Each nurse must judge for herself what
she can and ought to do in each particu-
lar case. But I must say that the course
of study given these classes has not been
a course in general housekeeping, scrub-
bing and cleaning, but we have tried to
mpress the nurses with the idea that
their duty is to give every attention to
the sick ones that is required to add to
their comfort and bring them back to
health, or if this can not be, then the
utmost relief of suffering until death


[Column 1]
shall bring its relief. Any thing else a
nurse does must be secondary and inci-
dental. Our Relief Society organiza-
tions are not confined in their ministra-
tion among the poor to providing a nurse
for the sick, if other household help is
needed during the time of affliction, oth-
ers besides a nurse may be called upon
to render such assistance. But to you,
you nurses, your duty is to your patient
not to the rest of the household. Sub-
ordinate every other consideration.
	Judging from the experience of our
nurses in the past, you will be tempted
by monetary considerations to abandon
or slight your obligations as a Relief So-
ciety nurse. Let me admonish you not
to yield to such temptation. And re-
member this movement was instituted
especially to supply nurses for charity
work, and for those people who can not
afford to pay $15 or $25 a week, but who
can pay, and want to pay $3, $5 or $6 a
week. You are in honor bound to nurse
for these prices whenever it is necessary
during the time stated in your contract.
This should be regarded as missionary
service and the work should be done
skillfully, cheerfully, willingly, lovingly,
and as service in the Church of Christ,
in that spirit that should and does char-
acterize all real service rendered to hu-
manity in the name of the Master.
	Nor should this service be rendered in
any sectarian spirit—to members, of your
own church only, for, as God causes his
sun to shine on both the evil and the
good, and the rain to fall upon, the just
and the unjust alike; so should your
charity services be given. It must be
enough for you to know that there is
poverty and sickness combined and that
you are called upon in your professional
capacity to help relieve it. Time would
fail me to say all that I would desire to
say to you so anxious am I that you
should succeed and perpetuate in your
work the spirit of the Relief Society
movement that has been so dear to me
both in its inception and development
up to this time. It is an undertaking, if
I may be so bold as to say it, that is most
in keeping both with the name and the
mission of that first and what well might
be the greatest auxiliary organization of
the Church, the Relief Society.
	One other thought I feel impressed to
voice, though not immediately con-
nected with your graduation, and duties
as nurses. Some years ago, President
Brigham Young recognizing the fact that
in some departments of the physician’s
calling, namely, obstetrics and children’s
diseases, it was possible for women to
perform the service as well as, if not
even better than men physicians, and
urged a number of young women to
qualify for that profession in some of
the medical colleges in the East. In
response to this advice and encouraged
by him, several of the young Utah wo-
men went East, studied, graduated and
for some years have practiced their pro-
fession in the state. I observe, however,
that none of our young women seem
ambitious to succeed them in their work,
nor are they; so far as I know, receiv-
ing any encouragement to do so.
	Believing, hwever, in the inspiration
that prompted President Brigham Young
to move in this matter, I venture to call
attention to the subject on this occasion.
We shall soon be without lady prac-

[Column 2]
ticing physicians, so far as the Latter-
day Saints are concerned, unless steps
are taken to call others to this profes-
sion, as it requires at the very least, a
high school education in order to enter
medical colleges, and then four years to
complete the course. 
	Very properly, I think, the Relief So-
ciety, under whose auspices we are met
here to day, could take the initiative in
this matter and search out young women
who could take up this profession. 
	I feel a perfect freedom in giving en-
couragement to women to take up the
profession of medicine and of nursing,
because in doing so, I but urge them to
engage in the noblest, most useful calling
which women can follow. And this not
only because it is good to relieve suffer-
ing and nurse people from pain and sick-
ness back to ease and health, but for the
reason of the moral power these profes-
sions enable them to use. If you except
perhaps the occupation of the priest,
there is no other calling which brings
men and women into such close relation-
ship to their fellows as the ministration
of the physician and the nurse, and that
at a time when those with whom they
come in contact are in such condition as
to be influenced for good. The physical
powers are somewhat weakened, and un-
der such conditions, the mind is more
open to moral and spiritual influences
than at other times.
	During the period of illness and con-
valescence, the physician and nurse have
their opportunity for influencing for good
the lives of those who come under their
watch-care; and I am confident from both
observation and experience that there
are few who have greater chances for be-
ing a power that makes for righteousness
in this world than the conscientious God-
fearing physician. I am happy to say
that in the great majority of cases, it is
my firm conviction that the men and wo-
men of my profession avail themselves of
their opportunities and are a real moral
force in society. Nurses with opportun-
ities well-nigh equal, can be, and I be-
lieve for the most part are also a moral
power. I feel sure that this class now
graduating are capable of this high moral
service in the families and the communi-
ty where they will practice their profes-
sion. None of the classes which I have
taught and who have graduated under
the auspices of the Relief Society have
had so good opportunities as this class
and none have made better use of their
advantages. I am well satisfied with the
intellectual and moral status of these
graduates, and I am confident that they
are capable of efficiency in the practice
of their profession, and also in their abili-
ty for being moral forces whereever their
lot may be cast. To this labor so broad
in its scope, so full of possibilities for
good, I commend you, nurses, with all
my heart.
	May 13, 1907.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
