[Vol46 | May 1959 | Sequence: 11 | Category: General Feature | Title: Woman's Sphere | Author: Ramona W. Cannon]
Woman's Sphere
Ramona W. Cannon

M®> MARY M. ROBERTS, who died in January 1959, was editor of the American Journal of Nursing from 1921 to 1949, and editor emeritus until her death. She regarded nursing as an "all-encompassing service in response to a universal human need." She was cited and decorated for distinguished service in many fields of nursing.

HE Women's State Legislative Council of Utah has received international recognition because of the Commitment Law, which it spearheaded six years ago. 'This legislation makes it easier for mentally ill people to be admitted for observation or treatment at the state hospital on a voluntary basis. It also deletes the word insane so frequently used in former legislation and makes several other enlightened improvements. 'This law, it is said, will be the basis of similar legislation in India and has been copied by Arizona and New Mexico.

RS. KATHERINE G. CAPT is survey statistician, Division of Statistical Research, United States Bureau of the Census, Washington, D. C. It is her responsibility to find, through the research and experiments of various workers, the most accurate and effective ways of making surveys to form a basis for governmental action.

RS. CATHERINE BYRNE, Lord Mayor of Dublin, IreJand, was an honored guest in New York City on St. Patrick's Day, March 17, 1959, when 120,000 Irishmen took over Fifth Avenue. <Accompanied by Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller, she reviewed the marchers.

M®*: JOSEPHINE PERFECT BAY was appointed recently to the chairmanship of the board of directors of the American Export Lines. She is the first woman to head a major steamship line. Mrs. Bay was born in Iowa and inherited extensive financial interests when her husband, Charles Ulrick Bay, former United States Ambassador to Norway, died in 1955.

RS. CLAIRE BOOTH LUCE, former Ambassador to Italy from 1953 to 1957, has been named ambassador to Brazil. Mrs. Luce won considerable acclaim for the conduct of her office in Italy.

MOGEN HOLST, musical secretary to Britain's brilliant composer, Benjamin Britten, is co-author with him of The Wonderful World of Music (Garden City Books). This volume explains music to children imaginatively and delightfully.