[Vol46 | May 1959 | Sequence: 00 | Category: Article | Title: V46_05_00_BOARD]
Poets from New York City, Grand Rapids, Michigan, Los Angeles, and from the states of Minnesota, Mississippi, Iowa, etc. — one a poet laureate — have given high praise for the quality of the poems and stories, and for the scope of living and education covered by our lessons. One commented very favorably on the lesson. On Jonathan Edwards and said she didn't expect to find such material in a church publication. JI am happy to report these reactions, for I am proud of our Magazine and thankful to be represented in it. —Mabel Law Atkinson Salt Lake City, Utah Reading The Relief Society Magazine is like finding an oasis in a desert after reading many other magazines. I think that all the prize stories and poems were especially fine this year. Mrs. Hill's ""The Telling" is unique in technique. Its apparent simplicity — which is not simple at all — combined with its spiritual essence, makes it outstandingly beautiful. I don't know what I would do without the Magazine. I have written for it ever since "Aunt Susie Young Gates" was called to be the editor. May it continue on in its great mission. —-Grace Ingles Frost Provo, Utah I am grateful for the lesson on discipline "The Restraining Hand," by Elder John Farr Larson, in the November 1958 issue of the Magazine. It helped my husband and me better to understand the problems of our child and gave us new courage towards our goal of making ¢ a real home for our little family. —Bessie L. Abbott Kearns, Utah I have taken The Relief Society Magazine almost ever since 1921. I have surely enjoyed reading it and hope I can continue taking it until my days are finished on earth. I do enjoy the stories and the lessons. —Bertha G. Brown Grants Pass, Oregon 
Winniefred S. Manwaring Editor Edith P. Backman Elna P. Haymond Annie M. Ellsworth Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson Irene B. Woodford Marianne C. Sharp Associate Eom 7 - - - - - - -:. Vesta P. Crawtford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford