[Vol46 | May 1959 | Sequence: 15 | Category: General Feature | Title: The Right Circles]
FiNCIRCLED, as we are, by the gifts and blessings so_ freely granted through the mission and teachings of Jesus Christ, and through the enlightenment and verification of the restored gospel, we are heirs of the covenant. As such we are entitled to as much progression and as much joy as our own capacities and obedience will allow us to receive. It is a natural feeling for those who have been given participation in a rewarding earth life and in a glorious promise for the eternities— it is a natural wish for them to share their riches with others and to spread the tidings that many may join in the blessings and participate in "the right circles."

A formal missionary system was established early in the history of the Church. 'Through revelation the Prophet Joseph Smith instructed a group of early missionaries: "And from this place [Kirtland, Ohio] ye shall go forth into the regions westward; and inasmuch as ye shall find them that will receive' you ye shall build up my church in every region" (D & C 42:8).

Though all of us are not called to special missions, we are all missionari€s in one way or another. The child who invites his playmate to Primary is enlarging the circle of joyful companionship. The older son who takes a school friend with him to Mutual gives this friend an opportunity to see life as it progresses in the gospel circle. The woman at home may be one to lift her voice and share her heritage. If she is alert to the needs of her neighbors, she may invite a seamstress, or one interested in handicraft, to the work meeting, and open for her the blessings and opportunities of Relief Society. Young mothers, through interest and invitation, may be gathered into the circle of homemakers who are enriched by participation in the lessons that give them instruction and inspiration. Many women who love literature may find this to be the portal of their entrance into Relief Society.

As the first Section of the Doctrine and Covenants so well expresses the wideness of the gospel message, it is forever an enlarging circle: "Hearken ye people from afar; and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together ' (D&C 1:1).
