[Vol46 | May 1959 | Art | What's in a Story? | Norma A. Wrathall]

What's in a Story? Norma A. Wrathall HY don't you write a story \\) for The Relief Society Magazine Short Story Contest?
Maybe you have already started one. Or maybe all you need is to get started. Let us begin with a definition, and then consider some of the ingredients of the short story. A short story has been defined as a prose narrative which depicts characters in processes of struggle and complications. 'The narrative usually centers around a principal character, with a special problem, against a specific background. A dominant purpose or theme should be in evidence, and the effective short story is marked by dramatic interest, involving significant human experience. In every story, six elements are present: setting (place); persons (characters); events (plot); idea (theme); emotion; and style. I have not listed them in order of their importance, for in any given story one element may predominate over the others. But in every story, all are present to some degree.
There are three main steps in building the story: (1) finding the story; (2) building the plot; and (3) developing the narrative.
Perhaps you have noted an expression on someone's face showing great joy, strong anger, or deep sorrow. 'The emotion seemed so intense that you kept thinking about it. You wondered what could have caused anyone to feel that way. You may remember a similar feeling in yourself, and recall the circumstance. You may wonder what events might have led to it, what had happened to the person to cause him to react in that way. And you have the germ of a story. Or, you may know of a series of events in which everything worked out rather smoothly, eventually turning out as planned. But you might wonder, what if something had happened to change those plans?
What if, at a certain point, things had gone wrong?
What then? And you would begin to have a story; you would think what the people (characters) might have done in the emergency, how each would have reacted to disappointment; what would have been the outcome. Or, you may have visited a place that fairly teemed with a story, such as a remote house; an abandoned farm; a seemingly peaceful village with an undercurrent of turmoil. Or, you may have a belief that you want to portray in dramatic action. I have read much discussion as to whether one should begin with theme, character, or plot. It is like trying to decide the old question of the chicken or the egg? As far as we are concerned, perhaps we should begin with the element that suggested the story in the first place, and then build in the other parts.
This means that if we start with character, we decide on a certain characteristic in the person (such as truthfulness). We then portray this quality by presenting the character in incidents to which he will react to reveal this quality. If we start with plot, we have in mind a series Page 299 300 of significant incidents, then decide what characters would be necessary to bring to pass these events. In the same manner, one might begin with theme or setting. We can't have a story at all without people. N the short story, there is room for only one leading character.
This person must be in focus most of the time in the story, if not in actual fact, then by reference. He should be rounded out as much as possible by his thoughts and feelings, his reactions to certain events, his reactions to other people, his appearance, the way he moves, walks, and talks. One or two minor characters, not so fully characterized, may be used to bring out the main character. But they must always be subordinate to him. Don't have any "scene stealers" in your dramatic situations. If you do, the story will be muddled and the reader confused. The character should be made sympathetic to the reader, so that the reader can identify himself with the story-person, and will care what happens to him. And before you can cause the reader to identify with the character, you, the writer, must identify with him yourself. You must be able to feel as he feels, think as he thinks, before you know how he will react to certain situations.
Make your character natural and human.
Even an evil character must be shown in such a way that the reader will think, "Well, I guess that's what I'd do, if I were that kind of person!"
Everything that you write about the character must bring out the characteristic that you are trying to portray. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959
Here are some steps in character development: (1) Seleet an outstanding characteristic and show (as early in the story as possible) how the character acts to portray that quality. (2) Characterize by telling or showing the thoughts and feelings of the person. (3) Develop character in dialogue, ° which includes the speech of the characters in conversation, and also what other people in the story say about the main character. In writing dialogue, train your car to listen to your characters speak.
Speech is one of the most difficult things in writing. For it one is not careful, all the characters will be talking alike, and chances are, in the same way as the author! (4) Appearance is important, especially so if appearance can be made to show, by comparison or contrast, the inner feelings of the person. For example: Aunt Sade's hair had always been held tightly at the sides by two brown combs. It wound into a smooth coil at the back, always in the same place, with the same thickness and smoothness. A lock had never been known to escape either of the combs and curl upon her high white forehead; it would not dare! (5) You can individualize your character by some little trait— such as pulling at his ear while thinking. (6) Movement is a language in itself, and sometimes shows far more than any of the other ways. Examples: Diana's bare toes skimmed over the dew-wet grass, a naughty elf fleeing from the prosaic morming ritual of getting dressed. Old Ernst placed one foot ahead of the other with such calculated economy of motion that one had to watch him a moment to know if he really moved. Remember, you cannot characterize your actor and then have done with it once and for all. You must keep on characterizing him right up to, and including, the end of the story. Now that you have the idea for your story, and the characters WHAT'S IN A STORY?
Well in mind, it is time to begin on step two, building the plot. Don't believe it if someone tells you that she is not interested in plot. As well try to bake a cake without a recipe, or sew a dress without a pattern. The plot is the framework of the story, the skeleton upon which is placed flesh and skin and coloring. It consists of a series of dramatic happenings, arranged in climactic order, and containing struggle or complication. The first part of the plot is the situation. It contains the want of the principal character, and the problem which seems to prevent him from getting it.
This part may end with the dramatic climax (the point at which the character despairs of attaining his desire). 'The second part is the solution, in which the character brings about, by his own effort or decision, the solving of the problem. To avoid a "forced result," it is well to have treated in the situation every factor used in the solution. 'The want should be introduced as early as possible in the story. It must be strongly motivated, so that the reader will be interested in knowing how it turns out. By complication is meant not merely a series of obstacles or stumbling blocks which can be rather easily overcome. For instance, we might be writing about a young girl who is going to college. We give her a strong motive for wanting to earn her degree in June. To do so, she must get credit in French. She is not linguistic, and the subject is hard for her, but by studying late at nights, and taking many notes, she thinks she can pass. But she loses her notebook just before the test. However, she finds it again in time 301 to "cram" for the exam.
These things would hinder her, but they would not be complication.
Suppose that when the girl found her notebook at the last minute, she stayed up nearly all night to study. But she was so tired and unnerved that right in the middle of the test she began to weep and ran out of the room, thus flunking the course. So, according to the rules, she would not be allowed to graduate in June. Now, based upon what you might have shown about her, what will she do?
Will she accept meekly the ruling of the committee? Or will she find some way out of the dilemma? 'This would be complication, because it would change the course of action, and it would involve emotional conflict in the leading character. SOMETIMES the character may attain his original want, only to find that it is not what he needed or wanted after all, and a substitute goal is found. 'This usually grows out of, or is a variant of, the original want; it may be in the nature of a decision.
Sometimes the struggle exists almost entirely in the mind of the character, and a decision is the outcome. But in any case, the pattern is the same: the well-defined want; the complication which seems to prevent its attainment; the solution to the problem.
Write out your plot in outline form, in whatever way you like. I usually write in short sentences, double-spaced typing, then go over it and see if the incidents lead logically into each other. After I have written my outline, I often write the end of the story, rapidly, just as it comes to me, and 302 sometimes the first two or three paragraphs of the beginning of the story. Then, even with all the interruptions which happen to my writing, I can go back and get into the mood of it again.
Each writer must decide what is the best way for her. Now we have finished for the time being with steps one and two. We are ready for the final step, the actual writing. Well, nearly ready. Who is to tell the story? If a character tells it, you will write in first person—the "T' story. If the author tells it, you will write in third person. 'Think it out in several ways. Now write your story. Write.
Keep going, to the end, if possible, without thinking of wording or construction or technique.
When you have finished, put the story away for several days, or even weeks.
Forget it.
This step is just as important as any part of the writing.
When you are ready to begin again, read it entirely through from beginning to end as if you had never seen it before. Now you begin the real work of writing, the revision. Be sure that you have your writer's tools at hand, including your Roget's 'Thesaurus, a good dictionary, and a book of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959
English grammar and composition for reference. Ask yourself these questions about the story: (1) Would the narrative move along just as well and be just as true and interesting without this incident? If so, leave it out. (2) What is the purpose of each incident? Does each one carry out, or lead toward, the general purpose of the story? (3) Is each incident, and the act of each character, properly motivated? (4) Does the story have suspense and emotional appeal? Cutting and shortening the story are also a part of revision, for you will always have to meet certain word-length requirements. As you see, there are many things to consider. But the best way to learn to write is by writing. Read published stories, and see how our principles of the short story are carried out by the authors. Read and study good reference books and articles in writers' magazines. And be sure to keep a notebook of ideas and characterizations, scribbled in quickly as they come to mind. Now put this article away. Write your story. You will work, and dream, and despair over it. But whatever its fate, if you have given it your best, you are a winner; for ahead of success is achievement. You have achieved something, and the result is uplifting and rewarding. REFERENCES Bares, E. H.: The Modern Short Story, $3.00
Extwoop Maren: Characters Make Your Story, $4.00
MirriELeEs, Eviru M.: Story Writing, $3.50. The books listed above may be purchased from The Writer, Inc. Publishers, 8
Arlington, Street, Boston 16, Massachusetts RoGET's THESAURUS, $1.90
Writer's Digest, 22
East 12th Street, Cincinnati 10, Ohio. Louisa Helen M. Livingston HE long train of handcarts pushed on through the dusty afternoon. "Keep moving.
Fight miles yet to go. We'll make the Sweetwater tonight."
This word came down the line from the leader of the Enoc Company.
Louisa pushed along. The extra sack of flour from the provision wagon made the pushing harder.
Sometimes it seemed that that extra fifty pounds were right on her shoulders. But she mustn't look tired or Brother Thames next to her would take the sack on his load. Brother 'Thames was small and wiry. He had supervised linen looms and was not fitted for heavy pulling and his load was twice as big as Louisa's. He carried for a family. His wife was ill and hardly able to get herself along, and three-year-old Melinda had to sit on the load much of the time. So the sun beat down.
This was strange dry country.
When a breeze came it was not salty, nor cool, nor damp from the sea. It was dry and crisp and took all the moisture out of your skin, and out of your mouth.
Louisa saw buffalo tracks at the side of the trail. It might have been wet when the huge animal walked there, but those tracks were hard and dry now. A scaly lizard at the side of the trail looked at her with startled, beady eyes, then slithered away in the shadscale brush.
Louisa touched her hand to her face. Her own skin felt as brown and rough as the lizard's. She pulled her big bonnet closer over her face and pinned the neck of her dress a little higher. If only her foot would stop hurting, Louisa thought. 'The sturdiest shoes she could buy, too, and all out at the sides! She had come on that cactus so suddenly the other day. She had sat at the side for awhile and taken out the spines. But it still pained. It was getting worse. The heated rays of the sun shot right down through her broken shoe like sharp knives, and her whole foot was throbbing. It felt like the great wheel of the cart was turning on her foot.
Once they came to a spring; no, not a spring, just a bog. But they dug deep holes until the water oozed in, then they gathered around in groups and drank the water. Little Melinda broke loose from her father's hand. She rushed toward the water and didn't wait until she reached the hole. She just caught up a handful of black mud and thrust it into her mouth, sucking the moisture onto her dry lips and tongue. Louisa, cupping her hands, brought water to Melinda. As it seeped through her fingers she put out her throbbing foot to catch the cool drops. But time couldn't be wasted at the spring.
Soon the Fnoc train was pushing on again. "Keep your own place in your own company."
Each person tried to follow the directions, but every now and then a cart would be stopped at the roadside. One cart Page 303 304 had a cover that fell over at the side, making a little tent. As the carts pushed past, Louisa heard the cry of a new baby. She thought of her own mother back in England. She thought of her younger brothers and sisters. She wanted to leave the line and rush into the crude tent, but she moved mechanically on, looking into the dry distance. If you walked this far in England you would come to ocean, but there were no oceans here, just desert and the far distant mountains. But she mustn't think of England. It was best her father and mother had stayed.
They could come later. How her foot throbbed, but she remembered the words of the prophet, "Let them gird up their loins and walk through and nothing shall hinder them." She lifted her head higher. 'The load seemed lighter. Her sore foot eased. HE afternoon wore on.
Another cart was stopped at the side of the trail. It was Levi Andrus.
Louisa brushed the dust from her navy alpaca and _ straightened her brown hair under her bonnet.
Levi had danced with her the first night they had camped. "Tl have to save the axle," Levi told Brother Thames, as he fitted his only leather jacket around the axle. "You need something Lad. Here, take my belt."
Louisa untied the big bow under her chin and jerked off one of the ties. "Take this, as well.'' Her bonnet fell back from her face. Levi's quick eye saw the white skin on her forehead where her bonnet had covered. It made a pale border around the deep brown of the freckles on her nose and chin. To tie it, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 "Looks as if you need your bonnet held tight." But Levi didn't give the tie back.
They left him tugging at his axle. The sun dropped behind the western horizon.
There was no singing along the long lines now. The tired bodies bent forward, pushing and pulling. 'The slow creaking of.
Wheels continued. "No stop until we reach the Sweetwater."
They kept doggedly on. But when the sun sank the heat went, too, and a cold chill came over the plains. "There are three graves to be dug when we stop." The word came to Brother Thames, but it was passed along up and down the lines and settled with the cold evening on the company.
Word came that snow was already in the mountains. 'There was no time to waste. Brother 'Thames murmured, "May the Lord in his mercy preserve us." The words were repeated like a prayer down the line sounding much like a chant as it echoed back. "May the Lord in his mercy preserve us." At last the handcart company could smell the Sweetwater River. Dry nostrils sniffed the damp breeze, and the train picked up speed.
Shoulders lifted and pushed harder, finally a shout went up from the front. The bank was soon lined with carts. The people were drinking and dipping their hands into the water.
Many fell upon the bank not wanting to move. It was dark and the water was cold, but the sacks were removed from the feet of those whose shoes were gone and they dipped their feet in the cold water.
Louisa removed what was left of LOUISA her broken shoe. Her foot was swollen. It looked as if a fire were inside it. She washed it and sat holding it. The carts that had lagged were pushing up into their own places. Levi's cart with the leather-wrapped axle came creaking into view. He stopped and dropped down by Louisa. He noticed the swollen foot. "It needs to be opened." Brother 'Thames bent over, too, and examined the swelling as if it were a flaw in a length of lovely linen. "Best get it cared for tonight, so you can be on it tomorrow." OUISA looked helpless.
Levi comforted, "It's not so bad. If the pressure is relieved it will be better." He slipped out his sharp knife and handed it to her. She shook her head. "Would you?" she asked. He hesitated.
Then slid over to the water. He scoured the knife in the white sand. "Now," he said, "put your foot here. Then I can't see your face, and you can't see your foot." It was done in a second.
Blood stained the white sand. "Do you have something with which to wrap it?"
Louisa shook her head.
Levi took from his pocket a neat, folded, bonnet tie, and with quick, skilled movements, he wrapped the foot and tied the bandage.
Many of the carts were already being unloaded. The tired train of emigrants was just getting ready for the night when a loud call came from behind. "We _ will push through the river tonight."
Unrest filled the train.
Sighs and 305 complaints filled the air. '""We've come fifteen miles today." "It's cold; we can't take icy water tonight." "Our cart is already unloaded." "It's dark; we'll slip on the rocks." "Our feet are already bleeding." No one moved toward the water. "How is your foot?"
Levi asked. He took her broken shoe and went to his cart. "We'll push through the water tonight," the call re-echoed from the captain. No one moved. 'There was just a low cough of complaining.
Then an axle squeaked. A cart moved into the river.
Then a clear, vibrant voice rose over the water. "Come, come, ye saints, no toil nor labor fear."
Other carts were moved.
More voices were singing. The whole company came in on the chorus, "AI] is well, all is well." The air vibrated. The carts were moving on through the water. 'The emptied ones were being filled. 'The last verse echoed joyously out through the valley. The large camp fire was burning on the other side as the last carts came up the bank from the water.
Steam rose from wet clothing.
Camps were set for the night.
Levi brought her shoe back to Louisa. "Did your foot make it through the water?" He called her Louesa. She corrected him. "Louisa. My mother is named Louisa. My grandmother is. Louisa. It has always been Louisa. It has to be Louisa."
Levi looked deep by the light of the dying fire. Right," he said, "Blue-eyes." into her face, "All Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, May 1, and May 15, 1899 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NATIONS" OBEDIENCE WITHOUT SEVERITY: Law is the governing force of the universe....
Nevertheless there are persons who hesitate to compel obedience lest they might injure the child's will power. But we think this is not so. Too frequently where there is strong will power displayed it is a manifestation of selfishness.
Children do sometimes have strong instinctive desires in the right direction; therefore their motives should be most cautiously considered.... A stubborn, unconquered child is sure to develop into a man so self-centered and determined to have his own way that he will forego pleasures and even success rather than retract, and will be as he was when a child, his own greatest enemy.. —Amy Brown Lyman EDUCATION AND MOTHERHOOD: The knowledge stored in days of youth can be brought forth from time to time, to enrich the minds of the children. 'They must look up to the mother; feel that she possesses the very acme of wisdom; then they are willing and respectful subjects. Mothers, live with your children, answer all their manifold questions... You must retain and add to the education of early years. The education obtained in school days, is only the foundation on which to erect the life structure. —Lydia D. Alder Am el "LC a Religious freedom on thy soil, Was born 'mid struggling bands, And Liberty to light the world, In New York harbor stands.
Shine on thou incandescent light, Nor let thy rays grow dim, Bring joy to earth's inhabitants, With thy effulgent gleam. —Lucy A. Clark A FLOURISHING BRANCH: San Diego, California. In this far off, beautiful southern city of between twenty and twenty-six thousand, there is a little band of Saints organized, numbering probably thirty-five souls, all told.... The Relief Society is under the able management of Sister Amelia Jewell, at whose home the sisters convene... For the purpose of testifying of God's goodness and blessings, and to lend themselves physically for the relief and succor of those in need. —Rhoda Celestia Nash NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY: This society is so perfectly organized that it is comparatively easy to carry out any plan formulated by the General Board....
Thus there are divisions and subdivisions of the society, which consists at present of thirty thousand members and more than six hundred branches scattered through this and other countries and on the islands of the sea. —r. B. W. Page 306 M®> MARY M. ROBERTS, who died in January 1959, was editor of the American Journal of Nursing from 1921 to 1949, and editor emeritus until her death. She regarded nursing as an "all-encompassing service in response to a universal human need." She was cited and decorated for distinguished service in many fields of nursing. HE Women's State Legislative Council of Utah has received international recognition because of the Commitment Law, which it spearheaded six years ago. 'This legislation makes it easier for mentally ill people to be admitted for observation or treatment at the state hospital on a voluntary basis. It also deletes the word insane so frequently used in former legislation and makes several other enlightened improvements. 'This law, it is said, will be the basis of similar legislation in India and has been copied by Arizona and New Mexico. RS. KATHERINE G. CAPT is survey statistician, Division of Statistical Research, United States Bureau of the Census, Washington, D. C. It is her responsibility to find, through the research and experiments of various workers, the most accurate and effective ways of making surveys to form a basis for governmental action. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon RS. CATHERINE BYRNE, Lord Mayor of Dublin, IreJand, was an honored guest in New York City on St. Patrick's Day, March 17, 1959, when 120,000
Irishmen took over Fifth Avenue. <Accompanied by Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller, she reviewed the marchers. M®*: JOSEPHINE PERFECT BAY was appointed recently to the chairmanship of the board of directors of the American Export Lines. She is the first woman to head a major steamship line. Mrs. Bay was born in Iowa and inherited extensive financial interests when her husband, Charles Ulrick Bay, former United States Ambassador to Norway, died in 1955. RS. CLAIRE BOOTH LUCE, former Ambassador to Italy from 1953 to 1957, has been named ambassador to Brazil. Mrs. Luce won considerable acclaim for the conduct of her office in Italy. MOGEN HOLST, musical secretary to Britain's brilliant composer, Benjamin Britten, is co-author with him of The Wonderful World of Music (Garden City Books). This volume explains music to children imaginatively and delightfully. Page 307 ee DIT ORIAL m2 

VOL. 46 MAY 1959 NO. 5 (Books — Recorders for the Ages...
Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom, seek learning, even by study and also by faith (D & C 88:11:18). AN it be that the wide and wonderful world of books is being lost to many of our generation?
Each year more and more good books become available—the thoughts and researches, the conclusions of great minds of our time, and innumerable new editions of the classics of the past. History, science, literature, books on art, volumes of sacred scriptures are easily secured.
Books are being circulated through libraries in towns and cities, and, in some areas, bookmobiles distribute books even in isolated regions.
Books on myriad subjects, suitable for all age groups, are available at small cost. Books, the recorders for the ages, companions of all generations, encompassing the tablets of the past and foreshadowing the future, are within reach for our information, our entertainment, our inspiration, and our spiritual advancement. Yet there are many homes which lack this illumined acquaintanceship, and which seem to be unaware of these treasures of knowledge.
Perhaps we value lightly the opportunities which are abundant. Our fathers and our mothers, our grandparents, many of them rejoiced in the few books they owned and the ones they were able to borrow.
Books of poems, histories, Bibles, were brought in covered wagons and in handcarts to the valleys of the Page 308 mountains, and the books were read by evening firelight, by flickering candles; they were read on Sabbath afternoons, on long journeys; and they were read by the farmer at noontime rest beside his field; mothers read to their children in shade of poplar trees and on the cabin porch.
Isolation became union with a world of faraway people and places.
Pioneer families on lonely ranches companioned themselves with books.
Rejoicing in her measure of such companionship, was a teenage girl, living all summer at her father's sheep camp on the mountain range.
Only one book was available, a small, paper-bound book, filled with words of lasting strength and beauty "the light shineth in darkness... The voice of one crying in the wilderness....
There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water a well of water springing up into everlasting life." 'There were twenty-one chapters in the little book, and each chapter was divided and rationed, read over and over again, so that there would be a little reading for each of the long summer days that stretched slowly to evening on the high blue ridges. 'The small, paper-bound book was the Gospel of John, and when the girl became a woman she still loved books and rejoiced when other books and other scriptures opened for her the illimit- EDITORIAL able vistas of this world and the worlds to come. If we lose for ourselves the world of books, we lose much of our heritage; we lose the selectivity that may be exercised in choosing those volumes that will embellish our thoughts and our ways with treasures proved through the long years, and new delights that come to us in poem and story, in travelogues, in new light on ancient places, accounts of the widening panoramas of change. The myriad rooms of wonderment that books open are available to us 309 and to our children. The books we read to our little ones in this their day of tender impressions will be their memories tomorrow, and they will hold in high esteem and with a lasting love, that mother or father, that grandmother or grandfather, that kind companion who sat beside the child and turned the pages of a book, opening for him the glorious world of experience and inspiration —the world that is so wide and so wonderful, and yet so small that books can capture much of it, for books are the recorders of the ages. —V. P. C. — Dream. Come Srue Ida Elaine James My head is bent over blossom-white seams No whiter, no sweeter than are my dreams.
Into the shining needle there goes A vision of cuddly dimpled toes And pink cheeks smooth as the summer's rose.
Into the web of my threads are run Bird-like laughter and glint of sun— The shimmering pathway of dreams begun.
Thread and needle, fly swift and free, Make the dream that I hold come true to me. My lother Elsie McKinnon Strachan A part of prairie Jand, I see her still Wherever meadow grasses scent the air; Wherever plain folk work a gentle hill, A picture lives for me, undimmed and clear.
Bright picture of my mother as she came Across the hayfield, bringing me warm bread, Fresh-baked and sweet, calling out my name— Wind billowing her dress of faded red. And when our lunch was over, she would go, Skirts full and blowing, sunlight in her hair, Back through the cut hay, milk jug swinging low, Her color ebbing on the bright blue air. I'll see her always where wild sweet grasses bend, My prairie mother walking in the wind. She Right Circles And awake and arise... And strengthen thy stakes and enlarge thy borders forever, that thou mayest no more be confounded, that the covenants of the Eternal Father which he hath made unto thee.. FiNCIRCLED, as we are, by the gifts and blessings so_ freely granted through the mission and teachings of Jesus Christ, and through the enlightenment and verification of the restored gospel, we are heirs of the covenant. As such we are entitled to as much progression and as much joy as our own capacities and obedience will allow us to receive. It is a natural feeling for those who have been given participation in a rewarding earth life and in a glorious promise for the eternities— it is a natural wish for them to share their riches with others and to spread the tidings that many may join in the blessings and participate in "
