[Vol53 | July 1966 | Page 544 | Home | Homemaking Put Sparkle in Your Meals Hazel | S. Cannon]
HOMEMAKING — Development Through Homemaking Education Hazel S. Cannon PUT SPARKLE IN YOUR MEALS Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 Objective: 'To show how the homemaker can plan,. Prepare,. And serve INTRODUCTION John Ruskin, author writes: the English Cooking means the knowledge of all herbs and fruits... And spices.. It means carefulness, and inventive- 544 nutritious and appetizing family meals. Ness, and watchfulness, and willingness, and readiness of appliance; it means the economy of your great grandmothers,.. And the science of modern chemists; it means... Tasting and no wasting; it means English thoroughness, and French art, and Arabian hospitality.... Well-prepared meals served by loving hands can be more than nourishment. Mealtime should be family time—a time of good food and companionship, a time of rejoicing and thankfulness. What might we do to make our meals more enjoyable? NUTRITION COUNTS Food is fuel for work, action, joy; it is fuel for endurance, for nerve, for strength, for fun. It helps the child to grow, the man to stay on the job, the woman to be at her best. It often determines attitude toward life; it can give one vitality and sparkle, or it can be a robber of stamina and enthusiasm. How can we select food wisely? Nutritionists in the United States Department of Agriculture, working with an eminent food and nutrition board, have devised a simple Daily Food Guide for normal healthy persons. (This may be modified to suit the eating habits and foods of different countries.) The guide provides a framework within which meal planning can be varied and interesting as the homemaker desires. Daily Food Guide I. Milk Group—children, 3 to 4 glasses; teenagers, 4 or more glasses; adults, 2 or more glasses. Cheese, ice cream, puddings, and other milk-made foods can supply part of the milk. II. Meat group—two or more servings. Group includes meats, fish, poultry, eggs, or cheese—with dry beans, peas, and nuts as alternates. III. Vegetables and Fruits—4 or more servings. Include a citrus fruit or tomato, a dark green or yellow vegetable, and other vegetables and also fruits, including potatoes. LESSON DEPARTMENT IV. Breads and Cereals—4 or more servings. Includes enriched, whole grain or restored breads and cereals; other baked foods made with enriched or whole grain flour; enriched macaroni, spaghetti, and noodles. In some of the islands of the Pacific, poi and breadfruit are eaten. In Mexico, tortillas and tacos constitute important items of the diet. TO DISCUSS 1. Where the class consists of some members who have lived in'a country other than your own, have them share very briefly with the class the diet patterns of that country. In what ways do they not conform, if any, to the Daily Food Guide? In what ways do they conform? 2. How can vegetables be prepared in order to make them more appealing to the family? Be sure to elicit from class that the cooking of vegetables in a small amount of boiling water (with lid_on kettle) only until vegetables are tender, insures minimum vitamin and mineral loss, and helps to retain color and flavor. Use vegetable liquid for soups, sauces, and gravies. FOOD WITH A FLAIR Do your meals have appetite appeal? Someone said long ago that we "eat, first of all, with our eyes."" Food not only provides nourishment for the body, but it appeals to our senses of sight, smell, taste, and touch. As you plan your meals always consider the color, shape, texture, and temperature of each food, as well as the flavor. Also consider these guides in the relationship of one food to another; be sure the foods you use in the same menu are compatible. "Our fruit plate is a symphony and mother and I arranged it so quickly," glowed teenage Beth as she set the plate before the family. Assembled around the table. "All I know is that it looks good 


 enough to eat on my _ birthday," chimed in twelve-year-old Richard. Other members of the family agreed, as they helped themselves to the tempting fruit—common everyday fruit—but arranged with elegant simplicity. The large plate wore a ruffle of red-tinged garden lettuce around its perimeter, and picking up the red tones was a circle of watermelon wedges. Next came canned Bartlett pears, the outside of each pear blushing with a bit of rosy food coloring. Balls of lush green honeydew melon surrounded an old pink glass compote in the center. The compote contained a tangy, sweet French dressing, punctuated with cherry bits. Food, carefully prepared and served artistically on clean, crisp table linen, can be a symphony— in fact harmony in a meal is as impressive as that in music or in a painting. Your family will react more favorably when food is exciting and colorful. In most cases it is just as easy to plan and prepare an attractive meal as it is a drab, cheerless one. TO DISCUSS 1. Have the class visualize food combinations on a plate for everyday meals. Ask them to share some of their go-together foods which make for greater color appeal. Would a simple garnish such as a small bunch of grapes, carrot sticks, crab apple, or beets do the trick? (Food pictures from magazines might be shown, but it should be remembered that the preparation be kept fairly simple and easy.) 2. How can difference in food textures add to a meal? Give some examples such as crisp croutons with soup or a crunchy cookie with pudding. 3. Try to serve hot foods hot and cold foods cold. Why is it desirable to serve one -hot dish to your family, even on a hot day? AVOID FLAVOR FATIGUE Contrast. Of. Flavors adds much interest to a meal—foods that 546 are sweet and sour, bland and — spicy complement each other because of their diversity. An orange glaze on sweet potatoes, mint with lamb, and apple slices or apple sauce with pork are some examples. Learning the up-todate methods of food preparation and food combinations will pay off in flavor zest. Relief Society women have always shared their recipes and the blessings they have in their kitchens with others. SUMMARY Assume your food responsibility with enthusiasm. Plan wisely, shop to save, store foods properly, learn to cook skillfully (it is always fun to do something over which you are the master), serve food as attractively as possible, and even though at the end of the day you may be weary, put sparkle in your meal with a smile. TO DO AND THINK ABOUT Case Study—Mrs. Pett planned the following nutritious menu for her family: roast beef, potatoes cooked in their packets, gravy, buttered cauliflower, waldorf salad (peeled apples ana celery with a creamy dressing), homemade whole-wheat bread and butter for those who wished it, baked apple brown Betty, and milk. How would you improve the menu? Make a list of each family member's favorite foods. Start a file of attractive and easy to prepare and serve family meals with the food budget in mind. NOTE: It may be wise for Homemaking - Discussion leaders in countries other than the United States to use food and menus suitable to their particular country. The example contained in "To Do and Think About" is a menu _ lack- _ing in color.