[Vol53 | July 1966 | Page 488 | Special Feature | Zelma R. West Appointed to the General Board | Alberta H. Christensen]
Christensen Member, General Board of Relief Society Zelma Ririe West, appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, April 13, 1966, was born in Ogden, Utah, the tenth child of Alexander and Elizabeth McBride Ririe. After her graduation from Weber College and her marriage to Wilburn C. West, she accompanied her husband _ to Washington, D. C.,. Where their four children were born: Wilburn Jr, a university graduate and married; Carolyn West Wilkinson, college graduate and mother of the West's five grandchildren; and Stephen and David undergraduate college students. The two older sons have served L. D. S. Missions. Sister West's early interests were in the field of dramatics and radio work. She was affiliated with KLO in Ogden, was a member of a community theater group and conducted a weekly story hour for young children. In later years she became active in P. T. A. Work, both in Arlington, Virginia, and in Utah. She has given many years of devoted service to the Church, her first administrative assignment, at nineteen, being that of a ward counselor in the YWMIA. She has also served in a Primary organization presidency. Her interest in Relief Society is a natural one, since her mother was a Relief Society president. She, 488 herself, has served in the presidencies of branch, ward, an stake Relief Societies, and ha for many years been a visitin teacher. In 1962, her husband wa called to preside over the Eastern States Mission and the Wests resided in New York City, remaining, by request, beyond th termination of their mission assignment, to assist Church _ participation World's Fair, until its close in October 1965. Zelma West brings. To th General Board the strength of deep and sustaining faith. He kind and friendly personality wil endear her to the women of Relie Society throughout the Chure Her willingness to serve and h mature thinking will make her valuable member of the Board.