[Vol53 | July 1966 | Page 522 | Home | Songs My Mother Sang Genevieve | Van Wagenen]
As children, our favorite songs were the story-telling variety that mother learned in young womanhood. Songs like, "After The Ball,' "The Letter Edged in Black," "Ill Take You Home Again, Kathleen," etc. Mother briefed us in on the background of the song, then she would sing it for us. We listened intently. We were touched by the drama of life. She gave songs more than a melody—she gave them a soul. The tears rolled down our cheeks as we saw the tragedy and felt the remorse caused by the misunderstanding of the two young lovers, in "After the Ball.'"' We shed tears of sympathy, as we heard the pleading words of a brokenhearted and repentant father, in "The Letter Edged in Black," as he said: "(Come home, my boy, your poor old Father wants you. Come home, my boy, your Mother dear is dead. Oh, your Mother's words, the last she ever uttered, were, "Tell my boy I want him to come back!' Oh, my eyes are blurred, my poor old heart is breaking, while I'm writing you this Letter Edged in Black." We drank deeply of the son's grief, too, on this loneliest of days, as he read: "Forgive the angry words 'twere spoken, you know I never meant them, don't you, Jack? Oh, the angels bear me witness I am asking your forgiveness in this Letter Edged in Black." Our eyes were flooded with tears. We tried to check the flow, first with blinks and sniffs and chubby fists that see-sawed back and forth. Then we resorted to more absorbent sleeves or skirts. We wouldn't think of interrupting mother's singing to go and get a handkerchief—we didn't want to miss a word of it. (I smile now, as I look back on this tender scene.) When the song ended, we begged: "Sing it again! Sing it again!" "No," said mother, "you'll only cry. I don't want to make you cry." "Please, Mother," we coaxed. "Sing it again!" So mother would sing it again. The tears streamed just as freely, but it was wonderful! There was something strengthening, refreshing, rejuvenating about it all, like refreshing rain. As the songs flowed on, we children identified ourselves with each character. We felt understood. We sympathized. We discovered values. We learned charity. We grew.