[Vol53 | July 1966 | Page 531 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities]

Relief Society Activities All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Tongan Mission Relief Society Board Instructs District and Branch Officers January, February, and March 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Finehika B. Pulotu, Secretary-Treasurer; Salavia Muti, Second Counselor; Lela Dalton, Supervisor, Tongan Mission Relief Society; Tu'avava'u Mapa, President; Sulia Pule, First Counselor. Back row, standing, left to right, district officers; Siu Angelau; Katalina Laomake'i; Lily Wolfgramm; Liahona Fifita; Seini Lola Afu; 'Alaimaluloa Taimani. Sister Dalton reports: "During the first quarter of 1966, district conferences were held on the islands of Tongatapu, 'Eua, Ha'apai, Vava'u, Niue, and Fiji. In line with the theme of 'Improved Leadership,' a demonstration on lesson preparation was given to all officers and class leaders. On the same day, district and mission boards met together to discuss accomplishments during 1965 and plans for the year 1966. Relief Society begins in March here in the Southern Hemisphere. "As a further stimulus for improvement in record keeping, among the fifty-six branches and eleven districts with organized societies, the branch and district presidents and secretary-treasurers on the island of Tongatapu were called together for instruction on February 7th. It was felt that a deéper understanding existed of the Relief Society ward record book as a result. "The Tongan sisters in the picture are dressed in their traditional black mourning clothes (with a ta'ovala around the waist) in respect for the passing of their late Queen Salote Tupou. The strict, enforced mourning will be in effect for a period of six months." 


 North Sanpete Stake (Utah), Fairview Ward Relief Society Annual Day Observance March 17, 1966 Left to right: Lyndon Graham, designer of plaque: Ruth Eriksen and Nora Christensen, historians. Louise B. Johansen, President, North Sanpete Relief Society, reports: "The Fairview North Ward Relief Society celebrated the founding of the organization the evening of March 17, 1966, by presenting the pageant 'Then Came the Women,' depicting the history of the general organization. Fairview South Ward also participated, and all husbands and Priesthood authorities were invited to join the activities, which included tableaus, slides, songs, and refreshments. "Stake officers were present at a meeting preceding this event, where Nora Christensen and Ruth Eriksen unveiled a picture plaque portraying the nineteen Relief Society presidencies who have served the North Ward since its organization in 1868. Lyndon Graham designed and made the frame to fit over the fireplace in the Relief Society room. It is made of wood tinted with gold and pink and decorated with the Relief Society emblem and blue ribbon with gold lettering. It is covered with glass and can be adjusted to add the pictures of future presidences for many years to come. "After a leadership meeting showing the film 'A Record Shall Be Kept' and urging presidencies to write a history of their wards, President Nora Christensen and Education Counselor Ruth Eriksen were inspired to fulfill this assignment. Sister Eriksen had a history written up to 1931 that had been given to her sometime ago, but from there on, it was search and research. Past presidents were asked to write their histories, and pictures were gleaned from friends and relatives throughout Utah and several other states. The written history. With pictures, is completed now. The new President Donna Brunger states: 'We anticipate publishing the history in booklet form for our centennial year 1968.' "' Winder Stake (Utah) Winder Eighth Ward Presents Dramatization For Relief Society Anniversary March 18, 1966 Seated second row, center: Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society; and Josephine Patterson, Director of Social Service; back row, standing between these two sisters (in dark dress), Verona George, President, Winder Eighth Ward Relief Society, with her counselors, at her right: Virginia Smart, and at her left: Judy Riches. Louise W. Free, President, Winder Stake Relief Society, reports: "On March 18th, for the sisters and their husbands, the Winder Eighth Ward Relief Society presented the dramatization "There's a Great Big Beautiful Tomorrow' in which a modern day scientist took the audience back in time through an ingenious time machine to the organization of Relief Society and the lives of each of the nine General Presidents. As each scene unfolded a sister dressed in authentic clothing for her time, stood behind a plastic curtain and represented one of the presidents. When the life of President Belle S. Spafford was presented, the audience was delighted to see Sister Spafford portray her own life.: "The Singing Mothers, under the direction of Bessie Upwall, provided appropriate music. The title song 'There's a Great Big Beautiful Tomorrow,' was sung by Brother and Sister Jede Ellis between scenes, and then, at the end of the dramatization, the audience joined in the singing. Kirsten Pruhs was in charge of the buffet supper which was served following the program. Favors were blue foil booklets with a gold key attached, enclosing an original poem by Edna Maurer 'The Key to a Great Big Beautiful Tomorrow' in which the idea was expressed that the key is love, faith, charity, and service." 532 BELLS NOT mane, om 7 pane i. A a JULY 1966 South Cottonwood Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Concert Presented in Honor of the Relief Society Anniversary March 18, 1966 Standing at the right, left to right: Norma W. Witt, accompanist; Maxine S. Pattison, chorister; Heidi S. Birch, organist. Far right, on each side of the first four rows: Luella W. Finlinson, President; Momo T. Ushio, Work Counselor; Betty T. Erekson, Secretary-Treasurer; Marion A. Reed, Education Counselor. Sister Finlinson reports: "The South Cottonwood Stake held its first formal Singing Mothers concert March 18, 1966, commemorating the anniversary of Relief Society. We were thrilled with the response and performance. One hundred and twenty-one sisters from nine wards sang from memory eleven beautiful hymns. We feel this was a tremendous goal to achieve. A guest instrumental ensemble, consisting of Lucille Salisbury, Afton Woffinden, Ann Larson, and Ann Bailey played lovely interlude numbers which added much to the delight of the enthusiastic audience. The closing number 'Onward Christian Soldiers' was assisted by a trumpet trio from the Murray High School band, which made a glorious climax to an outstanding evening's entertainment. Each ward took its turn and assisted in the task of providing baby sitters for the many children, while their mothers practiced. Each stake board member was chairman of one of the committees which helped make the event a financial as well as an esthetic success." California Mission, Palm Springs District Singing Mothers Present Music For Quarterly Conference March 13, 1966 Third from the right in the third row: June M. Brower, newly sustained President, Palm Springs District Relief Society; Neta Fulkerson, second from the right in the second row, accompanist; assistant director Evelyn Green, at - the right on the first row; LaVirda Stuehser, director, first on the right in the second row; the soloist Shirley La Ventura is fourth from the right, second row. Athelia S. Tanner, President, California Mission Relief Society, reports: "This chorus is made up of six branches, covering an area of approximately 150 miles. For conference, the chorus sang 'The Stranger of Galilee,' and 'Lord, God of Our Fathers,' also 'Sweet Is the Work,' as a prelude, and 'I Need Thee Every Hour' as a postlude. Elder Frank Call, missionary from Brigham City, Utah, accompanied the group on the violin." Ruth H. Jensen is Supervisor of the California Mission Relief Society. Lorin Farr Stake (Utah), Ogden Seventh Ward Celebrates Relief Society Anniversary March 16, 1966 Left to right: Aenone Hall, Second Counselor; Elma Snowball, SecretaryTreasurer; Hazel Owen, literature class leader; Hazel Gray, First Counselor; Helen Clifford, President. Virga W. Swenson, President, Lorin Farr Stake Relief Society, reports: "After a sketch of the organization of Relief Society in 1842, one of the sisters was especially honored for her devotion to Relief Society. Sister Hazel Jones Owen has been the literature class leader for seventeen years without a break. She read her latest poem, and other compositions by her were read by sisters of Relief Society. Sister Owen has had poems published in The Relief Society Magazine and in The Improvement Era. A corsage and a Relief Society pin were presented to Sister Owen in acknowledgment of her many years of service. "A trophy was also awarded to the Seventh Ward for having 100 per cent visiting teaching every month for the past eight years. (This was presented by Sister Swenson.)"' 534 m™ OF DEVOTED SERVICE JULY 1966 Hyrum Stake (Utah) Relief Society Board Completes Series of Ward Conferences Seated, left to right: Einer L. Jensen, high council representative; Alda S. Walters, Second Counselor; Berenece B. Darley, President, Hyrum Stake Relief Society; Loraine R. Allen, First Counselor; Earle W. Allen, President, Hyrum Stake. Back row, standing, left to right: Myra B. Coulam, chorister; Melba S. Nielsen, homemaking leader; Arlene N. Larsen, organist; Angeline J. Smith, SecretaryTreasurer; Donna C. Russell, theology class leader; Elsie B. Poppleton, Magazine representative; Alice N. Olsen, visiting teacher message leader; Radah F. Leishman, social relations class leader; Harriet C. Leishman, cultural refinement class leader. Sister Darley reports: "We have just completed the Relief Society meetings in connection with ward conferences in all eight wards, and we are so happy because we feel that we have had the best conferences and the greatest success over any previous year. Under the direction of the Priesthood, the entire stake board has gone into each ward at a work meeting and put on a special presentation. This year, we used thoughts from Counselor Louise W. Madsen's Relief Society General Conference address, and our theme was 'Relief Society — a Doorway to Many Wonderful Things.' Kay A. Parkinson made eight beautiful paintings or visual aids and put them into a book form, with rings so the pages could be turned." Utah State University Stake Annual Food Fair and Fashion Show April 2, 1966 Front row, left to right: Elder Eldred L. Waldron, adviser from the High Council; Gwen J. Miner, President, Utah State University Stake Relief Society; Jeanette Hogan, First Counselor; Carleen Nuzman, Second Counselor. Sister Miner reports: "Over 500 people attended the annual food and fashion fair sponsored by the Utah State University Stake Relief Society. The theme 'April Showers of Food, Fun, and Fashion' was carried out in decorations, program, and general arrangements. Eight beautiful and unusual booths were constructed by the different ward organizations. Each booth displayed a different type of food prepared by the members of the fifteen wards comprising the stake. The sweepstakes, or 'Fairest of the Fair' was won by Diane Bennett of the Second Ward, whose entry was an unusual and original cherry pie. Following the fashion show, the food was served to those present. The prize for the best booth was won by the Ninth and Tenth Wards for their model of a Chinese pagoda. Over one hundred participated in the fashion show, where there were eight different categories." South Box Elder Stake (Utah) Visiting Teachers Honored at Convention April 1, 1966 Visiting teachers honored for twenty-five or more years of service, front row, left to right: Ruth Pierce; Ruby Davis; Lenora Holmes; Chloe B. Lund; Pamela Gale; Teen Dial; Mary Baker. Back row, left to right: Lovisa Nelson; Neoma Pett; Duella Victor; Myrtle Clifford; Flossie Braegger; Mary Zunzler; Lettie Christopherson. Iva Lou Nebeker, President, South Box Elder Stake Relief Society, reports: "Spring daffodils were presented to all of the honored guests. Lovely luncheon tablecloths were presented to Pamela Gale. Age ninety-three. Oldest Relief Society visiting teacher; Chloe B. Lund, fifty years as a visiting teacher, with forty-eight years of continuous service: and Lenora Holmes, for forty-five years of continuous service. The luncheon cloths were made by Marva Cook, Stake Relief Society work leader. Also honored were a number of Relief Society visiting teachers who had made 100 per cent in their visits during the year."