[Vol53 | July 1966 | Page 538 | Home | Spiritual Living John's Testimony of Jesus | Roy W. Doxey]
536 Lesson Department XT, \ (4 SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 73—John's Testimony of Jesus (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, 93:1-20) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman recognizes the necessity for a knowledge of the mission of Jesus Christ as the Redeemer. INTRODUCTION In the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 93, the reader is told that the only way by which a person may come unto the Lord Jesus Christ is by forsaking his sins. (D&C 93:1.) This truth, stated differently, is that the atonement of Christ remits sins only if the person repents and accepts the Savior by an authorized baptism. (D&C 29:17; 42:1.) CLASS DISCUSSION: Why is it important for each sister to study the life of Christ for herself? Give an_ instance where one of Jesus' teachings has impressed you so that you have modified your actions. 536 TO KNOW HIM The promised blessing to those who keep the commandments is to know God. (John 17:3.) To know God means more than the usually accepted meaning that one may, by the Holy Ghost, know of his existence and of his plan of salvation. (This means of knowledge is known to thousands of Latter-day Saints. Keeping the commandments is an essential to meet the requirements.) Men may also literally "see his face" in this life. (D&C 67:10-14; 93:1.) In commenting upon the words of Jesus to his disciples, as recorded in John 14:12 to 27, the Prophet Joseph Smith said that to receive the other Com- forter mentioned in these verses it was necessary to: (1) receive the Holy Ghost, the first Comforter, after water baptism; (2) hunger and thirst after righteousness; and (3) thoroughly to be proved in keeping the commandments. After this, one would be entitled to receive the other Comforter, the blessing of being in the presence of Jesus Christ and the Father. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pp. 150-151.) Many names might be _ furnished of those who have literally seen the Lord other than Isaiah, Ezekiel, and John the Revelator, named by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The brother of Jared (Ether 3:12-20); Nephi and his brother Jacob (2 Nephi 11:2-3); Moroni (Ether 12:38-41); Stephen, the first Christian martyr (Acts 7:54-56); Sidney Rigdon (D&C 76:22-24); Oliver Cowdery (Ibid., 110:1-10); and others of this dispensation have seen the Lord. To know God in the ultimate sense is to become like him. For this purpose the Melchizedek Priesthood is available to man that the ordinances of the House of the Lord may prepare him for this greatest measure of salvation. (Ibid., 88:19-23; 124:27-28, 41-42.) Elder Marion G. Romney of the Council of the Twelve, counsels us in the way to eternal life: With complete surrender to the spirit of the gospel let us, honestly and without guile, search our own souls and find the weakness which presently impedes our upward climb to eternal life. If that weakness be faultfinding, evil speaking of the Lord's anointed, or profaning the name of Deity, let us desist. If it be LESSON DEPARTMENT neglecting our prayers, let us pause night and morning in our mad rush and kneel with our families and in our secret chambers while we pour out our souls in thanksgiving and petition, until hungering and_thirsting after righteousness we are filled with the Holy Ghost. If it be failure to obtain the sealing ordinances of the temple for ourselves and families, let us straightway prepare to enter that holy place and obtain them before it is too late. If it be the giving way to anger or appetite for the things forbidden in the Word of Wisdom, or surrendering to baser lusts; if it be desecration of the Sabbath day or refusing to contribute of our time and means according to the laws of the Church for the building of the kingdom; whatever it be, let us find it, recognize it, and do something about it daily (Conference Report. October 1956, page 17). THE TRUE LIGHT He who comes to the Savior may not only see his face in the Lord's own due time, and know that he is, but he will also understand that the Savior is the light which lighteth every man that comes into the world. (Zbid., 93:2; see Lesson 65, Relief Society Magazine, August 1965.) It is this influence in the world that ennobles man, raises him to greater heights of accomplishments, and teaches him that there is joy in right doing, whereas, regret and sorrow follow when man does not live by the light he possesses. (D&C 84:45-47; Moroni 7:10-19.) THE ONENESS OF THE FATHER AND THE SON In Section 93 and other scriptures, the doctrine that the Eternal Father and his Son Jesus Christ are one, is known. (D&C 93:3; John 10:30; I John 5:7.) As a part of this concept, further emphasis is given in this lan- 


 guage: the Son is in the Father, and the Father is in the Son. (John 14:10.) This does not mean that the Father and the Son are one person. They are separate and distinct personages. (D&C 130:22; John 17:11, 20- 24.) Of what does this oneness consist? Elder James E. Talmage wrote: This unity is a type of completeness; the mind of any one member of the Trinity is the mind of the others: seeing as each of them does with the eye of perfection, they see and understand alike. Under any given conditions each would act in the same way, guided by the same principles of unerring justice and equity. The one-ness of the Godhead, to which the scriptures so abundantly testify, im- I plies no mystical union of substance, nor any unnatural and therefore impossible blending' of personality. Father, Son, and Holy Ghost are as distinct in their persons and individualities as are any three personages in mortality. Yet their unity of purpose and operation is such as to make their edicts one, and their will the will of God (The Articles of Faith, page 41). CLASS DISCUSSION: Since the three members of the Godhead are one in unity, in what ways must we be a unity with them to receive exaltation? THE FATHER AND THE SON Jesus speaks of himself as having received a fulness from the Father, and he is therefore known as the Father. He, of course, is the Son because he was_ tabernacled in the flesh as the offspring of the Father. (D&C 93: 4.) That Christ is known in the scriptures as the Father is well attested. (Isa. 9:6; Ether 3:14; 2 Nephi 19:6; Mosiah 16:15; Alma 11:38-40.) According to an exposition on 540 the doctrine of the Father and the Son by The First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles, issued on June 30, 1916, there are three different meanings of the title "Father" as applied to Jesus Christ. These are: (1) "Father" as Creator (Ether 4:7; Mosiah 16:15); (2) "Father" of those who abide in his gospel (D&C 50:41; 25:1; 34:3; 39:1-4); (3) "Father" because he represents the Father who gave him the right to use the title (John 5:43; 3 Nephi 20:35; 28:10; D&C 50: 43.) THE WORKS OF THE FATHER MANIFEST Jesus came into the world (1) to perform the works of his Father; and (2) to testify that men might know of the Father. (D&C 93:5; John 5:19.) In this latter sense he became the revelation of God to the world, and, therefore, he was known as the "Word." (John 1:1, 14; D&C 93:8; Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 346.) Jesus was also the ''Word" because "the word of God came through Him and was embodied in Him" (PENROSE, CHARLES W.: Conference Report, April 1915, page 37). JOHN'S RECORD The introduction to Section 93 in the Doctrine and Covenants and, also the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 590, identify the testator of the Savior in this revelation to be John the Beloved, the apostle of the Lord. Of him it is recorded that he saw and bore record of the Lord's glory, but his complete record is yet to be revealed. (D&C 93:6.) The author of the Book of John reveals the in- completeness of that record by saying that "the world itself could not contain the books that should be written" about the Savior. (John 21:25.) The promise is given, however, that the fulness of John's record will be revealed "if you are faithful" (D&C 93:18). JESUS AS CREATOR Jesus was in the beginning before the world was created. (D&C 93:7.) As the messenger of salvation he brought the words of the Father to men, and he also revealed the character of God in his life. Only the Being who was truth, who taught only the truth, ' could redeem men and the world. _Jesus paid for the transgression in the Garden of Eden that 'brought spiritual and physical death into the world, by sacrificing his life, the life of a Being who was sinless and capable of rescuing man from these deaths. (Ibid., verses 8-9; 2 Nephi 9:6- 12; D&C 45:3-4.) The Savior redeemed us, as the apostle Paul ' Said: "he hath purchased [us] with his own blood" (Acts 20: 28). John testifies that men were made by the Savior; in fact, all things were his creation. (D&C 93:10.) This earth was created by him through the "light of Christ"; consequently, all men were created through him, for all are made of the dust of the earth. (Genesis 3:19.) The fulness with which Christ is the Creator is expressed in this authoritative source: Christ was the actual Maker of the worlds, as an architect is the actual maker of the houses he builds. They were made by Him. But they were LESSON DEPARTMENT also made through Him; for He was as stated before, the Executive of the Father in the work of creation. They were also made of Him; for He is the very source of the light and life that permeate creation (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, p. 591). It should also be noted that not only was Christ the Creator of this earth but of "worlds." (D&C 93:10; 88:6-10.) THE ONLY BEGOTTEN OF THE FATHER The references to Jesus in the scriptures as the "Only Begotten of the Father' are many. (John 3:16, 18; 2 Nephi 25:12; Alma 9:26; D&C 93:11; 20:21; Moses 6:52.) The First Presidency, in 1916, affirmed the literalness of Jesus' birth by his mortal mother, Mary, and the Eternal Father. Elder James E. Talmage has also written about this doctrine. (The Articles of Faith, page 466; Jesus the Christ, page 81.) Because he was the Only Begotten Son of the Father in the flesh, it was possible for him to offer the infinite atonement for men. FROM GRACE TO GRACE John's testimony is that Jesus grew from grace to grace, that all things were not his at first. And I, John, saw that he received not of the fulness at the first, but received grace for grace; And he received not of the fulness at first, but continued from grace to grace, until he received a fulness; And thus he was called. The Son of God, because he received not of the fulness at the first (D&C 93:12-14). Born as a babe, reared from boyhood to manhood, the Child Jesus developed as did other children. We do not know how much the memory of his former 


 life in the spirit world was withheld, that his growth might be an experience of mortality. Elder Talmage points out, however, that his growth was "from good to greater good, not from evil to good" (Jesus the Christ, page 112). In the temple at the age of twelve, Jesus knew of his divine parentage through the Eternal Father. He was about his Father's business, not the business of Joseph, his legal father. (Jesus the Christ, pages 113-116.) The Bible is silent on Jesus' boyhood and up to the time of his ministry at thirty years, except for the event of the temple at the age of twelve. (Luke 2:41- 52.) Additional information regarding his formative years to the time of his ministry is given us by the Prophet Joseph Smith as follows: And it came to pass that Jesus grew up with his brethren, and waxed strong, and waited upon the Lord for the time of his ministry to come. And he served under his father, and he spake not as other men, neither could he be taught; for he needed not that any man should teach him. And after many years, the hour of his ministry drew nigh (Inspired Version, Matt. 3:24-26). "For he needed not that any man should teach him" suggests that the normal difficulties of teaching and disciplining were not present in his life. Ultimately, as an exalted man, Jesus declared that he had received all power from the Father. (Matt. 28:16-18; D&C 93:16-17.), Even as Jesus received a fulness after the resurrection, so also may the faithful in their exalted state. (Romans 8:17; D&C 84: 38.) 542 THE HEAVENS WERE OPENED In testifying of Christ's divinity as the Only Begotten Son of 7 God, John refers to the time when Jesus was baptized. (D&C 93:15.) At his baptism the heavens were opened and John the Baptist saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove, with the voice of the Father saying, ""This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased." (Matt. 3:17; c. F. Mark 1:9-11; Luke 3:21-22.) Did the Holy Ghost come in the form of a dove? No, said the Prophet Joseph Smith, but the dove is the sign of the Holy Ghost. (DHC V:260-261.) Several times the Father testified from the heavens of his relationship to his Only Begotten Son. SUMMARY The intent of John's testimony given by the Savior to the Prophet Joseph Smith in the first 19 verses of Section 93, is to show that Jesus Christ is divine, because, First, the Savior is the true lght which gives understanding to all men. Second, he is the "Word," the Giver of the revelations, and he was the revelation of God to the world while in his mortal ministry. Third, he is known as the Father because he so completely represents the Father in will, mind, and purpose. Fourth, he became man's Redeemer and Savior by giving his life in atonement for sin. Fifth, he is the Creator of worlds, including our earth, and, he is also man's Creator. Sixth, he is literally the Only Begotten Son of the Father in the flesh and as such received a fulness from the Father. CONCLUSION What do these truths mean to the Latter-day Saints? The Savjor says that they were given, that you may understand and know how to worship, and know what you worship, that you may come unto the Father in my name, and in due time receive of his fulness. For if you keep my commandments you shall receive of his fulness, and be glorified in me as I am in the Father; therefore, I say unto you, you shall receive grace for grace (D&C 93: 19-20). LESSON DEPARTMENT CLASS DISCUSSION: Discuss your feelings toward Christ as they have been influenced by this lesson. FOR HOME CONSIDERATION: Following the advice of Elder Romney for every one to search his soul and discover his weaknesses, each sister could list two or three of her weaknesses which she feels are most impeding her eternal progress, and endeavor to overcome them.