[Vol53 | July 1966 | Page 519 | Home | A German Holiday Buffet - Part II | Carla Sansom]
German Holiday Buffet aus a Part II Carla Sansom In looking at my salad list, in preparing my German holiday buffet, I find five salads which I can prepare the day before. They are: string bean; red beet-herring; pineapple-cheese with lime jello; fresh cranberry relish; and orange cream salad. The cucumber salad, and the shrimp salad I will prepare shortly before my guests arrive. STRING BEAN SALAD 2 cans string beans 1%, c. Oil 2 green onions, chopped 3 tbsp. Vinegar 1 tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Lemon juice 1 clove garlic (cut in half) pepper, paprika, onion salt Pour water off beans and put beans in a bowl. Sprinkle salt on beans and green onions. Let sit. Meanwhile soak garlic clove in oil and add vinegar and lemon juice. Pour over beans. Add pepper, paprika, and onion salt to taste. Toss well. Keep in refrigerator. RED BEET-HERRING SALAD 1 can small whole pickled beets 1 tbsp. White vinegar (1 Ib.) 14, tsp. Salt 2 or 3 herring filets coarse ground pepper 1 large dill pickle 1 tsp. Sugar 2 medium-sized onions 2 to 3 tbsp. Mayonnaise 1 large apple, diced 1, c. Sour cream 2 hard-boiled eggs Separate beets from juice. Dice beets, herring filets, pickle, onions, apple, eggs. Turn into serving bowl. Add vinegar, salt, pepper, and sugar. Toss. Turn mayonnaise and sour cream over ingredients and toss well. Taste. (You might wish to add a few drops of lemon juice, a dash of sugar, or two or three tbsp. Of whipped cream.) Chill. PINEAPPLE-CHEESE SALAD WITH LIME JELLO 1 pkg. Lime jello 14, Ib. Medium nippy cheese, 1 can crushed pineapple shredded You can double this amount. Prepare jello as directed. Mix crushed pineapple with cheese. Mix with jello, and pour into mold. FRESH CRANBERRY RELISH 1 Ib. Fresh cranberries 1 c. Sugar 2 medium-sized oranges Wash and drain cranberries. Put through a grinder. Cut oranges in half, remove seeds, and put through grinder, with peel. Turn into serving bowl. Add sugar and mix. Chill. This relish can be kept in refrigerator for months. Aging improves the flavor. 


 ORANGE CREAM SALAD 4 egg yolks 4 egg whites, beaten 14 c. Sugar 1 pt. Whipping cream 12 tbsp. Orange juice 1 can mandarin orange segments 4 tbsp. Lemon juice orange rind 3 envelopes plain gelatine Cream egg yolks with sugar. Add juices. Prepare gelatine as directed. Mix with above mentioned ingredients. Beat egg whites and whipping cream. Fold into mixture. Pour in bowl and garnish with mandarin orange segments. Sprinkle with orange rind. Chill. CUCUMBER SALAD 2 medium-sized tucumbers, peeled 4 slices fried bacon, crumbled and sliced pepper as desired 4 tbsp. Vinegar ll4 tbsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Lemon juice 1 tbsp. Sugar 2-3 green onions, chopped 14 c. Parsley, chopped Peel and slice cucumbers. Add other ingredients. Mix and chill. SHRIMP SALAD Prepare a tossed salad, according to your favorite vegetable mixture. Add two cans of shrimp. (Rinse shrimp and drain before adding to salad.) Toss. Garnish with lemon slices. Dressing 1 pt. Chili sauce 1 tsp. Sugar 2 boiled eggs, chopped 1 tsp. Horseradish lf, pt. Sour cream dash of pepper 1/4, Cc. Mayonnaise dash of salt Mix and chill. Serve with salad. On the morning of the buffet I will make the cakes. I am going to have German marble kuchen, cheese cake, and butterkuchen. GERMAN MARBLE KUCHEN 3 c. Sifted flour 3 unbeaten eggs 2 tsp. Double-acting baking 1 c. Milk powder 114 tsp. Vanilla 14, tsp. Salt 34, c. Chocolate syrup 1 c. Butter or margarine 14 tsp. Soda 2 c. Sugar Sift flour with baking powder and salt. Cream butter thoroughly; gradually add sugar, creaming until light and fluffy. Blend in eggs, one at a time, beating well after each. Combine milk and vanilla. Add alternately with dry ingredients. Blend thoroughly after each addition. Pour 24 of batter into 10-inch tube pan, greased on the bottom. Blend into remaining batter the chocolate syrup, and soda. Pour chocolate batter over white batter. Do not mix. Bake in moderate oven (350° F.) 45 minutes. Place a sheet of foil on top of pan and bake 20 to 25 minutes longer. Cool completely in pan. 520 CHEESE CAKE 114 c. Graham cracker crumbs 14 tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Butter 2 8-0z. Pkgs. Cream cheese 2 tbsp. Sugar 1 tsp. Vanilla 14, tsp. Lemon juice 14, c. Sugar 4 eggs, separated 2 tbsp. Flour 1 c. Cream Blend the crumbs with the butter and 2 tbsp. Sugar; press into the bottom of a 9-inch spring pan. Blend the 14 c. Sugar with the flour, salt, and cream cheese, softened at room temperature. Add vanilla and lemon juice. Add the egg yolks, one at a time, mixing well after each yolk is added. Add cream and blend thoroughly. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites, and pour the mixture on the top of the crumbs. Bake in slow oven, 325°, for 1 hour, or until ''set'' in the center. Cool before removing the ring of the pan. Can be topped with blueberry or cherry pie filling. Garnish with whipped cream. BUTTERKUCHEN 1 c. Milk 2 eggs 14, c. Sugar 4 c. Unsifted flour 1 tsp. Salt 1 stick butter (14 Ib.) 1 stick butter (14 Ib.) 14, c. Sugar and cinnamon mix 14 c. Warm water 1 c. Chopped walnuts 2 pkgs. Dry yeast Scald milk; stir in sugar, salt, and butter; cool to lukewarm. Measure warm water into large warm bowl. Sprinkle in yeast; stir until dissolved. Stir in lukewarm milk mixture, eggs, and half the flour; beat until smooth. Stir in remaining flour to make stiff batter. Cover and let rise in warm place 45 minutes. Punch down, and spread dough in well-greased 18-inch square pan or one of similar size. Let rise until doubled in bulk. Dot with remaining stick of butter; sprinkle with cinnamon-sugar mixture and nuts. Bake in moderate oven, 375°, for about 20 to 25 minutes. Remove from oven and frost with the following lemon icing: Lemon Icing 1. C. Powdered sugar 3 tsp. Lemon juice For meat I will serve a leg of pork which I roast in the oven at 325°F. 30 to 45 minutes per pound. Half an hour before meat is done baste with a mixture consisting of: 1 tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Marjoram 14, tsp. Pepper 2 tbsp. Lemon juice 2 tbsp. Chopped onions This mixture gives pork a wonderful flavor. I have found that when guests are coming to my house during the holidays, they are tired of ham and turkey. I will also serve a sirloin tip roast, and some sliced Italian salami. For relishes! Will serve cherry tomatoes, olives, and carrot and celery sticks. The celery sticks I will top with cream cheese, spiced with onion salt, pepper, paprika, and a dash of horseradish salt. I will also have a variety of pickles, homemade chili sauce, apple jelly, and red and black currant jelly. For drinks, we will have hot elderberry juice with lemon slices. (I pick the elderberries in the fall in the mountains, and put them up like grape juice.) I will get out my Irish linen, my silver and crystal, and my white china plates. * §21 alee My alleen Sang Genevieve Van Wagenen Mother was no singer. In fact, she had so little faith in her ability that she never even tried out for the ward choir. But the songs mother sang in our home had a lasting effect upon my life—an effect for good. Mother sang at her work, whether ironing, doing dishes, dusting, cooking, or mending. She sang as she rocked her infants to sleep. It was not unusual, when coming in from play, to see mother sitting in a rocker, singing a lullaby to her drowsy babe. She never interrupted her singing, or stopped her rocking to make inquiries or give orders. Instead, she continued singing, composing her own words to fit the tune, as she sang along. She would sing words of instruction or counsel which she wished us to carry out, while she was occupied. One of mother's favorite hymns was "I Need Thee Every Hour." To this tune, and from her rocker, she could operate her home, if need be, sort of like remote control. Her melodic instructions would go something like this: "I'm getting the baby to sleep, so please don't disturb. Go wash your face and hands and get a clean dress on. As soon as I lay the baby down, I will comb your hair. I want you to go to the store for me. Hurry fast, I want to do some baking before dinner." Mother was a versatile melodizer. Other mothers in our neighborhood did not operate on this system. But with mother, it was efficiency plus. Through this system, she answered our questions, settled our childish disputes, supervised tidying the home, and organized her household, all while singing a lullaby.