[Vol53 | July 1966 | Page 504 | General Feature | Editorial: A Pattern for the Daughters of Zion | Vesta P. Crawford]
[Editorial: A Pattern for the Daughters of Zion Vesta P. Crawford]

EDITORIAL 

 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart trene W. Buehner Edith S. Elfiott Irene C. Lloyd Florence J. Madsen Hazel S. Love Leone G. Layton Fawn H. Sharp Bianche B. Stoddard Celestia J. Taylor Evon W. Peterson Anne R. Gledhill Aleine M. Young Belva B. Ashton Josie B. Bay Zola J. McGhie Alberta H. Christensen Oa J. Cannon Mildred B. Eyring Lila B. Walch Edith P. Backman Lenore C. Gundersen Winniefred S. Manwaring Marjorie C. Pingree Elna P. Haymond Darlene C. Dedekind Mary R. Young Cleone R. Eccles Mary V. Cameron Edythe K. Watson Afton W. Hunt Ellen N. Barnes Wealtha S. Mendenhall Kathryn S. Gilbert Elsa T. Peterson Verda F. Burton Fanny S. Kienitz Myrtle R. Olson Elizabeth B. Winters Alice C. Smith LaRue H. Rosell Lucile P. Peterson Jennie R. Scott Elaine B. Curtis Alice L. Wilkinson Zelma R. West A PATTERN FOR THE DAUGHTERS OF ZION Sing, O daughter of Zion... Be glad and rejoice with all the heart.... The Lord hath taken away thy judgments, he has cast out thine enemy. Thou shalt not see evil any more (Zephaniah 3:14-15). There are many women who seem to be blessed with an inward quietude, with a_ serene strength. It is not that their lives have been easy, or that they have received a full measure of temporal blessings, rather, it would appear, they have learned patience and self-discipline, and in all their comings and goings, in all their joys and their trials, they have been comforted, encouraged, and enlightened by faith. It is as if a great light had been placed along their pathways, revealing the purposes of earth, and establishing a testament of guidance from the beginning to the farewell time of mortal life. It is as if there had been developed and_ exercised continually a reverence for the teachings of the Master—hold thy peace; be just and forgiving; judge not; speak no evil... Await the certain coming of the Lord. Such attitudes and beliefs are not fully achieved in the lives of most of us, yet, to a degree and in a certain measure, all are aware of these objectives. All of us have observed that among women there are those whose mastery of self has become so evident, that they are able and willing to give to others some part of their own great store of spiritual richness. Who among us can give to others that which she does not herself possess? Herein, perhaps, lies the basis for individual progress and for effectiveness in all group relationships—in the family, among friends, in civic responsibility and participation, in our devotion to Relief Society. We ourselves need to be of worth, and, from that faith and strength, seek out and establish ourselves in further fields of usefulness. It may be noted, often with great significance, that there are special graces and attributes which endear a woman to her associates, and can be regarded as feminine adornments. A truly devoted woman would wish to give the richness of her love to those deserving her concern, even if she knew that her love could not presently be returned. She would desire to serve without the recompense of visible appreciation. Another grace of womanhood would be a true concern for the welfare and happiness of those who walk adjoining paths on the way to eternal life, empathy and discernment extending in a most kind and gracious manner to those who are in most urgent need. These would be the children, who are helpless and dependent in the beginning of life; and the aged, who, again, cannot meet their physical and spiritual needs alone. Others in need would be those who are ill, whose bodies have been injured, or whose spirits have been impaired and broken. A further attribute of womanly grace and accomplishment is a mastery of words, especially a mastery of those words which never should be expressed. Sharp and bitter words are for permanent discarding—not for use. Wisdom and strength are the endowments of the woman who is able to think before she speaks, and then, sometimes not to speak at all, until a new and better subject has come up for discussion. Placing first things first is an accomplishment not easily acquired. The byways of life are often adorned with outward enticements. The nearest responsibility is sometimes dressed in drab apparel. The mere asking—what are the antecedents of this small measure of time over which I have some control, and what will be the progeny of this moment in a later year—the mere asking of this question is not easy, and its answer may be hard. Sometimes, even after we have truly measured and evaluated a responsibility, we may feel that we have a right to certain freedoms in view of our limited strength. It is then that there may be found some avenues of light and joy that, at first, had seemed not to be inherent in the precedence of time and effort. Our time, our lives are not ours alone. They are gifts from our Heavenly Father, as the words of the seventy-fourth Psalm have expressed for us: ''The day is thine, the night also is thine: thou hast prepared the light and the sun. Thou has set all the borders of the earth: thou hast made summer and winter." —V. P. C. 505 Wealtha S. Mendenhall Resigns From the General B It is with regret that the General Board announces the resignation of Wealtha S. Mendenhall from the General Board of Relief Society as of April 27, 1966. The resignation was tendered because of th necessity of prolonged absences from Salt Lake City of Sister Mendenhall as the business interests of Brother Mendenhall call him away from Utah.