[Vol53 | July 1966 | Page 515 | Home | Vacation Plans Kathryn | E. Franks]
otty asked, looking concerned. Mother laughed even harder now. "No. As I remember, he had fallen in the day before. There weren't any dry clothes." "Mom," asked Sally, studying the picture at the extreme left, 516 "who is the boy standing beside the tent flap, the one with the bandaged toe?" "That," explained Mother between giggles, "is your Uncle John's friend, Dave. He stuck his toe too close to a nasty turtle. We thought that toe would never stop bleeding." Mother's laugh faltered at this point and died down. "Oh, how exciting,' commented Billy, coming to attention. "Who is the girl standing in front of the tree?' Father asked. "Looks as if she had measles." Mother bent closer and examined the picture. "Oh, that's my cousin Louise no those were not measles."' She concentrated a moment longer. "I know now. Those were mosquito bites. The mosquitoes simply ate her up. She does look as if she had measles, though, doesn't she?" "What in the world was all that stuff piled behind the tents in this corner picture?" Father asked, baffled. "1'd forgotten about that," Mother said. 'There had been a terrific electrical storm the night before. Sometime after midnight, we moved out of those tents fast! We had to pull the tents down and lug them to the cars before the wind tore them apart. You should have seen us kids scrambling for the inside of those touring cars, while the thunder and lightning popped and crackled around us."' Mother's laugh had _ stopped suddenly, like an old Model T going uphill. "I hated those storms," she said, shuddering. "You didn't answer my ques- tion,'"' Father reminded her. "Oh, yes, that stuff piled behind the tents. Those were twigs and branches we had to clear away before we could pitch tents the next morning: Were we hungry before we had breakfast that morning!"' "And why all the sacks and buckets hanging from the tree?" Sally asked, suddenly interested. "Mmmmm ants. They got into the food so badly my Mother had to hang the food in the trees. When they reached the food up there we had to carry it out to the little raft in the middle of the river. I remember we moved that food three or four times a day." "That sounds like fun," shouted Sally. "Let's go there,' chimed in Billy. ""We could live like Robinson Crusoe. I'd like to see one of those electrical storms. I'd climb right up to the top of one of those high trees and watch the light..." "Uh huh," Mother interrupted, looking suspiciously at Billy. "I bet you would!" "I wouldn't mind falling into the water," added Dotty, "be just like T. V." Mother eyed her dubiously. The corner of Father's mouth twitched as he held back a smile. "We could make a raft like Huckleberry Finn," said Sally, eagerly.

VACATION PLANS "Now, just a minute, children," Mother added quickly, "I think I may have been a little hasty. Let's look at those folders your father brought home. Let's study the maps." Everyone rocked backwards, laughing—not at Mother, but with her. Even Dotty got the idea and stood up scratching her legs. "IT simply detest mosquitoes," she hissed through the gap in her front teeth. "You all understand," Mother said, "it was fun then. But I doubt if I could cope with the situations in the way my Mother did. I promise I won't get this old album out again." She leaned back and placed it upon the small table. ''Now, what were you saying about summer resorts?" '""Something with modern facilities?" Father asked, teasing. "Yes, something like that," Mother answered sheepishly. Resuming their circle, they tried to stop laughing. When they finally — settled down, Father said, "What we'll promise to do if we are close, is to take your Mother back to her favorite childhood camping spot for just one day, for a real oldfashioned family picnic." With squeals and '"hurrahs" they all agreed. ERRATUM — OMISSIONS ON MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1965 Through an oversight, the record of Juab Stake, Utah, was not listed on the Magazine Honor Roll published in the May 1966 Magazine. The record of Juab Stake was outstanding, with all of the wards achieving 100 per cent or over in Magazine subscriptions. Glendale Stake, California, was aiso omitted from the list of stakes in which all the wards achieved 100 per cent or over. East Los Angeles, with 128 per cent, was one of the ten stakes achieving: the highest percentages.