The Indian Appeal
Address delivered at the Relief Society Conference October 1, 1930
By Julia A. Farnsworth Lund
In the aroused consciousness of our duty in relation to our fellow men we have traveled a long way on the road toward practical Christianity. There are between three and four hundred thousand people in our own country, constituting the only wards the United States has, yet their cause has never, perhaps, been given sympathetic, intelligent consideration. The Anglo-Saxon conception of property rights is the basis of our whole governmental system. The Constitution of the United States and all subsequent legislation, both state and national, has carefully safeguarded this principle. In direct opposition to Communism, our civilization rests on the recognition of individual liberty and the principle of private ownership. This is the foundation of our American initiative and the source of our national greatness. It is paradoxical that this immortal, self-evident truth, should be so completely ignored, so wholly lacking as it has been, in all our dealings with the Indian. The Indian problem is the oldest and most direct social responsibility of the national government. There is much in the past record of the dealings of our government with the Indian, of which we can not be proud. We never have fully acknowledged our debt of gratitude. The Government has not protected its wards—the Indians— yet it can never honorably disavow its responsibility. Intimately associated with the Indian problem is that of our public lands, which we can only note in passing—as the first—and by far the greatest source of revenue to our national government since the first territory was ceded to it by the States in 1781 under the Articles of Confederation. After the ratification of the Federal Constitution as the states grew, so did the public domain, and it was from these great tracts of land, as a source of revenue, that our internal improvements were almost entirely accomplished. Military services were paid for— our highways and our waterways and our railroads were constructed —our colleges and universities were endowed—in fact the development of the entire United States, great in all that makes a nation, was through the land that at one time belonged to the Indians. We do not discount the splendid accomplishments of our own people. There is one thing however, that we do regret—it is that in the storm and stress of our own great aims and achievements, the like of which no other country shows, we have not considered the rights, nor safeguarded the interests of the unfortunate race, displaced of its own possessions by our march of progress. As Red Jacket said in a council meeting with the whites in 1805, "Brothers, our seats were once large and yours were small. You have now become a great people, and we have scarcely a place left to spread our blankets."
88 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The real trouble, perhaps, rests upon the fact that the Government does not do anything very well in which the people are not interested. The people have been too much absorbed in their own affairs to pay attention to the Indian question, disavowing all responsibility to those who lost their land, when once we gained possession. No better demonstration of this fact can be made than to note the way the Indian Bureau during the past has been managed. It was placed in the Department of the Interior, simply because that was the department of the government which handled the public lands. The human element never entered into the scheme. The Indian Service has for the most part been a political catch ball with all the attending evils; a tottering rule, built upon a great injustice and allowed to continue. If we were to begin a recital of the 465 broken treaties of the government with the Indians, of the wholesale betrayal of trust, the utter lack of the spirit of humanity and fair play, there would be space for nothing else. The Indian wars were followed by a sort of military subjugation, which gave place to the reservation plan—both schemes as wholly lacking in proper adjustment as can be conceived, the politician playing his vicious game throughout. The policy of Indian isolation at once put him out of step with the rest of human progress, and he has been subjected to a lot of experimentation. That type of control has operated to restrict, depress and submerge the personality of the Indian. In speaking of this, one young student said, "I plead that I be allowed to make my own mistakes rather than that another make them for me." The policy of the government has made of the Indians a socially broken race, but social retardation is not an evidence of basic inferiority. Scientists tell us that the economic values of plants and foods developed by the Indians far surpass any contributions made by men of Luther Burbank's type, splendid as their work may have been, while the textiles and contributions in the field of art surpassed those of European origin. At present in the United States we have in the neighborhood of three hundred and fifty thousand Indians with whom the National government has some relationship. The Indian service reports that it deals with about two hundred tribes located in twenty-six different states. A word should be said about the oil-rich Osages. Stories of their great wealth have created a popular belief that all Indians are rich and extravagant. They number about three thousand, less than one per cent of the total. Tales regarding this little group have blinded the people of the United States and have kept them from understanding that the great majority of Indians are poor; desperately poor. The facts that present themselves are, that the Indians are face to face with the civilization of the whites. The hands of the clock cannot be turned backward. The advancing tide of white civilization has as a rule, largely destroyed the economic foundation upon which the Indian source of supply, as well as their culture, rested. This economic foundation can not be restored as it was. The Indians cannot be set apart away from contact with the whites. There are therefore two very well defined objectives for all work with or for the Indians. That is, to fit them either to merge into the social and economic life of the prevailing civilization as developed by the whites, or to live in the presence of that civilization, at least in ac-
THE INDIAN APPEAL 89
cordance with something of their ideals. By far the greater number of Indians desire to become absorbed in our body politic, so one of their own race, Mr. Cloud, President of the American Indian Institute at Wichita tells us; and they desire to become good citizens. But there are still some tribes practically untouched by the contact with the white race, preserving their own culture. This should be protected, assisted, modified perhaps, but not destroyed. The Indian problem, as any racial problem, is so stupendous, when we begin to consider the needs that it is impossible to discuss it in one meeting. Mr. Meriam's book covers over a thousand pages and most of the material is in the form of constructive suggestions for the Service. First of all, that the government place the Indian Service abreast of its best social agencies such as the Public Health, The Children's Bureau and certain bureaus of the Department of Agriculture. The fundamental requirement is that the task of the Indian Service be recognized as primarily educational in the broadest sense of that word and that it be made an efficient educational agency, devoting its main energies to the social and economic advancement of the Indians so that they may be absorbed into the prevailing civilization or be fitted to live in the presence of that civilization at least in accordance with a minimum standard of health and decency. The Indian is beginning to resent any form of charity; he is fast out-growing adolescence and is tired of being led by the hand. He wants a voice directing his own affairs. The greatest injury that can ever be done to a race is to make them feel that they are of no value to the nation. This has been strikingly true of the Indian. He just wants to know what "it's all about" and when he understands he responds remarkably well. He needs good citizens to emulate. As we have said it is a great educational program, built upon the normal factors of life. Whatever will stimulate the initiative and create an adequate incentive for life or operate for the destruction of the same, for the white race will be found applicable to the American Indian. Some of the fine efforts of the government have not succeeded and the attitude of the Indians toward the whites varies; but this is usually conditioned by the type of whites with whom they have had association. The environment of the Indian should be given careful consideration and he should be changed by modifying his surroundings. He should have proper sanitation, nutrition, minimum standards of health, vocational guidance, child care, child training, leisure time activities, community planning, home making, water storage, good roads. It does not make any difference into what field you look, agricultural, educational, recreational, industrial, all the factors that make for a higher standard of living, mean just as much to the Indian as to his white brother. I have not spoken of the specific abuses that have been so prevalent in the Indian Service. The poor schools, wretched housing, the malnutrition, the woeful lack of the proper safeguards to health, the total lack of social service, the exploitation of Indian labor, especially the children, the floggings, and so on. It is a dark page in American history. There is already an enlightened public opinion demanding that the Indian Service comply with
90 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
other educational and social agencies in its objectives. All the people can help by cooperating with the Service in establishing sound standards. They can study the reports from the government service and insist upon full statements of conditions. Great good also can be done by cooperation both in aiding Indians and in improving the attitude of white communities toward the Indians and the attitude of the Indians toward their white neighbors. The great national educational agencies are interested in Indian education in all its manifold forms of expression. The national health agencies are interested in Indian health, but the Indian Service needs more than that: it needs the distinct contribution of modern social work in making individual adjustments and in improving family life and community development. In the words of Dr. Lewis Meriam we may say: "Today the American people have the opportunity if they will to write the closing chapters in the history of the relationship of the national government and the Indians. The national conscience is stirred. A demand is growing that the government shall recognize in full its obligation toward its Indian wards, and that it furnish them with a service abreast of the best rendered any people." The cry of the Indian today is for the release of his person and of his personality. President Hoover has said, "The days of the pioneer are not over. There are continents of human welfare, of which we have penetrated only the coastal plain." Far back in the recesses of the continent there lives this Indian race, hungry for the grasp of the hand of social understanding and human fellowship. If ever a race were in need of a new birth of freedom it is the American Indian.
Photo by Hileman MONARCH OF THE PAST C. E. Dallin
FROM BRONZE FIGURE OF SQUAW SACHEM One of four figures surrounding an ornamental flagstaff presented to Arlington, Mass., by the Misses Robbins.

