[Vol9 | January 1922 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: The Art of Cookery in the Hotel Utah]

The Art of Cookery in the Hotel | Utah The preparation of food has become an art in modern days. Indeed it has always been considered so in polite nations. Men, (and it is nearly always men who reach the highest place in this famous old art) have been knighted by sovereigns, made famous by poets, and have been considered as philosophers and artists. Indeed, this is not to be wondered at; for chemistry of foods, although not understood and made a part of educational life, until recent years, is still a science in the assembling of materials and making new combinations out of elemental processes; and chemistry is as worthy of study in the kitchen as it is in any laboratory. To create a new dish is no mean achievement; certain underlying principles of combination of materials are known to every cook, trained and untrained, but the blending of flavors, the art of making a dish possess individuality, while still retaining health-giving ingredients—this is a labor which all should respect, and women, at least, should understand. Just recently a famous cook who had created a national reputation for her corn-beef hash, received a legacy of $25,000 from her former mistress and patron, Mrs. Mark Hanna, of Washington, D. C. Of all nations which have made cooking an art, France excels. Thrift and economy are cardinal virtues in that wonderful nation; but the French add to these fundamental virtues the fine apperception which dignifies cooking and makes of ihe house-wifely arts, a national asset. Practically all of the famous chefs (cooks) of ancient and modern times come from France. The European nations without exception secure their finest exponents of the art of cookery from among distinguished French chefs. Scarcely a famous hostelry in Europe or America is without a French chef, who presides with dignity and supreme skill over the laboratories where food is compounded and prepared for the patrons who demand the last word in cookery. We have asked the management of the Hotel Utah to permit us the use of recipes by the locally famous chef, Louis J. Theu, of that Hotel. He chose modest combinations suited to the simple tastes and prudent expenditures of the great mass of readers of the Magazine, though we shall also present some more elaborate recipes so that all of our readers may have an  opportunity of testing their own chemical and culinary powers. The following directions are here given for food combinations: ENGLISH BREAD PUDDING. Cut into half inch pieces, half pound stale crustless bread, soak in a little cold milk five minutes; then squeeze out milk and place in a bowl, s'ir with a wooden spoon a few minutes; then add two ounces of butter, three ounces sugar, three whole eggs, four ounces well picked currants, six crusted macaroons, half teaspoon of vanilla essence, a little salt and two gills of cream. Mix well. Lightly butter a quart pudding mould; drop preparation into it, place in a sauce pan, pour in hot water up to half the height of the mould and set in oven thirty minutes. Remove, unmold the pudding in a hot dish and serve with sweet cream. SPONGE FOR FRENCH BREAD AND ROLLS. Sift on table two pounds best quality thoroughly ripe flour, place half in a bowl sufficiently large to hold six or seven quarts and carefully make a fountain in center of it. Place a half ounce cake of fresh, firm, cold compressed yeast in bowl, ptt over a half pint luke warm water and thoroughly dissolve with hand for two and a half minutes: pour into fountain, mix a little, gradually incorporate flour for five minutes and sharply knead all well together for six minutes. Cover bowl with dry cloth, then lay vessel in a warm place of 80 degrees to rise, (two and a half to three hours), without touching it; the sponge will then have risen to double size, fallen, risen again and be. In proper condition for dough. In using flour for any kind of bread and rolls, always remember never to employ flour when cold or warm, that is to say it should be in a place of 60 degrees temperature at least twelve hours before using it. Dough—Place in a bowl a half pint of luke warm water, as the same quantity of luke warm milk, half ounce of salt and dissolve for a minute; uncover bowl, pour water on sponge, thoroughly knead the whole well together for six minutes, add little by little the remaining pound of flour. The kneading operation after the flour has been added should continue for thirty minutes; lift up dough with the hand, and knock as hard as you can against bottom of vessel ten different times, cover vessel and allow to rise for two and a half hours again, then shape your bread or rolls as you like and let rise again for a few minutes then it will be ready to bake. Be careful to see the oven is at proper degree of heat.  ROAST LEG OF LAMB (WITH JARDINIERE OF VEGETABLES ) Have nice tender, rather small, leg of lamb. Trim the handle bone neatly, rub half ounce butter or good fat all over it. Season with salt and pepper; place in roasting pan, put little cold water into the pan and roast in the oven for one hour, basting it once in a while, remove from the oven, dress on a hot dish, skim off the fat from the gravy and strain over the meat— dress the jardiniere all around the leg and serve. JARDINIERE OF VEGETABLES. With a small vegetable scoop, dig out two medium size carrots and turnips, place them in a sauce pan with a pint of water, let cook until soft about thirty minutes, drain the vegetables, put them back in the saucepan with a little butter, adding green peas, string beans cut into half inch pieces, season to taste, and mix well together, without mashing, let slowly cook on the corner of the range for five minutes and it will be ready to use. A piece of cauliflower, asparagus tip, and a few very small Brussels sprouts can be added to the jardiniere if at hand. CELERY AND APPLE SALAD WITH MAYONNAISE. Have two stalks fresh, white, crisp, celery, trim off the outer leaves, wash thoroughly, drain well, then cut into small julienne-shaped strips, place on a napkin and dry it. Peel three medium size apples, cut them in julienne same as the celery. Place both in a salad bowl, season with dressing and mix well and serve. MAYONNAISE DRESSING. Place two fresh egg yolks in a small bowl, salt, and a little white pepper, and English mustard, tablespoon good vinegar. Briskly beat up the whole together for a minute, then add, drop by drop, a pint of good cool olive oil, continually mixing while adding it, and continue mixing four minutes after the oil has been added, add the juice of one-quarter of a sound lemon; mix for one minute more, then use when required. Place the surplus of the Mayonnaise in a cup, put it in a cool place as it will keep in good condition for two or three days. The disarmament conference at Washington, in taking up the matter of financial burdens, with our U. S. Army costing $418,000,000 a year rightly considers that a staggering amount. Why not "disarm" the whole tobacco business and save $2,000,- 000,000 a year? Some day we will. Mark the prediction.