[Vol9 | January 1922 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Reforming Mother]

Reforming Mother Mrs. Grafton had a modern home, and she was a modern and thrifty house keeper. But to the Relief Society lessons on Socihl Service and the better babies' campaign she paid little attention. Not because she didn't have babies, nor because she knew all about them; but because she didn't have time, she thought, to be both an efficient house wife and an ideal mother, so she chose housework as her ideal and while she cleaned she scolded, and while she scolded she cleaned. Her work was all done by schedule and her meals prepared accordingly. She thought little about her babies' diet—they usun!- ly ate whatever the family ate and whenever she had time to feed them. Not even the babies' wet feet or cold fingers could often induce her to turn from her work to look after them; not unless the case was very urgent. One day little Jay came in with a gash in his forehead. It was deep and bleeding and it had taken her so long to dress the wound, that the mother was thirty-three minutes late with her work by schedule. To be sure she could let him apply the culd water clothes himself as the children very often did; after the first pangs of pain were over Jay started to unfold a little secret to his mother. He whispered something that some one had told him at school that day. Mrs. Grafton did not very often have time to listen to her children's troubles or joys but today she listened first from curiosity, then with resentment. When he had finished his stammered tale, she arose hastily and said angrily, "Jay, you must not listen to such talk, you are too young. And I do not care to have you play any more with Stanford Stanley." "But mama!" he cried, '"Stan's mother told him, and said that it was all true." "Jay, I will go over and speak to Stanley's mother about it myself, you may lie quietly here while I am gone." So saying she threw a light robe over the boy where he was lying, then she went to her own room to dress her hair and to slip on a clean stiffly-starched house dress. Her chamber window was slightly raised and the wind blew gently across the snow white spread and waved the delicate hand embroidery on the fresh clean slips. She took a last survey of the house before leaving to see that she had omitted no detail of housework. Everything was in perfect order. Her motto was, "Clean while you are still clean, and you will always be pat ae hey REFORMING MOTHER - 33. Clean." She pretty well lived up to her motto, regardless of any other neglected duty. As she neared the Stanley home she could see the mother out in the front yard, playing with the children, which was certainly an unheard of occurrence at the Grafton home. As the two neighbors met, Mrs. Stanley explained that she had left her work in the house to show the children the best way to play a new game over which they had. Been jangling.. Then Mrs. Stanley left the children, ushered her visitor into a room, passing over a floor which had been left partly mopped; glanced around with an, "I-told-you-so air, work and play can not be kept up in the same housewife's life." She sat down stiffly in an undusted chair, and then like an arrow flew straight to the point of her mission. "I do not wish to detain you, Mrs. Stanley, as I know you have plenty to do, and like the rest of us would not like to be hindered in your work. "But I came to speak to you about our boys. Your boy has been telling Jay about the mysteries of life, and I certainly do not approve of it." "And why certainly not?" Quietly asked the hostess. "Because," and her eyes flashed on the verge of anger, "because I do not care to have him told yet, he will find things out soon enough." "Yes, Mrs. Grafton, that he will, but from whom?" "Solve it out himself, I suppose, when he gets older. That's the way I did." "Yes, maybe he would and maybe he would not. But you must remember, Mrs. Grafton, that your circumstances were different from his. He goes to a public school while you were taught at home by a governess. And besides, he is a boy—but say, how was it that Stanford happened to tell Jay?" I told him not to tell any of the boys unless it was because they had a base understanding of the sacred mysteries of life." "T wonder why he told him?" "Perhaps because he was proud to be in possession of such knowledge," replied Mrs. Grafton, rising haughtily, disgust stamped on her face. "T wish you to understand and tell Stanford that ' can not let him play with Jay any more.' "Mama! Mama!" cried Jay Grafton rushing unbidden into the room, and sobbing as he fled to his mother's side. "Don't, Oh! Don't say that mama, Stan's the best one of all to me at school; and his mama helps us play games, and let's us come in and get warm when we're cold and wet, and besides mama, he'd never told me; only the other boys told me such  horrid things that Stanford called me away from them and said he'd tell me the loveliest story about it all. Just like his mama told him about the flowers, and birds, and things, and oh} mama, Stan's crying awful cause I told him what you said about us not being friends any more. And sis, she's been over here all day getting dry cause you wouldn't let her track our floor, and she broke through the ice and got wet." The boy stopped from mere exhaustion, and started to twist his cap. He looked timidly up into his mother's face. She whs looking down at him with a new light in her eyes. She saw for the first time, beneath that tear-stained face, a boy, longing for a mother's henrt, a mother's counsel and a mother's love. She looked up where Mrs. Stanley had been standing, but she was wisely working about the kitchen. The visiting mother sat down and tenderly gathered her boy into her arms; it was a wonderful moment for them both, mother and son, just as she heard a trio of noisy children came rushing in at the back door, and she heard her own little girl' s voice saying, "Please, Mrs. Stanley we've come in to play with you now, it's most awful chilly out there." Mrs. Grafton, with her son's hand in her's, walked towards the door, and with a smile on her face turned to her little daughter and said, ' "T think we have troubled Mrs. Stanley enough for today, you better all come over and play with me." Startled, inquisitive faces turned toward her, and then Jay eagerly dancing before her almost shouted, "Oh! Mama, will you really play with us in the house and let us move the chairs and things." But his little sister's face fell, "Mama doesn't know any games," she said. "But you can teach me," smiled her mother, placing a hand on her golden head. "Come, all of you, and teach me to play with you." The children suddenly roused from their dazed condition ran from the house, leaping and shouting. Mrs. Grafton turned with her hand on the knob, and with eyes full of tears smiled a grateful smile at the mother who came so nearly winning the love, and saving the moral faculties of her own children. Ea Mrs. Stanley knowingly arose, nodded, and smile bac'