[Vol9 | January 1922 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Disarmament Conference Delegations]

Disarmament Conference Delegations At the Disarmament Conference, which met in Washington on November 12, 1921, only four nations appear as vital factors—the United States, Great Britain, France and Japan. Another of the European great powers, Italy, takes an uncertain "me too". Position, willing, hesitatingly, to assent to whatever the others may agree upon. China is an element in the Far East discussion, but further than in a platonic sense cuts little figure. In this situation, the personnel of the delegations from the four principal nations affords a key to the probable results which may follow. Secretary of State Charles E. Hughes together with three other noted Americans represent the United States; /besides these are a number of advisers of no less ability than the chiefs, and equally influential in determining the American policy. Mr. Hughes drew much public praise from his primal action indicating what the United States was willing to do in reducing naval armament, his proposal also affecting Great Britain and Japan. This particular feature was worked out before the meeting of the conference, and is not a one-man idea. Mr. Hughes is a commanding figure in the conference, by reason of the standing of the nation he represents. His influence with the smaller nations will be determined largely by his personality, as will be that of his associates, some of whom may excel him in particular features, as he excels them in others. He is an able lawyer, self-confident and occasionally impetuous, with a thorough understanding of the American view of diplomatic questions. In the event of a dilemma, he can keep his constituency out of difficulty, but in the adjustment of troubles among other factions it may be different. As to the United States, the conference will result in marked industrial benefit, in reducing the enormous expense of a big naval and military establishment. Admiral Kato of the Japanese delegation knows how to keep his lips closed in the presence of foreigners, but consults freely with his associates. The Japanese diplomat never is satisfied with glancing at two sides of a square post from an angle; he looks carefully at all four surfaces, then looks again and again. Years ago Japan was caught in a trap by occidental diplomats, and the Jap feels that then it was their fault; if he is caught again, he understands it will be his fault. Other races may think him inferior, but he does not. It is said the oriental  PAN-AMERICAN UNION BUILDING WHERE COMMITTEE CONFERENCES ARE HELD mind does not operate the same as the occidental mind; and this is especially true as to the Japanese. Where the Jap must yield to other nations, he does so with the utmost complacency, but always with a mental reservation favoring Japan. He scrupulously keeps his word, but the interpretation of that word is subject to differences of opinion. A third of a century study of Japanese character, convinces one that Japan will not be worsted in the diplomatic encounter, and probably will come off victor in convincing the world that she does not want to fight the United States but must have free commercial ingress to China and Siberia, which in the end means Japanese domination—the identical features to which America objects when applied to the Pacific Coast States. Next comes France. Her chief representative, Premier Aristide Briand, is more than a brilliant Frenchman. He is keen, deliberative, and vigorous and decisive in action. When he takes a stand it is difficult to move him. In both the retrospective and prospective view of history and diplomacy, to him France stands foremost. In his mental vision of a scene, if there are boys standing around with cobblestones in their hands, it is to throw at France. Nationally, he is not cosmopolitan. There is only one French-speaking nation, and M. Briand thinks only in French and for France. He knows the history of Europe for the past fifteen centuries, and in that record cannot discover any great European power as the permanent friend of France, hence trusts none of them. His is just the nature that would "throw a monkey wrench into the machinery" of a world  agreement that does not accord with his view of preference to France. Britain's chief representative at the conference opening, Arthur J. Balfour, deserves a large share of credit for the success of the British premier, David Lloyd George, in handling his nation's affairs. Mr. Balfour was the real force in the additional acquirement of territory by Britain through the treaty of Versailles. He has a deep conviction favoring the establishing of the house of Judah in Palestine. While not possessing 'the same youthful physical vivacity that marked his appearance in his late thirties, he is the same clearheaded, courteous, careful-speaking, highly-educated Englishman—the type which insists on giving and receiving fair play. Gentle in manners but resolu'e in deed, none who have direct dealings with him have DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION BUILDING WHERE THE PLENARY SESSIONS OF THE CONFERENCE ARE HELD reason to mistake the meaning of his words or to doubt his sincerity. He does not recognize the superiority of either the Frenchman or the Jap, and sometimes is impatient with that claim by these. Possessing an unusually clear and keen foresight, for thirty years he has talked of and looked for a close brotherly relation between the two great English-speaking nations, and implicitly believes therein. Unlike the Japanese and French representatives, he takes a cosmopolitan view of world affairs; and since Great Britain is made up of many nations and America of many nationalities, he coincides with the American view, and is even quicker than we in putting it into practice.  Utah's position in reducing the armament expense of the United States, and incidentally that of any other nation which follows, cannot be overlooked. The United States Senate ultimately passes upon questions involved in the conference. Senator Reed Smoot, whose personal integrity and financial acumen have brought him to the pinnacle of influence, already has indicated, in his official action, the economy that must be practiced, and therefore has been a potent factor in fixing the American policy of essential limitation of armament. Former Senator George Sutherland's strong influence as one of America's leading constitutional lawyers, and chairman of the advisory committee to the American delegation, is being directed to the same end. A third Utah man, whose national prominence as an international Jawyer brings Utah to the front, is J. Reuben Clark; his ability and store of information as to the Far East problem and limitation of armaments having led to his selection as a special adviser on these and kindred subjects. That the task ahead of the conference is beset with difficulties in accomplishment is no secret to Mr. Clark, who realizes in his important duties that a harmonious association of nations with divergent interests, like a peaceful union of discordant religious sects, requires more than human wisdom for attainment. But even in the present circumstances, Utah rests assured that with the three notable leaders named, her obligations on the great thought now before the nations will not go unfulfilled. Much has been already accomplished while more and equally important results may be looked for in the future as the result of this great ConWie teks an ee a cm MCT PATIO OF PAN-AMERICAN UNION BUILDING  ference. The initial bomb thrown into this Conference was projected in our balliwick by our own administration and bids fair to be the precursor of similar creative displays. The fact that we have four women to speak for us in Washington at this Conference is both significant and auspicious. They are Katherine Philips Edson a representative of suffrage workers on Advisory Committee, who helped win the vote for the women of California and who is a member of the California Industrial Welfare Commission and has been notably successful in arbitrating labor troubles; Mrs. Charles Sumner Bird, a lifelong suffrage worker, chairman of the State Suffrage Association, when Massachusetts ratified the 19th Amendment, now serving as chairman of the League's Disarmament Committee, took with her to Washington resolutions signed by all leading Massachusetts women's organizations, pledging their support in the effort to secure disarmament; Mrs. Thomas G. Winter, universally known as president of the General Federation of Women's Clubs. She has the backing of two million club women, as well as other great women's organizations that are working in co-operation toward disarmament; and Eleanor Franklin Egan, a traveler and writer, who has written more about foreign countries probably than any other American woman. She and her husband edited the Manila Times.