		A MERRY CHRISTMAS.

	The EXPONENT cordially extends to all its
readers, friends and patrons, young and old,
in whatever nook or corner of the broad land,
on this and the other side the Atlantic, in the
islands of the sea, on the Asiatic shore, to one
and all, the old-time greeting, "A merry Christ-
mas" and a happy one. We sometimes wonder
what the world would be like without a holi-
day season. Oh, the tender recollections called
forth as these days make their annual round.
They savor of childhood even in old age; and
they invariably bring their train of pleasure
and of pain. "Pleasure is born of pain," the
poet says, and life's lessons daily assure us all,
that joy and sorrow are twin sisters and walk
hand in hand.
	There certainly should be holidays, if it was
only for the children's sake; they look forward
with such genuine delight and childish expect-
ancy, and the anticipation is full of gladness,
almost surpassing the reality; and we are not
so sure but most older people have an intuitive
relish for the simple pleasures customary on
such occasions. There is much exquisite joy
and satisfaction in bestowing happiness on
those beloved, and there is truly pleasure that
passeth understanding almost, in associating
with dear friends and kindred at these holiday
re-unions. Many tender and precious memo-
ries, which the human heart holds in its sacred
embrace, are reawakened as friends meet and
exchange their kindly greetings; and the songs
and tales of "long ago" rush back again, until
memory's page is vivid with "the light of other
days."
	Many who have little time in the busy tide
of every day life for the cultivation of those
genial attributes of the soul, which are most
productive of true happiness, are thus awak-
ened and brought to a sense of the affection
and duty which they owe to their kindred and
friends, and feel the keenest enjoyment in
mingling in sweet intercourse with them, and
living over again the scenes through which
they have passed while separated from each
other. There is always much that is pleasant
to recount, much to be grateful for, and if there
are some deep griefs and heavy sorrows, there
is also sweetness and tenderness in the sympa-
thy of those who have hearts alive to the woes
of others.
	In the sacred and sweet ministrations of
charity there are various avenues open. There
are many hungry and cold and cheerless ones
in this world—poor, aye, yes, poor in that which
makes the truest riches; and there are tender
deeds and gentle acts, which fall like the dew
of heaven upon the hungry and yearning
hearts of those, who, like the modest poor in
worldly goods, make no complaint the world
may ever hear. God sometimes sends his com-
fort to such in ways which seem mysterious,

[Column 2]
and heart speaks to heart, and joy springs up
spontaneously as hands are touched that thrill
the inmost soul, and poor, weak mortals know
not why; but when the time of universal love
on earth shall come, then they who have en-
dured will endersta[-]d life's mysteries.
		The primal duties shine aloft, like stars,
		The charities that soothe, and heal, and bless,
		Are scattered at the feet of man, like flowers.
	The finest spiritual sense alone can detect
the true interpretation of the wonderful lessons,
which God is teaching in his own way, to those
who in humility and grace desire to compre-
hend His goodness and His love, and walk in
wisdom's ways. "For all her paths are pleas-
antness and all her ways are peace."
	But we will come back to tangible realisms.
Gifts and deeds of love and kindness that are
apparent; those which make the eye sparkle
with keen appreciation and warm the heart,
and those which cheer the body and minister
to its physical needs. When the storm rages
without, or the cold frost is biting—when old
Boreas whistles his shrillest notes, when the
fire crackles on the winter hearth and all is
bright and cheerful within the home of plenty
and good cheer, then forget not, ye favored
ones, those who sit cold and desolate beside the
empty hearth-stone, or wander homeless, house-
less, friendless and neglected—and spare not
your charities, but extend the helping hand—
deal bountifully to the poor of God's mercies to
you, so shall it be measured to you again in
like measure full and running over with bless-
ings. O sit not down in plenty while the poor
are cheerless, but scatter blessings while you
may, so shall your Heavenly Father remember
you when the day of trial comes, as come it
must and will to all. "Such," says the Savior,
"shall be mine when I make up my jewels."
	There is no truer pleasure than that which
follows a generous and noble action.
	Our heart goes out in tender pity deep and
strong to the thousands of friendless women—
wronged, cast out and abandoned—with no
real homes, perchance no shelter, no little chil-
dren, whose soft hands caress them lovingly
not even on this Christ's day—and we pray in
sincerity, God help them, and show them the
better way, and feed them with the bread of
life, and forgive them, for they are bitterly,
foully wronged and sinned against, and man-
made laws give them no sure protection and no
redress, while their pitiless betrayers and ac-
complices in crime walk unscathed and fearless
in the broad light of heaven, and some sit in
high places with crowns of worldly honor, but
God reigns and will avenge the wrongs of wo-
men betrayed and abandoned, on the heads of
those who are guilty of these foul deeds.
	This is a sad theme and s[-]arce befits thoughts
of holidays, but Christ's advent meant "peace
and good will" to all mankind, and forgiveness
to the erring ones who ask the Father, believ-
ing on His name and trusting in His divine
atonement, and doing the works which He did,
that are a pattern for all to follow. Then,
while the Christmas days are passing, and glad
hearts twine the evergreen and holly, while
gifts and pledges of affection pass from hand to
hand, and those who rejoice make merry in the
song and dance and social intercourse, and joy
sits smiling on the lap of plenty, and little
children romp and play and laugh, and older
ones join in the sports and pass away the glad-
some hours, we trust all such will share their
comforts and their luxuries with those whose
lot is lowlier, but who are still God's children,
molded in His image, and whose wants and
needs are just as great though unsatisfied—
whose longings for the infinite are still the
same, though the outward form be clothed in
humblest apparel.
				E. B. Wells


