HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE RELIEF Society of North Jordan (M[-]s.
Eliza Spencer, President) report to us that they
held a meeting Nov. 3d, 1878, in which the sis-
ters freely expressed themselves on the subject
of Plural Marriage, protesting against the
Anti-Polygamy Crusade, endorsing the views
and ideas of those who spoke in the Mass Meet-
ing in Salt Lake City.  The Resolutions adopt-
ed in that meeting were read by the Secretary
of the Society and adopted unanimously.
	MISS M. A. Rockwood of this city, who has
been successful in silk-reeling, is teaching in
that department of silk manufacture.  She
gave us a call recently with two of her pupils,
Miss Tavy Pierce of Brigham City and Miss
Anne Clark of American Fork.  Each of the
girls brought with them specimens of their
work, which were very fine both in quality and
color, some just suitable for weaving, and
several colors of sewing silk ready for use.
Even these small efforts are commendable, and
as it is a trade, or branch of business suitable
for woman's employment, it is hoped many
will take hold of it.  Miss Clark is only twelve
years old, and she has learned rapidly.
	WE ARE indebted to the courtesy of Bro. W.
J. Silver for a specimen of the medals to be
awarded as prizes by the Deseret Agricultural
and Manufacturing Society.  The medal is
about the size of the silver dollar, and has the
symbol of industry (the bee-hive) upon one
side with the inscription "Deseret Agricultural
and Manufacturing Society, organized 1856;"
on the other side is a wreath very exquisitely
executed, and "Awarded to best."  The med-
als are the workmanship of Bro. Silver, an
enterprising and skillful machinist.  The en-
graving is by Mr. John Druce.  The design
and execution are both neat and appropriate.
	THE CITY is donning its holiday attire, the
market places are teeming with varieties of
good things, in the way of fruits, vegetables,
meats, fish, fowls and luxuries; and the mer-
chants pile high and higher their stores of mer-
chandise, and tempt the passerby with taste-
fully decorated windows.  Ornaments and toys
of every conceivable shape and form, from the
smallest trifle to the most elegant and costly
article are staring at one on every side; indeed,
one must walk blindfold not to be conscious
this is Christmas time.  What a contrast to
the Christmas of thirty years ago, when a few
hundred exiles, with their little ones, supped
on scant and homely fare and thanked God
who had brought them where they could en-
joy life, liberty and freedom of conscience.
	PROF. ED. Adolph respectfully announces to
the ladies of Salt Lake City that he is prepared
to teach them the art of Drawing, Cutting and
Fitting Dress Patterns in every style. This
art is made available by scientific study for the
present and future time and is of more value,
it is said, than any made use of by Mantua
Makers, and needs no preliminary study to
learn it.  To draw a correct Dress, Basque,
Polonaise, or coat Pattern, you need only paper,
pencil and a common drawing rule.  The
printed directions explain the drawing,
and the original sheet, which he will draw, has
every line drawn and a written explanation on
each line.  Prof. Adolph is a member of this
Church, and has recently gathered to this
place. He is anxious to get pupils in his busi-
ness in order that he may earn a livelihood.
He has no acquantances to  interest themselves
for him, being a foreigner (by birth Russian)
and a total stranger here.  Several ladies in
Ogden have learned the art of cutting, etc.,


from him, and are greatly pleased with the
success of his theory. His residence is South
Temple St., second house West of "Juvenile
Instructor" Office, at Mrs. Hawkins.


