THE QUESTION.

	The papers of late have been teeming
with doings of the Anti-Mormon Crusade.
Why all this fuss, all this ado, about the
Mormon women? What charitable act of
kindness do these so-called Christian Ladies
of Utah think they are bestowing upon the
wives and daughters of the Latter-day
Saints? Are we serfs in a Republican gov-
ernment, that we cannot have the liberty
of serving God according to the dictates of
our own consciences? Or are we true-born,
loyal American citizens, many of us reared
under the flag of boasted freedom and lib-
erty, whose banner we hail with delight
and respect? If we are, let us have those
rights that we claim, and save yourselves
further trouble concerning our welfare.
	We love our husbands, we love our chil-
dren, we love our homes, and last but not
least we love our God, who has preserved
us when the so-called Christian denomina-
tions drove us from our homes to the far
West. Here the desert has been made to
blossom as the rose, homes have been made
for saint and sinner; and now, woman
seems to antagonize woman—a sad and
strange picture.
	If I understand the character of woman,
I would say all that is pure, virtuous and
ennobling, in its nature are, or should be,
her characteristics. Then why should you
charitable ladies seek to petition oppression
on a law-abiding and God fearing people.
	Is there anything more unholy in celestial
marriage where it is sacredly practised than
there was in the days of former Apostles,
Prophets, &c., believing God to be an un-
changeable being, knowing that He is the
same yesterday, to-day, and forever? I
fail to see the difference. I think it would
be well for all who are ignorant of the
principles of Mormonism to examine with
a pure and contrite spirit before they jump
at too Hasty conclusions.
	As wives of Latter-day Saints we are
satisfied with our position, and think the
Christian ladies of Utah could find a wider
field to labor in if they would look nearer
home and help put down some of the
abominations that are practised, such as
abortion, drunkenness, prostitution, &c.
	Wishing that all who seek the overthrow
of Mormonism will please observe the Mor-
mon Creed—Mind your own business.
