NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE AMERICAN Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation held its Annual Convention in In-
dianapolis, Nov. 13 and 14. We gather a
few important items in reference to the
Convention from our Exchanges. There
were many leading suffragists present. The
Committee on Credentials reported thirteen
States represented. Dr. Mary F. Thomas
of Richmond, Ind., presided. Lucy Stone
read the report of the Executive Commit-
tee. Wm. Loyd Garrison, President of the 
A. W. S. Association, was unable to be
present, but sent a letter “able and elo-
quent,” which was read by Mr. Hinkley of
Rhode Island. Miss Matilda Hindman of
Colorado said if the suffrage workers of the
East would contribute money, speakers and
workers, the next report from the Centen-
nial State would be woman suffrage trium-
phant. The speakers of whom particular
mention was made were J. Ellen Foster of
Iowa, H. B. Blackwell of Boston, Margaret
W. Campbell, Hannah Tracy Cutler, Hon.
George W. Julian and Mary F. Eastman.
	Resolutions were adopted, from which
we extract the following:
	Whereas, Theoretically governments de-
rive their just powers from the consent of 
the governed; and whereas, practically,
women are the greatest sufferers from de-
fective legislation, therefore,
	Resolved, That a government of the peo-
ple, by the people, for the people, must be
a government equally composed of men and
women; and that the co-operation of the 
sexes is alike essential to a happy home, a
refined society, a Christian church and a
Republican State.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	Whereas, The United States courts have
affirmed that “the regulation of suffrage
belongs exclusively to the States,” and
that “women are citizens, and as such may
be made voters by appropriate State legis-
lation.” And whereas a sixteenth amend-
ment to the federal constitution, abolishing
political distinction on account of sex, al-
though just and necessary, can be more
easily obtained when several States have
set the example; therefore,
	Resolved, That we urge every existing
State association to renewed effort upon 
the next and each following State Legisla-
ture, and in every State where no such as-
sociation exists we urge individual effort,
and the immediate formation of a State
society


THAT gallant sailor, the British Admiral
Ramsey, says that on the coast of Africa he
once saw a regiment of rifle-women—and
black as they were, he must say he never
saw a finer regiment. All the officers were
women, and there was not one man in the
whole regiment. They were most courage-
ous, and fought bravely; in fact, a friend
told him that when they went into action
they fought like so many tigresses.
	DON'T refuse your wife a little extra spend-
ing money just now if she should ask it;
you will get it all back again in slippers
and dressing gowns next Christmas.—
Washington Post.


