THOUGHTS ABOUT BOOKS.

	It is a common error to date book mak-
ing and the beginning of literary enlight-
enment from the time of the invention of
printing in the Fifteenth Century. There
are many people, otherwise well informed,
who have an idea that the world is indebted
solely to the printing press for the rich lit-
erary treasures it possesses, and who enter-
tain a vague belief that until its use a dense
cloud of ignorance overhung all the nations
of the earth. A recent writer in one of the
leading English magazines makes the
astonishing statement that the "genius of
Gutenberg and Faust heralded the day,
after a long intellectual night that had its
beginning with creation." How utterly
senseless and foolish such language is, any
schoolboy knows, or ought to know. Print-
ing is merely a change in the manner of
production. Books were made and read
thousands of years before the day of Guten-
berg, and multitudes of authors have flour-
ished and been well known of the people
in all the centuries since the first historical
record was written.
	There is evidence that a high state of
civilization existed in Assyria three thous-
and years ago, and that literature flourished
in the ancient cities of Nineveh and Baby-
lon as extensively and successfully as it
does among us to day. The discovery a
few years ago of the library of Assurbanipal,
King of Assyria 700 B. C., gives us a fair
idea of the character of the books of that
time. They consisted of tablets of clay,
varying in size from an inch to nine inches
long, covered with characters, in some
cases so minute that they could only be read
by the aid of the microscope. After years
of patient study the key to this last method
of writing was discovered, and the contents
of these innumerable and singular books
were laid open to the world. They consist-
ed of historical records, chronological, and
astronomical tablets, religious treaties,
grammars of various languages, works upon
science, art, social regulations and customs,
the laws and general literature. These
inscriptions were stamped from engraved
blocks, a fact which shows that large num-
bers of copies must have been made, and
must have been extensively manufactured
and commonly read by the people of that
time.
	Greek literature, says a modern writer,
began in a period of indefinite antiquity[-]
as long ago as 1000, B. C. the art of poetic-
al composition existed in the highest per-
fection. The admirable structure and the
wonderful language of the Homeric poems
imply a long period of antecendent culture.
Books of that day were written upon papy-
rus, and were copied by professional scribes.
The inner bark of trees was also used,
and sometimes the leaves of the palm
Vellum, leather and parchment, differently


prepared skins, were used later. The Chi-
nese have a literature dating back more
than 3,500 years. The "Book of Changes,"
one of the revered Chinese classics, made
its appearance 1150 B. C. The books of
this nation were made for many centuries
of bamboo tablets. About 300 B. C. the
present style of writing with a brush was
introduced, silk having taken the place of
the tablets. Two thousand years ago the
imperial library of China consisted of 3,123
volumes of classics, 2,705 on philosophy,
1,318 of poetry, 790 on military affairs, 2,528
on mathematics, and 868 on medicine.
Printing in China was invented near the
close of the Sixth Century, nearly 900 years
before it become known in Europe. In
ancient Rome the literary needs of the peo-
ple were abundantly supplied by the pen.
Professional scribes were numerous, and
papyrus paper was cheap. Books were
made faster than they could be sold, to the
great disgust of some of the noble Roman
authors. The scribes whose manual labour
produced these books were educated slaves
and so efficient in their craft that type and
presses could hardly have made books more
common. Long before the Christian era
the poet Horace complained because his
books were in the hands of everybody.
	The form of ancient books differed with
the materials from which they were com-
posed. Tablets and leaves of metal and
lead were of the same square form as our
books to-day; when flexible materials like
papyrus and parchment came into use, it
was found convenient to make them in the
form of rolls. The internal arrangement
of books has undergone many modifications
since the earliest times. At first there was
no division of words, all the letters in the
line running together. Gradually the sep-
aration took place, and by degrees, in the
course of time, a work was broken up into
sentences and paragraphs, and punctuated.
	The immense libraries formed in ancient
times are proofs of the abundance of books
and the general condition of literature in
the various countries of Asia and Europe.
The famous Alexandrian library, founded
nearly 300 B.C., contained 700,000 vol-
umes. The library of the king of Perga-
mus, 200,000, and there were numerous
libraries, public and private in Rome,
Athens, Samos, and other cities in Greece,
Egypt, Spaiu and Italy, numbering from
10,000 to 50,000 volumes. The library
founded by Constantine at Constantinople
contained 120,000 volumes, and that at
Cairo is said by Arab writers to have held
1,600,000 volumes. There were other great
libraries in Bagdad, Tripoli and Fex. Un-
der the Moors, Spain possessed 60 public
libraries, the principal one, that at Cordova,
containing 406,000 volumes. Most of these
collections were destroyed in the wars,
which devastated the various countries and
cities where they existed, the remnants
which escaped owing their preservation to
being concealed in convents and monaster-
ies.—Book Bulletin.


