	—Ex. 	JAMES T. FIELDS.


THE ELEVENTH Annual Washington
Convention of The National Woman Suf-
frage Association will be held in Lincoln
Hall, 9 and D. Streets, Washington, D. C.,
January 9 and 10, 1879. The Riggs[-] House,
corner 15th and G. Streets, will be the
head-quarters of the delegates, where all
may first report. It is hoped and expected
that private entertainment will be secured,
and delegates entertained free of charge.
The Association invite women from all
parts of the country. They ask that those
who think they will be at the Convention
to report as soon as possible to the Corres-
ponding Secretary, Matilda Joslyn Gage,
Fayetteville, New York, who has such
names in charge. Contributions to the
Convention are to be forwarded to Ellen
Clarke Sargent, Treasurer, 1733 De Sales
St., Washington. Letters to the Conven-
tion should be addressed to the Cor. Sec.,
care of Ellen H. Sheldon, No. 7 Grant place,
Washington. Delegates are requested to
meet for consultation at the house of Belva
A. Lockwood, woman lawyer, 619 F. Street,
at 7 o'clock, Tuesday evening, Jan. 7, 1879.


SANTA CLAUS IN NORWAY.—The presen-
tation of Christmas gifts in Norway is the
chief diversion of the season, and in this
many strange customs are observed. Thus,
in some districts the gift is hid in a truss
of hay or straw, or sometimes it is placed in
a bag of chaff. The donater then watches
his opportunity, and slyly fixes the truss of
hay above the door of his friend's room.
When the latter enters, the hay falls on
him, to the great enjoyment of the kindly
conspirators, who are probably watching
close at hand. Then ensues an eager and
exciting search. The truss is ripped open,
hands thrust in and out through the straw
or hay till the gift is found, at which mo-
ment the donaters generally disclose their
presence by shouts of delight, and the ex-


pressions of good wishes for the season and
the year to come. The bag of chaff is also
a source of endless and innocent merriment.
In its fall from the top of the door, it covers
the receiver with a cloud of dust, and small
particles that adhere to his beard enter the
fur of his coat,and make him feel as uncom-
fortable and look as ridiculous as can well be
desired by the most ardent prompters of
practical jokes. But as he opens his eyes,
he at once notices lying in the mass around
him a welcome present which has been se-
creted in the chaff. It may well be im-
agined with what delight children join in
this rough play, and how it materially as-
sists to pass the long winter season.


