A LEAF FROM AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

	It was during the time we lived at the 
Brick Store that Joseph received the reve-
lation pertaining to Celestial Marriage; also
concerning the ordinances of the House of
the Lord. He had been strictly charged
by the angel who committed these precious
things into his keeping that he should only
reveal them to such persons as were pure,
full of integrity to the truth, and worthy
to be entrusted with divine messages; that
to spread them abroad would only be like
casting pearls before swine, and that the
most profound secresy must be maintained,
until the Lord saw fit to make it known
p[-]blicly through His servants. Joseph had
the most implicit confidence in my hus-
band's uprightness and integrity of charac-
ter; he knew him capable of keeping a se-
cret, and was not afraid to confide in him,
as he had been a Free Mason for many
years. He therefore confided to him, and a 
few others, the principles set forth in that
revelation, and also gave him the privilege
to read it and to make a copy of it, know-

[Column 2]
ing it would be perfectly safe with him. It
was this veritable copy, which was pre-
served, in the providence of God, that has
since been published to the world; for
Emma (Joseph's wife) afterwards becoming
indignant, burned the original, thinking
she had destroyed the only written docu-
ment upon the subject in existence. My
husband revealed these things to me; we
had always been united, and had the ut-
most faith and confidence in each other.
We pondered upon them continually, and
our prayers were unceasing that the Lord
would grant us some special manifestation
concerning this new and strange doctrine.
The Lord was very merciful to us; He re-
vealed unto us His power and glory. We
were seemingly wrapt in a heavenly vision,
a halo of light encircled us, and we were
convinced in our own minds that God heard
and approved our prayers and intercedings
before Him. Our hearts were comforted,
and our faith made so perfect that we were
willing to give our eldest daughter, then
only seventeen years of age, to Joseph, in
the holy order of plural marriage. She had
been raised in the strictest manner as re-
garded propriety, virtue and chastity; she
was as pure in thought, in feeling and in
impulse as it was possible for a young girl
to be. Yet, laying aside all our traditions
aud former notions in regard to marriage,
we gave her with our mutual consent. She
was the first woman ever given in plural
marriage by or with the consent of both 
parents. Of course these things had to be
kept an inviolate secret; as some were
false to their vows and pledges, persecution
arose, and caused grievous sorrow to those
who had obeyed, in all purity and sincerity,
the requirements of the celestial order of
marriage.
	The Lord commanded his servants; they
themselves did not comprehend what the
ultimate course of action would be, but
were waiting further developments from
heaven. Meantime the ordinances of the
house of the Lord were given, to bless and
strengthen us in our future endeavors to
promulgate the principles of divine light
and intelligence; but coming in contact
with all pre-conceived notions and princi-
ples heretofore taught as the articles of re-
ligious faith, it was not strange that many
could not receive it; others doubted, and
only a few remained firm and immovable.
Among that number were my husband and
myself; yet although my husband believed
and was firm in teaching this Celestial order
of Marriage, he was slow in practice. Jo-
seph repeatedly told him to take a wife, or
wives, but he wished to be so extremely
cautious not to do what would probably have
to be undone, that in Joseph's day he never
took a wife. When he did do so, he did it
to fulfill a duty due to the principles of di-
vine revelation as he understood his duty,
and believing sincerely that every man
should prove his faith by his works; but
he afterwards took several wives, and with 
one or two exceptions, they came into the
same house with me, and my children;
therefore, I believe I am safe in saying that
I am intimately acquainted with the prac-
tical part of polygamy.
		(To be continued.)


