THOUGHTS.

	When reading the account of the Mass
Meeting of two hundred Gentile ladies
of Salt Lake City, with a view to put down
polygamy, I involuntarily asked myself the
questions—Why this new crusade?  Why
this new phase of persecution?  Why this
new departure from old established customs
and habits (for it has been the habit for men
to lead in persecution)?  Is it because the
Evil One has tried so many plans, and all
have failed to move the Saints in the least?
or is it because he thinks women are weak
and he can make an easy tool of them?
	While I was pondering these things in
my heart, these words of Scripture came
forcibly to my mind.  "They are left to be-
lieve a lie, that they all may be damned
who obey not the truth, and take pleasure
in unrighteousness."  Could those women
see what they are doing and the conse-
quences if their plans were carried out, I
think most of them would stop and ask
themselves if it would pay; I think they
would take time to reflect before proceed-
ing further.
	I was much pleased with the remarks of
our sisters in their mass meeting, and cor-
dially endorse the sentiments expressed by
them, and I believe most of the sisters
throughout this Territory would do the
same. I feel thankful that I have lived to
see the day when so many thousands are
ready to rise up and testify boldly to the
truth.
	I came into the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in an early day, when our
numbers could not be counted by hundreds,
and I did not then expect I should ever see
such an array of witnesses for the truth. I
thank the Lord that he has spared my life
to see the present time, and I feel truly
thankful that our sisters have taken such a
bold stand for truth and righteousness.  We
know we are right when we resist such en-
croachments upon our civil rights—rights
that are guaranteed unto us by the grand
and noble Constitution framed by our fore-
fathers.  I feel sure this crusade will come
to naught.  God is at the helm of this king-
dom; He watches over His people, and He
has promised that "no weapon formed
against them shall prosper."  Is not that a
blessed promise?  Sisters, let us be faithful,
to our God; let us always be found using
our influence for good; seek at all times to
be guided by the Spirit of the living God,
and then we need not fear what our ene-
mies can do.
	JOANNA C. TEEPLES
	Holden, Millard Co., Dec. 3, 1878.


[Column 1]

