			POLYGAMY.

	I have been blessed to have the Spirit of
the Lord to guide my thoughts from my
childhood. It was at that early period of
my life I became a believer in polygamy.
When about eight years old my father gave
me a Bible, and my mother told me to read
it through, and believe it. I began to read,
and my attention was drawn to the fact that
men in those days had more wives than
one, and that God was not displeased with
it. I wondered, and puzzled my childish
brain for the reason that men should have
but one wife in the present age of the
world. I dared not ask any one, for fear
that I would get laughed at, but came to
the conclusion that as Abraham, Jacob,
David, Solomon, and others had more wives
than one, and that they were good men and
the Lord loved them; it was the natural
order. But why it was changed was an
unsolved problem, to be solved at some fu-
ture day by the truth being revealed.
	I built many an air castle with a dear
playmate, gathering in fancy all the favor-
ite girls, and saying that we would all have
one husband and live together. Alas! for
air castles! The last I heard of Mary she
was enjoying single blessedness, and won-
dering how I could believe in plurality of
wives.
	I believe that children think more of
getting married than most people surmise,
and that the reason we so seldom hear them
speak of it is that they are afraid of a
laugh and rebuke.
	When I was twelve years old the im-
pression was made upon my mind that in a
few years I would find out that the ancient
order of marriage would be established
again. It always seemed right to me,

[Column 2]
while, as I grew up, and read of the evil
practices existing, my spirit abhorred evil
and was disgusted with vice.
	There is no comparison between the
heavenly principle of Celestial Marriage,
that leads through the gates of the city of
the New Jerusalem, and the infamous prac-
tices of the degraded, that lead to death
and destruction. One is exalting, the other
debasing. Polygamy schools a person (if
rightly lived), until jealousy and envy are
swept away from the heart, and a feeling
of peace and love dwells therein.
	When eighteen, the revelation on Celes-
tial Marriage had just been published. I
read it, and my mind being already pre-
pared, I readily believed it; but the princi-
ple of sealing was new, and troubled me.
I clearly saw that if I did not join the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
I could not be united with my husband
through eternity, as I had fondly hoped. I
had previously thought our own vows for
eternity, after marriage, would be binding.
I saw that unless I believed the Gospel,
my hopes were vain. I had wished to
know what Mormonism was from curiosity,
but this, the first principle I received, set
me to inquiring earnestly how to go to
work to join the Church. I saw that this
Gospel was true, that it was from God, and
I felt not to delay the day when I should
come into the Church. I was told baptism
was the way. My husband had been in-
vestigating Mormonism, and believed it,
and we were baptized, and my joy was full.
I believed then, as I know now, that this
revelation on Celestial Mariage was from
the Lord, and I have been blessed in be-
lieving it.
	The outsiders say our marriages are not
marriages; but it is exactly the contrary.
Their marriages are only binding until
death, ours reach into eternity. Ours are
the only valid ones, solemnized by the au-
thority of the priesthood—our children the
legitimate children of the new and ever-
lasting covenant.
	The great cause of trouble in plurality
is the selfishness of women. It is natural
not to like to see another loved by the ob-
ject of our devotion. We are selfish and
narrow-minded in this, and think of our-
selves alone, but if we open our hearts to
the Spirit of God we will overcome this
spirit of evil, and if true love exists in our
hearts for our husbands the burden will be
easy, and we shall be desirous that our
husbands should obey this command of God,
and reap a rich reward.
	Jealousy springs from a love of our own
dear selves, and we look upon others as in-
truders, and by indulging in this miserable
feeling repel the love which we might en-
joy, and then imagine much that does not
exist, and make ourselves unhappy. Where
jealousy creeps in between a husband and
wife the consequences are always unhappi-
ness, and frequently blame is attached to
innocent ones when it is our own fault, by
giving way to the hideous spirit of jealousy,
that makes us unlovely and unlovable.
Many a woman pines with grief at the ap-
parent coldness of her husband, when the
beam is in her own eye and she cannot
clearly see. The coldness is in her manner
and she can discern nothing but faults in
her husband. Jealousy makes women act
unwisely; it takes away the noblest facul-
ties of the mind and plants unpleasant feel-
ings, prompted by the Evil One, to bring
destruction upon her. Prayer will over-
come it, for the Lord will not suffer that
one who prays earnestly for its banishment
shall suffer long the excruciating torment
of jealousy.

[Column 3]
	I bear my testimony that polygamy is
true—that this principle was revealed from
the heavens to bless both men and women,
and to crown them with glory. Persecutors
may persecute, laws may be made, but they
will not prevail, for they are antagonistic
to the laws of God, and we will obey the
divine command of heaven revealed by
Celestial Marriage, fearless of consequences.
Right is on our side, and might cannot
overcome it. Boldly, firmly let us obey
this righteous law, and let our enemies
howl; but the day will come, that if they
do not repent it will be worse than monoga-
my with men. As they have railed against
plurality and persecuted the Saints of the
Most High God for believing in this holy
order, they will have no wife to keep them
company in the dark region of despair.
There they will see their error, but cannot
rectify it, the time will be past.
	Be not afraid to enter into plural mar-
riage, for the Lord will provide for those
who do His will and keep His command-
ments. It is honorable in all, and brings
the blessings of the Father to His obedient
ones.			EMILY B. SPENCER.
	St. George, Nov. 10, 1878.


