MASS MEETING.

Of the Ladies of Utah County, held in the
	Meeting House, Provo City, Dec. 7th, 1878.

	Mrs. Mary John called the attention of the
audience. On motion, Mrs. Margaret T. Smoot
was chosen president, and Mrs. Caroline Dan-
iels and Lucy W. Kimball secretaries,
	After singing, prayer was offered by Mrs. J.
O. Duke.
	Mrs. Margaret T. Smoot explained the ob-
ject of the meeting—to declare our sentiments
in regard to our holy religion, and to protest
against the "anti-polygamy petition."
	Mrs. Lucy W. Kimball then read the peti-
tion referred to.
	On motion of Mrs. H. A. Beebe, a committee
of seven ladies were appointed to draft resolu-
tions for the adoption of the meeting, namely:
Mrs. H. A. Beebe, Amanda McEwan, Jane
Jones, Annie K. Smoot, Sarah A. Scott, R. A.
Holden and Miss Tennie Smoot.
	After the withdrawal of the committee, Mrs.
M. T. Smoot said it is a worthy cause that
calls us together: we have received the princi-
ple of plural marriage, and incorporated it in
our religion and lives as a revelation from God
We have many things to encounter. Ladies
from the east have come here and have given
us the credit of busy, honest and frugal women.
Why cannot our sex allow us the privilege of
the husbands of our choice? No one is con-
strained from this privilege among us; we live
in unity with our husbands and one another.
We are not all saints, but we vary no more
than monogamic wives. We can trust our
husbands and know they act upon the com-
mands of God. We should be let alone. We,
as wives of latter-day saints should speak our
minds. We want no legislation in our behalf,
but wish it known by all, that there is one
above who revealed this law for our observ-
ance and he will legislate for us. 
	The committee on resolutions returning,
their report was read, also the resolutions
which were in substance as adopted by the
Sisters of Salt Lake City, with the addition of
the following:
	Resolved, That we the women of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, of Utah
County, in mass meeting assembled, fully en-
dorse the preamble and resolutions passed by
the women of latter-day saints in mass meet-
ing assembled in Salt Lake City, Nov. 16th,
1878.
	Mrs. Mary John read an address in support
of the principle of plural marriage and of non-
interference by parties not affected by its prac-
tice.
	Mrs. Margaret A. Cluff said: We have assem-
bled as women of this county, to protest against
the infringement of our religious liberties,
and protest against any movement on the part
of Congress to injure our franchise or that of
our husbands. Many years ago, our people fled
from their homes, traveling through a desert.
This we preferred to yielding the religious con-
victions of our souls. God was with us and
preserved his work. Shall we yield our faith
in Him through whose help we have received
our now peaceful homes? No, never. We
have confidence that through the help of God
this attack like others will be productive of
good. They call that which is pure a crime.
Think of it sisters! The majority of mankind
may not feel polygamy consistent with their

[Column 2]

feelings, but it will be found that those most
opposed to it are impure. In justice to all we
hold dear, let us hold firmly to that we have
espoused.
	Mrs. Hannah Booth read an address in
which, in sound logical argument, she held to
the truth of the position in favor of plural
marriage, and non-interference; also Mrs.
Amanda McEwan read her views on the sub-
ject endorsing the resolutions of the meeting.
Mrs. H. A. Beebe could not refrain from enter-
ing her protest against the anti polygamy peti-
tion. Knew that the religion of the saints was
true and from God, she had been absent from
the Church some 30 years, and was knowing to
the evil practices of the world; knew full well
what was meant when she heard the women
of the world speak of the inconvenience of
children. The Gentile ladies of Salt Lake and
elsewhere could plainly see as they thought the
mote of polygamy in Utah, but failed to see
the beam of infanticide of such magnitude in
the east.
	Mrs. Rula Holden revived the memories of
those who first inaugurated tae principle of
celestial marriage, facing the world in its super-
stition and darkness. She was the daughter of
an American citizen who had fonght in the
revolutionary wars, and would not submit to be
disfranchised of her rights, religious or politi-
cal, without raising a voice against it.
	Mrs. Marilla Daniels read an address follow-
ed by the reading of the sentiments of Mrs.
Matilda E. Loveless.
	Mrs. Zina Young Williams was introduced
as the daughter of a polygamist and the widow
of a polygamist, and said after such an introduc-
tion I would be a feeble vessel if I did not bear
witness to the truth of the principle of our re-
ligion assailed by our enemies. That I am the
daughter of a polygamist, and entered into that
holy order of celestial marriage as a wife, is
true; and I glory therein. If all the ladies of
the United States stood before me I would still
say so. I pity those who are the tools of the
adversary of mankind. But we cannot tamely
submit to be trodden upon in our rights, and
we will not, but will protest against it. The
day will come when those who now oppose us,
will come bending for our aid, and we will ex-
tend it to them. This feeble crusade is a sec-
ondary consideration to the need of us watch-
ing our own lives and actions. The principle
the world so much condemns is one that is ele-
vating to our sex, making better women out of
good, and women, of those who would be but
babies all the days of their lives without its les-
son. We will bear our offspring in purity,
and fill these vales with God's children. May
we prove to ourselves and to the world that our
desire is for the elevation of our sex.
	Mrs. L. W. Kimball said: I am the grand-
daughter of a man who fought and was wounded
for the liberty of our country, and when I re-
member his bent form and stories of victory, I
cannot but claim my rights as an American
citizen, and as one of the first to enter the
order of plural marriage, having done so by
the command of High Heaven. The ladies of
the East would not persecute us if they really
knew us. We have become inured to persecu-
tion, but when our sex rise up against us, I
feel grieved indeed. God, in whom we trust,
will defend us if we live pure lives before
Him. My father was wounded at the Huans'
Hill massacre. I leave you to picture the
scene as he presented himself at our door with
his wounds. My husband was martyred—cut
down in his early manhood. Can I forget this
and overcome my feelings? Talk of loyalty
and nobility. Look at the wives before me,
who have stepped forward and said, "husbands

[Column 3]

do your duty in obeying this revelation of plu-
ral marriage and I will sustain you in doing
so." May God bless and help us in the dis-
charge of the duties we owe ourselves and
each other.
	Miss Caddie Daniels read a poem written for
the occasion by Mrs. Caroline Daniels.
	Miss Tennie Smoot said, I am proud to ac-
knowledge my parentage as the daughter of
a fourth wife. My father is a man whom I
revere and love. We have rights that the
country must respect. The anti-polygamists
would deny us all claims to them. They view
it that polygamy is not a portion of our relig-
ion, but they should know full well that it is
an essential part thereof. It would be far bet-
ter for the anti-polygamists, instead of coming
here to oppose our religion, to stay at home and
watch their own husbands, lest perchance they
should not keep to the path of virtue. 
	Mrs. Margaret N. Doosenberry said, the
former speaker is my sister. I love her, al-
though she is not my mother's child; but she
is the child of my father, and I love her with
all the sisterly regard and affection that I have
for any and all of the balance of my sisters and
brothers. I protest against any interfence in
our family ties, they are endeared to us and I
claim they are pure, and protest against the
petition of the anti-polygamists.
	Many other ladies raised their voices on the
occasion, protesting against the movement of
the anti-polygamists which threatened the
rights which they held dearer than life itself.
	The report of the committee was then pre-
sented and the resolutions adopted by the unan-
imous vote of the ladies assembled.
	After singing, the benediction was pro-
nounced by the wife of Bishop John Brown,
and the meeting adjourned sine die,	A. J.


