RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL MEETING.

	The Annual meeting of the Relief Soci-
ety of Spanish Fork was postponed from
July 2d to Oct. 17, in consequence of sick-
ness in the family of our beloved President,
Sister Mary Ferguson.
	Sisters Zina D. and Martha B. Young and
Emmeline B. Wells were present by invi-
tation; the meeting house was tastefully
decorated for the occasion with specimens
of ladies' work, both useful and ornamental.
After opening remarks by the President
the Annual Report was read, which showed
a total of receipts by donations and other-
wise for the past year amounting to $271 37;
disbursements, $334. 03. The Society has
210 bushels of wheat stored in a good sub-
stantial bin; a brick building is in course
of erection, to be used for a meeting house;
233 members are enrolled. A feeling of

[Column 2]

union exists, which indicates a healthy and
prosperous condition. After the Financial
report was read and accepted, the President
stated that the sisters often met and worked,
and thus increased the value of material
donated; hence the difference between the
receipts and disbursements.
	Sister Z. D. Young was much pleased
with the report; it brought to her mind
the first Society that was organized. Our
object should be to save souls; we are a
practical people. Urged mothers to find
suitable employment for their girls, and be
sure to keep them from Salt Lake City,
where there are many temptations for the
young. Advised the girls to study the
harmony of colors, and dress in a suitable
manner. Also spoke of the influence
mothers exert over the minds of their chil-
dren. Gave much valuable instruction and
many useful suggestions, especially in re-
gard to the silk-industry; was pleased to
see so many mulberry trees in Spanish
Fork.
	Sister M. B. Young felt that there were
good sisters here, and advised them to at-
tend to their prayers three times a day.
Believed many present would live to see
the Savior come. Advised the sisters to
store up grain, raise silk, &c. Spoke also
upon the County organization, and upon
many other principles pertaining to our
salvation, and concluded by blessing the
sisters.
	Sister E. B. Wells was suffering from a
severe cold, but was much pleased with her
first visit to Spanish Fork; said she had
many dear friends here. Said there is a 
great field of labor and honor for the women
of Zion, but we must prepare ourselves for
it; it will not come to us, we must develop
our talents, use our capabilities, and learn
the lessons of life. Some have thought
the women of Utah will become extremists
in politics and neglect home and its duties,
but she felt there was no danger of that
while we had the Spirit of God and the
Holy Priesthood for a balance. The women
of the world are watching to see what we
will do with the suffrage—how it will bene-
fit woman as a class. Let us use it wisely,
and seek to understand this government,
and make good use of all our opportunities.
Mothers should be awake to the necessity
of training their children, and teach them
the principles of the Gospel and how to ap-
ply them in their lives.
	Closing remarks were made by President
Mary Ferguson, who announced a meeting
in the evening.
	Evening meting.—Opening remarks
were made by Pres. Ferguson, who said
the object of the meeting was to organize
a Primary Society, to be composed of chil-
dren; she would leave the organization
with Sister Z. D. Young.
	Sister Young then rose and gave much
valuable counsel and instruction to the
young, and said the success of the Primary
Association depended upon the mothers.
A vote was then called to know if the
mothers wished such an organization. The
vote was unanimous. An organization was
then effected, with the following officers:
	Mary Ann McClean, President,
	Agnes Lewis,		Counselors,
	Almira Stoker,
	Emily Snell (11 years old), Secretary,
	Miss Hannah (11 years old), Ass't Sec'y. 
	The officers were then set apart by Bish-
op Snell and Counselors, after which Bishop
Snell made some very appropriate remarks.
	Sister M. B. Young then addressed the
children.

[Column 3]

	The meetings were largely attended by
both sexes, and all felt edified and grateful
to our sisters who had come to visit us, for
their labor of love; and we pray that the
blessing of God may ever attend them in
their endeavors to help in the establishment
of the kingdom of God on the earth.
	At the present date the Primary Asso-
ciation numbers 225 members, and is creat-
ing much interest under the able manage-
ment of its President. The young secreta-
ries are doing their part well. 
	HANNAH CORNABY, Sec'y.
Spanish Fork, Nov. 23, 1878.


