[WomansExponent | Vol16 | 1887 | November | Issue: 11 | Title: P. A. JUAB STAKE. | Author: the children, "Don't kill the birds." Prayer]

P. A. JUAB STAKE.

	The conference of the Primary Associations
of Juab Stake was held in the meeting house
at Nephi, Sept. 24th, 1887, at 10 a.m., Mrs. M. 
A. Cazier presiding, and Coun. Caroline Bigler
present. On the stand were Sisters Mary
Pitchforth, E. B. Wells, E. S. Taylor and
several others; also Patriarch J. G. Bigler and 
other brethren. Meeting opened with singing
by the children, "Don't kill the birds." Prayer
was offered by Patriarch Bigler, then the
children sung, "Joseph Smith's First Prayer."
	A few opening remarks were made by the
President, and the minutes of the previous
conference were read and approved. Reports
from the several Primaries in the Stake were
also read, and the President announced the 
programme for the occasion: Manuscript
paper from the South Ward Nephi, entitled,
"The Busy Bee," Vol. 1, No. 4; Motto, "Obe-
dience," was read by Miss Stella Neff, Editress;
Manuscript paper from the North Ward Nephi,
"The Primary Journal," Vol. 1. No. 4, Motto,
"Chastity and Virtue," by Miss Rosa Bailey,
Editress. The programme was carried out,
consisting of songs, recitations and essays, the
children performing their parts very creditably,
and showing that there was excellent talent to
be developed among the little people; the sing-


[column 1]
ing, especially, was very fine, and it was very
gratifying to observe the great pains taken by
the officers of the Associations in the training
of these little ones in the paths of reghteousness.
The officers of the P. A. of the Stake were
sustained by the vote of the conference as
they stood, and also those of the several Prim-
aries in the wards, except in the South Ward
of Nephi, Sister Maggie Jenkins having re-
signed; her resignation was accepted, and a
vote of thanks tendered her for her faithful
services. Sister Jane Booth was nominated
and sustained as President in place of Sister
M. Jenkins, resigned, with Ann Jared and
Stella Neff as Counselors.
The conference was adjourned for three
months. Singing, “Open the door for the
children.” Benediction by Elder H. McCune.

