[Vol13 | May 1926 | Sequence: 15b | Category: Article | Title: Garden Flowers for Decoration Day]

Garden Flowers for Decoration Day
By Philena Fletcher Homer, State Conservation Chairman Of Utah Federation of Women's Clubs
A flower for memory on the loved ones grave, a mass of bloom covering the bare earth, the fragrance of spring carrying the substance of our remembrance to spirits in heaven, only by the use of flowers can we carry out the real spirit of Decoration Day.
Just so far as this floral offering comes from us, just so much of ourselves as we put into it, so much we give to the memory of the departed.
As the day for decorating the graves draws near we usually feel a keen sense of the depth and beauty of this rite, and a desire to secure as abundant a tribute as possible, but where can we secure them? Our own garden is sadly lacking in flowers for this season, those from our neighbors already promised. Then it is that we turn to the hillsides. The children are sent out to bring in anything that they can find. Handful after handful are torn up until the little band are laden with all that they can carry and then they struggle home carrying the flowers in their warm hands, until by the time they arrive the flowers are wilted beyond freshening.
The wild flowers are so frail, so unsuitable for cut flowers that there are only a few varieties which will stay fresh even if they are kept in water all of the time, and the great majority of those picked in this manner are a total waste and are thrown away.
If this indiscriminate picking could be carried on under the supervision of some one who knew and loved flowers, who knew what varieties to pick and which to leave, who would not pull up by the roots the last Indian Paint-brush for rods and rods, who would not take the last bloom for seeding of some delicate flower, which left to itself, would flourish in the shade of the sagebrush and make the bare hillside a thing of beauty and surprise for those who walked thereon, it would not be a matter for serious concern.
With the increase of population most of our favorite wild flowers are disappearing. It is only a question of a very short time before the loveliest of them will be found only in inaccessible places.
Our home gardens should furnish us with the flowers for Decoration Day. Every garden should include some of the lovely varieties which come into bloom at this time and which are so much more suitable for the purpose than their fragile wild sisters.
Peonies, snowballs, and the wonderful varieties of iris are in bloom at this time and they are so hardy, so easy to raise once a start has been secured that there is no excuse for our yards to be without them.