[Vol27 | May 1940 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Handwork with Sales Appeal]

HANDWORK WITH SALES APPEAL
(A summary of comments which accompanied demonstration)
Lucile Wallace Wolf
Manager, Mormon Handicraft Shop

FIRST, I want to say that the Handicraft Shop will no longer handle foods for sale because of a law requiring physical and blood tests for all who prepare food for sale.

There are three things that have been very much more saleable than all other entries at the Shop. One of the most saleable items has been hand-hammered, hand-etched copper. Utah has the greatest open-cut copper mine in the world, located in Bingham. These copper articles have sales appeal and local interest; they are reasonable in price and easy to carry.

The second item that sells most readily is aprons. Some aprons have sales appeal and other aprons do not. Get the very best material you can and use good judgment in the color combinations. There is never a question of price with respect to exquisite aprons of organdy. We cannot supply the demand for a little zig-zag apron, which requires one hour to cut, ready for sewing. It is the material, style, and good color combinations that make it stunning. Other types of aprons which sell well are the exquisite white, blue, and pink pinafore, the peasant apron, and the dog-house apron, made for a man or boy in the family.

The third largest seller is a pioneer doll. You will be interested to know that these pioneer dolls are not for sale anywhere else in the world, that doll collectors all over the United States are clamoring for them, and that up to March 21 we had handled 889 of them. These dolls are made by a woman who not only designs and makes the costumes, but the bodies as well. She makes several different types of dolls, including a western cowboy.

A mother and two sons thought of making little dogs of wool, and we have sold between 3,000 and 4,000 of them.

The important things to remember when making and entering articles in the Shop are good material, good workmanship, right price, neatness, cleanliness, and good appearance. Things exquisitely done are always saleable if the material is good; do not do exquisite work on ordinary materials. Do not send soiled articles; if they have to be laundered, launder them, as we haven't the facilities for this. Articles which come in wrapped in cellophane are amply protected. Consult us often and come and see us whenever you are in Salt Lake, because it is your Shop.