[Vol27 | May 1940 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Music Leadership]

MUSIC LEADERSHIP
Alexander Schreiner, Tabernacle Organist

MUSIC is one of the most powerful allies of the Church. Upon those who direct music in the Church, therefore, rests a considerable responsibility, the most important part of which is to offer music that is fitting to the occasion. Any service conducted on the Sabbath day requires sacred music; this should be observed invariably. There is ample time and opportunity during the week for secular music, so let us be happy in singing sacred music to praise God on His day. When individual musicians are invited to participate in Sunday services, the invitation should specifically indicate that something sacred is desired. If they have no sacred numbers to offer, they may always use something out of the hymn book.

There are two important kinds of sacred music—congregational music and choir music. Choir music is prepared music. The members of choirs are more or less trained. They have a leader who directs them, as for a concert. Emphasis is put on all the minute technical details, such as the observance of holds, rests, climaxes, and retards. A choir strives for musical perfection.

On the other hand, congregational singing is quite another matter. It is a mode of worship. Here we should not strive for musical perfection, because it is the text rather than the music that is important. The words are sermons in miniature. They present our doctrine in poetry. Their contemplation stirs the heart to faithfulness. The music is secondary; it is only an accompaniment to the words, and musical details may be disregarded.

The dictatorial technic of choir-directing has no place in the directing of congregational singing. To a degree, the congregation should be its own director, so that it may be free to absorb the meaning of the words. Worshipers do not come to church to prepare for a concert; they are not trained singers; they may not be eager to sing in parts; they are not interested in musical details; they have come to worship. They should not be hurried or worried by the director but should be left free to express themselves in their own way.

Tempos should always be comfortable. The director may assist the organist in setting the tempo when the introduction is played, but after the congregation starts to sing, never try to increase the speed. Really, the director should follow the congregation in the singing of a hymn. He leads out in directing a choir, but he follows in directing a congregation, for such singing is the "singing of the heart" and a prayer unto God. I believe that congregational singing is a more sacred exercise than concert or choir singing. Let us not spoil it by injecting the technic of concert or choir-directing.

The Church music committee is recommending that we have more congregational singing in our services, and that we use a greater variety of hymns. A sacrament service is quite perfect and complete with no music other than congregational hymns. In the hymn-singing project, which began in April, a different hymn is to be emphasized each month. In regard to congregational singing practice, if the hymn is known, merely encourage the congregation to give good attention to the words and to sing them with meaning; if the words are prayerful, sing prayerfully; if they are joyful, sing them with joy. Adjust the tempo accordingly. As a matter of fact, there is little need to practice well-known hymns. If the hymn is not known, frankly learn the tune line by line, but even here, keep the sense of the words uppermost. Sing with fervor, not too loud, not too fast, but always ardently.

Singing by women's choirs is prepared music. It is here that musical details should be carefully worked out by the director so that music will be given life and expression. It is here that part-singing should be studied, and attention paid to attacks, climaxes, rests, holds and all technical details. Clear enunciation should be stressed. In singing it must even be exaggerated in order to be effective, for listening to singing without being able to understand the words is generally quite uninteresting. Conversely, the message of the choir may touch the listener's heart.

At rehearsals, choirs should practice singing softly and with good balance of parts. The voice quality of a choir improves with soft singing, and if the singers will listen to each other while singing, they will improve the balance of parts. With regard to pitch, it is largely a matter of careful attention. A director cannot mention it too often, for singing in tune is really the first requisite. An excellent aid to singing on pitch is to sing without accompaniment. An instrument serves as a crutch for the choir to lean on. Without it the singers are automatically put on their mettle. They think better, hear better and sing better. As much as half of every rehearsal could well be spent without accompaniment. Soft singing is another aid in the matter of pitch. It enables the singers to hear the other parts and to harmonize consciously with them.

Let us take pride in setting fine standards of music and worship in the Church. May we have sacred music on the Sabbath, may we have impressive congregational singing, and may our choirs take joy in fine musical presentations. Then music will make its proper contribution in the program of the Church.