[Vol27 | May 1940 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Beautification Program]
RELIEF  SOCIETY  CONFERENCE 
301 
the  April  issue.    (See  Relief  Society 
Magazine,  April,  1940,  page  257. 
Beautfiicatfon  Program 
An  important  new  project,  inaugu- 
rated during  the  past  year  by  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric,  is  the  beautification 
program  for  cleaning  and  beautifying 
both  the  interior  and  exterior  of 
chapels  and  homes  throughout  the 
Church.  We  bespeak  for  this  pro- 
gram the  immediate  and  valuable 
cooperation  of  our  Relief  Society 
women.  Upon  request  of  the  Priest- 
hood authorities,  a  representative  of 
the  Society  will  be  a  member  of  the 
beautification  committee  in  each 
stake  and  ward.  These  corrimittees 
will  work  out  plans  for  their  respec- 
tive localities. 
The  Sacrament  Table 
In  connection  with  Church  beau- 
tification, the  General  Board  suggests 
that  Relief  Society  women  offer  to 
give  assistance  to  the  bishop  in  seeing 
that  the  Sacrament  linens  are  of  suit- 
able quality  and  size,  immaculate  in 
appearance,  and  properly  folded  and 
cared  for  between  meetings. 
H^- 
ANNUAL  REPORT 
Vera  White  Pohlman,  General  Secretary-Treasurer 
B EFORE  presenting  data  from  the 
annual  report  for  1939,  I  should 
like  to  quote  some  pertinent  excerpts 
from  an  article  by  the  noted  writer. 
Pearl  Buck,  which  appeared  in 
Harpers'  Magazine  for  July  of  last 
year.  In  that  article  she  dealt  par- 
ticularly with  the  millions  of  Amer- 
ican women  who  have  surplus  time, 
energy,  and  ability  which  they  do  not 
know  how  to  use.  They  have  sur- 
plus time  because  of  modern  house- 
keeping conveniences,  the  availabil- 
ity of  ready-made  clothing,  fast, 
modern  means  of  communication 
and  transportation,  because  on  the 
average  their  families  are  small  or 
grown,  because  they  are  not  com- 
pelled to  earn  their  living,  and  many 
of  them  can  hire  someone  to  care  for 
their  homes  and  children.  The 
women  who  compose  this  large  group 
usually  have  a  fair  or  even  an  ex- 
cellent education.  To  use  the  exact 
words  of  Pearl  Buck— "Spoiled,  pet- 
ty, restless,  idle,  they  are  our  nation's 
greatest  unused  resource  —  good 
brains  going  to  waste  in  bridge  and 
movies  and  dull  gossip,  instead  of 
constructively  applied  to  the  nation's 
need  of  them.  .  .  .  The  most  tragic 
person  in  our  civilization  is  the  mid- 
dle-aged woman  whose  duties  in  the 
home  are  finished,  whose  children 
are  gone,  and  who  is  in  her  mental 
and  physical  prime  and  yet  feels  there 
is  no  more  need  for  her.  .  .  ."  Mrs. 
Buck  then  proceeds  to  outline  con- 
structive work  which  women  might 
do  (and  you  will  recognize  their 
counterpart  in  the  activities  of  Relief 
Society  women)  to  improve  condi- 
tions locally  and  nationally  in  the 
interest  of  children,  education, 
health,  maternity  care,  housing,  legis- 
lation, and  community  beautifica- 
tion. As  I  read  these  observations, 
I  felt  a  new  appreciation  for  the  op- 
portunities for  work,  for  growth  and 
development  which  our  Church  pro- 
vides for  women. 
I  marvel  that  98  years  ago,  when