[Vol27 | May 1940 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Looking Forward to 1942]

WHAT a glorious thought that in two short years from now our great Relief Society organization will have given one hundred years in service to humanity! Who could even begin to enumerate the countless unselfish acts which have gone to form this long chain extending across the past century, and which is unbroken, except for the rather brief space when the original pioneers were making the great westward trek. Surely such an achievement deserves the best we can give in the way of our 1942 centennial observance. Much of the joy of any event comes from anticipation as well as from realization, and a joy shared is a joy increased. Let your plans go forward joyfully and prayerfully.

By rare good fortune, the actual anniversary date—March 17—falls, in 1942, on Tuesday, our regular meeting day, so it will be particularly fitting for the local organizations to stage their celebrations on that day. We suggest that, where possible, this be done in a stake capacity rather than in separate wards, so that both efforts and funds can be combined to accomplish something really outstanding. But this, like all your efforts, must be determined by your local conditions. Begin planning now, for it is not too soon.

The General Board feels that, following the local celebrations, the logical time for a large general observance will be at the time of the regular conference in April of 1942. We are looking, so to speak, through our opera glasses from the big toward the little end at this time, and at some future conference we shall turn the glasses around and give you a magnified view of what is in store. In the meantime, we are earnestly seeking for inspirational ideas to add to those we already have in mind, and shall be more than happy to consider any suggestions you may send in.

Anniversaries are important occasions, not only for the inspiration received at the actual time, but in retrospect because of the joy which memories bring. Our 1942 celebration will belong to every member of the Society. Many women, otherwise unable to do so, may be able to join us in the general celebration if they start planning and saving now.

Our centennial observance must comprehend much more than the actual seventeenth day of March. We want the entire year 1942 to be known as "Relief Society Centennial year," not only to those within the Church but to everyone. There is no other woman's organization extant that has functioned continuously over a period of one hundred years. This is "news" and we believe some of our big national magazines which report current happenings will be eager to give us space in their columns. What better missionary medium could the Church ask for than a report through these sources concerning our organization, what it stands for, and what it has accomplished during the past century!

Let us all try to sense the great importance of the occasion which faces us. Let us join hands, unitedly resolved to suitably commemorate our centennial anniversary.