[Vol27 | May 1940 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Annual Report]

BEFORE presenting data from the annual report for 1939, I should like to quote some pertinent excerpts from an article by the noted writer, Pearl Buck, which appeared in Harpers' Magazine for July of last year. In that article she dealt particularly with the millions of American women who have surplus time, energy, and ability which they do not know how to use. They have surplus time because of modern housekeeping conveniences, the availability of ready-made clothing, fast, modern means of communication and transportation, because on the average their families are small or grown, because they are not compelled to earn their living, and many of them can hire someone to care for their homes and children. The women who compose this large group usually have a fair or even an excellent education. To use the exact words of Pearl Buck—"Spoiled, petty, restless, idle, they are our nation's greatest unused resource—good brains going to waste in bridge and movies and dull gossip, instead of constructively applied to the nation's need of them. . . . The most tragic person in our civilization is the middle-aged woman whose duties in the home are finished, whose children are gone, and who is in her mental and physical prime and yet feels there is no more need for her. . . ." Mrs. Buck then proceeds to outline constructive work which women might do (and you will recognize their counterpart in the activities of Relief Society women) to improve conditions locally and nationally in the interest of children, education, health, maternity care, housing, legislation, and community beautification. As I read these observations, I felt a new appreciation for the opportunities for work, for growth and development which our Church provides for women.

I marvel that 98 years ago, when women generally were completely occupied within their own homes, that the Prophet Joseph Smith should have organized the Relief Society for women, telling its first members, "You are now placed in a situation where you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. . . . This Society is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls . . . and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time."

There should be no discontent from idleness among the 86,000 women who are members of the Relief Society. There should be no good brains going to waste among Relief Society women who, during the year 1939, attended an aggregate of nearly 77,000 meetings, of which 71,000 were study or handwork groups in the local organizations, and 6,000 were stake or ward conferences and officers' planning meetings.

The roll call gave some indication of the geographic distribution of Relief Society organizations. There are 78,500 women in the Relief Societies which are located in 43 of the 48 states in this country, in the District of Columbia, and in the territories of Alaska and Hawaii. There are 7,500 women in Relief Societies in foreign lands. The largest enrollment in a local Relief Society is 197 in the Second Ward in Mesa, Arizona, and some of the smallest Societies, consisting of 3 members each, are in Samoa, New Zealand, and Tonga.

BUT data from the annual report are more significant when compared with a preceding period. By this means we gauge changes which are occurring, and measure our growth. Twenty years ago this April I began several years of service in the office of the General Board, and so to me it has been both interesting and revealing to compare this annual report of 1939 with that of 1919. During these two decades the number of stakes has grown from 69 to 128, and the number of local Relief Societies in the stakes and missions has advanced from 1,109 to 2,077. In 1919, 78 years after the organization of the Relief Society, its membership was recorded at 45,413, but during the following 20 years the membership nearly doubled—reaching 86,142 by the end of December, 1939. The 1939 membership represents an increase of 5,902 over that of 1938—the largest gain in one year's time ever recorded in the history of the Society. This host of new members, congregated together, would fill practically all available seats in the Tabernacle.

The fact that a larger portion of membership is now assigned to special duty is significant. For example, in 1919, less than half the members were serving as officers or as visiting teachers; in 1939, two-thirds of the members were serving in these capacities, providing opportunity for special development and service for a greater number of women. There were three times as many ward officers in 1939 as in 1919, and twice as many visiting teachers.

A tremendous increase in the activities of the visiting teachers has occurred during the past 20 years. More than one million calls were made to the homes by these friendly visitors during 1939—10 times as many as in 1919. In fact, there was an average of only 3 visits per year to each member's family twenty years ago, as compared with an average of 13 visits per member last year.

Another significant change is found in the decreasing number of days spent in the care of the sick. Despite the considerably smaller membership in 1919, 10,000 more days were spent in the care of the sick than in 1939. On the other hand, special visits to the sick increased from 86,000 to 214,000. Several factors may be responsible for this decided shift from the all-day care of the sick to special visits in their behalf. Fluctuation in the content of sickness is an important factor, but perhaps one of the main reasons is the greater availability of both public and private nursing service, so that families are no longer so dependent on Relief Society women for this care. This situation presents a typical example of the way in which Relief Society women meet the immediate need but also plan constructively for the future. They spend thousands of days each year in the actual care of the sick, but, at the same time, the organization is fostering the development of skilled nursing service. The Relief Society early recognized the need for more nurses in our communities, and for several years prior to 1920, conducted classes in practical nursing which were attended by hundreds of young women. During the twenty-year period under comparison, the Relief Society has sponsored more extensive training for nurses, experimenting for three years with one-year hospital courses for nurse aids, followed by the establishment in 1923 of a loan fund to enable girls to enter hospitals for standard three-year courses, and in 1926 of a loan fund for graduate nurses desiring to take training in public health nursing. To date a total of 68 young women have utilized these funds—51 for under-graduate training and 17 for training in public health nursing.

In 1939, Relief Society women prepared 1,361 bodies for burial—only half as many as in 1919. This is an indication, I would say, of the increasing availability of the services of morticians in outlying districts.

During 1939, Relief Society organizations—wards, stakes, missions, and the General Board, disbursed a total of $373,782.48, more than double the amount disbursed twenty years earlier, in 1919. Payments for charitable purposes last year amounted to $97,244.44, an increase of 25 percent over charity payments in 1919. Of this amount, $58,968.32, or 70 percent, represents direct assistance to families in their homes, the remaining $38,276.12, or 30 percent, was for preventive and corrective health work, the purchase of eyeglasses and other medical and surgical appliances, cooperation with other agencies in dental and health clinics, and sponsorship of service and vocational training projects.

In addition, the Relief Society distributed commodities, mostly food and clothing, valued at $19,933.58. Throughout the Church the Relief Societies are cooperating wholeheartedly with the broader Church welfare program. Reports indicate that they are collecting commodities, making quilts, canning and drying foods, preparing wool, making and remodeling clothing—which are turned over to and distributed through the stake bishops' storehouses, and which, therefore, are not included in the figures of Relief Society disbursements which I have quoted.

On the whole, these few bare facts can give but little indication of the scope and value of Relief Society work to the needy, to the community, and to the members themselves. Its educational, cultural, and spiritual values, its individual and community service, can never be fully measured and expressed in statistical terms.

In conclusion, I should like to repeat the following words of Eliza R. Snow, the first secretary of Relief Society, which were a part of the first annual report of the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo, for the year ending March 17, 1843, and which are still applicable: "We hope the ladies of the Society will feel encouraged to renew their exertions knowing that the blessings of the poor are resting upon them. We feel assured from what has passed under our personal observation, that many during the inclemency of the winter were not only relieved, but preserved from famishing, through their instrumentality. More has been accomplished than our most sanguine anticipation predicted, and through the assistance and blessing of God, what may we not hope for the future?"

(Note: The detailed financial and statistical report for 1939 will appear in the June issue of the Magazine.)