[Vol27 | May 1940 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Singing Mothers Near and Far]

Music Department
SINGING MOTHERS NEAR AND FAR
Beatrice F. Stevens
Member of General Board of Relief Society

IT is impossible to evaluate the worth of the contribution being made by our Singing Mothers. Not only has our own organization been greatly benefited, but many worshiping assemblies of the Church have been enriched by their beautiful singing. Their influence has raised musical standards and brought increased culture and joy to all who have listened. Through these choruses, hundreds of women have opportunity for self-expression and many have been encouraged to develop unsuspected talent. Today, in practically every stake and in many wards may be found a group of women singing worth while music. Their generous giving of time and effort is deeply appreciated. A movement so valuable and popular will continue to grow.

With the winning of recognition comes responsibility of advancement. Let us improve the musical knowledge and tone quality of our groups, enlarge our repertoire, being sure to include fine hymns. Choristers and organists, better your own technique.

We hope you have found the articles written by Professor Wade N. Stephens and published this last year in our Magazine to be helpful. Why not refer to them frequently?

Extensive preparation for centennial celebrations is anticipated. We plan, also, to invite combined stake choruses to furnish music for our general conferences and trust this will add incentive and enthusiasm to your work. As plans progress, you will be advised.

We offer our new Relief Society Song Book, hoping you may find interesting material in it. We also urge the use of the cantata, Resurrection Morning, which was written especially for Singing Mothers by B. Cecil Gates; its choruses may be used in different ways, as duets, trios, etc.

(Note: For information on the Song Book, see Relief Society Magazine, March, 1940, page 193; for a review of the cantata, Resurrection Morning, and directions for ordering, see the Magazine for February, 1940, page 113, and for March, 1940, page 194.)