[WomansExponent | Vol5 | 1876 | April | Issue: 22 | Title: "IN SEASON AND OUT OF SEASON." | Author: Unknown]

"IN SEASON AND OUT OF SEASON."

	This passage of Scripture will apply to the
work now laying before women to accomplish,
and they will find that it will not do to stand
still and wait for some one else to do, but
everywhere be earnest in the work before
them. It has been often remarked that there
is too much talking among women, but in the
present day there seems to be a necessity for
it. "To do more and talk less," is another fav-
orite phrase of many, but to add works to
preaching is better. Women have many things
to do now-a-days, and it is positively neces-
sary to do a vast amount of talking, as well as
brain, and head work. Executive ability is in
good demand, but there is hardly a premium
for it.
	Talk to the purpose is perhaps applicable,
but talking of some sort has evidently got to
be done; and as men have not time to do all the
talking, women must do some of it. "In sea-
son and out of season, in the house and by the
way," in every place where good can be accom-
plished, women should be willing to bring in-
to requisition all the talents they po[-]sess to
bring about the good results for which they are
laboring. It will not do to be too sensitive to
criticism; it is very evident there is some real
work accomplished by women or the public
would not be making such a noise about the
woman cause. Wherever any material good
is effected there is always opposition. The
work now being done among women is some-
thing really wonderful, and while the real ben-
efit is apparent there is little need to care for
what "Madame Grandy" says. Above all wo-
men on the earth the Latterday-Saints should
be earnest and zealous, in season and out of
season, they have the greatest purpose in la-
boring, To lay a sure foundation for them-
selves and children, that they may not be left
without resources when the judgments of God
shall come upon the nations and when Baby-
lon shall fall.
	There is no danger of saying or doing too
much in a good cause, started in the right di-
rection. The women of Utah are moving for-
ward to establish and sustain every depart-
ment of home industry, manufacture and im-
provement, that is, or can be made practicable
for women. They not only talk, but work, and
add faith to works; and may God also add His
blessing to every earnest endeavor.
					[handwritten] E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
