[WomansExponent | Vol5 | 1876 | April | Issue: 22 | Title: GENERAL CONFERENCE AT ST. | Author: Unknown]

	GENERAL CONFERENCE AT ST.
				GEORGE
	This year a new epoch seems to have
opened in the history of the church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, and they have
held their General Conference in a Temple
built and consecrated to God and the adminis-
trations of the holy priesthood upon the earth.
The two stands opposite each other, were oc-
cupied by those bearing the priesthood of the
order of Melchizedec and Aaron. In the first
stand sat President Brigham Young, his coun-
selors and the brethren of the Twelve and
some others. In the opposite one Bishop Ed-
ward Hunter and some other Bishops. Presi-
dent B; Young opened the conference by giv-
ing out the hymn. President D. H. Wells of-
fered the dedicatory prayer, the choir then
sang, "High on the mountain top a banner is
unfurled." The Conference was then address-
ed by Elder George Q. Cannon and President
Brigham Young. The combined choir sang
"And it shall come to pass in the last days."
	In the afternoon of the first day Elder Jos-
eph F. Smith, and President John W. Young
addressed the congregation, after which Pres-
ident Brigham Young said he desired to preach
in terms not long but loud. In all our deal we
should do unto others as we would have oth-
ers do unto us. The Choir sang "Oh praise the
Lord all ye nations."
	The second day of Conference in the morn-
ing Elder C. C. Rich and Elder Wilford Wood-
ruff addressed the people and Elder George Q.
Cannon read a long list of names of mission-
aries appointed to different localities. Some to
Europe, some to the United States and some to
Arizona, after which he made a few remarks
and President Brigham Young said to the
Conference, that the purer the Latter-day
Saints were, the greater would be the rage of
the wicked but the less would be their power
to persecute. The choir sang, "As the hart
panteth after the water brooks."
	In the afternoon of the second day of Con-
ference, after the usual regular exercises, Eld-
er George Q. Cannon read another list of
names of missionaries who were called to pro-
claim the Gospel in different parts of the world
and fourteen Elders whose mission it was to
study the Spanish language.
	It was also moved, seconded and unanimous-
ly carried that the Relief Societies throughout
the Church take a mission to raise silk and do
all in their power to clothe themselves and
their families.

[Column 2]
	Elder Cannon also presented the authorities
of the Church who were unanimously sus-
tained by vote of the Conference. Elder Frank-
lin D. Richards, and Elder Erastus Snow oc-
cupied the afternoon, at the close the choir
sang "Behold O God, our shield and look upon
the face of thine anointed."
	Sunday morning third day of Conference,
Elder Brigham Young Jr., and Elder John
Taylor addressed the congregation. President
Brigham Young spoke to the Conference on
the subject of union. He announced that the
seats of the congregation would be reve[-]sed
and Bishop Edward Hunter would administer
the sacrament. Elder George Q. Cannon pre-
sented the names of some more missionaries.
Sunday afternoon Bishop Edward Hunter first
addressed the Conference, he was followed by
Bishop Edwin D. Wooley; then President
Brigham Young said "we will adjourn this
Conference from this house to the New Taber-
nacle in Salt Lake City, commencing at 10
o'clock in the morning of October sixth next."
	The choir sung "How beautiful upon the
mountains," the congregation then arose and
sung, "The spirit of God like a fire is burning."
Benediction pronounced by President Brigham
Young asking the blessing of God upon all
there assembled, and the good and honest in
heart all over the earth; that the spirit of God
might rest down upon the Temple, that an-
gels might visit it, and all who ministered
there for the living and the dead might feel
the holy influence of the power of God.


