[Vol51 | January 1964 | Page 11 | Special Feature | Quo Vadis? — Third Prize Poem Margery | S. Stewart]
[Quo Vadis? — Third Prize Poem Margery S. Stewart]

Quo Vadis?

They say that Peter
Fleeing his cross,
Plodding through midnight
On the Appian Way,
Was halted by an angel,
Who asked gently, "Quo Vadis?
Quo Vadis, Peter?" and the words
Made a gate.

When I was a child
Pondering this story
I was resolute,
No two words would keep me
Or hold me from going
Where the cross was not,
Would send me to the
Irrefutable hammer and the
Splintering wood.

With all my childish strength
I leaned down years
Urging Peter on, past angel,
Past anguish . . . slow blood
Rusting on the nails . . . .
Oh, hurry, hurry, Peter!
What manner of angel
Brings a riddle at the hour
Of one's death?

But I have learned
That all disciples come
Soon or late
To that same midnight and
The angel's cry . . .
Even I
Most shabby follower.

Quo Vadis is a gate
Opening to a touch . . . to where?
To what?
Without him what way is there?
Peter's answer was his turning back.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Margery S. Stewart

11

JANUARY 1964

ALICE MORREY BAILEY, a versatile and gifted writer, has been a repeated winner in the Relief Society literary contests. She won first prize in the short story contest the year of its initiation, 1942, and has won three times in subsequent years. This year's award in poetry places Mrs. Bailey as a winner for the fifth time. Other poems (many of them frontispieces), as well as stories, articles, and three serials of hers have appeared in the Magazine. Mrs. Bailey is a member of the Sonneteers (a poetry workshop), the Utah Poetry Society, and the League of Utah Writers, in which she has served as chapter president and a member of many executive committees. She has been a judge in several literary contests and a featured speaker at various conventions.

Her many other talents and abilities include sculpture, music, painting, secretarial and administrative work, and nursing.

Mrs. Bailey's Church work has included positions in all the women's auxiliaries. She is the wife of DeWitt Bailey, and they have three children and twelve grandchildren.

HAZEL LOOMIS, a well-known Wyoming author, has been represented in The Relief Society Magazine by many outstanding poems. She was born in Verdure, Utah, and grew up in Monticello. She attended Brigham Young University as well as other universities. Mrs. Loomis has been twice married. Her first husband was killed in an accident, and she is now married to Ray Loomis, a chemical engineer, who has a son in the graduate school at Denver University. Mrs. Loomis is an active member of the Casper Writers Club, and is interested also in music and art. Her writings have appeared in magazines of National circulation, and she writes short stories and plays, as well as poems. Active in positions of leadership in the Church, Mrs. Loomis is at present the stake literature class leader in Relief Society and is also a Sunday School teacher.

MARGERY S. STEWART, a former Utahn, now lives in Pacific Palisades, California, where she is actively engaged in Church work and in literary activities. Her daughter Sandra Phelps and five grandchildren live nearby, and a son Russell Stewart, Jr. is a student at Santa Monica City College. A former member of the League of Utah Writers, and a present member in absentia of the Sonneteers, Mrs. Stewart is affiliated with the Ina Coolbrith Poetry Circle of California and recently won first prize in their annual contest. She also writes plays and articles.

Mrs. Stewart has been represented in The Relief Society Magazine by frontispiece poems, articles, stories, and several excellent serials. She has won awards twice in the Relief Society Short Story Contest, and three times in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. Her work has appeared in poetry anthologies, in magazines of National circulation, and she has achieved high rating in many contests. Mrs. Stewart expresses her love of literature as a continuing joy: "I have enjoyed the association I have gained through writing and the constant challenge and delight of this form of expression."

12

THE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the
