[Vol51 | January 1964 | Page 14 | Special Feature | Moment of Trust — First Prize Story Mary | Ek Knowles]

Moment of Trust

Mary Ek Knowles

First Prize-Winning Story
Annual Relief Society
Short Story Contest

[PHOTOGRAPH]

BUD came to Donna while she was fixing Patti's hair in rollers and listening to her read from the third grade reader. He asked, "Mom, can you let me have five bucks tomorrow?"

Donna had hoped that this moment would not come. She was aware of her son towering over her, tall and handsome with his brown eyes and crew cut. Bud was only sixteen but he had always acted quite adult and sensible—until he fell in love with pretty Candy Thompson.

"Five dollars," she cried, stalling for time, wishing that Sheldon was not in Portland on business. He would handle this problem calmly. She was inclined to become emotional. Her head was already beginning to ache.

"Whatever for, Bud?"

"The Spring Hop is tomorrow night and I'm broke." There was almost a note of surprise in Bud's voice.

Donna remembered that for over a month, ever since Bud earned fifteen dollars helping Mr. Brown move to his new hardware store, both she and Sheldon had been warning him, "Remember to save your money for the big dance."

And she remembered with a hot rush of anger the way Bud had said casually, "Ah, don't worry, Mom. I know what I'm doing," as he continued to spend and spend money on popular Candy.

Now she said firmly, "Your father and I warned you that if you spent your money foolishly, you would have to take the consequences."

"But, Mom!" his voice cracked a little. "Things came up . . . ."

"Like malts and hamburgers at Hoddy's," she interrupted, "and sessions at the bowling alley and two trips to the city."

"But, Mom, if you want to keep a popular girl like Candy, you have to show her a good time!"

She remembered that this was

14

[ILLUSTRATION]

Bud's first girl and she felt herself weakening. Then she shook her head. "Candy knows you aren't the son of a millionaire but you have acted like one. In addition to the fifteen dollars, you have spent your weekly allowance. . . ."

"You won't let me have the five bucks, then?"

"No, Bud." She turned her head because she could not stand to see the white stricken look on his face, and there was a pounding in her forehead.

"I've got to get five bucks somewhere!" There was desperation in his voice as he walked out of the room.

Patti asked, "Isn't Bud going to take Candy to the dance?"

"He can't, Patti. He has spent all of his money."

"But, Mommy, Candy has a new dress for the dance. Joy told me." Joy was Candy's nine-year-old sister. "A white dress with yards and yards of fluffy white stuff in the skirt." Patti sighed. "Candy's awfully beautiful and popular."

And Bud is so completely daffy about her that he's knocked off his even keel, Donna worried. Maybe Candy would never date him again; and Bud — he had always taken discipline like a man, but this was different. Now someone would have to suffer because of him.

She finished the last roller. "Off to bed, darling," she said. "Did I read all right, Mommy?" she asked.

"You read beautifully." She kissed her small daughter, thinking how uncomplicated were problems with a nine-year-old.

IT was after eleven when she went to bed, but she couldn't sleep. Once she almost telephoned

15

JANUARY 1964

Sheldon in Portland, but he would not relent, either. They had always been firm with Bud, knowing he was in that difficult age where he was constantly testing them, demanding more and more that they give in to him, yet unconsciously, inconsistently, hoping they wouldn't give in, so that in a world where true values are taken lightly, he could depend on their unshakeable discipline.

At breakfast Bud looked so worried that her heart ached for him. She wanted desperately to give him the money. What was five dollars! But she knew it wasn't the money involved. He must take the consequences of his mistakes to become a mature, responsible adult.

Bud got up from the table and a few minutes later when she lifted the receiver to telephone her grocery order, she heard him talking to Freddie Smith. She heard Freddie say, "So I charge high interest!" The gang resented Freddie. They called him Shylock because he demanded his pound of flesh for each penny loaned. Bud was really desperate if he would appeal to Freddie for a loan!

Mrs. Olafson, the cleaning woman, came then and Donna went with her to the basement to give instructions. When she came back upstairs, Bud had his jacket on. He said, "Mom, listen. I..." And then Mrs. Olafson called from the basement. Donna went to the top of the stairs to see what she wanted, and when she returned Bud was gone.

She was extremely busy after that. She was in the presidency of the Relief Society, and she called the members of the luncheon committee in regards to the opening luncheon and social. At eleven she was going to the ward to quilt, and so she prepared an oven meal for dinner, but busy or not, all the time she was hurrying and working she worried about Bud. How would he handle the situation with Candy!

SHE was quilting when she discovered her coin purse was missing. Marge Griffin asked if someone had change for a dollar. Donna said, "I have twenty dollars worth of change," and reached into her black leather bag. There was no coin purse.

She began a frantic search, taking everything out of the large bag. Marge said, "Never mind, Sister Stacey has it." Donna said, "Oh... fine." And she sat there, a sinking feeling in the pit of her stomach, retracing her movements since the day before.

She had gone to town and shopped. As she neared home she remembered that the cleaner would be returning Sheldon's slacks. She had stopped at Carter's grocery store and had the twenty dollar bill changed.

She could remember hastily cramming the bills and small change into her large coin purse. The cleaner had driven up just as she stopped the car. She had

16

MOMENT OF TRUST

paid him a dollar bill and forty cents. Then she had gone into the house, carried her handbag to the bedroom. Then Sister Landley had telephoned to ask the name of the poem that the Stake Relief Society president had read at the monthly leadership meeting.

Donna could see herself carrying the bag into the hallway, placing it on the table, and taking out the slip of paper on which she had written the name and author of the poem. She had left the bag there while she had checked a book of poems in the library to see if she had that particular poem. The purse was still on the hallway table until she left this noon. She thought, Bud would have seen it when he telephoned Freddie. The contents were tumbled about, the money quite visible in the transparent plastic coin purse.

But Bud would never steal from me! She quickly pushed the thought out of her mind, horrified at such disloyalty.

But where was the coin purse! Her handbag was one of the new, large carry-all type, with straps, open at the top. Her arms had been loaded with bundles. Maybe after she paid the cleaner she had thought she was dropping the coin purse into her handbag, but instead had dropped it on the ground.

She hurried from the ward to her home, and once there she looked carefully from the curb to the front steps but found nothing. And then, as she took her door key out of her handbag, she remembered seeing the plastic coin purse in her handbag when she had gone through the same motions the day before.

Maybe, absent-mindedly, once she was in the house, she had put the purse somewhere else. She began a thorough search through drawers, coat pockets, jackets, cupboards, the linen closet.

She pushed back her dark hair with a trembling hand. Maybe her memory was playing tricks. She could have thought she put the coin purse in her bag, but instead had left it at Carter's. She could even have paid the cleaner with loose change from the bottom of her handbag.

She hurried out and walked the half block to the store. Mrs. Carter distinctly remembered her putting the coin purse in her bag. It had been a crazy hope. She had known all the time she had paid the cleaner with loose change from the coin purse in her handbag.

She walked slowly home. Candy Thompson came towards her. Candy was so young and pretty with her glossy blond hair and blue eyes. "Mrs. Gardner," she said gaily, "will you please tell Bud to call for me at seven tonight? We're going to double date with Betty and Archie."

"I'll tell him, Candy." Donna smiled stiffly and hurried home, afraid she was going to burst into tears, remembering Bud saying

17

JANUARY 1964

desperately, "I've got to get five bucks somewhere!"

But if he did succumb to temptation, he would only take five dollars, not the coin purse. But maybe there hadn't been time to do anything but grab the purse. Could he have hastily hidden it somewhere? She went to Bud's room. Her heart sank when she saw the closet in confusion, as if things had been hastily moved to find something, or to hide something. She had always respected her children's privacy, but now she searched everywhere for the purse, hating herself.

Finally, trembling with exhaustion, she gave up, went to her room, and sank down on the bed. The evidence against Bud confronted her and she quieted quietly. It was her fault Bud was a thief. She should have let him earn the money. The attic needed cleaning. There were any number of jobs he could have done. She heard the front door open and Bud's and Patti's voices. Should she accuse Bud? Or would he admit the theft on his own? What had he wanted to tell her this morning? She heard music. She walked slowly down the stairs. In the hallway below Bud was teaching Patti to dance, counting patiently, his big feet slowed to her small ones.

DONNA reached the foot of the stairs, her throat tightening. Patti cried, "Look, Mom, Bud is teaching me to dance!"

Bud laughed, "Me a dancing teacher!"

How could he be so gay! Better get the matter over with now. She said thickly, "Bud, I want to talk to you."

He stopped dancing, "Yeah, Mom?"

She began, "Bud, how could . . ." and then she looked at her son with his wide grin, with his clean freckled face, his honest face, and shame washed over her. Bud was not a thief! Even with all the evidence against him, she did not believe it!

She knew then that this was the moment of trust that all parents know at least once in their lifetime. That moment when overwhelming evidence is cast aside in favor of love and trust and blind faith.

Bud asked, "You sick or something, Mom? Got a headache? Want an aspirin?"

She stammered, "There isn't any. I have to . . ." She stopped. But there was a whole box of aspirin on her bedside table! She had had a headache and had made a quick trip in the car to Wight's drugstore just before she went to bed. She had taken her coin purse out of her bag, slipped it into the pocket of her coat! Her worry about Bud had completely driven the incident out of her mind. Her coat pocket was shallow. Could the purse have fallen out unnoticed on the seat? She turned and ran out the back door. Bud called, "Mom! Where are you going? I want to

18

MOMENT OF TRUST

tell you something important." She opened the car door, felt along the front seat, her hand trembling. It was when she opened the other door that she saw the coin purse. It had slipped off the end of the seat onto the floor next to the door. Fortunately, she hadn't had occasion to open the door or it would have fallen out. She leaned against the car, her legs shaking.

"You lose something, Mom?" Bud was standing by the car.

She looked up at her son, so tall and yet so young, so terribly vulnerable and impressionable. Yes, she had almost lost something precious. If she had failed that moment of trust in her son and had accused him, a bond between them would have been destroyed forever. Maybe Bud had borrowed the money from Freddie and it would take a year's allowance to pay it back, but Bud was not a thief!

Bud said, "Mom, I had to have the money for the dance, and I knew you wouldn't give it to me." He grinned. "Old-brick-wall Mom. So I had to use the old brain, you know? I sold my track shoes to Skinny Peters. I almost tore the closet apart finding them. Hope it's okay?"

Suddenly Donna's little world, which since yesterday had been spinning crazily, righted itself. Bud had got the money by his own ingenuity. She began to cry with relief. "Well, gosh, Mom, I'd outgrown them!" Still she cried. "Mom, did I say something wrong? I mean, calling you a brick wall? I'm glad you and Dad are like a brick wall, and...."

"I k-know and I'm h-happy you sold the sh-shoes and...."

"Then why are you crying? Gosh!"

"Because I l-love you and...."

Bud shook his head. "Women are sure dopey."

"Especially mothers, Bud," she laughed shakily. "Especially mothers."

MARY EK KNOWLES, Ogden, Utah, is well-known to readers of The Relief Society Magazine. Four of her prize-winning stories, as well as other contributions, have previously appeared in the Magazine. She has received recognition from several magazines of National circulation where her stories have been featured. She is a member of the Blue Quill writers' club in Ogden, and a former State President of the League of Utah Writers. After receiving the letter telling her about winning the first prize in the contest, Mrs. Knowles replied: "Since winning the first prize before (1961), many things have happened to me. In August of 1962 my wonderful husband died after a long illness.... Then the following January my dear father died.... But, of course, there is much to be grateful for, my three wonderful children, my adorable grandson and granddaughter, my good friends, and my good health."

19

[ILLUSTRATION: Sketch showing Christmas scene with family gathered around table, woman serving, and portrait of young boy's head on right side]
