[Vol51 | January 1964 | Page 35 | Special Feature | What Is a Work Meeting Leader? | Sylvia Lundgren]

What Is
a Work
Meeting
Leader?

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a smiling woman with curled hair holding what appears to be a small cylindrical object with a sparkle or star emanating from it]

Sylvia Lundgren

Between the innocence of youth and the dignity of mature sisters, we find the delightfully blessed lady called the work meeting leader.

Work meeting leaders come from various backgrounds, but all have the same possibility to teach, inspire, and uphold the standards of the Relief Society and the home, and to enjoy every hour spent in planning and executing the plans, and to protest only with new ideas when one work meeting is completed and the next one comes into view.

Work meeting leaders are found everywhere — in department stores, variety stores, antique shops, supermarkets, attics, basements, back yards, kitchens, and even in city dumps. They are planning, always planning how to inspire all members to use their own talents and make the most out of what they have.

Presidents love them, counselors counsel with them, chairmen work with them, and husbands and children wonder what they are doing with all that junk.

35

JANUARY 1964

A work meeting leader is beauty with a creative mind, wisdom with glue on her fingers — the hope of the Relief Society, with scissors, needles, and thread in her pockets.

When she uses long-range plans, her Relief Society is active and happy with their accomplishments, but when she plans for only one month, and maybe that just before work meeting, she is not successful and Relief Society spirit begins to lag.

A work meeting leader is a composite. She has an appetite for work-meeting luncheons, the disposition of an angel, the curiosity of a research laboratory, the energy of an atomic bomb, the imagination of a great designer, the enthusiasm of a firecracker. When she plans a work meeting she draws on the talents of all the sisters.

She likes sisters who are enthusiastic chairmen, who arrive on time and set up their own departments.

She is not enthusiastic over late comers and early goers, nor sisters who work reluctantly, nor demonstrations poorly planned. Nobody else is so early to arrive or so late to go home.

Nobody else gets so much inspiration from a pretty bottle, tin cans, bits of yarn, scraps of material, or ten cups of whole-wheat flour.

Nobody else can cram into one day the putting on of a quilt, making pixie dolls, costume jewelry, burlap carry-all bags, have a demonstration on how to put in sleeves, turn a collar, hand-rub furniture, how to budget money, make strawberry jam, and yet have hot baked bread ready for lunch.

Nobody else can coordinate her chairmen so that each has time and materials to demonstrate.

A work meeting leader is a magical creature. She has the privilege as no other to use any and all who have talent. She can reach sisters who can be reached in no other way. She can make the new timid members feel needed and appreciated. She can go into the home of an inactive member and spy a work of art, a treasure longing to be shared and used. She can work magic in getting this reluctant sister to come back to Relief Society.

You can get a work meeting leader out of the chapel, but you can't get her off the phone. You can give her all the rope she needs, and she'll hang your work meeting on top with activity and attendance. Might as well give up. She is genius, your devoted slave, your lifesaver, the backbone of your work meeting, your pillar of strength and a real sister indeed.

When you feel your resources have hit bottom and your budget is overdrawn, your home-making standards need to be raised, but you don't know how, and you feel frustrated by having tried and failed, she can cure all your ills with the magic of attending just one work meeting.

We are so thankful for work meeting leaders!

36
