[Vol51 | January 1964 | Page 66 | Lesson | Literature — Sinclair Lewis, American Self-Satirist Briant | S. Jacobs]
[Literature — Sinclair Lewis, American Self-Satirist Briant S. Jacobs]

LITERATURE • America's Literature

The Last Hundred Years

Lesson 47 — Sinclair Lewis, American Self-Satirist (1885-1951)

Elder Briant S. Jacobs

(Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 855-866)

For Third Meeting, April 1964

Objective: To study and evaluate middle-class United States of America during the 1920's as represented in the life and writings of Sinclair Lewis.

"Mirror, mirror on the wall, who is fairest of us all?" The relatively unknown writer, Harry Sinclair Lewis, created his most telling mirror of the 1920's on his typewriter; rather than proclaiming the most beautiful and fair, he caricatured himself and those whom he had known best among the 2,500 people of Sauk Centre, Minnesota, his typical, all-American home town which he was to make immortal. His five major novels which appeared during the 1920's had a magic in them which neither he nor his publishers could foresee or control. His novels sold far into the millions, exceeding even his fondest dreams for the fame and money he knew one day were to be his, all earned, to be sure, by his two index fingers pecking at the keyboard so steadily that his hands and wrists became sore. Then, as now, few critics list his name among America's greatest writers. He himself was painfully aware that his mimicking transcriptions of reality often seemed nearer a journalistic transcript of everyday living than the great literary art or style young Hal had once dreamed of achieving. While many loyal writer friends and literary critics defended his work and praised it highly, he founded no such literary school as did Howells before him or Hemingway after him. How, then, are we to account for the magic of his appeal?

A full accounting would be presumptuous, so devious are the patterns of public taste, but some appeals are obvious. The first and greatest is as immediate as a yellowed high school year book or a family photograph album. A second appeal may have been the emergence of a new identity for the Nation as it struggled to find itself among the complex and multiple cross-currents of our modern age; this he vividly portrayed in his writings. A third appeal may have been the "revolt from the village," the smugness and mediocrity of small town life, which found, in Lewis, a major spokesman. He sometimes cruelly satirized the shortcomings of

66

LESSON DEPARTMENT

established institutions — social, intellectual, patriotic, economic and religious — for smugness, complacency, and mediocrity which he found to be their dominant characteristics. In detailing with meticulous and penetrating realism the human foibles of middle-class America, Lewis was both idealist and realist, hating his drab, stereotyped home town yet loving it. The seeds of all his villains and heroics lay within himself, there tossed about and torn apart by the raging conflicts which he always tried so desperately to resolve by writing them out of himself.

The Lewis Family Life
Lewis' father, Dr. E. J. Lewis, was a stern, methodical, parsimonious man, proud of his Puritan ancestors and dedicated to the virtues of responsibility and hard work. A school teacher before he began "reading medicine" in a Minnesota doctor's office, he believed strongly in education as a tool necessary for success. Lewis' mother was a fellow teacher, reared in Waseca, Minnesota, who gave birth to Harry, her third son, in 1885. She was sickly with tuberculosis and pleurisy, and died when he was six. A year later Dr. Lewis brought a stepmother into their home. She often read to "Hal," gave him the companionship not to be found in his father, and earned Hal's lifelong affection.

When the oldest brother left a Chicago dental school in mid-term he returned home to work in the flour mill and to marry, but he was never to be much either in the family or in Hal's life. It was his brother Claude who was the father's favorite son, Claude who followed his father's footsteps, to medical school and a profitable medical practice in St. Cloud, Minnesota, Claude who was wanted and successful, Claude whom the gangly, lonely, and teased Hal envied as a boy and whom he tried to impress for sixty years of his life.

Without a strong sense of belonging in his home, scorned by the one girl to whom he made puppy-love advances, left out by Claude and the older boys whom he so admired because of his being the "little brother" who always wanted to tag along, cast out by boys of his own age save for one lone friend, Hal found comforting escape in keeping a diary and in the English literature books which his father kept in the house but never mentioned. The beauty and idealism of the romantic poets best filled his needs, while nature was far more real to him in the pages of his lifelong passion, Thoreau's Walden, than were the rolling Minnesota prairies. Little as there was to do in plain Sauk Centre, decades before the advent of organized recreation, lonely Harry did less. Over six feet before he was sixteen, he was so awkward at dancing that he never learned, yet he attended the school dances by sitting in a corner and reading a book the entire evening.

When he was seventeen his parents sent him to Oberlin Academy in Ohio, a Congregational school, where he experienced a religious ferment and strongly desired to become a foreign missionary. But after a summer in Sauk Centre he forgot this dream, while his father decided on Yale as best preparation

67

JANUARY 1964

for his professional future. Here, as at Oberlin, he attended practically no social functions, often walked alone in the fields, and during the summers traveled by cattle boat to Liverpool and Panama. With a school chum he spent a month as janitor at Helicon Hall, an experiment in communal living dominated by the socialist reformer and novelist, Upton Sinclair. With no funds from his father until he returned to school, he made a meager living doing hack work for various magazines, then returned to Yale, from which he was graduated in 1907. He toyed with the possibilities of studying law and medicine, but, instead followed the pattern of his greatest college interest and decided to become a writer.

Sorely disappointed in Harry's evident irresponsibility, Dr. Lewis gave him no financial or moral support. Completely on his own, Harry wrote magazine articles and corrected copy in newspaper offices, finally settling in New York City where, in 1914, he married Grace Hegger, a talented and beautiful young girl who was supporting herself by working on the staff of Vogue magazine. In 1917, his first son, Wells Lewis, was born. Before his first great success in 1920, when Main Street was published, he wrote four novels which were mildly praised.

After the phenomenal sales of Main Street guaranteed both his fame and his fortune, Lewis began the great decade of his life, sustained by the wide acceptance of his best novels, Babbitt (1922), Arrowsmith (1925), Elmer Gantry (1927), and Dodsworth (1929). Although Main Street has been translated into nearly every European language, it is usually considered that Babbitt and Arrowsmith constitute Lewis' best work. Exemplifying his nonconformity, he declined the Pulitzer Prize (for Babbitt) in 1925. It was through the character of Babbitt, an American businessman, that Lewis truly pictured himself. However, in 1930, when he was the first American to be offered the Nobel Prize (for Arrowsmith), he accepted. Though before his lonely death in Rome in 1952 at the age of sixtyseven he was to write over twenty novels, innumerable short stories and essays, his best work was done by 1930, impossible though it was for him ever to admit it.

Homeless Harry
After Main Street made Sinclair Lewis a Great Personage his success was undeniably proved to his family and home town by terms they could understand — money. Throughout the remainder of his life Lewis returned often, but never could he stay long, neither there nor any place. Having achieved success, he continued to pursue success even more relentlessly; all he ever gained from his endless self-driving were fame and money. He was a bundle of restless, nervous energy which never exhausted itself. An "amusing, ardent person, condemned to perpetual vitality," he spent his life searching for the romantic ideals of peace, goodness, and beauty which he had first loved in his lonely childhood; not finding them in the world about him, he attacked human weakness wherever he found it, both in himself and in others,

68

LESSON DEPARTMENT

more and more frequently exploding in violent tantrums at those who, in the slightest, opposed his will or doubted his literary greatness.

Sinclair Lewis inspired genuine love in Grace Hegger, his first wife, and in Dorothy Thompson, his second, though both left him, alcoholism being a contributing factor. He loved jokes and plotting out actions and conversations which amused others. Though stingy at times, he was often most generous, both with his own family and with struggling writers. When he so chose, he had a boyish charm and whimsical warmth which gave those near him delight. Most often in his earlier years he could be tender and gentle to adults; never could he communicate with children, including his own.

Main Street

Everything in Lewis' life was secondary to his writing. His writing he always loved; to the end of his life he frequently lost himself in the intensity of work, successfully using his writing as escape from the personal problems he could neither face nor solve. And when he combined his continuing drive to know life as it really was with Sauk Centre (called Gopher Prairie in the novel) which he loved so fully that after his youth he could not bear living there — only then was such a conflicting combination ready to produce Main Street, which appeared in 1920.

The novel centers about Carol Kennicott, wife of the complaisant village doctor. Having been brought to Gopher Prairie as a new bride by her husband, who knows her talents and her restless desire to improve her world, Carol increasingly feels trapped.

The physical makeup of the town reveals the same clutter, conformity, and subservience to established values which she sees in its inhabitants:

Main Street with its two-story brick shops, its story-and-a-half wooden residences, its muddy expanse from concrete walk to walk, its huddle of Fords and lumber-wagons, was too small to absorb her. . . . The skeleton iron windmill on the farm a few blocks away at the north end of Main Street was like the ribs of a dead cow. She thought of the coming of the Northern winter, when the unprotected houses would crouch together in terror of storms galloping out of that wild waste. They were so small and weak, the little brown houses. They were shelters for sparrows, not homes for warm laughing people. . . .

Dyer's Drug Store, a corner building of regular and unreal blocks of artificial stone. Inside the store, a greasy marble soda-fountain with an electric lamp of red and green and curdled-yellow mosaic shade. Pawed-over heaps of toothbrushes and combs and packages of shaving-soap. Shelves of soap-cartons, teething-rings, garden-seeds, and patent medicines in yellow packages . . . notorious mixtures of opium and alcohol, in the very shop to which her husband sent patients for the filling of prescriptions. . . .

A small wooden motion-picture theater called "The Rosebud Movie Palace." Lithographs announcing a film called "Fatty in Love."

Howland & Gould's Grocery. In the display window, black, over-ripe bananas and lettuce on which a cat was sleeping. Shelves lined with red crepe paper which was now faded and torn and concentrically spotted. . . .

A score of similar shops and establishments.

Behind them and mixed with them, the houses, meek cottages or large, comfort-

69

JANUARY 1964

able, soundly uninteresting symbols of prosperity. . . .

In all the town not one building save the Ionic bank which gave pleasure to Carol's eyes; not a dozen buildings which suggested that, in the fifty years of Gopher Prairie's existence, the citizens had realized that it was either desirable or possible to make this, their common home, amusing or attractive (from Main Street, pp. 33-37 passim. Copyright 1920 by Harcourt, Brace & World, Inc.; renewed 1948, by Sinclair Lewis. Reprinted by permission of the publishers).

From the street and all that it symbolizes Carol flees, distraught at the thought of making her home and future in Gopher Prairie. Evoking no responses from her husband, she finds stimulating ideas and conversation with Miles Bjornstam, a drifting jack-of-all trades, and Guy Pollock, the local lawyer, who more fully defined the force which stultifies the village:

She asked impulsively, "You, why do you stay here?"

"I have the Village Virus."

"It sounds dangerous."

"It is, more dangerous than cancer that will certainly get me at fifty unless I stop this smoking. The Village Virus is the germ which — it's extraordinarily like the hook-worm — it infects ambitious people who stay too long in the provinces. You'll find it epidemic among lawyers and doctors and ministers and college-bred merchants — all these people who have had a glimpse of the world that thinks and laughs, but have returned to their swamp. I'm a perfect example. . . . When I first came here I swore I'd 'keep up my interest.' Very lofty! I read Browning and went to Minneapolis for the theaters. I thought I was 'keeping up.' But I guess the Village Virus had me already. I was reading four copies of cheap fiction-magazines to one poem. I'd put off the Minneapolis trips till I simply had to go there on a lot of legal matters. . . . I

decided to leave here. Stern resolution. Grasp the world. Then I found that the Village Virus had me, absolute! I didn't want to face new streets and younger men — real competition. It was too easy to go on making out conveyances and arguing ditch cases. So — — That's all of the biography of a living dead man . . ." (Ibid., pp. 155-157).

Chapter XI (text, page 856) details Carol's increasing disillusionment when she joins the Thanatopsis, a women's study club, and attempts to inject into their circle her new ideas about really studying a few great writings and about bringing all forces of the community together to build beneficial projects in a spirit of unselfish cooperation. Rather than listening to Carol, each person speaks in tones of mutual distrust, self-interest, and entrenched prejudice. As she raises her hand to vote for the measure she abhors (pressure of the group being the true mechanical dominance which forces her hypocrisy) she begins to realize how effectively she has been checkmated in her efforts to liberate and improve her community.

Increasingly convinced that she will suffocate if she stays in Gopher Prairie, Carol leaves Will and runs away to Washington, D.C., where for two years she tries in vain to discover or create a set of values to replace those of Minnesota provincialism. Neither glad nor sorry to be back, she is soon expecting her second child but still unwilling to submit to the village, even though she knows she has been beaten. One evening before retiring, Carol leads her husband to the nursery and points to their daughter.

70

LESSON DEPARTMENT

". . . Do you see that object on the pillow? Do you know what it is? It's a bomb to blow up smugness. . . . Think what that baby will see and meddle with before she dies in the year 2,000! She may see an industrial union of the whole world, she may see aeroplanes going to Mars."

"Yump, probably be changes all right," yawned Kennicott.

She sat on the edge of his bed while he hunted through his bureau for a collar which ought to be there and persistently wasn't. . . . "I do not admit that Main Street is as beautiful as it should be! I do not admit that Gopher Prairie is greater or more generous than Europe! I do not admit that dish-washing is enough to satisfy all women! I may not have fought the good fight, but I have kept the faith."

"Sure. You bet you have," said Kennicott. "Well good night. Sort of feels to me like it might snow tomorrow. Have to be thinking about putting up the storm-windows pretty soon. Say, did you notice whether the girl put that screwdriver back?" (Ibid., pp. 450-451).

And the subduing of Carol is complete.

Of What Value, Sinclair Lewis?

As stated by T. K. Whipple, "Sinclair Lewis is the most successful critic of American society because he is himself the best proof that his charges are just." At his own true and idealistic core Sinclair Lewis was a typical middle-class American who passionately opposed all forms of tyranny over men's minds and spirits. Though his sympathies for oppressed minority groups is revealed elsewhere, his best novels reveal and expose the most widespread, most dangerous threat to basic freedoms: the self-tyranny of established prejudice and smugness, hypocritical lip service to the enduring economic, social, and religious ideals, while at the same time worshipping bigness, quantity, and material "success." Most ironically, Lewis himself loved these very proofs of boosterism and measurable success which he satirized most brilliantly. Though Sinclair Lewis idealized Thoreau's economic simplicity and integrity, in his inner heart's immediate worldly desire, Lewis loved best what he satirized. Lewis had a sensitive ear which allowed him to catch the idioms of American speech as no writer has done since Mark Twain. The speech of his characters is loaded with cliches rarely found in the dictionary but still alive and current: "you rightwad," "roughneck," "why sure, you bet," "I feel punk," "I work like the dickens," "common as mud," "that takes the cake," "I stuck to it through thick and thin." Sometimes sentimental, at times overly caustic, Lewis had a remarkable ability to mirror architecture, detail of decor and design, to lampoon and reveal folkways of American middle class.

But always behind the irony of Lewis there is an idealism which conceives of a better society than the one his writings reveal. Out of this gap between what was and what should be came the endless torrent of nervous energy which, controlled and directed, produced his best works, but when applied to social problems not entirely absorbed by his imagination, yielded inferior writings.

71

JANUARY 1964

Thoughts for Discussion

1. The life of Dr. E. J. Lewis, Harry's father, was dominated by a stern sense of duty. Do you feel this sense of duty was inherited by his son, or was it repudiated by him?

2. Do you feel that Lewis' evaluation of middle class America during the early 1920's is valid?
