[Vol51 | January 1964 | Page 4 | Special Feature | Purpose of the Relief Society Joseph | Fielding Smith]
[Address Delivered at the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1963]

Purpose of the
Relief Society

President Joseph Fielding Smith of The Council of the Twelve

[Address Delivered at the Relief Society Annual General Conference,
October 2, 1963]

As I stand here looking into your faces, this brings to me wonderment, and I wonder if the Prophet Joseph Smith saw in vision the sight that I am beholding here this morning.

On the 17th day of March, 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith met with a number of the sisters of the Church in Nauvoo and organized them into a society which was given the name of "The Female Relief Society of Nauvoo." Besides the appointment of officers, the Prophet Joseph Smith gave the sisters general instructions, quoting from The Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants. The detailed instruction of this opening session was not recorded, but it had to do primarily with the responsibility devolving upon the sisters of the Church in the care of the poor, the sick, and the afflicted. That this organization was by revelation, there can be no doubt. This truth has been abundantly demonstrated throughout the years and today its value and necessity are abundantly attested.

No bishop in the Church could carefully and efficiently care for the many wants of his ward without the help that comes from this wonderful organization.

In his journal, March 24, 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith wrote that he again met with the Relief Society. The record states that there was a very "numerous attendance." On this occasion the Prophet pointed out in some detail the purposes of the organization, saying that knowledge of the pure principles of humane, philanthropic benevolence could flow continuously from the bosoms of the sisters in behalf of strangers, the distressed, the widows and orphans, and make their hearts rejoice. He said:

Our women have always been signalized for their acts of benevolence and kindness; but the cruel usage that they received from the barbarians of Missouri, has hitherto prevented their extending the hand of charity in a conspicuous manner; yet in the midst of persecution, when the bread has been snatched from their helpless offspring by their cruel oppressors, they have always been ready to open their doors to the weary traveler, to divide their scanty pittance with the hungry, and from their robbed and impoverished wardrobes, to divide with the more needy and destitute; and now that they are living upon a more genial soil, and among a less barbarous people, and possess facilities that they have not heretofore enjoyed, we feel convinced that with their concentrated efforts, the condition of the suffering poor, of the stranger and the fatherless will be ameliorated (DHC IV, 567-68).

4

PURPOSE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY

FROM this humble start under the most difficult conditions, when the membership of the Church was small, we have seen this Society grow until it spreads over most of the civilized countries of the world. The good that has been accomplished in the care of the poor, care of the sick and the afflicted, and those who are in physical, mental, or spiritual need, will never correctly be known. This, however, need not be our concern. The main interest lies in the fact that all of this has been accomplished through the spirit of love in accordance with the true spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is clear to see that without this wonderful organization, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints never could have been completely organized.

We, the Brethren of the Church, honor and respect our good sisters for their unselfish devotion to this glorious cause. We stand to lend encouragement and in every way possible to lend assistance where assistance is required for the success of the Relief Societies of the Church. Our prayers ascend in your behalf. May the spirit of the Lord be with you always to buoy you up and give you strength and courage in this wonderful department of the Church, I humbly pray in the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ, Amen.
