[Vol51 | January 1964 | Page 20 | Fiction | Carol's Christmas | Adelle Ashhy]

Carol's Christmas

Adelle Ashby

CAROL sat up and pulled the quilt around her. She didn't turn the light on. The glare of it would add a sharpness to the night, a sharpness and an awareness with which she didn't want to have to cope. The hour was late, but it wasn't dark outside. The first snow of the season floated earthward, and the moon was bright. She watched the whiteness grow in depth on the boughs of the gnarled apple tree just outside the window and wanted to be out. She knew the coolness of the winter night would help her separate her thoughts, but she didn't get up. She just sat there, quietly, not wanting to wake Hal. She sat there, remembering his warning and remembering Michael's eyes.

Michael's eyes bothered her most. It was too late for Hal's warning, but maybe it wasn't too late to do something about Michael. If she only knew what the look in his eyes was trying to tell her. Sometimes Carol thought he was enjoying the pre-Christmas festivities, but whenever she looked in his eyes, she knew he wasn't. And she wanted him to so very much. Sometimes he would look up and almost say something, but the words didn't come.

Carol knew that part of the trouble was his loneliness for his parents, but there was something else . . . something dark and deep.

It was wrong to force a new kind of Christmas on him, Carol thought, and she could hear Doris say, "Honestly, Carol, you make so much of Christmas! There's no need to, you know. . . . No one does nowadays."

Carol pulled the quilt up around her more snugly, and, in so doing, was reminded that even in the everyday things, she hadn't advanced much . . . not by most standards, especially those set up by Doris. The bright patches of the quilt shone out in the path of moonlight that played across her bed. She loved the ties, the memories of long ago that the patches brought to her . . .

20

CAROL'S CHRISTMAS

and she loved the old lace curtains in the living room, the doilies and the chairbacks on her furniture, and the braided rug in the hall. . . .

So it was with Christmas at Carol's house. She and Hal had always made candy and gingerbread men, and poured wax candles, even before their six children came along. What was the word Doris had used? Quaint.

"Quaint," Carol repeated aloud, and Hal stirred and let his breath out in little mumbles.

CAROL looked at him and smiled. "Dear Hal," she whispered, "you shouldn't spoil me so. If you didn't always let me have my own way, I would not get into some of the things I do." She slid down between the sheets and slipped into his arms. Then she remembered what he had said when she had asked him about taking Doris' children for Christmas.

"Honey, you're asking for trouble."

"Oh, Hal, really . . . it's just for two weeks. Doris and Jim will be back the 27th. And I can't enjoy Christmas knowing those three are going to be alone."

"They wouldn't be alone. Grace offered to take them. As soon as Millie told me her mother was worse and she would have to go home for the holidays, I called Grace. Anyhow, it's more her place. . . . She is Doris' own sister, and you're . . ."

"I'm just their sister-in-law. . . . I know, but they're your sisters, and your nieces and Mike's your nephew . . . and it will be fun to give them a real Christmas. . . . Besides, Grace

" she hadn't finished, not out loud, but she said it to herself. Grace is just like Doris . . . They would have the same kind of a Christmas with her . . . pies from a bakery, cold cuts from the grocery, and the shimmering, aluminum Christmas tree with every blue bulb and every icicle in its proper place, and never the touch of a child.

"It will just be too much," Hal had continued, "nine children! You must be out of your mind to think you can manage.

Carol had giggled. "Nine children!" she mimicked. . . . "Six of them are ours, remember? Anyhow, I wish it were a dozen! Oh, Hal, I want Susan and Janet and Michael to have what we have, just for one Christmas. They've never made popcorn balls, or gone Christmas tree hunting . . . or dipped candles. . . . It will be so much fun to teach them. . . ."

"It will be just plain work."

"Will you mind?"

"No, Carol, I won't mind, except that I don't want you to wear yourself out. . . ."

"Then it's all settled. Anyway, the children know us better. Grace and Dave only get here once or twice a year. And I bet they'll be glad they won't have to make the long trip on the icy roads."

Hal had put his hat on then, and as he bent to kiss her, he had said, "I don't know why you always have to take on the worries of the whole family, but it seems you do, so go ahead. Just remind me to remind my dear sister not to take a second honeymoon trip again unless they are sure they will be back before Christ-

21

JANUARY 1964

mas, or that the woman they hire will be able to stay."

And he had gone out and Carol had begun the preparations. There were beds to change around, and clothing to rearrange to make room in the closets, and more shopping to do with the check Doris had left. Then one evening they went and got the children, and everything had seemed fine. Susan and Janet had been having the time of their lives, with Carol's two girls their age, but Michael....

Carol went to sleep then, with Michael's dark, searching eyes swimming before her.

THE next few days were so full of laughter and wrapping and baking and sewing, that Carol didn't have time to think. Hal had been right about all the children being a handful, but for the most part they were well behaved and she really was enjoying them.

They popped mountains of fluffy white corn and strung some of it on long red string. They made platters of rich, nutty fudge and crisp amber peanut brittle. They glued yards of red and green paper strips together for chains, and several evenings they bundled up to go around and see the brilliantly lighted homes with animated figures and bells and trees ... and everyone laughed and sang Christmas carols, and talked at once ... everyone but Michael.

Carol had been watching him, and hoping that he would come to her, but he didn't, and she knew his hurt had grown too big.

One evening she had Hal take some of the children shopping and she put the little ones to bed. And when the shoppers came home they went in separate rooms and shut the doors to wrap their treasures. They stuck more Santa seals on the packages than necessary, and used miles of silver ribbon. But Mike went into the living room and sat alone.

Carol went in. He was so still, she hesitated to intrude, but she knew she had to.

"Mike ... I guess things are pretty hectic around here, aren't they?"

"Sorta...."

"Is there something you would like to tell me?"

"No...."

Carol looked at him and felt his word hang heavy in the air. "Tell me about your Christmases. What do you do that you like the very best?"

He didn't answer. He just cleared his throat, and she knew he was close to tears.

"Tomorrow's the day we go after our tree." Carol knew he wasn't really listening, but she went on anyway. "We used to go cut one ourselves, but they won't let us do that any more, so we start out early and visit nearly every place in town where they sell trees, and we stand them up one by one and look at them carefully. It takes us a long time to pick one sometimes, because Uncle Hal likes them tall and lean, and I like them short and fat, and Peggy and Dicky...."

SHE stopped. She knew Michael was crying ... there were no tears, but she knew he was crying inside, where it's worse. She knew he would rather be alone, but she

22

CAROL'S CHRISTMAS

didn't go. Instead she went over to him and put her arms across the back of the couch behind him.

"Mike, please, tell me. Are you homesick?"

"Sorta." he let the tears come then, and wiped them on the back of his hand.

"I'm sorry. Maybe Aunt Grace..."

"Aunt Carol, do you always buy a green tree?"

"Yes." And then she remembered the trees Doris always bought.... "But we don't have to. I mean, we could buy a silver one, and get all blue bulbs and..."

"No, please get a green one. Aunt Carol, are green trees old-fashioned?"

"I suppose they are..."

"Is being old-fashioned bad?"

"I... I don't think so. Maybe in some things it is. I mean, it would be pretty silly to keep a horse and buggy when you can have a car... or if you wouldn't use modern medicine when you were sick, it wouldn't be wise not to take the best of the new things and the best of the old things..."

"Mom always says that you... that you make more work for yourself because you're old-fashioned..."

"I guess I do." Carol thought of all the bread and rolls and cakes she always baked, and the quilt tops she stitched and the fruit she canned. "I guess your mother's right, it sure can complicate things, sometimes..."

"Aunt Carol." Michael wet his lips and began again. "Do you have a star for the top of your tree?"

"No... an angel. An angel with long, silvery hair."

"Mom says that a star should always be on the top of the tree. We made a lot more work for you, didn't we?"

"You mean by coming here? Goodness, no. I wanted you. Aunt Grace was coming for you, but I wouldn't let her."

"Really?"

"Really. I kinda thought.... I hoped you'd like to make popcorn balls and ornaments and... but I guess all that is pretty silly, isn't it?"

"Aunt Carol, may I hang a couple of bulbs on the tree?"

"You may do more than that. Uncle Hal always puts the lights on and the children have to do the rest."

"All of it? The icicles, too?"

"Especially the icicles."

"What if we get them all bunched up?"

"Who cares? We think it still looks pretty."

"With them all bunched up?"

"Especially when they're bunched up."

CAROL left the room then. She said it was time to bathe the other children, but she really had to leave because her throat was tight, and her voice wouldn't act as it should.

Maybe it isn't right to rear a child without letting him decorate a tree, but it isn't right to confuse him, either, and that's what she knew she had done. Confused Michael, and filled him full of doubts and questions....

Carol bathed the children and dressed them in soft flannel night-

23

JANUARY 1964

clothes and brushed their hair, and wondered what was going on inside Michael. She wondered what he meant by asking about the star. The angel had been in her family for generations, but maybe having a star was important, though she couldn't see why. . . .

Long after everyone was tucked in for the night, and long after she should have fallen asleep, she lay wondering about it and then it came to her. The story of the Wise Men, and the story of the Christ Child. And, along with remembering the story, a shame came over her.

Somehow she had become so involved with the cooking and the making, that she had forgotten. Quietly, she slipped out of bed and went into the living room and went over to the little table where she kept her books. She found the Bible and turned the pages, and there in the dimly lighted room, she turned to the Christmas story, and then went to Michael's room. He was sitting on the edge of his bed looking out into the night.

"Michael. . . ." Softly her words went to him, and he didn't move as he answered her.

"What?"
"I've been thinking . . . you know, about the star. . . ."
"I have, too."
"Would you like me to read the story to you?"
"You don't have a Bible. I looked in your bookcase, and I couldn't find one. Aunt Carol, could we go get mine? Mom told me to be sure and read the story each night before bedtime like we do at home."
"I have a Bible, Michael. Mike, you know about my being old-fashioned? Well, I guess I'm really not old-fashioned enough. . . . I had forgotten about the very first Christmas."

Michael turned on the night light and took the book from Carol. "May I read it?"

And as he read the words in hushed tones, Carol knew that it didn't matter what color the Christmas tree was, or if the candles were homemade. It didn't even matter if the children were allowed to put the icicles on the tree, so long as they knew what Christmas was for . . . so long as they were told the story.

New Serial to Begin in February

A new serial YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING, by Hazel Thomson, of Bountiful, Utah, will begin in the February issue of the Magazine. The setting for the story is picturesque San Bernardino, California, in the early days of its settlement, and presents the dramatic development of Selena Baldwin from a frightened and fearful girl into a woman of strength and courage who contends valiantly against a hostile environment and her own shortcomings. Mrs. Thomson is a gifted and experienced writer whose serial "Because of the Word" delighted the readers of the Magazine in 1961.

24
