Volume 51 Number 1 January 1964 Lessons for April Happ x New Year I Hi arprpy New Year to each and all! A glad, prosperous year ahead is our wish for you. Success in your undertakings, happiness in your homes,. Peace in your lives, and joy in your souls is our prayer for you. Faith in great abundance, a deep, abiding testimony, a motivating desire for greater spirituality, a stirring longing for gospel knowledge is our hope for you. "Lift up your hearts and be glad, for I am in your midst, and am your advocate with the Father; and it is his good will to give you the kingdom." This great promise given by the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith is a promise to the worthy who are willing to work in his kingdom. The Lord speaks of the gospel as the "voice of gladness" and as "glad tidings of great joy."' His instruction "that ye are chosen out of the world to declare my gospel with the sound of rejoicing" gives us the realization that only in righteous living is there true happiness and cause for rejoicing. How full of joy our lives are meant to be! Yet joy and happiness are of our own making. The secret of happiness lies within us. Some do not understand that to possess happiness one must pay the price in loving kindness, in devoted service, and in uplifting goodness. All of us have experienced failures and have made mistakes. Let us bury them in the unretraceable past, keeping only the wisdom derived from such experiences to guide our future. The New Year will be prosperous and happy if we make it so. The first day of the calendar year is one of the oldest of festivals. Its celebration is well-nigh universal. Dear sisters all over the world, as you celebrate the New Year, as is your custom, remember that our beloved Relief Society binds us together in a great, loving sisterhood. Its organization under the inspiration of our Father in heaven was for this purpose and to make us "'one'"' in his service. The New Year is rich in the promise of glorious opportunities. Let us make the most of them! Affectionately, weeny foe nok ate I have been a subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine ever since it was printed, and my mother always took the Woman's Exponent, so it is needless to say how much I appreciate the publication. It is part of my life. I have had responsibility in Relief Society almost all my adult life. I appreciate the wonderful articles and sermons in the M agazine. The poetry and stories are excellent. I have a little slogan that I think applies to Relief Society: There's a wealth of satisfaction in a labor well done, and a sense of great achievement when many work as one. __Mrs. Janette Crapo Miller St. Anthony, Idaho Truly The Relief Society Magazine is a missionary in very deed. It has opened the door for me into conversations which have led into wonderful gospel discussions with those of other faiths on many occasions. —__Ethel Lewis Ogden, Utah I must thank you for the wonderful article in the October issue of The Relief Society Magazine, by Mary M. Ellsworth, "A Message to Young Mothers," a most inspiring and practical article which my friends and I have enjoyed. _Mrs. Claren Jorgensen Corte Madera, California Thank you for the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. They are so pretty, with their colors, that they put sunshine into my days. After we finish our lessons on the Doctrine and Covenants, I hope we can study another of our standard works. —Patricia A. Leader Troy, Montana I am especially impressed with "A Message to Young Mothers," by Mary M. Ellsworth in the October issue of The Relief Society Magazine. I am going to try hard to follow the counsel given in this article. Thanks to Sister Ellsworth for the profound wisdom she displays in this article. Her lovely family is fortunate to have a mother with ideas of this kind. Also, I want to say thanks to Maxine Grimm for the article on "Ironing Out the Wrinkles," and I have been trying to use my ironing time to iron out my weaknesses. —Joan Garrard Oakland, California Many thanks for The Relief Society Magazine and Mary M. Ellsworth for the inspiring "Message to Young Mothers" in the October issue. Most of us try to grasp and absorb fragments of wisdom to help us over our trying times, but these fragments are sometimes hard to find and to call to mind when we really need them. So here we have been given a whole storehouse of practical help which I, for one, am going to keep in front of me to memorize and draw upon when the need arises. —Nina Panes Scarborough Ontario, Canada I wish it were possible for the sisters who write all the wonderful things in our Magazine to visit the Relief Societies and let us meet them. Our Magazine could not possibly be the help and inspiration it ls to so many mothers, old and young, if it were not for our wonderful sisters who are planning for our benefit. To me the Magazine is a messenger, bringing a message of courage, help, and good will. —-Lola B. Walker Monterey, California 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1963 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.