[Vol51 | January 1964 | Page 43 | Fiction | Kiss of the Wind — Chapter 7 Rosa | Lee Lloyd]

KISS
of the
WIND

Rosa Lee Lloyd

CHAPTER 7

[ILLUSTRATION: Black and white sketch showing a profile of a person's face with palm trees and sun in background]

"WHY would she do such a thing?" Ben demanded after Pixie and Tutu had left the room. "Why would my little daughter want to look like that!"

Luana smiled, wistfully. "She's fifteen, darling," she said. "Have you forgotten how it is to be fifteen? How you yearned to attract a special girl?"

"I wouldn't have looked at a girl with hair like that!" he stormed.

"Of course not," Luana agreed. "Pixie didn't want hair that color. She tried to be a honey blonde and turned out to be an orange one."

"Her own hair is pretty enough," he came back fiercely. "She's the cutest girl on the whole island. She looked like a little princess when she danced with Phil at the Gala Room. . . ." His voice was calmer. "I was so proud of them, Luana . . . fine, upright children — natural as the sunshine."

"I know," she answered, "but try to understand why she did it, Ben. There is a boy she wants to notice her. He is attracted to a pretty blond. . . ."

"Then he isn't the right boy for her," he interrupted. "She can attract her own kind in her own way. She is pretty enough."

Luana nodded, but her eyes did not quite agree with him.

"Yes . . . her own shade of hair is best for her. It is for any girl. But we must help her in other ways, darling. She must have braces on her teeth this year."

Ben paced back and forth across the room. At last he stopped before Luana.

"Do you think I haven't thought of that?" he questioned. "We'll get the braces, if I have to sell the plantation to the corporation."

43

JANUARY 1964

"No — not that!" Luana said. "This plantation is our home. I don't want you to work under pressure. I want to live here always. I want to make our living here."

Ben bent his head. He was quiet for a moment. When he looked at her again, his eyes were steady and confident.

"We'll get along," he said. "We always do, sweetheart. I'll talk to Pixie now."

Luana touched his cheek. "Be gentle with her. She loves you dearly and wants to please you."

His brows puckered together, thoughtfully.

"I want to say something that will make her realize that it's not the color of her hair that wins love — it's what she radiates — it's what she really is."

"She needs to know that," Luana said, "but now — we must do something about her hair. We could take her to a good beauty salon."

"Could they change it to her own color?" he asked, hopefully.

"I think so. . . . They retouch it some way, but it's expensive," she added.

"It won't break us," he smiled, "but she needs a lesson. Something that will remind her that mistakes cost money sometimes."

"How about making her pay for it out of her baby-sitting money? She has been saving for a camping trip."

"That's it!" Ben said. "Call the beauty salon and see if they can take her right away. I'll drive her there. I don't want anyone to see her with hair like that!"

THE twins were up at five o'clock on their birthday. They came romping to Luana's and Ben's bedroom, their ruddy faces glowing with joy.

"Look, Mama," Benjy whispered, snuggling his face against hers. "We're thirteen, Mama. Are you awake?"

"Yes, dear," Luana answered, as she pulled Bo down beside her, too. "Happy birthday, my darlings."

"Can we start on the picnic early?" Bo asked. "We told Sam Henri and Hiki and all the others we invited that we would start at six."

Luana sat up.

"Well! That is early. You boys take your swim right away. Then you can help with the lunch. Let's see — we decided on peanut butter and coconut sandwiches and big red apples. . . ."

"And tuna sandwiches, too," Bo added.

"And bananas and grapes so Toki can eat, too," Benjy said.

"That's right," Luana agreed. "Toki is part of our family now. We'll need a big jug of poi and potato chips."

"And one of our birthday cakes," Bo chimed in. "We have two cakes, Mama."

"Yes — we'll have the other one for our family. You remember that Daddy likes our family dinner after party guests have gone home."

"Are we having a luau, too, Mama?" Bo wanted to know.

"Not a real luau," she explained. "Our pig will be roasted in the roaster — not cooked

44

KISS OF THE WIND

under the ground on hot coals."
"Oh, sure," he laughed. "I remember."
"I wonder what I'll get for my birthday?" Benjy mused out loud.
Bo looked at him, disgusted.
"Come on, dopey!" he yelled as he dashed toward the lagoon.
Luana watched them as they ran through the sky-blue jacarandas and the brilliant pink flowers that were opening their petals in the early sunshine.
Everything is so fresh and alive, she thought. She drew a long breath, loving the fragrance of the flowery, sweet-smelling morning. She could see the dazzling blue sky and the bright blue water of the lagoon reflecting the great white cotton-puff clouds drifting lazily against the sun.
This was her own picture of paradise, she told herself with a long rapturous sigh. This was morning on the Pacific, on the long blue swells that washed the shores of the Hawaiian Islands. Midnight, moonlight and blue velvet twilight were equally entrancing, she thought, remembering that she had chosen early dawn for her own painting. That is when the wind kisses the waves and they linger breathlessly for that kiss. She had named her painting "Kiss of the Wind." It was more than a title. It meant her love for all that was dear to her — for all that Hawaii had given to her — her family, her home, her friends. "Thank you, dear Heavenly Father," she murmured as she turned from the window and hurried to the kitchen.

By six o'clock they were ready for the drive to the rolling hills only three miles away. It was an ideal place for a picnic, with a broad valley view.
Philip led the party in his own jeep. Benjy and Bo were with him. Ben followed, with the rest of the family in the station wagon. They were to meet their guests at the valley-top.
When they arrived at Hill Slope, they parked their cars beside the fields of yellow poppies. Margaret stood entranced. "Such color!" she exclaimed. "It is an artist's duty to give this glory to the world!"
"It is indeed!" Tutu said.
"Each place seems lovelier than the last one," Margaret went on. "I can't decide which to choose. But I must do so soon."
"There's a good view of Haleakala, the world's largest extinct volcano," Ben told her. "There — to your right."
"Oh, yes! It must be thousands of feet to the rim," she said.
"Ten thousand," Ben answered. "We will take you there before you leave. But now — let's picnic!"
Soft cool air floated over them as they started up the valley.
"What long grass!" Margaret called out. "And so green!"
Benjy and Bo were far up the valley with their young friends. Luana could hear them laughing and whistling to each other. When she heard a loud whooping and yelling, she knew they had reached the first big hau tree — one that would be just right for climbing and swinging.

45

JANUARY 1964

When the rest of them reached the big tree, the children were completely hidden in its tangled, leafy branches. They climbed like monkeys, laughing and calling to each other until they reached the tiptop branches. Then each of them straddled a long limber branch and came swooping down with a wild yell that echoed across the valley.

"Try it, Aunt Margaret!"

Benjy came running to her after he landed on the grass. "Mama did once. It doesn't hurt. Does it, Mama?"

Luana laughed. "Once is enough!" she said. "That's a good sport for sturdy boys. Not ladies. Let Aunt Margaret wait until we make our slide. That's thrilling enough for girls."

"It sure is," Emma Lu spoke up. "I haven't done anything that crazy for three years."

"Let me take Toki up the tree, Emma Lu," Benjy coaxed. "He'll like it."

"He's happy right here on my shoulder," she said. "He might get lost in those branches."

"Yes — he might," Benjy agreed with a reluctant shrug. "He sure might."

AFTER the second ride in the hau tree they started up the trail again. As they walked along, each gathered ti leaves. They were long shiny leaves that grew close to the ground.

Ben, who was walking ahead of the others, called back that he had found a place for the slide. He was standing near a smooth, grassy hillside with an incline that was not too steep.

"That's a sissy slide," Bo protested.

"This is steep enough," Ben insisted. "And not too steep for Tutu."

He looked meaningly at his twin boys. "We must remember that it was Tutu who taught us how to slide this way. When she was younger she could take the steeper slides. Now she needs an easy, gentle slope like this. I'll go first, to smooth the grass. Then we'll let Tutu slide after me, because they go faster as each one goes down. Phil — help me carry Tutu."

They crossed hands and made a carriage for Tutu. She put an arm around each of their shoulders, and off they went up the hillside. When they reached the top of the hill, Ben sat down on his ti leaves. He pulled the long stalks up in front of him. Then he moved himself forward until he began to slide down the hillside through the tall, wet grass. He waited at the bottom of the hill so he could catch Tutu.

"That was fun!" she laughed. "Try it, Margaret. It's getting slicker now."

Margaret's ride was faster than Tutu's. A little wet pool of mud was forming at the bottom of the slide. By the time it was Luana's turn, the grass was packed down and very slippery.

"Slick as a ski hill!" Luana laughed as Ben caught her at the bottom. "Your turn, Emma Lu."

"Not me! The Mainland has made a sissy out of me," she called out.

46

KISS OF THE WIND

THE boys had a rollicking time for the next hour, laughing and sliding and splashing mud all over each other. They were covered from top to bottom.

"Time to wash up," Ben said. "That picnic lunch will taste mighty good after these mud pies."

They found a stream in the poppy field and waded there in the bubbling water. Tutu had brought a bar of soap in her muu-muu pocket, and each took a turn washing off the mud. Then they went to the jeeps and station wagon to change into clean, dry clothes.

Luana spread a large straw mat on the grass, while Philip brought the picnic baskets brimming with food. There were wooden bowls for poi and mugs for pine and mint punch. A large, high basket held the birthday cake. There were dozens of sandwiches and large, crunchy chips, and sweet pickles.

When everyone was seated on the grass around the mat, Ben asked Philip to say the blessing. Luana thought she had never heard him offer such a heart-warming prayer. Words of gratitude came from his heart with fresh new vigor and meaning. Until this moment she had not realized how mature her oldest son had become.

There was a hushed silence when Philip said "Amen," as if each one had felt the love and gratitude he expressed.

"Well . . ." Ben said at last, "shall we taste Mama's good sandwiches? Margaret, would you like one of tuna? We catch these fish in our own lagoon. Tuna is our mainstay in these parts."

Soon the children were eating as though they had never tasted anything so good.

Sam Henri, a little Japanese boy with a cute, winsome smile, looked up at Tutu.

"My mother says you make the best poi in all Hawaii," he said. "She was almost afraid to send some of her Japanese sushi to drop in your poi."

"Japanese sushi!" Tutu exclaimed. "Those are vinegar rice balls. We will love them, Sam Henri."

SAM Henri jumped to his feet and ran to the jeep. He came back with a covered basket filled with tasty rice balls.

"Mm-m-m! Good!" Margaret said, as she ate one. "That's a new taste for me. I thought I had tasted everything."

"Sam Henri," Tutu said, "you tell your mother that I think she makes the best sushi in all Hawaii!"

After luncheon they leaned back in the tall grass and rested in the afternoon sunshine. Tutu told them Bible stories and legends of old Hawaii. Gradually, she led them into Sunday School songs, and the valley echoed with their joyous young voices.

As the sun moved toward the west, Luana, sitting beside Tutu, spoke to her in a low voice. "Sing the 'Star-Spangled Banner' so everyone will stand up. Benjy has been sleeping long enough."

So they sang the "Star-Span-

47

JANUARY 1964

gled Banner," and tears glistened in Margaret's eyes as she looked from one face to another, Hawaiian, Japanese, Filipino, Chinese, and Haole.

"Such devotion," she murmured.

"All Americans," Luana answered. "They know all five verses. Listen!"

As the sun turned coral in the west, they went happily homeward. Philip led the way. They were still singing as they rode down the valley road.

GAILY colored lanterns were lighted in the garden, where the table was set for the birthday cake. There were thirteen candles for each boy. Family presents were piled high on two little tables beside the big one.

Benjy jumped for joy when he saw his new steel guitar. He gave everyone a hug and a kiss. But Bo was very quiet as he unwrapped his large painting set.

Luana, watching him closely, wanted him to be pleased with it. She hoped he would understand that they had given him an expensive set because they appreciated his talent and wanted him to develop it.

His fingers moved across the pallet, then he carefully lifted each tube of paint and each box of crayons. He felt the quality of the drawing paper. At last he looked at Luana and Ben and his blue eyes were luminous.

"Thanks," he said in a quiet voice. "How did you know . . . I . . . wanted this?"

"We know what you need," Luana answered. "You have a wonderful talent. Bo, we are so glad you are pleased with your present."

"It's — the — greatest!" he said with a kind of rapture in his eyes.

"Anybody home?" a strong, manly voice called from the lanai.

Everyone turned to greet Elder Farnsworth, the branch president. He was a tall, slender, kindly man with gray hair streaked by the sun. His dark eyes were deep set and sincere. Everyone in the branch loved him dearly. He had an understanding heart and seemed able to discern what troubled people without questioning them.

"Happy birthday, boys," he said, smiling at Benjy and Bo. "I'm not really an uninvited guest. Your brother Philip invited me."

"I surely did!" Philip said, coming forward to stand beside Elder Farnsworth. "I thought this would be a good time to tell my family, when we're all together. You see, Mother and Dad," his eyes met theirs, "I have been asked about going on a mission. Elder Farnsworth has come to talk to you about it."

LUANA was not sure how she got through the next half hour. She was gracious and cordial to Elder Farnsworth. She was humble, grateful that Philip was worthy to be called, but, later, she lay in bed wide-eyed and sleepless. Where was the money coming from to send Philip on his mission?

48

KISS OF THE WIND

Ben slept restlessly beside her. She slipped out of bed without disturbing him. She would go to her lagoon where she had always gone to think and pray when she needed help.

It was one of those Hawaiian nights with a great, lustrous pearly moon that turned the white sand into glistening crystal. A soft, feathery wind rippled the blue velvet waves in enchanting rhythm. No one could see this lagoon in the moonlight and not yearn to see it again and again and again.

Her heart beat up into her throat! There, on the beach, was a woman sitting before an easel, painting a picture of her lagoon. It was Margaret!

Luana stood in stunned silence as she realized that Margaret, too, had decided that this particular place would make a perfect painting for the contest.

The white sand was cold beneath Luana's feet. She shivered, although the night was warm. Covering her face with her hands, she tried to hold back the resentment that almost choked her. She was ashamed of the thoughts that tumbled through her mind.

Margaret did not need the money from the contest the way Luana needed it. She did not have a teenage girl who needed to have her teeth straightened; no daughter who must have a pretty wedding; no son who had been called on a mission; no twin boys who needed lessons in art and music. Margaret's husband was a successful businessman, and Margaret's paintings had sold for large sums of money. Didn't Margaret realize that Ben was striving to hold on to this plantation?

Why, oh, why, Luana asked herself with a sob, did this contest mean so much to Margaret? Why did she work so desperately now in the middle of the night?

Quietly Luana knelt on the sandy beach, lifting her heart in prayer. She asked her Heavenly Father to free her from selfishness and resentment and cruel jealousy of Margaret. Her heart cried out in remorse. She could not bear to feel this way. Her Heavenly Father must know that she was not asking to win the contest for herself, but only for her husband and her children.

(To be concluded)
