[Vol51 | January 1964 | Page 38 | General Feature | Ear Huggers Are Nice | Shirley Thulin]

Ear
Huggers
Are
Nice

Shirley Thulin

[ILLUSTRATION: Profile drawing of a woman wearing a polka-dotted head covering or bonnet tied with a bow]

If your little girl has lost her warm ear-hugging hat, you can make this attractive one to replace it. Little girls love these hats, and they are ideal to wear with a pony tail.

You can make one from felt, wool, or corduroy. If you use wool or corduroy, you will have to hem or bind the edges.

You will need two pieces of material each about 12 inches long and four inches wide, some bright metallic or colorful rickrack for the trim, and two ties about 10 inches long.

To make a pattern to guide your cutting, make a line 16 inches long on heavy paper. Find the center of the line and make a mark. Four inches straight up from this mark, make another mark (Figure 1).

[FIGURE: Simple diagram showing a horizontal line labeled "16"" with a vertical dotted line extending upward 4" from the center]

Figure 1

38

EAR HUGGERS ARE NICE

[ILLUSTRATION - Figure 2]

Now, starting from one end of the 16-inch line, draw a rounded line curving up from the end to the center mark (Figure 2). Make another rounded line from the center mark to the other end of the 16-inch line. To be sure it is the same as the first curved line, it would be best to fold the paper in half and check.

[ILLUSTRATION - Figure 3]
Seam along top, joining front and back sections
4"
16"

You will now have a semicircle with the base 16 inches long, and four inches through at the widest part (Figure 3). You will need two of these semi-circle pieces, one for the back of the hat and one for the front.

[ILLUSTRATION - Figure 4]
seam

Make four small darts in the back piece on the straight edge to shape the back of the head (Figure 4). The two center darts should be two inches long and about 1/8 inch deep, two outside darts, one inch long and 1/8 inch deep. The darts should be about 3/4 inch apart.

How to make seam: Machine stitch the two pieces (front and back pieces) together along the rounded edge, then stitch the trim all around the straight edges. Now make the two ties and stitch one to each end. The ties can be yarn, braided, or bias tape, or a string made of the same material the hat is made from.

To trim the hat, you can make it as simple or as fancy as you wish. Just a single row of rickrack does nicely, or you can use lace, angora yarn, several rows of metallic trim, or even a leftover piece of fur.

39
