[Vol51 | January 1964 | Page 6 | Special Feature | John | Fitzgerald Kennedy]

John Fitzgerald Kennedy

On Friday, November 22, 1963, while riding in an open car in Dallas, Texas, President John Fitzgerald Kennedy, age forty-six, was shot and fatally wounded. His young wife Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy was in the car with him. President Kennedy, a native of New England, and son of a distinguished and closely knit family, was of Irish descent, the first Roman Catholic to become President of the United States, and the youngest man ever to preside as Chief Executive. His untimely and tragic death cast sorrow across many nations as leaders of the Free World grieved for their departed champion. A sad symbol of lost leadership was the riderless horse which followed the caisson in the processions of the final rites.

Mrs. Kennedy, thirty-four, mother of two living children, Caroline, six, and John F. Kennedy, Jr., three, evidenced great devotion, self- control, and courage of a high order during the days of mourning

6

and the final rites. She walked behind the flag-draped casket on its journey from the White House to St. Matthew's Cathedral, as did some other members of the family and the visiting heads of States. At the graveside she lighted a torch which is to burn perpetually at the head of the grave.

Immediately following the announcement of President Kennedy's death, President David O. McKay of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints issued a statement for the Church:

"I am deeply grieved and shocked beyond expression at this tragedy. In behalf of the Church in all the world I express sincere sympathy to Mrs. Kennedy and children and all of the close relatives and friends. The entire nation feels a sense of humiliation that such a tragedy could come to a President of the United States. Only a few weeks ago it was our privilege to entertain the President and now to think that he has gone we are stunned as well as shocked. It is terrible to think that such a tragedy could occur in this age of the world. Our prayers go in sincere and earnest appeal to the Almighty that he will comfort the nation in this hour of tragic grief."

President McKay appointed First Counselor Hugh B. Brown to represent the Church at the funeral services in Washington, D.C. In Salt Lake City, Utah, the Tabernacle Choir presented with beauty and solemnity a memorial concert, and, on the day of the funeral, President N. Eldon Tanner presided at a moving and impressive memorial service in the Tabernacle.

Thirty-fifth President of the United States 1917-1963

Vice President Lyndon Baines Johnson of Texas took the oath of office an hour and a half after the death of President Kennedy, an impressive demonstration of the wisdom of the Founding Fathers in their provision for continuity of office in the Presidency of the United States. Former Presidents of the United States, Harry S. Truman and Dwight D. Eisenhower attended the services and diplomatic representatives and heads of States from ninety-two nations.

The body of President Kennedy was laid to rest in Arlington National Cemetery, across the Potomac, not far from the Lincoln Memorial and the sad and brooding statue of the Great Emancipator.

President Kennedy's statement of courage and patriotism voiced in his Inaugural Address, less than three years before, was many times repeated: "Ask not what your country can do for you, but rather ask what you can do for your country."

7

THE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the three winners in the 1963 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. This contest was announced in the May 1963 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and closed August 15,1963.

The first prize of forty dollars is awarded to Alice Morrey Bailey, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "The First to Go." The second prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Hazel Loomis, Casper, Wyoming, for her poem "Verdure." The third prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Margery S. Stewart, Pacific Palisades, California, for her poem "Quo Vadis."

This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1924, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second General President of Relief Society, a gifted poet and inspirational leader.

The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry.
