[Vol51 | January 1964 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Lesson | Title: 66 Literature — Sinclair Lewis, American Self-Satirist Briant S. Jacobs]
— Ethel  Lewis 
Ogden,  Utah 
I  must  thank  you  for  the  wonderful 
article  in  the  October  issue  of  The 
Relief  Society  Magazine,  by  Mary  M. 
Ellsworth,  "A  Message  to  Young 
Mothers,"  a  most  inspiring  and  prac- 
tical article  which  my  friends  and  I 
have  enjoyed. 
— Mrs.   Claren   Jorgensen 
Corte  Madera,  California 
Thank  you  for  the  wonderful  Relief 
Society  Magazine.  They  are  so  pretty, 
with  their  colors,  that  they  put  sun- 
shine into  my  days.  After  we  finish 
our  lessons  on  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, I  hope  we  can  study  another 
of  our  standard  works. 
— Patricia  A.  Leader 
Troy,  Montana 
I  am  especially  impressed  with  "A 
Message  to  Young  Mothers,"  by  Mary 
M.  Ellsworth  in  the  October  issue  of 
The  Relief  Society  Magazine.  I  am 
going  to  try  hard  to  follow  the  counsel 
given  in  this  article.  Thanks  to  Sister 
Ellsworth  for  the  profound  wisdom 
she  displays  in  this  article.  Her  lovely 
family  is  fortunate  to  have  a  mother 
with  ideas  of  this  kind.  Also,  I  want 
to  say  thanks  to  Maxine  Grimm  for 
the  article  on  "Ironing  Out  the  Wrin- 
kles," and  I  have  been  trying  to  use 
my  ironing  time  to  iron  out  my  weak- 
nesses. 
— Joan  Garrard 
Oakland,  California 
Many  thanks  for  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine  and  Mary  M.  Ellsworth  for 
the  inspiring  "Message  to  Young 
Mothers"  in  the  October  issue.  Most 
of  us  try  to  grasp  and  absorb  frag- 
ments of  wisdom  to  help  us  over  our 
trying  times,  but  these  fragments  are 
sometimes  hard  to  find  and  to  call  to 
mind  when  we  really  need  them.  So 
here  we  have  been  given  a  whole  store- 
house of  practical  help  which  I,  for 
one,  am  going  to  keep  in  front  of  me 
to  memorize  and  draw  upon  when  the 
need  arises. 
— Nina  Panes 
Scarborough 
Ontario,  Canada 
I  wish  it  were  possible  for  the  sisters 
who  write  all  the  wonderful  things  in 
our  Magazine  to  visit  the  Relief  So- 
cieties and  let  us  meet  them.  Our 
Magazine  could  not  possibly  be  the 
help  and  inspiration  it  is  to  so  many 
mothers,  old  and  young,  if  it  were  not 
for  our  wonderful  sisters  who  are 
planning  for  our  benefit.  To  me  the 
Magazine  is  a  messenger,  bringing  a 
message  of  courage,  help,  and  good 
will. 
—Lola  B.  Walker 
Monterey,  California

The   Relief    Society  Magazine 
VOLUME  51        JANUARY  1964       NUMBER  1 
Editor     Marianne  C.  ShEirp 
Associate  Editor     Vesta  P.  Crawford 
General  Manager     Belle  S.  Spafford 
Special  Features 
1  Happy  New  Year!     General  Presidency 
4  Purpose  of  the  Relief  Society     Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
6  John  Fitzgerald  Kennedy 
8  Award  Winners  —  Eliza  R.  Snow  Poem  Contest 
9  The  First  to  Go  —  First  Prize  Poem     Alice  Morrey  Bailey 
10  Verdure  —  Second  Prize  Poem     Hazel  Loomis 
11  Quo  Vadis?  —  Third  Prize  Poem     Margery  S.  Stewart 
13  Award  Winners  —  Annual  Relief  Society  Short  Story  Contest 
14  Moment  of  Trust  —  First  Prize  Story     Mary  Ek  Knowles 
25  The  New  March  of  Dimes     The  National  Foundation 
35  What  Is  a  Work  Meeting  Leader?     Sylvia  Lundgren 
Fiction 
20     Carol's  Christmas     Adelle  Ashhy 
29     The  Lost  Star     Hazel  K.  Todd 
43     Kiss  of  the  Wind  —  Chapter  7     Rosa  Lee  Lloyd 
General  Features 
2  From  Near  and  Far 
25  Woman's  Sphere     Ramona  W.  Cannon 
26  Editorial:   The  Day  of  the  Lamanite     Marianne  C.  Sharp 
28  Notes  to  the  Field:  Bound  Volumes  of  the  1963  Magazines 
50  Notes  From  the  Field:  Relief  Society  Activities     Hulda  Parker 
80  Birthday  Congratulations 
The  Hoi.  •'"'*  Ou? 
37  Playtime  Recipes     Janet  W.  Breeze 
38  Ear  Huggers  Are  Nice     Shirley  Thulin 
40     Stretching  the  Food  Budget  —  Part  IV  —  Dried  Beans 
Marion  Bennion  and  Sadie  O.  Morris 
42     Delia  Gleed's  Hobby  Is  Making  Gifts 
Lessons  for  April 
57     Theology  —  Missionary  Service     Roy  W.  Doxey 
62     Visiting  Teacher  Message  —  "Wherefore,  Be  Not  Weary  in  Well-Doing" 
Christine  H.  Robinson 
64     Work  Meeting  —  Planning  the  Family  Wardrobe     Virginia  F.  Cutler 
66     Literature  —  Sinclair  Lewis,  American  Self-Satirist     Briant  S.  Jacobs