[Vol51 | January 1964 | Page 57 | Lesson | Theology — Missionary Service Roy | W. Doxey]
[their]

THEOLOGY • The Doctrine and Covenants

Lesson 55 — Missionary Service

Elder Roy W. Doxey

(Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 71, 73, 74, and 75)

For First Meeting, April 1964

Objective: To realize that the restored gospel, through the missionary program, is the key to happiness in this life and eternal joy in the life to come.

Introduction

Following the four November 1831 conferences, Oliver Cowdery and John Whitmer left for Jackson County, Missouri, in obedience to revelation. (D & C Section 69.) Joseph Smith resumed the revision of the Bible with Sidney Rigdon acting as scribe. (DHC I:238.) A month before this, Ezra Booth, mentioned in Lesson 50, Relief Society Magazine, August 1963, apostatized and set out to bring harm to the Prophet and to the Church. His efforts to do both of these apparently met with partial success. In the first instance, it was some of his efforts and his participation in mob action against the Prophet that brought physical harm to the Prophet. (DHC I:261-265.) His attack against the Church and its members was made in a series of nine letters published by the Ohio Star (Ravenna, Ohio). They consisted of slanderous denunciations and falsehoods concerning Joseph and the Church. (Section 71.)

In view of these efforts of Satan to thwart the work of the kingdom, the Prophet and Sidney were called by revelation to preach the gospel in the regions adjacent to Kirtland. (D & C 71:1-3.) An indication of the message delivered by these two missionaries on this special mission from December 1831 until the 10th of January 1832, is given in the Prophet's journal. He said it was a vindication of the cause of the Redeemer, that the day of vengeance was coming upon this generation, and that prejudice and darkness caused some to persecute the

57

JANUARY 1964

true Church. Much of the bigotry caused by the apostate's letters was allayed through this mission.

The revelation counseled these brethren to confound their enemies both in public and private, with the promise that their opponents would be shamed. (Ibid., verse 7.) It is worthy to note that when the Lord's servants are attacked, it is tantamount to attacking the Lord. (Ibid., verse 8.)

Preach the Gospel

The commandment to participate in debate was given to the Prophet because of the unusual circumstances noted above. The Lord, on the other hand, had counseled his servants to preach the first principles, to obtain the Spirit that it might convey the truth to the hearer, and thus make known the message of the dispensation. (D & C 33; 34; 42:12-17.)

An experience of the Prophet in October 1833, is an excellent example of the present counsel of the General Authorities that missionaries should not indulge in debate or argument, but they should preach the simple principles by the Spirit. While in Canada with Sidney Rigdon at the house of Freeman Nickerson's brother, the latter desired to match his Bible learning with that of the Prophet in an attempt to disprove Joseph Smith as a prophet. One night the opportunity came when Freeman Nickerson placed the Bible on the table and said, "There! Now, go to it!" The Prophet took up the challenge by telling the simple but powerful and convincing account of the restoration of the gospel. The Spirit of the Lord was so manifest in his testimony that opposition no longer remained. By the aid of Freeman's brother, meetings were held that resulted in fourteen baptisms, including the Nickerson who was determined to show the Prophet wrong. (EVANS, JOHN HENRY: Joseph Smith an American Prophet, pp. 86-88.)

Lack of Success in Opposition

The Lord's work was not destined to fail. As pointed out in an earlier lesson (Lesson 51, Relief Society Magazine, September 1963), the kingdom of God is on the earth in the form of the Church, and the Lord has planned that it shall never be destroyed nor given to another people, but it shall stand forever. (Daniel 2:44.) In Section 71, an aspect of this foreknown eventuality is given in verses 9 and 10:

Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you—there is no weapon that is formed against you shall prosper;

And if any man lift his voice against you he shall be confounded in mine own due time.

It is apparent that this assurance of defeat for those who lift their voices in opposition to the Prophet includes not only the experiences of the missionaries of 1831-32, but of any time. To speak against the Prophet of this dispensation is the same as warring against the Church which he established, and also against God.

Published opposition was not the only "weapon" used against the Prophet and the saints. Physical persecution has been a common means of attempting to thwart the purpose of the Lord. Despite the adversary's "weapons," the work of

58

LESSON DEPARTMENT

God has rolled on until today the voice of opposition is largely submerged by the prophesied, inevitable progress of successful endeavors.

Commandments Are True
Obedience to truth is the prescription for happiness here and eternal joy in the life to come. The Lord admonished the Prophet and Sidney Rigdon to keep the commandments for they are true. (D & C 71:11.) The knowledge of truth is given by the Spirit which the missionary is counseled to receive and to teach by. President Joseph F. Smith stated the importance of adhering to the truth in these words:

Our hope of salvation must be founded upon the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, for we cannot build upon error and ascend into the courts of eternal truth and enjoy the glory and exaltation of the kingdom of our God. That cannot be done (Conference Report, October 1917, page 3).

Section 73
Section 73 is one of the shortest revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants. After performing missionary work in several Ohio cities not far from Kirtland, Joseph Smith was commanded by this revelation to continue the work of revising the Bible which was interrupted by the mission call of Section 71. This was an undertaking which began in New York State and was set aside as other matters needed immediate attention. In a subsequent lesson some of the contributions of this work will be indicated. For the present, however, it should be known that many important contributions have been made to our understanding of the Bible as a result of that "translation."

An interesting expression, "gird up your loins and be sober," is found in verse 6 of Section 73. The admonition "gird up your loins" means to be prepared for a journey, or for a certain work. In this sense it is found in the hymn "Come, Come, Ye Saints." In this scripture, we are informed that it is to be understood as used by Peter, "Gird up the loins of your minds" (I Peter 1:13). In other words, the mind should be free from those things which deter one from the work at hand. To be sober means to be of a serious mind. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 431.)

Section 75 — Introduction
At the conclusion of a conference held in Amherst, Ohio, a number of the elders asked the Prophet to inquire of the Lord concerning their specific duties in bringing people to a sense of their condition. In recording this fact the Prophet quoted a scripture that emphasizes that everyone sins and, therefore, is in need of repentance. (D & C 33:4; DHC 1:242-243.)

The opening verses of Section 75 may be applied to the thousands of missionaries of this dispensation. In these five verses the missionary is commissioned to proclaim the Lord's gospel in earnestness, eschewing idleness, and to be mighty in that proclamation. The earnest missionary's message should be delivered as the sound of a trumpet. This expression alludes to the sounds of this instrument that can be heard far and wide with mighty blasts.

59

JANUARY 1964

Such an allusion seems to carry with it the importance of the message since it is to be made known without shame or diffidence on the part of the Lord's servant. The following testimony of President Brigham Young is typical of those who have received the truth and made it a part of their lives:

When I first commenced preaching, I made up my mind to declare the things that I understood, fearless of friends and foes, and regardless of caresses. They were nothing to me, for it was my duty to rise before a congregation of strangers and say that the Lord lives, that He has revealed Himself in this our day, that He has given to us a Prophet, and brought forth the new and everlasting covenant for the restoration of Israel, and if that was all I could say, I must be just as satisfied as though I could get up and talk for hours. . . .

With regard to preaching, let a man present himself before the Saints, or go into the world before the nobles and great men of the earth, and let him stand up full of the Holy Ghost, full of the power of God, and though he may use words and sentences in an awkward style, he will convince and convert more, of the truth, than can the most polished orator destitute of the Holy Ghost; for that Spirit will prepare the minds of the people to receive the truth, and the spirit of the speaker will influence the hearers so that they will feel it (Journal of Discourses 4:21).

Missionaries are promised by the Lord that if they labor faithfully, they "shall be laden with many sheaves, and crowned with honor, and glory, and immortality, and eternal life" (D & C 75:5).

Missionary Assignments
Section 75 contains many missionary assignments. (D & C 75:6-17, 30-36.) The names of some of these elders are well known in our history, such as Orson Hyde, Orson Pratt, Hyrum Smith, and others, but some are mentioned about whom little is known. This does not mean, however, that their labors were not as acceptable to the Lord nor that their reward will not be as great as the well-known. The promise of eternal glory is for all the faithful, whether apostle or elder. Each will be judged by his performance in accordance with his opportunities for service. (On pages 415-440 of the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary will be found biographical sketches of the elders referred to in Section 75.)

How should these elders find success in their missionary labors? This was the question which they desired the Prophet to ask of the Lord. The answer was that they should pray to the Lord that he might give the Comforter which would teach the things that were necessary for them to have. (D & C 75:10-11.)

This is the way of the true missionary. Circumstances vary due to the area, people, and the particular circumstances at the moment of contacting the prospective investigator. Divine guidance is the answer in all of these cases; nonetheless, the missionary is to study the people and the culture. The key to receiving the benefits of the Holy Ghost is prayer. The Lord does not give if the person does not knock. The missionary is given the promise that through his faithfulness the Lord will be with him to the end. (Ibid., verses 13-14.) Others are told that by their faithfulness they shall overcome all things, resulting in their being lifted up at the last day. (Ibid., verse 16.) These promises enforce the truth that constancy and

60

LESSON DEPARTMENT

devotion to duty are the keys to receiving eternal life, or exaltation. President Anthon H. Lund said: "Our religion is one in which we are called upon to show our faith by our works." As an example of this truism, missionary calls made upon the Church membership are most appropriate. The question as to how much pay will be received for this service is far from the mind of the Latter-day Saint. The impelling motive is one of duty all; the glorious message of the gospel may be shared with others. Distance or place is not a consideration, but rather it is, "I'll go where you want me to go, dear Lord."

Missionary Procedures

In missionary language, the "going from house to house" is known as "tracting." (D & C 75:18.) When the missionary is received into a house, he is counseled to leave his blessing with that house. (Ibid., verse 19.) The gospel is the blessing, although the prayer in the home for the benefit of the host is a direct way in which this counsel may be followed.

The missionaries in the day of judgment will be judges of the houses that reject them, and it will be more tolerable for the heathen in that day than for those who rejected them. (D & C 75:21-22.) As President John Taylor has pointed out, judgment, under God, is committed to Christ; then to the Twelve Apostles; and then to the saints, including certain officers in the Priesthood. (Mediation and Atonement, Chapter 22.) President Charles W. Penrose said:

... The great judgment that is to come will not be altogether performed by one individual sitting upon a great white throne and passing judgment upon millions upon millions of the earth's inhabitants. God's house is a house of order, and the Lord will have agents appointed as he has now behind the veil as well as in the flesh, and when the great judgment comes, all will be judged according to their works, and the books will be opened, and the book of Life will be scanned and the man's acts and the women's acts upon the earth will be disclosed, and we will all confess in our souls that the judgment is just and righteous, because it will be uttered and delivered by one having authority and the seal of God will be upon it. (Conference Report, October 1916, page 24).

Another testimony to this effect is given in the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 440.

The idea that it will be more tolerable for the heathen in the day of judgment than for those who reject the gospel, suggests that since the heathen will be assigned to the terrestrial kingdom (D & C 45:54; 76:72), the willfully corrupt may be in a lesser kingdom. Unless the missionary does his work faithfully, he may be accused by those whom he neglected. (Ibid., 43:19-20.)

Assist in the Work

The members of the Church in 1832 were placed under the responsibility of assisting the families of the missionaries who could not sustain them. (Ibid., 75:24-25.) In case there were some who could not go on missions they should provide for their families and "would in nowise lose his [their] crown." However, they were admonished to labor in the Church. (Ibid., verse 28.) Activity in the kingdom is an essential in obtaining the blessings of heaven.

61

JANUARY 1964

In keeping with the commandment to provide for one's family, the virtue of industry is demanded. Idleness is a sin. There is always something for the person to do in the Church; there is always opportunity to improve one's mind by study; idleness means neglect and waste, both of which are opposed to the spirit and letter of the gospel. (Ibid., verse 29.)

Section 74 — Background
While translating the Bible, a question was raised about one of Paul's statements concerning an aspect of marriage relations. Section 74 is an interpretation of I Corinthians 7:14. It appears that in the Corinth Branch of the Church there arose the question of whether or not the convert should leave the nonmember husband or wife. Paul's counsel was that this should not be done because a sanctifying effect was brought into the home by the member of the Church. It was maintained by some that if the wife should leave her husband because of his not being a member, she should also leave the children. Paul

declared against such a doctrine, which brings us to the real message of the Section — "little children are holy, being sanctified through the atonement of Jesus Christ" (Ibid., 74:7).

This passage and others in our modern books of scripture (Ibid., 29:46-48) have cleared away some of the false doctrines that grew up during the period of apostasy regarding the salvation of little children. By revelation to Joseph Smith, children who die before the age of accountability — eight years — are saved in the celestial kingdom through the atonement of Jesus Christ. (Lesson 20, Relief Society Magazine, October 1959.)

Questions for Discussion
1. Explain: "There is no weapon that is formed against you that shall prosper."
2. Discuss: Truth will triumph, and it must be lived for one to receive eternal life.
3. Define the gospel as the power of God unto salvation.
4. Why is it necessary for the missionary to seek divine guidance in his work?
5. What responsibility is attached to the missionary work?

VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE

Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants

Message 55 — "Wherefore, Be
