VOL. 5.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1876.		No. 14.


THE CHILDREN'S CHRISTMAS.

	Don't forget the children, "Santa,"
		Come with baskets round and large,
	With no thought of feeling scanty
		O'er the gifts you keep in charge:
	Picture-books and dolls and dishes.
		Quiet horse and gentle dove,
	Tops and knives and dogs and fishes,
		You know what the children love.

	Don't yo[-] talk of wages meager,
		Not a dollar or a dime—
	You were once a child as eager
		For the coming Christmas time;
	Dear old Christmas rule! don't break it—
		You are not obliged to buy!
	Think of something, earn or make it,
		You can do so if you try.

	When I was a tiny maiden,
		Don't I know how glad I was,
	When I found my stockings laden
		With the gifts of "Santa Claus?"
	Then some hints of hard times taught us
		Never to complain a word,
	For we knew he always brought us
		Just the best he could afford.

	Once a home-made ball for brother,
		Buckskin cover, neat and strong;
	("Santa" knew how much our mother
		Deemed to slight the children wrong.")
	Candy birds from beet molasses.
		Ah! we thought them extra nice:—
	Fairy childhood! how it passes,
		Once forever, never twice.

	Youth is but a narrow isthmns,
		Linking infancy with age—
	Let the young folks have their Christmas,
		Bright as any pictured page.
	Older folks can reason better,
		If they crosses have to bear:
	Never, never be a debtor
		To the child that's in your care!

	Ere another year has found us,
		When such tokens may be giv'n,
	Thousands of the darlings' round us,
		May have joined the hosts in Heav'n;
	Thousands more will then be with us,
		Entering life's uncertain track;
	But their presence cannot give us,
		One departed darling back.

	Do without the roasted turkey,
		Things more costly or less dear;
	Though the sky be fair or murky,
		Keep the children's spirits clear:
	Fill up every little stocking
		Let it be a merry day;
	With your "lambs" about you f[---]king,
		Bless them, "Santa," while you may.
										LULA.
S. L. City, Dec; 13, 1876.


[Column 1]
						For the Exponent.
		DESULTORY THOUGHTS.

	Ambition is certainly a laudable passion,
when rightly cultivated and controlled, and
little is accomplished without it. Many
persons mistake, or misunderstand those
who possess it, and call them proud. Many
persons pass for being very humble when
in fact true humility does not not belong to
them; so much are we apt to misjudge our
fellow creatures. The TRULY ambitious
are alone the truly great, and such are ever
the truly humble. We see this beautifully
illustrated in the character of Esther. She
was ambitious that her kindred shonld not
become the outcasts of Israel through the
mean jealousy of a bad man, and set herself
to work to bring about their deliverance;
she fasted and prayed and commanded all

[Column 2]
her people to do the same. In order to at-
tain her aim, she had to break an impera-
tive law of the king, her husband; kings
were absolute monarchs in those days, their
whims and their words were alone the law.
Read her history, and see how beautiful
and touching is her humility, which em-
bodies strong faith in the God of her fath-
ers; her ambition and humility are both
conspicuous and harmoniously blended; and
her devotion to her cause is that of a mar-
tyr. After I have done all I can "If I per-
ish I perish!"
	It is in vain to look for a really noble char-
acter, without a fruitful and cultivated mind,
which probably "the schools" have nothing,
or very little, to do with. The foundation
must be laid in early life—yes indeed even
in the anti-natal stage of our existence, by
her who bears to us the noble name of
MOTHER, and all this is done in such mi-
nute processes that no language could por-
tray, or pen delineate; truly it is the un-
written philosophy of a life! Like the an-
cient Jewish code it is oral, or voice without
sound! O woman! thou little dreamest of
thy power for good, or for evil! Thou main
spring of a world mental, moral and corpo-
real! Molded, and fashioned, and endowed
by thy Father—God! A veil has been over
thy mental vision, and the glory that be-
longs to thee has been hid from thine eyes!
Awake from the weak and frivolous dreams
of many centuries! Awake to the glorious
realities of the present! When the gospel
light is beaming on those who have obeyed
and live to its precepts; and when the rev-
elations of heaven are for us and for our
children!
	Sacred and profane history show us noble
women; from Palestine, from Rome, Greece,
yes, every country has had its model, its
representative women, and they stand as
exemplars to all who live on the earth to-
day! What constitutes greatness? Virtue
and righteousness with all the refinement
they ever bring. Did not the ancient no-
ble women give to their conntry a race of
noble sons? Did they not rear and nurture
them to fill high and commanding stations?
Was not their ambition shown and exem-
plified in those living oracles? Did they
not exhibit their own cultivation by their
self-controlling power, often the perfect ab-
negation of self—and demonstrated they
were worthy and understood the art of
training children for Time and Eternity?
Their pride was shown when like Cornelia
they presented their children before the
vain and frivolous devotee of fashion, hung
in chains of gold and studded with bril-
liants, and in the brief but full-meaning lan-
guage of truth from a mother's heart said
"These are my jewels!" Such a woman
was fit to be the "mother" of the Gracchi,"
the Scipios, the Catos, and others of like
notoriety! I think I may assert without
fear of contradiction, that few men have
ever been truly great unless they had a
mother who sowed the germs of greatness
in their infant minds. Many great men
have borne noble testimony to their moth-
er's training—set her on the highest pinna-
cle they could place her; Napoleon, Lamar-
tine, Bulwer, and a host of such like men
has each exalted his mother as a peeress
among women.
	I do not want to see woman step out of
her sphere—that would be ridiculous—her
sphere is so large she has no need to tran-
scend or get beyond its bounds. Let her not
fear the sarcasms of those who have never
studied the matter, but let her illustrate
Miss Edgeworth's beautiful and expressive
Epitome of a Woman's Mind—or rather
what it should exhibit—"That the tide of
learning had passed over it by its general
fertility." Now let me sing a little, I have
no time for precision.

	Oh! Woman! woman "know thyself,"
		And know thy mission, too—
	Thou camest from thy Maker's hand
		A mighty work to do!

	A ministering angel, thou
		Wert sent to man to be,
	As wife, as sister, and as friend,
		A work devolves on thee!

	The mother of his children be,
		The co-mate of his care,
	In sorrow cheer, in danger rouse
		And save him from despair.

	Thou canst uphold and comfort him,
		In virtue urge him on;
	Thy love should be his rich reward,
		Thy faithfulness, his song.

	In prosperous days his greatest wealth,
		In triumph's joyous hour
	His fairest laurel thou shalt be,
		By Love's almighty power.

	Oh! may our Father, thine and mine,
		Send wisdom from above,
	That we in honor may fulfill
		The mission of His love!
						HANNAH T. KING.
S. L. City, Dec., 1876.


FEMALE DELICACY.

	Above all other features which adorn the
female character, delicacy stands foremost,
within the provisions of good taste. Not
that delicacy which is always in quest of
something to be ashamed of; which makes
merit blush, and simpers at the false con-
struction her ingenuity has placed upon an
innocent remark—this spurious kind of
delicacy is far from good sense—but that
high minded delicacy which maintains its
undeviating walk among women and the
society of men; which shrinks from no nec-
essary duty, and can speak, when required,
with seriousness and kindness of things on
which it would be ashamed to smile or
blush; that delicacy which knows how to
confer a benefit without wounding the feel-
ings of another—which gives alms withont
assumption, and pains not the most suscep-
tible being in creation.


Z. C. M. I. has a most elaborate display of
fancy goods and toys, groceries and confec-
tionary. They have quantities of all these
articles sufficient to supply the demands of
the country merchants. There is every
size and quality of doll, dressed and un-
dressed, from the queen doll—an elegant
wax figure with real golden hair—down to
the tiniest specimen possible. The newest
and rarest articles are John Gilpin on his
horse in his wonderful ride to London, cap-
able of twenty-four different changes, and a
petite gymnast performing on the horizon-
tal bar, going through all the different atti-
tudes and positions when wound up with a
crank.


106		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
Saturday, Nov. 25, was one of special in-
terest to all who are interested in the ad-
vancment and progression of WOMAN.
Counselor E. R. Snow presided, and after
the general exercises she addressed the au-
dience in her able and earnest manner.
She contrasted the position of the sisters
now, with what it was ten years ago, and
expressed her gratitude at the change which
had been effected, and gave much excellent
counsel; her words were "as apples of gold
set in pictures of silver." Counselors Zina
D. Young and Bathsheba W. Smith, and
Mrs. E. B. Wells each expressed their feel-
ings in regard to the labors to be performed
by the sisters, and exhorted all present to
diligence. They also gave their views upon
the Grain Movement and the Woman's
Book. Some other sisters bore similar tes-
timonies. Elder Junius F. Wells then ad-
dressed the sisters for a few minutes. He
related some incidents that had come under
his observation while upon his mission, and
congratulated the sisters upon the superi-
ority of their knowledge, and their favor-
able condition viewed through the under-
standing they have of the Gospel. He bore
a strong testimony to the truth of the Gospel
revealed in this "the last dispensation of
the fulness of times."

	MORONI, SANPETE Co., Nov. 29, 1876.

EDITORS' EXPONENT:

	We held our annual meeting on the 20th
of this month. A good spirit prevailed
among the sisters and all of us are willing
to carry out the counsel of President Young
in regard to storing up grain. We have
commenced already to purchase the staff of
life while we can get it at a low figure.
Bishop Bradley has kindly lent us a gran-
ary to keep the grain in until our good
brethren can build us one. He has also ta-
ken  vote of the brethren that the pro-
ceeds of all the parties during the winter
shall be appropriated for the benefit of our
society; it was unanimously carried. We
as a society desire by the help of our Fath-
er in heaven to exert all our energies to se-
cure the precious grain that will be a tem-
poral salvation to us and our little ones.
Our Savior has said that nation shall rise
against nation, and kingdom against king-
dom; and there shall be famine and pesti-
lence in the last days; also those holding
the priesth[--]d of God in our day, declare
that it is even at our doors: and the time is
near when those who have persecuted us
for righteousness sake will come bending to
our feet, a[-]king us to give them bread that
will preserve life lest they starve with hun-
ger.
	Dear sisters let us be faithful stewards
over what the Lord has put in our hands, and
not give our "children's bread to dogs;"
and if we are "faithful over a few things,
the Lord will make us ruler over many."
	Ever feeling desirous for the welfare of
Zion, and the promotion of truth, I remain
	Your sister in the Gospel,
						JANE BAILEY.

				HILLSDALE, Nov. 15, 1876.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Perhaps there would be no harm in tell-
ing you how we are getting along in this
little village as a branch of the Lord's
church, and a few of my thoughts. We
have no Relief Society here yet, but the

[Column 2]
young folks' Mutual Improvement Associ-
ation is alive, and there seems to be a de-
sire for improvement in our midst, and to
march along with the kingdom; yet in my
experience I have seen it necessary that
every individual, before doing any good in
this kingdom, must humble themselves be-
fore their Maker, acknowledge their un-
worthiness without His guidance and help,
and it seems to me that unless we have the
Spirit of Christ to guide us in our thoughts,
words and actions, we are of no more use
than the moth or worm. But if we seek to
imitate His life we will know of His doc-
trine. And may we as sisters seek to be
guided by Him that we may help to bring
about peace, union and love is the prayer
of your Sister &c.,
					JULIA D. WILSON.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

				SALINA, Nov. 24th, 1876.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I take the privilege of conveying a few
lines to you. It seems presumption in me
to assume to write to a paper, especially the
EXPONENT with its sea of intelligence. I
cannot help but notice the growth of the
sisters intellectually, from reading that pa-
per; it does one good to read it, and I re-
flect, who would do without it, were it pos-
sible to be obtained, or who would deny its
privileges? I feel, this morning, to greatly
rejoice, yea! in the spirit of testimony; this
is what compels me to write. I can bear
testimony that we have a man at the head
of this church (even President Young) who
is inspired by the Holy Ghost and is watch-
ing over this church for good, and gives us
line upon line in the due season thereof.
Now the word has come to the sisters from
our living Head to save the grain, I know
for myself he is dictated by the spirit of
God. He has called upon the Elders for
many years to lay up grain. Have they
obeyed this counsel? They can answer for
themselves I shall not condemn them.
Then sisters, mothers in Israel shall we look
up on this thing lightly and count it but a
puff of wind? O no! we will go at this
work with all our might, mind and strength,
praying God to prosper our labors. There
is a grand speculation in this, which will re-
sult in blessings upon us, our children, and
friends, even those that may be afar off.
We remember our respected Brother Kim-
ball, he said the time would come when a
barrel of flour would be worth a barrel of
gold, and I believe it, and many other
prophecies made by him.
	Now sisters, I believe that the time is
nigh at hand, when the Lord will visit His
people, some in blessings, some in scourg-
ings; those who have been wise virgins
and have oil in their lamps will be prepared
to meet the emergencies. Now is the time
to arouse ourselves and awake and trim our
lamps and keep them burning. There is
plenty of oil within our reach, it is flowing
through the land in abundance. If we are
the children of Joseph through the loins of
Ephraim, shan't we then, like our father do
the same work? He laid up grain to save
all Egypt and his father's house.
	The sisters of Selina have already com-
menced the work, and our Bishop has very
kindly offered us a place in the United Or-
der Store-house to store away our grain;
which we have gladly accepted. I see no
need of being discouraged in this matter.
If we are but the despised women of Utah,
we will yet show to the world that we live
in the Gospel light, and will protect our-


selves and not be caught unawares. Where
do the queens and great women of the
world receive revelation from, to prepare
them for the calamities that are coming up-
on the earth?
	Sisters let us be humble, prayerful and
thankful for the things we do enjoy; for
prophets and apostles, and for the privilege
given us, to lay up grain for our temporal
salvation.
		I remain your loving sister,
			CATHERINE FAHY MARTIN.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Sauce for Dressing.—Two eggs, one half cup
of sugar, butter the size of an egg, four table-
spoonfuls of boiling water. Flavor with wine or
brandy.
	English Pudding.—One cup of chopped suet,
one cup of chopped raisins, one cup of molasses,
one cup of sweet milk, five cups of flour, one tea-
spoonful of soda. Steam three hours.
	Celery Slaw.—One-half head of cabbage, the
tender part of one bunch of celery, two hard
boiled eggs, all chopped fine, mix with it two tea-
spoonfuls of sugar, two of mustard, one half tea-
spoonful of salt and pepper. Moisten with vine-
gar. 
	To Cook Celery.—The outside leaf stalks of
celery may be utilized, and a very savory dish
made by cutting them in small pieces, and boiling
in salted water until tender. Then turn off the
water and add milk, butter, and flour enough to
form a thick gravy. Serve hot.—Mrs. Rustic. 
	Horse-Radish Sauce for Roast Beef.—Mix
four table spoonfuls of grated horse-radish with
one teaspoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt,
one-half teaspoonful of pepper, two teaspoonfuls of
made mustard. Mix thoroughly. Then, moisten
with sufficient vinegar to give it the consistency
of cream. Add four tablespoonful of thick
cream. Heat (not boil) it, for hot roast beef, and
for cold meat serve the sauce without heating.
	Piccalilli.—In answer to request of "Young
Housekeeper," I send the following recipe: For
one gallon of sliced, green tomatoes, (salted and
drained) take one quart of cider vinegar, one
pound of sugar, one tablespoonful each of mustard,
cloves, and sweet fennel seed. Place all in a por-
celain kettle over the fire, until the tomatoes are
cooked tender; then drain them out, and boil the
syrup down till just enough remains to cover them,
they do not need sealing. Onions may be added
if liked.—Mc.
	Bread Making.—At night take luke-warm wa-
ter, according to the quantity of bread required,
and stir in flour until it is about right for pan-
cakes, then stir in a tea-cup of lively yeast, cover
it and set in a moderately warm place to rise. In
the morning it will be light. Then mix up hard,
kneading it well. Return the bread to the pan
and let it rise, when light mold it down, repeat-
ing this three times. Then make into loaves and
when sufficiently light, bake carefully. Good
dough may be spoiled in the oven, by too hot or
too slack a fire. The molding-down process may
seem like too much trouble, but it is not in prac-
tice. The addition of some warm milk, when the
bread is mixed up hard, makes it whiter and
more tender, but it also dries up sooner. The
season makes some difference about the trouble of
making bread, as in winter it is harder to keep the
sponge of the right temperature. One of the
best bread makers I know, uses a small tin pail
to mix her sponge in and then hangs the pail
from a wire over the stove, which keeps it warm
and makes the rising speedy. In very cold
weather it is best to mix sponge in the morning,
unless one has a house that keeps moderately
warm through the night.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		107


HIGHER.

Higher—'tis lisped by the little one
Whose earthly journey is just begun,
While his eager hands are stretched above,
And bright eyes plead with looks of love,

To mamma or to sister dear
To lift him to the window near,
That out his restless eye may look
On bird and sky and running brook.

He's burst the cradle's love-linked chain,
And gained the floor—the baby's plain;
Explores the same, then mounts on high,
And fain would reach the azure sky.

Higher—'tis now the schoolboy's cry,
And comrades are all passed swiftly by;
How wide and fair is the prospect now,
As he gains the mountain's lofty brow.

He can see where the brook flows on, away,
That he loved when a little child at play.
He has climbed far up towards the azure sky,
Where he watched the white clouds sailing by,

And he feels as he stands on this airy height,
And drinks at the fountain sparkling bright,
A joy so pure his soul within,
The monarch would give his crown to win.

Higher—'tis breathed in the midnight hour,
By one of thought from the student's bower;
He would grasp all that science and art can give,
He would win for himself a name to live.

Wisdom and knowledge must yield their store,
And the soul still pants for more, still more;
For higher to soar in the realms of thought,
The loftiest prize most eagerly sought.

Thus spirits immortal can ne'er be at rest,
'Till they hold in their grasp the purest and best,
Until highest they stand in that ransomed band,
And join in the joys of our Fatherland.

Then higher—be ever our watchword and aim,
God and the right let us ever maintain;
Shrink not, nor falter, be fearless and bold,
And press on—it will lead to the City of Gold.

										HOPE.


[Column 1]
			CORRESPONDENCE.

EDITORS EXPONENT:

	I am hardly vain enough to think that
any one else but myself, and perhaps your-
self has noticed how long it is since any of
my scribbles have found their way to your
valuable little paper. But I should most
assuredly have written long enough ago
had not the destroying angel cast his dark
shadow across our happy threshold. But
thank God, through the administrations of
the priesthood, his hand has been lessened
and we are almost free from his presence.
Every one of [--] our little family has felt
his power, and my babe is still quite weak
and low. Excuse me for taking up so much
space in talking of my own affairs; but I felt
it my duty to explain my seeming neglect
of promise.
	In accordance with the promise in my
last letter I will endeavor to give your read-
ers a faint idea of the grandeur and beauty
of the greatest curiosity in U. T., viz., the
Temple in this city.
	Perhaps it would be well to give some
idea of St. George, its surrounding, and its
principal buildings. We will fancy that in
traveling here, we reach Washington about
5 o'clock p. m., where we stop a few mo-
ments to water the thirsty animals and take
a look at the Factory. Then onward we
proceed, riding due west; passing through
Middletown, going over rough, rocky dug-
ways, and sandy bottoms, until about half a
mile of the city; when suddenly wheeling,
we ride directly south for another quarter
of a mile. All this while we have not had
a glimpse of the city, although we have
seen for some moments past the green fields
at the southern end of the valley, with the
Rio Virgin lazily wending its way from
east to west in the center of the fields.

[Column 2]
Thumping over rocks, dragging through
the sand—we see just ahead, a little hill
aronnd which the road winds, then swing
round the little bluff facing directly west
once more, when, Presto! Here you are,
within a few rods of the much talked
of city of St. George. Stop the horses
a moment, and give us time to look at
this beautiful little city; remember we
are at the north-eastern extremity of the
valley, with the settlement directly facing
us.  (In the north is a line of red-sand hills,
terminating at the north-western extremity
of the valley by a picturesque, perpendicu-
lar cliff. There is a pass here, through
which we go to Santa Clara, Pine Valley,
and other adjoining settlements. On the
west is a line of black hills, the duplicate
of which comprises the eastern boundary;
while on the south, the eye is relieved by a
glimpse of blue, old fashioned mountains.
This is quite a small valley, being but two
miles square. The attention is then at-
tracted from these uninteresting hills and
mountains to the fair loveliness of the pure
white Temple, contrasted as it is with the
green foliage of the city, the red sand of
the valley, and the deep blue of the even-
ing sky. One pearly cloud is sailing over-
head, while the evening sun is casting its
farewell beams upon the white dome; we
might fancy, that in the stream of mellow,
golden light, we see angel forms flitting to
and fro from their heavenly dwelling-place,
to this, their Master's House on earth; and
we are almost sure, that, in the calm, still,
evening air, we hear angel voices chanting
praises to Almighty God for His infinite
goodness and mercy.
	We are reminded by the sun dropping
out of sight, behind the black ridge, it is
time to drive into town. We can but no-
tice however, as we pass along, that St.
George is cozily nestled right up against
the red hills, forming the valley boundary
on the north, in fact some houses are creep-
ing up the hills. We are quite tired now,
and fully appreciate the hearty welcome we
are sure to receive from the hospitable
brethren and sisters of this goodly city.
	Next morning, anxious to get a nearer
view of the noble edifice that stirs such
indescribable feelings within the breast.
We are rather surprised to see so substantial
and fine looking buildings "way down in
Dixie." However we spend little time in
speculating on it, but wend our way to the
Temple Block. Riding south on the prin-
cipal street, we pass on the right, the St.
George Hall, Telegraph Office, Co-op Store,
Bakery and Tithing Office; on the corner of
the next block we see the Tabernacle,
which, permit me to say, with the excep-
tion of the Temple, is the finest building
in the Territory. This building together
with the rest of the public buildings in this
little city, are built of red sand-stone and
present a very beautiful appearance. The
tabernacle faces east, and at that end has a
square tower on which rests a tall, graceful
spire; as we look down the street going
west, the sign of one of our old friends,
swinging lazily in the wind, announces that
Dr. A. B. Dunford is following his profess-
ion of Dentistry. On the street looking east,
is the Post Office. Going a little west of
south, there is nothing worthy of special
mention, except perhaps, that the people, as
an almost universal rule, build story and a
half houses, instead of raising them a lit-
tle higher and making them habitable,
which would cost but a trifle more.
	About ten minutes ride finds us on the
open space surrounding the Temple. If we
were charmed with its beauty at night, we
are awed by its grandeur in the day. Un

[Column 3]
der the shadow of its massive walls we feel
a[-] though we are in the presence of some-
thing so holy and sacred that our tongue
represses its utterance. We are incapa-
ble almost of thinking. We can only feel
ourself an atom in the greatness of the
presence that overshadows these walls.
	The main entrance faces east. There are
two, one on each side of the tower. The
steps are made of red sand-stone, each step
being one massive rock. They are wide
and sweeping, and give the building a free,
noble look. The buttresses between each
window, the parapets on top, and the large
tower at the eastern end, add more to the
picturesqueness and grandeur of the build-
ing than can well be imagined. It is built
of red sand stone, (the foundation of black
rock) and is plastered over with a clear
white. It stands on a rising swell in the
center of the valley. The tower is sur-
mounted with an octagon dome. The win-
dows are 12 ft. high on the first floor, above
these are circular windows about 3[-] ft.
square. Still above these are another row
of long windows, the same heighth as the
lower ones, and crowning these, comes an-
other row of circular windows. There are
two main halls 27 ft. high and 99 x 78 ft.
across. On each side of the arching roof
above the main rooms are eight rooms on
each side, 32 rooms in all. The main stair-
ways are in the north-east and south-east
towers and are circular, also several private
stairways connecting the different floors.
There is a cistern under the main tower
which will contain when full, 12,550 gal-
lons of water. There are three square rooms
in the main tower, which are perhaps in-
tended for vestry rooms. The rooms are all
beautifully finished off with plaster of paris
cornices and centre-pieces, (some of the fin-
est work in the western country.) The
whole of the wood work is painted a spot-
less white. The doors in the outer courts,
leading into the separate rooms are chaste
and elegant; no flashy carving, but all fin-
ished off with the nicest skill. Altogether
it has a simple yet grand, quiet but impos-
ing appearance, that is quite in keeping
with the purpose for which it has been de-
signed. Passing out we can but reflect that
it looks like a fair pure bride, almost ready
to receive the crowning presence of her
Lord.
	The feelings that have been awakened in
the heart are too profound for expression;
and we go from the edifice with the holiest
emotions, determined to live a purer, better
life.
	In another letter I will try to give a de-
scription of the famous Johnson Gardens,
and other principal objects of interest here.
	Remembering myself to my friends in
Salt Lake, I will close; ever praying for the
success of the EXPONE[-]T. I am,
			Yours respectfully,
							S. Y. D.


A GENERIC DIFFERENCE.—School girls
out for a walk: 1st schoolgirl—"I am so
tired of walking along by two and two in
this way; it's as bad as the animals that
went into the Ark." 2nd school girl—"It's
worse, for half of them were masculines."
	FOR DOCTORS.—"Massa, can you tell me
de fust ting a doctor does when he goes to
see a sick man?"
	"Why he looks at his tongue, of course."
	"And can a doctor tell what's de matter
wid de man by looking at his tongue?"
	"Of course he can."
	"Den I want a doctor."
	"Are you unwell, sir?"
	"No, but I have got a wagon dat got
someting de matter wid it, and de wagon
is got a tongue.


108		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,			} Editors.
[--]MELINE B. WELLS.				}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY. DEC. 15, 1876.


UNITED WE STAND, DIVIDED
				WE FALL.

	If this saying, so oft repeated and so often
verified in many instances which come under
general observation, is applicable to the condi-
tion of the government of the United States at
the present time, then surely it is bound to
fall. It is apparently so equally divided that
the majority cannot be determined upon with-
out introducing some new experimental meas-
ures. Experiments in many cases are in-
jurious and injudicious. In testing govern-
ments, it seems to us they would be peculiarly
so. A government that cannot be maintained
in an emergency in and of itself will scarcely
be improved by new measures.
	The President's Message seems most indiffer-
ently and unsatisfactorily worded, and the re-
ports from different sources, though conflicting,
still lead to one strong conclusion in the minds
of the people, that is, that this stupendous
fabric, the glorious constitution, is about to be
crushed in the great collision of the two politi-
cal parties. Telegrams say South Carolina has
two houses and two governors. Is the United
States to have two houses and two Presidents?
If they could only look consistently at the
final result of such immoderate language as
they are using towards each other, they could
see how it would stir up strife, and strife wag-
eth war.
	"The fathers have eaten sour grapes and the
children's teeth are set on edge;" this applies
admirably to the present national condition;
they have gone on corrupting public offices,
trespassing upon the peoples rights, commit-
ting governmental frauds, until it is no longer
bearable, and each party wants to implicate
the other, and as in thousands of other cases so
in this, one story is good till the other is told,
and when you hear both sides you wonder how
Congress and the House of Representatives
have sustained their position at all on such
hypocritical and unsubstantial BASING. In
contemplation of the present and future it be-
hooves the Latter-day Saints to look well to
themselves, and put their trust in the arm
that is powerful to save, and if in any possible
way they can avoid being party to any of the
schemes for ruining and overthrowing the
government, then are they favored of the Lord,
for surely the Lord has said judgments will
come, but wo unto him by whom they come.
"Let him laugh who wins," the saints can af-
ford to wait, and in the intervals of peace and
plenty prepare wisely for the day of trouble
and scarcity. Seek diligently unto the Lord
to be taught in His ways lest any be led astray
and partake of the plagues and scourges pro-
nounced upon the ungodly.
		[handwritten] E. B. Wells.


WOMEN'S COMMISSION HOUSE.

	This house established recently upon a self-
sustaining principle, without capital, for the
sale of home products and manufactures, thus
giving encouragement and further promoting
facilities for home industries, ought to receive
the patronage of every person who has the
best interests of Zion at heart. It is one of
the noblest schemes ever devised and those who
are laboring so diligently to establish it should
receive the most hearty commendation. It is
an enterprise which will be the nucleus of a
great culminating system of financiering with-
in the Territory. Many hands make labor
light, and union is strength. Then let the wo-
men of Utah prove to the world by their unit-
ed co-operation in this and other matters that
they are equal to any enterprise they may un-
dertake.
	The Woman's Store recently received a beau-
tiful assortment of artificial flowers suitable
for hats, bonnets, head dresses caps etc. The
patronage of the ladies of Utah and their in-
fluence is solicited for the Woman's Commis-
sion House. Ladies please call and examine,
see what Utah is capable of producing at home.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	CHRISTMAS IS coming, and in anticipation of
its arrival the indefatigable Mr. James Dwyer,
whose efforts to cater to the tastes of the citi-
zens and children of Salt Lake City, have
hitherto been so eminently successful, has open-
ed his holiday stock of goods making the most
brilliant and elaborate display of his style of
goods which has ever been made in this city,
in honor probably of the Centennial Christ-
mas of America. On the evening of the open-
ing Dec. 11, the store and side-walk in front of
it were crowded so that it was almost impossi-
ble to obtain egrees. He has a full stock of all
the standard poets, novelists and historians,
and works upon science and art. He has also
many choice works upon all subjects, and a
full supply of the school books now in use;
every variety of paper pencils etc. Russian
leather goods of all descriptions and beautiful
designs. Perforated card board with or with-
out stamping. Ladies' fine cutlery, elegant
card cases, writing desks and work-boxes of
nearly every variety from the most elegant,
down to the plainest workmanship. In short,
he has got in his assortment any and every
article of fancy goods suitable for Holiday
gifts. Go and examine for yourself and you
will be sure to find something suited to your
taste and resources.


OBITUARY.

	The many friends of Sister CAROLINE
AUGUSTA JACKSON, of St. George, will be
pained to hear of her death, which occurred at
half past seven o'clock on the morning of the
7th inst., in that city, of pneumonia.
	Sister Jackson was born at Hampton, N. H,
and was aged 50 years, 4 months, and 23 days.
She embraced the gospel of Jesus Christ at the
age of 17 years, leaving her father's house as
the cost, and in February 1864, embarked upon
the ship Brooklyn, with her husband and in-
fant daughter, arriving in California six
months later, to endure the terrors of war and
famine for many months. Enriched by the
gold discovery she gave liberally to the poor,
and kept for twenty years open house for the
traveling Elders of the Church. She collected
sixty children made orphans by cholera, and
bore their entire expenses for six months,


meanwhile exerting her influence successfully
toward the foundation of the still existing
Protestant Orphan Asylum in San Francisco,
and was one of the first board of managers."
	During Buchanan's administration, Col.
(then), Thomas Kane passed through San Ber-
nardino, Gal., and was searched for by a mob
who divined him and his mission; she render-
ed him such service that he ever after held her
in devoted remembrance, and when, four win-
ters ago he met herself and husband in St.
George, his tears, rather than his words, ex-
pressed his emotions.
	The evening before he left St. George, he
called late to bid her good-bye. She went with
him to the door; the night was dark, windy,
and raining. She gave him her shawl, which
he wrapped around him: Extending his hand,
he said, "this night is like the political horizon.
Stay you in camp, eat roast beef and rest; I
will go in the storm, and stand on picket guard
for you" Good-bye, thrice repeated, and he
was gone into the dark night.
	After her arrival in Utah she settled in St.
George, and was the first Treasurer of the St.
George Relief Society, and afterward appoint-
ed Secretary. She was an agent for the EX-
PONENT in that city.
	Her name had been mentioned as one of the
sisters to labor in that Temple, and she had
extended the offer of a home to certain of the
brethren called to labor in the Temple. Her
last work was the writing of her testimony for
The Woman's Book; after which she went to
the gate with a friend, receiving a cold which
ended her life one week after, passing away in
sleep, and without pain.—COM.


TOOELE CITY, NOV. 10, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We the sisters of Tooele would like to repre-
sent ourselves in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. I
can say that peace health and prosperity pre-
vail, for which we are thankful to our heaven-
ly Father. We meet in the new meeting
house every two weeks, where we enjoy the
society of one another and get our spiritual
strength renewed. We hope soon to have our
new hall finished, it is progressing slowly; we
want to get it covered in as soon as possible so
that we can give parties in it this winter in or-
der to raise means to help defray the expenses.
Our President, Sister Micklejohn is most un-
tiring and energetic in her labors and has the
full confidence and love of all the sisters. The
spirit and blessing of our heavenly Father is
with us. Our new hall is for a Library and
Reading Room and one room is expressly for
the Relief Society. Sister Delamare and my-
self raised a few silk worms this summer for a
beginning in Tooele, and hope that this will not
be the last of it, as there are plenty of mulberry
trees here and plenty of little girls that could
lend a helping hand. We had a very pleasant
visit from Sister Howard two weeks ago at the
Young Ladies Retrenchment Meeting. She
gave some very valuable instructions to the
young ladies; but was very sorry to see so few
in attendance. We highly prize the EXPO-
NENT for it is full of the purest gems of light
and love; we get a feast when it comes. I am
thankful that I am numbered among the Lat-
ter-day Saints, and it is my humble prayer that
we may all endure faithful to the end.
	I remain your sister, etc,
							ANN TATE.


SERICULTURE.

	Minutes of a special meeting of the D. B. As-
sociation, held in the Fireman's Hall, Dec. 7,
Mrs. Barney presiding. Mr. P. A. Schettler


felt proud of our success the past season. He
exhibited some fine specimens of silk that had
been reeled in Logan, which went to show
that those interested in this branch of home-
industry are making rapid progress. He stat-
ed that this season from the small expense of
forty-five dollars for the raising of the cocoons,
he received a profit of eighty dollars, receiving
two dollars per pound for cocoons; and that
amount of cocoons when reeled into raw silk
would bring a net profit of one hundred and
twenty dollars, paying at the rate of three dol-
lars a pound for reeling. Some samples of silk
had been sent to Patterson, New Jersey, and
other places, and an answer received that it
was worth twelve dollars per pound, which
was very encouraging to the society and ought
to give us more courage another year; those
wishing to secure mulberry cuttings should get
them now and keep them in the cellar until
the frost is out of the ground next spring, and
then set them out.
	Mrs. Barney said that the prospects of our
home industries were brightening and espec-
ially that of silk, and this association hoped
that all those who might have felt discouraged
by not finding a market for their cocoons,
would take new courage as we could now reel
our silk at home, and get a remunerative price
for it. All of our farmers [-]hould set out mul-
berry trees next spring. By doing so they
would be helping one of the home industries
that ere long will rank among the best, and be
enriching themselves and the community,
by keeping hundreds of dollars at home which
is now sent out of the Territory every year.
	The meeting was addressed by others and
all felt encouraged.
	Meeting adjourned till the first Wednesday
in January, 1877, at the Firemen's Hall.
				R. SIMPSON, SECRETARY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		109


[Column 1]
	NOTES FROM A CORRESPONDENT.

	You asked me in your last, to give you all
the political information I could. Now the
political matters of this nation are one stupend-
ous fraud from beginning to end; but as this
does not preclude the possibility of telling the
truth about it, I will endeavor to respond to
the requirement as far as my natural abil-
ities will permit. But, to come to the point,
there is one thing which has come under my
notice while here, whether it will bear a polit-
ical construction or not I leave you to judge.
One thing certain though, political and legis-
lative tyranny is the cause. The matter to
which I allude is the hard times now so preva-
lent throughout the country, and which, poor
people are deluded into the belief will change.
Aunt Em, the "good time coming" to this na-
tion as a body, is a myth and delusion which
the rich and proud are in the habit of using to
beguile the minds of the poor and hard-work-
ing classes while they bind their oppressive
chains the tighter.
	The state of affairs in this region, at the
present time is the state of affairs throughout
the United States. Corruption and tyranny
are the characteristics of those who are in
power, poverty and misery those of the work-
ing classes.
	The branches of industry, the more remuner-
ative ones, are in the hands of, and con-
trolled by a few rich men who beside this are
the members of the legislature; and they in-
stead of working for the good of the people at
large are banded together for self and use the
power placed in their hands, for the purpose of
robbing the poor and enriching themselves.
It might be said that the whole state itself,

[Column 2]
is owned by these few; for not only can
they control the capital of the country, but
even the lives liberties and consciences of her
citizens.
	As an instance. Among the branches of in-
dustry here, coal mining is the most im-
portant; especially in the place where I now
am is this the case, and the companies who
work the mines also own or control the rail-
roads.
	In the adjoining large cities, large store
houses are built and constantly supplied with
coal, as the demand increases or diminishes.
While the demand is equal to the supply all
goes well, the rich man pockets his dividend,
and the poor miner can support his family.
But should the state of the market change,
and the coal on hand begin to accumulate
while the owners dividend decreases corres-
pondingly, the order is given, the owners shut
down, discharge their hands who depend on
the employment for their daily bread, and the
coal houses and yards, or rather the superin-
tendents advance their prices till they pay the
same dividend, 10 per cent. for coal is always
in demand to some degree; thus you see,
while the rich man loses nothing by the
change, the poor man is in danger of starva-
cion. And not only this, but when they can-
not keep their own increase up to the estab-
lished line, they lower the wages of their em-
ployees, or let them lay idle half the time.
All this time provisions are as high as ever,
wages may lower, but provisions are the same
or higher. And the worst is this, that it is the
poor man's fault. They dare not vote for other
men than those who employ them, they would
be discharged, and thus this system of coer-
tion is the means of placing these tyrants in
power, while the laboring classes, not being
united, forge the very chains they are groan-
ing under. If the superintendent of a mine
votes for Hayes and Wheeler, or vice versa,
his employees dare not do otherwise; their
bread and butter are at stake and they submit
to having their liberties stripped from them,
their consciences violated by being obliged to
uphold men whom they fear and despise, and
their rights trampled on by the laws of a coun-
try which boasts of freedom and equal rights
to all.
	Who can view this picture without disgust-
Does it not foreshadow something terrible?
We can but come to this conclusion, the hand
of Almighty God is on this nation, and the
day of their destruction, which has been pre-
dicted by the holy prophets is close at hand.
They are nearly ripe in iniquity, and the
wrath of the Almighty is but staid, in mercy,
to give them a chance to repent.
	Woe betide those who harden their hearts
against the truth, for the edict has gone forth
and the Lord has spoken.
	Good honest men as rulers make "good
times." This country cannot boast of either
at this time.


THE BLESSINGS OF RETRENCH-
		MENT ASSOCIATIONS.

	In the first place we never realized our
positions or mission on the earth until these
institutions were brought forth by the in-
spiration of heaven. Can we imagine what
would have been the condition of the
Daughters of Zion to-day had not the Lord
in His mercy conferred this blessing upon
on us. It certainly could not have been as
favorable as it is. Many can look back to
their first associations in these societies as
to the dawning of a new and happier life,


because of having become acquainted with
their heavenly Father, and the principles
of the holy gospel which bringeth joy and
and peace that the world can neither give
nor take away. A continual growth in the
things of God can be observed in those who
have been faithful to their duties in these
societies from the first. They have learned
to govern self, and have to a great degree
gained power over the evil propensities of
their nature, and temptations of daily life,
have learned to seek the good of their fel-
low creatures, and have proven that their
greatest happiness consists in ministering
to the comforts of others. We have learn-
ed that heaven must be begun at home, that
if we ever truly enjoy a heaven, we must
exert all our powers to assist in making it
ourselves, and help establish the principles
of truth and righteousness upon the earth,
that there may be a people prepared for the
second coming of the Lord and Savior
when He comes to take vengeance upon
the wicked and all who know him not.
We can also comprehend something o[-]
that charity of which Paul speaks, "which
suffereth long and is kind, thinketh no evil,
is not easily provoked, hopeth all things,
endureth all things," to make the allowance
for our fellowbeings that we desire they
and the Lord should make for us; consid-
ering that when we have striven to our ut-
most we are yet unprofitable servants. We
are taught to keep the Spirit of God
continually with us, to purify our every
thought and feeling, that we may have
claim upon the blessings of the Lord. In
fine, the instructions we receive include
everything that is pure, noble and exalting,
and are calculated to make those who ac-
cept them and carry them out in their lives
great and mighty women in the kingdom
of God, and finally exalt them in His pres-
ence. Then should we not be grateful for
this boon? Yes, we should give thanks daily
to our Father, and prove our appreciation
of this blessing by being faithful to all the
covenants we have made, carrying out in
our lives every commandment that is given
through the servants of God, being willing
that ourselves and all we possess shall be
used for the [-]urtherance of His righteous
purposes, "For what doth it profit a man if
a gift is bestowed upon him and he receiv-
eth not the gift, Behold he rejoiceth not in
that which is given him, neither rejoiceth
in Him who is the Giver of the gift." [Doc-
trine and Covenants, p. 99.] Dear sisters,
let us receive and rejoice in the opportuni-
ties given us through the Retrenchment
Associations, which will, if improved, bring
u[-] knowledge and happiness both here and
hereafter.
							MARY A. E. [handwritten] [---]
	S. L. City, Oct. 18, 1876.


Spanish Cream.—One half box of gelatine, one
quart of milk, four eggs, beaten separately, one
cup of sugar. Take a small quantity of the milk
to soak the gelatine, put on the back of the stove.
Let the remainder of the milk boil. Mix the
yolks and sugar together and stir quickly into the
scalding milk, let boil about a minute, then take off
and stir in the soaked gelatine, put aside for fif-
teen or twenty minutes, then stir in the whites of
the eggs, by the spoonful, slowly and thoroughly,
and flavor to taste with vanilla. Dip your molds
in cold water and pour in the cream to cool.


Lemon Jelly.—Take one package of gelatine,
add one pint of cold water, juice of six lemons;
let them stand one hour, then add one pint of boil-
ing water, two lbs. of white crust sugar, strain and
cool.


110		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	BELIEF AND UNBELIEF IN GOD.

	READ BEFORE THE WASATCH LIT-
			ERARY ASSOCIATION.

	This may seem a peculiar theme for one
of so little experience as myself to com-
ment upon, yet in consideration of my in-
terest upon the subject it is not at all inap-
propriate.
	I find there are many whose minds ought
to be firmly established on this matter, who
waver, and doubt, and query and wonder
and do everything almost, except humble
themselves and ask help from a divine
source; even this it will be said requires
some faith in God to do, and this belief it
will be averred, is not strong enough in the
heart to warrant it. Then there is something
serious the matter; for every intelligent
person is born with inherent principles of
reverence for a Supreme Being, unless they
are heathen who worship idols, or perhaps
in rare instances the children of ungodly
parents.
	In this kingdom we are all taught from our
earliest childhood to believe in God, and it is
something which we should cultivate and
retain after we arrive at years of discretion,
instead of encouraging doubt and uncer-
tainty upon the subject, and arguing to find
out whether we really are believers or not.
	The great end and aim of life (very gen-
erally conceded) is the pursuit of happiness;
the whole world will tell you there is neith-
er perfect rest nor happiness upon this earth
in its present condition.
	Then shall we admit we are pursuing a
phantom which eludes us when seemingly
within our grasp, or shall we so harmonize
ourselves with our individual being and
surroundings as to be able to bear all things
philosophically, looking forward to that hap-
piness in the eternal, which shall more than
compensate us for endurance of trials here.
	The Author of our existence would not
leave His children without a law, when He
has so firmly fixed the laws and order of all
inanimate things, so that they fulfill the
laws of their creation and bring forth in
due season and keep their appointed times.
Judging from nature as we term it, we may
draw this conclusion, that a God who would
so carefully devise and plan the workings
of the most minute specimen of that which
possesses not an immortal gem, would by
His care for that which must exist forever,
devise the most perfect laws by which they
may through their own agency attain the
highest degree of glory and everlasting
happiness. Perhaps you will say I have
taken the ground that there is a God with-
out proving it. I grant you so much, for
there is a testimony of His existence dwell-
ing within me which it shall be my first
duty to retain. This very witness, or faith
which I have in His existence, aids me in
contemplating His purposes, in understand-
ing some little of His laws and the princi-
ples laid down for those to follow, who
would be like unto Him and arrive to that
perfection which should, in my opinion, be
our highest emulation. I can see no beauty,
no happiness, no merit of any sort in unbe-
lief; consequently, to my mind the very
idea tends downward.
	There are so many ills and crosses in life,
so many disappointments, so much that is
disagreeable and unpleasant to be borne,
that one needs all the stimulus of the no-
blest qualities and highest aims to pass
through life unscathed. There are beset-
ments on over hand to draw aside the un-
wary, and tempt them from the paths of
rectitude and honor; and human nature is
weak and prone to err; therefore there is

[Column 2]
need of some strong support and where
does it lie? Can we find balm in Gilead?
Is there perfect trust in any source except
our faith in God? I think not. Death may
snatch from us the nearest and dearest treas-
ures, those in whom we place the most im-
plicit confidence often prove false to us in
our greatest need, our hearts misgive us,
feeling our weakness and insufficiency, and
unless we have faith in God we are liable to
fall at any moment.
	Therefore my friends and companions,
you whose welfare here and hereafter is
dear to me (and I trust, to one another,) let
me entreat you not to allow yourselves to
get into darkness and unbelief, lest in an evil
hour the Holy Spirit which has been given
to all who have obeyed the Gospel, should
be grieved away and you be left to wrestle
with temptations, alone, unaided by Him
who has said "His spirit will not always
strive with man."
	The pathway of duty is the safest road
to happiness, and we owe a duty to our
parents which we can never repay if we
grieve them through unbelief. This should
make us cautious in acccepting any other
principles unless we could feel assured with-
in ourselves that we should through those
principles become capable of doing a great-
er amount of real good.
	I know it is customary to talk of being
led blindly, and having no knowledge for
one's self, but what sound reasoning is there
for the sceptic? Is not that all uncertainty
and doubt? And supposing even one actu-
ally reasons one's self out of the belief in
God what comfort or satisfaction is afforded
by it or what benefit is it to mankind?
	On the other hand the consciousness of
the hope one has in the justice and mercy
of an alwise Father and His constant watch-
care and guidance which will not allow
even a sparrow to fall to the ground with-
out His notice, is always under, all circum-
stances of however painful, or distressing a
nature, a solace and panacea which affords
more real consolation than all other things
without it.
	Too much controversy stupefies us, and
we may be overwhelmed with a confused
jumble of sophisms and truths and be so
perplexed thereby as to distrust everybody,
which would be the most dangerous state of
the human mind. We who live in the
days of Gospel light, whose parents have
sought so faithfully to train us up in the
nurture and and admonition of the Lord,
cannot afford to wander after the doctrines
and theories of men and forsake the Lord
and His ways. Therefore we should seek
to retain the Holy Spirit, the Comforter,
whom Jesus said He would send to guide
us into all truth.
							[-] M.
		[handwritten] Emma Wells
	Salt Lake City, Dec. 6, 1876.


For the EXPONENT.
				WOMAN.

	How few there are who realize that every
thought, word or deed go to make up their
general appearance and true character, and
leave their inevitable mark upon their face
as well as help clothe the soul in light
which is from God, or darkness which only
comes from a depraved condition of the
heart.
	How few there are that can conceive the 
good or evil that may come from even se-
cret thoughts the influence of which are as
lasting as time, and may be as boundless as
eternity. She that thinks, talks and acts
nobly, she that strives to live up to her

[Column 2]
high privilege, she who is truly what God
made her, a Woman, is one of the greatest
works of the Creator, a blessing to all both
high and low; her influence for good is as
boundless as the sun's light, and her power
is something wonderful. Look at a true
woman as wife, mother, or sister, and say
who or what can bound her influence, or
who can weigh her power, for though she
rules with love, which is God-like, yet her
love is more powerful than the sword or all
the engines of death combined. When in
her presence we feel her hallowed influence,
and though we may but look upon her, we
go away feeling truly blessed that we have
been permitted to receive of that wealth of
loveliness which can only come from a pure
fount, and we in a measure impart to oth-
ers the sweet influence which lingers with
us, blessing those with whom we associate.
Why woman should be called "the weaker
sex" I know not, unless it be her deep and
pure love which gives her the lasting faith
(of which men so frequently take the ad-
vantage) for she being pure thinketh no
evii, until her eyes are opened to see that
she like "Another Eve" has been deceived
by Satan appearing in form of man instead
of a serpent, and when once deceived she is
often left like the vine torn by ruthless
hands, dragged from its lofty place upon the
branches of the towering oak where it has
climbed to bask in the warm sunlight, to
the ground from whence no one cau[-]re-
place it, or even tries to lift it up, and is left
to be trampled under foot and die[---] Thus is
woman when betrayed and left with no one
but God to pity or see that a soul is lost or
saved, and though she lies far beneath the
sphere for which she was made, like the
flower that in being crushed imparts its
rich perfume even under the foot of its de-
stroyer, her soul ofttimes goes out in earnest
prayer in behalf of him who has brought
her low—he whom once she loved as only
woman can love.
	But what is woman to man? To some
she is only a toy to be put aside when tired
of; to others she is a gay butterfly whose
colors they admire, to another she is but an
object or convenience to keep his home in
order and attend to his every care and
want; to some she is a pretty thing as is a
favorite horse or dog, for her sweet face or
form which others admire, he is proud to
say she is his wife, and to the man who can
appreciate her, woman is what vegetation
is to the earth, what the sun is to the flow-
er, what the rose is to the thorny bush,
what the diamond is to the gold in which it
is set, or what the sight is to the eye. She
is what God intended her to be, a part of
his very life, that abundantly enters into all
that is good in him, bearing an impression
for both time and eternity.
	The chords of her pure love twine around
his heart and bring out his noble manhood,
raising his aspirations to things that are
great and good, and when he is about to
faint or fall, she in her rich wealth of good-
ness imparts to him of her strength of soul
by her helping hand, encouraging words,
good counsel, or by but a look from the
love-lit eyes, (which appear to him the win-
dows of heaven) and he is encouraged to
make a greater struggle, strengthened by
the aid of her noble nature, and perchance
attains the goal which may be his salva-
tion.
	A man's name, often goes forth as one of
tne great and honorable men of his age, by
the help given him through woman's influ-
ence; or if he stands among men as does the
giant of the forest among its smaller neigh-
bors, and by storms of adversity is felled to
the ground, [---] like the v[--]e which still


clings to the trunk of the great tree, bud-
ding and putting forth its bright foliage,
making it if possible, more beautiful than
when standing, honors him by placing
around his name the laurels he has won.
	The picture is not too highly colored,
and though all may not be able to attain
greatness here, yet their good works are
none the less important.
	How many there are whose whole life
seems to be composed of beautiful thoughts,
words and deeds; whose souls so expand
with charity that they take  in the whole
world with their love for God and His crea-
tures, forgetful of self are ever able to help
in some way all who are brought within
their godlike influence, until their whole
being is one great song of praise to the
Creator and blessings to their fellow man,
and it may truly be said of such a woman
"a thing of beauty is a joy forever."
	R.
S. L. City, Dec. 5th, 1876.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SOMETHING ABOUT HOLIDAYS.

	Little children always expect something
new and pleasant at Christmas time. I rec-
ollect perfectly when I was a little girl how
I used to tease my mother and big sisters
and everybody else, even grandpa, to tell
me stories and sing me songs about fai-
ries and all sorts of funny things, including
Santa Claus and his wonderful maneuver-
ing. I always like to interest myself in the
children. I know that the time we bestow
upon them is not wasted time, if we are in-
culcating in their young and tender minds
such germs as shall expand and grow into
principles of truth, and knowledge of right
and wrong. Mothers do not grudge the
time you bestow in preparing surprises for
the little folks. How beautifully nature has
ornamented the city for the advent of our
yearly holiday. Can any lover of the pic-
turesque fail to admire the tasteful and
graceful ornamenting of the trees, shrub-
bery, and crystal glass? All these furnish the
most delightful winter landscape in the val-
ley, and looking afar to the tops of the ma-
jestic mountains, how sublimely grand their
hoary tops tower above us like the "ever-
lasting hills." It seems as though the king
and queen of fairyland had been decorating
the city and all its surroundings for the me-
morial of the birth of the blessed Redeem-
er, leaving only the work of preparing our
own dwellings and a sanctuary in our hearts
fit to cherish His love and His life. If we
would imitate Him whose birth we Christ-
mas-day commemorate, we must be full of
charity and loving kindness, doing good
deeds, be they in ever so simple a way.
	Let no frowns be upon the little faces,
but smiles and joyous words, songs full of 
praise and rejoicing for all the manifold
blessings given us here. Cheer every one
around you with the gladness of your happy
childhood; if yon have not the very gift
you longed for, be grateful for that which
you have, and think how many little chil-
dren there are in the world who would be
glad to have even a comfortable home and
warm fireside, and if you know any who
are not as well provided for as you are,
any little orphans, or lonely; sorrowful ones,
let it be your first errand to share with
them your own gifts, and see if it does not
prove the truth of the Savior's words, "It
is more blessed to give than to receive."
When I was a little girl we used to deco-
rate our homes with evergreens and all the
varieties of scarlet berries, which abound
profusely in the New England woods, but
in this new country we have not yet all

[Column 2]
the varieties of winter vines and shrubs,
but all in good time; we have many things
we can beautify our homes with, and every
year prosperity increases in these vaileys,
and if we can teach our little children to
be grateful to the Giver of all blessings the
time will come when no good thing will be
withheld. The city in its frosty adorning
reminds us of the land of enchantment; and
is most peculiarly adaptable to the season of
holiday enjoyment.
	There are many pleasant games for indoors
suitable for the children which we hope
they will appreciate with merry laughter,
glad voices and happy hearts. Think of all
your sweetest songs to sing on the anniver-
sary of that blessed morning when Jesus
was born in Bethlehem, and let the merry
Christmas welcome spring from the depths
of your joyous hearts, to usher in the first
glad morning of the winter holidays. Do
not let one frown on your face darken the
light of your home, but laugh, and shout, and
sing merrily. And do not forget the poor,
nor the sick, nor even the dumb animals,
feed and pet them—your dogs and cats, or
your little canaries, and throw out plenty
of crumbs for the little snowbirds, and love
every creature God has made, for He pro-
nounced them all good. Remember "A
Merry Christmas" to all, and if you like to
hear from me, you shall have another letter
for the glad New Year.
	Perhaps some of my little readers who
are very fond of humorous and funny things,
will think my style too dull and tame for
such a jolly time of year, but I will tell
them that while I was hurriedly jotting
these few items, I was busy performing an-
other part in a drama, so new that even the
import of it is scarcely discernible to those
who have been chosen to take the most
prominent parts. Shall I tell my young
friends that one of the good sisters, who la-
bors for Zion, and myself were looking after
the hauling and storing away of grain, and
while we waited around the platform and
walked up and down, back and forth, to at-
tend to that business, I was writing this ar-
ticle, so you see while I was writing for you
little folks; I was laying up grain in case of
future emergency, lest any dear little ones
like you should ever suffer for bread.
	Hang up your stockings and see what
"Santa Claus" will bring this Centennial
Christmas; of course he is wild with delight
like all the great people, and he will show
it by his extravagance, else he would not
be a fair specimen of the type of his class—
the fun-loving, holiday-making, alms-giv-
ing, jolly-eating, precious good fellows, who
shower down their treasures through the
chimney, or jump in through the cracks and
crevices as soon as every-body sleeps.
							AUNT EM.
	S. L. City, Dec. 13, 1876.


[COLUMN 1]

SURPLUS WOMEN.

AND WHAT THEY ARE TO DO.

	Bessie Bramble, in the "Woman's Jour-
nal," discourses on the "Surplus Woman"
question after the following fashion, taking
for her text the announcement in that jour-
nal that there are in Great Britain 900 000
women in excess of men:
	900,000! Gracious goodness! Just im-
agine 900,000 slim, stiff, staid, starched old
maids, and no fault of theirs; 900,000 maid-
en aunts more or less "fussy;" 900,000 wo-
men, who by a mysterious dispensation of
Providence are unprovided with husbands
to "support them;" 900,000 ivies without
any oaks to twine on; 900,000 "lone roses

[COLUMN 2]

to pine on the stem"; 900,000 Juliets with
"nary" a Romeo; 900,000 "weaker vessels"
and nobody to lean on; 900,000 "social fail-
ures," as Sir Henry James calls them; 900,
000 women out of their heaven ordained
sphere; not from choice, perhaps, but be-
cause they cannot get in; 900,000 women
who cannot ask their husbands at home,
when they want to know anything, as St.
Paul teaches; 900,000 women who must
"hoe their own row;" 900,000 women who
stand no chance of being harassed and wor-
ried out of their lives by good-for-nothing,
mean men, and finally, to be brief, 900,000
women in Great Britain, alone, left "out in
the cold," although the wise men tell us
that God and Nature have ordained that
woman's "true sphere" is home and house-
work with a husband to "support her."
With this the most of women are, doubt-
less, disposed to agree, but what can be
done about 900,000 exceptions to the rule?
	Carl Schurz tells us that women should
be educated for wives and mothers, and all
education for girls should tend to husbands
and housekeeping. This would be all very
well, perhaps, if the supply of husbands
would "hold out," but statistics tell us there
are over 900,000 surplus women in Great
Britain, and over 30,000 in the State of
Massachusetts alone, and heaven only knows
how many elsewhere.
	Now in view of this tremendous fact, we
call upon the philosophers and learned men,
who profess to know all about the chief
end of women, to explain what is to be done
with these surplus women who are fixed, by
fate, out of their true sphere?	Oh, but the education of women should
tend to "husbands and housekeeping," says
Mr. Schurz; but he doesn't tell where the
husbands are to come from, or where wo-
men are to get the houses to keep or the
money to keep them, and housekeeping is
not a business that pays, as every woman
knows. Now if Parliament, in lieu of hus-
bands, would furnish each of these 900,000
surplus women with a house to keep and an
adequate income, we have no doubt the
most of them would be content—even with-
out a husband—to go on keeping house to
the end of the chapter, and would show no
disposition whatever to crowd their way in-
to the businesses that pay. But as long as
these women have to make their own
money or starve, they will reach out, just as
men do for whatever will pay best.
	A woman who has discovered that she
can make three thousand a year and keep a
carriage, as a doctor, is not to be scared
back into the kitchen for board and clothes;
if she should find, by dint of pluck and per-
severance, that soft seats were not reserved
for men alone, it is not likely she will dig
and delve in the depths of drudgery, for
five dollars a week; if she should discover
that fat fees followed fine ability and full
knowledge of the law and gospel, without
regard to sex, it is hardly probable she will
sew shirts for a shilling a piece or darn
stockings for nothing. The philosophers
and wise men may talk till all is blue about
woman's true sphere, but as long as hun-
dreds of thousands of women are com-
pelled to shift for themselves, they will do
what they best can for the best pay, sphere
or no sphere. The time is gone by when
they can be hooted away from the profess-
ions or the trades, because to enter these
will, as men say, unsex them.
	Mrs. Swisshelm says, "The philosophers
seem to know that hard work never unsex-
es a woman, only wages can do that." A
woman may toil like a beast of burden, as
in Germany; she may work in the harvest
field all day and do the house work at


night, as in Pennsylvania; she may work
eighteen hours out of the twenty-four any-
where, but there is no flurry about her be-
ing unsexed until she reaches for the same
wages as man in the capacity of a doctor, a
lawyer, a preacher or a legislator. Ay,
there's the rub
	That's where the howl comes in! But
women who have to take care of them-
selves are learning to disregard howling.
Experience teaches them, as it does men,
that they must strike out for themselves or
go to the bottom. They soon find that
while it is very pretty and poetical to con-
sider woman an angel and man as her pro-
tector, yet when the question comes down
in plain prose, to the "bottom facts," of
bread and butter, they must look out for
"number one." And when a brave, true-
hearted, high-spirited woman makes up her
mind to take the bull of public opinion by
the horns, ten chances to one she wins.—
The Golden Dawn.
	We do not believe there are any surplus
women; there is not one too many in all
the world. It is only the consequence of
man-made laws and misconstructed gov-
ernments. The writer calls upon philoso-
phers and learned men to explain what is to
be done with these surplus women, who are
fixed by fate out of their true sphere. We
will give her some ideas upon the subject in
our next issue of the EXPONENT, as it was
crowded out of this.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Headache From Eye strain.—Dr. Weir Mitch
ell, in the American Journal of Medical Sciences
observes that few but opthalmic surgeons are
aware of the need of interrogating the eye for an-
swers to some of the hard questions which are put
to us by certain head symptoms; and he wishes to
impress upon the profession: (1.) That there are
many headaches which are due indirectly to disor-
ders of the refractive or accommodative apparatus-
of the eyes. (2.) That in these instances the
brain symptom is often the most, and sometimes
the sole, prominent symptom of the eye trouble,
so while there may be no pain or sense of fatigue
in the eye, the strain with which it is used may
be interpreted solely by occipital or frontal head-
ache. (3.) That the long continuance of eye trouble
may be the unsuspected source of insomnia, verti-
go, nausea, and general failure of health. (4.)
That in many cases the eye trouble becomes sud-
denly mischievous, owing to some failure of the
general health, or to increased sensitiveness of the
brain from moral or mental causes. Several illus-
trative cases are given, and the moral is: Be
careful not to strain your eyes.


On the evening of Dec. 5, the most tragi-
cal event ever known to transpire in any
theatre took place in Brooklyn, at the Brook-
lyn Theatre. The last act in the play of
"The Two Orphans" was being enacted,
when an alarm of fire was given from be-
hind the stage. The wildest confusion pre-
vailed immediately, and nearly three hun-
dred persons were burned and crushed to
death.


Fannie—"Why, Susie, what a queer
way of doing your hair—just like a snail."
"Well, my dear, I don't think any one can
call that a 'fast' headdress."


[Column 1]
	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

[Column 2]WOOLCOTT'S
		PAIN PAINT
					IS THE
GREAT HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
For Inflammation, Fever or Heat. Does not
burn, smart or color the skin, and requires
	no rubbing. Recommended for all
		Eruptive Diseases, Rheumatism,
			Bruises, Wounds, Colds,
				Fros[-]ed Feet, &c.
PRICE FIFTY CENTS!
		Hundreds of References in Salt Lake City.

	The Ogden Junction says: "Pain Paint is a wonderful
remedy and ought to be widely known."
	☞ A HOME PREPARATION ☜
	ONLY CITY AGENCIES—11th and 15th Ward Co-op
St[-]re, Des[-]ret Bakery, Main Street, Morgan's 7th Ward
[-]o[-]pe[-]'s, 17th Ward( and Woman's Commission House.

				AGENTS WANTED.
	No Capital but Bishop's Recommend required. Ad-
dress this office.

		WOMAN'S
COMMISSION HOUSE
		IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOOLEN GOODS,
				SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
			LADIES JACKETS,
				STOCKINGS, YARNS,
			SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
LATEST STYLES OF FANCY WORSTED TIES,
	Men's Knitted Undershirts,
	DAMASK BED SPREADS,
	Rag Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy
Articles, Shoes, Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brush-
es, Brooms, Butter, Cheese, Eggs, Flour, Can-
ned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vinegar,
Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bu-
reaus, Spool Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps,
Ink, Shoe Blacking, Concentrated Lye, Silver
Plating, Pottery Ware, Clothes Pins, Neats
Foot Oil, Glue.
			ALSO A VARIETY OF
MEDICINES,
			INCLUDING
	D. Huntington's Celebrated
INDIAN REMEDIES!
			AND THE
	Oil of Artemisia,
		OR WILD SAGE.

	PAIN PAINT.

Medicines from Dr. Crockwell's Dispenstay,
	SARAS SALVE, Etc.
Also a Variety of Books,
		AL OF
HOME MANUFACTURE.

[Column 3]
DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
					17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
