VOL. 5.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1876.	NO. 5.


ST. GEORGE TEMPLE.

Hail! a Temple stands erected
	On that consecrated land,
By the man of God selected
	And by him devised and plann'd.

		    CHORUS

	Saints and angels shout Hosannah,
		"Peace on earth good will to men"
	Hear the message of salvation,
		Christ will come on earth again.

See the mighty angel flying
	With the message to declare,
Fear your God and give Him glory--
	For His judgment now prepare.

	Chorus.

See the fig tree's leaves are budding;
	Know this token–summer's nigh–
Hear the word which God hath spoken
	The day of vengeance draweth nigh.

Hark! the watchman's loudly calling,
	Awake ye saints! awake prepare!
Trim your lamps and keep them burning
	You have oil but not to spare.

Clothe you with the wedding garment
	Come unto the feast prepared;
You have listened to the warning,
	Now you'll have the great reward.

Jesus comes in power and glory,
	Comes to wed His ready Bride,
Robed in white and wreathed in glory;
	No more to be crucified.

WILMIETH EAST.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	A BOOK entitled "Woman Created an
Image of God," is now being published by
Miss Aasta Hausteen, who is an enthusias-
tic worker for woman's rights in Norway.
She is a daughter of the celebrated Prof.
Hausteen.
	MRS. Emma Malloy of Indiana deliver-
ed an eloquent and spirited address to a
numerous assembly of people in New Era
Hall, 176 Tremont Street, Boston on July
4th, at the convention of the Suffolk County
Good Templars.
	HARRIET Martineau, an English writer
of great celebrity and whose works have
had an extensive circulation in America,
died at her own home in England, the first
week in July last, at the age of seventy-
four. She was a powerful writer, and was
often spoken of as masculine in her vigor
of intellect, and clearness of perception.
She was in the strictest sense of the word
a woman of superior mind and attainments.
	MRS. M. A. Ford, an author and poet,
who died recently, has been spoken of in
terms of the highest praise, as a woman
possessing many loveable and aimable
qualities and attractions. She was one who
labored assiduously for the elevation of her
sex. She wrote under the "nom de plume of
"Una," and has been highly complimented
by Longfellow, who is by most people "con-
sidered an authority.


HE who thinks he has enough of the Holy
Spirit will quickly find himself vanquished
by the evil spirit.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	AN INGENIOUS specimen of woman's 
work at the Exposition is from Peru. It is
a bust of President Grant, made of the fin-
est wire, so fine that at first sight it has the 
appearance of velvet. It is said to be eas-
ily recoguized, although not at all flatter-
ing.
	"THE NEW Century for Woman" places
the names George Sand and George Elliot
as the two women who have achieved the
honor of placing the novel at the head of
dramatic art; not Scott, or Dickens, or 
Thackery, or Bulwer.
	ONE of the most notable of woman's 
works in art is the marble statue of Samuel
Adams, modeled and carved by Miss Whit-
ney of Boston. It has been on exhibition
at the Boston Athenaum for some time, and
by the best judges pronounced a wonderful
achievement. It was designed for the Cap-
itol at Washington. It is said to be "full of
character and expression, simple and manly
in attitude; and with the expression of
great beauty of thought and feeling."
	THERE IS an Italian lady now residing at
Rome, Madame Maraini, who is said to be
a sculptor of wonderful genius and talent, and
also of most striking originality in her ideas
and conceptions. In her studio among the
many specimens, portraits, busts, statuettes,
etc. a most magnificent life-sized figure of
Sappho. It represents her standing upright,
leaning back again against a bit of rock, the
head a little inclined forward, in the expres-
sion of the features, and about the eyes and
mouth a look of despair. The right arm
and hand from which the drapery is thrown
gracefully back, is pressed close to her breast
as if to still the tumultuous beating of her
agonized heart. It represents her just at
the moment she is about to take the fatal
leap from the Leucadian rock. A lady cor-
respondent writing from Rome to the Bos-
ton "Journal" says: "It is the most ex-
pressive piece of sculpture I have ever
seen." It is to be regretted that it was not
sent to the Philadelphia Exhibition. It is
to go to the Salon Exposition at Paris, and
it is expected will receive either a gold
medal or honorable mention. The lady's 
husband is editor of the most popular news-
paper in Rome, "Il Diretto.'


MISCELLANEOUS.

	BIRDS of some species are very long-
lived; of these are the eagle, raven, swan
and parrot. "An eagle kept in Vienna died
after a confinement of one hundred and
fourteen years." An ancient oak in Shel-
bourne, still known as the raven tree, is be-
lieved to have been the residence of the
same pairs of ravens for more than ninety
years. Swans upon the river Thames have
been known to survive a hundred and fifty
years or more. It is certified upon good
authority that there can be no mistake in
this since they are annually marked by
Vintner's Company, under whose keeping
they have been for more than five centur-
ies.
	ANCESTRY OF THE PEN:—The most an-


cient method of writing was upon bricks'
tiles, oyster-shells, stones, ivory, bark and
leaves of trees, and no doubt it is from the
latter that the term, "leaves of a book" is
derived. Copper and brass plates were in
use very early. A bill of foefiment on
copper, was some years since discovered in
India, bearing date one hundred years B.
C. Wooden and leather tablets were used
and the papyrus; about the eighth century
the papyrus was superseded by parchment.
Paper is of the greatest antiquity among
the Chinese: The first paper-mill in Eng-
land was built in 1586, by a German at
Dartford, in Kent. In1713, Thomas Wal-
kins, a stationer, brought paper making to
something nearer perfection. The first pen
we have any knowledge of, was the stylus,
a kind of iron bodkin, which the Romans
forbade the use of because of its frequent
and often fatal use in quarrels; afterwards
it was make of bone; subsequently reeds,
pointed and split, were used, something
after the style of the pens of our day.


FLORAL HINTS.

	A WRITER in the "Ladies Floral Cabi-
net" describes how to make what is termed
a Hanging Garden.—Take a large white
sponge and sew it full of canary, grass,
hemp, rice and other seeds; then place it in
a shallow dish and keep a little water con-
stantly in the dish, and the sponge will ab-
sorb the moisture, and in about a week the
seeds will begin to sprout. When they
have grown a little the sponge can be hung
up in a window where the sun can get at
it by means of a cord or two. Soon it will
become a mass of green foliage which is al-
ways pretty to look at. Wet the sponge
every day by pouring water lightly upon it,
and if it absorbs much water and becomes
dry during the day wet it with warm water.
	FLOWERS FOR WINDOWS: Plants should
be placed where they can have the greatest
amount of sunlight possible. East and south 
windows are the best although west win-
dows will do: too many plants should not
be crowded into one window. The pots
need to be turned every few days. Fresh
air should be given them every day that
is mild enough, by opening the doors or let-
ting down the windows from the top. If
there is much dust arising from sweeping
carpets or other causes they will need fre-
quent showering with warm water. It is
best to shower them on cloudy days; if
plants are sprinkled with the sun shining
upon them it has a tendency to injure the
leaves. The evening is a good time to
shower them; the soil in the pot should be
stirred every time the plant has a thorough
watering; for this purpose a stiff hair-pin
is a very good thing. The best plan to have
good healthy window plants for winter, is to
have new plants started from slips during
the summer, or those that have been kept
in pots. If any of the cuttings wilt, cover
them with a glass tumbler or lamp-chimney;
as fast as the slips take root transplant them
into two or three inch pots; keep them
shaded from four days to a week. Cuttings
can be rooted this way during the summer
and autumn and you can have fine plants
for winter.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Retrenchment Association, held in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday,
July 22nd, was one of increased interest,
and plainly indicated the zeal and enthusi-
asm of the sisters in promoting the HOME
INDUSTRIES.
	Counselor Mrs. Phebe Woodruff presided,
President Mrs. M. I. Horne not being able
to attend on account of ill-health. After
the usual opening exercises and reading of
minutes of the young secretaries from the
several wards represented, Counselor Zina
D. Young gave a synopsis of her journey
recently taken into the country, reported
the success of the silk culture in the places
she had visited, and the energy and mag-
nanimity manifested by the sisters to pro-
gress and develop in all the different depart-
ments of home manufacture. Counselors
Mrs. E. Howard and Mrs. P. Woodruff
spoke with considerable power and earnest-
ness, exhorting the sisters to use great wis-
dom in all their movements. Mrs. E. S.
Barney bore a strong testimony to the gos-
pel, and several other sisters arose and ex-
pressed their views and feelings. All was
in perfect order and harmony.

HARRISBURG, July 14, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We, with the rest of our sisters, would
like to represent ourselves and our interests
in the columns of the Woman's paper.
Health and peace prevail in our little settle-
ment nestled among the hills here away in
Southern Utah. This beautiful country—
the land of the vine and the fig tree—where
we can enjoy the blessings of God's best
gifts to man, "health, peace and compe-
tence," and the principles of the Everlast-
ing Gospel.
	We have a Relief Society organized here
and we meet twice a month; we have been
able to add our mite in helping to erect the
St. George Temple, and hope yet to do more.
The sisters of this place have established a
Co-operative store, and we hope to make it
a decided success.
	There has also recently been organized a
Young Men's Mutual Improvement Associ-
ation. All our institutions are doing well
at present, which is a source of great satis-
faction to all interested in the progress of
the latter-day work.
	We receive the EXPONENT regularly and
value it highly. Ever praying for your in-
terest and for the spread of truth, we re-
main,
	Your friend and sister,
		ELLEN C. FULLER.

BLOOMINGTON, BEAR LAKE CO.,
	July 14, 1876.
Editor Exponent:
	Our Relief Society is prospering under
the untiring zeal of our President L. Green-
holst; we number about sixty, and I believe
a great amount of good has been done by
the sisters in this place in the past year; we
hope to be able to build a good house the
coming summer, that we may hold
our meetings whenever we wish, we
have a good attendance at our meetings,
and the sisters, many of them, feel a deep
interest in doing all in their power to help
on this good work by their faith, prayers
and also by their means; we are sometimes
favored by a visit from Pres. Rich, also
Bishop Budge, who feel a deep interest in

[COLUMN 2]

the Society, and we receive much valuable
instruction and advice from them; we were
also favored with a visit from Sister M. I.
Horne while she was visiting in Bear Lake
Valley, and I believe all who heard her
speak felt blessed and instructed, and deter-
mined to do better in the future than they
had in the past.
	Sister Horne while here organized a
Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association
which is now in good condition; our young
ladies seem to feel a great interest in their
meetings which they hold every two weeks
under the presidency of Sister Hester Dunn;
their meetings are well attended; our young
sisters are not ashamed to pray and speak,
and they feel determined to do all in their
power to forward the cause of the kingdom
of God.
	We had a good time on the Fourth of
July; our Sunday School children had a
nice Entertainment given by the President
of our Society and the Teachers of the Sun-
day School; the Bloomington band played
and the children sang some beautiful songs;
received prizes and were served with suit-
able refreshments; run races, and finished
with a dance in the evening.
	ELIZABETH LONG,
		Secretary.

GOSHEN, UTAH, CO., June 14, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Report of the Annual meeting of the
Relief Society on the first of June, in the
School House of this place.
	There were present on the stand Bishop
William Price, the president of the teach-
ers, and other brethren, also the choir led
by Elder James Jenkins.
	The house was lined with quilts and or-
namental work done by the Sisters of the
Society.
	Names of the present officers:
	Mrs. Mary Johnson,	President,
	"	Eleson Gurley,
	"	Mary Dodds,			Counselors.
	" 	Louisa Taylor,		Secretary,
	"	Christina Higginson, Treasurer.
	After the usual exercises and reading of
minutes, the following report of the year
ending May 31st, was read by the Secre-
tary.
	Donations received....................	$140 18
	Disbursed to sick and needy...... 	94 39
	Clothes for Lamanites................	23 88
	Cash invested in Co-op store,
and Provo Factory..............................	150 55
	Cash in Treasury........................	51 00
	Property on hand, consisting
of quilts, socks, burial clothes
and other articles................................ 	110 25
	Our meeting was excellent and a good
spirit prevailed, there was a large attend-
ance. President Mary Johnson remarked,
she was pleased to see the willingness of
the sisters to sustain HOME INDUSTRIES.
Prayed the Lord to bless each member of
the society that they might have a spirit of
oneness; she desired the bishop and breth-
ren present to give their views regarding
the house we anticipate building this year.
	Bishop Price spoke very encouragingly;
thought the members of the society were
making every effort to aid the sick and
needy; was pleased to see their determin-
ation to have a house of their own, said it
would not only prove a comfort to use, but
the Lord would also bless us in our under-
taking. Said the Sisters were a great help
to the Priesthood. He also spoke of the in-
fluence of WOMAN for good, and he felt to
bless the society and all its members.
	Each of the brethren followed in good

[COLUMN 3]

and instructive remarks. All felt well and
seemed to enjoy the spirit of the Gospel of
the Latter Days.
	Ever your Sister, &c.
		LOUISA TAYLOR, Secretary.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I wish to inform you of the condition of
affairs touching the progress of our Society.
I have had opportunities not only in public
but in private to familiarize myself with
the spiritual condition of its members, and
I must confess that the evidences are many
that their hands and hearts are in the great
work of reformation, manifesting on all oc-
casions a disposition and willingness to up-
hold and sustain by kind words and com-
mendable deeds, our highly esteemed and
worthy President Sister Margarette Ran-
dall whose untiring efforts to promote not
only the interests of the Society but the
general good of the kingdom of God, are
too well known to need comment. Suffice
it to say that at our annual meeting of re-
cent date, and largely attended, a spirit of
devotion to the cause which we have es-
poused seemed to pervade the assembly;
and some able, timely, and interesting re-
marks by Brother N. T. Porter added new
fuel to the spiritual conflagration already
kindled in the souls of all convened.
	With these hasty remarks, still praying
for the present and ultimate success of your
valuable paper, and the general good of
humanity; I subscribe myself your Sister
in the Gospel.
	CAROLINE DALRYMPLE.
		Centreville, July 1st, 1875.

NEPHI CITY, July 16, 1876.
EDITOR'S EXPONENT:
	We held our Annual Meeting on the 24th
of June; it was a good time for us as we
were able to meet in our own Society
House for the first time; it is not entirely
finished, yet we feel greatly blessed in hav-
ing it so near completed that we can be
comfortable in it.
	A few of the brethren and many of the
sisters were present, and all seemed to feel
well and enjoy the spirit of their religion.
	Our Bishop, Joel Grover, made the dedi-
catory prayer, and after the opening of the
meeting a report was read of our donations
and disbursements which showed that we
have been gaining a little.
	All the brethren present congratulated us
on having done so good a work in so short
a time, and with so little monied means.
We have a real economist for a president or
we could not have accomplished it.
	Our Society is still alive to the interests
of the kingdom and we are willing to lend
a helping hand to the poor and needy, and
give a word of comfort to those that are
cast down; and our President and Counsel-
ors are ever on the watchtower for the in-
terests of all.
	The EXPONENT is a welcome guest to all
who can command the means to take it in
this place; many express regret when the
sisters ask them to subscribe and they
really have not the means to do so.
	Hoping for better times, I remain as ever,
your Sister in the Gospel of Peace.
				A. L. BIGLER, Sec'y.


EVERY noble-crown is, and on earth ever
will be, a crown of thorns. In a valiant
suffering for others, not in a slothful mak-
ing others suffer for us, did nobleness ever
lie.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		35


WHERE THE OLD FRIENDS MEET.

Affectionately inscribed to Mrs. Flizabeth Howard on her
	birthday, by her friend EMILY H. WOODMANSEE

		Cheering as the green oasis,
			Is this social treat,
		Pleasant in our recollection
		Is this place of our affection,
	 		Where the old friends meet.

		Dearer still the old friends' faces
			All so true and sweet;
		Like some loved, continued story
		Is the very lanscape glory,
			Where the old friends meet.

		Friends that in the pleasant sunshine,
			Friends that in the shade,
		With unselfish, loving kindness,
		And a hearty, willing mindness,
			Lent us timely aid.

		Friends like these who can forget them.
			Tho' seas rolled between?
		Recollection answers Never!
		Memory shall repeat forever
			What their love has been.

		But no gulf is now between us,
			Face to face we greet,
		One by one each hand is shaken,
		Nothing seems at all forsaken,
			Where the old friends meet.

		Gratefully my heart desireth
			Shall desire for aye,
		That of joy, our kind host's measure,
		May be equal to the pleasure,
			Felt by us to-day.

		Many years, may yet your birthday.
			Be with joy replete.
		Till old age—all ripe and hoary–
		Crowns you with a fitting glory,
			Where the old friends meet.
July 12, 1876.


TO MY FRIEND MRS. HOWARD, ON
		HER BIRTHDAY.

	Again your natal day awakes my lyre,
		And bids me sing
	A song of genuine friendship unto thee,
		Which here I bring.

	The harp within my heart of thousand strings
		Is tuned for thee!
	The dispason clear and full rings out
		To you from me.

	How many years have fled since first we met,
		In thrilling scenes!
	And memory indellby has left
		Her waking dreams!

	The vision yet in all these years fades not,
		I see as clear
	All that then I saw—all I then beheld.
		As tho' 'twere near.

	Since then the sea of life has o'er us rolled,
		Wave upon wave;
	But through God's help we've stemmed the rolling tide,
		HE stood to save.

	Yes, let it go—the stream of life flows on
		With noiseless roll,
	And day by day, and night by night, we do approach
		The final goal!

	But from the subject that I had in hand
		I have digressed—
	To wish you all that's good on this bright day,
		To wish yon blessed

	With all your heart desires, is what I wish;
		I full well know 
	You nothing crave but that a Saint may ask
		Or God bestow.

	Then be you blessed my sister ever kind,
		And with pure health;
	For health of body, and a mind that's sound;
		Is untold wealth.

	And if some wish above all others dwells within
		That heart of thine,
	Then may kind Heaven that boon on you bestow.
		So prays my rhyme.

							HANNAH T. KING.


A WEDDING TRIP.—Stumbling over the
bride's train.﻿


For the Exponent.
				TO HAL.

	And you are a school-teacher! you have
my sympathy, if you are indeed one of
that patiently suffering and imposed-upon
class, who plod steadily on, year after year,
and endure the whips and scorn of an out-
rageous fortune." But even this is better
than to fly to others that we know not of."
	But what could lead you to think that
you are older than I am, I can't imagine.
	You must be anti-quated, indeed! or are
you uncle-quated?
	Now don't presume to dictate to your
grandmother. Older than I indeed! I flat-
ter myself that there are few teachers in
this vicinity who possess a more profound
and extensive stock of information on the
subject of tea. (abbreviation of teaching,)
t[-]an I do.
	On the wall, just opposite to me, I see this
motto: "Be not wise in thine own eyes."
I read it with complacency, knowing that it
cannot apply to me. And now as an illus-
tration of the vast experience I have had, I
will just give you a piece of advice, which,
if you will follow you will find of great ben-
efit in every-day, practical work in the
school-room.
	For example: Two of your pupils come
to you with an apple—or some other edible,
perhaps a fine spring onion—each declaring
that it is his very own.
	Now how are you to decide the question
of which it belongs to? It is simply an im-
possibility. It may belong to both. Under
these trying circumstances, assume your
most severe and dignified manner, look
them steadily in the eye at the same time,
calmly take the disputed property and eat
it yourself. Then in a stern voice bid your
pupils return to their books. This will in-
spire confidence on their part, in your supe-
rior wisdom. They will at once see the jus-
tice of your action, and will undoubtedly
retire subdued to tears by this impartial
act of yours, and spend the rest of the day
in vain regrets for the lost apple. I am
sorry to say I have never read "Hannah
Jane." Judging from what I have read of
"Nasby's" writings it is rather on the con-
cise order like the "Widow Bedott's.
	You remember the poetry she made eu-
logizing the deacon, while she was sitting
under the spreading branches of an old
tree, and repeated them loud enough to be
heard by the deacon who was sitting on the
other side of the tree, preparing his ser-
mon for the coming sabbath. But of course
she didn't know it.
	Of course it is amusing to read such poe-
try, but one could scarcely become so
deeply engrossed in it as to become obliv-
ious to all mundane affairs.
	But really, it is almost too sultry to-day
to express an opinion on any subject. In
fact it fatigues me to write, so I shall short-
en this article, (it is slightly mixed, but all
owing to this extremely disagreeable weath-
er) by dropping part of my long name, and
sign myself, simply—
						OLD MAID.
	P. S. Although I have not the mascu-
line failing of curiosity, I should really like
to see you, just for fun.
[handwritten] Augusta Winters	O.M.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

		MILL CREEK WARD, July 14, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:	Mill Creek Ward Relief Society is in a
flourishing condition and under the guid-


ance of the Bishop of the Ward, Reuben
Miller. Mrs. Mary McAllister, President,
Sisters Elizabeth Park and Ann Morgan,
Counselors, Sister Elizabeth Carlyle, Secre-
tary, Sister Orice Miller, Treasurer. Our
President is a woman that is alive to her
duty at all times, in looking after the wants
of the poor and needy; the Society owns a
good meeting house well furnished and car-
peted, and withal, very comfortable.
	I believe the meetings to be productive
of much good, and edifying to the sisters
who attend them; there are some of the
sisters who have been baptized for their
dead and they rejoice in the great and
glorious principles that have been revealed
in these the latter days; how great, grand
and noble the work of God is.
	Oh, let us try and be faithful and do our
part; we can help much. We want salva-
tion, and with the help of Israel's God we
will persevere by walking in the fear of the
Lord. Our enemies are assiduous in their
labors; they make a bugbear of Polygamy,
and I believe "a gnat would choke them
while a camel would ne'er be felt."
	I think if our would-be-friends would
look at home they would need to blush for
shame, instead of coming among this peo-
ple to reform them.
	The song of Polygamy has been sung so
much that it has become quite stale; some-
thing new by way of variety would be a
change. There is one thing they have got
to learn yet, and that is, "two are better than
one, and a three-fold cord is not quickly
broken." We do not believe that Polygamy
detracts from a woman's sphere, we can but
believe that it is Monogamy that degrades
her in this generation; we believe in Wo-
man's Rights, and it is her right to have a
husband and a home; we think there are
not many women that would refuse this
heaven-born gift; but it is truth we are
seeking, it is truth we love for itself alone
and truth we intend to follow. She needs
no breastworks to shield herself behind, but
proudly stands upon her own merits.

	"Oh! say what is truth, 'tis the fairest gem
	To which mortals or gods can aspire;
	And priceless the value of truth will be
	When the proud monarch's costliest diadem
	Is counted but dross and refuse."

				Respectfully,
									I. P. W.


WOMAN'S WOUNDED AFFECTIONS.

	Washington Irving wrote:—"As the
dove will clap its wings to its side and cov-
er and conceal the arrow that is prey-
ing on its vitals, so it is the nature of
woman to hide from the world the
pangs of wounded affection. With her the
desire of the heart has failed. The great
charm of existence is at an end. She neg-
lects all the cheerful exercises that gladden
the spirits, quicken the pulse and send the
tide of life in healthful currents through
the veins. Her rest is broken; the sweet
refreshment of sleep is poisoned by melan-
choly dreams; "dry sorrow drinks her
blood," until her feeble frame sinks under
the last external assailant. Look for her af-
ter a while and you find friendship weeping
over her untimely grave wondering that
one who but lately glowed with all the ra-
diance of health and beauty should now be
brought down to "darkness and the worm."
You will be told of some wintry chill,
some slight indisposition that laid her low
but no one knows the mental malady that
previously sapped her strength and made
her so easy a prey to the spoiler."


36		WOMAN'S EXPONENT

THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,	} Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.		}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 1, 1876,


HOME HAPPINESS.

	There are some sweet words which never be-
come hackneyed, however much they may be
used; and HOME is one of them. "Home!"
"Our home!" But how do we understand the
term? Should the habitation in which jar-
ring, unkind expressions are common, where
love and confidence and tender sympathies are
wanting, be known by that sacred name? We
must admit that the dear word is too often thus
profaned. But as we take it, home means a
place of enduring cheer. A place of rest, of
quiet repose for the care-worn and weary. A
place of social freedom and gladness which
can never be found outside the hallowed pre-
cincts, in the cold, carless world.
	It is not perfect home if the strength and
vigor of manhood, with its protecting, furnish-
ing care be wanting; or if the calm, pure in-
fluence of womanly grace and gentleness be
not there; or lacking the sweet music of child-
ren's voices. But all these powers must be de-
lightfully and harmoniously blended to make
a home complete.
	Then there are certain individual character-
istics to be possessed by each member of a fam-
ily, and certain household rules to be observed,
which combine to make home what it should
be, really the dearest, brightest, happiest
place on earth. Among the very first princi-
ples to be inculcated, should be strict honesty
and industry. Where these two important
items are justly regarded, it is strange if all
the other pleasing virtues do not shine forth
with their proper lustre. Honesty and indus-
try are surely the founders of cheerfulness and
of order; they have much to do in a general
way, with temperance and with all the devo-
tional emotions. The enjoyment of all real
pleasure depends greatly upon the possession
and use of these principles.
	No bread is so sweet as that which is earned
by honest industry, no sleep so refreshing
as that won by the same blessed medium.
The boy who is sent to a "free school" and has
no concern about the finding of board and
clothes, can never prize the blessings of an ed-
ucation so fully as the one who pays the world
for all he receives of it by his own honest
labor. Says a great philosopher of the present
age, "we have a nation of thieves and murder-
ers. And why is this? Is it the man who is
raised a farmer that becomes a thief and a
murderer? No! Is it the one who has been
raised a mechanic or a mason? No! Such
men can find honest employment by which to
earn a living. But those who are sent to 'free
schools," and are then turned out upon the world
knowing nothing of work or how to sustain
themselves honestly, are the men who enter


into intrigues and commit crimes as a means
of obtaining a livlehood."
	Such statements as the above could not be
truly made of our nation had the homes
of the United States, for the past cen-
tury, exhibited the respect and honor which
should be shown to the great principles of hon-
esty and industry. The home of the truly in-
dustrious is generally the home of true happi-
ness, and such should be the home of every
Latter-day Saint.
				[handwritten] E. B. Wells


A WORD TO THE WISE IS
			SUFFICIENT.

	There are some convenient places for listening
to gossip, where you may have to near it if you
are pleased or otherwise, and all present can
put their own construction upon it, and make
of it perhaps a pretty heavy investment in
newspaper columns; it is strange that people
should forget when they are in certain public
places that there is anybody there except
themselves, those in whom they are interested,
or to whom they are addressing their conver-
sation. They will tell all their family affairs,
their neighbors affairs, and in fact, you can
hear almost anything about yourself or your
friends in street cars, or railroad cars etc; And
afterwards when somebody writes it and makes
a mountain out of the mole hill—these very
persons lift up their hands in astonishment
and wonder how they got the leading items.
That people talk too much is a very common
saying; certainly they should be careful how
they talk, but there is one other important
consideration and that is WHERE THEY TALK.
	We were on the point of asking a lady the
other day whether she imagined herself trav-
eling in her own family carriage, so freely did
she proclaim her domestic troubles and those
of her: neighbors to the occupants of the street
car.
	The opinions of people are various and it is
scarcely to be expected that a class of persons
gathered from different parts of the communi-
ty, and previously from different parts of the
world, and from all classes of society, should
draw the same, or even similar inferences
from a casual conversation. Then there is
in the organization, of perhaps a majority of
people at the present day a proneness to ex-
aggeration, and all these things considered is
it any wonder that people's private affairs are
often made public, and so re-constructed and
highly colored as to assume an altogether un-
familiar bearing? People who profess to live
conscientiously and to be guided by the spirit
of truth should certainly try to check any
spirit or influence of evil, and live in a differ-
ent element. And if people will talk scandal
or gossip let such understand they can have it
all to themselves.


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	MRS. ELISE M. Shipp. who has been East
recently, studying in the Woman's Medical Col-
lege in Philadelphia, has opened a series of
lectures to the medical class of ladies in this
city, who have been engaged in the study of
medicine and obstetrics for some time. Dr. S.
B. Young has taken great pains in lecturing to
this class for a long time. He has labored with
a great deal of zeal and perseverance to give
them all the information possible in courses of
lectures. They commence every Saturday
morning at ten o'clock at the Office of Wo-
man's Exponent. Mrs. Shipp's lectures will
be given immediately after, from eleven to

[Column 2]
twelve. To all the sisters who are seeking
information in this branch of science, a gener-
al invitation is given.
	We publish below a brief synopsis of Mrs.
Shipp's Introductory lecture.
	She opens her lecture by soliciting the
leniency of those to whom she is speaking in
consideration of her inexperience, but is most
anxious if she possesses any knowledge which
will benefit them to aid them in the pursuit
they have undertaken and help to lighten their
tasks, if she can do this effectually, then she
will have gained her object. After speaking
at some length on the subject of medicine and
the qualifications necessary for the attainment
of any proficiency in the science, she says, "es-
pecially with us as a people there should be no
such word as 'fail," for in addition to the nat-
ural capabilities of mind, we have to aid us
faith and the spirit of revelation." She then
points out a few of the necessary pre-requisites
to the successful student of medicine.
	First a natural love for the profession, both
theoretically and practically.
	Second, a strong will and firm determina-
tion of purpose that no common obstacle can
hinder.
	Third, The nerves should be strong, with
power to control the emotional nature.
	Fourth, The physical system in the highest
state of healthful perfection.
	Fifth, Suitable text-books.
	Sixth, Competent teachers.
	Seventh, Clinical advantages.
	Eighth, Undisturbed time.
	These are only a few she thinks, yet they are
the most essential. Love for the profession,
she places at the head of the list, believing it
to be of the greatest importance, knowing that
love for any object or pursuit, is the best incen-
tive for earnest work and application. She
points out the many attractions the study pre-
sents to those who desire to gain truth and
light and to feast their own souls, and then
adds that to benefit and bless our fellow crea-
tures, is the greatest and grandest aim
of mortals; that in God's kingdom there
should be no thought of self-aggrandizement,
but the welfare of His people.
	She advises those who enter upon this or any
other field of labor to fortify themselves
against all interference and discouraging influ-
ences, and after saying many plain and excel-
lent things with regard to this, she says: "that
with a resolute will and faith in God, none can
surpass the women of Utah whom the world
pities so supremely." She has said so many
good things that it is hard work to cull out the
main points, but we have not space to publish
more than these few items, but will add her
closing remarks.
	"The teacher in any phase of life, assumes
great responsibility, for it is no small undertak-
ing to attempt to express ideas in the most for-
cible manner and present them to others in
that light which will soonest illuminate their
minds. Especially is it so when our inter-
views are limited to one a week. It has been a
subject of much thought and reflection with
me, how and what to give you that will prove
most beneficial; I desire to give you ideas thatwill prove the greatest practical benefit. The
long, hard names in Anatomy, in fact the dull
abstract ideas in any branch given as mere
facts only, with which to tax the memory
will prove of very little utility in your pres-
ent circumstances.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	After spending many days at the great Cen-
tenial Exhibition in Philadelphia, of course
admiring the dif[--]rent specimens of the inven-


tive genius of ages, I was much surprised on
visining the Centennial Exhibition on Main
St. Salt Lake City, to find very many articles
comparing favorably with the best specimens
on exhibiiion at Philadelphia, though formed
out of the elements here in Utah. I have not
time to describe one of a hundred of these
truly fine and finished specimens of Utah in-
dustry, but would recommend any one doubt-
ing the comparison to go and see.
						W. O. CLARK.
	Ogden, July 17, 1876.
	"THE LIFE of Brigham Young, or Utah and
Her Founders," by E. W. Tullidge, is now com-
pleted and it is expected it will be for sale this
present month. We have had the pleasure
(through the courtesy of the author) to peruse
many of the proof sheets, and we believe it
to be a work that will counteract much of the 
prejudice now existing in regard to this peo-
ple. "One story is good, until another is told"
is an old adage, and Mr. Tullidge: has plainly
delineated the other side of the dark represen-
tations now extant concerning this people.
To those who really want to know the truth
we would recommend its perusal.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	37


OBITUARIES.

				TOOELE CITY, July 27th, 1876.
	SISTER REBECCA DEW, wife of Elder Thomas
Dew, departed this life the 24th of June, 1876.
She was born Feb. 15th, 1812, in Wiltshire,
England, was first baptized in 1843, emigrated
to Nauvoo in the spring of 1844, and was driv
en out of Nauvoo with the rest of the Saints in
1846; she was faithful and patient in all
the trials she was called to pass through.
In 1852 she removed to Tooele, where she re-
sided until her death. She suffered many years
with a cancer in her breast, and for the last ten
months was confined more or less to her room.
She lived and died in full faith of the Gospel.
Sister Drew was second counselor in our Relief
Society, and rejoiced very much in the society
of the Saints and the principles of the gospel.
She was always on hand in every duty or en-
terprise necessary for the building up of the
kingdom of God. A large procession of the
members of the Relief Society followed the re-
mains to the cemetery. and in accordance with
her request, that beautiful hymn of Miss E. R.
Snow's' "Oh My Father," was sung over the
grave, and she was laid away in peace to await
the morning of the resurrection.
									COM.


HARRIET McEVER, born on the Isle of Mott,
Lake Champlain, State of Vermont, Sept. 3d,
1809; was married in 1828 to Horace Roberts in
the State of Illinois. Was baptized into the
Church of Latter-day Saints in 1838 with her
husband. They joined the Saints at Nauvoo,
1839, where they lived until their expulsion.
She came with them through all their subse-
quent journeyings. She came to Utah in 1850,
and settled in Provo, was one of the first set-
tlers. She passed through many trials. Indian
wars, grasshopper wars, and all the privations
attendant on the early settlement of this
country.	Her husband died Dec. 25, 1858, af-
ter an illness of nearly three years. She rais-
ed nine children, six of whom are now living.
	She died Feb. 27th, 1876, after an illness of
fourteen months, with tumor in the stomach.
	She was a woman of iutelligence and good
judgment, loved and respected by all who
knew her, a kind friend and faithful wife and
mother, charitable and upright in all her in-


tercourse, ever ready to minister to the sick,
or comfort the sorrowing. She was humble in
prosperity and uncomplaining in adversity.
She died in full faith of the Gospel and in
hopes of a glorious resurrection.
							M. J. T.
	Provo, July 11th, 1876.

	AT OXFORD, Oneida Co., Idaho, Julia,
daughter of Martha Eliza, and Benjamin
Boice, died May 11th, 1876, of consumption,
aged 16 years, 1 month, and two days. Her
sister, Alnora Eliza, died June 11th, 1876, of
the same disease, aged 8 years and 28 days.
	Their mother died of consumption three
years prior to their death.
							M. A. BOICE.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAD a very pleasant call on Saturday
last from Mrs. A. J. Dunniway, Editor of
the "New North West," Portland, Oregon;
this lady has been well known to the public
for some years as a lecturer, an author, and
an editor. She is on her way to Philadel-
phia to deliver a centennial address at the
Woman's Convention, on taxation without
representation.


THE CELEBRATION JUBILEE.

	The Twenty-Fourth of July, 1876, the
anniversary of the day on which the pio-
neers entered this valley, was celebrated at
the New Tabernacle by the citizens of this
city. The audience was immense, number-
ing, it was thought, between nine and ten
thousand people. The Sunday School chil-
dren, probably about four thousand, occu-
pied the central part of the building. The
opening prayer was offered by Elder John
Taylor. Prof. C. J. Thomas led the singing
by the children, who sang first, "In our
lovely Deseret." Elder Orson Pratt was
the first speaker: he gave a historical sketch
of the entrance of the pioneers into this
valley in 1847. John G. Midgley delivered
an appropriate address, mentioning the
many hardships of the first pioneers of the
country, of the progress which had been
made, of the duties of this generation born
and reared under these circumstances; of
the evil influences to be avoided by the
young, and the responsibility which must
eventually rest upon them. While Mr.
Midgley was speaking, President Brigham
Young, the Chief of the pioneers and the
honored and esteemed leader of the Latter-
day Saints, entered the Tabernacle, and
after listening for some time to the music
and singing, he arose and addressed the con-
gregation in an affecting and eloquent man-
ner. At the conclusion he blessed the peo-
ple in the name of Jesus Christ, and by the
authority of the right and privilege assigned
him by the Holy Priesthood. The entire
proceedings were characteristic of the occa-
sion, and those who arranged the affair in
so short a time deserve the thanks of the
community.


[COLUMN 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

PARIS, BEAR LAKE CO., IDAHO,
	June 11th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Young Ladies Retrenchment Asso-
ciation of Paris was organized Feb. 19th,
1876, by Mrs. M. I. Horne. The officers
are as follows:

[COLUMN 2]

	Mrs. Deseret Rich, President,
	"	Caroline Humphreys,
	"	Harriet Williams,
	"	Adaline Passey,		Counselors.
	"	Anna Mowry,
	Miss Caddie Rich,
	"	Phebe Rich,
	"	Ursulia Pomeroy, Secretary.
	We hold our meetings once in three
weeks; they are always well attended, and
a good spirit prevails; all the young ladies
take a lively interest in the society. We
select pieces from the EXPONENT and other
good papers and books and read them which
proves to be a great benefit to us all. The
sisters of the Relief Society meet with us
occasionally, also President Rich and Bishop
Budge, they give counsel and advice which
is very encouraging. I really think that
most of the young ladies take more pleas-
ure in attending their Retrenchment meet-
ings than they do when attending balls or
theatres. For the past winter round-danc-
ing has been entirely abandoned in this
place; they had been favorite dances with
the young folks, it was hard for them to give
them up entirely at first; but the knowl-
edge that we were obeying counsel amply
repaid us for any regrets we might have
felt.
	We shall always remember Sister Horne
with respect and gratitude for her kind in-
structions and good advice while here, for
she truly had the interest and welfare of
the young at heart. The EXPONENT has
the best wishes of our society for its suc-
cess.
	URSULIA POMEROY, Sec'y.

	Eighth Annual Meeting of Sixteenth
Ward Relief Society.
	Sixteenth Ward School Rooms, S. L.
City, June 15, 1876. Meeting opened by
singing Arise O glorious Zion—Prayer by
Bishop F. G. Kesler. Singing, The Spirit
of God—Minutes of the previous meeting
read and accepted. Annual report as fol-
lows; beginning June 15, 1875, ending June
15th 1876:
Cash received............................. $ 106 75
Mdse. and produce.....................	69 75
Disbursements to poor, cash......	61 75
Mdse. and produce.....................	57 25
	Many good instructions were given and
Dianna Reid was ordained President of the
Society as we had been called to part with
our former President by death. Benedic-
tion by Geo. C. Riser.
	The ladies of the Relief Society had pre-
pared a splendid supper, and the young
ladies of the Retrenchment Association
waited on the tables; over one hundred par-
took of the supper, and it was indeed a
feast of spiritual as well as temporal food.
	Donated by the Society commencing June
15, 1868, ending June 15, 1876, $2000,47,-
95.
	PRESENDIA L. KIMBALL.
		Sec'y.
	Since our Annual Meeting we have had
a Widow's Party at the Sixteenth Ward
School Rooms; we gathered all the widows
in the ward and had a pleasant interview.
Bishop Kesler addressed us and we would
his words were written, for they were in-
deed like jewels. After we had partaken of
refreshments and all had been bountifully
supplied we scattered our picnic among the
poor of the ward, there were many baskets
full and it was a day of rejoicing for all
We were indeed much blessed in coming
together, and felt we were mutually bene-
fitted by each other's society.
	M. R. THOMPSON.


38		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			CORRESPONDENCE.

		SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES,
			AUSTRALIA, May 27th, 1876.
MRS. EMMELINE WELLS:
		MY DEAR FRIEND AND SISTER.
	Your welcome and very interesting let-
ter of Feb. 19th came to hand on the 6th
inst., but not in time for me to reply by re-
turn mail, as the mail steamer for San Fran-
cisco left Sydney the same day.
	I tender you many thanks for your kind
token of remembrance to me in this dis-
tant land where amid strangers "my pil-
grim feet now roam," and where I am dil-
igently laboring to dispel the sable clouds
of ignorance, bigotry, superstition and er-
ror from the minds of a people who seem to
be fettered in the galling chains of Priest-
craft, and who, judging from my stand-
point, are living without light, liberty or
God. From what I had read, and pre-
viously heard of Australia, I had formed a
very favorable opinion of the people, the
climate, the productions and the general
character and resources of these colonies,
and when the S. S. Colima entered the Syd-
ney harbor, which, I believe is acknowl-
edged to be the finest—(except one—in the
world,) I felt that nothing which I had ever
read or heard of Australia, had been exagg-
erated or in the least overdrawn.
	It was on the evening of Dec. 25th, the
sea during the day had been unusually
rough, and the steamer had been rolling and
plunging amoug the huge billows at a fear-
ful rate, so much so, indeed, as to awaken
within me such kind and benevolent feel-
ings towards all animated things in gener-
al, and towards the inhabitants of the
ocean in particular, that I gave them every
morsel of my Christmas dinner, and tried
hard to get up my boots to throw over-
board. Under these circumstances we
passed the "Light-house," situated on the
perpendicular rocks at the entrance of
Port Jackson, about eight miles from Syd-
ney. After passing "Heads," as these
rocks are denominated, and on entering the
bay the sea suddenly became calm, the ves-
sel ceased to roll, and everything around
seemed transformed as if by magic, to the
most peaceful tranquility, and heavenly se-
renity; the gentle zephyrs like angels of
peace, laden with sweetest fragrance, from
Oleander and Orange groves, came out to
meet us, as if to congratulate us upon our
safe arrival, and bid us welcome to the
spicy shores of Australia. And as the beau-
tiful "Colima," like a great white swan,
glided majestically up this lovely bay, and
the bright lights gleamed from the villages,
which lay nestled among the hills on either
side, and coupled with this enchanting
scenery, the cheering thought, that my
wearisome, unpleasant, and monotonous
journey from San Francisco, over the great
Pacific Ocean, was at an end, and that with-
in a few hours, I should once more, set my
feet on "Terra Firma," presented to my mind
the most bewitchingly beautiful, and lovely
picture that I had ever before contempla-
ted; and my soul was filled with love and
admiration for Sydney, and for several hours
of that night, I felt as the Queen of Sheba
must have felt, when visiting and behold-
ing the greatness and glory of Solomon. I
really felt that the half had not been told of
this beautiful and wonderful country, But
every picture hath its light and shade,
"sunshine and shadow" are the characteris-
tics of this life, and I have always endeav-
or to look at the bright side of every pic-
ture for I experience more pleasure in look-

[Column 2]
ing at the silver lining of the clouds than
in contemplating the dark shadows beyond
that lovely lining; hence, my favorable im-
pressions relative to Australia. But a few
weeks residence in Sydney, changed very
materially my ideas of these colonies.
	The country suffered during seven or
eight months of the past year, from a most
blighting and destructive drouth, very lit-
tle rain having fallen during that period,
consequently, so far as the vegetable pro-
ductions of the country are concerned I saw
everything at a great disadvantage, and for
this I am inclined to make due and full al-
lowance; but I have looked, and still look,
but in vain, for the bright side of the
lovely Sydney picture I fancied, before
treading on Australian soil; for if there be
but little good, I would like to find that
little, and in the language of the Poet—
"Speak of all the best I can," and in jus-
tice to the colony of New South Wales, I
will say that I have seen many things here
to admire. The safe and beautiful Harbor,
the Post Office and many other fine build-
ings, the Public Parks, the Botanical Gar-
dens, the free Public Library and Reading
Rooms, and the excellent condition of the
public roads, are all worthy of commenda-
tion. Many tropical fruits and flowers at-
tain here (in ordinary seasons) great perfec-
tion, and I have found some kind, intelligent
and hospitable people in and around Syd-
ney. The women here as a general rule, are
superior to the men both in looks and intel-
lectual development and culture. There
are many handsome and intelligent women
in Sydney, but I cannot fully agree with
what is frequently said of them, "that for
superior beauty and accomplishments, they
are pre-eminent."
	Now a few words in relation to the dark
shadows which I am compelled to see, not-
withstanding my natural inclination to look
on the other side. The "soocial status" of
the citizens of this city, I cannot but re-
gard as most deplorable; drunkenness pre-
vails to an alarming degree, and what makes
this debasing practice doubly dangerous
and demoralizing, is the fact, that women
as well as men, are addicted to it. I have
seen more drunken women in one day in
Sydney than I ever saw in Salt Lake City,
during my residence there of twenty-one
years. Nearly every corner house in this
city, is a liquor saloon, where spirituous and
fermented liquors are retailed; and the ven-
ders of this destructive beverage, in nearly
all cases are women, and the wages of a
"Bar-maid" are generally graded or regula-
ted, by her personal beauty or attractions;
the finest looking girls, demand and re-
ceive the highest wages. Domestic infelic-
ity here is the rule, and peaceful, happy
homes the exception. Wife beating, is a
common practice among the "lords of crea-
tion" in this land; many men (in form,) in-
dulge in this elevating practice with as lit-
tle compunctions of conscience apparently,
as an intelligent father would gently chide
his child with words of admonition and
counsel.
	Such is the state of Sydney morals, and
society, and yet, they will prate about Utah
and the Mormons, and Priests and people
will roll their eyes, and lift their hands in
holy horror, while contemplating the awful
oppression and galling slavery of the wo-
men of Salt Lake City; whose condition in
reality, and temporal blessings compared
with the women of Sydney, are as light to
darkness, or as heaven to hell, to say noth-
ing of the hopes of a glorious resurrection,
eternal unions beyond the grave, and ever-
lasting glory and exaltation in the pres-

[Column 3]
ence of God our heavenly and eternal Fa-
ther.
	God bless you my dear Sister, and aid
you in your laudable efforts to disseminate
through the medium of the EXPONENT
those principles and doctrines, which when
understood and observed, will redeem men
and women from the thraldom of sin and
oppression, will banish evil, the bane of
society, from the human heart, will enable
God's children dwelling on the earth to at-
tain to the highest type of manhood and
womanhood, and will usher in that happy
day, when one law will bind all nations,
kindred, tongues and people, and that law
will be the law of universal Brotherhood,
then will the earth be prepared for Jesus
our elder brother and Savior, whose right it
is to come and reign King of Nations as
He now reigns King of Saints.
	I am as ever, your friend and brother, in
the Gospel of Peace,
						ISAAC GROO,
	P. S. Remember me kindly and in love
to your family and inquiring friends, and
accept my sincere thanks for the EXPO-
NENT.
							I. G.


A MOTHER'S LESSON TO YOUNG
LADIES UPON DRESS.

	The rich dress and costly ornaments that
become maturer life, and ceremonious par-
ties in large cities, are unsuited to the very
young, who need no such "foreign aid."
Some persons toil early and late and strain
every nerve, to procure an expensive gar-
ment, and think, that once arrayed in it,
they will look as well as some richer neigh-
bor, whose style of dress they wish to im-
itate; but they forget, that if it does not ac-
cord with their general style of living, if it
is out of harmony with other things, it will
so strike everybody, and this want of fit-
ness will prevent it looking well on them.
Let a true sense of propriety of the fitness
of things regulate all your habits of living
and dressing; and it will produce such a
beautiful harmony and consistency of char-
acter, as will throw a charm around you
that all will feel, though few may compre-
hend. Always consider well whether the
articles of dress which you wish to pur-
chase are suited to your age, your condi-
tion, your means; the climate, to the par-
ticular use to which you mean to put them;
and then let the principles of good taste
keep you from the extremes of the fashion,
and regulate the form, so as to combine util-
ity and beauty, while the known rules of
harmony in colors save you from shocking
the eye of the artist with incongruous mix-
tures.
	The agreeable effect that all wish to pro-
duce in the eyes of others, depends much
more on just, proportions in the parts, thus
forming a pleasing whole, than on little or-
namental additions, which, though pretty
in themselves, add nothing to the general
effect. Thus in making a pelisse, it is all-
important that the cape should be of the
right size and shape, to agree well with the
sleeves and back, and that the collar should
be well proportioned to the cape; but it mat-
ters very little whether it have one or two
rouleaus of satin or velvet around it, or
whether it have none; and so it is with a
thousand other little particulars, which take
much time in the making and add much to
the expense, without really adding any-
thing to the general good appearance. It is
a happy thing for the diffusion of good
taste, that it may, in many things, be cul-
tivated without any pecuniary expense. The


[COLUMN 1]

price of colored muslin or printed calico, is
the same whether the figure be pretty or
ugly; the ribbon that is tastefully disposed
upon the bonnet, costs no more than the
one that is ill arranged. The shawl is the
same in value whether it is dragged round
the shoulders like an Indian's blanket, or
worn in graceful folds. It costs no more to
buy colors that harmonize than those that
do not. Indeed, true taste will generally
be found on the side of economy, because
simplicity is;—the first cost is thus lessen-
ed, and garments that are really well shap-
ed, are longer in favor. The exercise of
good taste, therefore, need not be consider-
ed the privilege of the few; it may regulate
the toilet of her who earns what she ex-
pends upon it, as well as for her whose bills
are paid by a rich father; the more it is
studies the more good sense and simplicity
will be consulted, because these are includ-
ed in the principles of true taste.
	Whilst taste may be made to regulate the
dress of all, even of the working classes,
wealth, unaccompanied by it, cannot com-
mand its beautiful results. Your clothes
may be ordered of the best dressmaker, and
everything you wear may be of the most
costly materials, and in the latest Paris
fashion; and yet you may spoil your appear-
ance by your manner of putting them on,
and by wearing those articles together
which do not accord. The most expensive
dresses at a ball are seldom those that pro-
duce the best effect; and nothing so effect-
ually defeats its object, as an excess of or-
nament. Some persons seem to have an
inherent love of finery, and seem to cling
to it pertinaciously, even when their under-
standings are convinced that it is repug-
nant to the feelings of refined minds, and
that it is a trait common to all barbarous
tribes: they cannot reason upon their pref-
erences—they can only say, that what oth-
ers condemn as tawdry, looks pretty to
them. This persuasion generally takes
place very early, and is much to be regret-
ed, as it prevents the growth of purer prin-
ciples. We have often thought that the
very bad taste in which dolls are usually
dressed, may have something to do with
this early love of finery. Children have of-
ten a real affection for their puppets; and
when they are bedizened in all the colours
of the rainbow, and decked in all the odds
and ends of finery that can be stuck upon
them, the little dears learn, by this associa-
tion, to love this tawdry ornament: whereas
a well-dressed doll would have an import-
ant influence in establishing a correct taste
in the mind of the child. We once knew a
family where the dolls were all very neatly
dressed, like babies and little children, and
not as fine ladies, on purpose to make them
a more rational and useful source of amuse-
ment; and we would beg all young ladies
who dress dolls for little girls, to do it in
such a manner as not to foster a love of fin-
ery.
	We have heard a mother who guarded
her daughters against this bad taste by mak-
ing it one of their childish punishments to
weak a very tawdry cap full of feathers, and
flowers, and bows of ribbons of all colours.
Judging by what we sometimes see worn
by grown up people, we might suppose that
such a cap had been their reward in child-
hood rather than their punishment, and was
thus recommended to their best affections.
The love of finery is rarely cured, and forms
an insurmountable obstacle to the cultiva-
tion of pure taste. Whosoever is conscious
of possessing it, ought to mistrust her own
judgment in matters of taste, and be will-
ing to take the advice of others. No plain-

[COLUMN 2]

ness of dress can ever be construed to your
disadvantage; but ornamental additions,
which in their best state are a very doubt-
ful good, become a positive evil when de-
faced, or soiled, or tumbled. Shabby feath-
ers, and crushed or faded artificial flowers,
are an absolute disgrace to a lady's appear-
ance; while their total absence would never
be remarked. Next to soiled stockings,
soiled bonnet-caps are the most offensive
things in a young lady's dress; and the lat-
ter are but too common. Whatever ap-
proaches the face should be particularly
clean; and it is better always to wear those
materials which will wash than to use silk
net after it is at all sullied by wear. Color-
ed gauze hankerchiefs, that are worn till
they are faded, or sullied, or the color
changed by perspiration, are a disagreeable
sight, and will spoil the neat appearance of
a person, however well dressed otherwise;
cleanliness being the first requisite in a
lady's dress.
	Such qualities of mind are brought into
action in connection with dress that we
cannot wonder at its having great influence
on the opinions that are formed of us. Who,
that sees a young lady very carefully array-
ed at a ball, and finds her when at home,
and not expecting company, in a torn or
soiled dress, can fail to draw conclusions un-
favorable to the character of the individual?
If you have a friend who has lately be-
come insolvent, and you see his daughters
appear, soon after, in new and costly gar-
ments, what are your feelings? Is not all
admiration of their costume lost, in the
sense of its betraying a want of common
honesty, thus to spend the money that be-
longs to their father's creditors? And does
not this exhibition of lax principles do
them more harm than any personal decora-
tion can do them good? Dress is a very fair
index of a young woman's neatness, indus-
try, economy, good sense, modesty, and
good taste; and she, who is at all times, in
her private as well as in her public hours,
perfectly well dressed, according to all that
we include in that term, must have many
of the substantial qualities that constitute a
good character and are essential to domes-
tic comfort. The character is much more
shown in the style of dress that is worn ev-
ery day, than in that which is designed for
great occasions; and when we see a young
girl come down to the family breakfast
in an untidy wrapper, with her hair in pa-
pers and her feet slip-shod, and an old silk
handkerchief round her neck, we know
that she cannot be the neat, industrious,
and refined person whom we would like for
an inmate. We feel equally certain too,
that her chamber is not kept in good order,
and that she does not set a proper value up-
on time. However well a lady has appear-
ed at a party, we would recommend to a
young gentleman, before he makes up his
mind as to her domestic qualities, to ob-
serve her appearance at the breakfast-table,
when she expects to see only her own fam-
ily; and, if it be such as we have just de-
scribed, to beware how he prosecutes the
acquaintance.
	To begin the day well it is necessary to
rise early enough to perform all the ablu-
tions necessary to health and cleanliness,
and to be neatly and completely dressed be-
fore breakfast. Your morning dress should
always be such that you would not be
ashamed to be seen in, by any accidental
visitor; and a clean muslin collar, or ruffie,
of the plainest materials, give an impress-
ion of far greater neatness than a colored
handkerchief. If you are suitably dressed
or the business of the morning, you are

[COLUMN 3]

ready to enter upon it at once and much
time is saved; you are not discomposed by
unexpected guests; and, if particularly en-
gaged, you can wear the same dress all day.
Very yonng girls are apt to think that the
most important item in their dress is the
material of which their frocks are made,
whereas that is really of the least conse-
quence. Clean stockings, neat shoes and
strings, smooth, well-brushed hair, and
delicately clean hands, nails, and teeth,
would make them look more lady-like, and
better dressed, in a cheap calico, than they
would be in the finest merino, or most costly
French silk without these accompaniments.
Those things which are most essential to a
neat appearance, are most within the reach
of everybody, and therefore the neglect of
them is not to be excused. Everybody can
mend stockings and gloves, however old
they may be; everybody can avoid break-
ing shoe-strings by wearing them too tight,
or having them become untied, by tying
them in false knots. Clean hands and nails,
and well-brushed hair and teeth, it is with-
in everybody's power to possess; and with-
out constant attention to these particulars,
the most expensive garments will fail to
produce the effect you desire. The same
honesty and self-respect which would keep
you from making a saving that you are
ashamed of, should prevent you wearing
anything, even out of sight, that you would
be ashamed to have seen, if sudden indisposi-
tion caused it to be exposed before stran-
gers. We should gladly adopt every con-
trivance for saving time and abridging the
labour necessarily bestowed upon dress.
Those who know how to use the needle af-
ter the best fashion of our grandmothers'
days, may next acquire the art of slighting
certain parts of their work, where it will
not interfere with durability, and so save
some thousand superfluous stitches in a
week. If it has been the misfortune of
any of my readers to have grown up with-
out being made good needlewomen, the
sooner they undertake to supply this defi-
ciency the better. A woman who does not
know how to sew is as deficient in her ed-
ucation as a man who cannot write. Let
her condition in life be what it may, she
cannot be ignorant of the use of her needle,
without incommoding herself and others,
and without neglecting some important du-
ties. Besides this, there is, in this truly
feminine employment, a moral power which
is useful to the sex. There is a soothing
and sedative effect in needle-work; it com-
poses the nerves, and furnishes a corrective
for many of the little irritations of domes-
tic life. Let no woman think herself ex-
empt from the duty of "plying the polish-
ed shaft." In every situation of life, she
will find herself the better for an early and
thorough acquaintance with plain sewing.
	SELECTED.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		39


LOVER'S MISTAKES.

	Many a man lives with a woman half a
lifetime without suspecting that the wife
of his bosom has really forgotten more than
he ever knew. Many a carpet-knight, who
plumes himself upon his wonderful skill in
smashing hearts, is being mentally meas-
ured and intellectually turned inside out by
the smiling girls whom he thinks he is
captivating. Many a veteran beau, who
pulls on his gloves to depart, feeling proudly
conscious of having made a profound im-
pression upon the soul of the belle who has
endured him for the evening, would be
wonderfully enlightened, if not edified,
could he hear the sigh of relief which es-
caped her lips when the clang of the door
announced his departure.


40		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Cure for Neuralgia:—Take horseraddish and
grate it, then mix in vinegar and apply it to the
temples if it is the face or head that is affected; to
the wrists if it is the arms or shoulders.
	Ivy Poisoning:—Bathe the affected, inflamed
or swollen parts of the body freely with sweet
spirits of nitre, three or four times during the
day; it is affirmed by those who have tried it that
it is a safe, simple, and effectual remedy.
	For Corns:—Take a lemon and roll it until it
becomes soft; then cut thin slices from it and bind
on the corns when retiring for the night; in the
morning if the corn is white and disintegrated,
pull it out, but never cut it. If one application
will not answer, keep on applying the lemon and
perseverance will accomplish it.
	Waking at Night:—Dr. Hall says if persons find
themselves inclined to wake up at any regular
hour in the night, the habit can be broken up in
three days, by getting up as soon as awake and
not retiring again until the usual hour; or by re-
tiring two hours later and rising two hours ear-
lier for three days in succession.
	Sleep for Children:—The rule for children's
sleep, says an eminent physician, is for children
between the ages of five and seven, about twelve
hours; children over that age ten hours and never
less than eight hours. The time for going to
sleep seven o'clock in summer and six in winter.
To adhere strictly to this rule, he observes,
would be decidedly beneficial to health, growth,
and development. The Doctor adds it would al-
so accustom them to a sense of punctuality and
obedience. It is a well-known fact that children
require more sleep than persons of maturer age.
If we would have a healthy race of men and wo-
men, we must give all possible attention to the
laws of life and health.


FLOWERS.

	THE best consistency is to be consistent
to one's self, by acting every day up to the
light of that day.
	To work out our own contentment we
should labor not so much to increase our
substance as to moderate our desires.
	PERSEVERE against discouragements.
Employ leisure in study, and always have
some work at hand. Be punctual and me-
thodical in business, and never procrasti-
nate. Maintain dignity without the ap-
pearance of pride.
	No person is so well qualified to discharge
the duties of life as one who has a tempera-
ment glowing and genial. Such a one above
all others, is able to bring to the discharge
of duty such happiness as is necessary to
persistency.
	GREATNESS lies not in being strong, but
in the right using of strength; and strength
is not used rightly when it serves only to
carry a man above his fellows for his own
solitary glory. He is the greatest whose
strength carries up the most hearts by the
attraction of his own.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	FRENCH statistics show that woman is
six times less criminal against person, four
times less criminal against property, and
twice less hardened a criminal than man.
The recently published record also proves
that maternity is a better shield than pater-
nity against bad life. Of 1,000 female
criminals 261 are mothers, and of 1,000
male criminals 324 are fathers.


THE population of some of the largest
cities in the world at the present time, by
good authority, is as follows: Paris, 1,851,-
792; New York, 1,046,000; Berlin. 980,000;
Philadelphia, 800,000; Vienna, 676,791;
Naples, 451,000; Brooklyn, 450,000; Ham-
burg, 370,000; Rome, 256,153; Copenhagen,
199,000, Brussels 188,264; Florence, 176,-
000; Christana, 75,000.
	IN England and Wales there are 810 co-
operative societies with a membership of
357,821; a capital of £4,151,634; annual
sales amounting to about £14,000,000; with
profits £1,070,000; expenses of manage-
ment £601,000. In Scotland, 216 societies
with 54,431 members, £338,946 capital,
£2,062,000 sales, £155,000 profits, and £76,-
300 expenses of management.


FACT FOR DARWIN;—"What's your
name?" said an officer to a young colored
lad, who joined his ship at the cape. "Al-
goa Bay, sir," "Where were you born?"
"Wasn't born at all." "Wasn't born at all?"
"No Sir; was washed ashore in a storm!"


[Column 1]
	TEASDEL'S,
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

	DAVID JAMES,
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jaws,)
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER,
			AGENT FOR
	RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		PUMPS REPAIRED ON SHORT NOTICE.
	Orders from the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

			F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
	and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
				Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House. 

	HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
	Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD, Four
	doors below Walker House, and examine our
	goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
	lake pleasure in making to order, such
		brushes as we have not on hand.
						Wm. H. MILES, Supt.
[Column 2]
R. MATTHEWS & CO.,
		Manufactures of
ESSENCE OF JAMICA GINGER,
	TOILET SOAP, (Highly Perfumed,)
BATH SAND TABLETS,
		Indispensable to the Toilet and Bath Room.
SCOURING SOAP,
		A great Saving of Labor to the Housekeeper.
SUPERIOR WRITING FLUID.
	One of the best flowing and durable Inks ever made.
	We Warrant our Articles Pure.
			JOSEPH L. BAR[-]OOT, Chemical Director.
Adres		R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
	Lock Box, 106[-].		Salt Lake City.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Is now prepared for the Spring Trade, with all the
lastest styles of Hats and Bonnets, and newest shades of
Silks and Ribbons. Flowers in endless variety.
	Ladies attending Conference should call and see her
fine assortment, which cannot be excelled in quality and
price.				17, East Temple street,
				TEMPLE OF FASHION. 

	Z. C. M. I. 
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
				in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
 	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

	THE KIND OF
BOOTS AND SHOES
	EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
			priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
	At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
			D. M. McALLISTER, Supt.

			LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substantia.
		Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
					them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
	They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
			BUTTER and EGGS,
					F. GOSS, Supt.

	EVERY DESCRIPTION
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
			AND
		GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

				H. E. PHELPS,
					29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

	H. DINWOODEY,
		WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
FEATHERS, WALL PAPER
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
76, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

