VOL. 5	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1877.	No. 16.


HOROSCOPE.

My baby sleeps: his precious head is laid
Upon my arm close to my happy heart.
In all the beauty of sweet infancy,
And heavenly innocence, and undefiled,
Angelic purity, he nestles close
Within my sheltering arms; and, gazing now
Upon thy fair, unconscious face, my son,
And feeling deep within my love-rapt heart
The countless worth of one pure infant soul,
My spirit kindles with the living glow
Of prophecy; to-night I could withdraw
The close-drawn vail between the fleeing now,
And that bright realm of hope futurity,
And say, dear child, what life will bring to thee.

My mother-heart, with all its love and pride,
Would crown thee king in heart and mind and soul,
Without one mortal frailty strong enough to chain
Thy heavenward aspiring soul to earth.
It pictures thee so strong that thou canst lend
A helping hand to all the weak and frail;—
So brave that courage shall ignite anew
The failing fires of hope in many a heart
Whose lamp of faith is flickering dim and low,
And from whose failing arm the strength is gone;—
So great the meanest never fear to claim
Their little due, their modest consequence;
So pure that gold, though seven fold refined
Is base alloy beside thy spotless worth,
And Christ himself, though Lamb of Innocence,
Might well delight to share with thee His crown.
Oh, joy! I will the mystic vail unclose
And feast my soul upon this vision bright,
And bask in light thus shining from afar,
And bless my motherhood thus glorified!

But stay! a shadow gloomy, strange and chill,
Falls o'er the glowing presage fancy wrought,
And bids me, sorely 'gainst my willingness,
See, what might be the bitter opposite—
My noble giant weak, and frail, and vile;
Speed like mad charges to the gulf of death;
This lily hand, which I so fondly kiss,
Imbued in some weak brother's welling blood;
This seraph brow black with the brand of Cain.
This incense breath hot with the fumes of wine;
And, reeking with the foul narcotic weed,
These censer lips pollute with blasphemy;
Woe! shame! My brain grows sick and wild
My tortured fancy shrinks aghast—appalled
I dare not look! Oh, draw the curtain close,
Lest I be seared in heart, and brain, and eye.
Thou God of love, and could it then be so,
That this white soul could grow so black and vile?
Oh! rather take him to thy heart of love,
mind leave me on the earth without a child.

I strain my cherub to my bursting heart,
And shower tender kisses, fervent prayers,
And tears of grief and love upon his head.
Love is so strong, and yet so powerless
To hedge the loved one in from danger dire!
I can but pray; 'tis he—this child—alone
Who must the fearful conflict win or lose.
I can but feebly arm the unskilled hand,
Almighty God, but thou canst make it strong.—
The waves of thought sweep swiftly on and on
Till, through my love-born, deep anxiety,
Unto my troubled heart the "still small voice"
Breathes low and sweetly, "Peace, be still!"

Though earth be overrun with craft and guile,
And men defile their bodies and their souls,
And say God sleeps, and neither hears nor sees
Their deep iniquities, I am awake!
I have reserved unto this fearful day,
Unto myself a chosen noble few.
To come forth now—to shine on earth
A living light that all who will may see.
Let thine be one: and do thou watch and pray,
And pour into his soul my living word
To be his spirit's light 'mid deepest dark,
His sure defense whatever foes assail;
His arm of strength to raise my fallen ones;
His heart of grace the weakest ne'er to scorn;
His rock of faith which shall forever stand;—
Do this, O mother, and be strong of heart,
For all who trust in Me shall surely find
My word returns not void; nor one true soul
Will I forsake:—Remember I am God."
	LU DALTON.


[Column 1]
				LETTER.

						Dec. 28th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A sense of gratitude impels this attempt
to address you, and a species of gratitude
that only the "absent one" can feel for
aught which speaks of home and its beloved
associations. I do not wish you to think
your little paper is unappreciated; it is a
regular and truly welcome visitor, and its
contents I peruse with the deepest interest,
especially the accounts of the noble efforts
of our sisters to carry out the counsels of
our President. How nobly they are work-
ing: and truly the results of past endeav-
ors have proven what the united efforts of
faithful women can accomplish. Who can
but recognize the important role played by
WOMAN in every community. No organiz-
ation is complete without her influence, and
whree is her influence more potent and
more freely acknowledged than among the
Latter-day Saints. The world regard Po-
lygamy as degrading and lowering, and as
the great circumscriber of the intellectual
faculties of woman, but how well do we
know the contrary to be the truth, and un-
derstand the great advantages of a family
organized upon this elevated plan. Every
wife is benefitted both temporally and spir-
itually, and her sphere becomes broader,
grander and holier. Not only can we per-
form the sacred duties of wife and mother,
so dear to every true woman's heart, but
our usefulness can extend to other great
and glorious fields, and we can be as co-
workers with our brethren in rolling forththe great work of the Latter days.
	In addition to the counsel to organize in-
to Relief and Retrenchment Societies—the
great blessing of which all Israel can but
acknowledge—we have had many other im-
portant counsels, which the majority of our
sisters have faithfully endeavored to put
into execution, and the results have gener-
ally proven satisfactory, because our Father
is the great instigator of all.
	Cultivate the mulberry and manufacture
silk; make your own hats and bonnets, and
"let your adornments be the workmanship
of your own hands." In short the idea is,
sustain home manufacture in every sense of
the word, by your faith, your prayers, your
patronage, and by conducting and sustain-
ing an institution wherein home products
may be bought and sold.
	And now the word is, "Sisters, go thou to
and save the grain." What a mission! Do
we feel sufficiently the responsibility? Truly
it should be regarded as the "word of the
Lord," and we should understand that all
assist in this enterprise by retrenching
from every superfluity and practising wise
economy.
	Then let us all be gleaners, that the great
Reaper may not be forced to chastise us for
extravagance, or indolence, but seeing our
faithfulness and diligence, will, as in that
harvest time of old, leave for us "a few
bundles by the wayside."

	Then, sisters, work with woman's will,
	And all the bins and gran'ries fill;
	Yes, every mother, sister, wife
	Save grain for "bread—the staff of life."
	That when the time so long declared

[Column 2]
	Shall come, we'll not be unprepared;
	Save every penny, nickel, dime—
	Lay by your frills and ribbons fine,
	Retrench from all that will not give
	Results to teach us how to live
	According to the counsels given
	By noble men inspired of Heaven.

	Praying for the success of the EXPONENT
and all other efforts of our sisters to obey
counsel, I remain
	Your sister in the Gospel,
							I. V. H.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	CONGRESS RECEIVED on Tuesday, Jan. 2;
the staues of Adams and Winthrop, as
the gift of the State to the Pantheon in the
old Hall of Representatives at Washington.
	"HISTORY AND Description of the Cen-
tennial Exhibition.". In a very attractive
volume, Edward C. Bruce condenses a his-
tory of the late Centennial Exhibition; and
by the aid of pen and picture brings the
whole event before the reader in a living
panorama. It will be of great interest to
those who visited the Exposition.
	AS HAS been mentioned, the next Inter-
national Exhibition will be at Paris; con-
tracts for the buildings and other works are
already given out, and it is announced that
the opening will be on the 1st of May, 1878.
The Prince of Wales has authorized the
British amdassador at Paris to declare, in
his name, that he will send for exhibition
the fine collection of interesting and pre-
cious objects that he brought with him from
the East.
	TEMPORARY STARS are occasionally dis-
covered in the heavens which suddenly
flare up with intense brightness, remain
shining a while, and then dwindle down to
very small stars or disappear entirely. On
November 24 a brightly radiating star was
seen in the constellation of Cygnus by an
astronomer at the observatory in Athens,
Greece. On December 20 this new star was
found and examined at the Litchfield Ob-
servatory of Hamilton College. It was
then greatly reduced in size from what it
was when first seen. The most remarkable
temporary star on record is the Nova of
Tycho Brahe, that appeared in 1572 in Cas-
siopeia. It became bright as Venus, and
was even visible in the daytime. It could
be seen with the naked eye for seventeen
months.
	REFERENCE WAS made some time ago to
a plan for the fertilization of Africa, by the
submerging of the desert of Sahara through
a canal which would let in the waters of the
Mediterranean. This seems to have been
abandoned, as it was feared that very great
meteorological changes might be produced
thereby, which might be prejudicial. It is
now proposed to submerge a part of North
Africa by a canal from the Gulf of Gabes,
letting in the waters of the Mediterranean
westwards, over the lake region of Djerid;
and this scheme is said to be not only prac-
ticable, but likely to prove remunerative;
the area being comparatively small, and the
meteorological changes likely to be slight,
quite local, and beneficial.


122		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS

	The General Retrenchment meeting, held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, Dec. 23rd, 1876, was presided
over by Mrs. M. I. Horne, who had been for
some time absent, and who expressed her-
self gratified to be again at home with the
sisters, who were co-workers with each
other in the great work of the improvement
of the spiritual and temporal condition of
the saints. She called the attention of the
sisters to the many duties to be performed,
and the necessity of diligence and faithful-
ness; she referred to the preparation the
sisters had been called upon to make in re-
spect to the future, when famine, pestilence
and destruction would visit the nations.
She exhorted the sisters to pray for wis-
dom, and listen to the still small voice bear-
ing witness in their hearts to the words of
eternal life. She referred the sisters to the
subject of the closing year, and entreated
them to consider well their opportunities
and blessings, and desired that each one of
those who had taken upon them the name
of Saint should honor it and improve
every good gift or talent, and devote them-
selves to the great work of reformation and
redemption. She told the sisters God had
revealed His relationship to the children of
men, and it devolved upon all to seek
mightily to carry out the Savior's golden
rule, "To do unto others as we would they
should do unto us," and overcome the self-
ishness which has become so general all
over the world, and penetrated into the
church and kingdom of God.
	Counselor Miss E. R. Snow then address-
ed the meeting upon the subject of punctu-
ality; said it was not only the key to busi-
ness but to the confidence of the people; it
is one of the essential traits of character to
cultivate, and should be carefully observed.
Counselor Zina D. Young and herself had
been North and held meetings in Harris-
ville, Mariot, and met with the brethren
and sisters in Kaysville. They found the
people waking up considerably to the inter-
ests and welfare of Zion. She spoke con-
cerning the Lamanites, and some manifest-
ation s that had been given to the sisters,
and gave much valuable instruction.
	Counselors Zina D. Young and Bathsheba
W. Smith and several other sisters spoke
upon subjects which are applicable to the
present time.

				TOOELE, Jan. 5, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	We wish to say a few words to our sisters
through your columns, to let them know
how we are prospering, and if possible to
give some poor encouragement to others
who are trying to walk in the same narrow
path. We opened our new Hall on the 22d
of December, to help defray some of the
building expenses, and I can say our party
was quite a success. We partook of supper
prepared by the several sisters in the school-
house opposite the new Hall; about seventy
sat down to the tables which were luxuri-
antly supplied with the good things of the
earth. A good spirit and feeling prevailed
throughout the entertainment; those who
participated in the dance enjoyed it ex-
ceedingly, and harmony and union charac-
terized the assembly. The sisters in every
ward donated liberally in the way of provi-
sions and delicacies, and there was an abun-
dance left to distribute among the poor and
also to the poor Indians, who have not yet
learned the art of cultivating the soil, and
supplying themselves with the comforts
they see us enjoying. Nothing was lost or

[Column 2]

wasted, and a great deal of good must be
the result of such gatherings.
	On the 25th another party was given for
the same purpose, viz., to receive means to
help defray expenses of the building of
the Hall. The sisters of the Relief Society
are alive to their duties; we have some-
thing near one hundred bushels of wheat
laid up for a future day, for those emergen-
cies which have been predicted. We feel
thankful for the knowledge given us through
inspiration, that we may prepare ourselves
and thus escape some of the many calam-
ities which will transpire in the last dispen-
sation. We meet every two weeks in the
new meeting house, when we enjoy the
Spirit of the Lord, and those who attend
regularly feel desirous to do all in their
power to help roll on the work of redemp-
tion. Our President, Sister Micklejohn, is
earnest in exhorting the sisters to become
united and live their religion to its truest
sense and spirit. Your excellent paper is
read with great interest, and the best
wishes are expressed for the advancement
of every good work.
	We remain your sisters &c.,
		EMILY WARBURTON, Sec'y.
			ANN YATE, Ass't Sec'y.

	EPHRAIM, SANPETE Co., Dec. 13, 1876.
	By request of our President, Mrs. S. A.
Petersen, I send you a report of what the
sisters in Ephraim are doing about the
"storing of Grain." The Sisters of the re-
lief Society went out in the harvest field
one day each, to glean; they gleaned fifty
bushels. They have also made cheese and
and jeans which they have sold; and pieced
up patch-work quilts and obtained one hun-
dred and seventeen bushels more, making
one hundred and sixty-seven bushels be-
longing to the Society.
	In addition to this our President has pro-
posed a plan, that as many sisters as choose
to co-operate together and take shares, one
bushel of wheat being a share, the wheat to
be untouched until a time of famine. This
wheat to be earned by the sisters them-
selves not troubling their husbands about
it at all; and strive to increase the amount
of their shares until famine puts a stop to
their exertions in that line. Several sisters
have taken shares, some one, some two,
some five, according to their ability. The
shares already taken amount to one hun-
dred and thirty-three bushels; so we have
altogether, three hundred bushels. The
Bishop has promised us a bin in the new
store-house when it is finished. The sis-
ters are alive to their duties in the Gospel,
and in all the labors pertaining to the
kingdom.
	I will close with best wishes for your
happiness.
	AGNES ARMSTRONG.

	PAYSON, Jan. 4, 1877.
Editor Exponent:
	At a meeting held by the Relief Society
Dec. 6, 1876, B. J. Simons was chosen
President of the Purchasing Committe,
Mrs. Martha Simons, Mrs. Susan Fair-
banks and Mrs. Clarissa Moore to solicit do-
nations and purchase grain, Mrs. Ann Mat-
tison and Mrs. Sarah Ann Reece Assistants,
Mrs. Agnes Douglas Treasurer, Mrs. M. A.
Hardy Secretary.
	We have on hand nearly one hundred
bushels of wheat with a prospect of more;
the sisters feel with our President and
Counsel that the move is a grand one; and

[Column 3]

they all desire to be one with their sisters
in Salt Lake City and throughout Utah in
aiding, with all their might and strength,
to roll on the great work in which we are
all engaged; they join with me in love,
wishing you a happy New Year.
	I deeply sympathize with our dear sister
Mrs. L. Greene Richards in the death of
her little girl, having buried five children
myself. How sweet were the words that
flowed from her pen in the Exponent of
Nov. 15th; may our Heavenly Father bless
and comfort her
	Your sister &c.,
		M. A. HARDY.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

			PLAIN CITY, Jan. 6, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	We have just had our first meeting, to
talk about the call there was made on us to
store up grain as helpmeets in the kingdom
of God. We are all willing to do the best
we can with the little means we have; our
President says we can afford to buy fifty
bushels at ninety cents per bushel. We
have got a good bin to store it in, and hope,
by the help of God and of our brethren,
we will still add to it an abundant supply
in the future. Thare is no sickness in our
place, nor starving poor.
	God bless you and all who try to do right
is the prayer of your sister in the Gospel,
				A. C. HEDVIG HANSEN.

				SANTAQUIN, Jan. 3, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In accordance with your wishes, I write
to inform you that the Relief Society of
this place has responded to the call in rela-
tion to storing grain. A good spirit pre-
vails among the sisters, and all feel willing
to carry out the counsel of President Young
in regard to storing up grain.
	Bro. August Tietgen has kindly given
us the use of one of his wheat bins, until
our good brothers can build us a granary.
The sisters have nobly and liberally given
according to their circumstances, and have
donated at present sixty-five bushels, and
the stream still continues. We feel willing,
with the help of our Father in heaven, to
do all we can in storing up grain for our
temporal salvation; and, dear sisters, when
we have secured the grain, let us be faith-
fnl stewards over the same, and, putting
our trust in God, leave the event with Him.
	I remain your sister in the Gospel,
				ELIZABETH J. STICKNEY.

			BEAVER CITY, Jan. 3, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	I wish to add to the testimony of my sis-
ters a few thoughts and suggestions in re-
gard to the interests in which the women of
Utah are engaged. I feel a great interest
in the EXPONENT; I would rather miss a
meal of victuals daily than be without it.
Times are dull and money scarce, but I know
the feelings of the greater number are that
the EXPONENT should be sustained as well
as to attend to every other call made upon
us now—the laying up of grain, assisting
msssionaries, caring for our own poor, the
Woman's Book, and sundry other duties
and responsibilities. We have built a gran-
ary sufficiently large to hold four or five
hundred bushels of grain, and have placed
a small quantity of grain in it, and we in-
tend to add to it as fast as it is in our power,
and also to build a larger building when
needed for our increased supplies.
	Your sister &c.,
					RUTH W. TYLER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		123


For the EXPONENT.
A VOICE FROM AN ABSENT ONE.

The wintry day, now drawing to its close,
Invites all wearied nature to repose,
And shades of night are falling dense and fast,
Like sable curtains closing o'er the past.
Pale, through the gloom, the newly fallen snow
Lays like a shroud upon the earth below;
As though, in mercy, God had spread the p[-]ll—
A symbol of forgiveness to us all.
The flood of thought, which struggles to be free,
Now opens wide the gates of memory;
Love lights the way, and, guided by its beam,
My soul floats on the surface of the stream.
I cannot go to rest, but linger still
In meditation at the window sill,
While, like the twinkling stars in heaven's dome,
Come, one by one, sweet memories of home.
And wouldst thou ask me where my fancy roves
To reproduce the happy scenes it loves?
Where hope and memory together dwell,
And paint the pictured beauties that I tell?
Far, far away, among the Western hills
And gardens watered by the mountain rills:
Where giant peaks uprear their heads so high
The cloud capped-summits seem to pierce the sky;
Where smiling valleys, from the desert torn,
Redeemed, are waving with their golden corn;
Where virtue, truth and innocence, allied,
Are held in veneration—far and wide;
Where sweet religion in its purity
Invites all men to its security:
There is my home—the spot I love so well—
Whose modest worth and beauty few can tell—
Away beyond the prairies of the West,
Where exiled saints, in solitude, were blessed;
Where industry the seal of wealth has set
Amit the peaceful vales of Deseret.
Unheeding still, the fiercest blasts that blow—
With tops encrusted by eternal snow—
The peaks, with bases set on rock-bound sod,
Stand, types of freedom, reared by nature's God.
The winter snows melt, part, in summer's beams,
And from the canyons rush the crystal streams—
Our God protects the church of His first born—
And winds are tempered to the lamb that's shorn—
Divinity the bounteous means supplies
A desert to reclaim and fertilize.
Throughout this place, for nine and twenty years,—
Since, first, the little band of pioneers
Explored the waste, and opened up the way
For those who followed at a later day—
Have lived a people, honest, firm and g[-]o[-];
Who, by their mighty faith in God, withstood
The wrath of man and nature, in a cause
Which comprehended His eternal laws.
The wilderness that naught, before, could yield,
Is now become a fertile, fruitful field:
Where roamed at will the savage Indian bands,
In pride and wealth a peaceful city stands.
All men who seek the truth are welcome there;
All followers of Christ their bounty share;
And all, who cast base prejudice away
And let impartial judgment bear the sway,
Will find a virtuous people, falsified
To whom a freeman's just right is denied. 'I
Sweet Mountain Home! The refuge of the world—
Though persecution's rage is at thee hurled,
Thou shalt stand firm, for God in thy defense,
Will waste thy foes with war and pestilence.
This is His promise—will He break it? No,
We've proved Him oft, and know it must be so.
Then be we brave as lions—meek as doves—
For such our Father, in His wisdom, loves.
Heed not the slander of the evil tongue,
Nor doubt, the hand of God is o'er us hung.
Has He not said—"The weak of earth I take
The power of the worldly wise to shake?"
And has he not, in many scenes now past,
Proved that he will be with us to the last?
Then let each simple daily action prove
That we are striving to deserve His love.
"Feed and clothe the poor, comfort those who mourn"
And heal the wounded heart by sorrow torn,
Keep His commandments—to all men be true,
"Do unto others as we'd have them do;"
And let our faith and trust unaltered to
In God—through time and all eternity.
									O. F. W


"AM you familiar wid de Talmud?" asked
a literary African of a sable brother; to
which the latter responded, "De tall mud?"
"Yes, sah, to de tallest kind ob mud. I'm
a native of New York and to de mud and
manner born."


[Column 1]
		NOTES ON TEMPERANCE.

	TO THE SUNDAY SCHOOLS OF AMERICA.

	We are sometimes told that total absti-
nence is not temperance. What is tem-
perance? Let me give you a short reply.
Temperance is the lawful gratification of a
natural appetite. Is the appetite for intox-
icating liquors a natural appetite? No.
Therefore temperance is total abstinence
from intoxicating liquors as a beverage.
	This principle is a sensible principle.
When you are as old as I am, you will re-
gret many things you have learned in the
past; but you will never regret that you
did not learn to use intoxicating liquor. I
have never met a person, nor do I believe
you can find the person in the world who
would say, "I am fifty years of age, and
never drank a glass of liquor in my life;
and I regret that I did not learn to drink it
when I was young." No. When you meet
with one who has never drank, he tells you,
"I am glad of it," or, "I am proud of it."
A man once called on me, and said; "I am
not a reformer. I care little for reforms, or
missions, or Sunday schools. They are all
very well in their way, but they are not in
my line. I have been an actor since I was
eighteen, and I am now forty-three, and I
never drank a glass of ale, wine or spirits in
my life. What do you think of that?" I
am pooud of it. He had little care for re-
form, but he never drank liquor in his life,
and was proud of it.
	Dear children, you would be shocked if
you could read some of the letters that lie
in my desk, and that have been written to
me by persons of all grades of society—
young men, old men, lawyers, physicians,
ministers of the Gospel, teachers, mechan-
ics, clerks, and some ladies—who have ac-
quired the appetite for strong drink. One
says, "Dives in hell never longed for a drop
of water, as with all the power there is in
me I long for drink." Another says, "Is
there any hope for me this side of the
grave?" Another says, "God knows how
near I have been to self destruction through
drink," and so on.
	One poor man, actually holding my feet,
cried out, "O! help me out of this hell,
Drink is my curse." Yes, dear children,
the cry comes from the inmates of the lu-
natic asylums, "Drink is my curse;" from
the state prisons, "Drink is my curse;"
from innocent victims—wives, mothers,
children, "Drink is my curse;" from the
burning lips of the dying drunkard comes
the despairing cry, "Drink is my curse."
There are broken hearts, blighted hopes,
blackened characters, crushed intellects,
and lost souls as the results of strong drink,
and not a single individual but rejoices in
his escape from it.
	Is not the total abstinence principle sen-
sible? "But all who drink do not become
drunkards." I know that; but if fifty
young men begin to drink, some will assur-
edly be rnined by it. Then there is a risk.
Now we all desire safety and security.
Suppose you desire to travel from New
York to Chicago, and there were two lines
of road—one on which there were accidents
constantly occurring; on every train some
disaster, passengers killed and wounded; in
short, a very risky road;—and on the other,
never since its opening had there been the
slightest accident. Which road would you
take? If you are sensible, and regard your
own welfare, you would take the safe one.
Suppose some one should tempt you to take
the risky road, by telling you how much
more beautiful the cars were, and what a

[Column 2]
jolly company you would find on board the
train. You would say, "I care not so much
for the gaudy cars and jolly company as for
my safety. I want to be safe." Now it is
your safety we seek, when we urge you to
abstain entirely from strong drink. There
is no certainty that you will become vic-
tims if you begin to indulge, but there is a
risk.
	Some say, "I can govern myself; I have a
mind of my own." What would you think
of a captain of a steam vessel who would
put on a full head of steam, and then knock
down the man at the wheel? Or, of a con-
ductor on a railroad, who would let on the
steam and then disable the engineer? You
would say he was a reckless man. The
steamer or the engine might get through
without accident, but it might go crashing
to destruction. So when a person, using
that which weakens the power of his will,
depends on his weakened will to serve him,
—using that which warps his judgment,
and then depends on his warped judge-
ment to guide him,—using that which af-
fects his self-control, and then trusts his de-
ranged self-control to keep him from dan-
ger—he is reckless. Simply because some
men drink and do not become drunkards,
can you? I once saw a man stand on
a small platform outside the spire of a
church, and looked down on the pavement
150 feet below. Because he did it, can you?
Think of these things before you run the
risk, ank remember what the risk is.
	You have, under God, the future in your
power; your destiny in your own control.
Remember there is no one evil in the world
before which so many fall, as the evil of in-
temperance.
	I most earnestly desire that the youth of
our country, especially our Sabbath-school
scholars, shall give all their influence
against this great evil. May God help you
to avoid the perils in life's journey, and the
traps that are set for your feet, so that from
your place of safety you may reach out
your hand to help the tempted who are
sturggling in their chains, and may by self-
denial be enabled to "fulfill the law of 
Christ," by helping some poor, burdened
souls into the higher life of purity and
freedom!—Messenger of Peace.


A POPULAR "SAVING'S BANK."

	An exchange says:
	"A saving woman at the head of a family
is the very best savings bank yet establish-
ed."	Possibly, but there is small incentive for
a woman to establish these banks, for after
a long life of rigid economy and careful
painstaking the entire accumulations are
beyond her reach and belong solely in law
as well as in name to her husband. The
use of one-third during her lifetime, and
the "bank" building rent free for one year
to live in after the death of the husband is
by men's laws and enactments deemed suf-
ficient compensaaion to the woman to whom
by common consent is accorded the credit
of saving the whole. Women who have to
"pray the court for relief" in the shape of a
monthly stipend for the support of them-
selves and children and find this doled out
to them from their own "savings bank,"
according to a stranger's judgment of their
needs, understand this matter. While
present customs obtain, we don't advise
any woman to deny herself anything that
the finances of the firm will purchase, in
order to build up a future over which she
has no control.—Ex.


124		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,	} Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.		}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one-year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JAN. 15, 1877.


[Column 1]
		WORK FOR A PURPOSE.

	There has just arisen for man and woman-
kind another year; with each successive year it
is customary to take a g[-]ance of retrospection
over the past one and contrast it with what
one had previously thought to accomplish.
There seems to be allotted to all persons a cer-
tain round of duties which some seem bound
to perform faithfully, and others dally over or
neglect. To the diligent it is always a source
of unpleasantness not to be able to do all that
seems necessary. If men or women resolve to 
approach a certain standard of excellence and
catch up all the little tangled threads dropped
inadvertently as they travel on the great high-
way of life, they must exercise all the energies
and fortitude they possess and even then it 
will be no easy sask. One great advantage the
diligent and constant worker has, is a freedom
from melancholy; regular work cheers the 
spirits and enlivens many otherwise lonely
hours. It is an antidote for sadness and de-
spondency. People live longer and enjoy life
more completely who have a settled object in 
view.	There is a great work to be done in this gen-
eration and those who are interested in the 
welfare of posterity should be willing and anx-
ious to take up their share of duties and respon-
sibilities and become co-workers with those
who are laboring-assiduously for a great pur-
pose.
	Was there ever a time when there were
more noble incentives to prompt men and wo-
men to action than now? The great vineyard
of the Lord needs more laborers; the bv-ways
and highways are thronged with idlers who 
hinder the workers from accomplishing their
duties and tasks, and offer all sorts of reasoning
and excuses for neglects, and sneer at and r[-]d-
icule the patient, earnest ones and reach out to 
them inducements to falter and linger and
neglect the field of labar. "There is no need
of me" is echoed here and there, "I can pur-
sue my own course and it will be quite as re-
munerative and more congenial, why should I 
trouble myself about the general welfare of
others. I can lead my own life." Yes a pur-
poseless one so far as eternity is concerned,
but pause, all mankind owe the world the best
solutions drawn from varied experiences and
phases of life. All these incidents help to an-
alyze the mysterious problem of the truest
aims and surest success in life. We do not
mean to be understood as alluding to success in 
monetary interests, but to the wisest most judic-
ious and safe control and guidance of all the 
gifts of God to mankind. He has placed His
children here to learn certain lessons, to gain
knowledge of high and exalted principles, and
work out such problems as shall best subserve

[Column 2]
His truest interests. The human body is in all
probability the finest workmanship of the great
Master Architect; and to understand the uses
and applications of all functions and faculties
God has given to man and woman, and make a
proper and just use of time, opportunities and
talents, is something greatly to be desired.
With all the eloquence each one possesses, let
him or her, if they aspire to eternal life
and exaltation, exhort and entreat in all hu-
mility, neighbors or friends, to be more awak-
ened to the special purposes of their creation
and mission upon earth. What need the true
and upright care for scorn or even censure from
those who have not the same noble aims to 
stimulate them? Work for a purpose and let it
be worthy all the sacrifice and endurance mor-
tals are capable of in this mundane sphere.


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE received for the first time as an
exchange The Utah County Enquirer, full of
County and other news, and seemingly well
adapted to its time and place.
	TENTH WARD.—The pupils of the 10 Ward
Sabbath School had a good time on Sunday.
A hundred and sixty prizes, embracing a wide
variety of articles, were distributed among
them. The teachers of the school also present-
ed a testimonial of respect to the superintend-
ent, Brother Jas. Woods.
	WE ACKNOWLEDGE the receipt [-]rom Wash-
ington of the "Congessional Record" of Dec.
30, 1876, containing the speech of Hon. H. W.
Blair in the House of Representatives. on the
manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors.
We would be glad to know that there were
many members of Congress as well as all other
public offices and positions, who would lend
their united restraining influence to abolish
this great curse of the country from the United
States. The speech is well worth reading and
gives many statements of facts and figures up-
on this important subject.
	"COMPILED LAWS of Utah."—This volume,
a work of about 900 pages is now completed.
It contains all the general statutes of Utah
now in force, and also the Declaration of Inde-
pendence, the Constitution of the United
States, the Organic Act of Utah, and all the
laws of Congress especially applicable to this
Territory: The work is arranged in regular
legal form, the c'assification of the acts, with
titles and chapters, head and marginal notes, a
complete, clear, and comprehensive index,
show that the legislative committee on compi-
lation, Honorables A O Smoot, Silas S. Smith
and R. T. Burtan, have been most careful and
exact in the performance of their labors.
	The volume is printed in clear, bold type, on
an excellent quality of law paper, and is well
and substantially bound in law calf. The work
was printed and bound at the Deseret News
Office.
	CHRISTMAS FESTIVAL—The 10th Ward
Young People's Christmas Festival, was a most
pleasing affair. At 2 p. m, the gentlemen of
the Deacons' Quorum, and young girls of the
Retrenchment Association assembled at the
new meeting house with their baskets laden
with good things. The hall was beautifully
decorated with festoons made of evergreens,
which the boys procured in the canyons, inter-
spersed with bright-hued artificial flowers
made by the young ladies—the "workmanship
of their own hands;" and those who have a
"love for the beautiful," must surely have felt
a pleasing influence on that bright Christmas
day, as they entered the hall which looked

[Column 2]
truly lovely in its holiday dress. After par-
taking the refreshments luxuriously supplied,
lively games and music were indulged in,
which added hearty enjoyment to the festive
scene, and peal after peal of merry laughter burst
forth from the joyous throng, which proved
very beneficial to the digestive organs, and
created a fund of good feeling in the participa-
tion. At half-past six o'clock the quadrille
band arrived, and the remainder of the even-
ing was past pleasantly in the dance which
closed at a reasonable hour. Thus ended our
Christmos day, and we feel to acknowledge
that God has abundantly blessed us.
									M. P.
	SERICULTURE.—The Deseret Silk Associa-
tion held a special meeting Thursday, Jan. 4,
at the Fireman's Hall, Mrs. Zina D. Young
presiding.
	Mrs. Young said the object of calling the
meeting was to adopt measures to instruct the
people how to raise silk worms successfully,
and in order to do so she thought it best to get
the experience of those who had been success-
ful, from the hatching out of the worm until
it had spun its cocoon; especially the mode of
feeding, and then have the information print-
ed in pamphlet form. She also stated that the
Association had eight pounds eleven ounces of
reeled silk that had been reeled by Mrs Cardon
of Logan.
	Mr. Paul A. Schettler stated that Mr. Joseph
Newman, silk raiser of San Francisco, had
paid us a visit on the 29th of December on his
way home from Philadelphia, where he had
been exhibiting silk culture in all its branches.
He gave us a good deal of useful information,
and said that though our reeled silk was not as
perfect as his, he thought we had made a good
start and ought to feel encouraged. He said
the principal object was to get our farmers to
plant out mulberry trees, millions of them.
	Meeting adjourned till the first Wednesday
in February, at two o'clock p. m.
					R. SIMPSON, Sec'y.

		NOTICE TO SERICULTURISTS
And all persons who have raised silkworms in
Utah. The Association would like them to
send their experience as to the best method to
pursue to raise the worms successfully.
				Address,
					Mrs. Zina D. Young,
							Salt Lake City.
		R. SIMPSON, Secretary.


OBITUARIES.

	SARAH SMITH Griffin, daughter of Hyrum
and Gerusha Smith, died Nov. 6th, in Ogden
City, leaving an infant three weeks old and
four other children with her husband to mourn
her loss. She was born Oct. 2d. 1837, in Kirt-
land, Ohio. Her mother died when she was
only eleven days old, her father being at the
same time absent from home, in Missou[-]i at-
tending to business pertaining to the Church.
She removed with the rest of the family to
Missouri in 1838, and was driven with the
Saints back to Illinois early in 1840; shared in
the exodus from Nauvoo in the dead o[-] winter,
in 1846, and removed to Winter Q[-]arters.
She came to Utah in 1848.
	In Jan. 1854, she was married to Charles G.
Griffin; and removed to St. Thomas, on the
Muddy in its first settlement, where she endur-
ed much suffering from privations and hard-
ships, which she bore with great fortitude and
patience. On their return from that place the
family settled first in Coalville, from thence
they removed to Ogden City in 1873. She was


the mother of ten children, five had passed
away before, ready to meet her when her hap-
py spirit took its flight to the regions of the
blessed. As a wife she was kind and affection-
ate, a helpmeet in the fullest sense of the word;
as a mother, indulgent almost to the extreme;
as a friend she was true as steel. She was
truly benevolent beyond her means, often im-
parting to others that which she really needed
for herself, not wishing to let her left hand
know what her right hand did. She was natu-
rally of a retiring habit, humble and unassum-
ing so that but very few knew her real worth;
"those who knew her best, loved her most."
	We would not recall her to a suffering world
like this, but let her enjoy the society of her
mother, her martyred father and uncle, with
an almost incalculaole number of loving and
beloved frinds. Truly the memory of the just
is blessed.
								COM.

	DIED, in Santaquin, Nov. 18, 1876; Eva,
eldest daughter of Peter N., and Charity An-
derson, aged seventeen years, six months and
twenty days. She was an active memder of
the Young Ladies Retrenchment Association,
and held the office of treasurer until her de-
mise. She was obedient and dutiful to her par-
ents, lived her religion truly and consistently,
and was beloved by all who knew her and her
absence is great[-]y felt by all her friends.
						HANSINA SANBURG.

	DIED, at Clifton, Oneida Co., Idaho, Nov.
29th, 1878, after a lingering illness of liver
complaint, Jason Elihu Howell, aged 39 years,
2 months and 28 days. Deceased was a faith-
ful member of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Lotter-day Saints and well respected and be-
loved by all who knew him. He leaves a large
family and circle of friends to monrn his loss.
								COM.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.		125


[Column 1]
			PRACTICAL CHARITY.

		"In faith and hope the world will disagree,
		But all mankind's concerned in charity."

										POPE.

	There are persons who cannot reconcile prac-
tical and helpful charity with the ideas they
entertain of unselfishness and disinterested-
ness. Charity they believe to be exclusively
an emanation of the heart independent of the
head. "Let not thy left hand know what thy
right hand doeth" is often quoted in condem-
nation of practical organizations for charitable
purposes. I do not propose to bring forward
or expound Scripture to illustrate the opinions
or the ground I have taken, but I honestly be-
lieve the Savior's words in their truest sense,
would confirm my sentiments upon this sub-
ject. Charity loses none of its sweetness or
grace by being wisely directed, and how can
we be entirely and judiciously wise in bestow-
ing charity without thorough knowledge of the
circumstances of any given case unless we as-
certain facts in relation to it. Thus you may
perceive the necessity of investigation in all
matters which require action of the nature of
charity; and the process of investigating and
rendering assistance should certainly be sub-
mitted to an authorized committee, and the de-
cision should be free from prejudice, as it must
invariably be a strong point, and perhaps one
involving reputation, unredeemable faults, and
in many instances entailing misery and woe,
if not the loss of life itself. True charity is
compatible with all the gentleness of the sym-
pathetic heart, and the ablest executive ability
of the head, the combined strength of the head
and heart are es[-]ential to the most complete

[Column 2]
system of self-helpfulness which is one of the
leading characteristics of the charity which
loves its neighbor as itself.
	There should be of course, some living links
that connect the people with such associations
as are formed for the amelioration of the con-
dition of those who are subjects for charity in
any of the ordinary significations of the term;
and these persons should familiarize them-
selves with details in whatever manner pos-
sible; if it were in the power of those who
lead out in these enterprises to give to those
who visit, some special training for their work,
such instruction would be most serviceable;
but here we might say with some considerable
degree of consistency, how can these persons
holding positions, teach that which they them-
selves are not versed in? One qualification all
visitors of this kind should possess, in a large
degree is tact, want of it will make him or her
more offensive than the want of help would
be unpleasant; one admirable qualification of
individual life is adaptability. Enter into the
subjects which those understand, with whom
you have to deal in these grave matters, let
them feel you can be interested in those things
which they estimate as their best and truest
helps in life.
	I wonder if those who give these subjects
time, thought and means, consider how much
real and permanent good might be effected by
the influence of the casual association between
the helper and the helped. There are many
young ladies who languish and pine of "ennui"
who might thus render good service to their
fellow-beings; and their very gentleness and
refinement, even their gaiety and beauty com-
ing with true grace and respectful demeanor,
into the humble dwellings of the less fortu-
nate, would be like the genial rays of sun-
shine after the clouds had darkened the sky, or
the soft rain or refreshing dew to the parched
earth. Smooth the pillow of the sick with
your soft, loving hands; read to the aged, or to
the working woman while she knits or sews;
talk to them as if you understood and recog-
nized their temporal as well as their spiritual
needs. Show them that you have a heart that
can feel for them, and if you will do some of
these things you will be laying up treasures
in heaven, and doing similar works, in a hum-
ble capacity to those of the beloved Savior.
Give a little of your leisure, a little of your
strength, a few cheering words and smiles, a
tender and wise sympathy for trouble or sor-
row, and it will be a real blessing to the receiver.
There are many who need these things who do
not want your money or your gifts, they want
sympathy, they want love, they want knowl-
edge how to live, and resolution to put good
and sensible ideas into every day practice.
The Relief Societies are organized on a thor-
ough and true system, but the minor points
are left to the genius and tact of those who
minister in these matters. It is thought to be
an inferior position to be a teacher (or visitor)
but if those teachers would fully weigh the
matter they would certainly infer that as they
minister in all humility and wisdom, upon
them is the very foundation resting of the best
development of this holy institution.
								THYRA.
	S. L. City, Jan. 10, 1877.


LOVE is won by love, or not at all. There
is no money or pride that a true heart
knows. Its exchanges are not low equiva-
lents. They are gifts, or they are nothing.
They are unalloyed attachments of love to
love, of heroism to heroism, of enthusiasm
to enthusiasm. Love is a celestial attrac-
tion of souls.


THE OLD AGE OF SAMUEL ROGERS.

	Lady Morgan once told this story, which
has just been put in print: That when
Samuel Rogers was past ninety, and in an
almost unconscious state, she called at his
house with Miss——, to whom he had of-
fered marriage, in order to inquire after his
health, and leave cards. "His carriage was
at the door, and he was about to be lifted
into it for an airing. His faithful valet sug-
gested that we should accompany him on
his ride, adding that he would surely recog-
nize me, and that he would take it kindly
of me. Miss——objected slightly at first,
but we both got into the carriage; after a
time I took the old man by the hand, and
said, 'You don't know me, Mr. Rogers, do
you?' He looked at me with lack-luster
eyes for a while, but gradually a little gleam
of intelligence appeared in them, and he
said very slowly, 'Yes, I think I know you,
but I'm not quite sure. Is it Lady Mor-
gan?' I told him he was right. 'Ah, Lady
Morgan,' he replied, 'it is very kind of you
to come and see me.' He then relapsed
into unconsciousness, and so remained for
about ten minutes, when I again took his
hand, and said, 'And as you know me Mr.
Rogers, perhaps you know this lady also?'
Miss——sat on the seat opposite, and Mr.
Rogers, who had not previously observed
her, looked at her attentively; and after an
effort, as if he were recalling some fast dis-
appearing train of thought, said slowly,
'Yes, I know her; she has come to marry
me.' My companion afterward told me
that she felt as if she could have sunk
through the floor of the carraige; but Mr.
Rogers relapsed into utter unconsciousnes,
closed his eyes, and never said anotners
word, or bestowed a look upon either of us,
until we deposited him safely at his door."


FLOWERS.

	To have a respect for ourselves guides
our morals; and to have a deference for
others governs our manners.
	IN the affairs of life activity is to be pre-
ferred to dignity, and practical energy and
dispatch to premeditated composure and
reserve.
	MORALITY without religion is only a kind
of dead reckoning—an endeavor to navigate
a cloudy sea by measuring the distance we
have to run, but without observation of the
heavenly bodies.
	WE are told by those who know, that
there are stars so for distant that it takes
years for their light to reach the earth; if
they should be suddenly extinguished, we
should be unaware of the fact for as many
years as might be required for the last rays
to reach us. We might look up nightly
and see the same old radiance, as if nothing
had happened. It is just so with great and
holy lives. Long after they have gone out
in the darkness of death they continue to
exert an influence, and leave behind them a
beauty and power which make it impossible
to conceive of them as extinguished.


"How many genders are there?" asked a
school-master.—"Three, sir," promptly re-
plied a little blue-eyed girl; "masculine
feminine and neuter." Pray give me an
example of each," said the master.—"Why
you are masculine, because yon are a man,
and I am feminine because I am a girl."
"Very well; proceed."—"I don't know,"
said the little girl: "but I fancy Mr. Jenkins
is neuter, as he is an old bachelor."


126		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	NOTES OF CORRESPONDENCE.

	STRASBURG, LANCASTER CO., PA.
					DEC. 25, 1876.
MY DEAR AUNT EM:

	It is evening, Christmas 1876 will soon
be counted in the past—transformed by
time from an anticipation into a memory.
What kind of a Christmas have you had?
In the midst of friends and at home, an ex-
treme contrast to mine.
	My impression, heretofore of Pennsylva-
nia, has been taken from Luzerne Co., but
I am happy to say Lancaster is of a some-
what different character; there we were in
the midst of coal mines, iron works, pov-
erty and ruffianism; here among the farm-
ers and quakers in a delightful little town
eight miles from Lancaster city, the coun-
try is rolling, small hills, but no mountains,
and woods crown every summit nearly,
while rich farms lie between. The pros-
pect for converts is not any more encourag-
ing, though we will make a start at the
Town Hall on Sunday. Have made the ac-
quaintance of one prominent gentleman,
and Bro. Musser has nearly—well if not
converted, at least made an impression—or
as we term it, "wounded" him.
	The condition of the religious world is
deplorable in the extreme. All is mystery
and darkness to them—the devout portion
don't know what they worship, while the
others are lost in an apathy, a lethargy and
indifference which is alarming. It reminds
me of my own case while at home. How
careless I was in regard to my salvation—I
tell you Aunt Em, there is a reformation
needed among the boys and girls who
claim fellowship with God's people, I shud-
der to think of it. How many of us are
prepared for that great "day of the Lord
which cometh like a thief in the night,"
How many will be caught unawares and
lost because they would not reach out their
hands for the prize when it was near their
grasp. We must not think that the word
"Mormon" or the professing of Latter-day
Saint is going to save us. We will all be
judged by the deeds done here, and each
individual is responsible for himself. I
would to heaven I could impress the impor-
tance of this upon my dear friends and fel-
low associates at home—but no, they would
say "oh, he's got religious" all missionaries
talk that way, he'll change," etc. Yes,
this is partly so, but what makes all miss-
ionaries talk and think so? It is because
they live nearer to God, and are compelled
to rely on Him; they see what it really is
to be a saint, while the rest are blind, and
if they (missionaries) ever change after, as
is predicted, it is because they are again in
darkness, a true saint should always feel the
same whether at home or abroad, and be
ever ready to sacrifice anything and every-
thing for the faith.
	I don't care how much I am ridiculed and
sneered at, if I know I am on the Lord's
side, He holds the destinies of all men in
the hollow of His hand and could crush
them to atoms if He chose. I hope I never
will be as I have been again, in some things.
My ambition is to be a follower of Christ,
and to be a good and useful citizen in the
kingdom of God. It was a hard struggle
between my pride and duty—duty tri-
umphed for once at least. I have seen
enough of the world to become disgusted
with its corruption. It is ripe in wicked-
ness and were it not for the indifference of
His chosen people God would hurl his ven-
geance now—the final scene depends on
two conditions—that of the saints and that

[Column 2]
of the sinners. The latter are wicked
enough to be destroyed, but the former are
not good enough to be saved. How much
longer will we tempt God? How cool and
lukewarm we are! Many of us will be
caught as were the antedeluvians and the
Sodomites—not believing that the end is at
hand—But as God lives, it will come, and
then the woe, misery and remorse; "if I
only had" and "it might have been," will
be the echo of the unprepared, and it will
be a fearful scene. No one can realize but
under actual experience what the "beau
monde" is; I had an idea that all was splen-
dor outside, I thought to work my way up
the ladder of life and become famous and
wealthy, become a favorite everywhere,
and lead a life of gaiety and pleasure—a
change has "come o'er the spirit of my
dream"—It's all hollow, hollow, hollow!
"The kingdom of God, or nothing" shall
be my motto. I want to remain with the
Lord's people and am willing to make any
sacrifice for them and the great Latter-day
Cause.
	My friends will laugh at me perhaps, but
I am used to worse than that already, and
it will have no effect; oh, how I wish they
could all see these things. I have made
light of such myself, but I was wrong.
Paul was wrong when he persecuted the
apostles, and he became one himself after-
ward. It is never beneath any one to re-
pent of a fault.
	It is pride that does it all, that "never
failing vice of fools." The "Mormons"
like the true saints in all ages, are unpopu-
lar—it is not fashionable to serve God—
thats the whole thing condensed.
	I hope God will ever keep me faithful. I
can conceive nothing more terrible than the
doom of the apostate. "It had been better
ye had never received the faith, than to
turn from the holy commandments once
given" as Peter says in such effect—I don't
quote verbatim. This world is but a pre-
face to the great book of eternity. We
must lay up our treasures in heaven, where
moths do not corrupt nor thieves break
through and steal." How many of us will
meet each other there?
	I am too sleepy to write any more to-
night—Good night till morning.

						Dec. 26th.

	Aurora ushers in another day: a cloudy
one too, like the heads of many who awoke
this morning after the effects of Christmas
imbibations. This is an apt simile but not
a pleasant one, therefore a truce to the sub-
ject.
	What the programme for the day is, I do
not know yet. I suppose we will call on
Bro. Musser's relatives. One of them is a
Memnonite—this sect have for a basis the
command of Christ "if they smite ye on
one cheek turn the other, etc. If attacked
they would not feel justified in defending
themselves, but when Bro. Muss[-]r asked
this gentleman if he would su[-]mit to the
assassin or robber without any effort, he
said I don't think I would. What good
does it do to have a theory, and practice in
direct contradiction to it. They are all as
blind as bats. They take one principle of
the primitive gospel as a nucleus and sur-
round it and their votaries in a cloak of
mystery and supposition, hope and doubt.
And yet they boast of the spread of Chris-
tianity. There is a cord around the huge
neck of every so-called Christian denomina-
tion and Satan has a firm hold on the other
end and is leading them through mystery
further from the light of truth, deeper in-
to the darkness of perdition. The time

[Column 3]
foretold by Isaiah, Nephi, and other pro-
phets has come, the fulfillment is literal, and
it is a marvel that people who pretend to
believe in the Scriptures can not see it.
"Darkness shall cover the earth, and gross
darkness the minds of the people." From
the xiv to xiviii chapter of Revelations is a
subject, or reading matter, which all should
look over. On the 104th page, Chapt. 12,
Second, Nephi, Book of Mormon, is depict-
ed the exact state of the religious world of
to-day, in a prophecy uttered by Nephi to
his people. "For it shall come to pass in
that day that the churches which are built
up, and not unto the Lord, when the one
shall say unto the other, Behold! I am the
Lords; and the other will say, I am the
Lords. And they shall contend one with
another, and their priests shall contend one
with another, and they shall teach with
their learning, and deny the Holy Ghost,
which giveth utterance." etc etc.
	When I think of these things my heart is
filled with unspeakable gratitude to the
great good God who has granted me the
privilege of living in this age, and being
on the right road. The time is close at
hand when Zion will be the only safe place
where in to stand. Babylon is doomed and
all who leave and go out into her except on
God's errands will be buried with her in
her great fall.
	The curse of the Almighty is upon her
and is only withheld for a season. "Come
out of her my people, that ye be not par-
takers of her sins, and that ye receive not
of her plagues. For her sins have reached
unto heaven, and God hath remembered
iniquities." She must be thrown down
with violence even as a millstone cast into
the sea; this is why I have given up the
idea of leaving my home to become an in-
mate of the outside world. "Come out of
her" is the command, and I will not risk
my future salvation for the chance of a
name in the world.
	I may never return as it is,—No one can
tell how soon the cloud will burst and del-
uge all both saint and sinner. God has
said, though, "he who loseth his life for
my sake shall find it," and if it be His will
I am satisfiid. We must sacrifice every-
thing for Him who gave it all, and he who
holds back any let him beware and remem-
ber the fate of Annanias and Saphira.
	The prospect of another war is imminent.
It will not be as before, two great sides bat-
tling against one another, but it will be an
internecine conflict of family against fam-
ily, city against city, state against state.
The condition of the time shows plainly
how easy it would be for the Almighty to
fulfill all He has said. A crisis is impend-
ing. The world thinks it the result of nat-
ural events, and so it is, God works in that
way, He permits men to destroy them-
selves, and they are too blind to perceive
that they are fulfilling predictions to the
letter.
	As already said, the wicked are ready,
but the good are not, we must all reform.
Jesus says "Except ye be as this little
child, ye can not enter the kingdom of
heaven," how many of us are as meek and
pure as little children? Are we willing to
obey, are our minds as untainted as a little
child's? Without God's help it is nearly
impossible, but if we do our best God will
help us; He knows our weaknesses better
than we do and is ever ready to forgive.
	That we may ever bear these things in
mind and be prepared for the coming of
Jesus, is my prayer.
			Yours Affectionately,
							O. F. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		127


[Column 1]
			AN ALLEGORY.

	In traveling through Hindostan some
years ago, the writer accidentally came
across a curiosity of which very little ap-
pears to be known. Having occasion to
remain for a few days at a village which
lay a short distance from a large body of
water—perhaps of sufficient extent to enti-
tle it to be called a sea—my attention was
directed to the ruins of what had once been
a grand and beautiful temple, an object, as
I was informed, that would well repay a
visit. This temple was situated immedi-
ately on the border of the sea, and from a
variety of marks it was evident that its
destruction was greatly owing to the re-
peated and continued beating of the waves
against the structure. The remains of pil-
lars of stone, placed at regular intervals,
particularly attracted the attention. In-
scriptions, that had originally been cut very
deep, were still visible on many of these
pillars, and on one the word "Hope" was as
plain as though it had been chiseled yester-
day; on another, but not so clear, the word
"Mercy" could be seen; and in fact each pil-
lar bore an inscription of some meaning.
The hand of Time, however, had pressed so
heavily on some as to render them very in-
distinct, while the waves had worn others
so much that to decipher them was impossi-
ble.
	While gazing on these ruins, and wonder-
ing what motives could have actuated the
erection of this temple, I saw a rather
strange looking person approaching the spot
where I stood When he had arrived with-
in speaking distance, I asked him if there
was not a history connected with this tem-
ple, upon which he related the following
story, which I believe contains a moral of
worth. Here is the story as he spoke it:
	"Long ages ago a great and good being
called God, caused this temple, the ruins of
which you now behold, to be erected, and
named it the 'Temple of the Soul.' The
dome of the structure, on which the name
of the temple was inscribed, was support-
ed by a number of pillars, which were
placed so close together as to render them
impenetrable. On each of these pillars was
cut, or engraven, the name of some attri-
bute, among which were Truth, Friendship,
Hope, Purity, Love, Faith, Conscientious-
ness, Pity, Reason, Charity, Wisdom, Be-
nevolence, and others, many of which have
been forgotten in the transmission of the
history from generation to generation. The
names lost could never be recovered, be-
cause many of them were effaced, while
some of the pillars have gradually mould-
ered away until there are now left only a
letter or two, and others are entirely de-
stroyed. This temple God left in the charge
of his children, to whom he gave pointed
and unmistakable instructions that it should
be carefully preserved.
	It was erected so close to this sea, which
is called the 'Sea of Evil Influence,' that
even in the fairest weather the water laves
the sand within a few rods of the temple;
so that, whenever the tide ran up the beach
an unusual distance, or a storm arose, the
waves dashed furiously against the edifice.
Had the children of God paid that respect
which was due to His instructions, they
could have prevented the encroachments
of the 'Seas of Evil Influence' upon the
'Temple of the Soul;' but they deluded
themselves into the belief that, as the close-
ness of the pillars rendered the temple im-
pregnable, the building was perfectly se-
cure, forgetting that with every dash of the
waves against the temple, the structure was
weakened.

[Column 2]
	"You see," said he, "that stump which
extends further towards the sea than the
rest? That pillar was called 'Truth,' but as
time wore on, and being more exposed to
the water than the other, the letters are en-
tirely erased, nay, there is hardly any of
the pillar left.
	When the children of God discovered
that unless some action was taken the Sea
of Evil Influence would ultimately ruin the
'Temple of the Soul,' they determined that
they would endeavor to avert the probable
danger. But as they consoled themselves
with the thought that no great damage had
yet been done, and as there appeared to be
no pressing necessity for immediate action,
they concerned themselves very little about
the matter. Meantime the Pillar of Truth
was slowly but surely succumbing to the
continued action of the waves, till finally a
portion of it was washed away. The charm
was lost. That which had been an impene-
trable barrier was now broken and the wa-
ters of the Sea of Evil Influence rushed tu-
multuously into she Temple of the Soul, to
which all the pillars were now exposed.
The next pillar that fell was that of Faith,
which was immediately at the left of the
pillar of Truth, and on which still remains
the faint outlines of the letters f and a.
The work of destruction was now thorough-
ly begun, and all the pillars of the temple
were at the mercy of the waves. After
the pillar of Faith had fallen the next that
gave way was Reason; then Purity, and
Love, Charity, Conscientiousnecs, Mercy,
Wisdom, and lastly Friendship followed;
and now the only pillar remaining uninjured
is that of Hope. For ages that pillar alone
has withstood the action of the waters to
which it was exposed, nor, strange as it
may seem, does it bear any visible marks
either of the hand of Time or the influence
of the sea, while the word Hope is still as
clear as it was originally. Thus, through
disregarding the commandments God gave
his children, the result is the ruin of the
magnificent 'Temple of The Soul.'"
	The stranger then left me to meditate on
the history he had just related, and draw a
moral therefrom.
									S.


[Column 1]
			WOMEN IN ITALY.

	Italy first, towards the close of the Mid
dle Ages, permitted to Woman the free ex-
ercise of distinguished talents. Olympia
Morata lectured publicly in Ferrara, the
universities of Padua and Bologna gave
chairs to female professors, and the study
of medicine, the higher mathematics, and
classic literature was open to the sex.
Shakespeare's "Portia" is less than a full
type of the accomplished Italian woman of
that day. At this moment, three or four
hundred years later, Germany, France, and
even England are not m[-]ch in advance of
the public sentiment which then accepted
such a recognition of Woman's capacity:
while no modern university has ventured
to go so far. Already, in the present gen-
eral development of Italy, the women are
preparing to claim their ancient privileges.
A new intellectual activity is stirring the
sex; not only in literature and art, also in
politics and sociology, we are beginning to
hear softer voice. The popular sympathy
with the martyred Bulgarians, which ex-
pressed itself through immense mass meet-
ings in Rome and Naples, no less than in
London and Glasgow, has given the Italian
women an opportunity which some of
them have instantly seized. It is true, in-
deed, that the Italian poetess, Signora Fau-

[Column 2]
Fusinato, has frequently made brief ad-
dresses before societies; but we cannot re-
call any previous instance of a woman ad-
dressing a great assemblage of the people.
At the meeting held at Rome in the Apollo
Theatre, on the 3d ult., the Countess Chioc-
ci appeared upon the platform, and present-
ed a written address, which she requested
to be published with the proceeding of the
meeting. It was accepted, and the address
would have been willingly heard by the au-
dience, had the Countess not lost her cour-
rge.
	A week afterward, an immense multi-
tude assembled in the atrium of the monas-
tery of Santa Maria la Nova, In Naples.
Thousands upon thousands of all classes of
people were present. The third speaker
was Miss Matilda Caselli, who displayed
such remarkable spirit and eloquence,
rousing the vast audience to such uncon-
trollable enthusiasm, that the remaining
orations in the programme were instantly
suppressed, and the resolutions adopted by
acclamation. From the report of her
speech we find that Miss Caselli was no less
daring than eloquent. In Naples, the so
long Bourbonized Naples, she cried to the
new people which is rising out of the for-
mer lazzaroni: "The Cross, the emblem of
humanity, can have no brotherhood with
the Crescent, the emblem of barbarism!
We repudiate the Jesuit policy which now
favors the Crescent, as we reject his author-
ity who usurps the name of Vicar of
Christ!" To appreciate the force of this ut-
terance, it must be remembered that the
policy which emanates from the Vatican
has been hitherto unfriendly [-]o the Orient-
al Christians, and therefore, so far as it
may affect diplomacy. favorable to the
Turkish side of the question. But the free-
dom of speech of Miss Caselli is hardly
more remarkable than the readiness with
which it was accorded to her, and the man-
ner in which it was received by the au-
dience. There are still many turbid ingre-
dients in the life of Italy, and if Italian
women are as wise and patient as they are
able and eloquent, they may render noble
service to their country.—N. Y. Tribune.


THOSE WHO suffer from sleeplessness—and
the number is not small—might do well to
notice their position at night. A German
physiologist states that the heating of the
earth by the sun causes magnetic currents
from the equator to each pole. We should
lie, therefore, in the direction of these cur-
rents; if we lie across these, the result is
unpleasant, and want of sleep is the conse-
quence. The head to the north is the best
position—to the west the worst. Physicians
who have charge of hospitals all attend to
the directions in which the beds are placed,
and with the best results.


"IT will do!"—"It will do!" is the com-
mon phrase of those who neglect little
things. "It will do!" has blighted many a
character, blasted many a fortune, sunk
many a ship, burned down many a house,
and ruined thousands of hopeful projects
for human good. It always means stopping
short of the right thing. It is a makeshift.
It is a failure and defeat. Not what "will
do," but what is the best possible thing to
do, is the point to be aimed at. "Let the
man once adopt the maxim of "It will do!"
and he is given over to the enemy; he is
on the side of incompetency and defeat;
and we give him up as a hopeless subject."
—Smiles.


128		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	"I DON'T believe in fashionable church-
es," said a lady, recently; "but after all,
considering that we can all go to the same
heaven, perhaps it is better to keep up the
social distinctions as long as we can."
	A DARKEY'S EXPLANATION OF TELE-
GRAPHING.—"Now you see Sam, s'pose
da was a dog, and dat dog's head was in
Hoboken, and his tail in Brooklyn." "Go
'way, da ain't no such dog." "Well, s'pose
there was." "Well s'pose da was." "Well,
den, de telegram is jest like dat dog. If I
pinch dat dog's tail in Brooklyn, what he
do?" "Dunno." "Why, if I pinch dat
dog's tail in Brooklyn, he go bark in Hobo-
ken. Dat's the science of it."—Harper's
Drawer.
	"You voted for Tilden?" queried a Bos-
tonian, andressing a New Yorker. "Well,
yes, all the fellers of our club voted for
him," replied Fifth Avenue. "Well, what
kind of a man is he, any way?" asked Bos-
ton. "Well," said F. A., wiping a speck of
dust from his eye-glass, "I don't know
much about him. One feller said the other
night that Tilden might do for President,
but he shouldn't want to have him own
fifty-one per cent of the stock of a corpora-
tion of which he and his friends held the
other forty-nine per cent. I don't think it
is complimentary—do you?"—Boston Jour-
nal.
	"IN what way is your husband profli-
gate?" asked a Californian judge. "What
do you mean?" the woman asked. "In
what does his profligacy consist? what
does he do when he is profligate?" "Oh, I un-
derstand. Well he's profligate with horses."
The judge's countenance underwent a
variety of expressions, in which astonish-
ment and perplexity predominated, as he
put the next interrogatory: "Profligate
with horses! What—what do you mean by
that?" "Well he went not long ago to
haul twenty dozen of eggs two miles to sell
them, and he hadn't got more than half
way when the horses shied, tipped the wag-
on, and broke thirteen dozen, and eggs
fifty cents a dozen at that. If that ain't
being profligate with horses, then I don't
know what is."
	A SHARP Yankee went into a country
store down East, and thus accosted the pro-
prietor; "Squire, do you trade?" "Consid-
erable," was the reply. "I mean do you
dicker?" "Some; what ye got fer dicker?"
"Guess I'd like a darnin' needle" The re-
quired darning needle was dickered for the
egg, and the Yankee was going away when
he turned and said, "Squire do you treat?"
"Well, I don't mind if I do," replied the
good-natured store-keeper. They repaired
to an adjacent tavern, and the usual bour-
bon was produced. "Hold on," cried the
Yankee, "my chist's weak, and I never
take whiskey without an egg in it." The
generous shopkeeper handed him the dick-
ered egg, but without asking him for his
needle again. The Yankee broke the shell
on the edge of the glass, when he ex-
claimed. "Geewillikins! this egg's got two
yolks! Guess you'd better give me anoth-
er darnin needle."


[Column 1]
TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

[Column 2]
WOOLCOTT'S
		PAIN PAINT
					IS THE
GREAT HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
For Inflammation, Fever or Heat. Does not
burn, smart or color the skin, and requires
	no rubbing. Recommended for all
		Eruptive Diseases, Rheumatism,
			Bruises, Wounds, Colds,
				Fros[-]ed Feet, &c.
PRICE FIFTY CENTS!
		Hundreds of References in Salt Lake City.

	The Ogden Junction says: "Pain Paint is a wonderful
remedy and ought to be widely known."
	☞ A HOME PREPARATION ☜
	ONLY CITY AGENCIES—11th and 15th Ward Co-op
St[-]re, Des[-]ret Bakery, Main Street, Morgan's 7th Ward
[-]o[-]pe[-]'s, 17th Ward( and Woman's Commission House.

				AGENTS WANTED.
	No Capital but Bishop's Recommend required. Ad-
dress this office.
		WOMAN'S
COMMISSION HOUSE
		IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOOLEN GOODS,
				SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
			LADIES JACKETS,
				STOCKINGS, YARNS,
			SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
LATEST STYLES OF FANCY WORSTED TIES,
	Men's Knitted Undershirts,
	DAMASK BED SPREADS,
	Rag Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy
Articles, Shoes, Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brush-
es, Brooms, Butter, Cheese, Eggs, Flour, Can-
ned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vinegar,
Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bu-
reaus, Spool Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps,
Ink, Shoe Blacking, Concentrated Lye, Silver
Plating, Pottery Ware, Clothes Pins, Neats
Foot Oil, Glue.
			ALSO A VARIETY OF
MEDICINES,
			INCLUDING
	D. Huntington's Celebrated
INDIAN REMEDIES!
			AND THE
	Oil of Artemisia,
		OR WILD SAGE.

	PAIN PAINT.

Medicines from Dr. Crockwell's Dispenstay,
	SARAS SALVE, Etc.
Also a Variety of Books,
		AL OF
HOME MANUFACTURE.

[Column 3]
DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send y[-]ur orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
					17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
