VOL. 5		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1876.		No. 3.


ANSWER TO WHAT ARE WE MEN TO DO, BY R. W.
	EASTERBROOKS, EXPONENT, APRIL 15TH, 1876.

It seems, gentle sir, you are somewhat afraid,
Your strong-minded sisters may step from their sphere
And some of your precious MEN'S RIGHTS may invade?
	(Excuse me a moment to wipe off this tear!)
Yo[-] fear their activity given full sway
Would really monopolize industries all?
You flatter them, sir, in so happy a way,
I bow you my thanks in behalf of them all.
You'd gladly exchange work if only you could;
(Exceptional man, if you mean what you say!
I ne'er knew another admit that he would:)
	But babies need feminine mothers you say.
Quite true—bless the babies!—they really do need
Those same "female mothers," fond, patient, and true,
To nourish and cherish, and all their wants heed;
But, though this is much, is it all that we do?

You speak of the babes with the satisfied air
Of one who has cited the catalogue through;
But the leisure for study, were they our sole care,
	Might lift us in intellect ALMOST to you.
'Tis thus that our labors have always been scorned!
The "little" admitted which gives them their breath.
Men smile at the burdens so patiently borne,
Though we know their weight often crushes to death.

Seant praise and less pay have resolved us at last
To try some emploments man claims for his own:
We lik[-] them; they pay us; the time being past
	To tremble at shadows, the barriers thrown
Around us by man we will scale or pull down,
Denying his right to prescribe every "sphere,"
To say, after fixing our limits all round,
"My sphere is unbounded, but yours is just here."

But since "God has fixed" that the children are ours,
(Though man claims them his—yes and his all alone.)
We gladly and proudly will pluck the sweet flowers
	Transplanted to earth from the foot of His throne.
And if you scorn the needle, the washboard and broom,
As m[-]ch as is probable—being a man—
If 'mong the world's workers you cannot find room,
I then would suggest—not advise, mind—this plan:

You shall sit in the shade—I will plant you a tree—
Fold your hands, shut your eyes, hang your feet on a chair.
And, lighting the soothing and odorous weed,
	Puff blue, balmy clouds on the plain; common air,
And while those poor "fem[-]les" who would have their
	way,
In pursuit of their work hurry breathlessly past,
Half open your eyes and with gentleness say—
"Thank heaven I've found out my true sphere at last."
								Lu Dalton.


[Column 1]
					For the EXPONENT.
			WHICH WAY?

	As we enter upon the rugged pathway of
life, glowing with health and anticipation,
what a strange and bewildering panorama
is spread out before us; and, as we near the
gateway of active life, our youthful minds
seem almost dazed, and we feel scarcely ca-
pable of comprehending the meaning of the
different sights and sounds with which we
are surrounded. As we advance, the first
thing which attracts our attention, because
it strangely contrasts with the dazzling
splendor on either side, is a straight, nar-
row path, reaching far beyond human sight,
away; far away into the future, as it were.
This path seems to be a lonely, dreary one;
no allurements to attract the few weary,
patient-looking pedestrians who are travel-
ing its thorny course. O, cruel, cruel thorns!
Not only do they wound the weary, worn
feet, but they pierce the already aching
heart; aye! pierce it until drops of blood
are wrung out, drop, and are drank greedily
by the rank, bitter weeds growing beneath.
And still, after many weary travelers have

[Column 2]
endured all this, it seems to make the path
but very little more passable, or less thorny
and dreary to the more youthful feet that
yet may enter its wearisome track.

		"O heartless weeds! who suck life's sap
		From buds so pure and friendless!"

	As we stand almost spellbound, gazing at
the peculiar sight before us, we notice these
careworn travelers stooping, ever and anon,
to pick up what appear to be small, lustre-
less brown stones or pebbles; and we pit-
eously exclaim—"Oh, why do they stop to
gather them! See how the thorns lacerate
the poor, bleeding arms and hands, and
deepen the furrows on the pallid brow."
The sight seems to almost sicken us, and we
turn our gaze to the brighter and more beau-
tiful side of the pict[-]re.
	Here, all seems fascinating and enchant-
ing. The road is broad and verdant, cool,
shady bowers are ever open, ready to wel-
come the traveler passing that way. Halls
of pleasure, brilliantly illuminated, from
which thrilling music floats forth and is car-
ried away on the balmy air, attract our at-
tention, and we hear the bursts of revelry
and song from the gay company within; we
see fair damsels gliding hither and thither
in their foamy vestments, while the gallant
knights look stately and grand as they hover
around them, in their more sombre array of
faultless black and spotless white. Every-
thing is enchanting and alluring here, as
we gaze upon the broad, green road,
thronged with pleasure-seeking crowds;
and we hear familiar voices calling for more
to come and participate in the festival.
	After being permitted to gaze upon these
strange, bewildering sights for a short
period, we advance still farther, and enter
the great gateway, which denotes the be-
ginning of these different paths. Here we
stand irresolute, knowing not whither to go
or what course to pursue. While we are
thus pondering in our minds, a guide ap-
pears, who points out to us the narrow, thor-
ny path. "That," says he, "is the path of
duty, which, if faithfully trodden, will
bring its own great reward; and those small
brown pebbles which now appear lustreless
and worthless, are jewels beyond all price,
obtained only by learning the hard, sad LES-
SONS OF LIFE. Under their rough exterior
glows a 'hidden light' which will shine
brilliantly and illuminate thy crown in the
Great Hereafter, when thou hast conquered
and reached the end beyond (pointing along
the thorny path) This," pointing to the
broad, verdant road, "is the path of pleas-
ure, and many there are who walk therein.
But listen. Thou canst not stop to indulge
in any of their festivities or banquets; not
even to rest thy weary limbs in one of their
flower-wreathed bowers, lest the trumpet
soundeth, and the golden gate be closed ere
thou reachest the end beyond; for thou on-
ly hast time allotted unto thee to reach it in
due season if thou keepest steadily onward,
swerving not to the right hand or the left;
and thy glory shall be according to the jew-
els and treasures thou hast gathered and
laid up to present to the keeper of the Gate
of Paradise beyond"—pointing to the thor-
ny path—"Now go thy way and choose for
thyself."
	Now we enter the thorny path, hopeful

[Column 3]
and courageous, glowing with valor and ex-
pectation, feeling determined to conquer
and reach the Golden Gate in due season,
and obtain the glories that await us in the
Paradise beyond. But Oh! as we advance,
how the cruel thorns lacerate us, and pierce
our hearts to the very core. How weary
we are growing, stooping ever and anon to
pick up the little lustreless stones. We
longingly gaze at the flower-wreathed bow-
ers on either side, and the seductive sound
of splashing fountains greet our ear, while
the sweet perfume of lovely flowers is waft-
ed to us on the light zephyr, and we seem
wooed for a few brief moments from the
thoughts of our thorny surroundings. Then
we murmur—why can't we rest our weary
limbs just a little while in the shady bow-
ers, and bathe our fevered brows in the cool
waters of the fountain. We hear familiar
voices calling "Come, hie thee away to the
pastures of pleasure," and we stand irreso-
lute, thinking only how easy it would be to
step across the narrow line that divides the
two paths, and join in the revelry of the
wild, joyous throng. But hark! We hear
the voice of the guide whispering—"Only
time, only time, if thou keepest steadily
onward, swerving not to the right hand or
to the left—to reach the great gate ere the
trumpet soundeth and it be closed against
thee, then thou wilt have to enter another
way, and be content with a lesser glory.
A look of stern determination crosses our
countenance, and we step resolutely onward,
heedless of the allurements and temptations
on either side; saying that by the help of
heaven we WILL CONQUER.
	How many of us, dear friends, are in the
narrow path, the line of duty, and how
long will we continue in it; and shall we
be sufficiently strong to endure the heat of
the day, the poisoning of the bitter, rank
weeds, and the piercing of the sharp, cruel
thorns? Or shall we step aside and mingle
with the giddy throng, and become drunk-
en with the momentary pleasures of this
world, which, remember, Oh, REMEMBER,
are of a surety but momentary compared
with the everlasting joy to be obtained when
the victory for which we are striving has
been attained and we have passed through
the Golden Gate into the Paradise beyond?
Who can tell? But let us remember that—

	"Pleasures are like poppies spread,
	You seize the flower—its bloom is shed;
	Or like the snow-flake in the river,
	A moment white—then lost forever;
		Or like borealus race,
	That f[--]t ere you can find their place,
											ZOE.


THE WOMAN'S Pavilion at the Centen-
nial Exhibition has been said by many who
have visited Philadelphia since the grand
opening, to contain some of the most charm-
ing varieties of specimens, and to be the
most tastefully and artistically arranged of
any building upon the grounds. From the
Royal Family of England were received
several productions of elegant home work-
manship; twenty-six etchings by the Queen;
table napkins of her own spinning; delicate
embroidery, and drawings of flowers by her
daughters.


18		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R.S. REPORTS.

	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Retrenchment Association, held in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday, June 24,
1876, was one of intense interest, and was
very largely attended. After the custom-
ary exercises and reading of minutes by the
young lady secretaries, President Mrs. M.
I. Horne addressed the assembly in earnest
and impressive language. Counselor E. R.
Snow then spoke, mostly concerning the
Territorial Fair now about to open; she un-
derstood that some people had received the
impression that articles brought were a
donation; this was not so; they had told
every one from the first that unless speci-
mens were ticketed for sale, every article
would be returned to its owner, and no sac-
rifice made whatever, etc. Counselor Mrs.
B. W. Smith then related a few items in re-
gard to her recent visit to Fillmore, etc.
Counselor E. R. Snow then introduced to
the assemblage Mrs. Woodruff, recently
from the East, who then addressed the
meeting, relating some of her experiences
among the different tribes of Indians where
she had labored as a missionary, teacher,
etc., during five years; she showed some
pictures of Indian chiefs with whom she
was acquainted, which were strikingly ex-
pressive of the peculiar characteristics of
these descendants of the Aborigines. She
is a lady of education and culture, and has
become thoroughly interested in this partic-
ular work, which is one of the most noble
and most necessary to be accomplished to
fulfil this dispensation. Elder Lemon, who
was present, then spoke to the ladies and
reviewed some parts of his life and travels,
which were particularly adapted to the sub-
ject before the meeting; the Indians, the
Book of Mormon, the proof of its truth etc.;
spoke of his coming among this people a
stranger as Mrs. Woodruff had now come;
of the welcome given him on all sides
wherever he had traveled through the set-
tlements of the Saints.

REPORT OF ANNUAL MEETING OF RE-
TRENCHMENT ASSOCIATION HELD IN THE
FIRST WARD SCHOOL HOUSE, MAY 10, 1876.

	After singing, prayer, and reading of
minutes, President Mrs. Sarah Graham,
arose and expressed herself pleased to see
so many sisters from other wards, said that
it would be the wish of all to hear from
them. They would dispense with the usual
exercises of selections, essays, &c. She
then presented to the congregation Miss
Eliza R. Snow, who proceeded to address
them upon the progress of these organiza-
tions, the cause of it, and the ultimate re-
sults, if they followed out the instructions
given them and persevered in the path
open to them; spoke of the trials and temp-
tations that beset the pathway of the saints,
of the great power of evil spirits, and of
the diligence and faithfulness necessary to
preserve them from such evil influences;
made some remarks upon punctuality,
which she considered one of the essentials
to accomplish any good work; spoke of the
necessity of building temples, as there were
many ordinances belonging to the priest-
hood which could not be attended to out-
side of a temple. She reminded the sisters
how the Relief Society commenced with a
few carpet rags, a little wool, and so on;
now they had spread and grown strong; she
had this spring received reports from 111
branches in this Territory, and they had
disbursed for charitable purposes, gathering
the poor, &c., over $93,400. In addition,
there were many good works done that

[Column 2]
could not be reported. She looked forward
with hope and joy to the time when the
saints would become a mighty phalanx to
prevail against the powers of darkness.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young then addressed the
meeting upon the silk culture and its ad-
vantages, the lack of machinery, &c.; and
touched upon the subject of Celestial Mar-
riage; and the need of activity, lest we fall
asleep and slumber when the Bridegroom
cometh.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. Martha Young,
Mrs. Lydia Ann Wells, Mrs. R. R. Grant,
Mrs. Sarah Wheeler, Mrs. Sarah Graham,
each of them addressed the meeting upon
those subjects of most importance to the
sisters in helping to advance the interests
of the saints.
Mrs. Agnes Campbell and Mrs. Mary Muss-
er counselors, Misses Sarah Smith and
Mary Ann Adams Secretaries, bore their
testimonies in an impressive and humble
manner, full of faith and sincerity.
	After the closing exercises, a large num-
ber of the sisters repaired to the residence
of Mrs. M. A. Musser, where there was a
delicate and tasteful repast prepared by the
members of the Association.
This society is one of the most active and
prosperous in the city.

			FAIRVIEW, May 20, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Young Ladies' Retrenchment Asso-
ciation in Fairview, was organized August
7th, 1875, with the following officers:
MISS MARY JONES, President,
"	LEVEE T. TERRY,			}
"	JULIA SANDERSON,		}
"	SELINA STEWART,		} Counselors.
MRS. R[-]BECCA TERRY,		}
MISS TRYPHENA COX,			}
" 	ELLEN ALRED,			}
MISS MARGARET ANDERSON,	} Secretaries
"	ELISE TUCKER,			}
	We enjoy ourselves at our meetings,
which we hold once a week. We have
girls from 10 years of age and over and
all get up and speak. The younger girls
seem to take more interest in our meetings
than the older ones. We remained under
the above organization until our beloved
president was called on the Arizona mission.
It was with the greatest regret that we
parted with her, but she had a greater mis-
sion to fulfil.
	We were re-organized Feb. 13, 1876, with
the following officers;
	MRS. JULIA RIGBY, President,
MISS NANCY SANDERS,		}
"	TRYPHENA COX,			} Counselors,
"	SELINA STEWART,		}
"	LEVEE TERRY,			}
MISS MARGARET ANDERSON,	} Secretary,
"	ELISE TUCKER,			}
	We take the EXPONENT in our society
this year, and it is a great help to us, and is
read with much interest. We are pleased
to hear from other associations, and thought
perhaps you would like to hear from us.
We are sometimes visited by some of the
members of the Relief Society, and they
always give us good instructions. We have
formed no Resolutions as yet, but all are
striving to do right; and I hope and pray
that all the Retrenchment Associations will
accomplish the end for which they were or-
ganized:
		I remain
			Your Sister in the Gospel,
					TRYPHENA COX.

[Column 3]
				MANTI, May 16th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The following is the report of the Manti
Relief Society for the year ending Feb. 4,
1876:
	Total Receipts,........................$ 	193 00
	Disbursed to the poor and for pub-
		lic improvements,................  165 87

	Remaining,..............................$	27 92
	This we have invested in the Ladies'
Co-operative store of Manti.
					A. L. Cox, Secretary.

		SPRING CITY, SANPETE Co.,
						May 23, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A Retrenchment Society for Young La-
dies was organized in this place by M. A.
P. Hyde, President of the Relief Society,
and her counselors, on the 3rd of December
1874, with the following officers:—
MISS ANNENA LARSEN, President,
"	GEORGIANA CRISP,	}
"	JULIETTE BIRDIC,		}
"	MARGARET JUALISEN,	} Counselors,
"	OLIVE ALLRED,		}
"	EMMA ADLER,		}
"	ANNA LARSEN,		}
"	FIDELIA KOFFORD, Secretary,
"	OLIVE ALLRED, Assistant Secretary,
MRS. MARIA BUCHANA, Treasurer.
	We hold our meetings regularly, and speak
of the things pertaining to the work in
which we are engaged. We desire to over-
come everything that would prevent us
from gaining eternal life in the kingdom of
our God. Our President is an amiable
young lady, who is trying, together with
her counselors, to honor her calling. There
are sixty-three members of the society, and
all manifest a good spirit when they meet
together. We read pieces from the EXPO-
NENT in almost every meeting, and by so
doing, we feel much edified; and we wish
it success, and the blessing of God to attend
it, and all institutions of improvement.
				P. E. KOFFORD.
						Secretary.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	A DISPATCH from Alexandria says a quar-
rel has arisen between the Khedive and the
new Turkish Government, in consequence
of which the Khedive has been ordered to
proceed to Constantinople. He will arrive
there shortly with his family.
	TWELVE HUNDRED lodges of the Sioux
are reported as moving to meet General
Crook.
	THE PRINCE of Wales visit to India, it
is thought, will be likely to create some
very important reforms, judging by Mr.
Conway's letter to London. The Prince
gave $1,000 to the local charities of Calcutta.
He also succeeded in relaxing, in some de-
gree, the restrictions placed upon women in
that country.


MISS ANNA OLIVER, of New York, at the
commencement of the Boston University,
received the degree of B. D. (Bachelor of
Divinity). Miss Oliver is the first woman
in America who has ever attained that de-
gree.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		19


For the EXPONENT.
PRAYER FOR THE EMIGRANTS.

	O God our Father and our King,
		We humbly bow to thee
	In prayer, that thou wilt bless thy Saints,
		Upon the boundless sea.
	And, as they cross the desert plains,
		Where red men fearless roam,
	Be thou with them e'en there, to guide
		Thy children safely home.

	Should enemies of light and truth
		Conspire to work them harm,
	Do thou, O Father, guard and shield
		Them with they Mighty arm.
	May they rejoice, like Israel's sons,
		Who once from bondage fled:
	But not like them, depart from thee,
		Their true and living Head.

	Inspire their leaders with the zeal
		Which fired Moses' breast;
	That they may lead the Saints in peace
		Unto their land of rest.
	O God, our Father and our king!
		Now, we have bowed to thee,
	We know that thou wilt guard and bless
		Thy Saints, on land or sea.
										UKA.


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.

			MANIT, SANPETE Co.,
					June 10th, 1876.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In a late article, it was asked, among other
things, "Why do women dress so elaborate-
ly?" Men's admiration, undoubtedly, has
something to do with it, and it is right that
it should be so. It is woman's God-given
prerogative to please, to CHARM, if you will;
herein lies her great power for good or evil,
and every right minded woman should do
her utmost to avail herself of every means in
her power to exercise this grand prerogative.
In dress as well as everything else. But I
would ask, Do our modern belles and women
of society do so for the admiration of man
alone? In nine-tenths instances the crea-
tion of envy, jealousy, and other kindred
passions in their rival sisters has as much
and more to do with it. In nine cases out
of ten a man is incapable of judging or ap-
preciating a modern woman's elaborate
toilet. It is certainly not he, but woman
who insists upon the genuineness of laces
diamonds, etc., and who is so often detecting
flaws in a rival's toilet.
	Undoubtedly it is true that ever since
Adam accused Eve in the Garden of Eden,
men have been laying the blame of every
great social wrong, in which both partici-
pated, on woman. And with a certain de-
gree of justice, for I hold that the relation-
ship between the two sexes is such as to ad-
mit of no distinction in such cases; and we
should be willing to take our share of the
blame. Men and women usually influence
each other, and, except in cases of trouble
or calamity, man's relation to woman is such
as to call forth the gentle rather than the
rigorous side of his character; his emotions
rather than his intellect; his weakness, than
his strength. And ours it should be to
guard against folly. It is needless to cite
instances in proof of this; each one of us
will readily call to mind instances in our
own experience, and history will furnish
others, of men, GREAT men, men of strong
character and exhibiting practical common
sense in all the walks of life, who neverthe-
less became imbecile and acted like fools in
cases where women were concerned. Let
us whom God has gifted with intuition al-
most prophetic, and quickness of percep-
tion and insight that shames the slower
reasoning powers of men, let us stand firm
if man does fall. Let us not quarrel with

[Column 2]
men like school-children accusing each
other of "having done it." God knows we
all have need of His infinite mercy.
	The acknowledged influence we have
hitherto, silently and in secret, for good and
bad, wielded in the affairs of men, let us,
as a united sisterhood, strive to increase;
and, still "seeking to please," wield it open-
ly and for good only. Let us commence
the reform by arousing the noblest instincts
and impulses among our sisters everywhere,
by inaugurating a new era of simplicity
and modesty, by moulding public oponion
so that it will interdict, and taboo as vulgar,
the extravagance that is complained of. Let
us commence at home by precept and ex-
ample, and eschew these useless recrimina-
tions. Let our actions, henceforth, speak
louder than words.
		WILHELMINA CHRISTAFFERSON.

				MANIT, May 18, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In reading the favorable reports of the
Relief Societies from different parts of the
Territory, I have been led to reflect, that of
all women on earth, we have the most rea-
son to be thankful. When I contrast our past
history with the present; my gratitude is
greater than I can express; and I think it
will be a blessing to us in years to come, to
keep before our children the privations and
hardships we have endured, instead of en-
couraging them in the fashions and vanities
of the world.
	I have not forgotten the sorrows of Nau-
voo, or the martyrdom of our beloved Pro-
phet and Patriarch. Yes, I saw their man-
gled bodies, and the grief of that sorrow
stricken people, which was too deep for ut-
terance. And then were we left unmolest-
ed? No. We were compelled to leave our
homes, and travel we knew not whither.
But we were hopeful and cheerful, for we
knew that the mantle of our beloved Pro-
phet had fallen upon President Brigham
Young, and in the midst of all our trials,
our trust was in God.
	Yes, I think it well to keep in remem-
brance the past history of the church, that
the rising generation may realize what we
have had to endure to obtain the blessings we
now enjoy.
	I will close by saying to my young sisters,
Do not get lifted up in pride, and follow
after the fashions of those who are not of
us, and remember that the blessings are due
to us only in accordance with our faithful-
ness and obedience to the requirements of
our Heavanly Father.
	Wishing you continued success and pros-
perity, I remain your sister in the gospel.
				REBECCA WAREHAM.

			ST. GEORGE, June 7th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In endeavoring to write this letter, the
little piece entitled "An Ode to My Son"
occurs to my mind. I do not suppose that a
mother ever existed that has not had the
same trouble when raising a family of small
children, unless, indeed, she is wealthy, and
can send her children into a nursery, and
instruct a servant to take entire charge of
them. But I dare say that such women, in
this Territory, are as few and far between
as angels' visits. And just to point these
remarks, here comes Mary with the baby,
said baby informing us as loudly as possible
that if his mamma does not instantly take
him into her arms, there will be a slight

[Column 3]
disurbance in this otherwise peaceful fam-
ily!
	There! I have at last set him down, to-
gether with almost every dish and spoon in
the house; perhaps I shall be able to write
a few more lines, I hope so, at least.
	I suppose you heard through the papers,
of the Conference, so I will try to speak of
some things that will be new and interest-
ing.
	Some two weeks ago Brothers M. Young
and M. Hardy visited the Young Men's and
Young Ladies' joint meeting, and addressed
them in very able and timely language.
They urged the young people to go ahead
in the good work they had undertaken, and
instructed them concerning their duties as
brethren and sisters in the church, and ex-
horted them to improve every opportunity
of improving themselves, and gaining useful
knowledge.
	Two weeks after this the Young Ladies'
regular meeting convened, which I attended.
The President, Miss Libbie Snow, is in
every way adapted to the position she holds,
being very quiet and steady, and simple in
her dress. She is old enough to realize her
responsibility, and is really one of the most
popular young ladies in this city. She spoke
to the girls about obedience, and encour-
aged them to take an interest in their meet-
ings. She referred to the subject of prayer,
and instructed the girls at some length up-
on their duties in this respect.
	There were some beautiful selections
read, and two most excellent essays read on
Faith and on Duty to Parents. Both of them
showing thought and study.
	The different members bore their testimo-
ny, and the President appointed the meet-
ings for every Thursday at 4 o'clock, instead
of every other Saturday at 2.
	The Society has but recently been organ-
ized, consequently, the girls do not yet rea-
lize its consequence as they will at a future
time. Still, they all have a good spirit,
and are willing to obey counsel.
	I would like to speak of the noble Tem-
ple, but I don't think I will have space in
this letter, and will reserve that subject for
a future time.
	Allow me to remember myself to all my
dear friends in Salt Lake City, and more
especially to Sisters Eliza R. Snow and Zina
D. Young.
	I will write again soon, if I can interest
your readers.
					Yours, &c.,
							S. Y. D.


THE NEWS of the death of Madame Du-
devaunt has been telegraphed to America.
This lady is well known as an author and
novelist under the "nom de plume of "George
Sand." She was born in the castle of No-
hant, and there also she spent the last years
of her truly eventful life. The "Woman's
Journal" says—"France has had no woman
since Madame de Stael who will compare
with her, and in the higher realm of intel-
lectual creation the latter is superior to the
former." "As a writer, she stands foremost
among the few leading women of the
world." The "New York Tribune" in speak-
ing of her says—"Her style was as superior
to that of Madame de Stael, as beautiful,
breathing life is to sculptured marble. Here-
in she surpasses the only living woman wor-
thy to be placed beside her.—George Elliot.
						In the field of in-
tellectual exertion and achievement, she
did a man's task, and her legacy to "the
world is all the more valuable because she
did it in a woman's way."


20		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,	} Editors
EMMELINE B. WELLS. 		}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
[-]1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpare[-]l space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 1, 1876.


[Column 1]
		THE CENTENNIAL YEAR OF
				AMERICA.

	It is scarcely possible to take up a newspa-
per, periodical, etc., but contain some indica-
tion, notice or announcement in regard to the
Centennial of America.
	If we should fail to notice it editorially, we
undoubtedly should be looked upon as out of
style; or heretic; this in itself may be of very
little consequence, but after all, one likes to be
in keeping with their surroundings, and not
too far removed from their cotemporaries in
matters national, political and general. Thus
it follows that we, too, must express our opin-
ion concerning the Grand Centennial year, es-
pecially as judging the future by the past, we
shall not be likely to enjoy another opportu-
nity.
	If our opinion were of the slightest weight, we
would not hesitate to launch forth in words
expressive of our intense regret that one hun-
dred years of glorious freedom and liberty had
virtually boasted so much, and accomplished
so little towards equality of rights and true
principles of government.
	Where is the equality of rights and privil-
eges which the Constitution (so wisely framed,
by the noble patriots of American Indepen-
dence) guarantees to all who take shelter under
its broad folds.
	The speech of Miss Phebe Cozens at the St.
Louis Convention was well-timed and appro-
priately worded. It is a history in itself,
touching and eloquent; the echo of the voices
of the noblest women in America, asking only
for their own legitimate heritage, bequeathed
through the blood of their ancestry.
	We glory in the heroism and true nobility
that enables women to stand up in defense of
their sex in the face of opposition, ridicule,
and of the great tyrant CUSTOM.
	It is woman herself who hinders the pro-
gress of her own cause in a great degree.
Afraid of losing favor with man, and so in
many instances exchanges for it her self-res-
pect, yes, barters it for a mess of pottage, un-
savory and uncertain.
	A lady friend of ours remarked to us recently
that she was quite willing her individuality
should be swallowed up in that of her husband!
How many have found too late, alas! this idol-
worship only an idle farce, when the husband's
honor, character and self-respect were all
merged into the demon of the grog-shop. Then
indeed she stands sadly in need of all the indi-
viduality she can call into action, as well as all
the force of character it is possible to cultivate,
after her affections have been slighted and
spurned. Better to teach the daughters of the
nation tIe power of self-protection than to in-
stil into their young and tender minds

[Column 2]
the power of fascination through the influence
of personal charms, of face, dress or manners.
	Let them shine by the intelligence of their
own minds and not by that reflected from man.
Let woman be qualified to stand alone if neces-
sary, and then if she become a wife or mother,
she can act with wisdom and judgment; and if
her path be in smooth and quiet places; she is
none the less womanly because of her innate
powers. But should her lot be cast in rough
and thorny paths. how great her need of
strength from within and without to endure.
Remember there are many lonely walks in life,
and it is necessary to be well armed with cour-
age and fortitude.
	We are no doubt wandering from our subject,
but ere we close, we will offer a prayer in be-
half of the women of America: May they ere
long be qualified to fill the highest positions of
honor and trust in the Cabinet of the Nation
and may they wield a sceptre of power by the
distinction of true merit and legitimate and
undisputed right, and not through the influ-
ence of their charms or attractions.


[Column 1]
CELEBRATION OF PREST. B. YOUNG'S
		BIRTHDAY AT ST. GEORGE.

	At five o'clock the morning of June 1, 1876,
the anniversary of the birth of President
Young in 1801. the String Band serenaded the
President; this was the first intimation he had
that the day was remembered; indeed the en-
tire proceedings were a complete surprise, and
he remarked jocosely to his family that he
thought he was "away down in Dixie" where
no one would think of his birthday and it would
pass over quietly. He was reminded that if he
wished to go where there was no one that loved
him and desired to manifest it, he must retire
alone into a howling wilderness.
	At 10 o'clock the St. George Choir, under the
direction of J. McFarland, visited the Presi-
dent at his house, and saluted him, first with an
invocation by Joseph Orton, "O Lord thy ser-
vants bless, &c.," followed by "All Hail Our
Noble Chieftain," &., composed for the occa-
sion by Mrs. A. Randall, and "God Bless Thy
Chosen Seer," by C. L. Walker.
	The President saluted them with gr[-]te[-]ul
thanks as he shook hands with each one cor-
dially.
	At 12 o'clock he attended the fast meeting in
the large, new Tabernacle; a very large con-
gregation were assembled, and after the busi-
ness of the day was transacted, Bro. McDonald
informed President Young that a number of
congratulatory pieces had been written in hon-
or of the day, and requested Bro. Bleak to read
them to the assembly.
	There were toasts by Bro. and Sister Wind-
ser, acrostic by Bro. Granger, verses by Mrs.
Emily Spencer, Mrs. Martha Bigelow and the
little Misses Bigelow. Mrs. Susie Dunford then
read toasts written by Mrs. L. B. Young, and
an address composed by herself for the Special
Occasion.
	President Young was quite overcome, and
could not altogether restrain his feelings. He
arose and expressed his great pleasure and sin-
cere thanks to all for the expression of good
feeling manifested to him. He was filled with
the Holy Ghost, and spoke with great power
and fervor.
	At the close of the meeting, upon driving
home he was met at the door by twelve young
misses dressed in white and bedecked with
flowers, they strewed his path with roses as he
stepped from the carriage, and sang the beau-
tiful and appropriate song composed for the oc-
casion, "On this thy Natal Day," &c. This

[Column 2]
seemed to affect him deeply, he could scarcely
command himself sufficiently to express his
thanks.
	At his own house an elegant repast was
served, and from there he proceeded by invita-
tion to the house of Elder McDonald, where
all the brethren of this vicinity, over seventy,
were ready to receive and congratulate him.
Cake and wine were served, and the band
again serenaded him.
	The evening was spent in social converse
with his own family.
	The day was a charming one, and all the in-
cidents were those calculated to leave pleasant
impressions upon the minds and hearts of the
participants. Mrs. L. B. Young was the ori-
ginator and prime moving power of the cele-
bration. Everything was in perfect order and
harmony; a feeling of unity and a good spirit
pervaded the whole affair.
							SALAOME.
	ST. GEORGE, June 1, 1876.
	We were not able to publish the en-
tire communication, as it arrived too late,
our columns being already nearly full. The
poems have been printed in St. George, and the
"Utah Pomologist" will probably contain fuller
particulars.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THIS EVENING, July 1st, there will be an en-
tertainment in the Social Hall, consisting of
some of the choicest musical talent of the
young people of this city. There will be a
variety of exquisite songs, with recitations, se-
lect readings, guitar and flute duets, to con-
clude with the Melodrama of Robert Macaire.
It is designed to be a unique affeir. In times
past musical and dramatic home-talent in Salt
Lake City was something to be proud of; and
there is no reason why it should not be of the
same character now. We would like to see
our young people excel in every department of
artistic taste and skill.
	MISS M. E. COOK'S Graded School closed its
yearly term for the summer vacation, Friday
afternoon, June 16. The exercises consisted of
select readings, declamations, dialogues, songs,
piano solos, etc. There were quite a [-]umber of
visitors present, who were agreeably entertain-
ed, everything having been managed for the oc-
casion with special care and attention, and the
most perfect order prevailing. Miss Cook and
the young lady teachers associated with her in
this institution, are thorough and earnest
workers in the cause of education, and deserve
the sincere approbation of all who are inter-
ested in promoting the education of the young
and rising generation. On Monday, July 3d,
Miss M. E. Cook will re-open for a summer
term of five weeks, to accommodate pupils
from the country and others who are desirous
of pursuing their studies without cessation.
		1776, FOURTH OF JULY, 1876,
	Being the great Centennial Day, there will
be a "Ladies' Centennial Exc[---] to
Haights Grove, Lake Side; on that day; leav-
ing Salt Lake City at 8 o'clock a. m., returning
at 7 p. m.
	Speeches, singing, dancing, blind man's buff,
bathing, and other games will be the order of
of ths day.
	Dinner and supper can be obtained at the
grove.
	Tickets $1.00 can be obtained at Co-op.,
Dwyers, Jennings', Teasdel's, and at all the
Ward Stores, and of
		Mrs. E. Davis,	}
		"	S. Strock,	}	Committee:
		Miss. L. Davis,	}


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		21


THE FAIR.

	IN Honor of the memorable Fourth of July,
					177,
the glorious Birthday of our Nation, the
Women's Centennial Fair will open on the
Fourth of July,.
					1876,
at 12. m., in the "OLD CONSTITUTION'
Building a few doors south of C. R. Savage's
Art Gallery.
	It will probably continue four weeks open-
ing at 10 a. m., and closing at 8 p. m.

			PRICES OF ADMISSION.

	For adults,............................................25 cts.
	Children under 12,...............................10 cts.
	Except Saturdays, when each admission will
	be 10 cents.
						E. R. Snow, Prest.
						L. A. ASHBY, Sec'y.


OBITUARIES.

			Dr. Levi Richards.

	The mortal career of this well known and be-
loved Elder in Israel, terminated Sunday, June
18, 1876. His physical organization had been
gradually sinking for some months, but a se-
vere cold. taken a few days previous to his
death, was regarded as the immediate cause.
	Deceased was the fourth son of Joseph and
Rhoda Richards, and was born April 14, 1799,
at Hopkinton, Massachusetts. He was raised
a farmer; but led by his natural genius and in-
clinations, early in life he turned his attention
to other pursuits, and acquired an extensive
knowledge and skill as a mechanician, scien-
tist and physician. For almost forty years he
has been an active and useful member of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
and has filled different positions of honor and
trust, with discretion and ability. The perse-
cutions and trials to which the Saints have
been subjugated, he endured with remarkable
calmness and fortitude. He was naturally
humble, retiring and unobtrusive.

	Not to the swift, nor even to the strong,
		The race, the battle, victory belong;
	But unto such as thee, most honored friend,
	Who fill their missions faithful to the end.
		No brilliant, e[-]logistic wreath for thee,
	Thy noble, blameless life hath need of none:
		Henceforth from earthly care and suffering free,
	A glorious crown and mansion thou hast won.
		We mourn thy loss, for thou wert very dear,
	Thy counsel wise, all thy instructions pure;
		May our life records as thine own be clear,
	And our inheritance like thine be sure.

		MRS. PATIENCE HAMPTON.

	We, the sisters of the Sixteenth Ward Re-
lief Society, have been deprived of our highly
esteemed President, Mrs. Patience Hampton,
by death; and while we feel the loss, we ac-
knowledge the hand of God, and feel that our
loss was her infinite gain.
	During the four years she has presided over
us she has honored her office and calling. She
was a most hospitable woman, a true friend to
the poor, and by her example proved to her
sisters and to her family that she was a true
Saint. Her cares and her labors were more
than her frail nature could endure longer, and
she became depressed in spirits and wished to
go to rest. In her last hours she bore a faith-
ful testimony to her family and friends that
she knew that her Redeemer lived; and she de-
sired to go and dwell with her loved ones who
had gone before to the Paradise of God.
	Patience Hampton, deceased, beloved wife
of Benjamin Hampton, was born Sep. 15, 1815,


Gloster Co., New Jersey; she was baptized in-
to the Church of Latter-day Saints by Elder
Elan Warton, in March, 1847, at Philadelphia,
Penn; died June 1st, 1876, at Salt Lake City.
She leaves numerous friends and acquaintan-
ces, who will miss her genial presence among
them, and will not readily forget her wise and
judicious counsel and generous beneficence.
								COM.


For the EXPONENT
			BEAUTIFUL SPOTS.

	Different individuals have different ideas
about the beautiful, and perhaps the scenery
upon which I am now gazing with admiration
would scarcely be considered worth passing no-
tice to eyes accustomed to grander and more
beautiful specimens of nature's works. But
to me it is a charming spot. Wooed, as it
were, from the cares and worries of busy city
life, and enchanted with the sights and sounds
with which I am surrounded, I hallow the spot,
and will ever hold its remembrance sacred in
the years to come.
	I am now standing upon the bluffs overlook-
ing the little settlement of Easton; with its
many fields of grain and its appearance of
peace and plenty, it makes us feel to thank
the great Giver of Good. Turning my eyes to
the East, I notice Weber Canon, with its tall,
snow-capped mountains towering up on each
side. From this canon flows the Weber River,
which cannot be described as a great silver
snake winding its way through the valley, for
it is more of a raging, rushing torrent, foaming
and fretting in its course. I now turn my eyes
to the north, where I faintly hear the tinkling
of bells; there I see many herds browsing up-
on the herbage, while all around me the birds
are caroling joyously, and the hum of thou-
sands of insects falls drowsily upon my ear.
Sol's resplendent rays coming down with in-
creased force reminds me that the hour of mid-
day is drawing nigh, and I slowly wend my
way towards the homestead. Ah! what is this?
A tiny bird's nest with three little nestlings
in it. How wonderfully constructed!—
			"It was my admiration
	To view the structure of that little work—
	A bird's nest. Mark it well, within, without,
	No tool had he that wrought; no knife to cut,
	No glue to join; his little beak was all,
	And yet how neatly finished!"
								HURDIS.
	This spot will always be endeared to me, on
account of the peaceful repose I have had here.
There "are none to make afraid," and one can
take some dear old volume and enjoy the grate-
ful repose offered by one of nature's own bow-
ers, or roam over the grassy hills and gather
garlands of wildw[-]od roses, lovely white lilies,
and daisies. Thus the spot seems beautiful to
me, and I am happy, truly happy for a time.
								POSEY.


MY DEAR OLD MAID.

	I hope you do not object to the construc-
tion of the above appellation: "it suits my
fancy well."
	So you are employed in school-teaching.
Very good. There is no higher, nobler pur-
suit, in my estimation, than that of training
and aiding the mind of youth. Permit me
to inform you that a goodly portion of my
time is also occupied in the same direction;
and that I know something about the diffi-
culties that [---]t you in your attempts to
write.
	I have no means of judging your exact
age, but I feel fully persuaded that I am in
advance of you in years. For this reason,


I take the liberty of dropping a few hints
just here, in regard to teaching, which I
hope will prove acceptable. Very likely
you might give me many good ideas in re-
turn, gleaned from your own experience,
which would be very valuable.
	In the first place, (you will think I am
finding fault with you perhaps, but I assure
you it is all in good will and good nature,)
never cuff or pull a child's ears. If he is
so careless as to tread on your toes, and you
feel that you must retaliate, better do so
(not too harshly) in the same manner. He
may have no corns, or he may have on such
coarse cowhide shoes that your weight on
one of them would make little impression;
still, the simple act will be longer remem-
bered, and the lesson better enforced there-
by; than anything in the distressing and
positively injurious ear-punishing process
could effect.
	Some young teachers, especially women,
make too hard work of their business; fret
because they cannot compel unwilling
scholars to learn, because they cannot crowd
into the brains of the willing ones as much
as they would like in a certain length of
time, and many such things. Thus they
are apt to make both themselves and their
pupils unhappy. I hope that you are not
one of this kind. I always think that a
good, patient school-teacher would make an
agreeable and considerate husband or wife;
I should never choose, for a life companion,
a teacher who was not a favorite with the
children—if I knew it—would you?
	It affords me pleasure to be able to assure
you that your opinions concerning poetry
and the poets, so far as you have acquainted
me with them, correspond with my
own perfectly. I do not comprehend the
necessity, if there is any, for a poem or ro-
mance to ever terminate sadly.
	For a fair representation of nameless
cases in society of the present age, I con-
sider "Petroleum V. Nasby's" "Hannah
Jane" a rich production; what do you
think of it?
	I don't know but those women Editors
will think this article too lengthy, and clip
it unless I cut it short myself.
	Hoping for another favor from your pen
ere long, and—if I may venture so far—
trusting that at some future day I may have
the pleasure of your personal acquaintance,
I am with much respect,
							Yours,
								HAL.


FLOWERS.

	THE PEBBLES in our path weary us, and
make us footsore more than the rocks, which
require only a bold effort to surmount.
	TAKE ALL sorrow out of life, and you
take away all richness and depth and ten-
derness. Sorrow is the furnace that melts
selfish hearts together in love.
	THE MOST important lesson in life is to
know how to be happy with our own home,
our own comforts, and to share our affections
with those of our own household, not to re-
fine away happiness by thinking that that
which is good might be better.
	THERE ARE none living who do not, in a
greater or less degree, have an influence
over the happiness of others. The sense of
contributing to the pleasure of others aug-
ments our own happiness. Unselfishness,
Christian charity, and loving kindness are
sunbeams of the soul.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

FARMINGTON, DAVIS Co.,
	June 12th, 1876.
Editor Exponent:
	It is my intention to send a report of our
affairs at least once a year, so that we may
not be lost entirely to the public.
	The society of this place held their
Eighth Annual Meeting on Wednesday,
June 7th, 1876. Bishop John W. Hess,
Elders Thomas Groves and Jonathan Holmes
were present at the meeting, and after hear-
ing the financial statement read, spoke en-
couragingly to the sisters. Bishop Hess
said he saw but very little in the papers
about the society at Farmington, but felt
they were not behind their sister societies,
and were improving slowly but surely. His
remarks were mostly on what had been done
by the society; the good results, &c.; men-
tioning the making of silk and setting out
mulberry trees, In my last report I said
we had persons here who were competent
to make silk. Since then, Sisters Lucinda
Robinson and Nancy Clark, have spun some
silk thread, and Brother Hadfield has woven
it into handkerchiefs, and they are now pre-
paring a piece of silk for dresses. I cannot
describe my feelings when I saw the first
skein of silk made here; but I thought that
anything could be accomplished if the peo-
ple only had the will, and would make the
effort. Our President, Mrs Holmes, and
her counselors, mean the silk business shall
be a success if their energy and labor can
bring it about. They spent days last fall in
getting a mulberry orchard of over one
hundred trees set out on a piece of ground
given to the society by Brother Grover for
that purpose. Many do not know the in-
conveniences Pres't Holmes has had to work
under, living as she does about two miles
out of town, but she has a husband, accord-
ing to her statement, who has never re-
fused to harness his team and either bring
her himself, or send some one with her
when she wishes to come to a meeting or
on other business.
	Our millinery establishment is in a flour-
ishing condition.
	Judging the spirit of the sisters by the
increase of the number who take the EX-
PONENT this year, I should say it was good.
	We have lately been called upon to part
with a dear friend by death. Sister Betsey
Steed, who died May 12th, 1876, after an
illness of about two months. She had been
a faithful teacher in the society for a num-
ber of years, also a member of the Farming-
ton choir. She was a good friend to the
sick and poor, and will be missed by many.
She left one child, a boy 14 years old, and a
husband, who is on a mission to Australia.
The funeral sermon was preached by Elder
Joseph F. Smith, and in his remarks he
spoke very pointedly upon the SEALING
POWER, and I think none who heard him
could pass his words by without reflecting
upon them seriously.
	Your sister, &c.,
		AURELIA S. ROGERS.

PAYSON, May 30, 1876.
Editor Exponent:
	The Relief Society of this place held their
8th annual meeting May 24th. On the
stand were President Jane Simons, her
counselors Mrs. Agnes Douglas and Mrs.
Mary Moore, Bishops Tanner and Halliday.
Several visitors, by invitation, from Santa-
quin, Goshen and Salem, represented their
Relief Societies.
	Home Industry was well represented.

[COLUMN 2]

	Brothers Barry Wild, I. M. Coombs, J.
Forsgreen, J. L. Townsend, Bishop Tanner
and Bishop Halliday applauded the sisters
for their talent and ingenuity; the needle
and straw work, it was thought, could not
be excelled. All acknowledged there was
talent in Payson.
	There were different kinds of fancy work,
knitted, netted, and crochet tidies, bed-
spreads, crochet and woven, besides ele-
gant quilts. A beautiful specimen of pen-
manship, by J. L. Townsend, also an eagle
and other birds preserved by him.
	Brother Townsend desired an interest in
the sisters' prayers, as he left Payson for
St. George the following morning, being
called upon to assist the carpenters on the
Temple.
	The Annual Report was read by the sec-
retary, which showed that we had received
during the year $131.51, and disbursed
$156.63.
	A piece composed by Mrs Anna Taylor
was read by President Jane Simons. A
piece by Mrs. Jennie Cowan and one by
Mrs. Rebecca Daniels were read by the sec-
retary.
	A good spirit prevails. We have good
meetings, and good faithful sisters in our
midst, who are always ready to be one with
our President and her counselors. In our
meetings the sisters often thank God that
they are privileged to live in this day; real-
izing that a great and important time is
near; hoping to keep humble and prayerful
that we may endure and be numbered
with the faithful. We realize the truth of
Brother Hallidays words, that Eliza R.
Snow's instructions were true, that our mis-
sion was not only to administer to the poor,
but strive to save souls.
	The EXPONENT is a welcome visitor
among us; we pray for its success, and may
God bless and aid you ln your labors.
	Your sister in the gospel,
		M. A. HARDY.


[COLUMN 1]

A HUNDRED YEARS HENCE.

	The opponents of Woman Suffrage often
assert that the movement makes no progress,
because it is defeated year after year in Par-
liament and Congress and State Legisla-
ture. Even friends of Woman Suffrage
sometimes express disappointment at the
continued postponement of their hopes.
But the true grandeur of our work becomes
apparent when we consider the startling
facts contained in the synopsis of a recent
Monday Lecture by Rev. Joseph Cook, en-
titled "The Future of America," which we
reprint in another column. However long
the triumph of Woman Suffrage may be
postponed, our work of leavening the pub-
lic sentiments of America will have been
of priceless value, a work timely, beneficient,
indispensable, and providential.
	Mr. Cook proves, by a series of scientific
propositions, that this continent is capable
of sustaining a larger population than all
the rest of the world combined; that the
growth of population follows a law whichwill give us in the year 2000, one hundred
million inhabitants, in 2300, eight hundred
millions, in 2500, thirty-two hundred mil-
lions. In other words, that within six cen-
turies, America will contain twice as many
inhabitants as the whole world now con-
tains.
	Six centuries ago, William Wallace and
Robert Bruce were vindicating Scottish
Independence. Magna Charta, granted a
century before, had been solemnly confirm-
ed by King Edward. The House of Haps-
burg was already on the throne of Austria.

[COLUMN 2]

The temporal supremacy of the Pope had
been already successfully defied. "Then it
was," says Macaulay, "that the great Eng-
lish people was formed; that the national
character began to exhibit those peculiari-
ties which it has ever since retained. Then
first appeared with distinctness that Consti-
tution, which has ever since, through all
changes, preserved its identity; that Con-
stitution of which all other free Constitu-
tions in the world are copies, and which,
in spite of some defects, deserves to be re-
garded as the best under which any great
society has ever yet existed during many
ages. Then it was that the House of Com-
mons, the archetype of all the representa-
tive assemblies which now meet, either in
the Old or New World, held its first sittings.
Then it was that the common law rose to
the dignity of a science, and rapidly became
a not unworthy rival of the Imperial juris-
prudence. Then it was that the courage of
the sailors who manned the rude barks of
the Cinque Ports first made the flag of Eng-
land terrible on the seas. Then it was that
the most ancient colleges that still exist at
both the great national seats of learning
were founded. Then was formed that lan-
guage, less musical, indeed, than the lan-
guages of the South, but in force, in rich-
ness, in aptitude for all the highest purposes
of the poet, the philosopher, and the orator,
inferior to that of Greece alone. Then, too,
appeared the first faint dawn of that noble
literature, the most splendid and the most
durable of the many glories of England."
	Thus we stand—we of the present gener-
ation—half way between the birth of Anglo-
Saxon political life, and its Continental de-
velopment in a population of three thou-
sand millions. Six centuries ago, Magna
Charta was wrested from the Barons by the
King. To-day, we see the application of its
principles to one half of the people—all
men sovereigns; all women subjects. This
is the result of six centuries of ceaseless agi-
tation. Would it be surprising, if six cen-
turies more were required to complete the
work? Would it be discouraging, if the
less muscular arm of Woman, battling with
the greed and selfishness and animalism of
the existing aristocracy of sex, was as slow
in achieving her political emancipation as
that of her brother has been? The little
army of women and men who struggle to-
day for equal rights of women, are the pio-
neers of the generations yet to come. Abby
Kelly Foster and Lucretia Mott and Sarah
Grimke and L. Maria Child, six centuries
hence, will be regarded as the Wallace and
Bruce and Joan of Arc, of six centuries ago,
are regarded by the men and women of to-
day.	Not that I anticipate a fight of six centu-
ries for Woman Suffrage. Progress is cumu-
lative. The circle, as it widens, sweeps
over larger and larger areas. It is only 400
years since the printing press was invented.
It is less than two centuries since the news-
paper came into being. It is less than a
century since the railroad and the steam-
boat were invented! It is less than thirty
years since the telegraph came into exist-
ence. The modern world of industry and
masculine co-operation is the work of the
closing century. It is the product of Man-
hood suffrage. Let a nobler world of Edu-
cation, Temperance, Purity, and Peace be
the creation of the coming century. It will
be the product of Impartial Suffrage, of
the equal co-operation of men and women.
	H. B. B.—Ex.


Carrots should be cleaned by being brushed in
water: scraping causes them to lose their flavor.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

ALICE AND PHOBE CAERY.

A FRAGMENT

*	*	*	Alice bore, through life,
the scar left by an early attachment to
which her lover had proved false.
	To Phebe, a love deep enough to have
culminated in marriage came only late in
life, when she found the tendrils of her af-
fections which had wound about the dear old
home so interlaced with those of Alice, that
she could not transplant her own without up-
rooting her sister's. She put aside the bright
dream unfalteringly, and Alice never knew
what it cost her.
	The closing scenes of these lives are full
of pathos. Alice, spent with toil, surren-
dered life with clinging reluctance, and
Phebe, though she struggled bravely to
keep cheerfully on in the work which was
now all her own, could not live without the
strength and affection on which she had al-
ways leaned. By force of circumstances,
Phebe was deprived, in her last days, of
the presence of those nearest and dearest.
Long the center of a brilliant circle, in the
extreme hour, she asked, with touching ap-
peal, "Where are my friends?" Yet their
love had not failed her, and tenderly it fol-
lows her to their new home beyond the
grave.
	Only a biographer at once so gifted and
so loving as Mrs. Ames could have answered
so well the public desire for a record of the
lives of these two noble women.
	As a ballad writer Alice excelled, but if
the poetry of either is written for posterity
it seems to us to be that of Pheobe. In
vigor of conception, depth of passion and
power of dramatic expression, she was much
superior to Alice, while she was not less en-
dowed with tenderness. We would quote,
if we had space, "A Dying Hymn," "A Sure
Witness," "A Woman's Conclusions," and
"Nearer Home." The latter seems worthy
a permanent place in our hymnology.
	As less familiar, and as Pheobe's word to
those she left, we quote:

	Putting Off the Armor.

"Why weep ye for the falling
	Of the transient twilight gloom?
I am weary of the journey,
	And have come in sight of home.

"I can see a white procession
	Sweep melodiously along,
And I would not have your mourning
	Drown the sweetness of their song.

"The battle strife is ended;
	I have scaled the hindering wall,
And am putting off the armor
	Of the soldier—that is all!

"Would you hide me from my pleasures?
	Would you hold me from my rest?
From my serving and my waiting
	I am called to be a guest!

"Of its heavy, hurtful burdens
	Now my spirit is released;
I am done with fasts and scourges,
	And am bidden to the feast.

"While you see the sun descending
	While you lose me in the night,
Lo, the heavenly morn is breaking,
	And my soul is in the light.

"I from faith to sight am rising,
	While in depths of doubt you sink:
'Tis the glory that divides us,
	Not the darkness as you think.

"Then lift up your drooping eyelids,
	And take heart of better cheer;
'Tis the cloud of coming spirits
	Makes the shadows that ye fear.

"Oh, they come to bear me upward
	To the mansion of the sky,
And to change as I am changing
	Is to live and not to die;

[COLUMN 2]

"Is to leave the pain, the sickness,
	And the smiting of the rod,
And to dwell among the angels.
	In the city of our God."

M.F.E.


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.

		CANTON, FULTON Co., Ill.,
					May 31st, 1865.
DEAR BROTHER AND SISTER:
	Your very welcome letter bearing date of
May 19th reached me all safe yesterday
I was pleased to learn that you were all
well, and that Dora is a "fond mother."
	It seems, from the storms you have been
having, that times and seasons are begin-
ing to change in that part of the country.
	You say Hela says he may be home before
the year is out, and you wish to know if I
can say the same, "I may be," but
that is as near as I know about it. I intend
to stay until I am released to come home;
when that will be I cannot say, but I can
assure you that when the word comes I will
try and be prepared. I should like very
well, if the Lord is willing, to return home
this fall, and it would be an unspeakable
pleasure to me to be permitted to eat my
next Christmas dinner with the family at
mother's, as in "days of yore," but be that
as it may, I will try and content myself un-
til I am released; and I hope and pray that
the Lord will direct me and bless me with
His Holy Spirit, that I may grow in grace
and the knowledge of the truth, and gain
wisdom and understanding, that I may be
able to honor my priesthood and calling, and
be instrumental in the hands of God
in spreading the seeds of righteousness
among the honest where it will be cherished
and bring forth good fruit.
	I will now speak of my travels. On the
8th inst. I left St. Louis. in company with
Elders D. M. Stuart and Jos. G. Young, on
board the steamer "Northwestern," bound
for Keokuk, Iowa. We had a delightful
sail up the Missouri River, a distance of
208 miles. The scenery on the way is beau-
tiful! The river is high, and each bank is
thickly covered with timber, the trees are
all out in leaf, and there are numerous is-
lands also covered with heavy green foliage.
To appreciate this beautiful scenery, a per-
son should arise and go out on deck before
the sun is up, on a clear morning, when the
surface of the water is as smooth as glass,
with hardly a ripple to be seen. I think I
never saw anything so grand in all my life.
	The steamer was a large, well finished
and splendidly furnished one. We lived
like princes while on the boat, it was very
similar indeed to hotel life.
	We arrived at Keokuk on the evening of
the 19th, where we found Brother J. F.
Wells awaiting us, the next morning Bro.
Wells went to Carthage, and we took train
for Montrose, which is opposite Nauvoo;
visited Nauvoo that day; in the evening
Bro. Joseph G. Young left us for Council
Bluffs, Iowa, there to join Bro. James A.
Little, and to labor with him.
	Sunday 21st, Bro. Stuart and I held a
meeting in Nauvoo; this was the first that
has been held there by Utah Elders since
our people left there. We had good atten-
tion, and the people wished us to hold other
meetings. We stayed around that part of
the country until last Monday, held a meet-
ing in Montrose Tuesday evening 23rd, had
a crowded house and good attention; the
Sunday School Choir sang for us. At Nau-
voo we found friends who were very hos-
pitable, and we were well entertained. We

[Column 2]
visited Emma Smith, now Mrs. Bidamon,
and took dinner at her place.
	Father's house is standing in good order,
and is occupied by a Catholic priest, who
showed us through the house, and made
me a present of a picture of the house and
a church that is built on the lot. Many
other houses that were built by our people
are still standing in good condition.
	Last Sunday we held a good meeting at
Nauvoo in the City Hall. At the close of
the meeting we sang "All are Talking of
Utah," which highly delighted the people.
	To me Nauvoo is the nicest site for a city
that I ever saw, but it is about the dullest
place in the country now; it seems that
there is a curse resting upon it.
	I rowed a boat across the River the other
day. It is about two miles wide at that
point.
	Monday we visited Carthage, and were
shown through the old jail, where the Pro-
phet Joseph and his brother Hyrum were
martyred, saw the place in the door where
the bullet went through that killed Hyrum,
and other marks that still remain as me-
mentoes of the horrible deed. From Car-
tharge we took train to Canton, where we
found Bros. Wells and Williams awaiting
our arrival at the depot; they conducted us
to the house of the latter, where we are en-
tertained very hospitably by his intelligent
family.
	Canton is a nice place. We will remain
in this region until Sunday next, holding
meetings and visiting the Saints in this
branch, then we will make our way down
to St. Lous.
			Yours ever,
				MATHONI WOOD PRATT.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	This letter is from the fifteenth son of
Parley P. Pratt, deceased, and as I read it I
was reminded of the EXPONENT, and
thought that the contents might interest its
many readers.
	Some years ago when this lad was a daily
listener to my instructions, I told him he
was then qualifying himself for a mission-
ary, like unto his father; and with what
pleasure I have watched him developing
into manhood and nobility.
	How pleasant it is for a teacher to see the
results of her arduous labors as she mingles
in the society she has helped to form!
	That germ implanted by the teacher in
the heart of her pupil, is reflected like the
dew shed upon the foliage; it is refreshed
and beautified, and lends its enchantment
to the eye of the beholder.
	Then, my fellow laborers, do not be dis-
couraged, but continue in assisting to im-
plant the germ of true usefulness in the
hearts and heads of the rising generation,
and you will reap your reward, for seed
sown upon good ground will increase an
hundred fold.
							I'LL TRY.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. MARY LIVERMORE, after her lec-
turing tour through California, returned to
her home in Boston, rested only three days,
then proceeded to Philadelphia, to take
part in the great Convention of the Tem-
perance Women of America. The Woman's
Journal" says of her—"There is not one
man in a thousand, even of those who
are accustomed to public life, who could do
the work and endure the fatigue which this
lady has endured during the past seven
years. In view of such an example, the
question of woman's comparative physical
and mental ability for severe and protracted
labor is not only proved, but demonstrated."


24		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMEN AND WINES.

	Of the worst foes woman has ever had to
encounter, wine stands at the head. The
appetite for strong drink in man has spoiled
the lives of more women—ruined more
hopes for them, scattered more fortunes for
them, brought to them more shame, sorrow
and hardship—than any other evil that
lives. The country numbers tens of thou-
sands—nay, hundreds of thousands—of wo-
men who are widows to-day, and sit in
hopeless weeds, because their husbands have
been slain by strong drink.
	There are hundreds of thousands of homes
scattered all over the land, in which women
live lives of torture, going between all the
changes of suffering that lie between fear
and despair, because those whom they love,
love wine better than the women they have
sworn to love. There are women by the
thousands who dread to hear at the door
the step that once thrilled them with pleas-
ure, because that step has learned to reel
under the influence of the seductive poi-
son.
	There are women groaning with pain,
while we write these words, from bruises
and brutalities inflicted by husbands made
mad by drink.
There can be no exaggeration in any state-
ment made in regard to this matter, because
no human imagination can create anything
worse than the truth, and no pen is capable
of portraying the truth. The sorrows and
horrors of a mother with a drunken son,
are asnear the realization of hell as can be
reached in this world at least.
	The shame, the indignation, the sorrow,
the sense of disgrace for herself and for her
children, the poverty—and not unfrequent-
ly the beggary, the fear and not the act of
violence, the lingering, life long struggle,
and despair of countless women with drunk-
en husbands, are enough to make all women
curse wine, and engage unitedly to oppose
it everywhere as the worst enemy to their
sex.
	Woman, there are some things that you
can do, and this is one; you can make drink
unpopular and disgraceful among the young.
You can utterly discountenance drinking in
your own house, and you can hold in sus-
picion every young man who touches the
cup. You know that no young man who
drinks can safely be intrusted with the hap-
piness of any woman, and he is an unfit as
man can be for woman's society. Have this
understood: that every young man who
drinks is socially proscribed. Bring up your
children to regard drinking as not only dan-
gerous but disgraceful. Place temptation in
no man's way. If men will make beasts of
themselves, let them do it in other society
than yours.
	Recognize the living, terrible fact that
wine has always been, and is to-day, the
curse of your sex; that it steals the hearts
of men away from you, that it dries up your
prosperity, that it endangers your safety,
that it can only bring you evil. If social
custom compels you to present wine at your
feasts, rebel against it, and make social cus-
tom bow in the interests of virtue and pur-
ity. The matter is very much in your own
hands. The women of the country, in what
is called poiite society, can do more to make
the nation temperate than all the legislators
and tumultuous reformers that are strug-
gling and blundering in their efforts to this
end.—[Dr. Holland in Scribner's for Janu-
ary.]


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Light Dumplings.—To every cup of cold water
needed to make as much dough as is desired, put-


one tablespoonful of cream-tartar and half a table
spoonful of soda, then stir in instantly enough
flour to make it a little thicker than biscuits; cut
out and boil them twenty minutes.
	Cheap Puddings.—Take a small quantity of
flour, mix in it a little baking powder and a little
suet chopped fine, flavor with a little fruit of any
kind, a little sugar to sweeten, and wet [-]p with
milk, or one egg added; boil in a cloth, or a tin for
one half hour.
	Polish.—A new compound for polishing and
cleaning metal is composed of 1 ounce carbonate
of ammonia dissolved in four oz. of water; mix
with 16 oz. of Paris white; moisten a sponge, dip
lightly in the powd[-]r, r[-]b lightly over the surface
of the metal, aft[-]rwards dust off the powder and
it will leave a brilliant lustre.
	Quick Pudding.—Pour a pint of boiling milk on
ten tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, let them
stand ten minutes, then add the yelks of four eggs
well beaten, six tablespoonfuls of sugar and two
of butter; season with lemon extract: stir well,
add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth,
pour the mixture into a buttered pudding dish, and
bake rapidly; make wine sauce, or eat with cream
and sugar.


[Column 1]
	DAVID JAMES,
		(Sucecssor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR 
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
	Address, David James, Box 3[--], Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are p[-]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE.
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

				Now Receiving at
	TEASDEL'S
	The first arrival of Spring Styles, Prints, Dress Goods,
Flowers, &c.
	[---] Ladies will please call, as good attention to low
prices, and full assortment on hand.
S. P. TEASDEL, Eagle House.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.
		Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and C[-]ps, Boots
			and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
				Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
	ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices
	the Old Fashioned House.

	HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality. and as cheap as the imported article.
	Call at the Store of the U. O. [--]th WARD, Four
	doors below Walker House, and examine our
		goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
		take pleasure in making to order, such
			brushes as we have not on hand.
						Wm. H. MILES, Supt.

[Column 2]
R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
		Manufacturers of 
ESSENCE OF JAMAICA GINGER, *
	TOILET SOAP. (Highly Perfamed;)
BATH SAND TABLETS,
		Indispensable to the Toilet and Bath Room
SCOURING SOAP,
		A great Saving of Labor to the Housekeeper.
SUPERIOR WRITING FLUID.
	One of the best flowing and durable Inks ever made.
	We Warrant our Articles Pure.
			JOSEPH L. BARFOOT, Chemical Director.
Addres		R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
	Lock Box, 1[-]64.		Salt Lake City.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Is now prepared for the Spring Trade, with all the
latest styles of Hats and Bonnets, and newest shades of
Silks and Ribbons. Flowers in endless variety.
	Ladies attending Conference should call and see her
fine assortment, which cannot be excelled in quality and
price.				17, East Temple street
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.

Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing,
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

				THE KIND OF 
BOOTS AND SHOES,
	EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
			priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
	At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
			D. M. McALLISTER. Supt.

			LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substantia.
		Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
				them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
	They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
			BUTTER AND EGGS,
						F. GOSS, Supt.

		EVERY DESCRIPTION
				OF
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
			AND
GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

			H. E. PHELPS,
				29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

	H. DINWOODEY,
		WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN 
FURNITURE!
	SPING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feather's, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
