VOL. 5		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1876.	NO. 11.


TWILIGHT REVERIES.

The shadows rest upon the mountains high,
	And blue and purple [-]aze enwraps them now,
And clouds, fantastical, pil'd 'gainst the sky,
	Wreathe quaint, odd garlands round the mountain's
		brow.

How gently twine shadows and clouds so gray,
	Changing to dullness things but late so bright,
Yet from the beauteous west the closing day
	Casts glim'ring glances of its fading light.

Oft have I watch'd the phantoms twilight made,
	Dissolving day and night in one another,
And in similitude my fancies play'd
	With light and shade, and blended them together.

The soft breeze gently whispers in the leaves,
	In tones so musical, and sweet, and low,
The echoes thrilling me—'til mem'ry weaves
	The reveries of the hour with "long ago."

The visions of the past fill all my soul,
	And through the vista of the years grown grim
I trace the outlines, as upon a scroll,
	Of forms and scenes familiar, though so dim,

I see the forests near my childhood's home
	And hear again the voices in the breeze,
And troop on troop the floods of mem'ries come,
	And I seem wand'ring 'mid those ancient trees

And all that then was mine, of youthful hope,
	And sweet affection, with her myriad powers:
All these, I gather in the shadow'd scope
	Of fancy, as I muse in twilight hours.

Sweet tones of love fall lightly on my ear,
	Again I feel the clasp of hands now cold,
And shudd'ring pause, 'twixt happiness and fear.
	As the vast panorama is unrolled.

'Tis pleasant thus to view the path we've trod,
	And mark where here and there our feet have stray'd,
Where sometime fell a heavy, chast'ning rod
	And soft the whisper, be not thou afraid!

Sooth'd all the wound—and cheered us ever on,
	And list'ning close the still small voice we hear,
Now plainer grown than when life first begun,
	Helping and guiding as the goal we near.

If on our way some shadows in the years,
	Darken'd our path, and hid the light from view,
Now looking back through mists of bitter tears;
	We know WHOSE HAND guided us safely through
											EMILE.
	SALT LAKE CITY, Oct. 30, 1876,


[Column 1]
		THE GRAIN QUESTION.

	During the past few weeks, I have heard
many questions and remarks, similar to the
following: Is it true that President Young
advises the sisters to buy and store up the
grain? But what can they be expected to
accomplish in a matter like this? It has
always been considered a woman's sphere
to cook the food; has it now become her
place to look after and provide it also? If
the women are to engage in such business,
what, indeed, will be left for the brethren
to do? How do we know but that, if we
undertake such measures we shall [--]come
speculators, as men are? Buy up large
quantities of grain at low figures, and as
the current fluctuates, turn round and sell
it at high prices, just as our brethren have
done.
	I am happy to find that in an editorial of
the last EXPONENT, nearly, if not quite all
these questions were carefully answered.
I hope, my sisters, you have all found the
same. If any of you have read that arti-
cle, entitled "SISTERS BE IN EARNEST!"
and have failed to drink its full meaning,
or to receive the spirit by which it was
given, please read it again. I did so, with

[Column 2]
profit; and I feel that I may also answer
some of my sisters' inquiries here, as one
deeply, vitally interested.
	Are our good, faithful brethren likely to
be left without plenty of employment, if
the sisters do all they can to assist in the
great Latter-day work? I think not, in as
much as temples are to be built, many of
them, in different parts of the land, the
gospel preached, and the plan of Salvation
carried on in its various ramifications. No
one need be troubled with the fear of hav-
ing nothing to do. There is abundance of
work for both men and women, in forward-
ing the progress of the Kingdom of God.
When we are told what to do, our whole
duty is to receive the message with meek-
ness and cheerfulness; and then go to work
"in earnest," as we have been told, and,
never wavering, honorably discharge the
obligation with which we are entrusted.
	The idea of women becoming speculators
is nothing to be dreaded. A woman has as
good a right to engage in honest speculation
as a man has; but there is no danger of the
Latter-day Saint sisters going into any
speculation with grain at this time, on ac-
count of the privilege opened to them, ex-
cept to buy up and store away all they can.
If any one doubts this assertion, let her
look abo[-]t her, behold the myriads of little
children in the land, and recollect that the
women who are now called upon to save 
grain, are their MOTHERS.
	O! my sisters, even now while I write, a
little chubby hand pulls my sleeve, two soft,
dark eyes look smilingly up into mine and
a pair of cherry lips ask me for some sugar.
Could I imagine those pure, baby-lips, which
with all a mother's tenderness I stoop to
kiss, asking for BREAD when I had none to
give, and yet sell one kernel of grain that
might be preserved at home! I tell you, I
have no fear of the sisters turning this
grain movement into a speculation. All we
want and all we need, is to be firmly united
in this as in every other effort; and with
the help of the Lord and His Spirit to guide
us, we will be wise as was Joseph in Egypt
and as successful. God grant that not one
honest heart may falter; and all the honor
and glory be ascribed to him forever.
							MABEL.


[Column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS.

	IN THE country where the Eastern war is
carrying on its dreadful devastation, there
are said to be many thousands of men, wo-
men and children almost naked and liter-
ally starving.
	MRS. S. Westman of Indianapolis, a lady
lecturer, has drawn forth the highest enco-
miums of praise for her eloquent and logi-
cal method of dealing with the subject of
Finance.
	THE INTRODUCTION of women clerks
into the goods offices of the London and
Northwestern Railway at Birmingham, has
proved so successful that the Directors have
been induced to try the experiment in oth-
er large centers of traffic. So say some of
our exchanges.
	MRS. LUCRETIA Mott, the venerable
quakeress and staunch supporter and beloved

[Column 2]
advocate for woman in her most true and
use[--]l sphere, was upon the platform at the
recent Woman's Congress held in Philadel-
phia, and in her speech before the house,
traced the development of woman's educa-
tion for the last thirty years.
	"MUSIC, AND Woman as a Musician,"
one of the papers read at the Woman's Con-
gress, is certainly an article of real merit.
It is decidedly the best article of the kind
we have ever had the pleasure of perusing,
and contains so many ideas of superior ex-
cellence that we feel would be appreciated
that we intend publishing a part of it in
our next number.
	IN THE Woman's Journal, Oct. 7th, there is a
short article headed "Put Yourself In Her
Place." This article refers to Lucy Stone
at Faneuil Hall, speaking of the absurdity
of refusing Suffrage to George Elliot, one of
the most popular English woman authors
at the present age. The Boston Sunday
Herald makes its comments upon this, and
considers that for such a great woman and
writer, it would be a waste of time. The
writer in the Journal carries the argument
further and asks "What should we think
of this logic?" by substantiating the name
of George Elliot for the name of William
Cullen Bryant, James Russell Lowell or of
some other literary man, equally gifted
and popular. "Would discussing politics
be a waste of time for them?"	"NOTES FROM the Lecture Field," pub-
lished in the "Woman's Journal" of Oct 21,
in alluding to the many reiterations of the
assertions "Woman Suffrage is unpopular;"
"Public opinion is against it;" Women are
its most bitter opponents;" advances some
excellent ideas. The writer, Miss Matilda
Hindman, a very staunch supporter of Wo-
man Suffrage and an eminent lecturer, says
"these things are so often repeated that
even many friends of the cause believe
them true;" whereas Miss Hindman asserts
"it is not unpopular among the most intelli-
gent classes." The press she says has gen-
erally been unfavorable, and consequently
"the cause has suffered from adverse state-
ments." Miss Hindman speaks of having
traveled thousands of miles through some
of the States, holding meetings by hun-
dreds, conversing with the leading men and
women in these various localities, and she
believes she has had ample opportunity to
judge the sentiments of the people on this
subject. She adds "men who stand the
highest intellectually, morally and socially
in their own States are the best friends of
Woman Suffrage."


MONEY is not all one has to give. The
poorest in purse may bestow real sympathy
and comfort, may minister to the sorrowing
and rejoice with the joyful, weep with
those that weep and add largely to the sum
of human happiness.
	THE every-day cares and duties which
men call drudgery, are the weights and
counterpoises of the clock of time, giving
its pendulum a true vibration, and its
hands a regular motion, and when they
cease to hang upon the wheels, the pendu-
lum no longer swings, the hands no longer
move, the clock stands still.—Longfellow.


82		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Retrenchment Association was held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Satur-
day, Oct. 14. President Mrs: M. I. Horne
was present and after the reading of min-
utes from different wards addressed the
meeting on the various subjects now under
consideration. She exhorted the sisters to
encourage all home institutions, and above
all to live their religion in an acceptable
manner; she spoke of the sorrow mani-
fested by the people now that they could no
longer have the privilege of officiating for
their dead, and advised all those present to
beware of procrastination lest the Bride-
groom should come and find them unpre-
pared. Mrs. E. S. Barney gave some ac-
count of the recent visit she had made to
some of the settlements, and the success
which had attended their efforts. Mrs. B.
W. Smith, Mrs. P. Woodruff, and Mrs.
Margaret P. Young all spoke [-]pon the prin-
ciples of the Gospel and the testimony of
the Holy Spirit. The meeting was an in-
teresting one and the Spirit of the gospel
seemed to abound in the hearts of the sis-
ters.

	SELINA, SEVIER COUNTY, Oct 7th, 1876,
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The following is is a brief report of our
societies. The sisters are alive to their du-
ties and are trying to serve God in a right
and acceptable manner. Our Relief So-
ciety was organized Dec. 25, 1873, and Sis-
ter Margaret Rasmasen was chooson for our
president, but being called to move away,
Sister Margaret Anderson was chosen to fill
her place. We find her a good, kind presi-
dent and one who is trying to live her re-
ligion and help the sisters, and especially
the poor in all their needs for comfort or as-
sistance of any sort. A number of the
Saints here have been baptized for the re-
newal of their covenants, enjoying the
Spirit of the Lord, and He has blessed them
with an abundance of harvest this season.
The brethren have built a store-house to
store away the grain, and are very busy.
We meet every Fast day and every second
Thursday and converse upon the principles
of our religion. The teachers visit the dif-
ferent wards once a month and find out the
candition of the saints and where there
are any sick or poor that are in need we
give comfort and attend to their wants im-
mediately. We also have a Young Ladies
Society which was organized last Fall with
the following officers. Mrs. Mary Ann
Steele, President; Mrs. Hannah J. Spencer,
and Mrs. Sarah Casto, Counselors, Miss
Catharine Martin, Secretary and Mrs.
Martha Fenn, Treasurer. There are but
very few young ladies in our small place,
but there is a large num[-]er of small girls
from nine to twelve years of age, who love
to attend meeting, and we hope at some
future day to have a large and intelligent
Society.
	Wishing you success, I remain your Sis-
ter in the Gospel.
				HANNAH J. SPENCER

			MILL CREEK, Oct. 17, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society meetings are held
every second Thursday in each month.
Last month we had the pleasure of a visit
from some of the sisters from the city.
Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. Zina D, Young,
Mrs. E. Davis, Mrs. P. Staines, and Mrs. E.
Howard.

[Column 2]
	Miss E. R. Snow spoke to us about home
industry, and of making substantial cloth-
ing such as we can manufacture ourselves;
she also spoke of the necessity of meeting
together often.
	Mrs. Zina Young spoke upon seri-culture,
showing how very easy we could raise the
materials, and that it would be for our good.
We had a good meeting and if we do not
do right it is not for the want of instruc-
tions.
	I will thank my sisters for their kindly
visit and good counsel, and may God bless
them in their labor.
	We are doing as well as we can in our
scattered condition. We have a good room
well carpeted and furnished. We take care
of the sick, and help the needy. The
Young Ladies Retrenchment Association
is doing well under the presidency of Mrs.
Isabella Carlisle. They take the EXPONENT
and read selections from it in their meet-
ings.
	With best wishes for the advancement of
every good work and home manufacture,
we remain the co-workers of those who la-
bor for the advancement of the Kingdom of
God,
			MRS. MARY MCALLISTER,
							Pres't.
		MRS. ELIZABETH CARLISLE,
							Sec'y.

	VIRGIN CITY, KANE CO., UTAH,
					October 16th, 1876.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	When we last wrote to you, in May, our
Retrenchment Association numbered thirty-
two; since that time it has increased to for-
ty members, and more are joining almost
every meeting. We hold our meetings
once in two weeks; we employ our time in
speaking, reading from the EXPONENT and
other good publications, and in working at
different kinds of work. On Friday, Oct.
6th, the Association met at the school house
for the purpose of quilting a quilt, the first
that had been completed in the Association;
the young ladies worked very diligently
till 12 o'clock, when all brought in their
picnic, and a table was set the length of the
hall, and at one p. m. about forty (including
a few of our mothers who had been invited
in) were seated at a very good dinner.. Af-
ter dinner the tables were removed, and
the quilt finished. Afterwards the Asso-
ciation held a meeting, to which the Young
Men's Association had been invited, and the
girls had been requested to invite their
mothers. After singing and prayer, Sisters
Maria Spendlove and Alice Isom delivered
lectures, which were listened to with great
interest, and which were truly encouraging
and edifying to the young. At six p. m. all
met at the hall to enjoy themselves in the
recreation of a dance, which closed at ten,
when all expressed themselves well pleased
with the evening entertainment. A good
spirit prevailed throughout the entire day.
	Hoping for the success of your valuable
paper, we remain as ever your sisters
	LUCINDA STRATTON,	}	Secretaries.
	ELEANOR JEPSON,	}


NATIONAL DEBTS:—France has a nation-
al debt of £900,000,000; Great Britain a
debt of £780,000,000. The United States,
£470,000,000; Italy, £390,000000; Spain,
£375,000,000; Austria, £350,000,000. The 
debt of Russia amounts to £340,000,000.
The German Empire £200,000,000; Tur-
key, £135,000,000; India, £130,000,000; 
Brazil £82,000,000 Holland £80,000,000.


THE GREAT JAPANESE "ALTAR
			OF DAILBUTZ."

	Dailbutz, meaning the "Great Buddha,"
a bronze idol is situated in the midst of a
plain, once the site of a large city, now only
surrounded by a thin grove of trees which
have outlived the more perishable temples
and shrines once included in these sacred
grounds, and of the city only a straggling
village remains, it is called Kamakura. Dail-
butz, meaning the "Great Buddha," is about
seventy feet in height, entirely of bronze,
and represents the god in his usual state of
profound repose, sitting cross-legged, the
eyes closed, and hands clasped, with thumb-
nails meeting. It rests upon a stone found-
ation, and in front of it, upon a stone altar,
are two large bronze vases, each containing
blossoms and leaves of the lotus, a sacred
plant of the Buddhists, perfectly carved in
bronze, and in front of both is the inevita-
ble cash-box. Climbing up the folds of the
god's garment, which form safe footholds
for some distance, we sat down on his im-
mense thumbs, and some idea may be
formed of the size of this statue by the
fact that three grown persons can sit com-
fortably on one thumb, between its end and
the second joint. This majestic idol, perfect
in its proportions, and sublime in its ex-
pression of an eternity of repose, was
placed in its present position many
centuries ago—so many that the exact
date of its erection is unknown. Two
wire-guarded windows are cut in the
back near the shoulders, and a door cut on
one side admits visitors. Inside is a good-
sized room, with images of various saints
on two rough altars, and incense burning
before them. Cut in the woodwork of the
altars, and written in Japanese ink, any-
where and everywhere about this interior
of the statue are innumerable names and
addresses of visitors.


Mothers have many serious cares: This
assertion is undeniable; the anxiety in-
volved in maternity is well understood by
all who have experienced its pains and an-
guish. The feebleness of the new born in-
fant, unable to express its wants or its pains,
continually beset by dangers to its frail life
from the very first, constantly appeal to the
mother's nature, when her own strength is
just slowly returning. The restless nights,
the attacks of sickness now and then, the
anxious watching and waiting, all tell upon
the mother. And when the baby can ex-
press its wants and its feelings how much
waywardness to be controlled and checked,
what ill tendencies to be subdued. And it
is seldom for one alone these energies and
sympathies are called into action, there is
usually a group, a little community, an em-
bryo kingdom, over which the mother has
sway, keeping, as far as possible, each in its
place, and giving to each the right which
is due. The variety of temperament is o[-]e
item which cannot be disregarded in the
government of the mother: due allowance
is necessary in order to guide and restrain
without repressing, and thus perhaps blunt-
ing some strong attribute which, carefully
guided, would constitute strength of char-
acter. Thus is the sphere of womanhood
equivalent to that of a queen, and she
should exercise her best and highest facul-
ties to sway such a sceptre as shall make
her a "queen without being a despot."


IN this simple fact that we cannot accu-
rately forsee the future, lies a refuge from
despair.—Lewes.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		83


THE GOLDEN SIDE.

There is many a rest on the road of life,
	If we only would stop to take it;
And many a tone from the better land,
	If the querulous heart would wake it.
To the sunny soul that is full of hope.
	And whose beautiful trust ne'er faileth,
The grass is green and the flowers are bright,
	Though the wintry storm prevaileth.

Better to hope, though the clouds hang low,
	And to keep the eyes still lifted;
For the sweet blue sky will soon peep through,
	When the ominous clouds are rifted.
There was never a night without a day,
	Nor an evening without a morning;
And the darkest hour, the proverb goes,
	Is an hour before the dawning.

There is many a gem in the path of life,
	Which we pass in our idle pleasure,
That is richer far than the jeweled crown,
	Or the miser's hoarded treasure;
It may be the love of a little child,
	Or a mother's prayer to Heaven,
Or only a beggar's grateful thanks,
	For a cup of water given.

Better to weave in the web of life
	A bright and golden filling,
And to do God's will with a ready heart,
	And hands that are swift and willing,
Than to snap the delicate silver threads
	Of our curious lives asunder,
And then Heav'n blame for the tangled ends,
	And sit to grieve and wonder.
									—Ex.


For the EXPONENT.
			SPEECH.

	This is a theme we should do well to
study, for when we consider the millions of
words we utter that are vain and frivolous,
sometimes even wicked, it makes us trem-
ble when we remember that the Lord says,
"out of our mouth shall we be judged;" and
how large a number of this people have
covenanted in HOLY PLACES, not to use
vain, light or wicked language; words of
good sense ought ever to flow from the lips
of the saints. Not that we should always
speak in a serious or sombre manner, for
the best instruction may be conveyed in a
cheerful, easy and often mirthful conversa-
tion. For the young, I would recommend
this motto, "Be merry and wise." These
little words contain an epitome of wisdom.
	Speech, is one of the greatest gifts to
man and woman; it is the mark of Divin-
ity; no other creature has the gift of a audi-
ble speech. All creation speaks, but it is
with a silent eloquence; true they have
their tones, like a musical instrument,
when the chords are struck sound most beau-
tiful and harmonious, as the feathered
tribe, some deep and sonorous, as the lion,
the blood-hound, and cattle of inferior
kind, and in a less pleasing degree: but all
natural sounds are harmonious, and Scrip-
ture says, "There are many voices and
none are without signification." We can
fancy trees and flowers have a voice, but it
is the language of a book; and on their
leaves are the words,—God! Heaven! And
by their sweet perfume they make them-
selves tangible to us; who that has walked
down the rich and gay parterre, does not
thrill with gratitude to Our Father in heav-
en for the beautiful and delicious things
He has prepared and organized for His
children upon earth. The taste, the smell,
the eye, the ear is fed "with heaven's pe-
culiar manna." Yes! The spirit of our God
fills the atmosphere in such a spot, and the
mind is often soothed and comforted by the
feeling that heaven is around us; and we
know that these keep a celestial law unbro-
ken. But to turn more particularly to
speech as the grand medium of intelligence
amid the human family. There are mo-
ments when we crave silence in ourselves
and others and realize that solitude is best,
but in a general way, speech is the life of
society, and a delightful means of convey-
ing happiness and instruction. A silent
person has no charm for me, and I am sus-
picious of them, as I have often discovered
that such an one is taking items of the
words and actions of others, and hereafter
can freely criticize, perhaps satirize the
speakers of the company. The best feel-
ing is soon produced in a party where all
contribute, and I think there is a propriety
and good sense in the following lines which
a friend wrote on the fly-leaf of my album:
	"You may look in this album but learn [-]re you look
	That all are requested to add to the book.
	You may quiz as you please, but the penalty is,
	That you also leave something for others to quiz."
	It is astonishing how mind acts upon
mind, and spirit upon spirit, and I have
seen some that the moment they enter an
assembly, and begin to speak, the whole
company seem to arise to a higher degree
of intelligence and happiness.
	By the aid of speech we have the power
to convey instruction, amusement, comfort,
and consolation, and do a world of good;
if we pervert this God-like gift we can ex-
cite anger, disgust, revenge, sorrow, de-
spair and misery. When we meet in social
parties, it should be the duty of every one
to consider for a moment WHY we meet,
and what good will arise from the meeting,
and determine that we will try and say
something that will benefit some one. All
have talents, all possess knowledge on some
points that perhaps others have not acquir-
ed. Foolish jesti[-]g and frivolous talking is
not becoming to any woman or young girl
in company.
	We should be in our best spirits, our
brightest intellects, and the vehicle of these
should call forth our best manners; our cares
should be left out of the circle always. The
social party is for reunion, recreation, and a
a reciprocation of thoughts and sentiments,
and an interchange of talents, abilities and
the sweet amenities of life, and we retire
from such a circle refreshed and invigora-
ted in body and mind.
	When the Head of a House is the Con-
stellation of that Orbit we find order and
intelligence throughout, and all are made
happy for the time being, the cue being
naturally given and taken from such a
source, and spreads like a subtile perfume
throughout the assembly, and it is no hack-
neyed phrase or unmeaning assertion
when we say, yes, from our heart, it is
good for us to be here. Dryden says:
"Speech is the moving of the Soul, it
spreads its beauteous images abroad which
else lie furled in the clouded mind."
					HANNAH T. KING.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	Ex-Queens Christina and Isabella are
"lobbying" for the payment of heavy claims
on the national treasury.—Ex.
	A WORK of the late Madame George
Sands entitled "Dialogues Philosophiques"
is about to be published shortly, as a review
by "M. Renan."
	MISS Emily Faithful, in speaking of wo-
men asking men for work, remarks, that
"if they do they will get what they have
always got—the [-]ind men do not want to
do themselves." Miss Faithful is one of
the most earnest and sincere advocates of
Woman's Rights, and is undeniably practi-
cal in all her ideas of the woman question.
	MISS Alcott, the very famous writer for


little folks, has just published a new volume
"Silver Pitchers," and "Independence," a
Centennial love story. The volume con-
tains nine short stories, and is calling forth
much comment and considerable criticism
from the literary world. "Silver Pitcher" is
a temperance tale and contains a moral.
Miss Alcott's writings possess the intrinsic
merit of imparting a contagious happiness.
And in this respect are valuable for they
contain no objectionable arguments or doc-
trine. She looks upon life as wholesomely
as a child, and leaves no morbid impression
upon the youthful mind.
	GEORGE Eliott's last new story, which
has just been concluded in Harper's Month-
ly, "Daniel Deronda," is said to have been
the event of the month in literary circles.
No story for years has called forth as much
discussion and attention among educated
and cultivated people. The book has just
been issued in a complete volume. The
public are likely to know something more
of this celebrated author from a new vol-
ume just published by Messrs E. Moxon &
Co. It contains the biography and autobi-
ography of Elizabeth Evans, the alleged
original of Dinah Morris in "Adam Bede."
The book is entitled "George Eliott in Der-
byshire. It has upon the title page the
names of Guy Roslyn and George Bennett
Smith, and contains a letter from George
Elliot concerning her characters in "Adam
Bede."


SPLINTERS

		 		GENERAL.
	Samuel C. Lewis, who manufactured the
first bar of iron in the United States, visit-
ed the Centennial Exhibition......Mr. Pay-
son, the Government astronomer of Madras,
has his children christened with the names
of the chief celestial bodies he discovers
......Mr. and Mrs. Fleetwood of Texas, held
a convention and nominated Mr. Fleetwood
for President and Mrs. Fleetwood for Vice-
President......The Camille Urso troupe are
expected to perform in San Francisco during
November......The admissions to the Cen-
tennial Exposition keep up the usual ratio
......The Greek Congress will discuss the
Eastern question when the king gets home.

				PERSONAL.
	Edwin Adams is said to be dying in Aus-
tralia.........Miss Waldman, so successful as
Aida, is about to quit the lyric stage and
marry an Italian Count......Mr. Bayard Tay-
lor is the New York correspondent of the
"Cincinnatti Commercial"......The King of
Belgium is about to establish a penal colony
and institution in South Africa.........Abdul
Hamid II is spoken of as an enthusiastic
Mahometan, but of his [---] sympathies
people seem to be in ignorance......Henry
Jerome Bertini, the French pianist and com-
poser, is dead......Barry Sullivan is playing
Richard III at the Drury Lane Theatre,
London.


GRACE and glory are inseparably joined—
he that gets the one may be certain of the
other.
	THE best estimate of the population of
the American nation at the beginning of
its first century was 2,750,000. It has
now 44,675,000. The area of county has been
extended from 800,000, to 603,844 square
miles. Manufactures have advanced in val-
ue from 20,000,000, to 4,200,000,000. There
are only three nations which surpass the
United States in extent of surface; the
British, Chinese and Russian Empires.


84		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,	} Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.		}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months;
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $3.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, NOV. 1, 1876.


[Column 1]
		BE WISE AND HEARKEN TO
				COUNSEL.

	To the women of this Territory we make this
appeal in all sincerity, and after most serious
thought, on storing away grain while it is with-
in their reach. We wish if it were possible,
the subject might be agitated in public and
private until every mother and every sister
should feel the necessity of immediate action.
	Is it not presumptiom in the Latter-day
Saints to say they believe in the inspiration of
the work of the last days now commenced,
and that this people receive divine revelation
for guidance, and then pay no attention what-
ever to the instruction given through the ser-
vants of God who hold the keys of power upon
the earth?
	Why are the people so slow in acting, so heed-
less of those things which are the most essen-
tial? Why do they slumber and sleep when they
are continually invoked to arise and shake off
their lethargy and prepare themselves for the
great and eventful future? And will they not
be left to mourn and lament if they neglect
the things they have been told to do?
	A great and wise prophet in ancient times
said, "Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt-
offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice
of the Lord? Behold to obey is better than
sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams."
This mighty truth is as much a truth to-day as
when it was first uttered.
	What is there that will so effectually appeal
to human nature as want—want of bread?
Surely, if there is a spark of true fire in the
hearts of the women of this Territory, after
the request President Young has made of them
reposing such confidence in their ability and
exertions, they will arouse all their dormant
energies to earnest, decisive and immediate ac-
tion. Should the time come (and it will) when
there will be a scarcity of bread, what will wo-
men care then for a little sarcasm? It seems
too trivial to call forth the slightest notice in
comparison with the momentous subject in
contemplation. It would seem that this peo-
ple's privations in times past would have so
thoroughly taught them the necessity of econ-
omy and of wisdom in obeying counsel, that
it would only be necessary to ask them to do a
thing which is so palpable, and they would un-
derstand it. The hundredth part of the suf-
fering among, even this small remnant of peo-
ple, here in these valleys in the times of
scarcity, has never yet been told; it is some-
thing too deep for empty words; then only to
picture a scarcity all over the land as has been
predicted, and the scene is too horrible to
bear looking upon. Let every mother be awak-
ened to a realization of the necessity of heark-

[Column 2]
ening before the time is past. Wh[--] i[-] [---]
that can feel these things as deeply as a moth-
er can; think what it would be to hear your 
little one cry for bread, and worst of all to know
you had trifled away the day of grace given
you, had thought lightly, or not at all upon the
subject. That men, as a class, are very tena-
cious of their rights and privileges, is "most
true;" but let them carefully weigh this mat-
ter and they will assuredly grant to woman
the right of self-preservation, for herself and
her posterity. It is argued by men that an-
cient history proves woman's inferiority and
servile state, in the days when God had His
prophets upon the earth; but do not the Scrip-
tures certify woman to have been not only
queen and prophetess, but Judge in Israel, as
witness Deborah in the fourth chapter of Judg-
es. Is there then anything so inconsistent in
women building storehouses and filling them
with grain?
	It has been remarked by some that Presi-
dent Young thought that by doing this, the
wives and daughters of this people would cease
to ask their fathers and husbands to dispose of
their grain for finery, or unnecessary articles
for personal or household ornament. But in
our opinion, men themselves in a general way,
dispose of as much means for tobacco; and such
products as tend to degeneration and degrada-
tion, as women do for vanity.
	Of what use would all the finest fabrics ever
woven be, or jewels and diamonds if there was
a lack of bread? How little in comparison
would these things seem, how insignificant
and worthless. We distinctly remember (for
these things are not easily forgotten) that in
our exit from Nauvoo, when we were about to
launch forth into an uncultivated wilderness,
the thoughts of the people were concentrated
upon food for subsistence, and they were glad
to dispose of such things as they could possi-
bly spare; carpets, shawls, silk dresses, gold
watches, chains, rings, and many other valua-
ble things were sent down into Missouri to ex-
change for wheat, corn meal, or any of the
staple products which sustain life, as well as
for oxen and cows with which to pursue the
journey.
	To those who have experienced the priva-
tions which the saints have passed through at
different periods since the organization of this
church, the words of President Young must
carry a double force, for they can not only see
the future in prospect but the past in retro-
spect.
	The Lord has brought this people from among
their kindred and friends, and has made this
desolate land a fruitful and desirable one, and
plentiful harvests have rewarded the husband-
man for his toil. Have they been prompt in
the fulfillment of those laws and principles
which have been in existence ever since time
began, whenever the Lord had a church upon
the earth? The law of tithes and offerings. If
women have been remiss in the past, if they
have been dilatory in doing the "Master's
work" slow in hearkening to counsel, and have
sought after vain and foolish things, let them
seek to make what reparation they can while
there is opportunity. This subject is not the
embodiment of an idle tale or romance, but a
stern and positive reality which must be met
and acted upon. God grant our sisters wis-
dom to carry out President Young's counsel,
and we trust that ere another issue of the EX-
PONENT we may have reports from different lo-
calities, representing the movements which
will, ere then have been made. Surely the
Lord will bless His daughters and give them
strength and fortitude in such a noble enter-
prise. [handwritten] E. B. Wells


A WORD ABOUT WOMEN.

	One can scarcely take up a book, magazine,
or newspaper nowadays without being aware
that women are "creating a sensation," they
are certainly getting themselves talked about;
are men beginning to fear and tremble, (I fear
some are) and is there "a woman at the bottom
of the mischief?" That is a familiar saying of
theirs. We are told that "in the last days men's
hearts would fail them," &c., but we had no
idea it would be attributable to women, yet it
is even so from the pulpit down; this is idol-
breaking by women, and though men speak of
her as silly, vain, and frivolous; they will per-
haps find ere long that woman is terribly in
earnest; that she is no longer willing to be
trammelled by narrow conventionalities, but
to step forward on a broader platform, undaunt-
ed by the sarcasm or even foul aspersions cast
upon her by those who have not the inspira-
tion of a potent power urging them to a noble
purpose. She can endure all the calumny and
reproach of those who are ready to attribute
to her the motives of revenge, spite or disap-
pointed love, knowing that the end will more
than justify the means, and be ample atone-
ment for any personal sacrifice.

	"Through slander—meanest spawn from hell—
	And woman's slander is the worst—
	And you whom once I loved so well,
	Through you my life has been accurst."

	I will not agree that woman's slander is the
worst, Tennyson to the contrary, notwithstand-
ing, and I venture to dispute the long estab-
lished dogma, of total depravity in women;
tradition has handed it down from the days of
Adam and Eve. I take the ground that slan-
der has no sex; the "poison of asps" is no more
under the lips of woman than of man, and the
unruly member that stirs up a great fire belongs
no more to one than to the other; I am not one
who thinks men and women are made of differ-
ent flesh and blood, not even that men are made
of dust and women are angels, but that wo-
men from their very infancy are guarded from
all outward contamination, so that the very
elements of the deadliest slanders are wanting.
	Woman untaught, in a vast majority, for
countless centuries in all arts save such as per-
tain to domestic life or "the wiles that charm,"
at best subordinate or inferior, to come and go
as she was bid, has been termed silly, vain,
weak and cowardly, but give her justice and
she is no coward, give her cause and she will
face fearful odds, as is abundantly proved at
the present time in her putting forward a claim
for the right of the ballot; we have as much to
gain or lose by good laws, or bad laws as men;
we should be well versed in law and under-
stand all that pertains to marriage, to divorce,
and to property; we have as much to risk by
law as men. Does it detract from their dignity
because women prove themselves capacitated
for the same positions as men, is this any usurp-
ation of power or of rights? If they are really
superior to us let them move on, "there is room
higher up." They have not reached the pin-
nacle of greatness yet, to which it is possible
to attain, let them look to it that they advance
if they would not have women too close up-
on their track, for there is advancement among
women; thought is growing, a[-]d m[--] should
turn their attention and bend their energies
to things of more weighty consideration than
woman's faults and a jealousy of precedence,
should look with pride instead of fear upon wo-
men who are seeking to elevate, inspire and
ennoble the sex, for they are the molders of
men, it is conceded; then as women advance,
so does it more surely perfect the future race of
men. Woman bears the impress of the seal of
immortality. 						EMILE.
		[handwritten] E. B. Wells


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		85


NOTICE.

	The Woman's Commission House, recently establish-
ed under the auspices of the Relief Society Woman's
Mercantile Association, is now transacting business on
commission at the Old Constitution Buildings, opposite
Z. C. M. I. Their stock consists entirely of home-
manufactures. They are well supplied with plaid, lin-
seys and waterproofs for winter dresses, wraps etc; and
shawls large and small, stockings and socks of all sizes
knit with machine or by hand, baby's socks, crochet
cuffs or wristers large and small. A dressmaker is
there, ready to make up material to order. There is a
good supply of men's and boys wear, of all the differ-
ent varieties manufactured here; an excellent tailor to
do all kinds of work in that line. There is also a full
stock of hats, straw and felt, and a miliner to attend to
that part of the work. They have also various other
articles to wear and use. All the standard church
books. Homemade soap, Jamaica ginger, ink, black-
ing and vinegar: also butter, cheese, and eggs. Among
the things noticeable are the lace and silk productions,
some of which are exquisite. The patronage of the
people is solicited for this institution, that Utah may
sustain by united effort the industry which is the pros-
pective wealth of her people. The women of this Ter-
ritory are making this almost unprecedented movement
to concentrate their exertions in one grand enterprise to
become self-sustaining, that they may free themselves
as a people, as soon as possible, from the shackles of 
Babylon!


[Column 1]
				HOME AFFAIRS.

	SEVERAL OF the missionaries appointed at the last
Semi-Annual Conference, started to-day on their jour-
ney. Some had left previous and others will start on
the sixth!
	THE DISTRICT Court seems unable to dispose of
some of the cases on hand, as there are so many crooks
and turns taken that these cases are likely to drag on,
until they shall be ruled out of Court, or assume the
character of cases in chancery.
	THE UTAH Musical Times, No. 8, now issued con-
tains many excellent things. The editorial "Singing in
Schools" deserves to be widely read, and all interested
in the advancement of the young are sure to read it
with interest. The hints given on the subject are adapt-
ed to the situation of the people. The music is always
of a high order and tends to refine the taste. We hope
this journal will be well sustained. It has our best
wishes, especially as we believe it to be one step towards
the progression of Utah in musical art.
	THE MUSICAL and dramatic entertainment tendered
to Mr. O. F. Whitney, and given in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, Wednesday evening Oct. 25th,
was very well attended. The whole performance was
creditable, and there were several parts which were exe-
cuted in such a tasteful and artistic manner that they
deserve notice made of t[-]em. These amateurs ought to
be congratulated for their efforts to please their friends
and especially for lending their efforts in a good cause.
Mr. O. F. Whitney tenders his sincere thanks to Prof.
Thomas, the Salt Lake Orchestra, the Union Glee Club,
also the young ladies and gentlemen who so kindly took
part in the performance.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Through your paper I wish to announce to
the sisters who in days past have been associa-
ted with Sister Lovina Walker, the sad news of
her death which occurred on the 8th of Oct.
at half-past one, p. m., soon after having giv-
en birth to a fine son.

[Column 2]
	She fell asleep without a struggle, and per-
fectly conscious that her departure was near:
she seemed as calm as a summer evening, man-
ifesting neither anxiety nor regret. She has
left a husband and eleven children, with whom
we deeply and sincerely mourn the loss of a
kind and affectionate wife, and a fond and de-
voted mother. But for her there is no cause for
grief, for she had "fought the good fight and
kept the faith." Her work was done and she
has gone to her parents and friends.
	Here are very many who have known sister
Lovina from the days of her girlhood when
her kind and loving father, our beloved mar-
tyred prophet, brother Hyrum Smith, was
with us. She is his eldest child. It has been
my happy lot, which I consider no ordinary
privilege to spend many interesting and profit-
able seasons in listening to her descriptions of
scenes and circumstances connected with her
father's life.
	I first became acquainted with Sister Walker
in May, 1859; I with my two little children
and an elderly sister who was living with me,
had come from Philadelphia with the Emigra-
tion on my way to the Valley. I had expend-
ed my last means and had no provisions left—
we arrived in Florence at 9 o'clock p. m., it
was dark and raining, the brethren helped us
from the wagons into a vacant house and we
went to rest as soon as possible.
	Early next morning we we e awakened by
some one knocking at the door, the sister with
me opened it, there stood a little girl with a
cup of milk in her hand, she asked if "there
was a little woman there with two little child-
ren," the sister told her "yes" and asked her to
come in, she did so and when she saw me said,
"If you please, my ma wants to see you,
she has sent this milk to your little girls." I
asked her ma's name, thinking it was some one
I knew, but when she told me I knew no one
by that name—I accordingly went to her
mother's house; she met me at the door with
both hands stretched towards me in welcome.
"Good morning Sister Elizabeth," said she. I
told her she had the advantage of me as I did
not remember ever seeing her before. She said
"No and I never saw you before; I am Hyrum
Smith's daughter, my father came to me three
times last night and told me that you were a
child of God, that you was without money,
provisions or friends and that I must help you.
The first time he came to me, I awoke my hus-
band and told him, not liking to be disturbed,
he told me I was dreaming, that it was only
fancy. My father came to me again and told
me your name, he also told me to send my lit-
tle girl with some milk and prove to my hus-
band that it was not fancy." She requested
me to go for my children and the sister that
was with me to come into breakfast, and after-
wards, I learned that the last food she had in
the house was on the table that morning; after
breakfast she went to Bro. Johnson, told him
the circumstance and asked him to help her
provide for me while I was in Florence, which
he did directly, as I have since learned. When
I left Florence I did not see her again for thir-
teen years; then Bro. Hyrum came to me in a
dream and told me to go to Farmington and
help Lovina as she was sick; being unable to
go I sent my daughter to see her, who wrote
me to come directly as my dream was too
true.
	From that time to this we have not been
separated long, and I thank God our Father,
for the friendship that existed between us, and
hope to live the rest of my life so that when I
go hence there will be one happy greeting, one
dear friend ready to welcome me where sorrow
will be known no more.

[Column 3]
	And now, sisters let us not forget the depart-
ed one, but let us watch over her little mother-
less children and extend to them a loving,
helping hand to cheer them through the rough
journey of life, for our Saviour said, "Inas-
much as ye have done it unto one of these lit-
tle ones ye do it unto me."
					ELIZABETH DAVIS.
	17th Ward, S. L. City.


For the EXPONENT.
			SENSITIVE PEOPLE.

	By this, I mean those who are sensitive to
an extreme. All those who can lay claim to
this unenviable distinction are certainly ob-
jects of pity; for of all the throng that
moves in society, there are none who have
so much cause for misery. Hold, my criti-
cal friend, ere you arch your brow in scorn.
I do not mean that sensitive people have
more real trouble to bear than others, but I do
mean that their cause for trouble is greater,
yes, tenfold, because it is imaginary, and
imagination calls forth more misery, wretch-
edness and despair than all real troubles
that ever existed.
	A sensitive nature—some claim that it is
a mark of superiority—Hannah More has
said
	"Where glow exalted sense and taste refined,
	There keener anguish rankles in the mind,
	There feeling is diffused through every part,
	Thrills in each nerve and lives in all the heart."

	This may be so, but who is anxious for
the distinction? Who, for the sake of be-
ing thought a little more refined, would
sacrifice his peace of mind by the change,
if he could have it at will?
	The aim of life is happiness, but this class
of sensitive people destroy not only their
own share, but detract seriously from that
of others who surround them. A hasty
word, a careless expression of half digested
thought, or even a harmless witticism is
sufficient to cast them into the depths of
gloom and despondency.
	Happy are they who can live above such
trifles—who can move on just as gay and
light-hearted as ever whether the sun shines
or not. Who heed not the looks of the en-
vious, the tongues of the slanderous, and
the frowns of the haughty and proud. Who
can take the world as they find it and live
through it without repining—this is the
class to be admired. You sensitive, melan-
choly people do not think that you are bet-
ter than your fellows, because your feelings
are more easily hurt. You are in error. It
is a species of madness which afflicts you
and which, if you encourage, will be the
bane of your lives.
	Shake it off! Be good-natured and cheer-
ful, fight your natures and win happiness
as the reward.
							STOIC.


THE thing which an active mind most
needs is a purpose and direction worthy of
its activity.
	TEAR from a woman's life all else that
she holds dear and leave her love, and she
is rich; load her with jewels, clothe her in
costly stuff, let slaves wait upon her and
courtiers bow, and she is but a pauper, if no
one loves her.
	POETS know, and statesmen ought to
know, it is by sentiment when well direct-
ed—as by sorrow when well used—great na-
tions live. When sentiment dies out and
mere prosaic calculations of loss and profit
take its place, then comes a Byzantine
epoch, a Chinese epoch, decrepitude and
slow decay.—Kingsley.


86		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.

		SALT LAKE CITY, Oct. 13, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I will tell you of a short chapter from
the lives of two of the women of Utah.
	Early Monday morning 18th of Sept. last,
Mrs. E. Howard and your correspondent
met at the Salt Lake depot, with satchels in
hand and preparation for journeying. In
the course of a couple of hours we reached
Ogden, where amid a great many people,
I thought certainly we had arrived at the
Metrapolis of the West. As we past the
hotels, we saw waiters hurrying about pre-
paring meals in such haste, as though ac-
tion was the only principle by which they
were allowed to live. We paid passage on
the Eastern bound train, and presently we
were seated in the cars, we heard something
said about an accident that had just hap-
pened, which we afterward read, of a man
dropping a double-barrel gun, and the dis-
charging of both barrels into a man and
woman who were walking along, and it was
thought the wounds would prove fatal, we
a few minutes previous had passed over the
same ground.
	At Peterson Station we were met by Bro.
Jesse Haven and wife, whom we accompa-
nied to their home at Enterprise, a small
place which had suffered, in times past,
from grasshoppers and frost, and considera-
ble destruction of cattle by the cars, but by
the energies of the people they have suc-
ceeded in establishing homes and have a
pleasant town-site, with a small white
school-house which seemed to over-look
everything else.
	In the afternoon we crossed Weber River
to Peterson settlement; Bishop Peterson's
son was lying sick with the typhoid fever,
but he had all faith that he should recover
in time to go to conference.
	We met in the evening with the sisters,
and I told them the object of our visit, that
we were traveling in the interest of the
Silk Association, and as Agents for the
WOMANS' EXPONENT and other sundry
items.
	Bishop Peterson related to us his success
in making a splendid article of cheese
which was done upon a co-operative princi-
ple; in two months and ten days, they had
made six thousand lbs. I told him I could
not see the policy of our importing cheese
when that of a superior quality could be
furnished at home.
	Five miles further at 10 a. m., on the
19th, we met with the sisters at Milton.
One particular feature of this place was a
nice house built and owned by the High
Priests. Here the people were all very ac-
tive in taking care of what crops the frost
had left them. We learned that all the
settlements through Morgan, Summit and
Wasatch Counties had been visited with a
cutting frost on the 9th of August, which
had naturally affected their wheat crops,
the altitude is such that their seasons are
very short, having late springs and early
falls; they were just threshing their grain
in many places where we visited. Half a
mile further, was Littleton. Bishop W. G.
Smith accompanied us on to South Morgan,
two miles ride brought us to Bro. Eding-
ton's. At four o'clock we met with a full
house and after meeting, Bishop Smith in-
vited the people to accompany him
to North Morgan; in the evening at 7
o'clock, we found another full house,
we returned to Bro. Eddington's and enjoy-
ed their hospitality for the night. In the
morning of the 20th, Bishop Smith came
along and accompanied us up Canyon Creek

[Column 2]
three miles to Richville, where we met the
people of the settlement in a meeting house
and about a million wasps. Nearly all the
meeting houses that we entered, as we
continued up the valley were inhabited
with them, also some dwelling houses.
	Two miles further, at West Porterville,
we held a meeting at two o'clock p. m.
Bishop Smith invited the people to accom-
pany us to East Porterville and attend a
meeting at 7 o'clock. The meeting was
held at Mrs A. Porter's the President of the
Relief Society. From this place, Bishop
Smith was obliged to return home; he told
us he felt our labors were effecting a great
deal of good among the people. There was
a crowded house both men and women and
we were listened to with attention and in-
terest.
	The morning of the 21st we came down
the Creek to Morgan City again. Went up
the Weber about a mile and a half and
came to little sunny "Round Valley" appar-
ently large enough to make half a dozen
good farms. Here we solicited and urged
the raising of the mulberry trees which to
all appearance could be raised successfully.
The sisters here, as in other country places
seemed to be endeared to the sunbonnet,
we endeavored to show them the utility of
making and wearing home-made straw hats.
Here we met Bishop Edward Hunter's son,
he had a nicely located piece of land, and
a foundation for what I should call a New
England farm.
	We continued up the Weber ten miles
over a very rough road to Croydon; on this
road is the "Devil's Slide," it is on the side
hill about half a mile long with a couple of
perpendicular rock walls about twenty feet
high leaving a space of a few feet be-
tween. We passed the tunnel which seem-
ed at the distance to be no more no less
than a black hole in the mountains
where some wild animal had his den.
From the bushes, as we traveled along,
we gathered choke-cherries, haws, and au-
tumn leaves. We arrived at Croydon feel-
ing very tired. There was a meeting at
four o'clock; after a refreshing repast of
tender beefsteak etc. at the house of Prest.
Ellen Thackeray (which I wish by the by
that half our young girls knew how to cook
as well,) and somewhat rested, our spirits
were more buoyant, and we hurriedly
improved our time; the sisters expressed a
regret for the brevity of our visit. At sun-
set we left for Henneferville, three miles
further, stayed all night at Bishop Rich-
en's. 
	We met with the Relief Society at 10 a.
m. The Prest. Anna Bunot had bur-
ried her infant twins; she seemed beloved
by all; and her spirit appeared as if it was
almost too feeble for this mundane sphere.
After meeting, the Bishop took us through
Echo to Coalville. We arrived later than
expected, and the meeting was nearly over;
but there was one appointed for the next
day at 10 a. m., at which time we assem-
bled with the Saints and enjoyed a refresh-
ing time, attended to business &c. We
then went three miles to Unionville and
met with the sisters at 2 p. m. The Presi-
dent, Ann Lowe, is sixty-five years of age,
is full of spirit and hope, the inhabitants
are scattered and she was obliged to walk
three miles to attend meeting, she also
walked six miles to attend a meeting at
Coalsville. The same evening we arrived
at Sister Susan S. Richards, at Wanship.
There we went to the Sabbath meeting, but
Sister Howard was quite ill.
	Monday 25th, at 10 a. m., we met with
the sisters at meeting, also visited a sick
sister. On entering one sisters house, we

[Column 3]
were interested with an evergreen vine
that was trained from a couple of windows
into the four corners of the room and from
thence forming a complete net work on the
ceiling. Three and a half miles further, at
Lockport, we met with the sisters at 2 p. m.
The girls had decorated the house with
lovely autumn leaves. Everything spoke
of order and neatness. The President,
Mrs. Bryant, is a sister to Mrs. Wheeler,
President of the Society of the 2nd Ward,
S. L. City. She was full of zeal and en-
ergy.
	We passed on to Peoa, four miles further,
and at 7 o'clock met the sisters in another
well filled house. We met in several pla-
ces where the floors were wet from recent
scrubbing. How unwise for delicate wo-
men and girls to assemble in halls, under
any circumstance, on wet floors, it causes
much lamentable sickness and distress.
Bishop Marchant, a jolly, good man,
seemed quite elated over our meeting; said
if we had been told the condition of the
settlement, we could not have made more
appropriate remarks. This shows that the
Lord is with His handmaidens to help them
in their weakness.
	On the 26th at 10 a. m., we were in Masell,
where we were met by the Bishop and held
a meeting in a private house. Went on to
Kamas, where the people assembled in a
large fine hall, but not yet properly seated.
The appearance of the place bespeaks that
the people have more energy, or their fac-
ulties are far in advance of some of the
settlements we have visited. The Bishop's
wife seems well adapted to lead out, is gen-
tle and kind, and co-operates with the en-
ergetic sisters she presides over. We as-
sembled with the sisters in their Society
House, at 10 a. m. on the 27th. The house
is made of logs nicely whitewashed, and
the floor covered with a carpet of their own
make. The sisters expressed themselves
well paid for meeting. We journeyed
seventeen miles further to Heber City, with
Bishop Samuel Atwood. The roads were
good, but as we went down many hundred
feet from the summit we could realize a
great change in the atmosphere. As we
traveled along our eyes wandered over the
picturesque scenery that lay on our way.
It seemed to me that the many thousand
miles over which I had traveled, I never be-
fore saw all nature clothed with such beauty;
every color of the rainbow could be seen
among the autumn leaves, and foliage that
covered the hills in groups, and clusters; it
appeared as if the God of Nature had been
forming bouquets to decorate the hills. Al-
though the air seemed soft and balmy as a
summer's morning, I found from the cold I
had taken from the wet floors that I had
quite lost my voice, and was obliged to talk
in a whisper. We reached Heber, which is
quite a city, with many well finished public
buildings, painted and grained, stores, etc;
great contrast to the farming towns. We
arrived at Bishop Hatch's. Relying upon
a higher power, and through the prayers of-
fered in my behalf, I was supported with
sufficient voice to address an audience one
hour and a half, in a large beautiful hall.
Sisters Howard also bore a strong testimony.
The Bishop appointed a meeting at 10 a.
m., on the 28th, for Sister Howard and my-
self to speak more particularly to the sisters,
after which we went to Midway about five
miles directly west of Heber, and a couple
of miles northwest of this place we visited
some great curiosities of Nature's works.
There were warm springs and many mounds
that had formed from the lime in the water,
as it boiled up over their pots. One large
hill was sending forth lime water over its


edge and down its side and still continu-
ing its work of building. At Midway, the
people were about one half Germans. This
place was particularly noticeable for some
very fine brick houses, the corners of which
were laid up of white lime stone rock and
then whitewashed which added very much
to the beauty of the buildings. Our even-
ing meeting was well attended, some peo-
ple having come from Charleston. Bro.
Watkins of Midway, has a quantity of canary
seed which he said could be raised here as
well as paying an expensive price for the
imported; he took us to Charleston and Bro.
Nymphas Murdock took us to Wallsburg,
where Sister Wall gathered her little flock
together at three p. m., and we talked to
them. At seven in the evening we met in
a beautiful, well-furnished meeting house,
built and kept expressly for worship, with
easy stationary seats. This was the last of
23 meetings which we held in twelve days
	Saturday we commenced our journey
down Provo Canyon, the roads were very
rough, but the waterfalls and the scenery
was altogether magnificent. We arrived
at home Sunday morning, Oct. 1st,
feeling we had accomplished some lit-
tle good.
						E. S. B.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		87


FROM HAWAII.

	EXTRACTS FROM SEVERAL LETTERS BY
SISTER JANE E. MOLEN TO HER FRIENDS.

			LAIE, OAHU, June 19, 1876.
	We left Ogden May 10th; had a pleasant
ride on the cars, lasting two days and nights;
spent a day and a half in San Francisco.
We sailed on the Steamer Zealandia on the
24th; had a very successful voyage; arrived
at Honolulu June 1st where we met Bro.
A. L. Smith, waiting with conveyances to
bring us to this place, the distance being
thirty-two miles. We found a hearty wel-
come waiting us, both from our folks and
the natives.
	The natives seem well pleased with their
new President, Bro. Pack, and show great
love for Bro. Smith, who has done a great
deal towards bringing them together and
uniting them.
	I am well pleased with this place, also
with the people. The children show a great
desire to learn English.
	Sister Mildred Randal has started a nice
little school. I hope that I may be able to
continue the work and be an instrument in
the hands of the Lord in doing good.
	Sisters Woolley and Lambert wish kind
remembrance. They are good Latter-day
Saints, and feel to exercise patience and
faith.
	I think this a very healthy place. There
is a continuous breeze, from the sea, and one
does not feel the heat so much as at home.
If this place were our home, and our dear
friends were all here, I should think it beau-
tiful. We have a nice large school room,
larger than our school room at Hyde Park.
It is the meeting honse.
	I like the pupils; they are like our chil-
dren at home—some more studious than
others.
	The natives grow very pretty flowers.
The geranium grows wild here, pink, scar-
let, sweet-scented. Many of our choice
plants grow here without water except the
rain. There are but few of the natives, as
far as I have become acquainted, who care
enough for anything like refinement to grow
flowers. They are, mostly, the most de-
praved people that I ever heard of. I have


come to the conclusion that if a virtuous
people ever grows out of the people here, it
will be through their gathering to Utah.
There are a considerable number wanting to
go.
	I sometimes think how pleasant it would
be to meet with all my dear friends at home;
but I desire and pray that I may be patient,
and fulfill my mission honorably. It would
seem very lonesome when my husband is
away, but the Lord strengthens me and I
enjoy a peaceful spirit.
	This is a strange people. They are well
educated in their language. The little boys
and girls will read the newspapers as read-
ily as their parents can. Children twelve
years of age have good educations. The
Government compels them to go to school.
			To be continued.


SPELLING IN OLD TIMES.

	In the reign of Henry V. good spelling
and clean shirts were equally rare luxuries.
Leicester, says Disraeli, spelled his own
name in eight different methods, while the
family appellation of Millers, in deeds and
documents relating to the house, is spelled
in at least a dozen. Mainwaring passed
through 131 orthographical permutations,
and is even now, if spelling have aught to
do with pronunciation, spelled incorrectly
at last. The immortal bard himself, not to
speak of what others did for him, changed
his own mind some thirty times, according
to Halliwell, as to the letters and the se-
quence of the letters composing his illustri-
ous patronymic. Elizabeth wrote sovereign
in as many ways, as she knew languages—
that is, seven. The young Pretender, fol-
lowing his own sweet will, and entirely
free from any s[-]rvile bondage to the letter,
writes of his father as a certain Jems or
Gems. In those palmy days, when every
man was his own speller, when military ex-
aminations were not, little attonishment
would have been raised by such arbitrary
orthography as lately adorned the paper of
a candidate for one of her Majesty's appoint-
ments in the line. That candidate spelled
elegy leg, and ingeniously evolved pash-
shinger out of passenger. Much ingenui-
ty, nay imagination, inspired another, who
framed Indian eras out of engineers.
	But what are such trifling irregularities
as these to the caprice of—say her Grace
the Duchess of Norfolk? The Duchess was
one of the most accomplished ladies of the
sixteenth century, the friend of scholars,
the patron of literature. She wrote to the
Earl of Essex, thus:—"My ffary gode lord,
—her I sand you in tokyn hoff the neweyer
a glasse hoff Setyl set in Sellfer gyld. I
prayou tak hit An hy wer hable het showlde
be batar," &c. The patron of literature
has ingeniously contrived to spell I and it
each in two different ways in as many lines.
What this friend of scholars intended the
Earl to understand by Setyl is very obscure.
There is a Scotch word something like it,
signifying "a disease affecting sheep in the
side," but this the most accomplished lady
can scarcely have intended.—Cornhill Maga-
zine.


DAVID A. WELLS ON COMMERCIAL
			DEPRESSION.

	The following extract from the address
of David A. Wells, the well-known statis-
tician; delivered by him before the conven-
tion of social science, of which he is presi-
dent, and which recently met at Saratoga,
will, we think, be of value at this time in


furnishing some solution for the oft-repeat-
ed question "Why are commercial interests
so depressed?"
	It is evident from examination, that the
present condition of the country is not due
to natural causes. It is due to artificial
causes, and, as such, can be removed. The
first point that strikes attention is the uni-
versality of the present depression in busi-
ness. It is world-wide, though slight in
particular nations, as in France. It is the
greatest in the United States. This does
not teach however that the depression is
due entirely to causes acting universally,
but investigation will show that the general
result we recognize has been due rather to
the current action of very many causes,
originally, local, and which, if nations had
been isolated to the extent they were a
hundred years ago, would have been ex-
ceedingly limited, or endemic, in their in-
fluences, but which, under the close rela-
tionship into which nations have been
brought by improved means of intercom-
mnnication, have become all-pervading or
epidemic, in their influences. Of such gen
eral causes originating in one country, but
coming into action and producing disturb-
ances throughout the whole circle of civiliz-
ed states at nearly the same time, I can
think of only one that is entitled to be thus
classified, and that is the steady and exten-
sive introductoon and use of labor-saving
machinery and processes. A more import-
ant influence, however, is the aggregate
loss of capital which for ten or fifteen years
the world has been experiencing. These
losses are due to bad investments in railroad
bonds, the colossal war expenditures of the
world (the national debts of the world have
increased ten billion dollars since 1861,
making their aggregate now twenty-five
billion dollars,) the panics and mercantile
failures of the world, the brnkruptcy of
governments, and the enormous increase
of taxation, particularly in the United
States.
	Another agency, which has operated con-
jointly and even more powerfully than war
expenditures and an excessive irredeema-
ble currency to impair the aggregate of na-
tional abundance, by diverting labor from
productive to unproductive or less produc-
tive employments, and which is even now
in full continuance, has been, and is the
wholesale recognition and practical appli-
cation since 1860, of the doctrine of ex-
treme protection as a part of our national
fiscal policy. And the loss of capital and
the waste of labor which we have experi-
enced, and are now experiencing in conse-
quence of this policy, have contributed
more than any one thing, in my opinion, to
make us poor, and it will continue to keep
us so, so long as it is continued.—Eclectic
Magazine.


FLOWERS.

	THE best friends are those who stimulate
each other [--] do good.
	GREAT works are performed, not by
strength, but by perseverance.
	THE man who contents himself to-day
with that which he has will content himself
to-morrow with that which he may have.
	People who suppose that a good prayer is
preferred to a good act, doubtless imagine
that God has more hearing than eyesight.
The end, we fear, will show that they rea-
soned from false premises. The poor are
oftener prayed for than helped. The rea-
son is, we believe that air is cheaper than
bullion.


88		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S HEART.

	It is my opinion there is a period in the
early life of every true woman when moral
and intellectual growth seem, for a time to
cease. The vacant heart seeks for an occu-
pant. The intellect, having appropriated
aliment requisite to the growth of the un-
crowned feminine natures, feels the neces-
sity of more intimate companionship with
the masculine mind, to start it on its second
period of development. Here, at this point,
some stand for years, without making a
step in advance.
	Others marry, and astonish, in a few
brief years, by the development of higher
and holier emotions, their sweet tempers,
their new physical and mental beauty,
their high accomplishments, and their noble
womanhood, those whose blindness led
them to suppose women devoid of such lov-
able traits of character.
					MRS. DR. RHUGO.
S. L. City, Oct. 14, 1876.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Lime-water and milk is said to be a most useful
compound for sick or delicate infants, and also for
persons at a later period in life, when the functions
of digestion have been seriously impaired. A
tumbler of milk and four tablespoonfuls of lime-
water is about the requisite proportion for a grown
person, and will afford proper nourishment when
almost everything else fails.
	It is asserted upon the authority of persons of
great experience in sickness and disease, that in
many instances men and women who have suf-
fered from nervousness until their hands shake
like leaves on a tree in a windy day, and others
who have become so affected as to cause irregular-
ity of the pulsations of the heart which produces
undue excitement, have been effectually cured by
the daily use of celery eaten at meal times.
	A medical lady of some repute tells us that
thousands of people create lung disease from their
own willfulness and ignorance, from the effects of
a pressure on the lungs through the habit of sit-
ting, standing and walking with the head drawn
forward and stooping; this prevents the lungs from
filling with air naturally, as they otherwise would.
Stand erect and throw your shoulders back if you
would preserve your health and life.
	An excellent cough powder may be prepared
from skunk cabbage root, comfrey root and white
sugar. Take equal quantities of each, pulverized,
and mix together, and use one-half dram for a
dose in a little water three times a day, or morn-
ing and evening. The skunk cabbage is a peren-
nial plant growing in boggy swamps. The root
has anti-spasmodic properties and is very useful in
chronic colds, coughs and asthma, and should be
prepared as a powder.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To prepare a counterfeit cream for tea and cof-
fee, take one egg, one half cup of sugar, one half
cup of sweet milk, one half cup of cornstarch, beat
well together.
	White Fruit Cake.—Take one cup of butter, two
of sugar, one of sour milk, the whites of three
eggs, the whole of one egg, one teaspoonful of soda;
two of cream tartar, and one and a half cups of
raisins stoned and floured.
	Cookies.—Two cups of sugar, one of butter,
one egg, one half cup of sweet milk, two teaspoon-
fuls of cream tartar and one of soda, add nutmeg.
Take sufficient flour to mix, and roll out. Sprin-
kle sugar over the top and roll it in before cutting
them out. Put them on a paper to cool before
piling them up to store away.


Old-Fashioned Fried Cakes.—Take 1/2 cup sugar,
1/2 cup shortening, one pint sour milk, one teaspoon-
ful saleratus, season with allspice or nutmeg; mix
with sufficient flour, but not too hard. Have your
lard hot enough to make the cakes a darkish
brown. These cakes can be made very quickly,
and will keep a long time in cool weather and do
not get stale or dry.
	Home Prepared Citron for Cakes and Pud-
dings.—Take the citron, cut and prepare it in the
ordinary way except to boil the syrup until it is
quite thick, but instead of closing up the jars,
leave them open for the air to enter, taking, of
course, every precaution against dust or damp.
The preserve will then dry gradually, and you
have an excellent substitute for the imported arti-
cle, which will answ r the same purposes. Now
is the time of year, and there are plenty of citrons
for sale very cheap. Another year perhaps many
housekeepers knowing this recipe may raise their
own citrons at home.


[Column 1]
	WOMAN'S
COMMISSION HOUSE
	IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
WOLLEN GOODS,
		SUCH AS
FLANNELS,
	LINSEYS,
		WATERPROOFS,
			JEANS,
				DOE-SKINS,
					YARNS,
						STOCKINGS,
							GLOVES,
								LADIES' JACKETS, &c.
									FANCY ARTICLES,
[-]ATS, SHOES,
	BRUSHES,
		BROOMS,
			BUTTER,
				CHEESE, EGGS,
					FLOUR, CIDER,
						VINEGAR,
							INK, SOAPS,
								LAUNDRY
									BLUEING,
		ALSO A VARIETY OF
MEDICINES,
		INCLUDING
	D. Huntington's Celebrated
INDIAN REMEDIES!
		AND THE
Oil of Artemisia,
	OR WILD SAGE.
ALL HOME MANUFACTURE.

	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

[Column 2]
	DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
	Orders from the country promptly responded to.
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
			Manufacturers of
	ESSENCE OF JAMAICA GINGER,
	TOILET SOAP, (Highly Perfumed,)
BATH SAND TABLETS,
		Indispensable to the Toilet and Bath Room.
SCOURING SOAP,
		A great Saving of Labor to the Housekeeper.
SUPERIOR WRITING FLUID,
	One of the best flowing and durable Inks ever made.
	We Warrant our Articles Pure.
			JOSEPH L. BARFOOT, Chemical Director
Addres		R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
	Lock Box, 1064.		Salt Lake City.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fasions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
price.				17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
