VOL. 5	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1877	No. 15


For the EXPONENT.
THE NEW ERA.

	Now, with the dawning of the glad new year,
Comes thoughts of other days and mem'ries dear
How thrillingly the finer senses glow
As retrospective visions come and go:
And lo! we grasp the shadow's quiv'ring ray,
And blend it with the REAL of to-day.

And once again, we wander as of old
'Mid scenes which radiant fancies now unfold,
Where loving friends around the cottage hearth
With song and jest pour forth their joy and mirth:
We summon to our thoughts the friends we knew
And linger fondly o'er the good and true.

Oh! hush the throbbings of the pent up heart!
Why will the tears of long-gone sorrows start?
Banish the griefs—put miseries aside—
Let joy replete in merry measure glide—
Yet, pause! methinks I hear the people say,
Another era has begun to-day,

And those who see a few more years go by
Will know Messiah's coming draweth nigh.
E'en now the signs of judgments in the land
Should cause the wise to wake and understand;
That this proud nation's cup is full and more,
With rank corruption, which is running o'er.

Ye great and high ones! for the nation's sake,
Repent, reform, and restitution make,
Lest those whose happiness should be your care,
Are driven to the depths of dark despair
By war and famine's desolating hand,
Marring the beauty of this goodly land.

Woman, awake! as mother, daughter, friend,
Thine energies and earnest efforts lend,
To help thy country in her hour of need—
Prove thy integrity by word and deed.
For woman's star is lighting up the dawn,
And rosy gleams presage the coming morn.

Yes, woman hath a mission to perform,
Embodying the germs of true reform.
For her a nobler era, broader sphere;
Then banish shadows, doubts, and ev'ry fear;
The inspiration of a clearer light,
Will strengthen thee, and nerve thee for the right.

S. L. City, Jan. 1, 1877.	E. B. WELLS


CLOSE OF THE CENTENNIAL
YEAR.

	It came and it has gone! The year so
lately new, so long looked forward to and
labored for, anticipated, dreamed and prated
of, is now but simply like its fellow
years, a monument of history, of memory,
of the past. We look about us, and with
startled breath, pronounce the old year
dead! and wonder that its days have passed
so soon. But wherefore marvel? Days and
years, like men are born to die. And men
must stamp alike their times and names,
by works of good or ill, with light or
shade.
	Now comes the query, what events will
mark the period just closed? Have indus-
try and true ambition had free exercise, for
good and noble deeds? Have men in high
positions in this land made manifest an in-
nate sense of honor? Has virtue's progress
been their generous aim? Has God been
in their councils? Has his voice approved
their course? Has His justice character-
ized their movements? The present aspect
of our national affairs, answers too plainly,
too profoundly NO! The hundredth birth-
day of American Independence is shame-
fully disgraced by shameless men. The
grand Centennial year is darkly shaded; no
wonder 'twas in haste to fill its time.


The glory of America is surely gone.
Political intrigues, official cheats, bold, law-
less demagogues with vile intent, hypocri-
sy and tyranny and crime, have rendered
her high courts corrupt as Hades and as in-
famous! Where justice once with Godlike
wisdom reigned, now dire confusion rages
frantically. There is no purity, no reason
left.
	The fierce and heartless cry of "Crucify!"
again seems rending the perverted air.
"Polygamy!" "Polygamy!" is the note
that's sounded from the very head of gov-
ernment. "The Mormons must be punish-
ed for their sins." But mark! These men
so zealous in the cause of forcing others to
their form of right, will yet concede they
have enough to do among themselves, to
quarrel with and tantalize each other.
Their dreadful work of preparation for the
land to be laid waste and desolate, moves
rapidly along. And soon will sound abroad
the mournful wail, the sad and terrible and
wild lament—America, the great, the proud,
the FREE, is fallen! fallen! fallen!
	But will this seal the closing scene of her
great destiny? No! when iniquity is swept
away, then will commence the glorious
reign of peace. The good and true from
every nation will continue to be gathered,
to build, to people and inhabit here. This
choice, promised land will be o'erspread
with cities of the Saints, and dotted with
superb and lofty Temples, built to the name
of Israel's Most High God. Another hun-
dred years will, doubtless, bring a brighter
day for fair beloved America, than ever
yet has dawned.				INEZ.
	S. L. City, Dec. 31, 1876.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	AN EXCHANGE says that "Dr. Forbes
Winslow records the startling fact that over
10,000 persons of unsound mind are confin-
ed in the lunatic asylums of the United
States, driven mad from over excitement
on the subject of spiritualism, and that in-
sanity from the same cause is prevalent in
England and increasing every day."
	AN INTERNATIONAL Retrospective Ex-
hibition of Curiosities of all kinds, from in-
struments of prehistoric times to objects of
art up to to the year 1800, will be specially
held at the Paris Exposition of 1878. An
Archaeological Committee has been institut-
ed for that purpose, under the direction of
M. de Longperier, of the Institute. The
collectors of the world are invited to parti-
cipate in the interesting enterprise.
	THERE is in London a "Women's Print-
ing Society," which, it is said, affords more
facilities for girls to become proficient in
typesetting and other branches of printing
which are practicable for them than ordina-
ry workshops of this sort. They go on
trial for one month, after which they enter
upon a three year's apprenticeship, receiv-
ing small weekly wages which are increased
in equitable proportion. It has been pro-
posed that when the women employed by
the Society shall be competent workers
they receive the ordinary trade rate of re-
muneration, so as no unfair competition
with men's work can result from it.


PETITION OF SUNDAY SCHOOL
CHILDREN,

	We publish the following touching peti-
tion in full, which we consider indicative of
the sentiments and expressions of the
children of Zion, "the hope of Israel."

Salt Lake City, Dec. 1, 1876.
	To the Honorable the Mayor and City
Council:
	Gentlemen:—We, the undersigned, Teach-
and Scholars of Sunday Schools of Salt
Lake City, respectfully, yet earnestly, peti-
tion—That your honorable body will use to
the fullest extent the powers with which
the law invests you, to control, restrain and
reduce the traffic in intoxicating liquors,
which at the present time is growing to
such alarming proportions in the midst of
our highly favored city.
	We do this, because we know that drain-
shops, with their kindred resorts, where
liquor is sold, are too often the cause of our
youth taking the first step to moral degra-
dation, infamy and destruction; because we
know their open doors are an ever present
invitation to the unguarded to sin, and a
detriment to those who are seeking to re-
form; because we realize that in these sink-
holes of iniquity not only are habits of in-
temperance formed, but also others equally
degrading and repulsive; that not only are
they the schools of the drunkard, but also
of the gambler, the thief, and often the
murderer; that they are the pest houses
that corrupt society; that they, more than
any other cause of evil, fill the prisons of
our country with felons and its almshouses
with paupers, and they even rob the tem-
perate and sober of their earnings by in-
creasing the taxes of every citizen.
	We most heartily desire to see these evils
averted from ourselves: Therefore, we, as
the youth of Salt Lake City, with those so
much interested in our temporal and eter-
nal welfare, sincerely trust that you will aid
us all in your power and, as we have been
ever taught to pray to our Heavenly Father
to "leave us not in temptation," so do we
now ask of you, the Fathers of this City, to
remove, so far as your power and authority
extend, these causes of temptation and
thus aid us in our efforts to live lives of
temperance, virtue and sobriety and to be-
come law abiding and worthy citizens of
our much loved Utah.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	WHAT goes first in at the church door?
The key.
	WHAT is that which is often found where
it is not? Fault.
	THE longest periods in a boy's life.—
Those between meals.
	"Borrow as you go" is popular, but "bor-
row all you can and then go" is more so.
	AN old author quaintly remarks, "Avoid
argument with the ladies. In spinning
yarns among silks and satins a man is sure
to be worsted and twisted, and when worst-
ed and twisted he may consider himself
wound up."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

			ALPINE CITY, Dec. 19th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Desiring to be one with our sisters, I
write a few lines to the EXPONENT, that
you may know the intentions of our Relief
Society in regard to the saving and storing
of grain. The sisters are responding to the
call by donating liberally of the small
amount of means at their command. It is
the intention of the sisters, as fast as means
can be obtained for this purpose in the So-
ciety, to use the same for buying grain.
The sisters are interested, and desire to
make the business a successful one.
	We remain your sisters in the covenant,
	Margaret McCullough, Prest., Ann Wal-
ton, Angela Vance, Counselors.

			LAKEVIEW, Dec. 12, 1870.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	The members of the Relief and Retrench-
ment Societies are generally all alive to
their duties, we each have our meetings
every two weeks; we have made a com-
mencement towards the laying up of grain.
The sisters of our ward held a social party
last Friday evening, nearly all the members
of our ward attended. We all partook of
supper at four o'clock which had been pre-
pared for the occasion; after the tables were
cleared away, we enjoyed ourselves in danc-
ing, singing and also had some very ap-
propriate speeches from our invited guests;
among whom were Sister Mary Micklejohn,
President of the Relief Society of Tooele,
Bros. Robert Micklejohn and Abel Parker,
who are acting presidents of Tooele in place
of our much respected Bishop who has gone
on a mission; also Bro. Hugh Gowans who
is acting as Bishop, and Bro. Delamare.
We all enjoyed ourselves very much, and
the party closed at 11 o'clock. We had no
round dances, never have had any since our
Retrenchment Association was organized
by Sisters E. R. Snow, M. I. Horne and
Elizabeth Howard, nearly three years ago.
						I. G. M. 

		BEAVER CITY, UTAH, Dec. 12, 1876.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	We enjoyed a rare treat during the recent
visit of Mrs. M. I. Horne. She held three
meetings in this place which were well at-
tended by both young and old of both sex-
es. Her instructions, principally, were to
the ladies of the Relief Societies and Re-
trenchment Associations, but were of a
character to benefit all who heard them.
	The subjects most spoken upon were the
necessity of laying up grain, sustaining the
EXPONENT, assisting in the publication of
the Woman's Book, and patronizing home-
manufacture. She advised the sisters to in-
terest themselves in silk-culture, and gave
good counsel on many subjects pertaining
to our every-day duties.
	Mrs. Caroline Shipp, also from Salt Lake
City, was present and made a few excellent
remarks.
	There was a change in the organization
of our Relief Society last June, occasioned
by the resignation of the President, Mrs.
Lucinda Houd. The organization now
stands as follows:
	Mrs. R. W. Tyler, President.
	"	Eliza W. Hawkins,	} Counselors.
	"	Annie Louie,		}
	"	Mary E. Ashworth, Secretary;
	Miss Harriet S. Shepherd Ass't Sec'y.
	Mrs. Almira H. Murdock, Treasurer.
	The following is a report of the disburse-

[Column 2]
ments of the Society since the first of July
of this year, all of which has been received
by donations during that time.
	To assist in reparing public
	meeting house........................... $ 42 45
	To the Temple............................    14 50
	To the poor.................................	   36 50
	Work done for those in need...     21 85
			Total.............................   115 30

			14 WARD, S. L. CITY,
					Dec. 22, 1876.
EDITORS' EXPONENT:
	Our esteemed Pres. Mrs. M. I. Horne has
requested that I send you a brief report of
our ninth annual meeting which was held
at the Society Hall, Dec. 13, 1876.
	More than the usual number of sisters
were in attendance, and we were also hon-
ored with the presence of Bishop Thomas
Taylor, and Counselor G. H. Taylor; after
singing prayer, and roll call, the Secretary
read the Annual Report as follows:
		Donations during the year.
	Cash............................................ $ 46 55
	Sundries.....................................     61 37
	Articles sold...............................      42 60
	Loan of Temple Clothes...........      38 70
	Rent of part of our building......     55 15
	Interest on money invested......     25 50
								  ———
	Total.............................................   269 87
			Disbursed during year.
	To the needy................................ 159 78 1/2
	Materials for work, etc...............	33 50
	Washing Temple Clothes...........	17 90
	Repairing Hall after Explosion,           14 60
	Book, "Life of Brigham
		Young"...............................	          3 00
	Wheat Central Committee.........	  5 00
									———
	Total.......................................... 233 78 1/2
	Balance on hand.......................	36 08 1/2
	We have donated to the Temple in quilts,
	stockings, shirts, clothing etc...... $	77 25
	To Woman's Commission Store..	 7 65
	We are also making preparations to in-
vest seventy-five dollars in the purchase of
wheat.
	After the Report had been unanimously
accepted, Prest. Mrs. Horne addressed the
meeting in her usual earnest and energetic
manner, upon storing our grain, the Wo-
man's Book, and other subjects of business.
	Bishop Taylor being called upon, ex-
pressed himself pleased to meet with us, al-
so pleased with our reports and method of
doing business. Thought the storing of
grain a very wise movement, and proffered
room in the basement of the Ward Hall for
our bins. Said we had his best feelings and
confidence and that he would assist us all in
his power. Counseled us to be temperate
in all our movements, even in our sympathy
for the poor, but to help and bless all who
are really needy.
	Elder G. H. Taylor and Sister W. East
also made some timely and interesting re-
marks.
	The same spirit of unity and good feel-
ing prevailed which has always character-
ized the meetings of our society.
	That the blessing of God our Heavenly
Father may be upon you to assist you in
your high and holy calling, is the prayer of
your sister &c.
				ELMINA S. TAYLOR,
								Sec'y.


"A MAN should always live within his in-
come," says an American, "even if he has
to borrow money to do it."


NOTES FROM MARY CLEMMER'S 
LETTER.

	Some time when I am old and the glory
of the past shall come back to me, to light
up the gray shadows of many years, I shall
see this picture of the Centennial. Not its
booths and bazars, its noisy Turks, its peace-
ful Chinese, its endless throngs, and illimit-
able displays; but this: the sun sending his
lengthened rays across a wilderness of
bloom and shooting myriad arrows of fire
through the lofty oaks, elms and chestnuts
clustering above the Gothic roof of Horti-
cultural Hall. I shall recall the glory of the
grounds when the marvels of the miles of
show-cases have faded out of sight. Lands-
downe Valley, with its glancing rivnlets,
its profuse vines, touched with the first vi-
vid scarlets of autumn, its native giants of
oak and elm, maple and sycamore, is a mar-
vel of beauty that seems cut straight out of
Naure's heart, while a whole letter could
not paint the glory of the gardens. When
I came here the scarlet and rose geraniums,
verbenas, hydrangeas were at their bright-
est. Wandering through the broad inter-
esting avenues, far as the eye could reach,
on and on, the emerald sod was shot with
these broad bands of flaming color; while
beside them—"like moonlight unto sun-
light"—were the softly-shaded beds of
pale yellow, green and white, the pampas
grasses nodding their silvery plumes, the
pale English ivies dappled and white-edged.
Then the tamarisk stretched forth its bright
green wands, and the weigelia waved its
white and scarlet blossoms, and the homely
flowers of home were everywhere beside
our feet. The ragged robin, marigold,
Joseph's coat, larkspur, fox glove, spider
plant, snapdragon, the morning glory, the
clematis, old-man, love-lies-bleeding, the
mourning bride, bergamot, petunias, and
dahlias—all were here, with their memor-
ies of home, childhood, and youth. How
gay they looked one evening, how glad, as
I sat down on a seat by the way, just before
the gates closed. It was then the sun
spread out his rays gathering all this beauty
into his splendor and made my picture for
all time. I came back in the morning, and
"the brightness of their smile was gone
from upland, glade, and glen." In the night
"the frost fell from the clear cold heavens,"
and suddenly the fervor of color was
quenched. The flowers were dead. The
dahlias hung to their blackened stalks. The
long ramparts of bloom that stood so brave
and glowing yesterday, were shriveled and
fallen now. The meek sunlight of these
Indian Summer days draws the subtle
sweetness of the waning year out of these
sepulchers of the flowers. The air is odor-
ous with their dying fragrance. Here and
there a late, late rose still dares to bloom in
the face of the menacing frost. The wax
balls hang amid their crisp leaves. Here
and there a cluster of scarlet berries show
ruddy against a gray back-ground; but the
amber skies are crossed by leafless boughs.
The gay umbrage of the park is sodden un-
der our feet. "The year smiles as it draws
near its death" and it has almost "had its
day"—the great Exhibition.


IT is stated upon good authority that
"George Elliot" has already received $5,-
000 from the Harper Bro's for "Daniel De-
ronda."
	MOTHER: "Now, Gerty, be a good girl,
and give Aunt Julia a kiss, and say good-
night." Gerty: "No, no! If I kiss her,
she'll box my ears like she did papa's last
night."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE GOD WE WORSHIP.

	[From the San Francisco Chronicle]

We choose all substance: what remains
The mystic, blind sectarian gains:
All that each claims may each possess,
Nor grudge each other's happiness.

An immaterial God they choose,
An immaterial Heaven and Hell;
For such a God we have no use;
In such a Heaven we cannot dwell.

We claim the earth, the air and sky,
And all the starry worlds on high;
Gold, silver, pearls and precious stones,
And bodies made of flesh and bones.

Our God like us can hear and see,
Taste, smell and feel eternally:
Immortal brain He has to think,
Organs to speak, and eat, and drink.

With man on earth or heaven He dines;
His heart is cheered with fruits of vines;
Of Sara's bread and Abram's calf
He ate and drank, 'till Sara laughed.

The foremost in all branches He
Of useful art or industry;
To plant, to build, or dress the field,
Or make old Eden's garden yield.

A farmer, architect and scribe,
A tailer and all else beside;
He taught old Abram how to farm,
And make him coats to keep him warm.

Noah He taught to build a ship,
And Moses how man's record keep;
He introduced the heavenly plan,
Of architecture unto man;

By which stupendous worlds were reared,
And courts on earth for Him prepared,
That when from heaven He chose to come,
He found on earth a heavenly home.

Such is our God, our Heaven, our all.
When once redeemed from Adam's fall
All things are ours, and we shall be
The Lord's to all eternity!


[COLUMN 1]

CORRESPONDENCE.

LANCASTER CITY AND CO., PA.,
	Dec. 16, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:

	This mission has fixed in my mind a con-
clusion which to your readers may be both
new and novel. I allude directly to the
immense amount of good the Orthodox
ladies of Utah could do abroad with their
husbands or father's, in allaying the deep-
seated prejudice there is against our—WILL
BE—most popular institution, viz., "Celes-
tial Marriage." Throughout this country
the people have been treated with periodi-
cal doses of "pen dente lite," "Tell it all,"
"Fifteen years among the Mormons," and
numerous other trashy, lying, sensational
effusions, gotten up by designing men for
money-making purposes. They have not
seen or heard a "Mormon" Elder for a great
many years in this, and no doubt most other
counties of the State, and I am sure that a
hopeful, thorough Elder, with the presence
of a faithful, devoted wife, or daughter,
would accomplish as much or more good
than two Elders traveling together. I feel
pretty certain that the feeling of confidence
in the ability and integrity of the ladies of
Utah is rapidly obtaining in Zion, hence the
confident appeals to them to treasure up
wheat, nurse home industries, such as the
manufacture and sale of home products, and
the vast amount of good they are doing
through the Relief Societies. That God
may speed them success is my humble
prayer. I would suggest in this connection
that the Elders had better look to their
"laurels," or they may lose the credit of
being Saviors on Mount Zion. A popular
writer referring to a universal prejudice

[COLUMN 2]

says: "Such has been the crushing effect of
public sentiment that women almost feel
like apologizing for being on the earth at
all." I witnessed a striking illustration of
the greater susceptibility of women over
men in religious matters a few evenings
ago, in Strasburg, in this County, while at-
tending a distracted Methodist meeting.
Out of the goodly number that knelt at
the "anxious seat" not a single man was
present, and yet there were numbers in theroom that might have gone up to that man-
ner of chaff and husks with profit to them-
selves and families.
	I need not inform you that everybody
and his neighbor is anxious to learn all
about the "peculiar institution," and that
questions on that subject are always first in
order. But I will tell you that I have had
but little trouble in removing much of that
prejudice at all times when a fair opportu-
nity is given.

	I expect Bro. O. F. Whitney to join me
here in a day or two; will try and retain
him with me, as I much need his help.
	That the Lord will always bless your ef-
forts in disseminating the truth is the
prayer of your
	Brother in the Gospel,
		A. MILTON MUSSER.

SALT LAKE CITY, Dec. 18, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	In company with my husband and daugh-
ter, I left home on the 11th of Nov. last to
visit my children who reside in the coun-
try, and also to meet with the Relief Socie-
ties in different settlements through which
I might pass, and give them such instruc-
tion and encouragement on the various sub-
jects that are now being brought before the
sisters, as I was capable of doing with the
aid and assistance of my heavenly Father
upon whom I humbly and implicitly rely
for strength. The subjects most dwelt upon
by me in talking to the sisters, were, the
laying up of wheat, the raising and manu-
facturing of silk, sustaining the Woman's
Store and all other home-industries, also to
subscribe more liberally for the Woman's
Exponent, and invited the sisters to take
shares in the publishing of the Woman's
Book. During my journey I met with the
Relief Societies of Beaver, Fillmore, Scipio,
Gunnison, Nephi and Santaquin. In Beaver
the Relief Society has a full lot of land and
a good substantial brick building on it. I
advised them to set out mulberry trees over
the ground, and thus commence the silk-
culture. In all our meetings a good spirit
prevailed, and the people received us every-
where with marked cordiality. The Bish-
ops of the several settlements met with the
Relief Societies in the meetings, imparting
good counsel and encouragment and wish-
ing the sisters success in their united ef-
forts. The sisters everywhere were very
earnest and active in the storing up of
wheat. It is a subject which seems to have
taken hold of the hearts of the women and
they are determined to carry out this coun-
sel of the servant of God. I sincerely hope
that some good may result from my visit to
these settlements; they have not the same
advantages and opportunities that some of
us have, and are anxious to be co-workers
with those who labor for Zion.
	Trusting the seed sown may produce good
fruit in the hearts of those who desire to
keep the commandments of God, and pray-
ing always for the welfare of the Saints at
home and abroad, desiring to live to pro-
mote knowledge among the daughters of
Zion, and to be useful in the work of the

[COLUMN 3]

last dispensation, I will now close this let-
ter to my sisters.
	Truly Yours,
		M. I. HORNE.


ATTEND OUR MEETINGS.

	To all the Saints I say, let us attend our
meetings. There is no privilege or higher
duty resting upon us than this; we call it a
privilege because it is productive of great
benefit, and again it is a duty the neglect of
which will involve as much loss, as the
observance of it will gain. Meetings are
fraught with great blessings and tend to
build up the faithful Saints, or strengthen
their desire to serve the Lord and to en-
large their understanding of the doctrines
of our most holy faith; it is simply absurd
for persons who have embraced the truth, and
having begun to taste the fruits thereof, to
vainly imagine that after having conformed
with the first principles of the Gospel, they
are sure of the possession of all those
heavenly enjoyments which are due to the
faithful and diligent alone; for the posses-
sion of those promised gifts, men and wo-
men, after having found the way of salva-
tion, and commmenced to walk therein,
should continue in the line of duty and
seek to acquire sufficient knowledge of the
grand principles of the gospel which must
necessarily be understood and carried out
in our daily lives. To neglect our meetings
is ignoring our lessons in the various
branches of the gospel; it is there we are
taught not only from the lips of God's ser-
vants, but by the Holy spirit which influen-
ces and dictates the minds of those who
meet together in His name; the Savior has
said, "where two or three are gathered to-
gether in my name, there am I in the midst
of them." No matter how few the number
may be of those who meet together, the
Lord has promised to be there, and as we
are commanded to cleave unto the Lord,
and as Paul says, that we might walk wor-
thy of Him, being faithful in every good
work. Thus increasing in the knowledge
of God, our attendance to worship and per-
formance of all duties pertaining to the
"new and everlasting covenant," should be
constant and faithful, so far as possible; the
individuals who do not attend their meet-
ings will fall asleep spiritually; neglecting
this one duty leads to further and greater
negligence.
	Step by step, men and women have
fallen into darkness, and it has often been
preceded by the neglect of their meetings;
the man or woman who walks up to every
obligation resting upon him or her can nev-
er retrograde in the knowledge of the gos-
pel; such persons are all the time on the
march of improvement, and are filled with
joy and satisfaction and hope of eternal life;
they are learning, while those who neglect
their meetings are losing ground and are
looked upon as dull and idle scholars or la-
borers in the Lord's vineyard.
	I therefore say again to all the Saints, at-
tend your meetings and be humble and the
Holy spirit will be with you and manifest to
you the gifts of the gospel; you will pro-
gress with the truth and be prepared for
greater responsibilities, consequently a
greater reward will be yours and happiness
in this life and the life hereafter.
					FRANCES B. HART.
	Alma, Weber Co.


MRS. Ingelow, the mother of Jean Inge-
low, died on the 10th of Dec., at her resi-
dence in London, in her seventy-fifth year,


116		THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT

LULA GREEENE RICHARDS,	} Editors
EMMELINE B. WELLS.			}

	Pub[-]ished semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday,
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY. JAN. 1, 1877.


COMPLIMENTS.

The following came by Deseret Telegraph:
	"ST. GEORGE, Dec. 24, 1876.
"MY FAMILY AND FRIENDS AT SALT LAKE
AND ELSEWHERE:
	"The compliments of the season; wishing
you all a 'Merry Christmas' and 'Happy New
Year.' May you live to accomplish the work
given you to do of our Heavenly Father, and I
pray you may do it faithfully, that you may be
prepared to dwell eternally in the heavens.
May God grant it. Amen.
	"BRIGHAM YOUNG."


[Column 1]
		THE PAST AND PRESENT.

	Some wiseacres say "live in the present,"
yet it is natural to look backward at certain
times, and wonder too, what the future will
be, and draw comparisons between that which
was, and that which is, and form from these
certain significant, though perhaps unreliable
conclusions.
	Another year has told its tale, delivered up
its record and sealed it in the archives of the
past until the great day of reckoning: and be
the record good or evil in the balance, it must
stand—it is gone beyond recall. Every thought-
ful person must have serious reflections, as he
or she enters upon each successive year, per-
chance like this, have the deeds of the past
been such as may be disclosed without the
blush of shame? How is it with this nation,
the glorious land of liberty and freedom?
	What has brought disunion and discord into
the halls of the Capitol? Have the sins of the
people gone before them to judgment. and is
the Lord pouring out upon the nation the vi-
als of His wrath? Verily it seemeth so.
	From the east and west, north and south,
the cry of dishonesty, injustice, oppression and
all the evil results of wrong-doing are echoed
forth until "the ear is pained" and the soul
sickened with the recital of wrongs. Inevita-
ble are the consequences which result from the
breaking of God's commandments and reject-
ing the Gospel of His Son. In the unchange-
able and immutable laws of nature, causes
produce effects, and this nation have sewed
the wind and must reap the whirlwind.
	There are times when national matters, as
well as many others of a less grave nature, seem
to have reached a climax, where they require
some direct and powerful force or agency to act
upon them, to bring them into subjection or
even to rend them asunder. Wrongs and mis-
takes seem to have been accumulating in the
affairs of this nation until the wit and wis-
dom of the most profound statesman and di-
plomatist seems incompatible with the resist-

[Column 2]
ance brought to bear against right. What pow-
er is there left that can be made to react and
avert the terrible calamities that seem about to
overtake the nation. The past year has been
one of unusual note in many respects. The
Centennial year of American Independence
has been marked by many strange incidents
and fearful dilemmas in different parts of the
earth; therefore the contemplation of it as it
passes away and takes its rank among its pre-
decessors, gives thinking people questions to
solve, that puzzle the stoutest brain and the
quickest intellect. They are amazed at the
events which are transpiring and wonder what
the future will bring about. Naturally enough
some try to believe that a change of politics
might quell many disturbances and allay some
of the grievances here in the United States;
others that an empire or kingdom would be
more suited to the condition of the various peo-
ples who have gathered here under the protec-
tion of a government that seemed to possess
all the elements and strength necessary to
maintain justice and equal rights for all, Jew
or Jentile, black or white.
	The words of the Savior in the New Testa-
ment show plainly that in the last days men
should hasten to destruction, that the time
would be so short that great events would fol-
low each other quickly; this seems to have
been particularly the case during the year now
past. "Men hurrying to and fro," is not this
scripture literally fulfilled? To what the great
and universal excitement is tending the world
do not discern, but the times are ominous, if
not prophetic, even to them. Many who do
not comprehend clearly the "signs of the
times" are looking to this year and the new
administration as an augury of asupicious ris-
ing, but "Alas for my poor country," as has
been sung in other lands, unless some all pow-
erful hand is reached forth in mercy to save,
soon will this sentiment so pathetically signifi-
cant re-echo through America.


A SINGULAR DREAM

	We have been requested by sister Diantha
Billings, of Provo, an aged and venerable lady
to publish the following dream; the lady who
had this singular dream is the daughter of the
late Elder Isaac Morley.
	MANTI, SANPETE CO.
DEAR AUNT DIANTHA:

	I have had quite a curious dream and I
should like to tell it you in person, but as I
cannot do that I will write it; I have had a
strange feeling ever since, I do not know what
it can mean. I will try and describe to you
what I saw in the heavens. I thought it was
evening and I was out looking at the stars, all
at once I saw something moving in the sky,
I watched it until it formed a circle, and in
this circle was inscribed, "God and 1888, or 7 or
5," I cannot tell which, but it was one of these
three. I called my mother, she came and we
watched together, and outside this circle other
circles formed until there was a large complete
diagram as it were, interlined regularly at in-
tervals. It seemed to cover a place larger than
our house. I started to call my husband and
others to look, when my mother said hush!
the Lord is coming and we have no oil in the
lamp, and I said, oh mother what have I done
that I feel so bad, and my mother said again
hush! the Lord is coming, and this means
worlds without end; and as we stood there,
reading seemed to form all over the circles
formed in this diagram, in red and brown col-
ors. And then I dreamed I went into the
house and woke the folks up, and felt so bad
because there was no oil, and the sky all seem-
ed to become a dark brown with a border of
red, and to come closer and closer to the earth
or to us, and it covered the whole wide canopy
of the skies with reading all over it. Then I
heard the sweetest singing I ever heard in all
my life, and mother saying "The end is near,
the Lord cometh worlds without end;" and I
awoke. At first I could have told what all the
figures were, but I cannot remember them
now. I would like to know if it is a warning,
or what it means.

	MARY L. M. HANSEN


HOME AFFAIRS.

	CORRECTION.—In a former issue the report
of the Manti Relief Society investing two
hundred thousand dollars in starting a small
store, should have read two hundred dollars.
	WE HAVE many articles contributed to our
columns that we had not room to publish in
the present number. We cordially thank our
contributors for their favors and hope to merit
their future efforts.
	WE ANTICIPATED furnishing an article for
this issue giving our ideas on Surplus Women,
but had not space, so must defer it until Jan 15.
It is a subject which has many bearings and
ought to be fully descanted upon: We would
be glad to hear from some of our correspond-
ents on this subject.
	A HAPPY NEW YEAR to our patrons and
friends and especially the little folks. The
Centennial Christmas has come and gone, and
the people have feasted, and rejoiced in the
song and dance, and in the various amuse-
ments which characterize the "Winter Holi-
days." For this people there seems to have
been an abundance of good things and to spare.
Surely those upon whom prosperity has lav-
ished her bounties have bestowed liberally and
made glad the hearts of the poor. A univer-
sal song and prayer of gratitude should arise
from all hearts to the Most High, who has
caused the earth to yield rich harvests, yea,
"the desert to blossom as the rose." If the
saints forget the Giver in the day of prosperity,
He will not lend a listening ear in the day of
adversity.


DESTITUTION IN SCRANTON, PA.

 	        HUNGER AND DISTRESS AMONG
			THE UNEMPLOYED. 

	     FEARS OF FAMINE ENTERTAINED. 

	The condition of affairs among the poor peo-
ple of the coal regions is assuming an alarm-
ing aspect. Thousands, who have neither work
nor bread, nor the prospect of obtaining any
for themselves and families, are on the verge
of starvation and do not know what to do or
which way to turn. The destitution is wide-
spread and distressing and is not confined to
the laboring classes alone, as there are num-
bers of skilled mechanics who have been idle
for many months and whose little store has
long since been exhausted. There are hun-
dreds of families in and about Scranton, and
not in this city alone, but in every settlement
throughout the coal regions, who do not know
where to get to-day's dinner, and who would
be shivering by cheerless firesides were it not
for the heaps of coal dust that lie scattered
along the valley and from which they draw
their supply of fuel, such as it is. So many
poor people, or such intense downright despair-
ing distress has not been seen in this section
of the country for many years. It is actually
painful to witness the want and sorrow extant.


[COLUMN 1]

Unlike the great cities, toward which the
wretched of all classes tend and in which pov-
erty is seen at all periods, the towns of the in-
terior are generally free from any considerable
share of needy people in prosperous times, but
a change has come over the land, and men who
a year ago would deem it a disgrace to ask for
assistance under any circumstances, are abso-
lutely famishing for the ordinary necessities of
life. Mechanics, too, men in receipt of wages
varying from $2.50 to $3.50 per day at the open-
ing of the Centennial year, are now reduced to
the verge of pauperism, anxious to earn fifty
cents a day if they can get anything to do.
		MEETING OF THE DISTRESSED.
	They talk easily of their distress and no
longer make any effort to hide their poverty,
and at a meeting of their number held the oth-
er night, asking the city authorities to furnish
them with work and bread, some sad stories
were related. The pitiable pictures presented
at their homes are touching, and in some in-
stances would wring tears from the most cal-
lous heart. It is a sad spectacle to see a bro-
ken spirited husband in the midst of his little,
feeble family, for which he is unable to pro-
vide bread, even though their appeals are like
so many daggers to his heart. The patient
mothers invariably seek to stifle their own
grief, and whenever I have called they have
endeavored to hide the poignant features of
their sorrows. But the wan face, and prema-
turely old and haggard looks have told a story
that the eloquence of the sweetest voice could
not gainsay. It is remarkable how patient in
most cases the women have shown themselves
wherever I have been. In the same homes
where despairing men raved incoherently and
cursed corporations and the government, as
well as their own bitter fate there was an air of
quiet resignation and meek submission on the
faces of the women, that was truly heroic. It
is the fact that women endure more in any
great ordeal and endure it better. Where a
burly man will go howling about with a big
sorrow, showing it to his neighbors, a little
woman will set her face against fate and hide
it in her breast. The sorrows that kill men
only bring out the sweetest, noblest natures of
women.
		INDUSTRIES IDLE.
	Various industries of the city are idle, and
will continue so for many months to come.
The extensive iron and steel works of the
Lackawanna Iron and Coal Company, upon
which the poor of Shanty Hill, a thickly pop-
ulated portion of the city, are dependent for
the means of support, have suspended opera-
tion until the 1st of March, and, as a conse-
quence their employees, who at the best of
times found it a difficult matter to sustain
themselves; are fairly dismayed and disheart-
ened at the gloomy prospect. Pinching, pallid
poverty sits by many a fireside to-day, and the
indications are that the coming Christmas
will be the saddest ever experienced in the an-
thracite coal regions of Pennsylvania.
		THE BITTER COLD.
	The recent heavy fall of snow and accom-
panying bitter cold have made the situation
felt more keenly, and the scantily clad and
starving people are reduced to the lowest
depths of despair with not a single ray of hope
in the immediate future to light their footsteps
along the dismal and weary way. The coal
industry, too, has recently been falling off,
and in many of our settlements mining has
been suspended altogether. Merchants and
small dealers who were wont to encourage the
miners and laborers from time to time with
credit, are compelled to refuse them now for

[COLUMN 2]

their self-protection, and this superadds to
their sorrow and intensifies the bitterness of
their cheerless and unhappy lot.—Sunday
Free Press.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		117


[Column 1]
		A WIDOW'S PARTY.

			S.L. CITY, July, 1876.
						16th Ward.
	Opened by singing, "The Spirit of God
like a fire is burning." Prayer, by Bro.
Riser. Singing, "We thank thee, O God
for a prophet." Bishop Kesler then made
remarks, expressing his pleasure in meet-
ing with a company of this kind. All pres-
ent are widows with but one or two excep-
tions, and yet not over half of those who
reside in the ward are here. He had never
met on an occasion of this kind before and
it brought a great many reflections to his
mind. Many of the partners of these
sisters had stood by his side and labored for
the cause of Zion. The Lord has a great
work to do in this dispensation; He called
Joseph Smith to do a mighty work. These
sisters husbands, when living, spent a por-
tion of their lives in this work. God has
set up His kingdom as Daniel saw, and the
honest in heart are being gathered from all
portions of the earth, and great is the work
to be performed in connection with our
dead. The wicked will be wasted away
and cut off from the earth, and some of
them are our relatives by blood, and they
cannot be brought out of prison until they
have "paid the uttermost farthing." To
look at this in one way it seems hard, yet
if we view it in another light, it is all right.
In Noah's day the people would not accept
the gospel and were destroyed, but Jesus
went and preached to them in prison, show-
ing that there is an opportunity for pardon
after death, providing the unpardonable sin
has not been committed. We can also be
baptized for our relatives as far as we can
trace their geneaology, and there will be a
great work during the Millennium. And
my sisters your husbands have gone to per-
form a portion of this work. Bro. Brigham
has said when the Temple is built, angels
will come to it and bring the names of those
who wish us to be baptized for them; then
we shall know who are willing to obey the
gospel and we shall in reality be "Saviors
on Mount Zion. What a blessing it is that
we have the privilege to gain celestial glory.
All will not attain it, because they will not
accept the terms; but all will get a reward
according to their works.
	I rejoice that the day has come for the
Lamanites to obey the gospel; and he hoped
the day would soon come when our ene-
mies would have no power over the saints.
	We have met together to-day to have a
social party and to be instructed. We all
carry an influence with us wherever we go
either for good or evil, and we should set
an example in everything as Saints of God
and bind up the broken-hearted and com-
fort those who mourn; it is our duty to do it;
and not seek to pull each other down, and
then trample upon the weak and fallen. I
can realize our surroundings to some extent;
the evil spirits are trying to lead us from
the straight and narrow path, and decoy us
from our duties and they will continue to
try until we are tried as Abraham was; he
was tried as close as was possible for mor-
tal to endure; have any of us been tried
equal to that? The Savior was tried, He
went through the most trying ordeals He
was a wanderer on the earth, and he passed
through these trials in poverty; but as Paul
said "if in this life only we have hope, we
are of all men most miserable." We have

[Column 2]
been cast out from among the world but the
Lord has been with us, and will continue to
be if we are faithful. Many of you sisters
will soon pass through the veil and meet
your husbands, what a joyful meeting that
will be.
	The Lord is very merciful to us, and looks
over many of our weaknesses; and the best
way is for us to be prayerful and do our duty
in all things, both to the living and the
dead. The judgments of God are being
poured out upon the nations; you have only
to read the news to be aware of it; there
will be many calamities this year, and they
will still grow worse; but the Saints should
rejoice for the work of God is progressing,
and the righteous will go onward and build
a Temple unto the Lord, and His glory will
rest upon it for He has promised it.
	You widows may ask what can we do?
Why you can prepare to meet your hus-
bands behind the veil, and let your wills be
swallowed up in the will of God; we have
got to do it before we can come into His
presence. Pray as the Savior prayed, he
prayed and wept too. Call your families to-
gether to pray, and observe the Sabbath
day and not speak evil of your neighbors.
We all have failings, but there is a balm in
the gospel for every ill. Keep the Word
of Wisdom, and observe the duties of to-
day, and not let the sun go down before
we have faithfully fullfilled our daily du-
ties, thus we will be saved each day.
	I exhort you to do these things, so that
you may meet your husbands and Father in
heaven. This is my best wish for you in
the name of Jesus.
	Brother Riser said: I am pleased to meet
with you on this occasion. It is our privi-
lege to meet together often, for we need to
be reminded of things that we would for-
get otherwise; our vision will be extended
if we live in the light of the spirit of the
Gospel. There is a crisis near at hand, and
already men's hearts begin to fail them, the
world has gone to the extreme with wick-
edness, and unless we are faithful we will
not be prepared for what is coming. He re-
lated considerable of his experience both
before and after embracing the gospel, and
bore a faithful testimony to its truth, and
the healing power which he had seen mani-
fested. Said he never regretted the step
he had taken in obeying the gospel. The
prize of eternal life is before the Saints and
if we pursue the path our Bishop has
marked out, we shall be able to meet our
faithful friends who have gone before us.
	I ask God to bless you all in the name of
Jesus, amen.
	Benediction by Brother Riser.
	All present then partook of refreshments
which had been bountifully prepared for
this special occasion, and the season spent
together was one of peaceful enjoyment.
	The company then adjourned to meet 
again.		SARAH CUMBERLAND
								Sec'y.


TO THE LACE MAKERS:—Those who
wish to purchase bobbins for lace making,
can obtain them by sending orders to Mrs.
E. Davis, "Woman's Commission House,"
S. L. City. Bro. Crompton, a bobbin maker
from England, will be ready to fill all or-
ders at a low figure.


ANNA Dickenson seems to have been
warmly applauded in her recent appearance
upon the stage in St. Louis, yet she is se-
verely criticized by newspaper writers and
journalists; they have an idea that she is
too much herself, and does not give suffi-
cient dramatic effect.


118		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	MORE EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS
			FROM HAWAII.

			LAIE. Oahu, Sept. 30, 1876.
	I have been standing on the porch to-
night looking toward the loved home of my
many, many dear friends and associates and
thinking of the great water lying between
us, and the many changes which may per-
haps take place before we meet again. We
are well and feeling in excellent spirits,
with good feelings toward all mankind. I
am teaching the Laie school, have thirty
odd pupils who seem to be learning very
fast; I am also a pupil learning their lan-
guage, and I fear not a very apt one, "aka
hoas mau" (but I continue to try). Millie
talks very good for the time she has been
here, is quite contented and appears very
much like a native. I like the natives
much better than I imagined I should; they
are very kind to me; and take great pains
in teaching me their language.
	I have had quite an experience since I
come here. I was eye-witness at a death-
scene which took place shortly after our ar-
rival. I had called to take a sick woman
some rice, thinking something nourishing
like that would be relished. I saw she was
struck with death, and told her husband as
much. I had not been in the house more
than half an hour when she breathed her
last, as quietly as if going to sleep; I closed
her eyes and tied her chin, and looked to
see what her parents were doing when a na-
tive sister came up to me with a shroud
which they had been busy preparing against
her death. I assisted in putting it on, and
spread a beautiful "kapa" to lay her on (her
husband never leaving her side;) when all
was ready for her to be seen by her friends,
as many were gathered, I stood looking at
the corpse, when I was almost raised from
floor to ceiling by the most dreadful wailing
I ever heard. I gave one glance about the
room and saw how fast it was filling with
mourners, and will leave you to imagine
how long I was getting home, which is
about a quarter of a mile. They keep their
wailing and feasting up all night. I had
forgotten to tell you that they always pre-
pare a great feast in honor of the dead.
	I have also been a guest at a grand wed-
ding, had the pleasure of eating with the
bride and groom. The food consisted of
"poi" pork and beef, which all ate with a
relish, using fingers instead of knives and
forks.
	I enjoy myself in many ways here, but
nothing compares with our mountain home.
					Sunday, Oct. 1st.
	We have been on the Island four months
to-day. We arrived on the 1st of June, after
seven and a half days at sea. We enjoyed
ourselves a great deal in the same way as
many of our friends before us, by being very
liberal to the sharks. I was very sick the
first three days, in fact I was quite misera-
ble until we landed. We were well provid-
ed with everything for our comfort and one
of the best stewardesses; she was like a
mother to me. I have been to meeting the
most of the day; it is our fast day; we hold
it the first Sunday in each month.
	I want to tell you of our ride in the hills
yesterday, thinking it will show you a lit-
tle how we feel. Brothers Wooley, Molen,
and wives with children, on horse back, took
picnic and went up in the canon to get a
breath of fresh air. We rode native style,
(now don't laugh) as it was safer; riding
over rocks and brush, over hills that looked
impossible for horses to travel, but we found
a nice cool place and better than all a cool

[Column 2]
spring of water. We took with us papers
from home, and read, visited, ate, and some
of us slept, but not your correspondent.
	We are living at the Plantation house. I
am chief cook and house cleaner; I am kept
very busy teaching and keeping house, and
find very few idle moments. My health is
much better here than at home. I believe
I could eat my rations of Irish potatoes, and
pork, beans and cabbage, had I the chance.
Not wishing you to think I suffer at all, for
we live good enough, and what we have we
relish, I can eat quite a meal of meat and
"poi"; we try to have flour on hand all the
time. I will have quite a yarn to spin when
I get home.
	I begin to think we as a people do not
know how to appreciate comforts when we
have them.
						Oct. 7th.
	This is the second day of Conference. I
thought as the mail would leave in the
morning I would finish, I will not be able
to give you the news of to-morrow. I do
not know where Simpson's lot will be cast
in this missionary labor. Bros. Lambert and
Stringam have not been able to get here
for Conference on account of high winds,
which has caused quite a disappointment.
The natives are turning out well and seem
to enjoy the spirit of the Lord. Their fa-
ces glow when they sit and hear our breth-
ren talk. I think this mission has a com-
pany of as good men as you generally come
across. I do think the young men here
have been faithful and performed a good
long mission, and when they get their re-
lease they will not feel to complain.
	Please remember me with much love to
all my friends and acquaintances, not for-
getting Sister Wells and family. Tell Un-
cle Charles I want his prayers now, more
than ever. I am very tired now; there are
eight of our good folks stopping with us,
beside our own family. Bro. Richards
boards with us when at Laie.
	Remember me to all. I will re[---]e as it is
after ten o'clock. Good night, a [-]pleasant
dreams.				JANE E. MOLEN.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Baked Omelet.—Boil half a pint of cream, or
rich milk; beat six eggs thoroughly—they will be
nicer if the whites and yelks are beaten separate-
ly; have a deep dish hot and buttered; stir the
beaten eggs, with a little salt, into the cream; put
all quickly into the dish, and bake from five to ten
minutes, depending upon the condition of the oven.
It should be lightly browned, and taken directly
to the table in the dish.
	Scalloped Oysters.—Have ready an earthen
baking-dish well buttered, sprinkle in a layer of
rolled crackers, then a layer of good fat oysters, a
little pepper, salt, and bits of butter, another
layer of crackers, another of oysters, then sea-
soning as before, and so on until the dish is filled;
have the top covered with crackers; turn over it a
cup of the oyster liquor. Set it in the oven for
thirty or forty minutes.
	Suet Pudding.—To two coffee cups of flour with
a heaping teaspoonful of baking powder stirred
thoroughly through it, add one coffee cup of finely
chopped suet, one teaspoonful of salt; one well-
beaten egg; one pint of sweet milk. Grease a
tin pail, pour the mixture into it, cover, set it in a
kettle of boiling water, and let it boil constantly
two hours. Renew the water as it evaporates with
boiling water from the teakettle. Send to the ta-
ble hot. Serve with wine sauce, or lemon sauce.
	Children's Pudding.—Fill and earthen baking-
dish with finely chopped apples. Season with
sugar and nutmeg; add a little water. Set it on
the back of the range until the apples are tender.
Then make a crust of one teacup of sweet milk,
one tablespoonful of butter, a little salt, one tea-
spoonful of baking powder, flour enough to roll
out. Lay the crust on top of the apples and
bake. To be eaten hot with sweet sauce, flavored
with lemon or vanilla. Other kinds of fruit may
be used in the same manner.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	For Wakefulness at Night.—Take about 20
grains of carbonate of soda in half a glass of wa-
ter before going to bed. The best remedies are
hygiene diet, cold water, exercise, brisk walking
and gymnastic exercise for half an hour before go-
ing to bed.
	To Cure a Felon.—As soon as the part begins
to swell, wrap the part with a cloth thoroughly
saturated with tincture of lobelia, and the felon is
dead. It is said this never fails to cure if applied
in season.
	Another: The following simple remedy is said
by an exchange to be a sure cure. Take common
rock salt, dry it in an oven, then pound it fine and
mix it with spirits of turpentine in equal parts.
Put it on a rag and wrap it round the finger, and
as it gets dry put on some more, and in twenty-
four hours we are assured the felon will be dead.
	And Another: Take half a gill of strong vine-
gar, dissolve in it a teaspoonful or more of salera-
tus; heat it as hot as the flesh can bear; soak the
felon in it as long as desirable. Repeat the ap-
plication as often as the pain returns, and a cure is
certain. This remedy must be applied in the first
stages, as it is of no avail after the finger is greatly
swollen.
	Insanity.—The principal causes of insanity are
the result of an inordinate mode of living, eating
and drinking those articles which coagulate the
blood, and consume the natural forces; and also
the effect of medicines, which have for the last
half century been taken into the human system


under all circumstances. Study the emanations of
physical laws and adhere to the requirements of
the circulating medium, which moves the wheel of
life and carries in its force of action the finer ele-
ments thrown upon the tissues of the brain. If
this circulation becomes impeded, especially through
the brain, it creates an obstruction which destroys
the equillibrium, and insanity must ensue in a
greater cr less degree. Opiates and other concen-
trated medicines, which are now so freely used
are often the cause of insanity. It is possible for
insanity to be brought on by suffering, but unless
the brain had previously become diseased from
some other cause, I am inclined to think physical
force would succumb to suffering before the intel-
lect. Live in accordance with the finer elements
of life and health, and then nature will sway the
sceptre of her utmost power.
						Mrs. C. Van Cort.


PARAGRAPH FROM A GENTILE
LADY'S LETTER.

TO MRS. M. A. BOISE, ONEIDA CO.,
IDAHO.

	I get the WOMAN'S EXPONENT regularly,
and tongue can not express the thanks I
have to offer you for sending me such a val-
uable paper. You cannot know what solid
comfort I take in reading it. I see the util-
ity of your good Relief Societies there in
the Mormon Church. Where is there an-
other church where the women work for
each other's benefit like the women of
Utah? This paper is, in a great measure,
removing the prejudice from some who
thought that there was no good among the
Mormons.
	HARRIET M. PURVINES.
Petersburg, III., Dec. 15, 1876.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		110


[Column 1]
			WOMAN'S VOICE.

						Dec. 14, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	According to your request I write to in-
form you of the feeling existing in our set-
tlement in regard to the Grain Question.
We feel with the rest of our sisters to obey
counsel; we have met together and talked
upon the subject, we intend to take meas-
ures to secure some grain, if not much; we
have not a great deal in our settlement; we
were visited by early frost which cut our
crops short. We feel to make some united
effort, and do all we possibly can, then leave
the result to the Lord. I will write to you
again after we have ascertained or decided
what we can do under the circumstances.
	I remain your sister in the Gospel,
					ELIZABETH CLARKE.
	Weston, Oneida Co., Idaho.

			SALEM, UTAH, Dec. 17, 1876.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	The EXPONENT becomes more interesting
as it grows older, particularly the last num-
ber excels all the rest. I do not wish to
miss one number as I have taken it from
the first. It makes my heart feel thankful
to God when I read the doings of the sis-
ters, and may God bless them in their
glorious undertaking, and when gaunt hun-
ger stalks abroad may their bins be over-
flowing that none may call in vain on them
for assistance.
	Success to the EXPONENT, and all con-
nected with it is the constant prayer of
your sister in the Gospel,
				MATILDA. P. KILLIAN.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Amid the cogitations of my mind I have
dwelt with amazement on the title which
has been placed upon the societies of wo-
men. The word Relief fills my soul with
reflections such as how shall I with dignity
fill such a responsible calling; viz., to make
my home comfortable, to make those going
from home happy and contented, relieving
the wants of a large family circle in sick-
ness or trouble; responding to the require-
ments of my husband in his every day busi-
ness, and instructing the household that
they be economical and discharge their du-
ties faithfully, so as to relieve the father
and husband of unecessary costs etc; and if
I think I will while away an hour or two in
gossip, and rest my mind a little, just then
my attention is called to one who is in need
of relief, perhaps sick, or in trouble or des-
titute of the comforts of life, that perhaps
I may relieve a little in word or deed; then
I must omit my anticipated gossiping, con-
sequently I fear I shall not be posted in my
neighbors business, and the interesting
chit chat, which the Apostle James tells
us about in giving his description of the
tongue, will have to be put off. Then
comes a paper, perhaps the EXPONENT, of
course I am anxious to read that, here I find
reports from the several branches of the Re-
lief Society which are organized and set
apart to relieve the wants of the afflicted,
and those who are unfortunate and down-
cast. And as I have a responsible calling
in this Relief Association, I ask myself,
how shall I honor this calling? I must
cease to portray and represent the weak-
nesses of others, I will not assist to bind
down the broken hearted, I must not be
hasty in giving my decision on hearing a
rumor, as they often arise from misunder-
standings only, while a hasty reply is the
cause of many difficulties; nor will I say

[Column 2]
that the commandment of saving grain,
given by our honorable president is a spec-
ulative one, but rather will I say I have
been a participant of hard times in the past
and will exert my energies with those of
my sisters who are trying to make better
the future. In this life-giving counsel, we
have a chance to exhibit relief beyond our
present comprehension. I am happy to say
that our honorable bishop and others of the
brethren are willing to assist us in procur-
ing and storing away grain, and we as a lit-
tle band of sisters are united in this sub-
lime matter; and let us chime in together
with the poem: "Hard times, Hard times
come again no more."
	With congratulation, I am
					Yours Truly,
							M. A. BOICE.
	Oxford, Dec. 2, 1876.


CHURCH HISTORIAN'S OFFICE,
	Dec. 19, 1876.

To Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith, E. R.
	Snow, and all others who contributed in
	any way to the present to the Historian's
	Office:

	Please to accept of our hearty thanks and
gratitude for your Christmas present to our
office, in the shape of a handsome home-
made carpet. Wishing you every blessing
the Almighty can bestow, together with a
Merry Christmas and Happy New Year,
	ORSON PRATT, Sen.,
	GUS M. CLARKE,
	JOAN M. CAMPBELL


HUMILITY.

	Humility is the subject before the meet-
ing, and it is very important that we study
and reflect so that we may comprehend it
in its true light. We should all live hum-
ble and prayerful that the spirit of God
may dwell in our bosoms, and so that there
be nothing to grieve it from us. The Lord
says "if ye are not as humble as little
children ye can in no wise enter the king-
dom of heaven." Then let us examine our-
selves and see if we are sufficiently humble
and that we remember His words, for the
Lord means just what He says. He is the
same yesterday, to-day and forever. How
shall we then keep this spirit of humility
with us? Will it be by neglecting our du-
ties and by forgetting God and letting our
thoughts be carried away with worldly
things? No! I think not. We must seek
the Lord often in earnest prayer, and ask
Him to endow us with that spirit of meek-
ness that will bring to our hearts true joy
and lasting happiness. We know that God
is no respecter of persons, but acknowledges
every honest heart, no matter whether the
possessor dwells in a hut or a palace. Our
Father in heaven knows our motives and
desires, and is not pleased with outward
display.
	We are striving to assist in advancing
the kingdom of God on the earth, and we
cannot do this except we cherish this spirit
of humility. Then my sisters let it be our
aim to serve the Lord with all our might,
mind and strength if we expect to be num-
bered with the chosen. We cannot serve
the Lord with one hand and Satan with the
other. We must be saints in very deed.
Our whole souls must be in the work, other-
wise we can accomplish but very little good.
It will not do to say we will accept this and
reject that. True saints must embrace
every principle pertaining to salvation, ad-
vanced by the servants of God, and try to


live in accordance with the same. There
is nothing too hard for us to do in order
that we may obtain our exaltation. God re-
quires nothing of His children that they
are not able to perform, but we must be
determined, and pray for strength and it
will be given us. The Lord is very merci-
ful; He is always more willing to bestow
than we are to receive and obey. Our re-
ligion brings to us sweet and holy feelings
and we will obtain eternal life through its
teachings if we seek for it truly, and is it
not worth working for, and enduring all the
little trials of this life?
	Let us be obedient to those who are
placed over us, and the Lord will bless us;
and especially let us carry out the wishes of
our president, and do all we can to encour-
age her, and sustain her with our faith and
prayers. We have a glorious work to ac-
complish here below. We each have a
mission to perfect ourselves, and prepare
for the great hereafter.
	Sisters let us then be united, for in unity
there is strength. Let us sustain each oth-
er and devote all our time and talents to
the building up of the kingdom of God, so
that we may have His spirit at all times.
					JOSEPHINE MYER.
	11th Ward Relief Association, Sept., 1876.


VERDI thus describes the fashion in
which he composes: "I first study thor-
oughly the characters of the dramatis per-
sonae. Then I commit the libretto to mem-
ory, and, girding myself for the task, work
away for eight or nine months, and more
if necessary, until the opera is completed.
Meanwhile I only live in my imagination;
hence my irritability, ill-humor, and inciv-
ility; for, though I am a bear by nature, at
such times I become more of a bear than
ever." Verdi rarely attends the theatre,
especially the opera. It is said that he nev-
er witnessed the representation of his
"Ballo in Maschera" until ten years after
its first appearance upon the stage. A man
of culture, he is a connoisseur in art, is
thoroughly versed in Italian, French and
Spanish literature, and is familiar with the
best German and English authors. He has
frequent recourse to the original source of
his inspiration, the Bible. Though he styles
himself a "bear," and often alludes with a
spice of pleasantry to his peasant birth, he
is courteous though simple in his manners,
easy and fluent in his conversation, and per-
sonally a great favorite among his more in-
timate friends. A Senator of the Kingdom,
he betrays no ambition to shine as a parlia-
mentary leader.


When Professor Aytoun was making pro-
posals of marriage to his first wife, a daugh-
ter of the celebrated Professor Wilson, the
lady reminded him that it would be neces-
sary to ask the approval of her sire.
	"Certainly," said Aytoun; "but as I am a
little diffident in speaking to him on this
subject, you must just go and tell him my
proposals yourself."
	The lady proceeded to the library, and
taking her father affectionately by the
hand, mentioned that Professor Aytoun had
asked her to become his wife. She added,
"Shall I accept his offer papa? He says he
is too diffident to name the subject to you-
himself."
	"Then" said old Christopher, "I had bet-
ter write my reply and pin it to your back."
He did so, and the lady returned to the
drawing-room. There the anxious suitor
read the answer to his message, which was
in these words: "With the author's compli-
ments."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	"I THINK I will have Autumn leaves on
my new hat," said she. "I am glad of it,"
said he, "for Autumn leaves are falling."
	A would-be gentleman, the other day,
called at the post-office, and displayed his
ignorance of natural history or the French
language, or both, by requesting to be sup-
plied with a stamped antelope!
	UNEXPECTED HARMONY.—He was carv-
ing at dinner, and thought he must talk to
the aesthetic-looking angel on his right.
"How do you like Beethoven?" asked he,
at a venture. "Well done," said she
promptly, interested in the business at
hand.
	It was sometimes the custom of the poet
Wordsworth to ramble about the country in
his neighborhood composing poems aloud.
The estimate placed on that sort of thing
by those of the vicinity may appear by the
answer of a poor man who was breaking
stones on the Rydal road. A gentleman
who knew both him and Wordsworth found
him at work one day, and greeted him
with, "Good morning, John. What news
have you this morning?"
	"Why, nothing very particular, only old
Wordsworth's broken loose again."
	And when the poet died, a sympathizing
neighbor suggested, as an alleviation for
the affliction, that "the mistress is a clever-
ish sort of body, I reckon she can carry on
the business."


LANGUAGE OF FINGER-RINGS—In case
of a gentleman wishing to marry—literally
in the market with his heart—he wears a
plain or chased gold ring upon the first fin-
ger of the left or heart hand. When suc-
cess attends his suit, and he is actually en-
gaged, the ring passes to the second finger.
After marriage it passes to the third finger.
If, however, the gentleman desires to tell
the fair ones that he not only is not "in the
market," but does not design to marry at
all; he wears the signet upon his little fin-
ger, and all ladies may understand that he
is out of their reach. With the fair sex
the "laws of the ring" are: A plain or chased
gold ring on the little finger of the right
hand implies "not engaged," or in plainer
words, "ready for proposals, sealed or other-
wise." When engaged, the ring passes to
the third finger of the right hand. When
married, the third finger of the left hand
receives it. If the fair one proposes to defy
all seige to her heart, she passes the rings
on her first and fourth fingers—one on each
—like two charms to keep away the tempt-
er. It is somewhat singular that this dis-
position of rings is rare,


THOMAS C. JONES, of Salt Lake City,
brush maker, requests the people of Utah
who are killing pigs this winter to save the
bristles, and when they come to the city be
so kind as to bring them and leave them
with David Hilton, butcher, at the Tithing
Office. Bro. Jones can't give pay for them
as the work of preparing them will not af-
ford it, and so asks it as a favor.


[Column 1]
	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.
[Column 2]
WOOLCOTT'S
		PAIN PAINT
					IS THE
GREAT HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
For Inflammation, Fever or Heat. Does not
burn, smart or color the skin, and requires
	no rubbing. Recommended for all
		Eruptive Diseases, Rheumatism,
			Bruises, Wounds, Colds,
				Fros[-]ed Feet, &c.
PRICE FIFTY CENTS!
		Hundreds of References in Salt Lake City.

	The Ogden Junction says: "Pain Paint is a wonderful
remedy and ought to be widely known."
	☞ A HOME PREPARATION ☜
	ONLY CITY AGENCIES—11th and 15th Ward Co-op
St[-]re, Des[-]ret Bakery, Main Street, Morgan's 7th Ward
[-]o[-]pe[-]'s, 17th Ward( and Woman's Commission House.

				AGENTS WANTED.
	No Capital but Bishop's Recommend required. Ad-
dress this office.

		WOMAN'S
COMMISSION HOUSE
		IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOOLEN GOODS,
				SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
			LADIES JACKETS,
				STOCKINGS, YARNS,
			SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
LATEST STYLES OF FANCY WORSTED TIES,
	Men's Knitted Undershirts,
	DAMASK BED SPREADS,
	Rag Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy
Articles, Shoes, Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brush-
es, Brooms, Butter, Cheese, Eggs, Flour, Can-
ned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vinegar,
Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bu-
reaus, Spool Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps,
Ink, Shoe Blacking, Concentrated Lye, Silver
Plating, Pottery Ware, Clothes Pins, Neats
Foot Oil, Glue.
			ALSO A VARIETY OF
MEDICINES,
			INCLUDING
	D. Huntington's Celebrated
INDIAN REMEDIES!
			AND THE
	Oil of Artemisia,
		OR WILD SAGE.

	PAIN PAINT.

Medicines from Dr. Crockwell's Dispenstay,
	SARAS SALVE, Etc.
Also a Variety of Books,
		AL OF
HOME MANUFACTURE.

[Column 3]
DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
					17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
