VOL. 5.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1876.	No.10


NEVER GIVE UP.

SELECTED.

Never give up! It is wiser and better
	Always to hope than once to despair;
Fling off the load of doubt's cankering fetter,
	And break off the spell of tyrannical care.
Never give up! Or the burden may sink you;
	Providence kindly has mingled the cup:
And in all trials or troubles bethink you,
	The watchword of life must be "Never give up."

Never give up! There are chances and changes
	Helping the hopeful a hundred to one:
And, through the chaos, high wisdom arranges
	Ever success if you'll ever hope on.
Never give up! for the wisest is boldest,
	Knowing that Providence mingles the cup;
And of all maxims, the best, as the oldest,
	Is the true watchword of "Never give up!"

Never give up, though the grape-shot may rattle,
	Or the thunder-cloud over you burst:
Stand like a rock, and the storm or the battle
	Little shall harm you, though doing their worst.
Never give up! if adversity presses,
	Providence wisely has mingled the cup;
And the best counsel in all your distresses,
	Is the stout watchword of "Never give up.


[COLUMN 1]

OUR HOME HERE AND HEREAFTER.

	Let us imagine 'tis Spring! and every-
thing is bright and beautiful: all living
things are filled with new life and vigor.
Man, the noblest work of God, is light-
hearted and happy, ready to commence
another year of labor. The birds are
singing, bees are humming, and the
innumerable voices of life are listened
to with thankfulness to our Maker. Homes
of every description are being built by the
various inhabitants of the earth; the sky is
a deep, clear blue, free from all clouds, and
the sun that has been hidden for so long
now shines forth in all his glory, casting his
warm rays upon the damp earth, causing
vegetation to spring forth; the trees that
have been bare for so long are undergoing
a change preparatory to regaining their
rich foliage and verdure; the brooks and
rivers are filled and gushing over with clear
sparkling water, and all nature seems fresh
and new. Time rolls on. Summer takes
the place of spring, all nature is in its ma-
tured state, and every thing at its height,
and we experience all the pleasure and
buoyancy which summer brings to the ad-
mirer of nature's perfection; this passes by
and gives way to Autumn, the busiest of
all seasons; the fresh green verdure which
looks so cool and pleasant has undergone a
change; bright, brilliant hues have taken
the place of the green foliage and shrubbery,
and when looking at them we know it is
the brightening up before death, that it is
near the time of decay for them; rich, lus-
cious fruit weighs down the branches of the
trees, the grasses are withering and the
leaves are falling; it is at this season we
have our glorious sunsets, when it seems as
if the whole heavens were illuminated, one
blaze of living light, and it occurs to us
that all inanimate nature is giving one last
heroic struggle before death. The last of
the successive seasons is winter; black
clouds are heaped up in the sky, the winds
are whistling and the frost is biting, but is
this winter really cheerless and cold to us?
No, if we have warm, comfortable homes, are

[COLUMN 2]

surrounded by friends, and above all if we
have warm hearts; it is then that friends
and families have most opportunity of con-
versational intercourse with each other, ex-
changing visits, and enjoying each other's
society at home and around the fireside; it
is then that we should use every effort to
make our homes pleasant and happy, so
that everything will be bright and cheerful
within, no matter how cold and cheerless
without; it is then we can most fully enjoy
the profits of our former labor; this is the
earthly home our Father gives temporarily,
in order to protect ourselves from the tem-
pest; we build structures or houses, and
consequently shut out the beauties of nature
it is therefore necessary that we should
beautify the interior of our dwellings; there
are a variety of ways in which we can do it
and benefit ourselves. Do not our lives
compare with that of nature? The life of
mankind upon the earth compares well with
the variety of nature's seasons. We are
sent upon earth, to do a certain work;
why should we not do that work uncom-
plainingly and grow up good, strong and
wise men, and women so that our Father
would be proud of us? The farmer who
plants his trees is proud of those that with-
stand all the tests of the elements, and
grow up to be large and stalwart, and speaks
of those that wither and become dwarfed
and ugly as not of much worth, perhaps we
are judged likewise.
	If we live faithfully through the Spring,
Summer and Fall of our lives, according to
the dictation of our heavenly Father, the end
will be as our home in winter and warm
within we will be ready to meet our Father
with a clear conscience and unblushing faces,
and we will know we are worthy of holding a
high position in the kingdom of God, for
He will be pleased with us, and we will be
rewarded according to our works.
	M. M.


BOOKS FOR A HOME.

	Books are not made for furniture, but
there is nothing else that so beautifully
furnishes a house. The plainest row of
books is more significant of refinement
than the most elaborately carved side-board.
Give us a home furnished with books rather
than furniture. Both, if you can, but books at
any rate. To spend several days at a
friend's house and hunger for something to
read, while you are treading on costly car-
pets and sitting on luxurious chairs and
sleeping upon down, is as if one were brib-
ing your body for the sake of cheating your
mind. Books are the windows through
which the soul looks out. A house without
them is like a room without windows. No
man has a right to bring up his children
without surrounding them with books, if
he has the means to buy them. It is a wrong
to his family. Children learn to read through
being in the presence of books. The love
of knowledge comes with reading and
grows upon it. And the love of knowledge
in a young mind is almost a warrant against
the inferior excitements of passion and
vice.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	ANNA DICKINSON will soon appear in
Utica in her new play, and if she isn't suc-
cessful there will be a real tragedy.
	ALBERT WELLES of the Society Library
N. Y., is about to publish "The Pedigree
and History of the Washington family.
This will be authentic.
	MR. CHARLES Francis Adams, it is said,
is as persistent in work as was ever his fa-
ther or grandfather. Though he has a car-
riage, he seldom rides, and always walks
five miles or more every day, winter or
summer.
	THE BOSTON POST considers Mrs. Lucy
Stone a very wise woman in selecting the
Democratic party to represent the interests
of Woman Suffrage, the champion in the
cause being the Hon. Richard Fothering-
ham, and agreeing all petitions to Congress
be presented by him.
	PRINCE LOUIS Lucien Bonaparte has for
many years been engaged in superintending
the translation of portions of the English
version of the Scriptures into the various
dialects spoken in England and Scotland,
and travels about Britain collecting informa-
tion about these dialects.
	THE OREGON State Woman Suffrage As-
sociation held its second special session at
Salem, Oregon, opening on Tuesday, Sep-
tember 26, closing September 29. There
were morning, afternoon and evening ses-
sions. President Mrs. H. A. Loughary.
Judging from the minutes of the conven-
tion we have read, they transacted their
business in a very parliamentary like man-
ner, and the speeches of the woman work-
ers in the cause of temperance and the bal-
lot for women were earnest, spirited and
eloquent. The speech of the President Mrs.
Loughary we would gladly publish in full
if we had space; it contains some excellent
items, full of pith and calculated to arouse
dormant energies.
	THE EIGHTH annual meeting of the Amer-
ican Woman Suffrage Association com-
menced on Monday evening Oct. 2, at Han-
del and Hadyn Hall, Philadelphia. The
Hall was filled; Mrs. Mary A. Livermore
presided and made the opening address.
She dwelt earnestly upon the Temperance
question, the benefit it would be to that
cause to have the vote of women; the many
reasons that there were, why women should
have the ballot, and the many flimsy objec-
tions that men made to prevent it. Twen-
ty-five States were represented by delegates
some of them from long distances. There
was entire harmony of feeling according
to the accounts of the proceedings, and a
spirit of encouragement in regard to Wo-
man'a future representation in the govern-
ment. The meeting was a success pecuni-
arily, and every way. Committees of dif-
ferent kinds were appointed to act in vari-
ous capacities such as are identified with
the interests of the representations of such
conventions.


To be blest with happiness we must be
beautified with holiness.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

TOOELE CITY, Sep. 25th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On Thursday, the 14th of this month, we
had the pleasure of a visit from Miss E. R.
Snow, Mrs. M. I. Horne, and Mrs. E. How-
ard. Meetings were held two days, and
some very valuable instruction was given;
the sisters had gathered from the different
settlements in Tooele County to hear the
words of life, and they were not disap-
pointed; much that was said related to cul-
tivating ourselves; that we should cultivate
our spirits as well as our bodies, that we
may become thoroughly pure and noble in
disposition and actions, so that our whole
lives may be spent in doing good. Consid-
erable was said about home manufacture
and the culture of silk. A committee was ap-
pointed to attend to the silk industry, and
the Saints were forcibly shown the neces-
sity of moving forward in all things both
temporal and spiritual.
	That heaven's choicest blessings may
rest continually upon those who labor so
faithfully for Zion, is the prayer of your
Sister,
	 EMILY WARBURTON.
		Secretary.

SANTAQUIN, Sep. 25th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our 8th Annual Meeting took place Sept.
14th, 1876. Our School House was decora-
ted for the occasion, with the HOME INDUS-
TRIES of the sisters, consisting of bed
quilts, rugs, embroidery, and crotchet work
of every description, fancy quilting, mil-
lenery, and even wooden-bottomed shoes;
but the most conspicuous of all was the
coverlets, shawls and flannel made by the
sisters in Santaquin.
	On the stand was our President, Mrs.
Elizabeth Stickney, Pres't. Jane Simonds
of Payson, with her first Counselor and
Secretary, also Presidents Mary Johnson of
Goshen, and Elizabeth Broadbent of Spring
Lake District, and Bishop George Halla-
day. Many other visitors from Payson and
Goshen were present.
	After the usual exercises of reading the
minutes, etc., the Annual report was read
by the Secretary, showing we had received
during the year.........................	$184,87
	Disbursed do....................	  125 84
	The Young Ladies' Improvement Asso-
ciation, held their 3rd Annual meeting at
the same time; their report, and also the re-
port from Spring Lake District was very
favorable.
	The meeting was addressed by Presidents
Stickney, Simonds, and Johnson; Mrs.
Douglas, Bishop Halladay, and Bro. Coombs
of Payson. All the remarks were encour-
aging, and expressive of their pleasure in
hearing our reports, and in beholding the
products of the talents of our sisters.
	Our President is a good financier, as well
as a great economist. Nothing is wasted
that can be turned to account for the benefit
of the poor. She is herself, humble, kind,
and loving, respected by all who know her,
and we wish her long to be our president.
	Wishing great success to your valuable
paper, we beg to remain yours in the new and
everlasting covenant,
	ELIZABETH J. STICKNEY, Prest.
		ELIZABETH CARTER, Sec.

EDITORS' EXPONENT:
	The Annual Meeting of the Young La-
dies Retrenchment Association of the

[COLUMN 2]

Twentieth Ward was held in the Relief
Society Hall, Sep. 13th, 1876. The leading
officers of the Senior and Junior Co-opera-
tive Association being present, also Elder
C. W. Staynes. President Mrs. Sarah How-
ard made a few opening remarks appropri-
ate to the occasion. Miss E. R. Snow then
addressed the meeting explaining the ob-
ject of these organizations etc.; said she
was present at the meeting when God,
through His Prophet commanded the intro-
duction of these organizations; said she
well remembered the occasion of the or-
ganization of this Association, and thought
we had improved our time well. She gave
good counsel and exhorted the mothers to
encourage their daughters to attend these
meetings, as great good would result there-
from. Mrs. M. I. Horne expressed her
pleasure of again having the privilege of
meeting with the sisters of the Twentieth
Ward, remembered Sister Snow making
the remark at their first meeting, that al-
though it was the last organized it would
not be the least, said she could see that
assertion had proved correct. Mrs. B.
Smith, Mrs. Persendia Kimball, Mrs Sarah
Kimball and Mrs. E. S. Barney gave ex-
cellent instructions, exhorting the young
ladies to be energetic in the pursuit of use-
ful knowledge. Elder C. W. Stayner then
spoke, explaining the responsibility that
will rest upon the young in filling import-
ant positions in preparing themselves to
guide the good ship Zion into its haven of
rest. He spoke lengthy and glowingly on
the upbuilding and future glory of Zion.
All present were greatly edified and a good
spirit prevailed.
	Report for the year ending Sept. 13th,
1876, of the Young Ladies Retrenchment
Association of the Twentieth Ward; this
association was organized Sep. 3rd., 1875,
by Miss Eliza R. Snow, with the following
ladies as officers: Mrs. Sarah Howard, Pres.,
Mrs. E. Stayner and Mrs. Isabella Glade,
Connselors, Mrs. Jane Fowler Superintend-
ent, Miss Rebecca Manning Sec. and forty-
one members. At a following meeting, Mrs.
Henrietta Simons, Mrs. Alice Simons, Miss
M. A. Sanson and Miss Janette Sharp were
elected as counselors, the two last named
ladies were also elected assistant secretar-
ies; but through unavoidable circumstances,
Miss M. A. Sanson has since resigned her
office as secretary, and Mrs. E. J. Mathews
has been appointed to fill the vacancy. We
have held regular meetings weekly and
with but few exceptions, have generally
had a good attendance. The meetings have
been very interesting and instructive, the
exercises consisting of essays, select read-
ing from church works and other good
books; and to add in bearing testimony to
the fulfillment of Sister Snows remarks,
made at our organization, there has been a
marked improvement. The society num-
bers at the present time, upwards of
150 members. A fund has been estab-
lished for the purpose of emigration, help-
ing the poor, or assisting in any good en-
terprise. Donations received for the fund,
and by a party given by the association,
amounting to $54,20, has been disbursed
for various benevolent purposes.
	President Mrs. Sarah Howard proposed
that a five cent temple fund be established
which met with a hearty approval, amount
received for said fund $5,05. It was also
proposed that we make a quilt for the ben-
efit of the fund. Received for purchasing
material for quilt $3,75.
	Total amount received........	$63 00
	Disbursements....................	  57 95

[COLUMN 3]

	In Treasury, the quilt and cash
amounting to...........................	5 05
		REBECCA WILLIAMS Sec.
	ELIZABETH MATHEWS, Ass't.

MORGAN CITY, Sept. 25, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Allow me through your columns, to add
my mite to the already large stock of news
and interesting reports you deal out to us
semi-monthly.
	Yours is a noble mission indeed, to carry
the expressions of love and gratitude from
thousands of hearts to each other, all over
Utah.
	Our little city was honored, on the 19th
inst., by a visit from two "bright stars"
from the Relief Society Constellation: Sis-
ters E. S. Barney and E. Howard, who
spoke words of instruction and comfort.
The Lord poured His Spirit on them in
such abundance that they fed our hungry
souls with the food they most needed. Their
texts were: Education, watch-care of our
girls, plural marriage, care of the sick,
word of wisdom, womanly dignity, the im-
portance of availing ourselves of the right
of the ballot, folly and extravagance of the
fashions of the day. Showing to us that
the mission of the Relief Society is not only
to relieve the poor, but to introduce and
cultivate everything that tends to the ex-
altation of woman and the saving of souls.
Seri-culture, straw-braiding, and all kinds of
home industries were highly recommended.
	We feel to bless them for their kind and
cheering words; and I say God bless our
dear Sister E. R. Snow, who presides over
these institutions.
	Your Sister, etc,
		ESTHER E. E. FRANCIS,
			Sec.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. D. W. Rogers is superintendent of
schools in Danby, Conn., and is the first
woman that ever held public office in that
town.
	MISS Helen Potter, the reader, is doing an
excellent business professionally, her in-
come for the season it is said will be about
$15,000.
	MRS. A. J. Duniway, of Portland, Oregon,
and editor of the "New North West," de-
livered an earnest and characteristic speech
at the Woman Suffrage Convention at Phil-
adelphia on taxation without representation
and other subjects.
	MISS Abbie G. Ketchum of Marshall,
Michigan, sailed from San Francisco Oct. 1,
for China, to commence missionary work in
that country. She had the congratulations
and earnest blessings of t[-]ousands to follow
her as encouragement in her labors of de-
votion and self-sacrifice.
	MISS Lydia Becker, the London advocate
of Woman suffrage, in a recent speech at
the excursion of the British Association,
gave a happy description of the visible
change and marked improvement in regard
to the position of women at society gather-
ings. On the last occasion when the British
Association had visited Glasgow, the gen-
tlemen had been invited to luncheon and
the ladies left outside, the gentlemen had
pretended to have more pleasure in toasting
the ladies in their absence, but it was real-
ly more satisfactory to respond to these
toasts in person, and contributed more to
the enjoyment of the c[-]mpany.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		75


THE WIFE TO HER HUSBAND.

		It seems to me that should I die,
And this poor body cold and lifeless lie.
And tho[-] shouldst touch my lips with thy warm breath,
The life-blood quicken'd in each sep'rate vein,
Would wildly, madly rushing back again;
Bring the glad spirit from the isle of death,
		It seems to me that were I dead,
And thou in sympathy shouldst o'er me shed
Some tears of sorrow, or of sad regret,
That every pearly drop that fell in grief,
Would bud, or blossom, bursting into leaf,
To prove immortal love could not forget.
		I do believe that round my grave,
When the cool, fragrant, evening zephyrs wave,
Shouldst thou in friendship linger near the spot,
And breathe some tender words in memory,
That this poor heart in grateful constancy,
Would softly whisper back some loving thought.
		I do believe that should I pass
Into the unknown land of happiness,
And thou shouldst wish to see my face once more,
That in my earnest longing after thee,
I would come forth in joyful ecstacy,
And once again gaze on thee as before.
		I do believe my faith in thee,
Stronger than life, an anchor firm to be,
Planted in thy integrity and worth,
A perfect trust, implicit and secure;
That will all trials and all grief endure,
And bless and comfort me while here on earth.
		I do believe who love hath known,
Or sublime friendship's purest, highest tone,
Hath tasted of the cup of ripest bliss,
And drank the choicest wine life hath to give,
Hath known the truest joy it is to live.
What blessing rich or great compared to thi[-]?
		I do believe true love to be,
An element that in its tendency,
Is elevating to the human mind,
An intuition which we recognize
As foretaste of immortal Paradise,
Through which the soul will be refined.
											EMILE.
	SALT LAKE CITY, Nov. 17, 1876


For the EXPONENT.
		"THE BACK BONE OF THE
			KINGDOM OF GOD."

	At a recent Fast Meeting, I was much
pleased with the testimony of a humble
brother. He said he noticed, wherever she
went, that the sisters seemed to be the
main strength of the Church. In the old
country, when he would be preaching,
perhaps out in the open air, it was the sis-
ters who gathered around him and strength-
ened him with their faith and prayers.
And here, in the Ward meetings or tho
Tabernacle, everywhere, it was the sisters
much more than the brethren, who would
turn out to perform these religious duties.
"The sisters" he said, "form, substantially
the BACK BONE of the Kingdom of God!"
	Similar remarks are frequently made by
other Elders, which helps to prove that in a
general way at least, the women of the Lat-
ter-day Saints are appreciated.
	I do like the idea of the sisters forming
the "back bone" of the Kingdom of God.
It seems to show me exactly where we (sis-
ters) stand, what our calling is and how
great our responsibilities are, more than any
small sentence I ever heard. I have al-
ways realized, since I became old enough
to reflect, that the woman could not right-
fully claim the leadership, or profess to be
the head. But I have also felt that, some-
how, her position was quite as essential as
that of her—generally acknowledged head
—the man. And now I believe I see this
little matter as it is.
	Of what use would a head be without a
backbone to assist in keeping it in its prop-
er position?  It would be worth just about
the same as a kingdom of men without wo-
men.


I am thankful that I am numbered with
a people whose men accord to woman's
worth so fair an estimate. I would rather
claim such a man as husband, in connection
with many other wives, than to hold any
position women may possibly gain outside
the Church and Kingdom of God, where
none even profess to be guided and direct-
ed by the power and authority of the Holy
Priesthood.						INEZ.


[Column 1]
			CORRESPONDENCE.

		HEBER CITY; WASATCH CO.,
						October 3d, 1876.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	We have a Relief Society here that meets
once a month to bring in our offerings for
the poor and bear testimony of the things
pertaining to the kingdom of God. Our
President, Margaret Muir has been talking
to the sisters here about learning to braid
straw and making their own hats, and also
to have shares in the co-operative store and
to trade among ourselves.
	On Wednesday and Thursday, September
27 and 28, we held a special meeting, Mrs.
E. S. Barney and Mrs. E. Howard were
present from Salt Lake City visiting in the
interest of the Societies and Deseret Silk
Association. Mrs. E. S. Barney in her address
to the sisters said they had visited already
ninteene meetings; spoke of the great work
which had been done in building up towns
and settlements and from what small be-
ginnings of Joseph Smith's mission to es-
tablish the Latter-day work; and the many
temples that must be built in the north and
south and all over the land of America, and
referred to the prophecy that the people
should "fly as doves to their windows, and
come on swift beasts;" she spoke consider-
ably upon the principles of Celestial Mar-
riage, and the follies and fashions of the
world and how they were creeping in among
this people.
	She dwelt most pointedly upon the de-
velopment of home industries, and the spe-
cialty of sericulture, its different depart-
ments from the planting out of the mul-
berry trees to its manufacture into the most
beautiful lace and ribbons, she touched up-
on the necessity of our living our religion
so we need not be scourged with grasshop-
pers and plagues of that nature; the train-
ing and educating our children in the
things pertaining to the kingdom of God,
the great benefits resulting from the organ-
izartions that had been established among
the women, and the privileges they enjoyed
in voting and closed with remarking that
she had been left an orphan and was self-
educated in nearly all respects.
	At the meeting on the following day, af-
ter the opening exercises Mrs. E. Howard
addressed the congregation first upon punc-
tuality; said it was the first meeting where
the people had come together at the appoint-
ed time. She exhorted the sisters to be
faithful in their societies and have a good
testimony of them enrolled upon the books;
she referred to the neglect of duties and
the ultimate result of such a course, that we
should be kind to our children and reason
with them and seek to preserve them from
temptation. She spoke of her astonish-
ment to see such a beautiful little city here
and thought it would be a good place in
which to carry out the United Order. She
dwelt considerably upon the useless waste
of time among the young, and their frivo-
lous ideas of love and marriage; she spoke

[Column 2]
of intemperence as being one of the great-
est curses to this nation or to any people
who would allow it to make inroads in a
community. She dwelt upon the Word of
Wisdom and the blessings attached to its
observance; the great detriment outside
trade was to this Territory, taking away the
means that would help to sustain and build
up our own institutions and manufacturies.
She said in Brigham City they had forty
home industries. She urged upon the sis-
ters the necessity of using economy in re-
gard to the smallest matters, also to teach
it to their little children, and that even in
the gathering up and saving of rags it was 
beneficial, that in saving rags they might
take the "Juvenile" and "Exponent" for
the benefit of their families.
	The instructions and counsel of these sis-
ters was very impressive, and will no doubt
be an incentive to action in the societies
they visit.
	We donated in Heber City for the Deser-
et Silk Association $16.20.
				ELLEN LEE, Secretary.


HOPE AND CUSTOM.—In our estimate of
the ills of life, we never sufficiently take
into our consideration the wonderful elas-
ticity of our moral frame, the unlooked-for,
the startling facility with which the human
mind accommodates itself to all change of
circumstance, making an object, and even a
joy from the hardest and seemingly the
least redeemed conditions of fate. The
man who watched the spider in his cell,
may have taken at least as much interest
in the watch as when engaged in the most
ardent and ambitious objects of his former
life; and he was but a type of [-]is brethren;
all in similar circumstances would have
fonnd some similar occupation. Let any
man look over his past life, let him recall,
not moments, not hours of agony, for to
them Custom lends not her blessed magic;
but let him single out some lengthened per-
iod of physical or moral endurance; in has-
tily reverting to it, it may seem at first, I
grant, altogether wretched; a series of days
marked with the black stone—the clouds
without a star; but let him look more close-
ly, it was not so during the time of suffer-
ing; a thousand little things in the bustle of
life, dormant and unheeded, then started
forth into notice, and became to him objects
of interest or diversion: the dreary present,
once familiar, glided away from him, not less
than if it had been all happiness; his mind
dwelt not on the dull intervals, but the step-
ping-stone it had created and placed at
each; and, by the moral dreaming which
for ever goes on within man's secret heart,
he lived a little within the immediate
world before him, as in the most sanguine
period of his youth, or the most scheming
of his maturity. So wonderful in equaliz-
ing all states and all times in the varying
tide of life, are these two rulers yet level-
ers of mankind, hope and custom, that the
very idea of an eternal punishment includes
that of an utter alteration of the whole
mechanism of the soul in its human state,
and no effort of an imagination, assisted by
past expecience. can conceive a state of
torture which custom can never blunt, and
from which the chainless and immaterial
spirit can never be beguiled into even a mo-
mentary escape.—Bulwe[-].


IT has been estimated that the annual
production of paper of all kinds in the
world amounts to 1,800,000,000 lbs. Half
of this is used for printing purposes.


76		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,	} Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.		}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms; One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00: A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, OCT. 15, 1876.


[Column 1]
		SISTERS BE IN EARNEST.

	At the suggestion of President Brigham
Young we would call the attention of the
women of this Territory to the subject of sav-
ing grain. It is one important item which
President Young has labored diligently to im-
press upon this people ever since their residence
in these valleys. His advice has ever been to
the brethren to cultivate the soil and let the
mines, and mining speculations alone, for the
grain was of more consequence than gold or
silver. And these people are witnesses to that
fact; practically having experienced the scar-
city of provisions and especially of breadstuffs,
in the earlier settlement of this country.
	The Lord has blessed this people abundant-
ly in the few years past in their fields and in
their stores of grain and provisions; and as in al-
most every other case when there is a profusion
of blessings, the people who receive them be-
come indifferent and do not appreciate them as
they ought. The people have been careless in
regard to taking care of their grain and many
other things. In many instances they neglect
to pay their tithing, and dispose of their pro-
ducts in such a manner as, were it to continue,
the Lord would be sorely displeased with them.
This year grain is unusually low, yet the grass-
hoppers have been visiting different parts of the
Territory, and, it is feared by many, have laid
their eggs; therefore it is more than ever essen-
tial that such measures be taken as will secure
the grain now in market. The Relief Societies
and Co-operative organizations in which some
of the women of this Territory are interested,
have funds at their disposal from time to time,
which can be made available to carry out Presi-
dent Young's wishes in regard to b[-]ying and
taking care of the grain.
	It is no doubt the best investment of means
that could possibly be made, for if the prophe-
cies of the Scriptures, both ancient and modern,
and of Joseph Smith are to be fulfilled, which the
Latter-day Saints profess to believe, there will
be a desolating famine in the land; and if the
women of this Territory will be wise, and
hearken to the counsel given to them now,
there is no doubt that the result will be an emi-
nent success. If the means now on hand in the
societies and women's associations can be turn-
ed into grain, and such measures taken to store
it and preserve it from damp and all other
things that would damage, or destroy it, as can
be made practicable according to circumstances
and advantages, then one point will be gained
towards the temporal salvation of this people in
case of emergency.
	In whatever women undertake they are gen-
erally earnest, and our advice would be im-
mediately without any delay (except such as
is unavoidable) to commence to carry out Presi-
dent Young's counsel in this matter. Where
there is a will there is (almost invariably) a
way, and in this matter there should be a per-

[Column 2]
sonal and individual as well as a general in[-]er-
est. In order to satisfactorily accomplish any
scheme, one great object is to be in earnest; on
this earnestness depends much of the success of
whatever enterprise is undertaken. If you
determine to do any thing of whatever name or
nature, first be sure it is the proper thing to do,
and then without losing time, bring your ener-
gies into immediate requisition and you are
almost sure to succeed.
	The women of this Territory are capable of
carrying out President Young's counsel in this
matter; and if they do not they will be left with-
out excuse; he has called upon the brethren
until he has become wearied, and now he ap-
peals to the sisters. Is not this a proof of his
confidence in their desire to listen to counsel?
The sisters will have ample opportunity now to
prove their ability in financiering; and it is
greatly to be hoped that they will manifest
such earnestness in this matter as cannot fail to
accomplish the desired object.
	President Young further advises the sisters,
that they enter into such arrangements as are
applicable to their circumstances in their va-
rious districts and settlements, to build store-
houses for the storing of their grain in the sec-
tions of country as they shall divide off, or ap-
portion to certain localities; also that they so-
licit donations from their husbands and the
brethren to assist them in carrying out this en:
terprise, both for the building of the store-
houses and also in obtaining grain to fill them
and preserve it for future need.
	We sincerely hope that what has been said
will be sufficient to arouse a spirit of determin-
ation in the minds of the women of Utah, to
devise and to put in practice, such measures as
shall be economical and wise, and for the gen-
eral good of all concerned.
			[handwritten] E. B. Wells


THE FORTY-SEVENTH SEMI-
			ANNUAL CONFERENCE.

	The interest manifested by the people call-
ing themselves Latter-day Saints, at the late
general Conference was great. Each day large
congregations assembled, to listen to the words
of instruction, relative to their temporal and
eternal salvation; and the servants of the Lord
were truly blest in their endeavors to minister
to the wants of the people. The first discourse
of the Conference was delivered by President
Daniel H. Wells, the last by President Brig-
ham Young; the intermediate spaces being
principally occupied by different members of
the quorum of the Twelve Apostles. President
Young was present at and presided over all the
meetings. As a text upon which to reflect and
preach, he gave to the people the question,
when shall we begin to live according to the
pattern chosen when we embraced the Gospel
of Christ? or in other words, when will the
people become one and learn to be saints?
	This is a wonderfully significant text. Surely
the answer arose in the hearts of the many
thousands "Now!" And although this senti-
ment in the souls of individuals formed no ut-
terance, certainly the majority of the people
will set to with renewed diligence and deter-
minations to assist each other in the great
work of uniting their interests as one. The
Conference just past over was one never to be
lost sight of by those who attended it. It was
adjourned till the 6th of April, 1877, to meet
in the Temple at St. George.


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	ON FRIDAY and Saturday evenings, Oct. 6
and 7th, select entertainments were given in
the 10th Ward School-house, consisting of
songs, recitations, dialogues, instrumental per-

[Column 2]
formances etc. The most striking and pleas
ing feature of the entertainment was the reci-
tation of "Beautiful Snow," by Miss Mattie
Paul. In character of expression, in voice a[-]d
gesture, her rendering of this pathetic poem
was equal to that of a cultivated artiste.
	OGDEN RELIEF SOCIETY.—On Saturday eve-
ning, Sept. 20, an entertainment was given for
the benefit of this society in the Ogden Thea-
tre. Misses Carrie Cogswell, Susie Marden and
Edith Clawson, and Messrs. Forster and Clarke
of this city, Mr. Alfred Thorne, and members
of the Ogden Dramatic Company, produced
the play of "Camille," which was followed by
an "Olio," and concluded with the "Tower
Scene" in the play of "King John," in which
Miss Clawson gave her clever rendition of
"Prince Arthur." There was a "packed"
house, and the general opinion given was that
it was an excellent dramatic entertainment.
	President F. D. Richards thanked the per-
formers, musi[-]ians, etc., all of whom had gen-
erously given their service gratuitously, and
the audience, on behalf of the Relief Society.
	Credit is due Sisters Richards and S. Herrick,
the instigators and managers of the entertain-
ment, from the proceeds of which the Relief
Society will be benefitted.—Ex.
	DESERET SILK ASSOCIATION.—The Deseret
Silk Associotion held a special meeting at Fire-
men's Hall, on Saturday afternoon, Oct. 7th,
Mrs. Zina D. Young presiding.
	Mrs. Young reported that she expected a reel
would be here in a few days. She had received
a large quantity of cocoons. This organiza-
tion was not for any personal benefit, but for
the benefit of the community of Utah. We
ought to be looking after our trees and cut-
tings, as it was very near time to plant them
out.
	Mr. Robbins said it was best to plant them
in the fall. He had had fifty years' experience
and had always found it best.
	Mrs. Barney reported that, while in the
north, she had collected $105. She could not
raise the worms, but felt a desire to see the
movement a success.
	There being quite a number present from the
various settlements, the remainder of the time
was taken up in asking questions and answer-
the same.
	The following donations were received:
Cynthia Clyde, $1; Mary S. Clark, $1; Martha
Thomas. 50c.
	Meeting adjourned till the first Wednesday
in November, at the same place.
					R. SIMPSON, Secretary.

	THE PEOPLE'S Territorial Convention for the
nomination of a Delegate to Congress, was
held in the Co[-]rt House in Salt Lake City,
Saturday, Oct. 7th, at half-past twelve, p. m.
David O. Calder, acting chairman, called the
convention to order; Judge Elias Smith, on
motion of Mr. Calder was chosen temporary
chairman. John T. Caine, on motion of Col. J.
R. Winder was elected temporary Secretary.
The business was all arranged and carried for-
ward in a quiet and methodical manner, and
no confusion whatever occurred. The com-
mittee, which had been appointed in the usual
form, reported the following officers f[--] a per-
manent organization. President D. H. Wells;
Vice Presidents, according to their districts,
A. O. Smoot and A. Hatch; E. Snow and J. N.
Smith; J. F. Smith and Brigham Young. Jr,
Secretaries, John T. Caine, Moses Thatcher,
and R. S. Horne; Chaplain, F. D. Richards;
Sergeant at Arms, Joel Grover. This report
was unanimously carried. Hon. W. H. Hoop-
er Chairman of the committee on resolutions,


reported the following subjects in form. State-
hood, Education, Irrigation, Silver Currency,
Stumpage, General. The convention sustained
the present people's territorial central com-
mittee. Hon. George Q. Cannon was formally
nominated and several speeches made on the
subject. The nomination was received with
universal applause.
	SUNDAY SCHOOL MOVEMENT.—A general
meeting of the Sunday school superintendents
and teachers of the Territory was held at the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Friday
evening Oct. 6th. Of the Twelve Apostles
there were present Elders John Taylor, Wil-
ford Woodruff, F. D. Richards, and George Q.
Cannon. There were representatives from
nearly all the counties and the time was occu-
pied mostly by hearing from the superintend-
ents; the reports of the progress of the move-
ment being very encouraging, and indicated
that the Bishops and other leading men were
taking a more lively interest in it than hereto-
fore.
	THE SUNDAY School is one of the greatest
educators of the young that has ever been
instituted; and upon the youth of any na-
tion, or people depends the future strength
and power for good or evil. It is the influ-
ence of Sunday Schools in a very great de-
gree that gives sublimity of tone to the
aspirations and ambitions of the young.
The subject is one which involves the highest
and holiest interests of a community. Here
they are, or should be taught to reverence
every thing that is sacred and pure, to imitate
the blessed Savior in humility and meek-
ness which were the striking characteristics of
His life and death.
	Let every mother be awakened to renewed
interest in this direction, and inspire, if possi-
ble, all within her circle with the same zeal
and earnestness. To the children of the poor,
and to the orphan the Sunday School is a bless-
ing which it is impossible to estimate. God
bless the Sunday School; it is one of the most
potent workers of the redemption of Israel.
	DR. ELLEN B. Ferguson to whom reference
has been made in this paper, has returned from
St. George and taken up her residence in Pro-
vo, where she will continue the practice of
medicine. Mrs. Ferguson is a regularly grad-
uated physician, has studied her profession
in England and America, and spent four years
of her life in the hospitals of London and
Paris; has had twelve years experience in an
extensive practice in the United States. We
would recommend her to the sisters in
Provo and vicinity who need the services of a
skillful and experienced physician. She is al-
so a fine musician and vocalist and will give
lessons in vocal and instrumental music at her
residence. Office and residence in A. F. Mac-
donald's house, Provo, Utah Co. Mrs. Dr.
Ferguson has traveled and lectured extensively
in different countries; she is a lady of most
pleasing and attractive manners, her voice is
clear and full of melody, and in notices we
have seen from the Eastern press, she has been
spoken of as a woman possessing "rare intel-
lectual ability and literary culture; a thorough
knowledge of all that belongs to the human
system, and the pathology of disease;" Mrs.
Dr. Ferguson is also spoken of as "one having
in a large degree those qualities of hert and
mind that must always be the crowning glory
of true and enlightened womanhood."
	Mrs. Ferguson's course of lectures on Gyne-
cology, delivered in the East, treat of the Con-
stitution, Idiosyncrasies and Diseases of Wo-
man, together with the Laws of the Social and
Physical relations of the Sexes.
	A Woman's Convention.—On Wednesday,
Oct. 4th, at 2 o'clock p. m., the officers and
members of the Relief Society from all the
different wards of the city and vicinity con-
vened in the Council Hose by previous ap-
pointment. President Miss E. R. Snow arose
and explained to the sisters that President B.
Young would not be present, as had been an-
ticipated, but would send his private Secretary
with a communication. She thenn nominated
Mrs. M. I. Horne to preside over the meeting,
and Mrs. E. B. Wells to act as Secretary,
which motions were unanimously carried.
	After the opening exercises, the assemblage
being too large to be accommodated in the
Council House, the meeting adjourned to the
Old Tabernacle. Elder George Reynolds, hav-
ing arrived with President Young's communi-
cation, arose and addressed the sisters on the
object of the meeting and read the following
letter from President Young:
			"Salt Lake City, Oct. 4th, 1876.
		"To the President, and Members of the Re-
lief Societies, in meeting assembled at the
Council House this afternoon.
	"Dear Sisters.—It would be very gratifying
to us if you could form an association to start
business in the capacity of disposing of home-
made articles, such as are manufactured among
ourselves, for the benefit of the Latter-day
Saints; also to make a selection from among
the sisters, members of this association, to take
charge and carry on this business on commis-
sion or by purchase, and to transact all the
business pertaining to this institution. If you
cannot be satisfied with the selection of sisters
from among yourselves to take charge, we will
render you assistance by furnishing a compe-
tent man for the transaction of the financial
matters of this establishment.
		"Your brother in the Gospel,
					"Brigham Young."
	After reading this letter, Brother Reynolds
made some very suggestive and appropriate re-
marks on home industries and the great desire
President Young felt to have the people push
forward in the development of home manufac-
ture.
	An organization was formed by electing the
following persons as officers of the association.
Miss E. R. Snow, President; Mrs. Priscilla
Stains, Vice President; Mrs. Elizabeth Davis,
Secretary; Mrs. Bathsheba Smith, Treasurer;
Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Mrs. Lydia Ann
Wells, Mrs. Phebe Woodruff, Mrs. Presendia
Kimball, Directors.
	Many excellent remarks were made by the
officers and such suggestions by Miss E. R.
Snow and others, as were adapted to the occa-
sion and organization of the association. After
all the business had been transacted which
seemed requisite at the time, the officers of the
board were requested to meet at the Old Con-
stitution building at 6 o'clock the same eve-
ning, and after singing and prayer the Conven-
tion adjourned sine die.
	The Relief Society Woman's Mercan-
			tile Association.
Has opened a store for the sale of home man-
ufactures in the building lately occupied by
the Woman's Centennial Territorial Fair,
known as the Old Constitution Building, op-
posite Z. C. M. I. store.
	We are now ready to receive home made use-
ful and ornamental articles of all kinds, which
we will sell on commission.
	Many of our citizens have felt the want of a
place devoted exclusively to Utah productions,
and now that we are, in accordance with the
wishes of President Young, uniting our hum-
ble efforts in this direction, we confidently
trust that we shall not only have the support
of all branches of the Relief Society through-
out the valleys of the mountains, but also of
our brethren and all others who feel an inter-
est in the future welfare and prosperity of
Utah.
	Commencing as we do without capital we
wish it distinctly understood that at present
we can only sell on commission.
				Eliza R. Snow, President.
				Priscilla M. Stains,
						Vice President.
				Elizabeth Davis,
						Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTICE.

	The Relief Society Woman's Co-operative
Association or Woman's Commission Store is
now open at the Old Constitution Buildings
opposite Z. C. M. I. The Superintendent and
those interested with the management of the
organization are prepared to do business on
commission in all departments of dry goods
home productions. They have for sale many
useful and ornamental articles, and their
supply is rapidly increasing. They have near-
ly all the varieties of church books, including
"Book of Mormon" and "Doctrine and Coven-
ants" new edition, and Mr. E. W. Tullidge's
new book "The Life of Brigham Young, or
Utah and Her Founders." This enterprise is a
most laudable one and the Association labor
under many inconveniences in starting out in
this new direction. We sincerely hope the
Latter-day Saints will interest themselves
practically in this praiseworthy undertaking,
and by their patronage thus promote the es-
tablishment of more successful and extended
home-industries, and thus advance the inter-
ests of economy in devising and practising
such measures as shall result in a thorough
system of self-support throughout this com-
munity.


OBITUARY.

	DIED IN Cedar City, Iron Co., July 28th, '76,
Mrs. Rachel Whittaker, aged 68 years. She
received and obeyed the Gospel in Bolton,
Lancashire, England, in 1850, and came to
Utah in 1851, with her husband and four child-
ren, arriving in Salt Lake City, Sept. 27th, of
the same year. She was one of the first set-
tlers in Cedar City and remained there till her
death. She was President of the Relief So-
ciety of that place since its first organization
until within a year of her death, when she re-
signed on account of failing health. She had
the confidence and love of all the sisters, was
ever found at the post of duty at the bedside of
the sick, or ministering to the poor; wherever
sorrow or trouble was she was always ready to
console and administer relief, and was indeed
a mother in Israel. She was one of the most
patient women in suffering, never complain-
ing or repining, and at the last she fell asleep
without a struggle, and with abundant hope
of a glorious resurrection. She will be greatly
missed as a counselor and benefactor in the
vicinity of Cedar City where she was so much
revered and beloved.


RESIGNATION is putting God between
one's-self and one's grief.—Madame Svet-
chine.
	NONE can enter by the heavenly gate
above who do not enter by the narrow gate
below.


78		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ADDRESS.

	READ BEFORE THE RELIEF SOCIETY
		OF SANTAQUIN, COMPOSED BY
			THE SECRETARY.

	Dear brethren and sisters, I do not know
what may be your feelings on this occasion,
but mine are full of intense gratitude to
the author of every good and perfect gift.
	While contemplating the display of the
sisters' home-made work, so gracefully dec-
corating these walls, I cannot help feeling
grateful to God, that he has blest our sisters
with such talents, and so inspired the hearts
of worthy men and women, to introduce
into our church such a heavenly society as
the Relief Society is. There is nothing
but the Relief Society that can so effectu-
ally carry out the one great principle ever
taught by our Saviour while upon the earth.
Except ye have charity, nothing will avail
you.
	If our society cannot make the display
that other settlements have done before us,
it is not for the want of talent or energy,
but for the want of time and means. We
as a society are composed of poor sisters,
who have to labor with our husbands and
sons, and whose means are but limited. We
have a number of poor families to care for,
and our disbursements many times exceed
our income. We have a President who is
ever alive to the wants of the poor and the
needy, and who well knows how to dis-
pose of the means intrusted to her care, for
their relief, likewise when sickness and
death are in our midst you will always find
Prest. Elizabeth Stickney among the first
to visit and administer to the afflicted ones.
We have wise counselors, faithful teachers,
and a good treasurer; we also have about
one hundred or more faithful sisters who
can stand up at our meetings and nobly
bear their testimonies and who love to give
their mites for the up-building of the King-
dom of God, and who relieve the wants of
the poor widows, orphans, aged and dis-
tressed, and who say they never miss what
they give to the Relief Society. We like-
wise have a kind father in our Bishop, who
knows how to advise us in any difficulty,
and who cares for our welfare in every par-
ticular.
	That our Society, although poor, is blest
with faithfulness, unity and love, is a fact
not to be denied; therefore it is for this that
I feel full of gratitude to God at this time,
who has blest us so richly ever since this
society was organized here, by our beloved
but departed brother, Pres. D. H. Holladay,
who said that the society should be blest,
and that it should never fall.
	May God bless us, one and all, and save
us in His celestial kingdom, is my prayer in
the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
								E. C.


[Column 1]
				EXTRACTS,

	FROM A RECENT BOOK BY DR. GARTH
		WILKINSON, ENTITLED, "HUMAN
			SCIENCE AND DIVINE
				REVELATION.

	Speaking of the new freedom of man-
kind he says:
	"This is seen very especially in the per-
ception looming everywhere of the rights
of women. Not to mention other branches
of the subject, political rights, and the
rights of education may be adduced in
point. No reason has yet been given, why
Woman should be denied her experiment;

[Column 2]
why any real sphere of life should be clos-
ed against her; and her public free will be
abated or wholly or chiefly managed by the
masculine free will. The despotism over
her cannot last; her incessant cause will
wear it out, will tire it to death. When
she has been enfranchised, and barrier af-
ter barrier has been removed, when no stat-
ute not obviously sexual contains either
"he" or "she" distinctively, and all the ways
of life are open to her, and property is no
longer masculine but human, what will she
do with her freedom? There is no possibil-
ity of forecasting that future. It is adduced
only to show the new strain upon responsi-
bility which is coming; and how much God
and prayer will be needed to enable her to
bear the strain and to receive the light
which is required. Clearly many rights
will drop when the power to exercise them
is given. Clearly a new education for femi-
nine wisdom will accrue from her earnest
desire and inquiry to know what fields she
may occupy. It is obvious that freedom
and experiment alone can qualify her for
knowing her qualifications; that she will
then learn from failures and successes, as men
have done, where she is, and become a
teacher to herself. In the meantime, even
now, with Parliament against her she is
inwardly in the tension of this new free-
dom, and is not sure whether she is to be
as a man, or whether there is a whole new
womanly side to affairs and the state.

	Let male law be lifted off as a burden and
a shame, and woman be left to her proper
self determination; to be as much like a
man, or as little like a man as she pleases;
to vote, propose marriage, administer prop-
erty and the like, and her quality will
right itself, because her experimental in-
struction about her place can then begin."
	"In her thoughts of education also, the
same strain is felt. Is she to be as a young
man and a collegian here, and to be made
into a man-woman by exactly that education
which it is supposed has produced the pres-
ent masculine race with its dominant pow-
ers? It is not perhaps any person's busi-
ness to answer that question, but rather it
must be referred to experiment, of which
her new mental freedom is the condition.
The world must await the trial, and succor
the stress which it involves.
	It is evident that woman has the same
mental powers as men, but differently sex-
ed and centered. She can enter in her
way into all arts and sciences; she can sit
on thrones, command and lead armies, ex-
ert eloquent speech, make excellent litera-
ture, practice medicine and perform sur-
gery, preach in pulpits, and receive divine
communications. In short, the scale of her
powers is co-equal with his in all things. She
can do in every department what she has
an adequate affection for doing. But what
perhaps she cannot profitably do in the long
run is, to lay hold of things on the purely
intellectual side and enter upon them thus.
Her heart predominates, as the head pre-
dominates in the man. Now this being the
case, to give her equal chances with man,
a complete rehabilitation of knowledge in
her interests also is necessary, that she may
learn a corresponding heart-truth in every
detail for the man's head truth. Man has
the advantage of all his own intellectual
experience; gained through his own effort
by his own sexual process of thought. Wo-
man has no present advantage of the kind
before her; and must be content to enter
upon the faculties of man and their acqui-
sitions, at second hand. This is a grave
consideration for the advocates of the higher
education of women; indeed for their gen-

[Column 3]
eral education of all; that the intellect of
the heart that beautiful intellect, should
have no knowledge of nature and things,
and no learning at first hand, but only what
supplants its freedom, and is compelled up-
on it by the intellect of the head. It ar-
gues the throwing away of a marriageable
quality, the abeyance of the woman's in-
tellect before the man's.
	Is she to rewrite history to reconstruct
science, to reproduce metaphysics, to rein-
vent the arts, from her own womanly intel-
lect so as to have a world of her own, and
introduce it into harmonious and conjugal
relationship, as of the heart-mind with the
head-mind with the existing intellectual
fabrics, and art fabrics which is so prepon-
derantly of masculine growth? That can
hardly be intended; because what has been
done hitherto belongs to the past, and no
copy is possible; nay, no new originals that
follow the old lines. Moreover it is to be
hoped that the man has done, and is doing
the coarse work of thought, invention and
practice; and that his partner, in the days
of time, is to be saved that labor. Never-
theless it may be thought that Woman's
mind has a sphere of its own in everything;
and that all things through her faculties,
now that they are being filled with the new
free-will which is creative, will reappear in
their new heart-forms.

	Now the thought that c[--]es out of a true
sympathy is full of the finest natural truths.
The new Woman will therefore be present
by heart truths all through the common-
wealth, and will be prime minister of the
new man in his permitted administration
of the Godwealth. The coin of regenera-
tion will pass through her fingers in its frag-
ments and to its ends.—Woman's Journal.


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.

	Flowers seem intended for the solace of
ordinary humanity. Children love them:
quiet, tender, contended, ordinary people
love them as they grow; luxurious and dis-
orderly people rejoice in them gathered.
They are the cottager's treasure, and in the
crowded town, mark as with a little broken
fragment of rainbow, the windows of the
workers in whose hearts rests the covenant
of peace. To the child and the girl, to the
peasant and manufacturing operative to
the woman of the world and the nun, the
lover and the monk, they are precious al-
ways.
	Until we can read the heart of another
without doubt and know all the circumstan-
ces of his or her life, all the many links in
the chain of accident that has surrounded
the erring one, we should not blame too
much or be too wrathful towards such a
one. What one has done may be wrong,
but we cannot tell why it was done, or how
the doing of it may have been repented. A
moment of strong feeling, an hour of wrath,
may turn the feet upon the downward road
so hard to retrace. We see one lying at
the foot of a precipice; but we do not know
how he or she fell over—what cruel hand
may have smote!—what lie betrayed—nor
how the wounded one may have clung
vainly to the brink, praying in vain for
some helping hand.


VOLTAIRE, having lampooned a noble-
man, was caned by him for his wit, when
on applying to the Duke of Orleans, then
Regent, and begging him to do him justice,
the duke replied with a smile, "Sir, it has
been done already."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A VINDICATION OF WOMEN.

	With all the boasted chivalrous feeling of
the United States it is astonishing to see
how many of them are attributing to wo-
men the condition of things that has led to
the crimes and the disgrace of the late Sec-
retary of War. There have been innumer-
able sermons printed, in newspapers con-
ducted by men, on such texts as woman's
extravagance, woman's ambition, woman's
love of admiration, woman's fast living,
and woman's want of principle. All these
assumed characteristics of the sex in Ameri-
ca are illustrated by anecdotes or by scandal-
ous insinuations furnished by the wretched
creatures in men's clothing, who make their
living by the retail of personal gossip, mis-
named "society-news," for papers that cater
for the vulgar tastes of the people that fre-
quent the lowest kinds of balls, clubs and
bar-rooms, and the still lower resorts where
virtue in either sex is unknown and impos-
sible. If the women of American soci-
ety were really composed of such beings as
put themselves at the mercy of these crea-
tures, and allow them, or pay them to ad-
vertise their style of beauty, their wit,
their accomplishments, their dinners, their
receptions, their dress, their jewels, their
visiting lists, their followers of each sex,
and their utterly heartless, heathenish
worldliness, then one might well despair of
the country.					But happily
where one woman, or half a dozen women,
can be found to commit a disgrace that is
felt by the whole nation, there are millions
of women that are the very vital essence of
the goodness of the American people.
	Without these millions of good women
there would be no good men, or very few.
				Each one of these mil-
lions of good women, be she matron or
maid, is exercising a good influence, accord-
ing to her physical and her mental strength,
that tells upon the general condition of so-
ciety quite as much as does the influence of
each one of the small number of famously
bad, or silly, or extravagant women, one of
whom has lately been so ruthlessly held up
as a typical American woman by ignorant
or cowardly men.				The
old history of the Garden of Eden is re-
peating itself frequently. But in all recent
repetitions of it, especially in political af-
fairs, the Adam is the worst sinner. In
ninety-nine cases out of a hundred he puts
himself in the way of temptation, and in
most of these he is saved from a fatal fall
by his Eve. If his is the controlling spirit,
and he leads her to join him in sins of his
own devising, he is the party to be dis-
graced and punished. His Eve ought to be
treated at least with a little of the mercy
given so abundantly by a Divine being, in a
later dispensation, to a woman who had al-
ready sinned but was really repentant.
There was the one grand case of chivalry
that was more than knightly—THAT was di-
vine.—Ex,


POSITIVE PEOPLE.

	Of all the trials appointed by way of dis-
cipline in this sublunary sphere, is not the
greatest that of being forced into the per-
petual companionship of a positive person?
One who is so eminently and distressingly re-
spectable that he never did a wrong act in
his life, yet who constantly clashes upon all
your little harmonies and ideal dreams of
life, who shadows your rose-colored atmos-
phere, dispels your fancies at a glance, and
transforms every chord of your life to a dis-
cord. To be able to discover a flaw in the


character of such an individual would be
to your mind more refreshing than summer
rain to the parched earth. But no; from
his immaculate and appaling respectability
there is no appeal. Defenseless and silent
must you listen to his oracular opinions on
all conceivable subjects. His ground is
staked out at right angles, around which
your feet, long accustomed to wander at
their own sweet will, must walk circum-
spectly.
	There is no subject, from the Heaven
above to the Earth beneath, on which his
mind is not established firmly as the ever-
lasting hills. Who are you to presume on
questioning his opinions?
	Oh, for the grace of adaptability? Like
charity, it covers a multitude of sins.
Though your friend be more unlettered
than a Patagonian, more unconformable in
temperament than the Furies of old, yet
the grace of adaptability to times and moods
shall transfigure him in your sight, and his
coming shall ever bring you pleasure, and
his leaving pain!
	It is a great virtue in machinery that it
is easily adjustable to different kinds of
work and different operators. It is no less
a virtue in life. The gauges of living must
meet various and widely different demands.
Unforseen exigencies are continually aris-
ing. Opinions, duly labelled and stowed
away in one's mind, are not available for
the common needs of humanity. The best
of all things is a susceptibility to progress-
ion. People who pride themselves upon
being always the same, yesterday, to-day
and forever, are not only the most tiresome,
but the most detrimental to the true inter-
ests of society. Dr. Holmes remarks some-
where: "Don't be consistent but be simply
true."
	If your opinion has changed, you are,
doubtless, wiser than you were before. It
is not probable that wisdom has found a
termination in a life of any one individual,
and it becomes us to feel some regard for
the opinions of every one. A sweet and
gracious adaptability—a mental pliability,
so to speak—which, if not analyzed, is al-
ways realized. It is the slight and unassim-
ilated culture that repels. The genuine ar-
ticle attracts, and, unconsciously, perhaps,
to itself, draws all around it upward. It is
the "life of beauty" which invests all
around it with the "beauty of its thought."
It is the "little learning," the little culture,
the little thought, that is "a dangerous
thing," not the deep, sure foundations
widening every day. Positive people do not
change, therefore they do not progress.
At twenty years of age they may be shin-
ing lights in the community, but see if at
fifty they are not hard, unyielding and un-
comfortable.—Lady's Journal.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Ginger Cake.—One cup sour cream, one of mo-
lases of any kind, one of sugar, one teaspoonful of
salt, one of soda and two of ginger, Mix stiff
and bake quickly.
	Packing Eggs for Winter use.—Strong lime
water is the best of anything, but in the absence
of lime many pack their eggs small end down in
common salt. Some grease the shells with melt-
ed lard and pack in bran. A very good way too,
is to fill a calendar full of eggs and pour over
them a teakettle of boiling water, then, when
cool, pack in salt. The hot water slightly cooks
the outside of the egg, making it air-tight.
	Citron Preserves.—Pare the citron, take out
the seeds, and cut in small pieces; weigh it and
put it in cold water and boil until tender; throw in


a few peach leaves to give it a green color; also a
small lump of alum to harden it. Make a syrup
of three-quarters of a pound of sugar for each
pound of citron, and for every seven pounds use
four lemons and two ounces of green ginger-root.
Slice the lemons and ginger-root thin, scald them
in a little clea[-] water, after which add the sugar.
Boil the syrup down until thick, then add the cit-
ron and let it boil five minutes. Take the whole
up in jars and seal up close, and keep in a dark,
dry, cool place.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Sure Cure for Inflamed Eyes.—Take half an
ounce of Golden Seal (you will find it at the drug
stores), pour one-half pint boiling water upon it
and let it cool. Bathe the eyes with a linen rag
dipped in this, each night on going to bed, and
you will soon effect a cure.
	How to Grow Fat.—Take soup every day,
also milk-coffee or chocolate well sweetened, 2
Let your food be chiefly farinaceous and vegeta-
ble; bread with butter or milk; milk-mush, pota-
toes, cabbage, turnips etc., prepared with butter,
sweet puddings. 3 Eat meat only once a day;
the fatter kinds are the most suitable. Take
neither acids nor alkalies, and avoid everything
that disagrees. Milk, butter and sugar are very
fattening, but everybody cannot take them with
impunity, and to grow fat it is essential that di-
gestion be almost perfect. Sleep all you want, and
take exercise in moderation.
	Action of Cod-Liver Oil in Disease.—Buch-
heim finds that cod-liver oil has an acid reaction,
and contains, in addition to the fatty glycerides,
free fatty acids—oleic, stearic, and pahnitic—the
quantities of which vary in different kinds of oil,
but amount in the clear variety to about five per
cent.; and no biliary matters are present in the
oil. Its value, according to Buchheim, depends on
the presence of the free fatty acids, since the ab-
sorbtion of fats is preceeded, to a certain extent
at least, by their disintegration into glycerine and 
fatty acids; and as the latter are introduced in 
cod-liver oil in their free condition, and thus easily
unite with the alkalies of the intestinal juices to
form soluble and easily absorbed soaps and com-
binations, a part of the digestive work is spared,
which is of importance for weak persons with de-
ficient power of producing the gastric juices.
	Barley Water Preferable to Milk.—A paper en-
titled "Observations on the Digestibility of Milk,"
read a short time since in London, by Dr. Carter,
has attracted considerable attention. In this pa-
per, Dr. Carter, as reported, discussed various
methods which had been generally used with a
view of promoting the digestibility of milk, point-
ing out that their efficiency was essentially due to
the dilution of the caseine, thus causing the pre-
cipitation, on its introduction into the stomach,
in a granular form, of what would otherwise be
firm, bulky, and compact. He further showed by
experiment, that simple dilution with water was
insufficient for this purpose, and that the object is
far better attained by adding a mixture of alka-
line or starchy waters with the mix. Dr. Carter
summed up by giving a decided practical prefer-
ence to barley water, and this conclusion he illus-
trated and supported by various experiments.


The following are some of the meanings
attached to precious stones: Diamond, in-
nocence; ruby, forgetfulness of vexations
caused by friendship and love; emerald,
success in love; sapphire, repentance; ame-
thyst, sincerity; garnet, coustancy; topaz
fidelity; turquoise, prosperity; opal, hope;
bloodstone, courage; agate, health and long
life; cornelian, contentment; sardonyx, con-
jugal fidelity; chrysolite, antidote against
madness; malachite is not a precious stone
but its color green, signifies hope.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE NEAR FUTURE.

	A San Francisco, California, prophet gives
us items of his predictions in regard to
events just about to transpire. We know
this to be an age fraught with wonders
great and marvellous; the Scriptures, Book
of Mormon, the prophecies of Joseph Smith,
all warn us of thrilling scenes, national revo-
lutions and fearful convulsions of the ele-
ments of nature's realm. Some of our
readers may like to hear what one of the
world's seers says, and for their benefit we
copy the prediction in full:
	"A dark cloud is visible over a great
part of the United States, between October
and the 10th of November. This denotes
ill feeling, stringency in money matters,
political disturbances, and want of harmony
in nearly all particulars. Somewhere about
October 20 or 25th, a great catastrophe will
occur in one of the large cities in the Uni-
ted States, involving much loss of life. A
dark cloud in the political horizon denotes
the near approach of the death of a politi-
cal leader of note, also to a renowned capi-
talist in the East. A convulsion of nature
is threatened upon this coast in October,
and great storms in the East. A very
prominent man upon this coast will be the
mark for many tongues in regard to finan-
cial integrity. After much trouble he will
probably save himself from utter ruin.
Disturbances of various kinds will trouble
the peace and quietness of the people in a
thickly populated part of this city, and
many alarming rumors will be prevalent in
October and November. In mining stocks
an unusual market is denoted in October,
and many sensational reports will be used
to check the growing bonanza, which stock
at the present time is but little thought of.
	In Europe, a nation now at peace, will
make warlike preparations, which will
probably end in war, but not during this
year. A great convulsion of nature is
threatened in a country situated to the
south. A country now at war in Europe
will by changes of administration settle all
difficulties and suspend hostilities during
the last of the year.
	In our own government a stupendous
fraud will be discovered near the seat of
government which will bring disgrace to
several very prominent officials. Figura-
tively a cloud visible, just rising in the
West, and the form it takes is that of a
man whose advent will overtake all exist-
ing forms of government. Many people
will flock to his standard during the early
part of '77, and the outlook of that year in-
dicates that it will be the most noted one of
the century."—Ex.


A VISION.

	I had a vision in which I was transport-
ed to the city of Paris. There I saw noth-
ing, however, which as a traveler, I should
have sought. I was conducted by an un-
known guide through crowded streets, into
the heart of the city—into a house, and by
a winding passage into the centre of the
house. That room was small, without win-
dows, and brilliant with gas. The occu-
pant was a man, and we found him violent-
ly at work turning a crank, which seemed
to communicate its motion to machinery
outside of the room. His neck and arms
were bare, and he was red, and puffing with
the violence of his exercise. His express-
ion was evil, and I began to retreat; but
my guide held me, and said, "Ask him
what he is about." So I said as graciously
as I could:


"What manufacture may you be engaged
in, sir?"
	"I turn out the fashions," said he. "My
master keeps a hand at this machine day
and night, throwing off the fashions which
you may see in magazine plates all over
Christendom; now a new style of bonnets,
now of sacks, of dresses, of jewelry, trim-
mings, every thing which goes to make up
feminine attire. By means of this machine
a perfect metamorphosis in woman's dress
is accomplished at least every two months.
One fashion is only adopted before another
is ready to displace it."
	"What is the use?" said I.
	"Well, master is fond of power," he re-
plied, and he rules the world, as you may
say, in this way. This is his grand device
to keep women from thinking. She has no
time to think; she has only time to change
her dress. I turn the wheel, and she must
keep step. She is like a dazed bird—charm-
ed with changing colors—and my master
keeps easy possession of her."
	Then I saw that the adversary of souls
contrived this great system of fashions to
keep woman in a vain show all her life; and
when I went into the street, I saw in every
line of the "latest fashion" his deep design.
	R.
—The Gem.


DIVERSIONS.

	WHAT word will read backwards and for-
wards the same?—Level.
	WHAT flower is emblematic of a fop ad-
dicted to fighting?—The dandy-lion.
	WHY are we sure to have justice done us
after dinner?—Because we get our dessert.
	WHAT word in the English tanguage be-
comes shorter by having a syllable added?—
Short.
	WHAT word of one syllable becomes a
word of two, by having two letters taken
away?—Plague.
	IT was said of a certain judge that he
was so reserved in his manners that one
would never suspect he had any.
	WHEN Richard III. was "himself again"
of course we knew who he was; but who
was he when he was not himself?
	WHAT word is it, the first two letters of
which are male, the three first female, the
first four a brave man, and the whole word
a brave woman?—Heroine.
	DEFINITION of a baby:—A palpitating
tiny bunch of nothing rolled up in flannel,
with the one faculty of almost automatic suc-
tion.


[Column 1]
	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

[Column 2]
	DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
	Orders from the country promptly responded to.
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send y[-]ur orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.
	
R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
			Manufacturers of
	ESSENCE OF JAMAICA GINGER,
	TOILET SOAP, (Highly Perfumed,)
BATH SAND TABLETS,
		Indispensable to the Toilet and Bath Room.
SCOURING SOAP,
		A great Saving of Labor to the Housekeeper.
SUPERIOR WRITING FLUID,
	One of the best flowing and durable Inks ever made.
	We Warrant our Articles Pure.
			JOSEPH L. BARFOOT, Chemical Director
Addres		R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
	Lock Box, 1064.		Salt Lake City.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call will [---] the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget.
					17, East Temple street.
				TEMPLE OF FASION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
