VOL. 5		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1876.		No. 4


LITTLE BY LITTLE.

	"Little by little," the torrent said,
	As it swept along its narrow bed,
		Chafing in wrath and pride.
	"Little by little" and "day by day,"
	And with every wave it bore away
	A grain of sand from the banks which lay
		Like granite walls on either side.

	It came again, and the rushing tide
	Covered the valley far and wide,
		For the mighty banks were gone.
	A grain at a time they were swept away;
	And now the fields and meadows lay
		Under the waves, for the work was done.

	"Little by little," the tempter said,
	As a dark and cunning snare he spread
		For the young, unwary feet.
	"Little by little" and "day by day"
	I'll tempt the careless soul astray,
	Into the broad and flowery way,
		Until the ruin is made complete.

	"Little by little," sure and slow,
	We fashion our future of bliss or woe
		As the present passes away.
	Our feet are climbing the stairway bright,
	Up to the regions of endless light,
	Or gliding downward into the night;
		"Little by little" and "day by day."
SELECTED.


PERSONAL BEAUTY.

	If the admirers of the brunette tell you
seriously that there is no expression in the
blonde, that she fails to wear well, that her
beauty is of the shallow type, which can be
taken in and digested at half a glance,
while the brunette grows and grows upon
you like a star in heaven, on the other hand,
the lovers of the blonde have exhausted
poetry and language in her praise, and pro-
test quite as savagely that she is the most
perfect specimen of womanly beauty, It is
all a matter of taste, however, since "beau-
ty is a joy forever," whether it be of the
nut-brown maid, or of Fair Ellinor. Was
it not the "fair haired Helen" who lighted
fools the way to dusty death? Have not
both blonde and brunette swayed the world
by turns? If the first is too colorless and
indefinite to please you, may not the second
be too decided in tone to charm another?
We are fond of saying beauty is only skin-
deep—perhaps as a gentle consolation to
those who have none—while in truth it is
bred in the bone with those who lay any
positive claim to it. You may rob such a
one of the cheek's red marvel, of the eye's
lustre, and point crows' feet upon the face,
and yet the bony structure will repeat the
story. Landor tells us that extreme beauty
is expressionless; and may it not be that
nature, having lavished color, form, and
harmony upon one, reserves expression for
the inharmonious, colorless faces, and so
keeps the balance good? For expression is
always the highest, the most durable form
of loveliness, something with which Time
cannot trifle, which improves with age, be-
side which fine features and vivid tints are
ineffectual and insignificant. In the mean-
time it is evident how great a factor beauty
is, when a dimple can work mischief, when
a pair of sparkling eyes are worth more to
their owner than a fortune, when a coral lip
carries conviction, and a rosy cheek is a
passport to favor and to good society. All


our prejudices are at the service of beauty
at first sight; we are apt to think it an ex-
ponent of the inward spirit, the soul shin-
ing through, or overflowing into visible
form; and we experience an almost personal
disappointment when we find that the man-
ners and thoughts do not correspond to the
face. Beauty is indeed at times something
utterly independent of symmetrical fea-
tures, clear complexion, and liquid eyes; "a
divine improvisation," which happens to
some people whom we are in the habit of
calling plain, and develops their possibili-
ties; something that seems to be the radi-
ations of happy thoughts, of a lofty mind.
And do not the countenances of those we
love always wear a charm that transcends
actual beauty, be the eyes luminous or
faded, the nose retrousse or aquiline, the
hair golden or gray?


WOMEN OF THE PAST.

	There was a time when women of rank
and affluence were not thought degraded
by dressing the fatted calf and baking cakes
upon the hearth; when with their pitcher
upon their shoulder, they went to the well
to draw water for their flocks; and when
even royalty knew how to appreciate the
virtues of her who sought wool and flax,
and wrought willingly with her hands;
who laid her hands to the spindle and to
the distaff: who made fine linen and sold it,
and delivered girdles to the merchant;
who looked well to the ways of her house-
hold and ate not the bread of idleness. But
time has wrought a change in the circum-
stances and habits of women of the present
age, though there are many of all ranks
who are not less usefully employed than
were the matrons of ancient times; many
to whom it may be said, "Give them of the
fruit of their doings, and let their own
works praise them in the gates."
	Happy the woman in whom education
has united with natural talent to form so
important a character and fill so high a place
as that of the mistress of a family.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	A CHART of the moon six feet in diameter
is soon to be issued in lithograph in Berlin.
The original chart was drawn by Dr.
Scmhidt, Director of the Astronomical Ob-
servatory at Athens, and is the result of
thirty years' labor. Thirty astronomical
observations were in some instances requir-
ed to complete a small fraction of the chart.
The Prussian government purchased the
drawing for $10,000.
	THE GREAT Spanish orator Emilio Caste-
lar, accompanied by Dr. Alberto De Abnis-
quita and Jose Guarandi, will arrive in this
country to visit the Centennial Exposition
about the end of this month, as representa-
tives of the Spanish press. Castelar has
promised to deliver an oration in Philadel-
phia to his countrymen.
	SECRETARY SEWARD began an auto-biog-
raphy but stopped at 1834. His son, Fred-
eric W. Seward, has completed the work


by giving a full account of his father's life
after that time. The book will probably
possess great historical interest, and will be
published this summer.
	THE "WOMAN'S Hotel," in New York,
designed by Mr. A. T. Stewart for the ac-
commodation of working-girls, is rapidly
approaching completion, and will probably
be ready for occupancy early next spring.
The building has five hundred rooms, which
will be neatly furnished and supplied with
gas and steam heat. It is the intention to
have good meals furnished at cost prices,
that is about fifteen cents apiece.


HOW TO MAKE MISCHIEF.

	Keep your eye on your neighbors. Take
care of them. Do not let them stir without
watching. They may do something wrong
if you do. To be sure you never knew them
to do anything very bad, but it may be on
your account if they have not. Perhaps if
it had not been for your kind care they
might have disgraced themselves long ago.
Therefore do not relax any effort to keep
them where they ought to be. Never mind
your own business that will take care of it-
self. There is a man passing along; he is
looking over the fence; be suspicious of 
him; perhaps he contemplates stealing some
of these dark nights, there is no knowing
what queer fancies may have got into his
head.
	If you find any symptoms of any one pass-
ing out of the path of duty, tell every one
else what you see and be particular to see a
great many. It is a good way to circulate
such things, though it may not benefit
yourself or any one else particularly. Do
keep something going—silence is a dread-
ful thing though it is said there was silence
in heaven for half an hour—do not let such
a thing occur on earth—it would be too
much for this mundane sphere.
	If after all your watchful care you cannot
see anything out of the way in any one, you
may be sure it is not because they have not
done anything bad; perhaps in an unguard-
ed moment you lost sight of them; throw
out hints that they are no better than they
should be, that you should not wonder if
people found out what they were after a lit-
tle while, then they may not hold their
heads so high. Keep it going, and some
one else may take the hint, and begin to
help you along after a while; then there
will be music, and everything will work
like a charm.


BUILDING CHARACTER.—There is a
structure which everybody, young and old,
is building, each one for himself. It is
called Character, and in it every act of life
is a stone. If, day by day, we be careful
to build our lives with pure, noble, upright
deeds, at the end will stand a fair temple,
honored by God and man. But, as one leak
will sink a ship, and one flaw break a chain,
so one mean, dishonorable, untruthful act
or word will forever leave its impress and
work its influence on our characters. Then
let the several deeds unite to form a day,
and, one by one, the days grow into noble
years, and the years, as they slowly pass,
will raise at last a beautiful edifice, endur-
ing forever to our praise.


26		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R.S. REPORTS.

	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Retrenchment Association, held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Satur-
day, July 8th, was of a most interesting
character. Counselor Mrs. Zina D. Young
presided in the absence of President Mrs.
M. I. Horne. Counselor Mrs. Zina D.
Young and Counselor Mrs. Sarah M. Kim-
ball, Mrs. Presinda Kimball, Mrs. E. S.
Barney and Mrs. Dunkinson each addressed
the meeting for a few minutes in succession,
also Mrs. Mary S. Clark of Farmington.
The subjects were HOME INDUSTRY, the silk
culture, the spirit of the present day, wo-
man's work, &c. Some other sisters bore
their testimony. The sisters seem alive in
the things pertaining to the kingdom of
God.

			GUNNISON, June 7, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society is in a very prosperous
condition. There is a good, genial, united
feeling among the members. The sisters
appointed to visit as teachers bring in ex-
cellent reports from their wards at our
monthly meetings, of good feelings and a
general tendency to improve among a large
majority of the sisters.
	Our President, Sister Sarah Copley, is a
Latter-day Saint, full of integrity; her ex-
ample and teachings cannot fail to have a
good effect upon those that are preparing
themselves for the great events with which
the future is fraught.
	Our Y. L. R. A. is making steady, though
perhaps slow, progress. The question
given at each meeting, to be answered at
the next, is answered by the girls very in-
telligently, throwing a good deal of true
life, light and interest into our meetings.
Our good girls are gradually overcoming
their excess of bashfulness and lack of con-
fidence, substituting intelligence and true
worth.
	Your sister in the Gospel,
				HELENA MADSEN.

	CLARKSTON, CACHE Co., June 5, 1876.
	Minutes of a meeting held by the Presi-
dent, Counselors and Teachers of the Clark-
ston Relief Society, for the purpose of or-
ganizing a Young Ladies' Retrenchment
Association.
	Meeting opened by singing and prayer.
President Ma[-]y Griffin and Counselor Ann
Smith spoke at some length, giving the
young people some very interesting and
instructive counsel. The Retrenchment
Association was then organized, with the
following officers:
	Miss Thurza Smith, President.
	"	Henrietta Smith,	}
	"	Merinda Homer,	}	Counselors.
	"	Stena Rasmusen,	}
	"	Lizzie Godfrey,	}
	"	Mary A. Homer, Secretary.
	Mrs. Martha Griffin, Treasurer.
	These officers were all unanimously ac-
cepted.
	Sister Grover then made a few excellent
remarks. Benediction by Sister Keep.
				MARY A. HOMER,
						Secretary.

	MORONI, SANPETE Co., May 29, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held a meeting on the 28th of April,
in connection with the Retrenchment So-
ciety. Our Bishop and Counselors attended
our meeting and gave good instruction.
Bishop Bradley said that we had a great
work to do and a very short time allotted us

[Column 2]
to work out our salvation. The world know
that there is something the matter, but
they do not know that the Lord is going to
set up his kingdom on the earth, and some
of the Latter-day Saints do not realize it;
he thought the sisters had done exceedingly
well, as money is very scarce in this part.
Brothers Swenson, Hardy and Christiansen
gave good instruction to the young sisters;
said they ought to be very careful in their
choice of husbands, or they may be carried
away from the right path.
	Our Society was organized January, 1868.
Donations in all to January, 1876:
	To Emigration........................  $165.24
	To the Poor............................... 480.00
	To the Temple.......................... 125.40
	To help the missionaries........    65.00
				Total...................  835.64
Besides owning shares in the Co-op. Insti-
tution.
	Our meetings are well attended, we take
great interest in them; we meet every two
weeks and bear our testimony of the latter-
day work. We are thankful that we hear
the words, through a prophet, of salvation,
exaltation and eternal life. Jesus has said,
"I am the Good Shepherd, I know my
sheep; a stranger they will not follow, but
will flee from him." It is our earnest de-
sire to oppose every evil influence that comes
in contact with the Holy Priesthood of
God, and show by our walk and conduct
that we have received from our Father in
heaven that Holy Spirit that will guide us
into all truth.
	With an earnest desire for the success of
the EXPONENT, I remain
			Yours truly,
						JANE BAILEY.

			SPRING CITY, June 6, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In reading the reports of the different So-
cieties we take great pleasure. They
plainly show the good efforts of the sisters
in almost every city or town of the saints.
Ours is a quiet little place, almost shut out
from the world, and yet we enjoy the Spirit
of the Lord.
	We held our annual meeting May 4th, it
being eight years since our society was or-
ganized. Our yearly report plainly showed
that the poor were not neglected; we have
some poor and old people who need atten-
tion, and we have some very good teachers
who strive to do their best in looking after
the needy. Our President, Mrs. M. A. P.
Hyde; is striving to her utmost, never ceas-
ing, for the benefit and advancement of the
good work in which she is engaged. We
had a party on the fifth, it being Sister
Hyde's birthday; the teachers thought they
would make a dinner for her. There were
quite a number gathered, and all enjoyed
themselves well. Sisters Wareham, Castoc,
and Cristaffersen were present from Manti.
They expressed their happiness at meeting
with the sisters, and finding everything so
pleasing; said they knew Mrs. Hyde to be
well worthy of our best affections. Presi-
dent Orson Hyde was present; he enjoyed
himself well and gave some good instruc-
tions, and was well pleased with the society;
encouraged us to go ahead, and referred to
the way government was working, that
robbery and fraud were increasing in nearly
all ranks of society, until an honest man
scarcely knew where to go to find peace and
safety.
	Bishop Olsen was also present; he spoke
and encouraged the sisters much and blessed
them for their noble efforts. We feel sure
that truth will yet prevail, for the Lord has
said it would, and it cannot fail whether we

[Column 3]
stand true and firm or not; but I hope we
will all be able to stand the great day of
proving, which has come and is coming
every day, and it is for us to watch our-
selves that we do not fall, but that we prove
faithful to the last, and put off all worldly
vanity and foolish pride, and to do our
Heavenly Father's will, that we may suc-
cessfully invoke His blessings on us, and
not provoke His wrath.
	Wishing your paper the best success and
the blessings of God to attend you in your
good efforts, I remain
			Yours truly,
						P.E. BENSON
							Secretary.

			SMITHFIELD, CACHE Co.,
						June 6, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our Annual meeting May 12th,
which was well attended, the sisters feeling
well and much interested in the welfare of
the Society. The Treasurer's report was
read and the financial account was found to
be in a prosperous condition; we have dis-
bursed during the past year $97.58 in help-
ing the poor, educating children, assisting
Emigration and temple funds; having now
funds in the hands of the Treasurer amount-
ing to $322.97. We are maki[-]g prepara-
tions to build a house for a store, and a
large room attached for meetings. Bishop
Roskelly gives the sisters all the encour-
agment in his power, and I believe we
shall be able to accomplish the object con-
templated, namely, a good house for the
use of the society.
		Yours in the Gospel,
				JANE S. COLEMAN,
							Secretary.

			KANOSH CITY,  May 28, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We are not a very large community, but
as we read so many encouraging letters in
the Exponent, it seems to inspire us to
emerge from our obscurity and "let our
light shine."
	Our Relief Society is small, compared
with many, but there is a good spirit pre-
vailing among the sisters, and all seem
willing to assist in pushing forward this
glorious work. We hold meetings once
every fortnight, working meetings and tes-
timony meetings alternately, and although
we seem to progress slowly, yet I trust
surely.
	Our President, Sister Adelie Kimball,
is very zealous aad persevering, and we all
like her very much.
	It cheers us to read so many encouraging
letters in the EXPONENT, from the different
settlements, and it is clearly evident that a
good spirit is manifesting itself among our
sisters in their different fields of labor, and
that all are striving to assist in building up
the kingdom of God, which kingdom is to
be established, nevermore to be thrown
down.
	Praying that the blessing of God may at-
tend the earnest endeavors of all who strive
to live their religion, believe me to remain
		Your sister in the Gospel,
					ADELAIDE TRIPPETT,
								Secretary.


VANDERBILT University, at Nashville,
Tennessee, has received another gift from
Commodore Vanderbilt of $500,000. The
sum total given by him to that institution
is $1,000,000.
	OF the 16 University Races, Harvard has
won 9, Yale 3, and other colleges 4.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
	OUR NATIVE LAND.

Let gifted poets sing of lands
	All bathed in tropic splendor,
Where Nature's overflowing hands
	Unasked, her hoards surrender;
Of radiant mornings, fervid noons, 
	And gorgeous eves declining;
Of nights illumed by silver moons
	O'ef placid waters shining.

Of sunlight on the laden vine,
	Of spicy breezes blowing;
Of fig and olive, blushing wine,
	And tropic Flora glowing:
Of bloody deeds, by voice of fame
	Rung through the sounding ages;
Where, fired by mad ambition's flame,
	Man in red war eugages.

Where few, elate in stony pride,
	Enslave the toiling many;
Where pallid want walks side by side
	With overflowing plenty;
Where noble men are those whose names
	Are crowued with titles sounding,
Regardless whether holy aims
	Are in their souls abounding.

My song shall celebrate the west—
	So famed in song and story—
Where freedom's eagle plumes his crest
	To win new heights of glory;
Where kingly mountains rear their heads,
	Their snowy chaplets wearing—
Bright streams run down their rocky beds,
	A rich abundance bearing

Here industry, a regnant queen,
	Has subjects brave and loyal;
Here, far and near, their works are seen
	In aspect truly royal.
Her lightning tongues, her steam-sped wheels,
	Her temples reared to learning,
Her busy marts, her fertile fields,
	Her tireless spindles turning.

Her villages that gem the plain,
	Her furnaces, red glowing,
Her stately ships that skim the main,
	Forever coming, going,—
These are the jewels in the crown
	Her noble brow adorning;
Her songs of peace shall ever drown
	War-bugles' dreadful warning.

This land is praised in ringing song
	By noble sons and daughters;
Who dwell her rugged hills among,
	And by her rushing waters;
Who poured their patriotic blood
	To rear her Constittuion,
Which gaurds the lovely sisterhood
	Of states which form the nation.

Here each who will may rise above
	Humanities dread level:
In deeds of moral worth and love
	The noblest spirits revel.
No chains of birth can fetter souls
	Whose wings are formed for soaring;
Each sovereign will his life controls,
	Without chill fear before him.

Then Heaven bless this happy land!
	The youngest of the nations--
Where native Worth's own stainless hand
	Adjusts our proper stations.
The past behind us glows with light,
	The future's smiles are cheering,
Free man's whole horizen is bright,
	And woman's sky is clearing.
LU DALTON.


For the EXPONENT.
	THE STAGE.

	Among the many prevailing modes of
education with which the present age is fa-
miliar, there is none which exercises great-
er control over the attention and sympathies
of the student than the dramatic stage.
	It is not merely a platform of boards, with
appurtenances of pasteboard and gilt. It is
not an idle show to attract people, for the
purpose of spending time and money fool-
ishly.
	It is not erected, as some think, to sus-
tain the weight of clowns who make others
foolishly happy by making themselves fool
ishly miserable—far from it.


To the eye of the intelligent auditor the
stage presents a more noble and engaging
spectacle—One from which a moral can be
deduced and a lesson learned, by all who
konw how to observe, reason and reflect.
To such, the rude carpets and paintings,
the colored and gilded canvas and paste-
board, become the paraphernalia of the
world in miniature.
	The shifting scenes, living events, the
actors in costume—beings such as we might
appear in different ages of the world. The
whole, a mirror where the varied passions
and actions of ourselves are reflected back
to us from the faces and forms of the devo-
tees of "Thespis."
	Remarkable coincidences of stage incident
and everyday life often occur, and we not
unfrequently witness a feature in a drama
that startles us with its similarity to cir-
cumstances immediately around us.
	Who can say that the scenes of love, duty,
virtue, madness, misery, and death, when
enacted by persons of genius on the stage,
are not faithful copies of incidents which
come under our daily observation? In this
lies the great benefit conferred by the stage
and its relations; for even as Hamlet used
the play as the thing "wherein to catch the
conscience of the king"—so can we by faith-
ful observation and study, school our own
natures, relinquish our vanities and follies,
despise vice and resist its temptations, pro-
mote our virtues, and copy the examples of
good which are thus forced upon our notice
by this reflective medium—this mirror of
life in all its phases.	THESPIS.


A FEW THOUGHTS ON OBEDIENCE.

	Obedience is a principle which we should
learn to observe, for without it we can never
be happy in this world, nor in the world to
come. Think what an immense amount of
confusion would be the result where obedi-
ence did not exist. Without it we would
have no spring, summer, autumn or winter
upon which we could depend, for if the
earth did not obey the law of God which
He has given, its movements could not be
relied upon, and wIth all the planets which
fill the heavens with such glory. By this
principle of obedience order is maintained
throughout the universe, amid all the crea-
tions of our God. Man alone, of all the
creations of our Father, exhibits disobedi-
ence and fails to observe the laws which his
Creator has given unto him.
	From the beginning of this Church until
the present, the men and women who have
been obedient to the counsel of God's ser-
vants have always been the most favored.
Our heavenly Father requires something
more of us than to be merely obedient to a
commandment when He gives it to us. He
desires us to strive to do good of ourselves,
without waiting to be commanded to do so.
When we look around and see who the men
are in this Church who have been most
blessed, they are those who have been the
most obedient, who have striven with the
greatest zeal to do good, and every one in
this Church should make it his or her chief
delight to be obedient, and should anxious-
ly engage in every good work possible; for
the power is in us if we live for it, for there
are great promises made to those who are
obedient.				ANNIE REEVES.
	CENTREVILLE, DAVIS Co.


[Column 1]
			WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MISS Ryland, who lately presented the
town of Birmingham, England, with the 
Cannon Hill Park, has just given forty acres

[Column 2]
of land at Small Heath, valued at $150,000'
for the formation of another park.
	MISS Kellogg will sing at the commence-
ment of Bowdoin College, Aug. 2, and will
receive in remuneration $500, free of all
expenses.
	MRS. Scott Siddons, now in New South
Wales, wrote to a friend in San Francisco,
that a remarkably handsome Fiji Islander
took a very great fancy to her, and wanted
to buy her of Mr. Scott Siddons, offering in
exchange six bunches of bananas.
	MISS Anna Dickenson has just completed
another new play. She has taken for her
plot and ground work the fortune of a Jew-
ess in different countries—England, France,
Germany, Russia and the United States.
It is said to possess merit and is particular-
ly noticeable for the strength with which
the principal characters are drawn. Miss
Dickenson intends playing the Jewess.
	MRS. Agnes Abbott Houghton delivered
an oration in Bath, Maine, on May 30th, at
the occasion of decorating the soldiers'
graves. She is the wife of a Universalist
minister.
	MISS Alison, who has charge of the Wo-
man's Pavilion at the Centennial Exhibition
at Philadelphia, speaks of the occupation of
running engines as a regular business for
women, as less tedious than almost any of
the usual vocations adopted by them:
she says an engine requires far less atten-
tion than any woman gives daily to a child.
She herself from a child was very fond of
machinery, nor do we think this an excep-
tional case; there are many women who de-
light in mechanism, and who have skill
and tact in that direction if they would
cultivate it; but thinking it out of woman's
sphere, confine themselves to work wholly
distasteful and unadapted to them.
	QUEEN Victoria, it is said, crosses the
Dee at this season almost daily. She uses
an open carriage, a wagonette or low pony
phaeton. No fuss attends her on these oc-
casions; an outrider a little in advance of
the carriage clears the road, and she passes
on quietly, nodding and smiling to those
who chance to meet her. The Queen and
her ladies frequently picnic in the woods,
or on the hillside. Materials to make a fire,
and cooking utensils, are taken in the car-
riage; tea made on the greensward and
handed round in rustic fashion without
any ceremony. The Queen's seat is often
on the stump of a tree, or any other casual
resting-place that is convenient.
	MRS. E. C. Stanton, Miss S. B. Anthony
and Mrs. M. J. Gage have opened parlors at
1431 Chestnut St., Phil., as their head-quar-
ters during the Centennial. They announce
a grand Mass Meeting for the 19th and 20th
of July, those days being the twenty-eighth
anniversary of one of the first Woman's
Rights Conventions ever held.
	MRS. Julia Sumner Hastings, a sister of
the late Charles Summer, and the last sur-
viving member of his direct family, died at
White Ranch, Marin Co., Cal., on Monday,
May 29th, 1876.
	MISS Minnie Hauck, a young lady singer,
has attained the position of a highly dis-
tinguished artist within a few years. Dur-
ing her tour on the continent of Europe
she was a great favorite, especially in Ger-
many and Hungary.


WHICH letter in the alphabet is the most
useful to a deaf lady? A; it will make her 
hear.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,
EMMELINE B. WELLS.		Editors.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to 
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 15, 1876.


[COLUMN 1]

PERVERTED AMBITION.

	It appears that children are born with the
propensity to over-estimate their abilities in
some form, and that this propensity develops
faster than any other.
	A sensible woman writer, years ago, cau-
tioned mothers and nursemaids against the im-
propriety of allowing young children to stand
or walk too long a time without resting. She
said that children at all delicate should not be
permitted to walk long at a time, but that
short efforts with intervening repose should be
the order of the nursery. When the bones
are in the least soft, it is incredible how much
mischief may be done by keeping the limbs
much on the stretch, or allowing them to sup-
port the trunk long at a time. Even healthy
children of two or three years of age, have be-
come indisposed by walking about a mile
without even being hurried.
	It is clearly evident that but few children
come into this world wanting a disposition to
see and do everything that can be seen or done.
The little feet are always inclined to be mov-
ing, long before the possibility of standing up-
on them becomes a distinct idea; while the
tiny fingers always in motion, and the won-
dering eyes always endeavoring to search out
some new curiosity, leave no room for doubting
that nature endows the human species with a
desire for knowledge and exertion. Alas! that
this sublime desire should in so many instan-
ces become so early perverted!
	How often astonishment is expressed by
parents that their sons or their daughters who,
in infancy and early childhood were so active
and full of life, exhibit, a few years later, such
a lack of energy, and are comparatively dull,
torpid, positively "lazy!" Some cause must be
assigned for such results; and if the subject
were thoroughly canvassed, it would, in all
probability, be ascertained in nearly every case,
that the individual had been allowed to exer-
cise too much while yet a child, when effort
should have been restrained rather than en-
couraged. In many instances children are
urged and required by thoughtless parents or
guardians to do more even, than childish am-
bition would incline them to accomplish. And
it is reasonable to suppose that no estimate
can be formed of the injuries which are liable
to be thus inflicted.
	Another great wrong is frequently done to
children by compelling them to do the very
work they most dislike, instead of encourag-
ing the natural inclination, and allowing them
the privilege of doing work in which they
would be most likely to excel.
	People caannot at all times control circum-
stances, and these evils cannot always be avert-
ed. But mothers need not, and should not call

[COLUMN 2]

their fast-growing girls idle or lazy, because
of the inertia they are sure to feel and must
indulge more or less. And fathers, doubtless,
do less good than harm, by making their
young sons blush to hear what wonderful days'
works they were in the habit of performing
when about the same age that their boys are
now. These same fathers would be more ca-
pable men to-day, if in youth they had kept a
portion of their strength in reserve instead of
exhausting the whole ere it had time to ma-
ture.
	If boys and girls must waste their energies,
however, it is far better that they waste them
in useful labor than in unprofitable pleasure.
Yet there are more young girls in these days,
who destroy their health by dancing and frolic-
ing too much, than there are who injure them-
selves with overwork. They should be taught
the folly of such a course, and, if possible,
brought to realize the danger without entailing
the actual consequences.
	Too few of our middle-aged women have the
freshness and vital strength which, with prop-
er use, they should retain, even when they are
grown old and are ripening for another sphere
of action. If the natural strength and vigor
of womanhood has not been dwarfed, or dead-
ened before marriage, it is most likely destroyed
in the early years of matrimony, by injudicious
measures, which, though often deemed neces-
sary, might in most cases be avoided. "Young
wives and mothers are too proud and too am-
bitious," says a woman of experience; "they
want to do every thing themselves, and be es-
teemed model housekeepers, when in fact they
are not through with the alphabet." The de-
sire of a young wife to have all things kept in
order about her home is perfectly right, and a
rule which should as far as possible be kept in-
violate. But still it is better to sacrifice a lit-
tle ambitious pride than for a mother to risk
her health and that of her offspring.
	Young men, and old ones too, in all parts of
the civilized world, and in all occupations,
may daily be seen exhibiting the same weak-
ness which characterizes the child just learn-
ing to walk—the propensity to overreach, to
accomplish more in some direction than the
Lord has given them ability to do. When
financial ruin comes, the cry is raised' "wo-
man's extravagance has wrought this evil!"
whereas it is merely the result of perverted am-
bition.
	That men and women walk side by side in
this path cannot be denied. And for the
heavier portion of blame to be shoved upon
the weaker vessel is perfectly natural to fallen
humanity, though most unjust.
	E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
				HOME AFFAIRS.

	NORMAL INSTITUTE.—At the Deseret Uni-
versity at 10 o'clock a. m:, Aug. 7th, the Teach-
ers' Normal Institute will open its session of 
two weeks, under the Presidency of Dr. J. R.
Park. The object is to discuss the best meth-
ods of instruction, and many talented teachers
will take part in it, giving their services.
	The Institute is free, and arrangements have
been made greatly reducing some attendant
expenses, railroad fare, etc;
	Theory and practice of teaching, Prof. L. F.
Monch;
	Reading, Prof. Chas. Davis;
	Arithmetic, Prof. T. B. Lewis;
	Geography, Prof. Chas. Wright;
	English Grammar, Prof. W. H. Rager;
	Orthography, Prof. Milton H. Hardy;
	Penmanship and Bookkeeping, Prof. F. M.
Bishop;

[Column 2]
	History and Natural Science, Prof. Karl G.
Maeser;
	Music, Prof. George Careless;
	Drawing, Geo. M. Ottinger;
	Object Lessons, Miss Ida I. Cook;
	Elocution, J. L. Rawlins
	This Institute affords excellent opportunities-
for instruction for persons who wish to become
proficient as teachers, and opportunities for
attainment and advancement like this, should
be improved by all who can possibly avail
themselves of them.
	THE LADIES' Centennial Territorial Fair now
open in the Old Constitution Buildings, is cer-
tainly a suceess in the exhibition of ladies' in-
dustrial home work. Very elegant and artis-
tic specimens of wax fruit and flowers, artificial
flowers for trimmings of all varieties and shades,
almost innumerable varieties of ornamental
and useful articles, for adding to the beauty
and comfort of home are there in profusion.
One of the chief features of the fair is the silk
word in all its various forms and stages of pro-
duction, from the egg to the cocoon, and from
them to the article reeled, spun and woven.
	Competent judges of manufactured lace, as-
sert the pillow, Eeru and Honiton lace on ex-
hibition there, that is equal in worth to manu-
factured elsewhere. There are many varieties
of articles too numerous to mention in detail.
The Fair possesses many attractions for stran-
gers and visitors, who can thus form some
idea of what Utah is doing. The ladies who
attend spare no pains in describing the articles
they have for sale or for show, and the price
of admission is only 10 ctc., which is so very
small that every person can assuredly visit it
and see the products and the handiwork of the
women of Utah.
	THE FOURTH of July in this Centennial year
of American Independence was enthusiastic-
ally celebrated in various parts of Utah. Can-
nons fire-works, processions, music, speeches
and all the appointments necessary to make a
great noise and great display were provided for
this joyful occassion, in most of the towns and
settlements. Ogden was the chief point. Our
space will not admit of details, evere one who
desired to participate in the enjoyments of the
glorious Fourth have had ample opportunity.
	SURPRISE PARTY.—On Wednesday, July
12th, a social party of ladies of this city went 
to Cottonwood, to celebrate the anniversary of
the birthday of Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, The
day was a fine one, and everything passed off
pleasantly. This lady is a charming hostess,
and one of those genial, genuine, whole-souled
women who attract and draw around them
hosts of friends.


EDITOR EXPONENT:
	If agreeable, please insert the following in
the EXPONENT.
	Some little time ago I sent a photograph of
President Young to a friend of ours in Eng-
land, and I extract a portion of the letter I got
back upon it.
		HANNAH T. KING.
	"I was agreeably surprised and pleased when
I saw the beautiful photograph of your Presi-
dent. Of the many pictures, caricatures rath-
er, I had seen of him, they tended to give the
very opposite impression of the man, and left
a sort of prejudice. Here is his veritable shad-
ow, sent from the spot where he resides, and 
through your hands! Do I believe in it? I
think I do indeed. It took me wholly by sur-
prise; I always had him in my mind—an en-
tirely different sort of face to this, which is
really a pleasure to look at; and the more I


look at it the better I like it! I have shown it
to many, and shall show it to more; all ex-
claim—"A different man to what I should have
thought!" or "to what he is represented both
in writing and in pictures!" all expressed
something in this style, and all said "It is a
fine face," or, "a good face," or, "a handsome
face.,' I say it is a splendid face and expres-
sion, and no person possessing the slightest
taste could pronounce it otherwise than good
and striking, dignified and genial. If there is
not a good heart beneath, the face is a lie! I
do thank you for it, I shall value it beyond
price, and I shall show it to those who con-
demn without knowing, who believe without
enquiring. It shall give the lie to many, or I
am much mistaken. I thank you for it very
heartily; next to your own none could please
me more."
	Another extract from same letter:—"You
say 'the photograph is a life-like likeness of
the most extraordinary man of the age;' I
agree with you; he is, to my mind, THE most
extraordinary man of the time, and of the age.
I have already told you what I think about it;
I am greatly interested in it, I admire it; I love
to show it to my friends and hear their re-
marks; I am proud of it, because you are my
friend and are intimate with him; he is your
chief and you believe in, and follow; he is the
abused of the abused. This photograph has
taken away all the prejudice I might once have
had, and tells me he is not the man he is rep-
resented to be so grossly. One has only to look
on that fine face to feel, to believe, that he is
belied beyond credence. It will indeed be
treasured by me and proudly shown to all.
Again, I thank you for it."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	29


ANNUAL MEETING DESERET
			SILK ASSOCIATION.

	One year ago to-day, June 15th, 1876, the
above named association was organized with-
out capital, yet, by the blessing of God upon
the diligence and perseverance of those who
labored, and the means appropriated by dona-
tion from different persons in the community,
the Society has been able to pay for nearly all
the cocoons that were for sale in the Territory.
Seventy lbs of cocoons have been disposed of
for reeling; fourteen lbs have been donated to
the Society.
	Seventeen silk pocket handkerchiefs, (a very
good article) have been woven, and twenty-
five yards more of the same material are now
in the loom; a sample silk stocking has been
knit on the Lamb's knitting machine; three
pounds of silk have been made into sewing
silk, floss and twist; this twist is for sale at the
Z. C. M. I. Some of the silk has been woven
into pillow lace. Some of the cocoons have
spoiled by moths and millers soiling them.
By referring to Mr. Piper's remarks in the
Deseret News, and carefully observing, these
difficulties may be obviated.
	A few large cocooneries will not [--] as benefi-
cial to the community as if farmers in general
would devote a portion of land to raising mul-
berry trees, which would give employment to
aged people and children, and would be a source
of wealth, as well as to promote industry.
	Utah is as good a climate for silk culture as
any in the world; samples of silk were taken
from Utah, by Elder Paul Schettler, to France
and Italy, and by competent judges there were
pronounced of the best quality. It now re-
quires quantity before machinery can be made
practicable, meantime, stockings, sewing-silk,
floss, &c., can be manufactured for home use.
	Although few in numbers, as yet, we hope
to see this enterprise prosper, as also all others


that will benefit the community. Hoping that
it may increase in interest each succeeding
year.
	ZINA D. YOUNG,
		President Deseret Silk Association.
	June 15th, 1876.
	The Deseret Silk Association met per ad-
journment, City Hall, Tuesday evening, July
11th, Mrs. Zina D. Young presiding. After
the meeting had been opened by prayer, and
the minutes of the last meeting read and ac-
cepted, Mrs. Young made a few remarks upon
the business, the success, etc. Bro. A. M.
Musser then gave some of his views in regard
to the course to be pursued; said he had 2,000
mulberry trees that were doing well; he an-
ticipated great results. Bro. Smith from Boun-
tiful, a silk weaver, spoke mostly upon the get-
ting of machinery; said it would be very little
expense to procure sufficient. Sister Smith
also made some excellent remarks. The silk
businesss is progressing slowly but effectually.
Some of the finest cocoons are now ready for
use. Miss M. A. Rockwood spoke of having
commenced to learn the silk reeling; she be-
gan about two months ago, and intended mak-
ing herself proficient in the silk work; was
pleased with the occupation. There is now a
very fair prospect for some real benefit to ac-
crue from the manufacture of silk in Utah, al-
though there must necessarily be time to bring
about any great purpose.
	ZINA D. YOUNG,
		President.


SPLINTERS.

			FOREIGN.
	An Art and Industrial Exhibition for
North Wales is to be held at Wrexham......
A Shakespeare Memorial Theatre and Pic-
ture Gallery are to be built in Stratford......
Mr. Spurgeon it is said will visit America
next Autumn...The Emperor has given 3,000
marks towards a monument for Luther in
Eisleben, his native town......In Shetland
the ministers are expected to be as hardy
as ponies and to live almost as cheap..........
Mrs. Craik, the author of "John Halifax,
Gentleman," is erecting a drinking fountain
near her residence in Kent with the addi-
tion of penny loaves and a money-box......
Twenty-four women burned to death in a
carpet manufactory in Ayr, Scotland, on
the 16th of June......Australia will exhibit
ninety-three varieties of apples at the Cen-
tennial Exhibition at Philadelphia......The
Emperor William of Germany when trav-
elling is unwilling to receive any distin-
guishing marks of attention.

				GENERAL.
	The new Masonic Hall, Buffalo, was ded-
icated June 24th with imposing ceremonies
......A new air line to Boston, by way of
New Haven, Middletown and Willimantic
Conn., will soon be completed......Dr. Le-
Moyne of Washington, Penn., has construct-
ed a furnace for the purpose of cremation
......John Neal, poet and author, died re-
cently at Portland, Maine, at the age of 83
......Prof. Botta of New York has been ap-
pointed by the Italian government commis-
sioner to the Exhibition at Philadelphia
......A terrible tornado in central Iowa on
Tuesday evening July 5th, great destruction
of life and property, one whole village
swept away—devastation dreadful......The
Emperor of Brazil made a speech in New
York on the 10th inst......Excessive heat in
New York, Washington and Philadelphia;
many deaths from sun-stroke......The He-
brews in the United States are preparing to
found a college in Cincinnatti......A large


number of buildings struck by lightning and
some people killed in New England......Six
companies of U. S. Infantry from Cincinnat-
ti gone to reinforce the army now operating
against the Indians......Postmaster Jewell
has resigned at President Grant's request.


For the EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S VOICE.
	I have just come home from Sunday
School; I have fed my silk-worms, attend-
to some other domestic duties, and now
I want to say a few words to the mothers.
	I am a teacher in the Sunday School,
where I take my six children when they
are well, and they are usually blest with
good health, for which I feel grateful; but
sometimes when they are not very well
through the week they seem to get better
for Sunday. I think mothers do not take
the interest in this great privilege they
ought; they might do many more things
than they do to help in the good work.
Mothers have a very important mission to
fill in this generation.
	Our children, even here in Zion, are
growing up without a knowledge of the
Gospel in a great measure; and parents are
to blame in many instances. We must
teach our children the word of the Lord,
and pratcise it ourselves, or we shall be held
accountable at the last day. I am interest
ed in the things of the kingdom of God,and
I would like to see every one working faith-
fully with their best ability.
	How can we sit down with our hands
folded and say all is well, and think we
are going to be saved in the Celestial king-
dom? The Lord says—"Serve me with all
thy might, mind and strength, and pray
without ceasing."
	I think woman has so much to do and to
learn that she has no time to spend on tri-
fles; but as wife and mother to be up and
doing. We must learn what we came here
for; assuredly it was not to waste time in
vanity and folly. We must learn of the
things of God and practise true principles.
If woman is to be a companion, a counselor
to man, and he attains to thrones, principal-
ities and powers, the wife to be his equal
and stand by his side, what a vast work lies
before her to perform; it is said one is not
without the other in the Lord.
	Sisters, we must train our children in the
right way, that they may be an honor to us;
let us gain wisdom and get understanding,
that we may teach our children in the ways
of the Lord. I realize it is the mother that
makes the man; then how great the respon-
sibility of mothers, to instil into the minds
of their children truth, honesty and virtue.
I believe there are many noble spirits ruined
through tne weakness and indulgence of
parents. They smile and flatter the child
in doing wrong when it is little, because it
is too young to correct, and when it grows
bigger it is too large and old and knows
more than its parents; then comes the fruits
of what they have sown. Let every one
learn not to smile or encourage wrong even
in a child.	M. A. W.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THE Italians bring up from the bottom of
the Mediterranean yearly 150,000 pounds
of coral worth $1,150,000.
	The engine that furnishes steam at the
Centennial weighs 800 tons.
	THERE are 662 miles of water pipes in
the city of Philadelphia, and 72 drinking
fountains.


30		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT.
		MARRIAGE AND WIVES.

		BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

		Wedded love is founded on esteem,
		Which the fair merits of the heart engage;
		For those are charms which never can decay.
		But time, which gives new whiteness to the swan,
		Improves its lustre.
								FENTON,
	It has become proverbial now that there
are not as many marriages as there
used to be. Looking about for reasons,
many unjust and illogical conclusions are
drawn. The reason most generally assigned
by men is that a wife in this day is too ex-
pensive an article to keep. "It costs so
much to support a wife, that is the reason
young men don't marry," and the mother
is blamed in most instances because she has
indulged her daughter, or has not sufficient-
ly impressed upon her mind the prepara-
tions for housekeeping, or the subject of
domestic economy. Fathers very seldom
come in for any share of the blame, no matter
how much they have petted or neglected the
daughter's true interests, it is her mother
that has not taught her properly, that has
failed in some particular to do her whole
duty, this is the verdict.
	Allow me to say, with all due deference
to men, that if they would regard women
as rational beings, and not encourage, by
precept or example, the idea that fragility
and weakness were womanly and fascinat-
ing qualities, that woman's charms were
enhanced by her very dependence, that her
sweetness consisted in her incapacity to
stand alone, to do battle with the world in-
dependently; in short, that her reliance up-
on a stronger nature was an absolute neces-
sity, it would tend to make women better
and nobler. If such is really the case, then
she is not a perfectly developed woman,
and would, under any circumstances, be in-
capable of standing alone. To be sure one
must be well balanced within and without
to be capable of acting under the various
circumstances of life wisely, but as a wife
and mother is there not just as much need
of wisdom? Do not men in thousands of
instances look to the wife for courage, for
strength of purpose to assist them in the
vicissitudes of life? Failures in business,
which occur so frequently, are borne with
far greater heroism by women than men,
usually speaking.
	Do not farmers (for instance) expect their
wives to do all the general housework,
make butter, milk cows, etc., with very lit-
tle hired help, while they perhaps keep sev-
eral hired hands which these same wives
must cook for etc.; and perhaps they have
a family of little children who require con-
stant care and attention, sometimes keep-
ing them awake all the night, sick and rest-
less. Do men realize that these burdens
press heavily?
Surely the woman who can so systematize
her work as to keep the machinery of the
household running on smoothly and quiet-
ly from day to day, and year to year, and
wear a pleasant countenance, be always neat
and tidy in her own appearance is indeed a
marvel. It requires a vast amount of patience,
care, prudence and forethought to accomplish
woman's household labor.
	There are very few men, comparatively
speaking, who are competent to judge by a
woman's dress or housekeeping whether
she is extravagant or not. There are many
women who have a faculty of making old
things look stylish and almost new, who
seem to possess the good tact and perfect
taste to make all that is around them

[Column 2]
harmonize, to soften and tone down that
which would otherwise be glaring and un-
pleasant to the sight. Yet how few men
comprehend these little trifles that make
up so much of the sum of domestic happi-
ness.
	How many wives there are whose sole
motive seems to be to please their husband
and their God, and of those who make duty
their chief aim and study how many fail
to win one word of commendation from the
husbands who have promised to love and
cherish them.
	And is it not necessary for them to be
self-reliant if they must live self-contained
lives? Then the best education for woman
as well as man, is that which develops all
the faculties and powers God has given
them. Let each one of either sex take a
reasonable view of life from an enlightened
stand-point, and he or she will enter into
the marriage relations not from impulse,
or under the impression that they are going
to wed an angel, but a rational human
being, with tastes and desires and feelings
like others. Find out the intrinsic value of
the soul of the one you would wed, the
fineness of the web and woof. Do not mar-
ry for a fine face or a fine form, nor for any
foolish idea about affinities; for all these
will vanish when the toils and hardships of
life come upon you, but if there is a genu-
ine fountain of truth and virtue and moral
integrity to supply the place of beauty and
wealth and show, you will be well provided
in any emergency. A man or woman who
does not love another because he or she is
poor, does not love at all, they are not capa-
ble of loving. There must be some inher-
ent goodness of heart where there is true
affection. Marriage under all circumstan-
ces and for both parties interested requires
self-denial; and selfishness seems to be the
ruling spirit of the age.


NO SECRETS.

	The moment a girl has a secret from her
mother, or has received a letter she dare
not let her mother read, or has a friend of
whom her mother does not know, she is in
danger. A secret is not a good thing for a
girl to have. The fewer secrets that lie in
the hearts of women at any age, the better.
It is almost a test of purity. She who has
none of her own is best and happiest.
	In girlhood, hide nothing from your
mother; do nothing that, if discovered by
your father, would make you blush. When
you are married, never, never, never con-
ceal anything from your husband. Never
allow yourself to write a letter that he may
not know all about, or to receive one that
you are not quite willing he should read.
Have no mysteries whatever. Tell those
who are about you where you go and what
you do. Those who have the right to know,
I mean, of course.
	A little secretiveness has set many a scan-
dal afloat; and much as is said about women
who tell too much, they are much better off
than women who tell too little. A man
may be reticent and lie under no suspicion;
not so a woman.
	The girl who frankly says to her mother:
"I have been there. I met so and so. Such
and such remarks were made, and this or
that was done," will be certain of receiving
good advice and sympathy. If all was
right, no fault will be found. If the moth-
er knows out of her greater experience
that something was improper, or unsuitable,
she will, if she is a good mother, kindly
advise against its repetition.
	It is only when mothers discover that
their girls are hiding things from them that


they rebuke or scold. Innocent faults are
always pardoned by a kind parent.
	You may not know, girls, just what is
right—just what is wrong yet. You can't
be blamed for making little mistakes, but
you will never do anything very wrong if
from the first you have no secrets from your
mother.
				MARY KYLE DALLAS.
	—N. Y. Ledger.


FLOWERS.

	The smallest hair casts its shadow.
	A GOOD smile is the sunshine of wisdom.
    —Hosea Ballou.
	No man was ever scolded out of his sins.
    —Cowper.
	A JUDICIOUS silence is always better than
truth spoken without charity.—De Sales.
	THE most difficult thing in life is to know
yourself.—Thales.
	THE greatest truths are the simplest, and
so are the greatest men.—Hare.
	THE greatest good fortune is that which
amends our imperfections, and balances our
faults.
	REMEMBRANCE is the only paradise out
of which we cannot be driven away.—Rich-
ter.
	IN character, in manner, in style, in all
things the supreme excellence is simplicity.
—Longfellow.
	LOVE of truth shows itself in discovering
and appreciating what is good wherever it
may exist.
	OUR Lord has written the promise of the
resurrection, not in the Bible alone; but in
every leaf in springtime.
	TO have a respect for ourselves, guides
our morals; and to have a deference for
others, governs our manners.—Sterne.
	MOST of the shadows that cross our path
through life, are caused by us standing in
our own light.
	EVERYTHING is pernicious that emanci-
pates our intellect without at the same time
strengthening our self-control.
	WE cannot conquer fate and necessity,
yet we can yield to them in such a manner
as to be greater than if we could.
	I THINK the first virtue is to restrain the
tongue; he approaches nearest to the gods
who knows how to be silent, even though
he is right.
	SKEPTICISM has never founded empires,
established principles or changed the
world's heart. The great doers in history
have always been men of faith.—Chapin.
	FAITH is a domestic and private capital;
there are public savings banks and relief
funds, out of which individuals receive as-
sistance in times of scarcity; but here the
believer himself silently draws his interest.


An exacting temper is one against which
to guard both one's own heart and the na-
ture of those who are under our control and
influence. To give and to allow, to suffer
and to bear, are graces more to the purpose
of a noble life than cold, exacting selfish-
ness which MUST HAVE, let who will go
WITHOUT; which will not YIELD, let who
will BREAK. It is a disastrous quality
wherewith to go through the world; for it
receives as much pain as it inflicts, and cre-
ates the discomfort it deprecates.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.

			CLARKSTON, CACHE Co.,
						May 21, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We, the sisters of Clarkston, would
like to mingle our voices with the rest of
our sisters, as we are engaged in the same
great work of helping to build up the king-
dom of God in the last days. The Relief
Society of this place was re-organized on
the 12th of January, 1875.
	Sister Mary Griffin is our President, and
Sisters Ann Keep and Sarah Jane Carbine
her Counselors, Jane Godfrey, Secretary,
Theophine Griffiths, Treasurer. We have
our meetings semi-monthly. Since our re-
organization we have done what good we
could in assisting the poor, the widow
and the orphan, and also in translat-
ing the Book of Mormon into the Spanish
language. Our settlement is small, but the
sisters in general seem to be willing to do
all the good they can; we have a good pres-
ident, full of integrity, always on hand to
lead out in any and every enterprise for the
upbuilding of the kingdom of God.
	Yours in the cause of truth,
						JANE GODFREY.

				SANTAQUIN, May 25, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	As it is seldom that this place is represent-
ed through your columns, I thought I would
write and let you know what we are doing
here in this part of the Lord's vineyard. I
think that the most of the people here are
trying to live their religion and serve God.
Our Sabbath meetings are well attended.
Our Relief Society is doing well under the
Presidency of Sister E. G. Stickney. On
Monday, the 22nd inst., our Bishop and
twelve of the most prominent ladies of San-
taquin, including the president and counsel-
ors of the Relief Society, president of the
Young Ladies, Improvement Association,
and other officers of both societies went
down to Spring Lake and organized a branch
Relief Society in that place; it being too far
for sisters with small families to attend the
meetings here. By unanimous vote the fol-
lowing named sisters were appointed and
set apart as officers at Spring Lake under
the presidency of Santaquin: Mrs. Eliza-
beth Broadbent President, Mrs. Melissa
Babbit and Sarah A. Jonson Counselors, Mrs.
Delcenia Babbit Secretary, and Mrs. Mar-
garet Spanihowr Treasurer. President
Stickney read the instructions Miss E. R.
Snow published in the "Deseret News" of
April 23rd, 1868. The Bishop gave the sis-
ters a great deal of very good and valuable
instruction.
	I can say that our Young Ladies' Improve-
ment Association is doing well; our young
ladies are improving rapidly; we hold our
meetings once a week, which are generally
very interesting. We have a weekly man-
uscript paper which is composed entirely of
original compositions, which is read every
meeting by some of our young ladies; the
name of the paper is "Our Young Ladies'
Thoughts." We have had no work done in
our meetings until lately, but now we are
making a quilt for the benefit of the Temple,
and as soon as that is finished we intend to
make some other things for the same pur-
pose, for we desire to do all we can to for-
ward the work of the Lord.
	Our young people have not indulged in
round dancing this past winter, and all our
parties, since we heard the instructions of
President Young, have been dismissed at
10 o'clock, and all seem satisfied with it.
	The EXPONENT is read with great inter-

[Column 2]
est in all our meetings; we feel we could
not do without it, and wish it every suc-
cess.			Ann J. STICKNEY,
					Sec'y Y. L. I. A.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	A Providence girl's expressive descrip-
tion of the Centennial show:
		Philadelphia, June, 1876.
	Dear mother:—Oh! Oh!! Oh!!! Oh!!!!
O-o-o-o-o-o-h!!!!!
	Your affectionate daughter,
		MARY.
	SCOTCH SAYINGS.—A doar plaat wi a mon's
name on's a vaary good thing, but a dinner
plaat wi a mon's dinner on's a better.
	"SILENCE in the court-room there,"
thundered a police magistrate; "the Court
has already committed four prisoners with-
out being able to hear a word of their testi-
mony.
	THE hog may not be thoroughly posted
in arithmetic, but when you come to square
root he is there—the hog is.
	Who is the straightest man mentioned in
the Bible? Joseph; because Pharaoh made
a ruler of him.
	A DOCTOR'S wife, who attempted to move
her husband by tears, was answered thus;
"Ann, tears are useless; I have analyzed
them; they contain a little phosphate of
lime, some chlorate of sodium, and that's
all."
	"SAM, what do you suppose is the reason
that the sun goes towards the south in the
winter?" "Well, I dunno, massa, 'less he
no stand de climate of norf, and so am
bliged to go to de souf where he speriences
warmer longitude."
	A "PERSONAL" in a New York daily a
short time ago stated that, "If John Brown,
formerly of Philadelphia, will call at No.
— Bank Street, he will hear something to
his advantage." John Brown called; there
was about two hundred and fifty of him—
and he has been calling at the rate of forty-
seven per day ever since the personal ap-
peared.
	THE jealous man is always hunting for
something he doesn't expect to find, and
after he has found it, he is mad because he
has. He is always happy just in proportion
as he is miserable.


PIPSEY PAPERS.

	I intended to write something of our So-
ciety business the next time, but I feel so
little in the humor of writing that I scarcely
know where to comm[--]ce.  The principal
item of interest at present is the Arfzona
mission. The bishop said we had an op-
portunity of helping the missionaries to
an outfit. We accordingly worked with
our sincere good will, and provided what
we could for the family that was called from
our ward. There was a party made for the
Arizona boys, as a farewell compliment, and
we thought it was all over.
	The young man who was sent from the
Second ward had started a few days before,
but his team being weak and his heart per-
haps weaker, he returned to attend the
farewell ball. He waited on a young lady
who, it is said, he had been casting a wish-
full eye towards. I suppose he found the
ball a success; he succeeded at any rate in
persuading the young lady to cast her lot
with his and try the Arizona mission.
	As she belonged in our ward, we took an


interest in fitting her out and supplied her
needs as well as we could. Nine days from
the time he tried his fate he started on his
way rejoicing, with a stronger team and
a braver heart, with a loving wife and the
best wishes of true friends, that their jour-
ney through life might not all be so rough
as at the beginning. If I was a novelist it
would furnish the plot for an interesting
story; but, as it is, I can only give you the
circumstance, which was very interesting
to us at the time, I can assure you.
	Our Society had been for some time talk-
ing of making a ball, and after our mission-
ary labors were over we turned our atten-
tion to that. Wishing to carry out the
President's counsel, we issued our tickets
for the next Friday at two p. m. We met
accordingly at Academy Hall. The ball
was opened by prayer, and while a portion
were dancing, a committee appointed for
the purpose laid the table in the lower part
of the hall, which was abundantly large,
arranging the picnic as it was brought in.
At four o'clock we partook of a very nice
supper, after which the tables were cleared,
the hall filled with dancers, and all went
merry as a marriage bell. At ten o'clock
our Bishop offered a prayer and dismissed
us. It was a very enjoyable affair, and the
best of order and good feelings prevailed.
	A few days later we were called to part
with a beloved sister, Mrs. Harriet Roberts,
relict of the late Horace Roberts of Provo.
She was a kind mother, a faithful saint, and
an active member of our society; she be-
longed to the board of appraisal. She died
after a protracted illness, beloved and re-
spected by all who knew her.
		No costly monument shall mark
		The place where thou art sleeping,
		But angel bands and loving hearts,
		Their silent watch are keeping.
								MARY.
Provo, June 3, 1876.


PRAYER.

	Prayer is one of the most beautiful sub-
jectf that can be spoken of, or written up-
on; it is the only medium through which
we can hold communion with God, the only
true source from which we can receive
comfort and consolation. When our minds
are darkened, troubled, clouded or depressed,
in all our sorrows and afflictions, we can go
before our Father in heaven, in faith and
humility of heart, and have the assurance
that He will hear and answer our prayers.
Jesus, when teaching his disciples to pray,
told them to use simple words, and he
charged them not to make vain repetitions,
like the heathen, and above all not to make
long prayers like the Pharisees, who think
to be heard for their much speaking. We
read in the Bible that Hezekiah, after he
had received the message of death, through
prayer had his days lengthened fifteen years.
And many other instances are mentioned
in the Bible of prayer being answered; and
in our daily life we can see wherein our
prayers have been answered to the very let-
ter. What is there more pleasing than to see
a little child scarcely able to articulate the
words, kneeling by its mother's knee, lisp-
ing a little prayer which she has taught it,
asking God to "bless papa and mamma,"
&c.? Or what will cause a parent's heart
to rejoice more, than to peep into the cham-
ber of their son or daughter of riper years,
and to find them, before retiring, upon their
knees, thanking God for his past blessings,
and asking him to preserve them through
the night and unto the end of their days.
And we feel sure their prayers will be heard
by Him who heareth in secret and reward-
eth openly.


32		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE LITTLE ORPHAN,

	As I bent myself to tuck the bed-clothes
more closely over an orphan child, a thrill
passed through my mind—do it well, for
you do it for another whose hands are fold-
ed to return to her mother dust. Speak
kindly, for those lips are sealed, and that
heart beats not who would wish you so to
do; that precious mother lives in the sun-
shine of God, for she was a Saint. The
father, far away and weary, is perhaps
wrapped in the arms of sleep; he too is
dead to the wants of the little ones. I stand
alone to act for them both. May God give
me wisdom to do it well. I looked at the
lone one sleeping and thought: You too are
dead at this moment to all sorrow! Absent
father! Departed mother! I live—precious
moment—striving to do all things well, and
tuck carefully the frail wrappings of the
bed-covering, but take care to place gently
but firmly the garments of charity and
kindness around the orphan, for his soul
will live, when earthly wrappings are no
more needed.
					DIANTHA BAKER.
	S. L. CITY, May 1, 1876.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Ventilation.—Many people do not understand
how essential perfect ventilation is to refreshing
sleep. The best method is to leave a window par-
tially open. If it is raised a little at the bottom
and let down even half an inch at the top it makes
a material difference.
	Inability to Sleep.—This is something which
should be guarded against by every possible
means. It is one of the significant indications of
nervous irritability or mental excitement, and may
at any time, without positive warning, result in
the form of uncontrolable violence.
Care of the Feet.—Great care should be taken to
keep the feet thoroughly clean. Some people
talk a great deal about cold feet and vica versa, but
seem to reflect but little upon their cleanliness.
There is no portion of the body that requires more
care in this respect than the feet. The soles of the
feet contain large pores that both absorb and repel
fetid matter to a greater or less extent. The feet
should always be washed every day and the stock-
ings changed, if they are only aired and sunned
and then worn again. The old fashioned practice
of making children put their stockings in their
shoes at night, because it is orderly and tidy, is an
unhealthy one, as, is putting one's night clothes
under the pillows; instead of this, put them where
the air and sun will penetrate them.
	The Pulse.—Every person should be able to
ascertain the state of the pulse in health, and then
to compare it with the pulse when ailing, would
give some correct idea of the condition of the pa-
tient. Every mother in particular should under-
stand the [-]pulse of her children, as there are in-
stances where children are born with a peculiarly
slow or fast pulse, which of course would be neces-
sary to consider when there was any ailment. Or-
dinarily, according to some of the most authentic
calculations, an infant's pulse is 140 beats a min-
ute, a child of seven years about 70, declining to
60 at fourscore. At 60 if the pulse always ex-
ceeds 70 there is a disease of some part of the sys-
tem, or fever or inflammation. In consumption
the pulse is quick.


IVY FOR looking glasses: Have a little
flower-pot with earth, or a glass with water,
hang it at the back of the glass and plant
in it a slip of ivy. When the branches grow
they can be trained around the frame in
such a way as to entirely hide the source,
and decorate the frame in any way desired.


[Column 1]
	DAVID JAMES,
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
	RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
	Address, David-James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

				Now Receiving, at
	TEASDEL'S,
	The first arrival of Spring Styles, Prints, Dress Goods,
Flowers, &c.
	Ladies will please call, as good attention to low
prices, and full assortment on hand.
S. P. TEASDEL, Eagle House.

	E. AUERBACH & BRO
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers In
			Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
				Pipes, Cutlery, Etc,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
	ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
	the Old Fashioned House.

	HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
	Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD, Four 
	doors below Walker House, and examine our 
	goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
		take pleasure in making to order, such
			brushes as we have not on hand.
							Wm. H. MILES, Supt.

[Column 2]
R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
		Manufacturers of
ESSENCE OF JAMAICA GINGER,
	TOILET SOAP, (Highly Perfumed,)
BATH SAND TABLETS,
		Indispensable to the Toilet and Bath Room.
SCOURING SOAP,
		A great Saving of Labor to the Housekeeper.
SUPERIOR WRITING FLUID,
	One of the best flowing and durable Inks ever made.
	We Warrant our Articles Pure.
		JOSEPH L. BARFOOT, Chemical Director.
Addres	R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
	Lock Box 1064.		Salt Lake City.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Is now prepared for the Spring Trade, with all the
latest styles of Hats and Bonnets, and newest shades of
Silks and Ribbons. Flowers in endless variety.
	Ladies attending Conference should call and see her
fine assortment, which cannot be excelled in quality and
price. 				17, East Temple street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.

	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
				in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

		THE KIND OF
	BOOTS AND SHOES
EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
			priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN’S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
	At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
			D. M. McALLISTER, Supt.

			LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substantia.
		Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
					them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
	They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
			BUTTER and EGGS,
					F. GOSS, Supt.

EVERY DESCRIPTION
			OF
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
		AND
GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

		H. E. PHELPS,
			2[-] EAST TEMPLE STREET.

H. DINWOODEY
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


BABIES' LEGS.—Bow-legs and knock-
knees are among the common deformities of
humanity; it is generally supposed these
results are in consequence of the child
having been put upon its feet too soon. An
eminent physician in Massachusetts thinks
differently; he attributes bow-legs to the
habit some babies delight in of rubbing the
sole of one foot against that of the other;
he says he has noticed some babies go to
sleep with the soles of their feet pressed to-
gether, it is particularly when their feet
are naked that they enjoy this; they sel-
dom attempt it when in socks or shoes; the
remedy, then, is to keep the baby's soles
covered. Knock-knees the doctor ascribes
to the childish habit of sleeping on the side
with one knee tucked into the hollow be-
hind the other; he says he has found that
where one leg has been bowed in more than
another, the child has always slept on one
side and the upper member has been the
one deformed. The preventive would be
to pad the inside of the knees so as to keep
them apart, and let the limbs grow freely
their own way.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

