A few years ago one of our Stake Presidents brought up this question in our Officers' Meeting. She said, "You know out in our Stake we have been making some very beautiful quilts, and one of the well-to-do women in Salt Lake found out about it, and asked us to make a quilt for her. We did not charge her very much for it, and she told everybody in her neighborhood. We soon received several orders for quilting and we were terribly over-worked— even had to neglect our homes to finish them. I think this was poor management on our part, and very poor business." I believe we are all agreed that if you are doing quilts for custom work you should charge what your time is worth. On the other hand where you are doing quilts for needy families, we are very happy and glad, as you always are, to have that done for nothing in connection with our regular welfare work. We are more than willing to do sewing for people who need it, but where we are out to make money by quilting, let us charge enough so that we can pay for the time that we spend. You will remember that at our April Conference we decided to adopt a uniform Membership Card 707 in the Relief Society. It was announced at that time that the General Board would be pleased to furnish these cards for the Stakes, and that we would begin using this uniform card in January, 1936. Some of the Stakes have in the past already had membership cards which they furnished for themselves. This little yellow card I am presenting has lettering in blue. It represents Relief Society colors, and it reads: "Membership Card, National Woman's Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1936. Name.................. Stake... Ward............ This card will serve as a receipt when the Annual Dues are paid, and the Secretaries should be supplied with them and should see that when a woman pays her Dues this Membership Card is given to her. During the Conference Relief Society Stake Presidents may call at the Relief Society office for the cards. Each Stake will be given a number of cards equal to the membership report last December by such Stake. These cards are now ready for you. We expect to extend the use of this card to the Missions, but our final arrangements have not been made as yet. For a number of years the question has come up regarding membership, and membership dues. The Relief Society has really struggled with this problem. I think I never visit a Stake, and I believe most of the General Board members can say the same, but what I am asked. "What are we going to do about inactive members in the Relief Society? May we have two rolls? What about Dues for the inactive members?" Last Spring at our President's Breakfast, we had half a dozen letters asking about this. The General Board has very prayerfully 708 and studiously considered this matter, and at last we have reached some conclusions in the matter, which we hope will be satisfactory to you, and I believe they will be. I am going to read some rulings recently made. Membership in Relief Society I. Beginning January, 1936, a Membership Card will be used in the Relief Society, and will be given as a receipt for Annual Dues. (These cards will be furnished free to Stakes and Wards.) II. Membership in the Relief Society is based on the following: (a) Attendance at Relief Society meetings. (b) Payment of Annual Dues. (c) General interest in all other phases of Relief Society work. The Relief Society roll may be divided into three sections: Section A. For active members, (Attendance Roll). Section B. For honorary members who pay Dues but are unable, through illness or other circumstances, to attend meetings. Section C. For inactive members of the organization — those who fail to attend meetings, and fail to pay Dues for one year. Note 1. Every effort should be made to encourage inactive members to become active and participate in all phases of the work. However, they should be informed of the requirement for active membership.: Note 2. Where a faithful member of the organization, whether active or honorary, III. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is unable to pay her Dues for a given year, arrangements should be made by the Ward Officers to pay such Dues and present her with a Membership Card. Such Dues may be taken from the General Fund. IV. A record should be kept of the transfer of inactive to active members, and a note of this made on the Annual Report under "Remarks." V. Percentage of Membership Dues will be based on the active and honorary rolls, but all enrolled members will be counted in the statistics of the organization. We believe that this will take care of all the troubles that you have all been having regarding membership, dues and the rolls. We realize that there are women in the Relief Society who would feel badly to have their names taken from the rolls. In some cases they have paid their dues, but in others they have not, and it has been a burden for the Ward Presidents to try to raise their dues to 100%. Before closing I would just like to express appreciation for the excellent work you are doing in the Stakes and Wards. I wish you could hear the reports that are given by the General Board members when they return from the Stake Conference-conventions regarding the work you are doing and the fine topics your workers present on the convention programs. We. Still have some Stakes to visit, those which have not been visited will be visited after the October Conference. We are conscious at all times of the splendid work you are doing, and as a General Board we extend to you our thanks and gratitude. Our constant prayer is that the Lord will RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE bless and strengthen you in all your efforts; that He will help you to be pillars of strength morally and spiritually in your communities; that He 709 will help you to maintain all the standards of the Church; and we ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. The address of Mark K. Allen will appear in a later issue. Officers Meeting The Relief Society MAGAZINE ELNORA SHUPE President Maricopa Stake Relief Society It is conceded that any organization, whether national or local, whether religious or civic, needs a guide or organ of functioning authority to direct its officers and members in their concerted action, first for the progress of the organization, and second for the mutual benefit of its members. Our National Woman's Relief Society is not to be behind any like organization in its up-to-date mediums of expression, so we have the organ we are proud to own and foster the world over as The Relief Society Magazine. As the Church has grown, so has our Magazine, until today it has become the central means through which a great organization operates. Different departments have been formed to spread current happenings from one field to another, to teach social service, which is so important today, to teach the beauty of enriching literature, science and the arts, extolling the accomplishments of great men and women, and to give an outlet to the genius of its own members in presenting its interesting and invigorating stories together with choice and inspired verse. By reading its pages we will never cease to maintain the high ideals and standards of Relief Society. It is indispensable in our work, since it prints our lessons which have been prepared by experts in their line. As I read them over each year, I cannot help feeling they have been inspired for they teach the very. Things we need most. The Magazine is a medium of education. Thousands of women who have not had opportunities of a college education are getting training equal to that received in universities through courses published in our Magazine. Can one sister in our Church afford to be without it? We look upon it as a messenger coming into our homes each month, to bring cheer and happiness, and to help us solve the problems of life. All members are not privileged to attend these wonderful Conferences, but the Magazine brings many of the lovely things we hear to them. While we are all anxious to go over the top with our Drive and get 100%, yet we feel that obtaining this record is not the paramount issue. Our greatest desire is that the Magazine shall be read by young and old and their lives enriched through its varied program. Greater efficiency in our organization will be and has been the result of increased subscriptions. We have arranged to have socials in favor of the Magazine. Each of our members was presented with a bank. At these socials the husbands 710 were also invited, and before we partook of the lovely luncheon that was prepared (we invited our member from the Priesthood)—one of the High Council gave a talk on the Magazine, and then he asked all of the husbands present to put some pennies in the banks. Just before our season's work commenced, we planned a bank opening day, and at this time we found that not only had the sisters put in sufficient pennies for their Magazine but many of them had also enough for their Annual Dues. This year we have had what we called our "Agents Original Campaign." Our Agents decided to put this Magazine campaign over themselves, and they have done many things to get sufficient money to place our Magazine in the homes of our sisters who are worthy, but who cannot afford to subscribe. In every stake we have these sisters—the best in the world—but they are sometimes not even able to raise the dollar for the Magazine, and so these Ward Agents have done things in such a way that these women have participated, and they have felt that they have earned this money, and are not receiving charity by having the Magazine placed in their homes. They have placed the Magazine on the shelves of our public libraries. Another thing they: did to stimulate interest in the Magazine was to ask the members of the Priesthood to make use of the Magazine in the Sunday evening addresses, giving some outstanding thoughts from our Magazine, so that the people would appreciate it and know its worth. We tried this this last month before the close of our Drive. We should all choose agents who are efficient leaders, who are Magazine conscious, and who have salesmanship ability. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Our Stake Board gave a party for our Ward Journal Agents, and each one was presented with a notebook in which was to be kept a record of Magazine subscriptions. Our Stake Agent instructed each Ward Agent that she should take the entire roll from our Ward Secretary, that she have the address of every woman in her ward, that she should also have the date of the subscription and when it expired. This notebook is just of a size that she could carry it with her. It is also a part of her duty to get the names of new members in the Ward to tell of the beauties of the Magazine and try to place it with new subscribers. We know that renewals are much easier where we have a permanent record kept. This year we have five Tuesdays in this month. We have already had one of our meetings, and this meeting was taken entirely from our Relief Society Magazine. Suggestions for our refreshments were taken from it, and we felt that it would impress the practical value upon the women. Our sisters sometimes are so busy that they fail to read some of the lovely things, but if their attention is called to some of them we feel that they can go home and read more than they have ever done before. We have a special activity each month of the year, and our October activity, of course, is our Magazine, so we meet in our stake meeting with all of the Ward Agents and get a report from them. In our meeting last Sunday some agents reported that some of our Wards have already over 100%. One of our largest Wards has 106%. The rest assured us that they would all have their quota before the drive finished. Our Magazine will continue to grow, and growing under the sun of RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE high ideals and drawing water and food from minds of clean, honest, charitable and industrious women, will be a mighty factor in training and education. It is beyond the pale of imagination to estimate its value today not to mention its influence in the future with all women. Each month it circulates through the world, carrying vital messages, and as the Gospel expands so will this matchless instrument, our Relief Society Magazine. What is the foundation purpose of life? Development under spiritual guidance. Through this Magazine we receive this spirituality. My prayer is that we may have a Magazine in every home increasing spirituality which is so much needed today.