(To be continued) The room began to Golden Hours By Dorothy Clapp Robinson "A little Home among the trees, A warming sun, a cooling breeze, A childish voice, a welcome light, A man that whistles home at night. A cheery fire, a savory dish. What more could any mortal wish? A feeling that you'll never roam. These are the things that make a home." Thus sang Agnes Just Reid and such philosophy has been the dominant factor in shaping her life. WITH all our hearts we admire women who can set their goal early in life and with great singleness of purpose fight their way toward that goal. Usually home and family are made incident to their success. Those who have done this make up our list of great women. Then there are those of equal potentialities who pause in their upward struggle to perform life's humdrum obligations. The rise of the latter is not so assured nor their work so likely of reaching a degree of perfection. But what shall we say of the woman herself? Certainly her usefulness or the sum total of her efforts are not lessened by the widening of her interests. Preeminent among women of the latter class stands the Idaho poet, Agnes Just Reid. It was in the late sixties, a Danish freighter by the name of Nels Just, while traveling through Snake River Valley, lost his horses. He tracked them across a high dry bench into a fertile valley drained by the Blackfoot River. Here was grass and water in abundance and land to be had for the taking. In the spring of 1870 Nels Just came back to this paradise with his young English bride, Emma Bennett. They carried all their earthly possessions in a covered wagon drawn by four oxen. It took them eight days to go from Malad to fifteen miles northeast of the present town of Blackfoot. They trailed three cows. There Emma's first home was a "hole" in the side of the hill. She suffered all the annoyances and hardships of pioneer life but reaped its joys and blessings. There her ten children were born without benefit of medical profession. There Agnes, her tenth child and only living daughter, was born. However. By that time, the three original cows had multiplied into hundreds; Presto had a Post Office; Snake River Valley, a railroad; and the "hole" in the hill had been replaced by a comfortable ranch house. The little girl grew up in true 678 ranch style. With her brothers she rode horseback, drove cattle, learned to read the signs of the place and seasons. Different from many only girls, she was carefully trained in household tasks. She still prefers horseback to any other method of getting about and she and her horse are familiar figures on the byways and highways of that community. Agnes was born with the "divine afflatus." The dreamy, challenging romance of hills and lavas and untilled acres called insistently to the poet in her. She loved the ranch, the West, the Spirit of the Age. By the time she could wield a pencil she was writing poems and short stories. As she advanced in school her talent became more pronounced. By all signs, her future stretched before her, rosy with possibilities. There is every reason to suppose, had she gone on with unwavering intent, she could have marked her own heights. But rather than make writing her life, she made it just a part of, and subservient to, life. She says, "I have always wanted to be first a mother, and second a writer." THE old ranch has always been her home. When her years at school were finished, she came back joyously, eagerly to it. There she has waited all these years for Bob Reid's "whistle coming home at night." And the same ranch house where she was born has been the birthplace for her family of boys. Oh, the hours and hours and weeks and years of care and work those five boys have cost her. Imagine how far that many hours spent on writing would have taken her. She has preferred to work with more lasting material. But her writing was never forgotten. It nagged at the back of her mind demanding expression. Often the gravy, or the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE washing has had to stand by while she put some insistent thought on paper. She claims hard work brings her finest inspirations. Her first published book was a volume of verse called "The Range Cayuse." That was followed by "Letters of Long Ago." With its publication her place among Idaho authors was made secure. Primarily it is the story of her parents' life on their ranch but fundamentally it is a history of the conquest of Snake River Valley. It is simply and charmingly told. It is pioneer life as life was lived with no dressing up, but seen through eyes that could see "books in brooks, sermons in stones, and good in everything." It was written while her mother was alive so every date and fact was vouched for. Because it is true in fact and spirit, it will likely live as a very human history of eastern Idaho. WHILE contributing to many magazines and papers, Agnes is best known to Latter-day Saint women through her stories and poems published in the Era and Relief Society Magazines. The quantity of her production has fallen far short of her dreams, but the quality is a credit to any writer. Its charm is not so much in form nor technique as in good honest heart warming philosophy. Her poetry appeals to the women because it is so understandable. It sings itself into one's heart with the first reading. She does not believe in forcing herself to write, believing rather that there must be something to be written and a great urge to write it. The form, she thinks, is then likely to take care of itself. MRS. REID has another outstanding characteristic, the ability to make friends. She draws GOLDEN HOURS friends as a flower draws bees. For one who has always lived in one place, and that place a ranch, their variety is astonishing. From far and near they come, writers, poets, statesmen, business men and women and just plain people and neighbors. To all she is the same modest, unassuming, yet keenly alive personality. A woman who can listen as well as talk. Broadminded, yet with definite ideas and moral values of her own. Her secret of friendship could be put in one sentence, she sincerely recognizes the value of the other fellow and lets him know it. She is an ardent "dry" and never fails to throw her talent and influence into the fight when a moral issue is at stake. As a reader of her own poems, she is in great demand up and down the valley. Often she appears on a program along with such dignitaries as 679 the Governor of the State, Senator Borah and others. Hers is a well-rounded personality; a talented writer, equally at home with friends from any social group: a woman to whom "'the art of making butter took on a new dignity;" yet with the warm impulsive nature that makes for good wifehood and motherhood. She is essentially sincere when she writes: "And when at night they are safe in bed With their touseled heads in sight, I joyfully kneel by their sleeping forms And kiss them all goodnight. Then Daddy comes in to join me there And the kisses fall in showers. Oh, never was mortal so blest as I— These are my Golden Hours." —A. J. R.