Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon NOVEMBER—Some wait for a great gift to be grateful while it's life's daily kindnesses that bring gladness to the soul. EMMA NAYMAN, member of the Turkish parliament, says, "In no other country in the world has woman made such dramatic progress. She now enjoys complete equality with man." MLLE. INAIDE HANAPYI, Circassienne of Moslem faith, joined the Ethiopian women in mobilizing for defense in war. MARIE of Rumania at 60 years of age is still said to be the most beautiful and versatile queen in the world. RACE ABBOTT was chairman of the United States delegation to the Pan-American child congress which met in Mexico City last month. ELLEN WOODWARD is in charge of projects launched to aid women under the MRS. MARBA CANNON JOSEPHSON and Miss Aurelia Bennion, both young women, have been signally honored this year. The former appointed associate editor of the Improvement Era, the latter president of the Utah Library Association. EDITH M. NEILSEN, 22, of Utah, is said to be the youngest woman editor in the United States. She publishes and edits two weekly newspapers, the Garfield Leader and Magna Times. HELEN E. HAINES in her new book. "Living With Books," discusses the province of the public library and the problem of book selection that meets demands of taste and needs. ELLEN GLASSGOW, Virginia novelist, has captured the hearts of the literary critics with her new novel, "Vein of Iron." The book testifies of her "dignity of authorship" in its fine interpretation of human experiences. ANNE LINDBERGH'S "North To The Orient" is a true story of adventure more thrilling than any work of fiction. MARY MERWIN PHELPS in her biography of Kate Chase, daughter of secretary of the treasury during Lincoln's administration, gives a vivid picture of this period and a dramatic chronicle of the romantic life of this dominant woman. ANN BRIDGE in her latest novel, "Illysian Spring," has shifted for her setting from the Orient to picturesque Dalmatia. Aside from the charm and romance of the story, there is an enjoyable glimpse of the beauty of that interesting country. SALLY LEE BELL has written a romance of old Louisiana, '"Marcel Armand." The story has the charm for a film production though somewhat lacking in literary finish. REBECCA WERT'S "The Thinking Reed, '""The Lake Legacy" by Alice Hegan Rice, "Edna, His Wife,' by Margaret Eyer Barnes, "Lucy Gayheart," by Willa Cather and "Gypsy Weather," by Margaret Houston, are among the new books this fall. This page is devoted largely to new books this month as so many requests have come for suggestions on late books.