Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest of Life By Lella Marler Hoggan KEEP BUSY WORK is the salvation of the human race. Nothing is accomplished without exertion. The fact that Jehovah rested from his labors after the creation of the world, plainly implies that effort was required to complete that majestic undertaking. The highest achievements and the most satisfying joys come through work. To make, to create, to produce something necessary or beautiful, at once lifts man to companionship with the Gods. When man finds the work that his heart cries out for, and prepares to perform it with finish and artistry, then his effort becomes a high ceremonial. Since that long ago day when the Creator closed the gates of Paradise against our first parents, and bade them earn their bread by the sweat of their brow, men and women have bowed in service to provide the world with the common necessities of life. These necessities are earth-born, gifts from the Creator it is true, but gifts that must be wrested from life by the work of our hands. It is prudent that we should learn early in life to perform with skill 680 and efficiency, this primitive work of providing food, shelter and raiment for ourselves and others. These sweet homely tasks hold men and women to wholesome lives; and put iron in the blood and courage in the soul. "Every mason in the quarry, every builder on the shore, Every woodman in the forest, every boatman at the oar, Hewing wood and drawing water, splitting stones and clearing sod, All the dusty ranks of labor in the regiment of God, March together toward His temple, do the tasks His hands prepare: Honest toil is holy service, faithful work is praise and prayer." —Author Unknown. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE From the bee, the symbol of faithful work, they learned to use prudently both their time and their materials. By their diligent efforts they searched out the sweets of life and wrought them into their soul structure. No precious thing was wasted. All was conserved to the advancement of the commonwealth, to the service of God. ALTHOUGH work is a blessing, there are times when it fails to fulfill the purpose for which it was instituted. Labor that requires time and effort beyond one's strength to perform; that breaks the body, impairs the health, and prematurely ages one, is a detriment rather than FRAGRANT rose gardens did not greet our Pioneer ancestors at the close of their long trek. They had reached the land of promise, but the promise was yet to be fulfilled. They must first subdue the elements, and make peace with the Indians. Then they must work and wait with patience and with stamina until they had paid the price of the desired blessing; the price that nature always exacts before the barren waste can "flow with milk and honey." a blessing to the children of men. When there is no upward-looking joy, no romance in one's effort, no hope of promotion nor release from ceaseless toil; then work becomes slavery and is no longer a power for good. The attitude with which we approach a task helps to make it either drudgery or a sacrament under our hands. The laborer who turns the soil with gladness, who feels the comforting touch of the soft earth under his feet,-and catches KEEPSAKES FOR THE TREASURE CHEST OF LIFE 681 with pleasure the wholesome fresh odor from the new furrows, is getting more than bread from the soil. His life is a struggle with the elements, the conquest of which gives him keen delight. There is satisfaction in mastering the things we undertake to do. There is a joy in any performance that we can execute with ease and accuracy. To efficiently complete a task, to finish every least detail as perfectly as it is possible for us to do it, gives us confidence in our ability to meet life. Orison Swett Marden says: "Every half-done or slovenly job that goes out of your hands leaves its trace of demoralization behind. There is an indescribable superiority added to the character and fiber of the man who always and everywhere, puts quality into his work." "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread."—Gen. 3:19. "It is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God."— Matt. 4:4. Thus do the Scriptures signify that man requires spiritual as well as temporal sustenance. The work that is the easiest or the pleasantest to perform, is not always the most desirable. Work that we love, work that is an answer to the cry of our inmost being, is the labor that we can perform under the most trying conditions. The assurance that we are in the hands of destiny, that we are filling the measure of our creation, brings a deeper joy and satisfaction to our souls than any material wage could ever supply. To feel each day that we are developing strength and power; that we are living up to the fulness of our best possibilities; doing the biggest thing that we are capable of doing; this is high romance, this is life. Stuart Sherman, in Shaping Men and Women, tells us that a desire for truth and self-realization are two of the greatest incentives in life. "If you haven't any romance in your life," says he, "it's a failure. Romance is the deep cry which excites you to your best and utmost. Romance is whatever calls you out of your languor and indifference and half-heartedness—and uses you, consumes you, adequately—so that all the accumulated material of your life—your wisdom, your experience —takes fire, and gives off light, heat, warmth, and the beauty and red wings of flame." IN purchasing life, time is the medium of exchange. "You have to live on this twenty-four hours of daily time," says Arnold Bennett. "Out of it you have to spin health, pleasure, money, content, respect, and the evolution of your immortal soul. Its right use is a matter of the highest urgency. For we want to live, not merely exist or muddle through." In the unsettled economic condition of today, numberless men and women are left with much free time on their hands. They may choose whether they will loiter it away, bitterly deploring the mismanagement of the world, that leaves them without lucrative work; or, whether they will use it for improving themselves mentally and spiritually; that they may be better prepared to meet the changing conditions of life. There are spendthrifts of time, who never learn the value of an hour; who never realize that spare moments can be put to a wise use. Time is not lost if it has added health and strength to our bodies, or growth and development to our souls; if it has brought permanent beautiful things into our lives; or has ad682 vanced us a little nearer toward the goal we are seeking to reach. Just as pennies grow into dollars, so do minutes grow into hours. And both may be conserved to our benefit and happiness. "Every day! In those two words lies the secret of all attainment," said Dr. Crane. "Every day! That is the road to perfection. Almost everybody wastes enough hours in ten years to get a doctor's degree in any university. No force is so great in any man as the stored-up power of what he has been doing every day." SOME one has recently spoken of the vast army of college graduates as "the lost generation." After their earnest effort to prepare themselves for positions of trust and responsibility, there is no opening for them. Their services are not in demand. And yet, is not the man with a trained mind and a skilled hand better prepared to serve humanity than the one less richly endowed? Is not his soul attuned to higher appreciation and deeper joy than the one lacking these accomplishments? Must we measure every gracious attainment, every far-reaching development, by its remunerative returns? If we make our lives rich in worthwhile values, we need have no fear of poverty; for our soul's need shall be supplied from the source of all good. Albert Edward Wiggam, in Marks of an Educated Man, offered the sage advice, that we should fit a man for his job, because he must make a living; but we must also provide him with ideals, because he must make a life. It is not prudent that all of our leisure time should be spent in study. We need hours of recreation and play quite as much as we need work. To the child, play is more than mere entertainment. It is his chief RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE occupation. And he should be given time and opportunity to pursue it: for it greatly influences his mental as well as his physical growth. It is a most essential factor in the development of his inherent powers. "When a man plays," says Wiggam, "he is satisfying, not a mere foolish desire for pleasure, but is fulfilling the deepest organic needs of his being." If our daily work takes us into fields far from the occupation of our desire, we can make a hobby of our desire, and thus in our leisure hours find expression for our highest aspirations. Electricity, God's gracious gift to man, has cut our work in two and thus doubled our leisure time. It would be well for us to program this free time, in order that it may render us the greatest possible satisfaction. But hedged in by environment and circumstance, it is hard for us to budget our life's effort. Realizing that our time and energy are most precious commodities, we must not give them up too easily. They are the coin with which we purchase life. How can we teach ourselves to choose wisely? We must first make sure that we are not buying white elephants. And secondly. We must know that the price is right. The world is full of traders who are selling black magic. Do not permit your golden hours to go into the purse of the charlatan. There is an old saying that, "The priceless ingredient in any article, is the honor and integrity of him who produces it." Be sure that your purchase bears the reliable stamp of genuine worth. Intellectual growth and development are not transferable. Real and enduring values are not being passed out in surprise packages. All of us know the old fable of KEEPSAKES FOR THE TREASURE CHEST OF LIFE 683 the Dervish and the Camel. You remember how the camel begged to put his head into the tent of the dervish to protect his eyes from the shifting sand. No sooner had the dervish consented, than the camel felt the need of sheltering his shoulders and his back also. The dervish made no vigorous protest, and so the camel finally crowded his entire body into the tent. The tent was too small to shelter both of them; therefore, the dervish was left out in the sand-storm while the camel rested quietly inside. Many of us are using no more wisdom than the dervish. We permit the things that we do not especially want, to come into our lives and occupy our time, and crowd out our heart's best desires. We permit others to spend our time and shape our lives, sometimes, to the detriment of our families and our homes. Suppose we were given an extra hour of leisure time each day. What would we do with it? Spend it in discussing the latest neighborhood scandal with some chance caller? Should we not be truly thankful for our greater hours of free time, and use them in shaping our lives nearer to our liking? Too often we permit today's convenience to outweigh tomorrow's development. If we allow our lives to be filled with a multiplicity of small obligations, we shall have no time nor place for the larger objectives, the cherished projects that would bring us eternal joy. Some persons deplore any expenditure of time that does not yield a money value. Whenever they indulge in any cultural pursuit, they feel that they are stealing the time so used. What is life for, after all, if every precious, lovely thing has to be taken by stealth? Time will vindicate us if we cherish and cultivate our high ideals. If life begins at forty, as Walter B. Pitkin asserts, then it is not too late for us to seriously consider the pursuit of the visions that have shadowed us through the years. It is possible that we can gather together the odds and ends of the strands of life, and weave them into some beautiful, enduring thing. Let us not be afraid to set about materializing our long cherished dreams, even though it requires years to complete our undertaking. The accomplishment will bring us satisfaction that is beyond price. Truly, industry is a foundation principle in the construction of life. We certainly desire to include it with our treasured keepsakes. Relief Society Conference October 2 and 3, 1935 By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary The Semi-Annual Conference of the Relief Society was held on October 2 and 3, 1935, in Salt Lake City, Utah. The following is the attendance at the Officers' Meeting, held in the Assembly Hall, Thursday, October 3, at 10 a. M. Ninety-five stakes and fourteen missions were represented —Mission Presidents 14; Stake Presidents 73; Counselors 108; Secretaries 45; Board Members 384; Total 624. There was a full representation from the General Presidency and Board for the opening day. During the second day the presence of President Louise Y. Robison was greatly missed. This was occasioned by the serious illness of her husband. All the sessions on Wednesday, October 2, were devoted to the educational program of Relief Society. At the Opening Meeting, held in the Tabernacle, subjects dealing with the opportunities offered through the courses of study were discussed, and stress laid upon the spiritual values in life and teaching. In the afternoon Department Sessions were conducted with the chairmen of the various courses in charge. At all the meetings there was a large and enthusiastic attendance of women eager for help to develop the fine educational programs offered. The consultation service in the Music Department attracted many choristers and organists who received valuable instructions from Charlotte O. Sackett and Alta B. Cassity. Glenn J. Beeley was in attendance to discuss problems and suggest activities for the Work and Business supervisors. Thursday, October 3, the General and Stake Officers and Board Members met in the Assembly Hall. In the afternoon the General Public Session convened in the Tabernacle. The music furnished in the General and Department Meetings by the Relief Society Singing Mothers, under the direction of Charlotte O. Sackett, assisted by Alta B. Cassity, Emma Lucy Gates Bowen, Frank Asper, William Hardiman, Lydia White Boothby, Inez Robinson Preece, Blaine Keddington, Cyril Martin, Ida Hepworth, Dorothy Rosebraugh, Crissie Bixon, Eliza Bringhurst, Enid Orlob, made this a very delightful and inspirational feature of the Conference.