Opening Session—Tabernacle October 2—10 a. M. President Louise Y. Robison, Presiding Wednesday, October 2, 1935 TABERNACLE GREETINGS PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON I AM honored this morning in extending greetings to you from the General Board of Relief Society. Many of you have come great distances in the Christ-like desire to be of assistance to others. We hope RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE your desires and prayers for help in your work will be realized in the program we have arranged, for we, too, have prayed and planned. We are most fortunate in securing men and women who are outstanding in educational and spiritual fields to be our speakers. A great responsibility comes with the office of class leader. Attendance at Relief Society meetings depends largely upon the success of your teaching. Of more importance than attendance is the interest you arouse in your class members to create the desire to live richer lives. SPIRITUAL GROWTH THROUGH THE RELIEF SOCIETY COURSE 685 Greater faith is built through knowledge, but belief is incomplete unless merged into action, so yours is the opportunity to stimulate women to read, to think, and to apply in their lives the truths which they believe; to establish ideals which will hold them true, believing with Carl Schurz: "Ideals are like stars; you will not succeed in touching them with your hands, but like the sea-faring man on the desert of water, you choose them as your guides, and following them, you reach your destiny." OF STUDY M. LYNN BENNION Member of General Board, Deseret Sunday School Union MAZZINI, the Italian Philosopher, defined democracy as "The progress of all, through all, under the leadership of the wisest and best." I believe this definition is applicable to the Church. During 1934 there were 84,042 officers and teachers in the auxiliary organizations. There were 15,167 Relief Society officers, exclusive of Visiting Teachers. Practically every Latter-day Saint has an opportunity to lead in some capacity, and follow in many capacities. This mass participation in spiritual activity is the key to spiritual development. Truly it is the progress of all, through all, under the leadership of the wisest and best. I was greatly impressed when I read of the purpose in founding the Relief Society. A broader, more comprehensive foundation for spirituality can scarcely be imagined than the goal set for you by the founders of this great organization nearly a century ago. They are: "To manifest benevolence irrespective of creed or nationality; to care for the poor, the sick and unfortunate; to minister where death reigns; to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life; to raise human life to its highest level; to elevate and enlarge the scope of women's activities and conditions; to foster love for religion, education, culture and refinement; to develop faith; to save souls; to study and teach the Gospel." Spiritual Growth through the Study of Social Service: To develop spirituality through the promotion of human welfare is your primary aim. That aim is basic in our religion, and the Relief Society has led the way. The task of ministering to the needs of people demands a loving heart and a high order of intelligence. Even in these strenuous times people need spiritual food, intellectual stimulus, far worse than they need bread. The Relief Society has not been content to pass out charity, but has sought, through a Social Service course of study, to understand the complex problems inherent in health, education, sani686 tation, poverty, crime, child welfare and personality development. Christ gives us a picture of the ideal social welfare case worker. The Good Samaritan knew what needed to be done for the man in need, and he did it. I enjoy trying to read into Bible characters more than is apparent from the brief account given. The Good Samaritan was a student of human nature and also a lover of mankind. His heart and mind were prepared for this service. He had rendered already great services to many and through that experience was a finely developed personality. This is why he rendered such intelligent and loving service in the Bible story. Do not be discouraged over the slowness of your own development. Spiritual development is usually a slow, gradual progress. It is like the ear of corn which produced first the blade, then the ear, then the corn in the ear. Psychologists have discovered a great weakness in much of our educational practice. We learn all about the theory of something, but it does not influence our conduct, and because there is no activity or practice in what is studied there is no growth. One writer said: "Character as an intelligent, effective and dependable way of life, will result not from talking about character, but from actual experience in living the good life." It is far better to pray for and visit the sick than to merely define religion in terms of visiting the sick. The great question in my mind, as I have worked with young people in the Church, is: 'Will the facts they learn about Church history and doctrine influence their behavior and conduct." I more and more believe that we must see that they have actual experience in being honest, truthful, cooperative, and so forth. So RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE we are stressing pupil activity through problems and projects. Let the child learn to do by doing. It is the application of knowledge for the spiritual welfare of man that constitutes the "Mormon'"' ideal of education. Now I believe the Relief Society is ahead of us in this program. You have had much of the actual work of relieving the poor, caring for the sick, clothing the naked. You have met the actual problems, and it is in the solution of problem that the highest spiritual growth lies. It calls for the best that is in you and it makes you thoughtful of the ills of mankind. Furthermore nothing is more provoking of hard mental effort than concrete problems to solve. I used to wonder how it was that missionaries developed so rapidly. You know the answer. They have problems to solve. It may be to make clear a principle of the Gospel to a person, or to soften another man's heart. These problems drive the missionary to study and to his prayers. He fills up his mind and heart and then he gives, and O, how he does grow! One of the most stirring incidents in Scripture is Moses pleading with God to spare backsliding Israel, offering to efface himself if only they may be spared. When he came back from his communion he so radiated the spiritual life that he had to cover his face for the Israelites could not abide his presence. I see in the Social Service work of the Relief Society the very essence of "pure religion." Those who give most will grow most and live most abundantly. Spiritual Growth through the Study of Literature: "All that mankind has done, thought, gained or been; it is lying as in magic preserRELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE vation in the pages of Books.""— Carlyle. "Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom, seek learning even by study, and also by faith." Brigham Young grasped the significance of that commandment. "I want to have schools," he said, "to entertain the minds of the people and draw them out to learn the arts and sciences." "We should be," President Young said, "a people of profound learning pertaining to the things of the world. Every accomplishment, every political grace, every useful attainment in mathematics, music, and in all science and literature belong to the Saints, and they should avail themselves as expeditiously as possible of the wealth of knowledge the sciences offer to every diligent and persevering scholar." He defined education succinctly when he said before the University of Deseret Board of Regents: "Education is the power to think clearly, the power to act well in the world's work, and the power to appreciate life." The best way I know to appreciate life is to contact life in the flesh, or from the pages of literature. During the last few years my reading hours as a student have been crowded into the books of the past. I often found myself hungry for the books of life, and I went to them to find courage, strength and faith to renew my labors. There is nothing more stimulating in all this world than contact with a truly great personality. You just cannot help being lifted by such people. Blessed are those who receive many such contacts in person or from the pages of literature, for they shall grow spiritually thereby. Longfellow was asked by a student at Harvard University, "How is it, Mr. Longfellow, that after all these years of teaching you remain 687 so fresh in your point of view, and so stimulating?" The wise old teacher pointed to a peach orchard through the window, and said, "You see some of those trees are young, and some are old. The old ones grow enough new wood each year to produce beautiful fragrant blossoms. I try to read and study enough to keep alive mentally." Another great teacher, said, "I want my students to drink from a running stream and not a stagnant pool." We are all teachers in this Church of ours. One of the surest guarantees that your husband, your children, your friends will grow spiritually is that you yourself are expanding in the good life. Think of the power Christ had to stimulate people. "One half of my goods I give to the poor," said Zaccheus, the mercenary little tax collector, in response to the appeal of the Master, "and if I have taken anything from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold.' What a glorious spiritual response to a superb teacher and a great Personality. Richard C. Cabot, scholar, teacher of ethics at Harvard University, and fine Christian, said: "I caught my religion by contagion through contact with people." This man has contacted the great and noble of all ages through the pages of literature. He mentioned also his indebtedness to two living people—Dr. Grenfell, physician, who left the comforts of a London home to serve the Eskimos on the bleak coasts of Labrador. "When I was with Grenfell," said Dr. Cabot, "Jesus Christ seemed not more than five feet away." The other person who touched and melted Cabot was Jane Addams, that good woman of great sympathy and understanding, who sought to serve others. I saw this noble woman receive the honorary degree of Dr. of 688. Laws at the University of California last spring. Her face was radiant with spirituality. Spiritual experience had brought her a rich development. Love has been defined as "The energy of a steadfast good will bent on creating fellowship." Jane Addams was filled with this energy. It led her day and night through the slums of Chicago seeking to make fellowship with humanity. No one can estimate the stimulus of spiritual growth that will come to you through your literary course of study. Its influence will be felt in your home and in your communities. A teacher of literature recently asked a visiting mother at school, "In what college did you study literature?" The mother replied, "I received my training through the Relief Society." We can agree with Charles Kingsley, who said: "Except a living man, there is nothing more wonderful than a book, a message from human souls whom we never saw, who lived perhaps thousands of miles away— they speak to us, amuse us, inspire us, teach us, open their hearts to us as a brother. Before leaving the subject of literature, I wish to recommend a book that every mother will love to read— Ella Lyman Cabot's The Seven Ages of Childhood. This book will give you greater insight, understanding and patience with children. Spiritual Growth through the Study of Theology: The most important channel for spiritual growth offered Relief Society members is through the study of theology. Perhaps the most valuable lesson gained from this study is the knowledge that we are the children of God, made in His image, having His attributes in embryo and destined to become like Him. This definition of man is a great contrast to one I reRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE cently heard: "Man is a small but boisterous bit of organic scum which for the time being coats one of the lesser planets." Man needs to understand the nature of his origin, for it will help him to bring unity and oneness to the inner life. It will help him resolve the struggle expressed in the verse: "Within my earthly temple There's one that's humble, one that's proud; There's one who's broken-hearted for his sins; There's one who unrepentant sits and grins; There's one who loves his neighbor as himself; There's one who cares for naught but fame and self. From such perplexing cares I would be free If I could once determine which is me." Gospel study will help you to live in harmony with the will of God. What has brought traditional religion into disrepute with many people? It is because some have allowed religion, or spirituality, to become a department of life instead of the core and heart of life. They have locked it up in a water-tight compartment so that it does not influence the whole of life. The same disuse has affected our educational system... Glenn Frank, President of Wisconsin University, says that our Western education with its many separate subjects has educated men in narrow grooves without the power to see the relationship between things. We have made specialists but we have failed to build men. Now we need the unique contribution of the specialist, but we are more in need of the man of all round development, who sees the divine purpose in things, and whose talents are dedicated to the spiritual welfare of God and man. The fine old cobbler emulated the spiritual life. The RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE sign over his door read: 'God first, man second, shoes third." Character may be defined as "The ability and disposition of the mind and the body to control conduct in accordance with a system of values." The Latter-day Saint system of values is the highest and most comprehensive system in existence. How did we obtain gospel values? We did not get them by experimentation, which is the way of science. We did not receive them through reasoning, which is the way of philosophy. We did receive them from God, through divine revelation. How are we going to attain the ability and disposition to control our conduct in accordance with these divine values' First we must understand these values. That means constant study and prayer. No man can be saved in ignorance, for knowledge is the concomitant of salvation and ignorance is a sin where there is an opportunity to be informed. Not only must we study the gospel, but we must live it. Christ challenges us to make the pragmatic test. "If any man will do my will he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself.'' Study the gospel and honestly live the gospel and you will have the ability and disposition to control your conduct in accordance with gospel values, and that is "Mormon" character! The highest in existence —what a challenge for us to grow in character! Furthermore those who live the gospel know that it is true. I have made this discovery: most people who are dissatisfied with God's plan of life, and who seek some new experiment, do not understand God's laws and. Have never fairly tried them out. Why should you study theology? Because religion is the core and heart 689 of life. It is the glowing center of all values whatsoever. It is a positive, creative, dynamic and integrating power that makes all our relationships in the family, in our vocations, in our intellectual pursuits, in enjoyment and in moral conduct, beautiful and God-like. To be a fine Latter-day Saint is a great achievement, the achievement of a life-time, for it means a life of devoted study and growth-promoting service. "Man is that he might have joy." Obedience to divine laws brings divine joy. Recall with me now the most joyful experiences of your life. They are spiritual in their nature. There is no expression of the mind, or the body that man cannot have in its highest, most thrilling and most lofty form through the gospel. What a pity so many miss these blessings through choosing a base expression of their lives. How grateful we are for the spiritual experiences of life. They are as real, and the evidence of them as substantial as any scientific experiment performed in a laboratory. I firmly believe that one who feels the joy of spiritual growth will no more be satisfied with baser things than a boy would be satisfied with a sour apple if he had a ripe one in his hand. The Relief Society members have a splendid Adult Education course of study. It comprises a study which seeks broadly to discover truth and beauty. Most important they have remarkable opportunities to apply the knowledge gained in the interests of human welfare. That is the sure avenue of spiritual growth. Our women in the Church do have spiritual experience in great abundance. That is why they are so fine, so sensitive to the promptings of the Holy Spirit. May God ever bless them, Amen.  ESTABLISHING CONDUCT CONTROLS IN TEACHING BELLE S. SPAFFORD Member of the General Board "THE Relief Society, though basically charitable, is also Educational in the best and highest sense of the word, dealing with subjects that tend toward the elevation and advancement of women." The goal of all Latter-day Saint women is to live efficient, effective and satisfying lives. There are two elements which run through all departments of "satisfying living," the first is rich, abundant living and the second is living which enables us to constantly move forward, to progress. The Relief Society Membership consists of the Mothers of our Church—a group upon whom rests heavy responsibility—that of maintaining the integrity of the home, of rearing and disciplining the children for effective and happy participation in adult life and of exerting influence in securing wholesome community life. In addition they are striving for personal growth and development, that their own intellectual, aesthetic and social horizons may be constantly broadened. In obedience to commandment and recognizing the responsibilities and desires of our mothers, a balanced program has been provided; one designed to stimulate study and provide opportunity for attainment of these objectives. Upon the Class leader rests the responsibility of teaching the subject matter in such a way that the ultimate aims of the educational program will be achieved. It is not her problem to say what shall be admitted to the educational course but, "What shall I lead my class members to get out of the lesson material which has been provided." We must see our lessons as more than subject matter, we must see them as a "Way of Life," as a definite guide to conduct. Conduct is largely determined by such factors in one's makeup as the knowledge he may possess, the habits formed, the skills which are his, the attitudes, ideals, tastes and interest he may have acquired. These things we speak of as "Conduct Controls," since they control or determine behavior. The teacher's chief concern should not be subject matter, but the outcome of presenting this subject matter. She should ask with reference to each lesson presented, "What information, skills, habits, tastes, attitudes, interests, etc., must I establish in presenting this lesson, that the class members will conduct themselves in an improved and more acceptable manner. Subject matter is valuable but only in so far as it leads to the establishing of intelligent conduct controls. The greatest concern of teachers of the past has been subject matter, implying that knowing a thing, one would conduct himself in accordance with this knowledge. Now educators are realizing, this is not always true and that subject matter is valuable only in so far as it leads to improved conduct. The first step in well planned teaching is the setting up of lesson objectives in terms of conduct controls. Then we must consider just what contribution this attitude, ideal, etc., will make toward the ultimate objective of our educational program. We must consider always whether or not these controls when established, will really help our RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE mothers in the many activities in which they must engage in order to live completely. Our instruction should not be the SPIRITUAL GROWTH 691 mere imparting of facts nor the indoctrinating of dogma but the establishing of intelligent conduct controls. THROUGH Music JANET M. THOMPSON Member of the General Board WHAT is music? What is the purpose of it? Do we experience spiritual growth through it? The dictionary defines Music as "the science and the art of tones or musical sounds, the art of combining tones in a manner to please the ear —melody or harmony. Charles Kingsley said, "Music is a sacred, a divine God-like thing and was given to man by Christ to lift our hearts up to God and make us feel something of the glory and beauty of God and of all which He has made." Another writer tells us "Music is well said to be like the speech of the Angels—God is its author—He laid the keystone of all harmonies— He planned all perfect combinations and He made us so that we could hear and understand." When we hear good music and understand it, it becomes a part of us—it gives significance to life—interprets life and unfolds it. In the unfolding of its great purpose we experience spiritual growth. Music speaks a universal language which the heart alone interprets. "It merges all humanity into God's children regardless of race, creed, color or culture. It makes us forget the differences that separate the human family and welds all into one great symphony of life." It is one of the arts that interprets the mission of our Redeemer—it illuminates life and thought — has power to uplift—capacity to soothe and comfort. It educates the soul, mind and body—gives spiritual strength—a feeling of harmony within and without which at once becomes religious—it gives hope, peace and joy. So we say Music does influence one in a spiritual way. Everywhere and always music— both vocal and instrumental—has been considered an indispensable part of public worship. From early Bible days down to the present time it has been employed as a means of worship. It has been said our songs in the form of hymns are among the most powerful agencies we have for developing the religious sentiment of our people. Strange as it may seem there has never been any great religious movement without the use of the sacred song. When the children of Israel sang, because of their deliverance from the hand of Pharaoh, Miriam, the sister of Moses said, "Sing unto the Lord, for He hath triumphed gloriously." In the life of Martin Luther we find another example of spiritual uplift through song. During the most dangerous period in his life he wrote "A Mighty Fortress is our God— A Bulwark Never Failing." This song was inspired by the 46th Psalm, which states in part—''God is our refuge and strength—a present help in trouble." Luther found great comfort in this hymn. When danger seemed imminent he would turn to his companions and say, "Come, let us sing the 46th Psalm." He believed music to be a profound help to the religious life. His enemies said he 692 made more converts by his hymns than by all his preaching. Some of our finest oratorios are based on Biblical text—the Messiah being one of them. It voices the deep religious feeling and faith of its composer, George Frederick Handel—and has proven a musical blessing to all mankind. Surely the rendition of this sacred composition gives one spiritual uplift and strength—greater vision, faith and hope. With the establishment of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints upon this continent, the sacred song had its place in that most eventful religious movement. As Mormonism was founded on revelation it became necessary to make a collection of hymns which would conform to the new revelations and the restored gospel, as taught by the Prophet Joseph Smith. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The Doctrine and Covenants gives us this revelation, in part—"And it shall be given thee also, to make a selection of sacred hymns, as it shall be given thee, which is pleasant unto me to be had in my church. For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart, yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." When we know the extraordinary religious influence that swayed the lives of our composers and writers we are assured there has been spiritual growth through music—there will be greater spiritual growth if we aim to make our songs a prayer unto the Lord—if we will understand and sing the gospel in our hymns. The Lord has given the gift of music to the world. May we employ every available means to develop a growing love for it and make that love ever more intelligent and discriminating. THE BIBLE JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary-Treasurer THE Roman soldier said to the Apostle Paul, "with a great price purchased I this freedom." So we might say, "with a great price was the Holy Bible purchased for us." The untiring zeal of the great scholars who devoted their lives to preserve the treasured manuscripts, and the blood of the martyrs who gave the sacred writing to the people in their own language!—Huss and Jerome,—burned on the public square of Prague, Wycliffe, a fugitive his whole life through; Luther and Calvin, battling through a long life against the mighty power of Rome; and William Tyndale strangled at the stake—these are but a few of the illustrious names who accomplished the greatest feat of the Reformation—giving the Bible to the people. This mighty book has been the great civilizing, judgment forming agent through the ages, the foundation for religious belief of all really progressive nations. To tell of what we owe to the Bible in Art, Literature, Law, Music, would be an endless task, but the debt should be acknowledged with reverent gratitude. The Anglo Saxon races have been the defenders of human freedom, and have evolved the highest efficiency RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE in the science and practice of government. The majestic structure of the English law, under which all English speaking peoples have built their civil governments, has been developed along lines rooted in Hebrew, rather than Pagan sources. Sister Thompson has told of the inspiration the Bible has been to music, and we have but to note the glory of the Cathedrals, the matchless beauty of paintings and sculpture, to realize something of what art owes to the Bible. The greatest classic in the English language is the Bible. Every form of literature—history, drama, oration, genealogical and other catalogues—wisdom treaties, poetry of various types, and rhapsodies that defy strict literary classification or comparison, are to be found. The freshness of primitive life is depicted as well as in Homer, without Homer's absurdities. The beautiful idyllic simplicity of Ruth is vastly superior to the artificiality of Theocritus. The orations of Deuteronomy are nobler as models of library culture than the production of Cicero. Compared with the Psalms, the lyrics of Pindar seem provincial. A great critic says: "If the philosophy of Plato and his successors has a special interest as a starting point for a progression of thought, that is still going on as modern science, the field of Biblical wisdom offers an attraction just as great but of a different kind." The spiritual mystery and beauty of the Bible writings are not approached by any other types or by Pagan writers. Insofar as the mythology, aspirations of philosophy of other nations has any single thing of beauty, or good to offer, this same quality is more than matched in the Bible. There are many interesting parallels that are evident distortions 693 of Bible narratives. These are shown through the traditions of Assyrian, Persian, Greek, Norse, but the Bible stories are more reasonable and convincing. There is overwhelming evidence that the Gospel was preached in ancient times, and the neglect of the Hebrew culture in our University courses is deplorable. The Bible gives the most complete and perfect record of humanity, fully depicting a typically human race at various stages of its development. All the virtues and vices of the human family are set forth, together with the inevitable consequences thereof. Individuals, families, tribes and nations are all dealt with in the same incredibly accurate manner, and on a scale incomparable in Pagan histories. Its honesty and sincerity give to it the strength of truth and immortality. Like all great treasures the Bible should be treated with reverent and careful discrimination if we would have our children understand and love it. There is a message for every soul, and for every occasion. In great crises of life people turn for guidance and consolation to the Bible rather than to any other ancient or modern thought. We should seek to understand its picturesque language, for like all oriental literature, it makes abundant use of imagery, and we often mistake the use of the symbolism and misinterpret the words. Ancient people used the word fear with the meaning we now give to reverence. It is possible to make the Jehovah of the Old Testament a Being to be feared, while the actual narrative proves Him to have walked and talked with the prophets of old, and to have possessed endless patience, tolerance and love for His erring children. We must be selective in the material 694 we give to our children, and always show that it is broken law and human selfishness that brings misery to the world, for God is always love. There is a perfect unity through different kinds of writing—narrative, lyric, drama, rhapsody—the grand central theme remains the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE same. The plan of the one true God in relation to humanity. President Wilson said in his address to the soldier boys: "Read the Bible, for there you will find the bread of life." In contributions by writers over a period of at least eighteen centuries, all testify of one great plan— one God, 'one Christ. THEoLtocy DEPARTMENT AUDITORIUM BISHOP'S BUILDING Lotta Paul Baxter, Chairman, General Board Relief Society THEN ANNIE WELLS CANNON Member of the General Board Hew true it is that history repeats itself. There are years of peace and progress down the centuries, and again years of war and disasters. With all the changes the fact remains that an over-ruling power controls the world, and in due time right conquers might. Nine hundred and sixty-nine years before the flood the Lord made known unto Enoch that great tribulations would be among the children of men, “But," He said, "my people will I preserve and truth will I send forth out of the earth to bear testimony of mine Only Begotten, and | truth will sweep the earth to gather out mine elect from the four quarters of the earth." The ancient people who inhabited this western hemisphere had the highest civilization until wars and wickedness swept away the glory of the ages, and only a savage remnant remained. When nations war progress ceases. Prior to, and at the beginning of the nineteenth century, there was destruction in the earth. Napoleon the First was waging war throughout Europe, until he met defeat at Waterloo in 1815, and everywhere there was unrest. The Latter-day Saints believe that certain spirits are born in the world to fulfil certain purposes. To sense this fact one must realize the immortal—the life eternal. The Lord showed Abraham the intelligences that were organized before the world was, and said to Abraham, “Among these were many of the noble and great ones." Early in the nineteenth century there was born into the world a host of great "intelligences" — philosophers, poets, artists and prophets, not the least among these "great ones" Joseph Smith, the "Mormon'"' prophet. How ripe the time for a message from on High—the day foretold by Enoch that "the truth should come out of the earth to bear testimony of mine Only Begotten." "The trees were God 's first temples," and even as the star shone o'er Judea's hills to usher in the birth of the Redeemer, so in the sylvan depths of the forest near Palmyra, a glorious light shone round a lad in prayer, to usher in the restoration of the gospel Jesus taught. The boy was Joseph Smith, and in this glorious light appeared the  Father and the Son. They told him and to join no church. In the region where the Smith family dwelt—Western New York —countless stone implements and arrowheads were found in the hills. According to the Hook of Mormon it was this region where the final battles were fought between the Nephites and the Lamanites, and on Cumorah, the highest hill, the Nephites made their last stand prior to their extermination. It would seem the Smith family were divinely led to migrate to this place, nor does it seem strange that a humble youth, without guile, of prayerful heart, should be the chosen instrument of the Lord to fulfil his purposes. When the boy told of his wondrous vision, and declared that God was like other men, glorified, he was called an imposter and a blasphemer, threatened and ridiculed. Three years past and then, after a persistent prayer, Joseph was again visited by a messenger from heaven. He said his name was Moroni. He told Joseph of the record on plates of gold concealed in the hill Cumorah, and gave instructions concerning many matters. Four years later Joseph was permitted to take away the plates for translation. He was then twenty-two years old. The work was completed in less than two years, and in 1830 the first copy of the Book of Mormon was issued and the great missionary work of the Church begun. Other "great ones" born near the same time as the prophet, heard the "word" and became his friends, coworkers and leaders in spreading the glorious message and building up the Church. Bitterness, hatred and persecution followed the Saints, resulting in drivings from State to State into the wilderness ; even to the martyrdom of their prophet and patriarch. But Zion was established in the mountains. The words of the prophets were fulfilled. Truth did come out of the earth to bear witness of the "Only Begotten” and the elect were gathered from the four quarters of the earth. The Golden Book—the Book of Mormon—was brought out of the earth and "Worlds without end will testify The wondrous things of prophecy." SECOND COUNSELOR. KATE M BARKER THE words of the prophets were fulfilled, as ever are the promises of our Heavenly Father. Truth and righteousness did come out of the earth to bless mankind. The prophet did see and talk to the Father and the Son, and had the strength to stand by his testimony, even to the giving of his life. But with their leader dead, where were those who were left, and who had not seen the plates or the vision to get the strength to carry on through hardship and persecution? Even before the Church was organized the Lord gave to the world one of the most glorious promises ever given to mankind when He declared through the prophet : "Whosoever believeth on my words, them will I visit with the manifestation of my Spirit." For the first time since the Savior and His Apostles were on the earth, this promise was given. How wonderfully it was fulfilled ! Through the manifestation of His Spirit, faith had been implanted in 696 the hearts of those early members of the Church too deep to be ever eradicated. From all parts of the world it brought people and made of them one people united, faithful Individual testimony was the strength of the Church in the beginning—it is the strength of the Church today. It brought the pioneers across the plains, it gave strength to those who were called to pioneer the second time. Because of their testimony these pioneers, their children and their children's children in turn have worked and sacrificed to send their sons and daughters on missions, taking to the world the same promise they had received. Today the Church has 750,000 members. Truth and light are gradually permeating the thought of the world. But so many of the old orthodox beliefs are gone that the churches seem to have lost their foundations. Their leaders are uncertain. They are lacking in positive beliefs. Meanwhile the people of the world have been passing through trying times. Man now begins to feel the need of something outside himself to help him meet the tests of life. Millions of people are troubled. That there must have been a creative power somewhere, sometime, to account for the universe they nearly. All agree. But has this power a plan for the world, and for human life? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Can it understand and respond to human needs, prayers, sorrows? One teacher of religion recently said, "The universe, life itself, tells me there must be a God—but personal? I wish I could believe it!" No uncertain answer will satisfy the world today. It must be as positive as Job's "I know that my Redeemer lives." How does the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints answer these questions? Again the scene is at the Hill Cumorah and the Sacred Grove—at the dedication of the monument. President Grant and President McKay and many of the General Authorities were there. They bore their testimonies to the people of the world as strong, certain, unwavering as those borne by our first leaders over one hundred years ago, that through the manifestation of the Spirit they know that God lives, that He is our Father, that Jesus is the Christ, that through the Prophet Joseph Smith the Gospel has been restored in all its beauty—and that the promise of the Lord still holds if they "ask God the Eternal Father in the name of Jesus Christ if these things are true, and if ye ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, He will manifest the truth of it unto you by the power of the Holy Ghost." LITERARY DEPARTMENT Marcia K. Howells, Presiding BARRATT HALL Wednesday, October 2—2 p. M. N her preview of "Adventures in Reading,” Maud Beeley Jacob gave as the objective of the course, to give all women an opportunity to enjoy literature through their own niche, which each one must find for herself. Literature is a vehicle of spirituality, and the place of the literary lessons in the spiritual life of Relief RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Society women will be determined by the quality of literature, the satisfaction obtained through reading, and the presentation of the teacher. Aristotle gave as a measuring device for literature, that it imitates life, interprets life, and provides a criticism of life. Man's life is the sum total of expression of his thoughts; civilization is measured by his desire to know, to possess and to create. Ruskin says that books are houses in which souls are to live, they preserve fancies, satisfy memories, noble histories, faithful sayings 697 and precious thoughts. The role of the teacher is to transfer the ideal of form, beauty, imagination and appreciation into life, to refresh courage, faith and love. To the teacher, today is a day of days, today is a day of man's greatest needs. Millions are asking, seeking. What will you give — joyous thoughts, wisdom and an understanding of life. Mary C. Kimball conducted a class denionstration on "The Glory of the Commonplace." Sociau SERVICE DEPARTMENT Emma A. Empey, Chairman DESERET GYMNASIUM Wednesday, October 2—2 p.m. PREVIEW of Social SERVICE Lessons 1935-6 MATTHEW F. NOALL OOD citizenship and intelligent participation in community life require on the part of each individual knowledge of many phases of life in the modern world. Knowledge of our social surroundings is essential to those who would take a constructive part in the course of events. But the rapidity with which social, economic, and political life is changing necessitates continued study for more complete and accurate information about present sociological conditions. It is necessary, therefore, for adults constantly to keep informed about the changing aspects of group life in order to do their part in making every day life more worth while. Perhaps no line of thought could offer more direct help than a general course in sociology illustrated with examples from currrent social problems. The gospel of Jesus Christ teaches the principle of continuous study that we may "be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God that are expedient for you to understand." (Doctrine and Covenants 88:78) It is expedient that we understand the principles upon which human beings are socialized and those which may be used for the improvement of life among mankind. The lessons based upon contemporary problems and general principles of sociology have been written for this purpose. The object of the course is to help Relief Society members to improve their understanding of human relationships that they may help to develop better human relations, and secure greater joy in life by giving improved service to humanity. We may advance toward these ideals by taking the following three steps: first, by recognizing the problems of 698 the day. Facts of daily existence are apt to dull our consciences and understandings. Often-times systematic study is essential to enable us to be aware of a specific problem of life; and often, further study is necessary to understand the problem after we have become aware of it. Second, the making of plans to solve these problems should always follow the study. Mere knowledge has no particular virtue in improving life. Third, by using all those forces and powers which we may command to solve these problems. Upon the extent to which this third principle is carried to a successful conclusion depends the value of the lessons we are to undertake. "By their fruits ye shall know them" is the criterion of judgment given by the Master. The lessons in Civic Sociology are organized in such a manner that class leaders can help each individual take the three essential steps. Insofar as possible the class room should be a laboratory, an open forum, and a place of selfexpression. Growth in understanding and tolerance of the opinions of others are products of constant practice in thinking, reasoning, and generalizing on problems of contemporary life. We learn only as we assimilate new meanings and new facts and principles into our own experience. Ability to understand and to think. Critically about modern social problems will grow only through practical experience along such lines. Class leaders are urged to see that these opportunities are extended to each individual in the class. There are five distinct parts to each lesson. They are as follows: 1. A statement of the specific purposes to be accomplished by the lesson. This is quite different from the title of the lesson which indicates RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the nature of the subject matter. Yo develop the necessary reaction from any lesson it is imperative to get clearly in mind the objective for which the subject matter is considered. The subject matter may cover a very wide range of factual information which may have little, or no value unless that information is directed toward some desirable goal. These goals are indicative of a personal reaction to be gained by each individual in the class. 2. Suggestions for the achievement of the specific purposes. At times the suggestions may be specific and pointed; or, the purposes may be determined through a selection of factual information which can be readily shown to have direct bearing upon the specific purposes. 3. Much factual material not found in the class text will be found in the lessons published in the magazine. This is both to supplement the text and to give more pointed application to the specific purposes selected. The correlation between the principles discussed in the lesson and the teachings and lives of the Latterday Saints is also given. The basic principles of sociology are illustrated through the study of the current social problems. 4. Suggested activities are given to be conducted under the direction of a class leader contributing to the realization of the specific objectives set forth. Upon the successful carrying out of this principle depends largely the value of the study. The activities in connection with the lessons are directions to do something which will carry over into actual life the specific purposes sought. These activities should deal as concretely as possible with the immediate environment of the local community and region in which the people live. Since each stake and each ward has RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE an environment of its own and problems peculiar to the locality, the activities should be so multiplied and so directed that a personal application can be developed therefrom. Here is a real challenge to stake leaders and individual class teachers. It is probable that the activities suggested in the magazine cannot be carried out in your particular -ward. Each leader should supplement this phase of the work as far as is necessary to make it vital to each class niember. 5. Additional reference material will be given when it is deemed advisable. However, with a text to follow and magazine lessons to supplement the text and guide our thinking, additional readings will seldom be necessary. The individual ward is a laboratory holding endless opportunities for continued effort. Special attention should be directed to the general purposes of the 699 entire course. These will be found in the Introduction, published in the May issue of the magazine. The general purposes should be studied carefully as to full meaning and import. Each lesson in the entire series should contribute to the realization of the general aims. It should always be born in mind that the truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ are never called into question by a study of any world situation or problem of humanity. On the contrary, they should bring light to our minds that we may exercise better judgment in interpreting life situations. Growth in understanding, tolerance in our judgments of others and situations, more correct thinking, and more meaningful spirituality should emerge from a study of contemporary life. These should develop within each one of us a more vital testimony of the truth. POSSIBILITIES IN THE SOCIAL SERVICE LESSONS DONNA S. SORENSON Member of the General Board HE poet Thom has said of teacher's work: "Delightful task! To rear the tender thought, To teach the young idea how to shoot, To breathe the enlivening spirit, and to mix The generous purpose in the glowing breast."' In a consideration of Relief Society teaching three factors must be considered: varied conditions prevail in different stakes, opportunities for enrichment of these lessons are unequal, and we are teachers in an Organization that grew out of our religion. It would seem that in this course in civic sociology one of our major possibilities and opportunities would be "'to breathe the enlivening spirit." The ways to achieve this might be profitably considered for if we can foster this in our teaching and develop it to such an extent that these lessons will live we may do much to measurably affect the lives of those whom we teach. We have then, a real opportunity to make these lessons live by being builders of faith. If we have the vision to see above and beyond our changing social heritage the hand of God working for increased intelligence and enlightenment of all His children, we can do much in these lessons to increase faith, to build 700 understanding, to further tolerance. To be a teacher in this "dispensation of times' when so much has been revealed, when social trends are coming into being and they in turn being supplanted by new social phenomena is to have great responsibility but with it great possibilities. We cannot build an enlivening spirit into these lessons unless we are enthusiastic and that enthusiasm must carry over to those we teach. Do you see yourselves as members and teachers of a great Relief Society organization of 70,000 members engaged in voluntary service for the good of their fellow men and women? Do you look even beyond that and see yourselves as a part of a recent social movement of adult education, members of a group of 500,000 engaged in training and directing on a voluntary or professional basis 20,000,000 adults annually? Do you recognize that the social environment into which we must fit ourselves is not static but is rapidly changing and that some of those whom you can reach think in old ways and live in a new world? If you recognize these things you cannot help but be enthusiastic about this course in civic sociology and the challenge which comes to you as Relief Society teachers. Use the element of contrast in age groups in the women you _ teach. People are most ready to act upon those convictions which they have helped to formulate in their minds and those based upon their own experience and observation. In our classes we have the older woman with her rich experience and knowledge of "times" as they used to be. We have the younger woman with her knowledge of modern day trends and her ability to contribute to the class because of her increased opportunity. To have these older RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE women, along with the younger, contribute facts from their experience will give them a sense of adequacy in their contribution. You can not make these lessons live unless as teachers you are be. Lievers in and doers of exploratory work along sociological lines. That means that you must cultivate an alertness of mind in detecting that which will be useful in your work; that means that you must read fully and widely all material available to you; that means that inasmuch as there is such a wealth of material available to you in the cheaper print of magazine and newspaper that you read these, intelligently and critically. People generally are more interested in human association of the present time and the phenomena arising from such association, therefore it would be a profitable thing to give your lessons a current setting. Let me illustrate: Pres. Roosevelt passed through our city last Sunday on a cross country trip. This incident might be utilized very well in the lesson on "Socialization through Communication and Transportation." In these social service lessons there is a real opportunity "'to mix the generous purpose in the glowing breast." Relief Society and its educational program has been concerned with the development of rich and many-sided personalities capable of living well together in a society. This course in civic sociology offers us the possibility of helping women to see themselves as not only contributors to our present social heritage but participators in that heritage. If you can accomplish the active participation of our women in their rights of franchise surely the course will not be without its merits. If you can do more than that and arouse curiosity about and develop an appetite RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE along sociological lines then you will have realized some of the possibilities of this course. There is a great opportunity for you to open up to those Relief Society women whose children are no longer dependent on her to a great extent, a field of usefulness after her busy motherhood. There is an increasing importance of a recognition by the individual of his responsibility of the national welfare. Accept this challenge and do your share as teachers in developing this responsibility in your women which will result in right action. We have been considering the possibilities in the social service lessons and in order to achieve the same entails much work on your part to efficiently prepare but you will never realize your fullest possibilities in these lessons without the help of the Lord and His Holy Spirit whfch will "bring things to your remembrance and show you things to come." Seek His divine aid in humble prayer and you will be able to say: 701 "Lord, what a change within us one short hour Spent in Thy presence will prevail to make! What heavy burdens from our bosoms take, What parched ground refresh, as with a shower. We kneel, when all around us seems to lower... We rise, and all, the distant and the near, Stands forth in sunny outline, brave and clear; We kneel, how weak! We rise, how full of power! Why, therefore, should we do ourselves this wrong, Or others, that we are not always strong— That we are ever overborne with care— That we should ever weak or heartless be, Anxious or troubled—when with us is prayer; And joy, and strength, and courage are with Thee." IMPORTANCE OF MENTAL ACTIVITY FOR ADULT WOMEN COUNSELOR AMY BROWN LYMAN THE course of study in the Relief Society is based upon the principle of the need for study and is in harmony with the great adult education movement which is being featured in the principal civilized nations. There was a time when it was felt that education and learning were for children and youths, that after maturity and marriage such work was over. As the professions were developed and more highly specialized, however, it was found that those who wished to enter these must have a longer training, so education for some, in some fields, became more extended. Adult women however were supposed to be through and to settle down to regular duties and the cares of life. Today we have the conception that education is a continuing process for all; that we should not become stagnant intellectually and rest on our oars; that even graduation from school or college is but the beginning of real life experience. We believe that we should go on with mental activity and education after marriage and as long as we live; that, after all, marriage and family life not only furnish the greatest opportunity for continuing education but 702 that they give the greatest incentive for such continuance. Communities today are not judged negatively by their per cent of illiteracy, but positively by their ability to bring joy and happiness to the world and salvation to men; by their ability to help build up human morale and to cure human ills. All of this requires intelligence and study and opportunity for advancement for everybody. The progress of adult education throughout the country today is most gratifying. It has recently been greatly stimulated by Federal Aid, the object of which is two-fold: First, to give opportunity to adults desiring to study which has been a great boon to men and women out of work, and secondly, to give work to able teachers and instructors who are in need of it. Since the work in Utah is typical of that going on elsewhere and bears out our idea of the need and importance of study for adults, and their response to opportunity, a few comments on this state's work will be to the point and will also be illuminating. Last year in this state 275 teachers were employed by the Federal Government for the purpose of adult education and 15,000 students were registered for the work. Of those registered 40% were men and 60% were women ranging in age from 18 to 80 years. So great is the interest that this vear 330 teachers RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE have been employed and a much larger registration is expected. Sixty subjects were taken up last year depending upon the desires of the local people. The subjects most popular were English, History, and Community Problems such as those which are included in our lessons for the Social Service Department. The most popular -of these three courses was Community Problems in connection with which public forums were held where there was open discussion and ample opportunity for people to express themselves. In Salt Lake City over 2,000 registered for the course. Americanization work was also popular and proved to be most important and far-reaching. In Salt Lake City alone 600 registered for this work. Of these 200 took out citizenship papers. 300 others outside of Salt Lake City also took out citizenship papers. The adult education work has been given under the supervision of the school principals of the junior high schools generally. How fortunate that the Relief Society sees fit to feature educational work for its members! And how fortunate that along with religious and cultural study subjects of such vital interest and importance as, Community Problems are included in the course. TEACHER Topic DEPARTMENT Hazel H. Greenwood, Chairman RECREATION HALL—LION HOUSE Wednesday, October 2—2 p. M. GREETINGS HAZEL H. GREENWOOD Member of the General Board O be a teacher of teachers is a very sacréd calling. The results of teaching, and its influence are more widely felt perhaps than any RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE other group in our Relief Society, organization. "Teaching has always been one of the major activities of the Latter-day Saints, not only to its membership, but to the world. This is a great day for study and preparation. Women are grasping every opportunity for advancement. Recognizing the law of self activity, women are taking every chance that is presented to them to participate in activities that give them experience. Knowing that the best life is the fullest one, and that happiness lies in action, we are giving our best in service to others. Following the welcome by the Chairman every phase of the Visiting Teachers' work, and the contacts she makes, were discussed in a most able manner. The following topics, and the sisters who treated 703 them, will indicate what a valuable Department this was: "The Teachers' Topic Class Leader," Elise B. Alder; "The General and Specific Objectives of the Teachers' Topic for 1935-1936," Amy W. Evans: "How to Introduce the Topic in the Following Types of Homes" (a) The Indifferent Home, Elizabeth L. Cox, Teacher Topic Leader, St. George Stake; (b) The non-L. D. S. Home, Jane P. Bowers, Cottonwood Stake Relief Society; (c) The Home Where There is Sickness or Other MisforneTU, Ina S. Carlson, Teacher Topic Leader, Logan Stake; (d) The Busy Home Where the Hostess is Unusually Occupied, Vida Thomas, Teacher Topic Leader, Salt Lake Stake; "The Teachers' Topic from the Viewpoint of the Hostess," Lisle F. Graham, First Counselor Liberty Stake Relief Society. Officers' Meetin § Counselor Kate M. Barker, Presiding ASSEMBLY HALL Thursday, October 3—10 a. Ml. OFFIcIAL INSTRUCTIONS COUNSELOR AMY BROWN LYMAN I AM sure you can realize, my dear sisters, what a real task it is for Sister Barker and me to try to take Sister Robison's place in connection with these meetings today, and we ask an interest in your faith and prayers that we may be able to carry on in some way that will be satisfactory and also helpful to you. The roll call, as always, was very interesting, and shows a good attendance. It reminds us how large and comprehensive our organization is. And that it encircles the whole globe. Since our last April Conference we have had the following organizations and reorganizations: Organisations Date Stake Appointed President Sept., 1935 Highland Nellie O. Parker May, 1935 North Idaho Falls Mary L. Hatch June, 1935 Oahu Eliza Salm  Reorganizations Date Stake Released Appointed President May, 1935 Deseret Martha C. Adams Inez B. Allred Sept., 1935 East Jordan Elfreda L. Jensen Alta Andrus Aug., 1935 Ensign Janet M. Thompson Radie O. Hyde Sept., 1935 Juab Edna J. Cazier Florence R. Winn Aug., 1935 North Sanpete Elizabeth D. Christensen Ruby S. Jensen Sept., 1935 Pioneer Edna T. Matson Lottie Fullmer Name of Fremont Stake changed to Rexburg Stake We are pleased to express appreciation for the excellent services that have been rendered by those Stake Presidents who have seen fit to give up the work. We appreciate all they have done in helping to forward our great cause during their administration. We also are pleased to welcome the new Stake Presidents, and sustain them with our faith and prayers. We want to say a few words today about the Magazine. Probably you have heard of that subject before. One thing that brings it forcibly to our minds is that we have just received a telegram from the Big Horn Stake, stating that they have gone over the top 107 %. That was cheering news. We would like to announce that we still have some back numbers of the Magazine, beginning with May, 1935. Many people who are subscribing for the first time are anxious to get these back numbers because the lesson outlines began this year in May. We have had some questions this year regarding our Magazine Drive. Some have wondered if we could change it to some other period, so that it would include the months when the lesson outlines begin. Some people start their subscriptions in the Fall, and are anxious lest they will not get the back numbers which gifts you could make. Contain the lessons. Others subscribing at the same time prefer to start with the current month, and still they would like to have the lessons. There is one way to surmount this difficulty, and that would be to subscribe for the year round. I do not know whether anyone has ever thought of that as a real answer to this question. If you would subscribe for the year round you would always have your back numbers and also your current numbers when they are current. At whatever time one subscribes there is always this question about lessons, as it is necessary to publish them rather far in advance. We have been receiving some three months subscriptions. It is really quite difficult to handle them, difficult for the Stake and Ward Agents and also for the office. We prefer that no subscription be for a shorter time than six months. We are very much delighted with the interest that is being taken this year in the Magazine Drive. We have one or two suggestions to make. We think it would be a very fine thing for you, when you desire to send gifts, to send a subscription to the Magazine instead of flowers. Also a subscription for the Magazine for Mother's Day or for a Christmas present would be one of the loveliest This would Sept., 1935 North Davis Elizabeth H. Layton Sept., 1935 South Sevier Annetta Christensen Mary L. Barton Jetta Marquardsen RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE be very helpful and encouraging to your Magazine Agents. They are having quite a struggle, working very hard, and it would be courteous and fine thing if we could support them in any way we possibly can. In our visits to the Stakes this year we have been very much pleased with the fine flower shows that have been given. We think it is marvelous for our women to be so interested in building up and beautifying their communities that they spend time and effort in raising and displaying lovely flowers. These shows have been a great attraction, and have given satisfaction to both local people and to visitors. Brother George F. Richards was very much delighted with a flower show given at a conference he attended recently. We are very anxious for our women to be civic and community minded, and it would be a marvelous thing if we could not only raise flowers, but if we would make an effort to do other things to make our communities more attractive. I have often wondered why, during this depression, when so many men have been out of work, somebody did not mobilize them in the interest of community improvement—repairing broken fences, cleaning up streets and cemeteries, eradicating weeds, etc. I hope that by next Spring we in the Relief Society will have some plans for this work. Of course, there are still some things that can be done this Autumn, but in the Spring let us keep this in mind. If we desire to have our young people remain in our communities, and be interested in them, we must do something to make them more attractive. It takes real effort, but I believe if the Relief Society women would decide on projects of this type we could do a great deal to beautify our homes and communities. The question has come up a number of times about the attendance of Visiting Teachers at regular Ward Relief Society meetings. A Ruling has recently been made in the General Board that Relief Society teachers should attend regular Ward Relief Society meetings. Course their duties are rather arduous, but how Relief Society teachers encourage others to come, how can they explain what is going on in the meetings, if they do not attend themselves teachers who feel that they cannot an important thing for the teachers to know the work in the closest touch with it. A great Many County Welfare Boards have been appointed recently, ties that there are fine women everywhere who have spent a great deal the interest of welfare members 07 such Boards. You would think there ought to be at least two women on the board composed of six members, and the same proportion 706 where they are larger. I believe that if we will make a little effort in this direction we will be able to accomplish something. We also feel that women should be represented on Boards of Education, and on City Commissions. You know women have a definite viewpoint, and wherever human welfare is involved we think there should be a woman's viewpoint. It is a strange thing that men are always willing for women to keep up their own homes, do their washing and ironing, cooking, mending, etc., but when it comes to institutions of the State, where there is much housekeeping to be done, they think they can supervise them without assistance from women. Where human beings are housed in a State institution there should be women on the Board of such an institution because of the housekeeping to be done, supplies to be purchased, clothing, sheets and pillow cases, etc., to be kept in repair. Women also have definite and valuable contributions to make in civic and educational affairs, and should have the opportunity to help in these fields. We have the vote, let us see what we can do toward stirring up an interest in this direction. We have fine women in all our communities who are qualified for community work. One time I was sitting in a meeting where Stake appointments were being discussed, and a woman had suggested another woman's name for one of the appointments on a State commission. As soon as her name was mentioned these men began to get uneasy in their chairs. One man finally said, "We really ought to have a lawyer in this place. Is this woman a lawyer?" The sponsor said, "No, but her husband is a lawyer. I think she could get advice very quickly from him." "Well she RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ought to be so qualified herself." In a few days the appointment was given to a man. The woman sponsor then asked, "Is this man qualified? Is he a lawyer?" "Well, no," was the answer, "but he is a man." Therefore he was qualified. It seems that women must have special qualifications. Of course, in recommending women for public positions, we should recommend women who are able and fitted for such positions. Let us be interested in these things, and let us see what we can do towards extending the appointment of women in these particular fields. This year, in our Work and Business meeting we are recommending a book, Handicrafts for Every Woman, and we hope that you will all be interested in this book, that you will go through it, and see if you cannot apply some of the suggestions in your own Stakes and in your own homes. There are many phases of work outlined in this manual, with instructions and illustrations, and we believe that in every community there is something in it that will be helpful. I opened the book the other day at the chapter on painting. You know paint is not very expensive, and with a little instruction from this book we could all paint up our porches and old chairs. There are also instructions on how to renovate and modernize furniture. We do not know exactly how you will want to take up the work in the manual, but we are leaving it to you to go through this book. And pick out the things which will be most helpful to you in your own homes and communities. We feel this book should be in every Ward library in the Relief Society. The question has come up a number of times regarding quilting. Minimum prices to be charged for quilting are suggested in the Handbook. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE We think that no quilt for custom work should be quilted for a smaller price than the price listed in the Handbook. When you make fancy quilts you should charge what the work is worth. I was. In a Stake recently where twelve women worked all day on a quilt—four on one side, four on the other, and two on each end. They worked all day and charged about $2.00. This would average sixteen and two-thirds cents for each woman's work. This is not enough. In another Stake, they charge by the spool or amount of thread used. This is a little better.