1 Curtains By Grace Zenor Pratt MOST every one has a hobby of some kind. A certain country doctor had a collection of white Angora cats. He was very fond of them and about the only time he was seen to lose his temper was when some thoughtless person teased one of his cats. Minna was a woman who would never have been interested in the usual thing. Stamps held no attraction for her; it was rarely she noted even the color. She would perhaps never have noticed that the Mother's Day stamp is engraved with a picture of "Whistler's Mother." Often she laughingly said, when some neighbor showed her her choice roses, that she just didn't have a knack with flowers, or plants, that she couldn't even make an onion grow. But after all Minna had a hobby —just an every day sort of one it's true, but disturbing, nevertheless. Perhaps Minna's folks were not very observant or they might have discovered it many times, in different ways. When the new magazines came, especially "Good Housekeeping" or the "Ladies' Home Companion," with their pages on interior decorating, and illustrations, one might have seen the eagerness with which Minna turned the pages and critically studied the draperies; not the furnishings in particular, nor the rugs, although she loved the harmonious colors, the graceful turn of a stair, and appreciated the built in simplicity of a cabinet; it was always to some window decoration she turned, with draperies of sheer nets or pretentious folds of silk and velvet; bedrooms with crisp cool panels of swiss or voile held Minna's eyes. Then putting the book down with a sigh, she would look speculatingly at the windows of the room where she sat and imagine if she had the money to spare, how different the shabby dining room would look with cream and blue drapes, and a set of new cushions for the couch, to match. John might have noticed on that trip to town each month, to buy the household supplies, that Minna always looked longest at the store windows which featured draperies, but John was usually concerned about the price of potatoes or oats or corn and often grew impatient waiting for her on the next corner. WHEN Minna and John were first married and making a home of the little adobe house with its small plain windows, they had smiled more than once at the pains she had taken to curtain each win  dow adequately at the sacrifice of other more important details. Those same little unpainted windows were always polished and shining and the simple cheap curtains were always immaculate through those hard years when there was always so much to do for the children, for the big household, for herself and the baby, who had developed from time to time, and still looked queer in the dim light. Each window had been carefully measured and illustrated in her mind for ampler proportions, and the measurements laid away with the magazine clippings and illustrations of styles in window draping and drapery material. PERHAPS it was that night at the movies that put it into John's head; Minna seldom took an evening off and this was such a treat. She could scarcely wait until they were through their shopping and in the quiet cool theatre. It was a play about wealthy people with their lovely homes and Minna enjoyed every minute. She said, "John, isn't that curtain of the heroine's bedroom a dream, I adore curtains. And she herself had come to indulge her hobby; she fairly gloated over the thought for days, but one afternoon, she saw Rob riding in with a worried face. The prize Jersey was dead; that was the price of a whole houseful of curtains. JOHN had come home the next day from the village with a pleased expression and a huge bundle under his arm. "Bought you some curtains, Minna, I figured you dont have any fancy ones and old man Larsen's were selling out. Bought their tools and they just had these curtains left. Pretty nifty, too." Minna smiled; sometimes it's hard to smile, and took the bundle indoors. There were three coarse lace drapes with some sort of pretentious iceberg design but none of them were mates. "Antiques !" she exclaimed. It was just too bad! With that money John had spent for those old things, she might have bought some beautiful new curtains of the style that was almost a fade-out, even then. But time passes rather swiftly when one is always busy and there are little children to care for and sewing and mending to be done, chickens to raise, strawberries to gather and preserve, even the old curtains were forgotten. When baby came along one must forget trivial things, yet when things were right side up again and Minna washed and ironed the frayed old curtains the vision returned, though not quite so buoyantly. She wished she might be reckless, gather the poor things up in a heap, put them in the old chest out in the shed and turn the key. The old house had long been replaced with a newer, more commodious one. Little by little there came a better car, newer machinery, a bigger barn, and finally a radio. There were big clear windows in the new house but Minna was almost afraid to indulge in her dream now. The girls were at home so little. And styles had changed. Minna was a little afraid of the criticism of these grown-up sophisticated daughters of hers. One evening she and John sat talking things over. It was so pleasant on the big veranda in the easy chairs. It is always so restful to talk things over at the close of day. "I think, Minna, I'll go into town for a couple of days this week end; you come along, too." You know we're out of debt now and that little piece of land I sold last week netted us a couple of thousand, cash. It's in the bank. You don't need to slave with setting hens and strawberries and butter now, Minna. Let's get a little fun out of life!" That was a long speech for John, but it made Minna happy and they sat there late, planning the new pieces of furniture they would buy, and just how they would spend their holiday. 'John, I do believe I'll buy curtains for the whole house while I'm at it. I could get one of those decorators to help, couldn't I?" "I don't know about that, wife, I guess their pretty high falutin' and expensive, too. You could do that part yourself as good as any decorator." Minna lay awake studying over her curtain problem and gloating over this dream about to be fulfilled. THE very next afternoon, Dan Gillespie stopped at the gate with the news that the Farmer's Bank had failed. "O John, and all our money gone!" That was all Minna could say as she looked at John's strained face, then she had gone back to work with the hens and little chickens. How futile! How many hundreds of these little chickens she should need to raise to make 669 up two thousand dollars! How many tons of hay John would have to mow and rake and bale to make two thousand dollars! But still life goes on! MINNA had always loved music but there had been so many small music lessons to oversee she had neglected to keep up her own practice. Now, the big piano was often silent only when the children were at home. "John," she said, suddenly, one day as she sat down on the piano bench to chat a moment, "you used to like to hear me play, didn't you?" "U-huh," John grunted, glancing up abstractedly from the newspaper. John was soon engrossed in the market prices and politics. Minna searched among the stacked music. She had always loved a certain Prelude by Chopin; she wondered if she could play it now. Her slender hands were roughened and veined by other tasks, and browned by sun and wind. She played softly, the opening bars, then gaining confidence, she forgot John's indifference, and the roughened hands, the divine power of the music flooded her soul as she played on. She finished, softly, the stately movement. Her technique may not have been perfect, but the interpretation had been all that a lover of Chopin could ask. "My dear," John had laid the paper aside, and had been listening. "My dear, why don't you play more? Do you know I like your music better than the girls' fantastic things." He was growing roses on the side—rare varieties; they seemed to supply for John that something that he needed these days for complete contentment. But there was yet "an unfinished symphony" of blues and creams; of snowy nets and conventional designs in some recess of Minna's brain. Ada would finish College in June and would be home in August, the other children would be along for a visit, too, about then. How she would like to freshen things up a bit—why all those old curtains looked as if they had come from a rummage sale. Curtains! That was it; she would measure the windows this very afternoon. The rugs needed cleaning too, and there was need of paint and polish also. There was the strawberry and apricot jam to be sealed and put away. How those boys would enjoy that sun-made jam. She could still remember how they'd eaten such quantities when they were little boys, and thought smiling to herself as she fastened the lids securely, how they had never outgrown the habit. But she must hurry to do all she had planned for the afternoon. Somehow she'd been so busy with graduations and weddings, she had just neglected her house. She was again anticipating a pleasant adventure. AFTER lunch, John went to the village store for some mower extras, and Minna hurriedly put the lunch things away and fed the flock of young chickens. She remembered the collection of illustrations she had put away in those earlier years. How long to wait to realize a desire! The windows, pictured in the little box, as well as their draperies, were rather odd looking and out of date. She decided to do the measuring and get expert help in the furnishing department. That would be a simple matter these days when there was money to pay for it. Those tall casements in the dining room were difficult to reach; Minna searched about for something convenient to climb upon; the step-ladder was almost too heavy to carry RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in alone. She found a small narrow table on the back porch. This would be just the thing; Minna, who had once been so quick and light of limb, found it now, rather a task to climb to the table and steady herself while she reached upward. She had seen some lovely old blue brocade just last week, the very thing; it would look well with the creamy walls and the shelf of old delft ware, near the buffet. She glanced across at the shelf—and was clutching at the air; the table tipped, and Minna's slender body was a crumpled heap on the dining room floor. MANY hours later, in the hospital she awoke to consciousness. John was there with a worried face. Ada was there—and Ada had been so busy with graduation: and Ron, too! Why they were all there, and they all had their own work to do. John needed to be mowing hay. Was it only yesterday she had been playing Chopin to John? "Feel better, mother?" Ron asked, as a white aproned nurse came with a thermometer. She remembered now, quite suddenly, a shelf of blue delft ware, and something about curtains! Measuring the windows, that was it, and the table tipped! Minna laughed, those pesky curtains, she'd never, never get them now! "What is it, mother?" She tried to speak, but the room and beloved faces faded away in a mist of cream and blue. THE summer had somehow slipped away amid pain and lethargy, and now the tang of autumn was in the air and autumn flowers bloomed in riotous profusion on the spacious hospital grounds. Down home, the hills would be blue and smoky; the late grapes would be delicious now. Minna had intended trying some of that new conserve for winter. She had bought those tall slender glasses for containers. My! Things must be in a dreadful mixup, at home, with only a hired woman to see to things, and it was so difficult to get an efficient one. But Minna was going back next Sunday. She was glad to think of going home again, almost well— anyway she could walk. They had been afraid for a time that she never would. That would have been a tragedy. But she dreaded the condition of the house after all this time. She had meant to have everything so nice for the children's annual visit and now she had spoiled everything. Minna had taken cold the day she had taken that airing at the hospital; that meant a few more weeks spent impatiently until she could sit up again. She could see from her windows, that the maples were crimson and sycamores russet and gold. The aster beds were in flower. It was near Thanksgiving time. T was Thanksgiving day when John and Ada came in to drive her home. John had brought her the loveliest dress, silvery grey with a touch of soft delicate blue. When she came out to the sitting room, John came to meet her. "Why, Minna, you look like the sweetheart of mine you used to be. It's done you good to be here. A good rest was all you needed to make you slim and pretty. Your hands are white like they used to be. You will play for me, Minna?" Minna had smiled and blushed and called father "an old flatterer." OW nice and homey the house looked, and the other children were there too; Ron's roadster and 671 Stanley's Buick were at the gate. How nice to see the children at home again. As they came down the walk they cried, "Welcome home, mother!" There was a wood fire burning softly in the big fireplace in the living room, and an odor of appetizing food was in the air. It was a sunny day, but as Minna entered the big room there was the impression of a rosy, pleasant color scheme apparent. "Here, mother, rest on the couch awhile." "What perfectly lovely cushions!"' Minna sat up suddenly. Why the rug was new, a rosy tan, soft and silky. Her gaze strayed upward. The windows! She was standing now, clasping and unclasping her hands. "I want to know who did it so beautifully, so perfectly? Why, it's my dream come true!" The crystal vase on the piano held two or three of father's late exquisite roses; she crossed the room slowly and caressed the flowers with trembling fingers. Through the open doorway she could glimpse the dining room with its long table spread with snowy linen and silver, on to the tall casements beyond draped in old blue and creamy marquisette. "How perfectly lovely!" "But children, John, how did you know; how could you guess?" It was Ada who answered, "Why, mother darling, you talked about nothing but curtains, for days, at the hospital. Rose for the living room to match father's roses: blue and cream for the dining room and nets and swiss for all the bedrooms. Come take a peek."