Lesson Department (For First Week in April) Theology and Testimony LESSON VII THE EVERLASTING COVENANT OF MARRIAGE 1. Marriage Basic to Civilization. The human race without marriage would immediately face one of two calamities; namely, extinction or debasement below the level of the savage. Marriage is the foundation stone upon which civilization rests. Without it, degradation would know no bounds; with it, the human race may ascend close to the height of the gods. 2. Quite aside therefore from the question of racial continuance, marriage is basic in the affairs of human progress. The divine pronouncement that man is not without the woman, nor the woman without the man in the Lord, possesses far more than theological significance. The man, with his superior muscular power and ruggedness of intellect, needs the leavening influence of the woman's gentleness and refinement. Likewise the woman, with her native reticence and retirement, needs the buoyancy of the man's strength and love of adventure. Neither can reach the highest possible attainment without the other. When man and woman are properly united they can travel much farther and much happier than either can travel alone. 3. The Home. Then too, it may also be said that without the home, civilization would rapidly decline and quickly disappear, for it is from this source that man obtains his most lasting as well as his most basic impressions. It is here that he spends his childhood, the truly plastic period of his lifetime; it is here that he is taught to pray and to revere the God who made him; it is here that he learns to love the two who gave him earthly life?his mother and his father?they upon whom he can depend even if the rest of the world deserts him. 4. And it is within the home that mature devotion is established between the husband and the wife? the product of love and service. It is here that the husband obtains his rest and receives encouragement to meet the problems of the day; it is here that the wife reigns supreme, administering with tireless and tender hands to those whom God has given her. This is the family unit, the place of greatest earthly happiness, the shrine of highest human attainment?the home, blessed of God and sacred to men. 5. Permanent Endurance. And yet the vast majority of human beings, even those who have faith in the continuance of life beyond the grave, entertain the belief that the family union terminates with death. Indeed this conviction is so deeply entrenched in human practices that nearly every marriage ceremony contains the provision that the compact extends only until death separates the contracting parties. The assumed reality of such a condition, however, stands as a cruel and unavoidable specter before the vision of all who are thus united in marriage. To them it means that the family relationship, with all its loveliness and beauty, will be brought to LESSON DEPARTMENT a sudden close with the advent of the grave, never to reappear in the resurrection. There are few sadder conditions in human experience than that of a husband or wife standing at the open bier of the departed companion entertaining no hope for renewal of relationship, not even in the distant eternities of future time. 6. Such a doctrine, however, is scarcely more than a repudiation of Divine justice?a denial of the parenthood of God. Not even a human being, devoid of the Eternal sense of right and wrong, would impose such a condition upon his seemingly helpless children, for where is the earthly parent who would separate those who love one another and never permit them to reunite again? And yet the family is only found in the Celestial Kingdom. And surely God is not so unmindful of his children as they are of their own. 7. If a consensus of human opinion were available, it would doubtless be to the effect that next in point of desirability to the resurrection of the dead, is the continuance of family relationship in the world to come. Indeed, the husband and the wife become so much a part of one another that the resurrection of the body would be scarcely more than a sombre reality, the one without the other. It is easily conceivable, too, that we will need one another then as much as we need one another now, both as a matter of happiness and of progress. Moreover, it is interesting to observe that it is not the part of Deity to create indispensable earthly institutions only to destroy them with the world to come. 8. Obedience Necessary. Occasionally the belief is expressed among the more understanding sectarians that the husband and the wife will belong to one another in the future world. But, plainly, it 715 is not sufficient merely to hope that such will be the case; it is not enough merely to leave the matter to the "wisdom and justice of God." To do so would not be greatly unlike the parent who hoped his children would do well in life but who made no effort to convert his hopes into reality. If blessings are to be received, the laws upon which they are predicated must be obeyed. This applies to everything within the realm of reality, spiritual as well as physical. 9. If, therefore, a man has hopes of receiving his wife in the resurrection, he should obey the law that makes such a condition possible. When the Savior was upon the earth in the meridian of time, he spoke to his disciples as follows: 'Whatsoever ye shall bind on earth, shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever ye shall loose on earth, shall be loosed in heaven." (Matthew 18:18) This authority however was lost and according to self admission, the sectarian world possesses no power by which to unite man and woman in the family relationship for longer than the present life. 10. Authority Restored. The Lord, however, has not left his people helpless. On the occasion of Moroni's first visit to the Prophet at Palmyra, he quoted from the book of Malachi, thus: 'Behold, I will reveal unto you the Priesthood, by the hand of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. * * * And he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers. If it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at his coming." (Pearl of Great Price, page 51) 11. This prophecy was fulfilled some twelve years later in the Kirt716 land temple, April 3, 1836. On this occasion the Prophet and Oliver Cowdery had retired to the pulpit, the veils being dropped, for prayer. The Savior, Moses, and Elias visited them. Then, as the Prophet records: "After this vision had closed, another great and glorious vision burst upon us; for Elijah the Prophet, who was taken to heaven without tasting death, stood before us and said: Behold, the time has fully come, which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi?testifying that he (Elijah) should 'be sent before the great and dreadful day of the Lord come? to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse ? Therefore, the Keys of this dispensation are committed unto your hands; and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful day of the Lord is near, even at the doors." (D. And C. 110: 13-16) 12. It is of course understood by the Latter-day Saints that the Keys of the Priesthood, as restored by Elijah, are as necessary in the marrying of the living as in the sealing of the dead. 13. Marriage for Eternity. The revelation concerning the eternity of the marriage covenant was committed to writing in the upper room of the Prophet's store, July 12, 1843,? slightly more than one year after the introduction of the temple ceremony at the same place. William Clayton, the Prophet's private clerk, wrote the revelation as it was dictated to him. Hyrum Smith, the Prophet's brother, was also present. There are many matters in the revelation pertinent to the present discussion, but space will not permit extended treatment here. It is recommended that the entire revelation RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE be read as a matter of preparation. (See D. And C., Section 132) 14. It is important for the Latter-day Saints to bear in mind that the Keys of the Priesthood necessary to unite man and wife for eternity are held only by the President of the Church. He may delegate this authority to others, and likewise, withdraw it as he may choose. Following is the word of the Lord: "There is never but one on the earth at a time on whom this power and the Keys of this Priesthood are conferred." (D. And C. 132:7) 15. The Lord has the following to say concerning marriages that are consummated according to his law: "If a man marry a wife by word, which is my law, and by the new and everlasting covenant, and it is sealed unto them by the Holy Spirit of promise, by him who is anointed, unto whom I have appointed this power and the keys of this priesthood, * * * it shall be done unto them in all things whatsoever my servant hath put upon them, in time and through all eternity; and shall be of full force when they are out of the world." (D. And C. 132:19) 16. Eternal Progress. The Lord has made it possible that by continued obedience to law those who are thus united in marriage may go on and on to ever-increasing heights; for, according to his word: "They shall pass by the angels, and the gods which are set there to their exaltation and glory in all things, as hath been sealed upon their heads, which glory shall be a fulness and a continuation of the seeds forever and ever. Then shall they be gods, because they have no end; therefore shall they be from everlasting to everlasting because they continue; then shall they be above all because all things are subject unto them. Then shall they be gods because they LESSON DEPARTMENT have all power, and the angels are subject unto them. Verily, verily, I say unto you, except ye abide my law, ye cannot attain to this glory." (D. And C. 132:19-21) 17. Continued Increase. The following quotations are self-explanatory. While at Ramus, Illinois, the Prophet said to William Clayton: "Except a man and his wife enter into an everlasting covenant and are married for eternity, while in this probation, by the power and authority of the Holy Priesthood, they will. Cease to increase when they die; that is, they will not have any children after the resurrection. But those who are married by the power and authority of the Priesthood in this life, and continue without committing the sin against the Holy Ghost, will continue to increase and have children in the celestial glory." (History of the Church, Vol. V, p. 391) 18. Again: "In the celestial glory there are three heavens or degrees; and in order to obtain the highest, a man must enter into this order of the priesthood (meaning the new and everlasting covenant of marriage); and if he does not, he cannot obtain it. He may enter into the others, but that is the end of his Kingdom; he cannot have an increase." (D. And C. 131:1-4) Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. Enumerate a dozen or more ways in which husband and wife should be mutually helpful to one another. 2. Enumerate a dozen or more ways in which mothers can make their homes more attractive to their husbands and children. 3. Why in your judgment is continuance of the marriage covenant beyond the grave essential to future happiness? 4. Explain why obedience to law is necessary to the reception of all blessings. Be specific?Why is it necessary that this law should be of universal application? 5. After the Priesthood was restored by Peter, James and John, why was it necessary that Elijah should come? What did he bring? 6. Why is it wisdom that the Keys of the Priesthood should not be held by more than one person at a time? 7. Contrast the future possibilities of those who are married in the temple with those who are not. 8. Generally speaking, why should couples who are married in the temple be much happier and more progressive than those who are married merely for the period of their earthly existence? Work and Business ACCORDING to the newspapers and magazines knitting is very much in vogue. In fact it is quite as popular, as during: the war. What more pleasant and profitable pastime could there be for the long winter evenings while listening to the radio? See page 67 of Handicraft for Everywoman for explanations of the knitting process. Refer to page 185 for sources of more instructions in Knitting and Crochet. For thrifty Christmas Gifts suggestions see page 135.  CONSUMER'S PROBLEMS Lesson 3. BUDGETING. "Just live within your income, for There's always this about it, You'll have to live within it, or Some day you'll live without it." TO distinguish between those things that yield merely transitory pleasure and those that furnish enduring satisfaction requires careful analysis, but it is worthwhile. This is the basic principle in budget making whether applied to money, time or energy. A budget is essentially a financial plan applied to meet the needs of a family or of an individual. To apply business methods consistently and intelligently the housewife needs to know the economic condition in her own community. So long as families and individuals have different goals and ambitions, so long as their standards of living differ, their methods of spending will vary?since spending is but a means of achieving what they have decided is most worthwhile in life. Division of income gives general guides to be used as bases in planning expenditures to meet particular needs. They must be adapted. The budget is related to the whole scheme of living. Right social attitudes need to be created which will recognize the importance of economic security and a decent living wage, for no one can budget to her satisfaction on an unstable or inadequate income. For the purpose of character and personality building, every man, woman and child should have an allowance to spend according to his or her ideals. Proper guidance may be necessary. Some advantages of budget: 1. Decreases waste. 2. Increases capacity to buy wisely. 3. Removes temptation to buy spasmodically. 4. Rids one of feeling of inadequacy. 5. Eliminates competition in family and other groups. 6. Safeguards against present day super salesmanship. 7. Educates in value and use of money. 8. Gives better goods and service. 9. Overcomes lack of system of orderliness. 10. Lessens tendency to tolerate the mediocre and tawdry whether in tangible things or in social relationships. Choice between Difficulties: 1. No opportunity to budget. 2. Dividing money between different needs. 3. Living within budget. 4. Knowledge of values. 5. Choosing the most important thing. 6. Lack of knowledge of business arithmetic. Some reasons why women do not budget: 1. Too small or no regular income. 2. Over confidence in ability to manage without plan. 3. Not interested. 4. Lack of ingenuity. LESSON DEPARTMENT 5. Underestimate of education and ability to follow plan. Questions and Topics for Discussion 1. What is a budget and how does it differ from keeping accounts? 2. Why is it economically important to use one? 719 3. Discuss other vital points to consider in making a budget. 4. How do you divide your income and which item do you consider of most importance? Why? 5. Divide the dollar spent for food so it will be practical, nutritional and economical and give reasons for your division. Teachers' Topic (For April 1936) PROVERBS 3:5, 6 "Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, And lean not unto thine own understanding; In all thy ways acknowledge him, And he shall direct thy paths." PROBABLY there was never a time when individuals have felt that their own understanding had led them so far astray in the solving of economic and religious problems as at present. Certainly. In the home the parents feel that more than ever they need guidance and the help of the Lord in the rearing of their children to help them to withstand the numerous temptations confronting them. In this proverb a very definite blessing is given to those who put their trust in Him?a blessing that fills a very paramount need in the lives of all of us. It is pleasing in the eyes of the Lord for us to put our trust in Him. He is ever mindful of us and by trusting in Him we open the door for the Comforter, the spirit of Truth, to come to bring things to our remembrance and show us things to come. To pray earnestly and constantly is to show to the Lord that we have faith in his guidance and to acknowledge our willingness to be led. To trust in the Lord when changes beset our lives and disappointments fall is not the easiest thing to do but it is the surest way to obtain peace of mind. Had we the larger vision to understand the why of conditions then such great faith would not be required of us in our trusting. "Perhaps no man in the church ever felt more profoundly the truth of the words, 'God moves in a mysterious way, His wonders to perform,' than Wilford Woodruff." To Latter-day Saints his life stands as a vital example of what we mean by trusting in the Lord with all one's heart and letting God direct one's paths. His was not a blind trust but he constantly sought the Lord in earnest prayer and through dreams and visions he received wisdom and intuition to guide him. Many miraculous instances of where the Lord guided and directed Wilford Woodruff are given in his journal. In one section he "records a miraculous escape by one of those spiritual impressions that frequently came across his life. He had tied his mules to an oak-wood tree beside which he was camping. His children were sleeping in the wagon, and he felt impressed to move from his 720 camping ground, so he moved his children into a house. Only a short time elapsed when a thunder-storm swept over the place in great fury. Of the circumstance he writes: 'We had just retired when the storm reached us in great fury, and in a moment the large oak came thundering down to the ground with a terrific crash. Had I not moved my mules, it would probably have killed them. Had I not moved my carriage, it would have been crushed to atoms, and we would have been killed, as the tree fell where my carriage stood.. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE I consider my impression as interposition of Providence to save our lives." ("Wilford Woodruff," by M. F. Cowley) 1. Tell how you have, had your way made plain by prayer and by manifesting a trust in the Lord to help you. 2. In what way does this particular proverb promise help in the complicated life situations of the present day? 3. Discuss the relationship between faith and trust. Could you give complete trust without faith? Literature (For Third Week in April) ADVENTURES IN READING COMPANIONABLE Books "The pleasant books that silently among Our household treasures take familiar places." ?Longfellow. COMPANIONABLE BOOKS like friends are those that we keep near to us and call upon often for our comfort and delight. Fortunate is the man with such friends for his every mood, grave or gay, for his every need, pleasure or profit. From our company of book friends we call a companion for the quiet hour by the fireside, or the lonely hour near a night lamp. Great men have recorded their most precious thoughts in books. All of life with its tragedy and comedy is faithfully revealed by the silent magic of language. The reader has but to beckon, "Come, my best friends, my books, and lead me on," and a good company is at his service. "Books are the true levellers. They give to all who faithfully use them, the society, the spiritual presence, of the best and greatest of our race."?Channing. Two Companionable Books The lives of two great humanists of the eighteenth century are recorded in two companionable books, "The Life of Samuel Johnson," by James Boswell and "The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin." When modern society was evolving at a rapid rate through exploration and conquest, education and science, these men lived, one on each hemisphere, yet both speaking one language?English. Samuel Johnson, a great scholar, who wrote a dictionary, many essays and biographies, and several classical poems, was also a wise man who laid down the law on letters and in morals to eighteenth century England. Benjamin Franklin, one of the wisest and most illustrious of eighteenth century Americans was interested in literary clubs, magazines, circulating LESSON DEPARTMENT libraries, academics, reformed spelling, almanacs, proverbs, electricity, lightning-rods, stoves, the harmonica, the Latin, Italian, Spanish, and French languages, the Declaration of Independence, and the Constitution of the United States. Both men lived parallel lives, the dates of birth and death differing by but a few years, each in his own country. Each life as is recorded has become a "best-seller" for well over a century, evidence enough that these works are well-loved,-and for that reason they are companionable books. Samuel Johnson, A Sturdy Believer James Boswell made himself famous when he gave to the world the "Rich intellectual treasure," the Life of Samuel Johnson, a book to become the choice companion of many a book lover. Samuel Johnson's life is a fascinating romance. His early life was a series of struggles. Born in 1709 in the country town of Lichfield, this brilliant son of a poor bookseller found a rich environment. The boy struggled through Oxford without income and a proud spirit that made him throw away a pair of shoes given to him for charity. Several attempts at teaching proved unsuccessful. Then Johnson tried his hand at many types of writing. Many a night he walked the streets of London not having the money to pay for a bed. Then he conceived the idea of a dictionary of the English language. This stupendous undertaking brought fame to Samuel Johnson, and a pension from the English government that made him independent. He became the founder of the famous literary club and reigned as monarch over the members which included Boswell, Goldsmith, Gibbons, Benke, and Sir Joshua Reynolds. 721 Johnson wrote numerous poems, among which the best is "The Vanity of Human Wishes." '"'Rasselas," an allegorical romance, was written in one week in order to pay the expenses of his mother's funeral. The work, "Lives of the English Poets," is still of great literary value. Johnson's power lay in his personality, his immense intellectual power, and his high moral sense. His shrewd gift of observation made him the most decisive man of his time and country. Gathered from his brilliant conversation, his friend, James Boswell, recorded the wisdom which keeps Johnson today a living figure. Hour after hour Johnson's friends would listen enthralled by the utterances of the strange, uncouth man in slovenly dress. He was a big honest soul with a reverence for mankind. The kindness and generosity of Johnson was known to many who suffered as he had suffered. It was his custom to keep a book of "Prayers and Meditations" by his bed. These were printed after his death, and they reveal more than anything else could do the inner life that gave life to his wisdom. James Boswell, a little hero-worshiping Scotchman, spent much of his time in the company of Samuel Johnson. From his notes about the activities of his friend and his conversation, Boswell created one of the greatest biographies in the English language. "Read diligently in the great book of mankind" was the secret Johnson gave to his biographer. Johnson was always doing it. This is the reason Boswell was able to make a great book, mankind is in it as Johnson revealed it. Quotations from Samuel Johnson recorded by James Boswell in his biography: ? "Slow rises worth, by poverty depressed." 722 "A man should keep his friendship in constant repair." "Perfect good breeding consists in having no particular mark of any profession, but a general elegance of manners." "It matters not how a man dies, but how he lives." "The decent provision for the 'poor is the true test of civilization." "Life is a progress from want to want, not from enjoyment to enjoyment." "Getting money is not all a man's business; to cultivate kindness is a valuable part of the business of life." "Be not angry that you cannot make others as you wish them to be, since you cannot make yourself as you wish to be." "A man cannot with propriety speak of himself except he relates simple facts." "Never lie in your prayers; never confess more than you really believe; never promise more than you mean to perform." "Knowledge of two kinds. We know a subject ourselves, or we know where we can find information upon it." "He left the name at which the world grew pale, To paint a moral or adorn a tale." Benjamin Franklin's Autobiography Benjamin Franklin, the man "whose majestic virtues made him idolized in France, feared in England, and obeyed in America," at the age of sixty-five, in 1771, sat down in the Bishop of St. Asaph's house at Turyford in England, where he was an honored guest, to write for his son the story of his life. He was eighty-three years old when he finished the last pages in Philadelphia. The man was greater than the book. In a few hundred pages the wisest man of his country related the details of his life in simRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ple style. There is no affectation, no vanity in the record; it is shrewd, direct, and vivid. A nation's builder told his own story simply and honestly.?'"A wit and philosopher, rich in learning, charming in manners, ripe in the wisdom of the world, resourceful in dealing with men and events, he was one of the most delightful as he was one of the greatest men produced by the English race in the eighteenth century." Benjamin Franklin was born in Boston in 1706, the youngest son and the fifteenth of seventeen children. An industrious boy, he entered an apprenticeship in his brother's printing shop, and before he was seventeen years old he wrote essays after the fashion of Addison. The variety and number of the activities of his life are best summarized. 1. In 1727 he established the ''Pennsylvania Gazette" which later became the "Saturday Evening Post." 2. In 1729 he founded the first circulating library in America. 3. In 1749 he founded the Academy which later became the University of Pennsylvania. 4. As an inventor he perfected the stove and devised methods of street-lighting. 5. As a scientist he identified lightning and electricity. 6. In 1754 was Colonial agent to London. 7. He was a framer of the Declaration of Independence. 8. He was a member of the French Court. 9. He was a framer of the Constitution of the United States. Out of the great mass of Franklin's writings, two are remembered today: "Poor Richard's Almanac" and the "Autobiography." Franklin made a religion of action, putting it into a simple creed naming virtues and precepts: These names of virtues and their precepts were: 1. Temperance?Eat not to dullness; drink not to elevation. LESSON DEPARTMENT 2. Silence?Speak not but what may benefit others or yourself; avoid trifling conversation. 3. Order?Let all your things have their places; let each part of your business have its time. 4, Resolution?Resolve to perform what you ought; perform without fail what you resolve. 5. Frugality?Make no expense but to do good to others or yourself; i. E., waste nothing. 6. Industry?Lose no time; be always employed in something useful; cut off all unnecessary actions. 7. Sincerity?Use no hurtful deceit; think innocently and justly; and, if you speak, speak accordingly. 8. Justice?Wrong none by doing injuries, or omitting the benefits that are your duty. 9. Moderation?Avoid extremes; forbear resenting injuries so much as you think they deserve. 10. Cleanliness?Tolerate no uncleanliness in body, clothes, or habitation. 11. Tranquility?Be not disturbed at trifles, or at accidents common or unavoidable. 12. Chastity. 13. Humility?Imitate Jesus and Socrates. The "Autobiography" brings the story of Franklin only up to 1757. There is no record of Revolutionary struggles. Later Franklin was the first American to represent his country among the nations of Europe. Today, Benjamin Franklin, to his own people, is one of the best known and best loved personalities in American history. Termed the greatest influence of his age, he was a living example of Aesop's fable of the sun and the north wind. A New Age, A New Philosopher In the golden age of Greek culture, Socrates and his illustrious pupils discussed "Man as the measure of all things" and accepted the truth that "knowledge is virtue." Out of the serenity of life in the shadow of the temple of Dionysus it was a satisfying philosophy. The hurry and hustle of modern life calls for new values and a new expression. Today is a day of work, energy, and action. Elbert Hubbard, American philosopher, was a businessman and a philosopher. His law of life was action. From the thoughts of Moses, Socrates, Pythagoras, Jesus, and Buddha he brought a wisdom that applies to the art of living today. "A Message to Garcia" contains such a message for everyday living. It happened during the war with Spain. Garcia was in the mountain fastnesses of Cuba and it was necessary to reach him immediately. Someone said, "There is a fellow named Rowan will find Garcia if anybody can." The letter from the president to Garcia was given to Rowan. He asked no questions, but he carried the message. "Civilization is one long, anxious search for just such individuals. Anything such a man asks shall be granted; his kind is so rare that no employer can afford to let him go. He is wanted in every office, ship, store, and factory. The world cries out for such; he is needed and needed badly?the man who can carry a message to Garcia." The wisdom of Elbert Hubbard with that of Franklin, Jefferson, Lincoln, and Whitman is an expression of the American ideal of self-reliance as the guide to health, wealth, and happiness. His creed: "To love one's friends, to bathe in life's sunshine, to preserve a right mental attitude?the perceptive attitude, the attitude of gratitude?and to do one's work?these make up an ideal life." "Little Journeys," a delightful series of essays about great men and women of all ages, is today a new companion among the best loved books of the ages to many readers. "Books are keys to wisdom's treasure, Books are gates to lands of pleasure, Books are paths that upward lead; Books are friends. Come, let us read." ?Emilie Poulsson. Guide to Preparation A. Suggested topics for Lesson Assignments. 1. The Life of Benjamin Franklin, American Statesman ? Philosopher. 2. Extracts from the wisdom of Franklin. 3. Reading: "The Whistle" ? Franklin. 4. Samuel Johnson?Humanist. 5. Elbert Hubbard ? A New Philosopher. Guide to Reading A. "An American Bible." Excerpts from the wisdom of the great American thinkers: Emerson, Franklin, Lincoln, Jefferson, Whitman. Collected by the genial thinker of this age, Elbert Hubbard. B. "Self Reliance" and "Compensation Essays," by Emerson. C. "The Book Nobody Knows," Bruce Barton. This simple discussion of the Book of Books is most readable and instructive. D. "Mothers and Children," Fisher. Every mother assuming the role of guiding children to live their lives in a new and complex civilization will find much sound wisdom and advice in the miscellaneous essays. E. "Long and Short Arrows," George H. Brimhall. A series of short essays with words of wisdom and comfort to all mankind, but with a definite significance to Latter-day Saints whose understanding of earth life is as of a school to prepare man for his estate in a life of immortality. F. "Adventures in Contentment," David Grayson. A series of informal essays bringing to readers a genial view of life in a world of complexity. Social Service (For Fourth Week in April) LESSON VI The Social Responsibility of the Home Text: Civic Sociology, Edward A. Ross, Chapter 7 The purposes of this lesson are: 1. To develop an understanding of important social responsibilities of the home. 2. To make better homes through wise parenthood. In the previous lesson the importance of the family as the basis of civilization was pointed out. The tendency of present-day life to undermine the home as a social unit was also pictured. The disintegration of the family because of the growing rate of divorce, the declining birth rate, and the insincere attitude of those launching upon matrimony is emphasized by the text. Because many of the obligations toward the home, formerly performed by both parents and children, have been passed on to other agencies, the home has lost much of its vital influence in molding the lives of the oncoming generation. But the relationship between the home and society is not less than it formerly was, but greater. Since civilization has brought people very close together, the home, as the center of life, is more closely related to the larger aspects of society than it has ever been. And the responsibility of parents to train their children to fill a wholesome place in society is greater than ever before. The object of this lesson is to point out, as stated in the general purposes, the obligation of parents to build a finer and more interesting home life, and to show how more efficient parenthood can be attained. This can be done in the following ways: 1. Through an understanding of the problems and possibilities of leisure time activities. 2. By providing proper spiritual and religious ideals of life. 3. By developing in children a sense of true civic responsibility. 1. Youth is the age for adventure, for "trying one's wings" in the attempt to satisfy inner and outer conflicts. The home should provide a satisfying background for helping youth to find a solution to this attempt. If a feeling of security, affection, adventure, achievement, and power is not provided at home, at school, or at play, there will be some who will break loose from family bonds and social restraints. But, the home can be of tremendous value in helping youth to find the satisfaction he is seeking by cultivating a wise choice of leisure time activities. Years ago, when men and women worked from daylight to dark, leisure meant rest from hard labor. However, with shortened hours of industrial labor and the elimination of many household tasks, the old idea of leisure as rest still persists. And rest too frequently degenerates into mere idling. Every town has its loafers lounging about corners and public buildings at the end of the day. Front porch idlers and back door gossipers are living announcements that nothing constructive occupies the mind. Recently, radios, movies, and automobiles are absorbing more time and attention than is either constructive or desirable. American children average one movie each week throughout the year. Parents should strive to offset this tendency and the habit of idleness by encouraging wholesome, creative activities in the home. Through some constructive form of self-expression, leisure automatically ceases to be idleness, and becomes a soul-building activity. When such activity has been encouraged by the parents, home becomes a more interesting place to be. It is vibrant with life and activity. And an invaluable relationship between parents and children may be established. Parents should find some outlet for each child's energy. Only through the happiness and contentment of each member of the family can the spirit of the home be realized to its fullest extent. All children have greater aptitudes along some lines than others. Fathers and mothers should observe the interests of all of their children and make it possible for each child to cultivate his own specialty. It is in the early years of life that these aptitudes are best captured and developed. Since the foundation for youth is inevitably 726 laid in childhood, an early start is likely to insure future interest. And the adolescent will be in a fair way to resist the gilded attractions of the age. If a child has talent in music, let him cultivate it. If he likes to carve or model, provide tools and materials, such as wood, soap, or clay. If he enjoys gardening, give him a garden spot. The expense incurred will be an investment that is rich in later returns. The range of hobbies is as wide as human nature is various. Making greeting-cards, letter writing, activities in some scientific pursuit, such as building radio broadcasting 'sets, scouting, and Beehive work, are just a few leisure-time pursuits. Sports develop body control and mental alertness. Animal and nature lore are intensely interesting. And the old game of collecting is as fascinating as ever. Sometimes, hobbies are valuable in determining one's future vocation or profession. Surely, there is no child that cannot be interested in some absorbing medium for self-expression. The question will not be "what shall I do?" but, "what shall I not do in order to find time to do the thing I like?" Most hobbies can find their inspiration, and can be centered in the home. Through their direction, the opportunity is given to parents, to mold character along the lines of most wholesome development. Entertainment of guests at home should be a family affair in which children, whenever possible, should be included. The evening meal should be pleasurable for the entire family group. Its social aspects can be cultivated by encouraging each member to participate in the conversation. Family picnics and outings are delightful. The greatest happiness in life RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE seems to be found when recreation supplements and grows out of regular work. Thoughtful direction by parents of children early in life will establish right attitudes towards the use of leisure. 2. Perhaps there is no phase of home-life more far reaching in its effects or more fundamental in molding. Character and developing spiritual attitudes, than the teaching of religion. As in leisure-time activities, these attitudes and emotional patterns, to be most effective, must be established in early life. The home is the best foundry ever known for such establishment. Basic concepts are absorbed from the family long before a child enters school. The most effective spiritual training is that which is received unconsciously. The influences of which the child partakes are determined by the atmosphere and spirit in which he lives and breathes. These are the forces which shape his destiny. Through unconscious imitation he copies the actions, emotions, thoughts, and acts of those nearest to him. Though additional years may bring advancement in thought, new ideas are interpreted in the light of the psychological attitudes that were formed during the plastic years of life. Too often, spiritual and religious training is interpreted to be regular habits of attendance at Sunday School, Primary, and other auxiliary meetings, and the study of gospel doctrine. Essential as these are, they are not sufficient to establish the deeply religious and spiritual attitudes that one needs to carry him through life. The foundation of life determines its future. When that foundation is inlaid with a spiritual design, it is almost impossible for any force to divorce spirituality from life. LESSON DEPARTMENT Religious attitudes, established in childhood, are more important than scriptural knowledge or specific beliefs. These can be gradually acquired over a life-long period of study. Habits of reverence, once formed, are likely to last through life. Religious teaching in the home is vital, and it must find its roots in daily experiences. The responsibility, thus resting upon parents in the home, is one that cannot be shifted to religious organizations or the day school. The father and mother, who are successful in cultivating true Spiritual values, in which there exists love of home, love of parents, brothers, and sisters; and where the sacredness of life and human rights is recognized; are performing the greatest service of all to their community, to their nation, and to God. 3. A third responsibility resting upon parents is the teaching of correct civic attitudes. Many parents have considered such training to be the obligation of the school. And so it is; but much of the teaching in the schools has been ineffective beCause it has not been followed by a consistent development of the knowledge in the home. It is a noticeable fact that the study of civics does not necessarily result in desirable social behavior. Too often, the reverse is true, and the reason is logically traced to the home environment. In school the emphasis is placed on the acquisition of facts. To make the knowledge of such facts effective, they should be incorporated into Civic attitudes. The home can do more towards such incorporation than any other institution. Correct civic attitudes are habits of mind, and are acquired as are all other habits. Example plays its part. Solving situations under the guidance and counsel of others until one can do so independently is very 727 helpful. Civic virtues are the outgrowth of daily experiences, and are unconsciously absorbed from earliest childhood. Attitudes of respect for law and order, and for constituted authority; ideals of service; compliance to the will of the majority; and respect for the property rights of others; are all by-products of home-life. It is a decided reflection on the home that the divorce rate is increasing, the birth rate is declining, and so much insincerity towards marriage exists. Undoubtedly, parents have fallen down in preparing their children for a happy and usefy life. Since all the attitudes mentioned above, are the outgrowth of daily home-life, the obligation of parents in maintaining a home where correct Principles of living are practiced is clearly indicated. No amount of good teaching in schools can overcome poor ideals established at home. Example is the greatest teacher in life. No parent can expect his child to acquire civic virtues unless he, himself, practices them. The social responsibilities of the home and the obligations of parents to build better homes, lie at the foundations of our existence. Upon the successful performance of these obligations depends the existence of the nation, the strength of the Church, and the lasting satisfaction of parenthood. Activities Show how delinquency can be accounted for through failure to follow some of the principles suggested in this lesson. Name examples of successful living which can be specifically traced to constructive home life. Let each member of the class name the creative leisure-time activities practiced and encouraged in her home. See note "Errata" on following page.  Errata Lesson III was printed by mistake in the October Magazine and headed Lesson V. It should have been in the August number. (And is to be given in the December Union Meeting.) Lesson IV will be found in the August number, Lesson V in September, Lesson VI in November, VII in December and VIII in January which will complete the course. HEALTH LESSONS 1935-36 HEALTH LESSONS 1935-1936 LESSON VII CARE OF THE TEETH way of adapting useful parts of our body to its general scheme of symmetry and beauty. As example we may note the female breast, which rounds out the thorax, and adds so much to the figure; the color of the iris in the eye; the shape and length of the eyebrow; and the color and shape and symmetry of the teeth. To have fine healthy teeth is therefore a matter of personal adornment as well as a matter of health and comfort. Nature has provided for us two distinct sets of teeth; one for our infantile and early juvenile years, known as the deciduous teeth, because they are to be cast off; and one for our later juvenile and adult years, known as the permanent set. The baby is born without any teeth, and usually erupts the first tooth at from five to seven months. From then on the teething period extends until the baby is about three years old when it will be found to have twenty teeth. Sometimes these baby teeth have difficulty in making their way through a tough mucous membrane of the gum, and considerable discomfort and fretfulness will result. Sometimes high fever develops as a result of this irritation. N 'wer of: has a remarkable The doctor or dentist can easily relieve this situation by the use of the lance. It is important that these baby teeth should have the same care that we bestow on the permanent set. They are not only useful for masticating the food, but they are the scaffolding for the permanent set that is to come later. The baby's food has an important bearing on the growth and development of its teeth. Calcium and phosphorus are the principal ingredients out of which the teeth are made. It so happens that milk is the food that supplies best these ingredients, and it should be a major item of the child's food until it is twelve or thirteen years of age. A little orange juice added to the diet gives vitamin D, which is shown to be important in the assimilation of the elements of milk. Teeth as everybody knows are prone to develop decaying cavities. When these are allowed to penetrate to the pulp, which contains very sensitive nerves, they produce toothache which causes much suffering. Infecting bacteria develop in these cavities, producing pus, and swollen cheeks. The poison absorbed from abscesses is a much more serlous matter with young: children than LESSON DEPARTMENT it is with adult people, because they are laying the foundation of their future constitution, and the tissues are very fragile. The cause of cavities in teeth is the bacteria that grow in particles of food which are allowed to remain in the mouth between feedings. Bacteria grow best at the temperature of the body, and in the presence of the moisture which the saliva supplies. It is important that the food remnants should be removed with the tooth brush, and the tooth powder or tooth paste should contain some harmless antiseptic such as borax or oil of wintergreen or tincture of myrrh. The child should be taught at an early age the use of the tooth brush. At first not much may be accomplished more than the habit, but habits are things that grow, and their usefulness will be manifest in the later years. Cavities in the baby teeth as in the adult teeth should be filled whenever they appear. To preserve those teeth until they have served their full purpose is very important. If they should need extracting too soon, the jaw bone will not develop in a perfect way. When the teeth come in crooked, and out of alignment, the dentist should straighten them. This applies more particularly to the permanent set. The six year permanent molars erupt immediately back of the baby teeth, and it is important to know this because if they are extracted they will never grow again. The last molars known as the wisdom teeth do not erupt until about the 18th or 20th year. Sometimes they fail to come through and may cause much suffering until the skilled dental surgeon extracts them. All that has been said of the baby teeth applies with equal force to the 729 permanent set. The use of the tooth brush should be as much a routine as washing the hands or face. The dentist should inspect the teeth at least twice a year, and any cavities should be promptly filled. If teeth have degenerated beyond redemption, they should be extracted and artificial bridges or plates substituted. The importance of having the proper grinders in our digestive apparatus is very great. Much of the indigestion that people suffer from is due to imperfect mastication of the food. The more perfect studies of bacteriology of late years have thrown a great deal of light on diseases like chronic rheumatism, neuritis, Brights' disease, etc. It is now known that many of these heretofore incurable chronic diseases are due to foci of infection, mostly in the teeth, tonsils or sinuses. The apex of a tooth which is deeply implanted in the jaw bone will get infected, and the poison that such a focus gives out will irritate tissues in distant parts of the body, causing arthritis, neuritis, chronic Brights' disease, etc. When such a relationship is found to exist the condition will often clear up immediately when the focus of infection is removed. The careful physician will order X-ray pictures of the teeth when he finds his patient suffering from some chronic trouble, the cause of which is unknown, and he will not infrequently bring peace and happiness to a patient who has suffered seriously and long from some painful debilitating condition, which seemed to resist all treatment. If these infections could be prevented by proper and prompt treatment of the teeth before they happen we all admit it would be a far better way of meeting distressing conditions which are altogether too common. Questions At what age does the baby get its full set of baby teeth? How many teeth in the full baby set? When do the first permanent molars appear and where are they located? What difficulties develop if these first molars are ignorantly removed? What food has the elements calRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE cium and phosphorus which are the main ingredients of the teeth in greatest abundance? What is the cause of the decayed cavities in the teeth? Why is it so important to brush the teeth, and remove the waste particles of food from the mouth? What causes toothache? Explain how infected teeth can cause arthritis, neuritis, etc.