[Vol21 | August 1934 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: From an Ogden Kitchen to Ritchie]

Her FROM AN OGDEN KITCHEN TO FIFTH AVENUE task is stupendous. She says, "I am proud of my women. Several of them have been working for me since my factory started. In a large measure they have helped me succeed. They are now expert seamstresses." That is another fine thing Mrs. Quinn has done; worked out her ideas to help more women to help themselves. To the question, "How do you account for such popularity of your house dresses?" She thought a moment then said, "I believe that first of all it is the fine quality and exquisite workmanship. Some of my women are real experts, then too, color combinations are absolutely essential. I study hard to get the right color effects. I always loved color. Colors that do not harmonize have an ugly and depressing effect on me. I want only the beautiful." So beauty seems to be a prevailing idea in all of her work. Nimble fingers coupled with competent MODERN OPERATING ROOM, 453 judgment has made the "Quinn House Dress and Apron" attract nation-wide attention and praise. Thus Mrs. Quinn transformed the kitchen apron into a thing of beauty. She put thought, color and life into an otherwise drab garment and made her idea sell by the thousands to particular women everywhere. MRS. QUINN has eighteen patents on her aprons giving her exclusiveness as well as protection. Her daughter, Katheleen has recently opened a new sales store on Fifth Avenue, New York, where she sells to all points in America. She no longer takes a few dresses to town in the back of her car to peddle, but she supervises at her factory in Ogden the careful pressing, packing and delivery of cartons to her home town stores and every big city in the United States. Of her early trips to Salt Lake City she says, "I had real stage fright 1933 

  when I first Started to sell. I went past the door of a big store four times before I dared to enter. The first manager I asked turned me down. The next one bought. Today, to these same managers she answers phone calls, letters, telegrams, etc., saying, "You will have to wait your turn. "Once more woman has won a fight that shows the dauntless courage of her forefathers. A fight that is instilled in her daughter, Katheleen, who when she was in the big Eastern market the only young girl among hundreds of expert buyers and sellers, dared to put her mother's kitchen aprons before the whole world as the best apron ever made. She sold to the best houses in New York. So from an Ogden Kitchen Apron Factory to the most exclusive shops on Fifth Avenue, New York City, goes the Katheleen Quinn House Dresses. The Ogden Kitchen Apron is sold in the largest syndicates and chain stores in the entire world. In only seven years time with only five dollars as a start a brave woman proved that she could win in face of seemingly unsurmountable obstacles. MRS. ADA QUINN, who is one of a family of eighteen children, was born in Peterson, Utah, sixteen miles from Ogden, the daughter of Joshua Williams and Hannah Martha Green, who crossed the plains in 1862 and 1863. She married Edward Nelson Quinn and lived in Washington, D.C. for several years and has since made her home in Ogden, Utah. She has three living children. Howard, Kathleen and Robert. Mrs. Quinn Says, "From my earlier childhood, neatness and love of the beautiful were instilled in me by my mother. She taught us all to sew a fine seam in early childhood. "So from her parent's teachings and her own experiences in operating successful business she passes this worthy quotation to all. "The world is the same today as ever. Any one with an idea can succeed if she will not be discouraged by obstacles placed in his path or listen to people who say 'it can't be done.' You are not defeated until you acknowledge it."