[Vol21 | August 1934 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson Department]

Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in October) Christ's COMING AND THE MILLENNIUM 1. Christ's Coming Foretold. The Scriptures abound with statements relative to the second coming of Christ.
More than 3,000 years ago the Psalmist sang: "Our God shall come, and shall not keep silence: a fire shall devour before him, and it shall be very tempestous round about him." (Psalms 50:3) Concerning the same matter Isaiah declared as follows: "The wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them; and the desert shall rejoice, and blossom as the rose. It shall blossom abundantly, and rejoice even with joy and singing: the glory of Lebanon shall be given unto it, and the excellency of Carmel and Sharon, they shall see the glory of the Lord, and the excellency of our God.
Strengthen ye the weak hands, and confirm the feeble knees. Say to them that are of a fearful heart, be strong, fear not: behold, your God will come with vengeance, even God with a recompense; he will come and save you.... And the ransomed of the Lord shall return, and come to Zion with songs and everlasting joy upon their heads: they shall obtain joy and gladness, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away." (Isaiah 35:1-10) It is evident that neither of these prophecies has reference to the first coming of Christ, since "devouring" and tempestousness did not attend him at that time; nor had the "ransomed of the Lord" returned to Zion.
Lack of available space prevents further reference to the almost numberless Biblical prophecies relating to the Master's second advent. 2. The word of modern Revelation is equally as emphatic concerning this transcendent event.
Here are the words of the Son of Man himself: "Lift up your voice as with the sound of a trump, both long and loud, and cry repentance unto a crooked and perverse generation, preparing the way of the Lord for his second coming. For behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, the time is soon at hand that I shall come in a cloud with power and great glory.... I come quickly. I am your Lord and your Redeemer.
Even so. Amen." (Doctrine and Covenants 34:6-12) Again: "Wherefore, be faithful, praying always, having your lamps trimmed and burning, and oil with you, that you may be ready at the coming of the Bridegroom?for behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, that I come quickly." (Doctrine and Covenants 33:17, 18) 3.
Signs of Christ's Coming. The precise time of Christ's coming no man knoweth, "neither the angels in heaven, nor shall they know until he comes." (Doctrine and Covenants 49:7) The world, however, is not without knowledge of the general time of his advent or of the signs that will immediately precede his arrival, as witness the following: "There shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars: and upon the earth distress of nations, with perplexity; the sea and LESSON DEPARTMENT the waves roaring; men's hearts failing them for fear, and for looking after those things which are coming on the earth: for the powers of heaven shall be shaken. And then shall they see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with pewer and great glory. And when these things begin to come to pass, then look up, and lift up your heads; for your redemption draweth nigh." (Luke 21:25-28).
Again the Master said to his Church on the Western Continent: "He that feareth me shall be looking forth for the great day of the Lord to come, even for the signs of the coming of the Son of Man. And they shall see signs and wonders, for they shall be shown forth in the heavens above, and in the earth beneath. And they shall behold blood, and fire, and vapors of smoke. And before the day of the Lord shall come, the sun shall be darkened, and the moon be turned into blood, and the stars fall from heaven. And the remnant shall be gathered into this place; and then they shall look for me, and, behold, I will come; and they shall see me in the clouds of heaven, clothed with power and great glory, with all the holy angels; and he that watches not for me shall be cut off." (Doctrine and Covenants 45:39-44) 4.
Regardless of the clarity of the Savior's word in this connection, there will be many unprepared for his coming.
Here is the Lord's own word: "At that day, when I shall come in my glory, shall the parable be fulfilled which I spake concerning the ten virgins. For they that are wise and have received the truth, and taken the Holy Spirit for their guide, and have not been deceived? verily I say unto you, they shall not be hewn down and cast into the fire, but shall abide the day. And the earth shall be given unto them for 491 theiy inheritance; and they shall multiply and wax strong, and their children shall grow up without sin unto salvation." (Doctrine and Covenants 45:56-58).
Surely the foregoing promises should be sufficient to inspire all Latter-day Saints to good works: those who disregard these promises may very properly be characterized as "foolish." 5.
Events at Christ's Coming.
Immediately prior to the coming of the Son of man, "All things shall be in commotion; and surely, men's hearts shall fail them; for fear shall come upon all people." Then, "Angels shall fly through the midst of heaven, crying with a loud voice, sounding the trump of God, saying: Prepare ye, prepare ye, O inhabitants of the earth; for the judgment of our God is come. Behold, and lo, the Bridegroom cometh; go ye out and meet him. And immediately there shall appear a great sign in heaven, and all people shall see it together."
Following this most impressive spectacle, 'There shall be silence in heaven for the space of half an hour; and immediately after shall the curtain of heaven be unfolded as a scroll is unfolded after it is rolled up, and the face of the Lord shall be unveiled; and the saints that are upon the earth, who are alive, shall be quickened and be caught up to meet him. And they who have slept in their graves shall.
Come forth, for their graves shall be opened; and they shall also be caught up to meet him in the midst of the pillar of heaven?They are Christ's the first fruits, they who shall descend with him first, and they who are on the earth and in their graves, who are first caught up to meet him; and all this by the voice of the sounding of the trump of the angel of God." (Doctrine and Covenants 88:92-98) Thus, when 492 the Master comes to earth?accompanied by "all the holy angels'"? the dead who have died in the Lord shall rise from their graves, and they, together with righteous people living on the earth, shall be caught up into the clouds of heaven to meet him.
Truly a most glorious spectacle. 6. The Unfaithful. It will be impossible for the wicked to remain upon the earth during Christ's millennial reign, doubtless because of their inadaptability to such an environment. Accordingly, the decree has gone forth that they shall be taken from the earth.
Here is the word of modern revelation: ?For the hour is nigh and the day soon at hand when the earth is ripe; and all the proud and they that do wickedly shall be as stubble; and I will burn them up, saith the Lord of Hosts, that wickedness shall not be upon the earth; for the hour is nigh, and that which was spoken by mine apostles must be fulfilled; for as they spoke so shall it come to pass; for I will reveal myself from heaven with power and great glory, with all the hosts thereof, and dwell in righteousness with men on earth a thousand years, and the wicked shall not stand." (Doctrine and Covenants 29:9-11) Doubtless all this will be brought about in conformity with Divine justice and the highest good of the individuals concerned. The spirits of the wicked must learn of the goodness of God through the things that they suffer, and when the thousand years are finished they will be brought forth in the second resurrection to be judged and rewarded according to their merits. "They shall be servants of the Most High; but where God and Christ dwell they cannot come." (Doctrine and Covenants 76:112) 
 . The Changed Earth. During the millennium the earth will be vastly different from what it is at present. The final regeneration, however, will not take place until the thousand years have passed. Concerning the condition of the earth during the millennium, the Lord has' said: "Prepare ye for the coming of the Bridegroom; go ye, go ye out to meet him. For behold, he shall stand upon the mount of Olivet, and upon the mighty ocean, even the great deep, and upon the islands of the sea, and upon the land of Zion. And he shall utter his voice out of Zion, and shall speak from Jerusalem, and his voice shall be heard among all people; and it shall be a voice as the voice of many waters, and the voice of a great thunder, which shall break down the mountains, and the valleys shall not be found. He shall command the great deep, and it shall be driven back into the north countries; and the islands shall become one land." (Doctrine and Covenants 113:1923) It is thus evident that much of the waste land of the earth will be redeemed, also that the islands and the continents will be gathered together in one place. It is interesting to observe that in past geological time the geography of the earth has undergone great change: The boundaries of both the land and the sea have repeatedly experienced readjustment; climates have ranged from warm to cold; mountains have come into existence, only later to disappear; and deserts have sprung up where formerly there was fertile lands. In a word, the whole face of the earth has undergone repeated change. Thus, if Deity has done this in the past?by virtue of his control over the laws of nature? surely no one can reasonably deny his ability to make desirable read'
LESSON DEPARTMENT justments in the future; both orderly and wide-spread. 8. Inhabitants of the Earth. Included among those who live upon the earth during the millennium will be both members and non-members of the Church. Satan, however, will be bound (Doctrine and Covenants 45:55), and conversion to the principles of righteousness will doubtless be much easier than at present. Those who still dwell in the flesh, and are quickened, will have the privilege of associating with those having passed through the resurrection. The Savior will be a familiar visitor among them. 9. Isaiah's Description. 'There shall be no more thence an infant of days, nor an old man that hath not filled his days: for the child shall die an hundred years old; but the sinner being an hundred years old shall be accursed. And they shall build houses, and inhabit them; and they shall plant vineyards, and eat the fruit of them. They shall not build, and another inhabit; they shall not plant, and another eat: for as the days of a tree are the days of my people, and mine elect shall long enjoy the work of their hands; they shall not labor in vain, nor bring forth for trouble for they are the seed of the blessed of the Lord. And their offspring with them. And it shall come to pass, that before they call, I will answer; and while they are yet speaking, I will hear. 493
The wolf and the lamb shall feed together, and the lion shall eat straw like the bullock: and dust shall be the serpent's meat.
They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my  holy mountain, saith the Lord." (Isaiah 65:20-25) 10. Temple Work. The Millennium will not be a period of idleness, but of intensive and intelligent activity. The Latter-day Saints believe that during the Millennial reign temple work will be emphasized and that it will be greatly facilitated because of the ease of heavenly communication which will exist at that time.
After the thousand years of peace, will come the second resurrection and the final judgment.
Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1.
Give your personal reasons for believing in the coming of Christ. 2. Why in your judgment has the Savior not revealed the precise time of his coming? 3.
Relate in detail the parable of the wise and the unwise virgins. 4, Why in your judgment will the wicked not be permitted to remain on the earth during the millennium? 5. Why would the earth in its present condition not be suitable for the millennial reign? 6. In what ways may the gathering of genealogy be made easier during the millennium?