[Vol21 | August 1934 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Young Keddington]
Shedding its light in darkness, turning it into day? Young Mothers By Holly Baxter Keddington IF you have a tot entering school for the first time, these suggestions may help you. A kindergarten teacher says that all a 5 to 6 year old needs to know when he enters school is: to cross street alone, wash face, hands, clean teeth, comb hair, put on wraps, mits, galoshes, take care of self at toilet and be able to associate with a group. When I asked about the use of crayons, scissors, etc., or knowing songs, rhymes and games she said that it was not necessary?that the child was better off learning with the group. THE problem of socializing a shy child is often a very discouraging task and the hardship is not all on the teacher. No one knows the torture an unsocial child suffers when he sees other children entering into games, songs and the like, and he is not one of them. To get along with the children of his own age is a splendid lesson to learn early.
Many children use the function of elimination as an excuse at school, but if mothers explained that public toilets (and school toilets are public) should be used only in emergencies, much of this trouble would be eliminated. If your child leaves the room more than the average, you should consider it a kindness if the teacher reports it to you. In such a case your child may have acquired a bad habit or he may need the attention of a physician. I believe every child should be informed of the danger of infection from contact with unclean objects.
Teach him to be scrupulously clean in his habits so that if others are careless he will be safe.
Hand washing is a splendid habit to encourage for a child so often puts his hands unconsciously to. His mouth and he does not know what undesirables they may harbor., My Compensation A song leaps up in a Mother's heart When a lad has chosen aright; Or when he brings a wee, rain-drenched bird Clutched under his sweater, tight. It leaps at the song a young daughter sings, A softly crooned lullaby, As she sits and rocks her play baby "Sleep baby, for mother is nigh." The heart fairly bursts with a glorious pride As a father praises a son, A tender pat on a worthy head; A smile for a task well done.
These songs in a mother's tender heart As the last child climbs the stair Make life such a happy heavenly thing Hallowed with thankful prayer. Holly B. Keddington Notes to the Field ELIZA R. SNOW MEMORIAL CONTEST ANNOUNCEMENT, 1934 THE General Board conducts the Eliza R. Snow Relief Society Memorial Poem Contest annually. Two prizes are awarded ? a first prize consisting of $20, and a second prize consisting of $10. The prize poems are published each year in the January issue of the Relief Society Magazine.
Other poems of merit not winning special awards, receive honorable mention. ~The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, and to pay for the published poems at the regular Magazine rates. The contest opens each year upon publication of the announcement in the August number of the Relief Society Magazine, and closes October 15.
Rules of the Contest 1.
This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women. 2.
Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem should not exceed fifty lines, and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done it should be legibly written. 4. The sheet on which the poem is written should be without signature or other identifying marks. 5.
Only one side of the paper should be used. ' 6.
Each poem must be accompanied by a stamped envelope, on which should be written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes should not be used. 7.
Statement should accompany the poem that it is entered in the contest. 8. The contestant guarantees the poem submitted to be her original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of an editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided. 9.
Members of the General Board, and persons connected with the Relief Society office force are not eligible to enter this contest. 10. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 11. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, and one from among the group of persons who are recognized as writers. 12. The poems must be submitted not later than October 15. 13. All entries should be addressed to Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest Committee, 28
Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. MAGAZINE CAMPAIGN OFFICERS, remember that our Magazine Drive will be from September 15th to October 15th. You should now be making your plans and preparations so that the Drive will be carried through in a business-like and effective way. WOMEN who value the Magazine and have salesmanship ability should be appointed as agents.
