[Vol21 | August 1934 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature]

Literature (Third Week in October) LIFE AND LITERATURE The Novel A HUMAN DOCUMENT "The truth of humanity goes on forever, interchangeable and inexhaustible in the variety of its disclosures."?Conrad. LIFE is Man's great adventure. To understand the facts of: Life has been Man's supreme task through the ages.
Through experience Man has learned the truths of human life.
Zest for life recorded as "Once upon a time' preserved for the ages the epic experiences of races and heroes?The Siege of Troy; Ulysses, the Greek; Sigurd, the Volsung; The Rhine Gold; The Love of Tristram and Iseult; Joseph, the Hebrew; The Quest of the Holy Grail.
Looking at Life, Man saw a definite pattern. Man, the artist, using the pattren and materials of Life created new combinations, experiences to illustrate the truths he had learned.
This newest chapter in Man's Book of Literature is named "Fiction."
Here the truths of Life are recorded through a series of imaginary facts.
Scenes familiar and scenes strange are there recorded.
There also is portrayed a gallery of human characters whose lives reveal the great passions that sway the heart of man?hate and despair and jealousy, love and truth and beauty, the problems of life and destiny?King Arthur, Sancho Panza, Falstaff, Hamlet, Faust. Pippa, Leatherstocking, Becky Sharp, Jean Val Jean, David Copperfield, Anna Karenina, Tom Sawver, Uncle Remus.
Experiences real and imaginary LESSON DEPARTMENT have always been a source of pleasure and inspiration to Man.
Imagination is the magic key that will unlock the great human record, Fiction, for Man's delight and inspiration: perchance?'To arrest Man, and compel him to gaze entranced ?a moment of vision, a sigh, a smile." How great then is the power of fiction. The Novel a Human Document HE novel is today's most prosperous literary form. The lifestory of the novel records humble beginnings, a youth of isolation and condemnation, the slow admittance to literary circles formerly denied, the rise to financial supremacy in the literary world of today.
Storytelling is as old as the mind of man. The simple experiences of life took on heroic aspects when related to a sympathetic audience. The Greeks looked upon prose as useful only for everyday expression. The tale early took the form of the ballad (a short narrative poem adapted for reciting or singing) and the chanson des geste (shonson du zhest, songs of great deeds.) Medieval literature records few prose narratives. Bocaccio's (bok ka cho) "Decameron" did much to make the prose narrative popular. It was not until the eighteenth century that the way was opened for the modern novel. The English novel of the eighteenth century was a logical successor of Chaucer's "Canterbury Tales," stories of real people of the day against the contemporary background of the fourteenth century. And Malory's "Le Morte D'Arthur," tales of the legendary hero, King Arthur. "Robinson Crusoe," by Daniel Defoe (1719), the first great adventure story in English, gave tofiction the qualities of vividness, exactness of detail, and faithfulness to 495 real experience. Samuel Richardson has been called the first great English novelist.
Being a moralist, the principal aim of his novels was to inculcate virtue. ?Pamela'' (1740) is the story of a virtuous young servant girl told through her letters.
This work gave to the novel development a definite plot pattern and the element of sentimentality. Henry Fielding wrote "Tom Jones" in 1749, using a new pattern in the realistic record of the adventures of a hearty, vigorous, self-willed youth.
Thus with definite characteristics and enduring qualities the English novel was sent on its way to attain great heights. The fiction of the nineteenth century was early marked by the romantic spirit.
Romance reveals life, yet takes license with the facts to create a rosy-hued picture. As a revolt against classicism and formalism, the romantic spirit was in reality individualism or humanitarianism. Scott, the great romancer of "Waverly" fame created a great literary pattern through his historical romances. His worthiest followers through the century were Hugo, Dumas, Cooper, Stevenson, and Kipling. As men are all romancers, at heart yearning for realization this phase of fiction must endure.
Realism is the greatest mode of expression developed by fiction.
Realism has been termed a faultless mirror held up to a living world, rejecting nothing, altering nothing. The selection of materials becomes then the constructive or destructive element of this mode. The early realists, Dickens, Thackeray, Eliot. Meredith, Hardy.
Were also great humanists selecting materials with intellectual and spiritual integrity.
Each in turn portrayed the phase of human experience that stirred 496 him most; Dickens, the sufferings of humanity: Thackeray, the social follies of man; Eliot, the development of character: Meredith, the spiritual truths of life; Hardy, the power of destiny.
Contemporary fiction pays tribute to the great modern realists; Wells, the Utopian socialist and scientist; Arnold Bennett, the portrayer of man "his own star" with self-control as his greatest source of power; Galsworthy, the disciple of -social justice; Conrad, through studies of men of many climes probes into the pressure of environment upon human behaviour: the Russian novelists, Tolstoy and Dostoevsky, explorers of the mind and soul of man. It is the stern veracity of the realism of a great novel that makes it a work of art.
Fiction is the literary master of today.
There is no doubt but that it will continue so to reign. It is the form most reflective of the complexity of modern life. Today's battle of books is responsible for some strange happenings.
Today authors write to sell. Best-sellers may or may not have literary qualities; popularity is no indication of immortality.
Much contemporary romance has become submerged in sentimentality. The pathos of romance is that it has become the literary vehicle to meet the human hunger for happy endings. The romantic tradition in all its beauty and truth is being followed by a few great writers today.
Realism has passed from naturalism to barbarism through the unworthy selection of materials. The new experimental novel shows clearly two great influences, the influence of Russian fiction and the influence-of modern science. The morbid tendency of Russian novelists to soul consciousness coupled with the influence of psychology to become explanatory have directed RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE modern fiction to deal in explanations. The experimental novel upto-date deals chiefly with the problems of the subconscious and the sex life of man. A characteristic of the novel of today is the fact that it has come closer to life, in that it portrays but a section of life, life goes on after the novel closes.
Fiction has become a great educational force in the modern world. It is a creative art in that it creates something in its audience. Its universal appeal lies in the fact that it is "a criticism of life." Its great responsibility is that it should make one dream nobly, giving intelligible shape to the best of human desires.
Great fiction cries to humanity. "Why doest thou wonder O Man, at the height of the stars or the depth of the sea.
Enter into thine own soul and wonder there." George Eliot, Novelist INTO the challenging newness of Victorian thought came a master mind, George Eliot. It was the world of Thomas Carlyle, historian and essayist, Herbert Spencer, philosopher and scientist, and George Lewes, psychologist and journalist. As assistant editor of the Westminister Review in 1851, Mary Ann Evans earned their approbation by her intellectualism and philosophical attainments.
When her first novel. "Scenes of Clerical Life" was published under the unknown name. George Eliot, they said a genius, the genius of a man.
Life had prepared Mary Ann Evans with rich experiences to become the novelist George Eliot. The educational advantages of her youth with private tutors and in private schools provided an excellent preparation. The crisis in her spiritual life became a bitter reality when her liberality of thought came in LESSON DEPARTMENT conflict with the stern Calvinism of her beloved father.
Then came the dramatic struggle of a romantic heart and a classical) mind. Her friends lovingly called her "Clematis,' a tender vine which must have a shrub against which to rest its grace. George Lewes, a brilliant journalist with a magnetic personality, became the strength to the vine. He it was who discovered George Eliot's genius and encouraged her to write a novel. Mary Ann Evans, a frail, sensitive creature from her own experiences, knew the weakness of the flesh and the triumphs of the spirit. Thus George Eliot, the novelist, occupied with the moral issues of life became a great interpreter of life?its hopes and despairs, its yearnings and disappointments, its triumphs and defeats, its joys and sorrows, its strength and its weakness. The rural novels, "Adam Bede,"' "The Mill on the Floss," and "Silas Marner" are the best of George Eliot's prose works. As a poet her strength and power is best represented in "The Choir Invisible." "George Eliot and Real Women" GEORGE ELIOT as a novelist of human souls and especially of the souls of women is the subject of an understanding essay by Henry Van Dyke in the volume "Companionable Books.'' Dickens did not accept the genius of George Eliot as that of a masculine mind when the authorship of "Scenes from Clerical Life' was questioned. He noted in the work the sympathy and insight of a woman's mind. It is a woman who stands out in most of the novels of George Eliot. In her gallery of women as wife, sweetheart, daughter, or sister we see the mystery and power of love upon a 497 woman's inner life of thought and emotion. In "Adam Bede," one of the saddest stories in literature is Dinah Morris, the Methodist preacher whose heauty of face and inner life are one; Hetty Sorrel, the sweetheart "made of roses" but "no better nor a cherry wi' a hard stone inside it'; Mrs. Poyser, the humorous motherly wife of the old farmer. The story is simple, a strong man loves the pretty face of an adventurer's sweetheart.
Tragedy stalks in betrayal. To the beautiful Dinah comes the task of bringing the erring Hetty to repentance. "The Mill on the Floss" is an autobiographical novel. Its portrayal of the devotion of Maggie Tulliver for her father and brother, and her own erring love for the trivial Stephen Guest ends in the triumph of sisterly love. Dorthea Brooke in "Middlemarch," a story of middle-class lives in a country town, has been characterized as "a perfect woman, nobly planned."
Romola in the great religious novel of the same name was in reality Maggie Tulliver again. Eppie, the goldenhaired girl who saved Silas Marner, the miser, is considered the brightest star in the gallery. The women of George Eliot are created with extraordinary skill, but it is upon the spiritual portraits of women who sacrificed for others that she bestowed her most loving care. Silas Marner; The Weaver of Raveloe "Silas Marner' is a beautiful idyll of country life in England about the year 1820. The author conceived it as a kind of legendary tale. It is in reality a poem in which Providence plays an important role. The theme of the novel has been expressed thus: "A hungering life, at first balked by adverse circum498 stances, wasting itself on something unworthy, often from pure ignorance as to where anything nobler is to be found?but after struggling, finally finding better and larger life and love. George Eliot intended to portray "the remedial influences of pure, natural human relations."
Upon the title page of the novel the lines from Wordsworth are placed: "A child more than all other gifts That earth can offer to declining man, Brings hope with it, and forward looking thoughts." Silas Marner was a handloom weaver of Raveloe, a village in Warwickshire.
Fifteen years before the story opens he had been a respected and earnest member of a dissenting church society which met in Lantern Yard, a northern manufacturing town.
From his mother he had gained a little store of wisdom about the medicinal properties of some common herbs. A close friendship existed between Silas and another church member, William Dane. For many months Silas had been contemplating marriage with a devout young woman of the same congregation, at such time as their meager mutual savings should be adequate.
Then came the theft of the church money.
Silas was unjustly accused. It was decided to try the case by the casting of lots according to the custom.
Silas was found guilty and cast off by the church members and by the woman he loved, who later married Dane, the guilty rival.
Silas left Lantern Yard with his faith in God and man completely shattered, to settle later in Raveloe. In Raveloe Silas lived a solitary life.
Working day in and day out at his loom he slowly amassed a store of gold coins. For fifteen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE years he had been growing less human and more miserly. The villagers meant very little to him. His only pleasure was counting over the gold which he kept in a hole underneath the floor near his loom.
Then came the night when returning from the delivery of some linen he found the gold gone. In desperation he rushed to the Rainbow Inn and told the villagers gathered there of his loss. The facts of the robbery were not known till long after. The good-for-nothing younger son of the village squire, Dunstan Cass, was the thief. | Squire Cass was the greatest man in Raveloe.
After the death of his wife, driven by loneliness he chose to preside in the parlor of the village tavern, the Rainbow Inn. His two sons, Godfrey and Dunstan grew up in loneliness and idleness. To the villagers Godfrey Cass was once a wholesome young man, fit candidate for the hand of Nancy Lammeter, a desirable mistress for Cass House. Of late Godfrey had been slipping.
Dunstan was known throughout the shire for the sowing of wild oats.
Godfrey had recently married a barmaid in a nearby town. Dunstan, knowing his brother's secret, made Godfrey pay heavily for his silence.
Dunstan in need of money for gambling debts took Godfrey's horse Wildfire to sell. On the journey Wildfire was killed, and Dunstant in desperation stole Silas' gold and disappeared. Godfrey's wife after long neglect was making her way to Raveloe to announce her marriage to Squire Cass, when near the cottage of Silas the woman overcome by cold fell in the snow and died. The little child, Eppie, crawled from her arms into the weaver's cottage: "Silas seated himself on his fireside chair, and wag stooping to push his logs together, when, to his blurred vision, it LESSON DEPARTMENT seemed as if there were gold in the floor in front of the hearth. Gold!?his own gold, brought back to him as mysteriously as it had been taken away! He felt his heart begin to beat violently, and for a few moments he was unable to stretch out his hands and grasp the restored treasure. He leaned forward at last, and stretched forth his hand; but instead of the hard coin with the familiar resisting outline, his fingers encountered soft warm curls. In utter amazement, Silas fell on his knees and bent his head low to examine the marvel; it was a sleeping child around, fair thing, with soft yellow rings all over its head." The child touched his heart, and with the help of a good woman, Dolly Winthrop, he brought her up, calling her "Eppie."
Slowly the people of Raveloe became kinder to Silas, helping greatly in his restoration to normal life. His spirit "began to feel the freshness of the world." The little ''golden head" made Silas forget the loss of his money.
Sixteen years passed. The draining of the stone pits near Marner's cottage reveals Dunstan's body and the stolen gold. Godfrey Cass had married Nancy Lammeter after the body of Eppie's mother was found in the snow. At last Godfrey was constrained to reveal Eppie's identity. Nancy, upon hearing Godfrey's story, regrets that Eppie had not been adopted by them sooner since they have no children.
Presenting their case to Silas, Nancy and Godfrey offered to adopt Eppie.
Silas allowed them to speak to Eppie.
Holding firmly the hand of Silas, Eppie made her choice, "because he took care of me and loved me from the first."
Before the marriage of Eppie and Aaron Winthrop, Silas and Eppie visit Lantern Yard. The old place had gone, no trace was 499 left?the eternal process of redemption was complete. In the words of the author: "In old days there were angels who came and took men by the hand and led them away from the city of destruction. We see no white-winged angels now. But yet men are led away from threatening destruction; a hand is put into theirs, which leads them forth gently toward a calm and bright land, so that they look no more backward; and the hand may be a little child's." The character of Silas Marner, the weaver of Raveloe has been given a place in the gallery of the great characters of fiction. The novel, "Silas Marner," is now accepted as a classic; its appeal is universal.
Many novelists have surpassed George Eliot as an artist, but in aspiration and vision she is surpassed by only the greatest of literary masters.
Suggestions for Study A. Materials: 1. "The Story of the World's Literature,? Macy, Chapters 32, 35.  2. "Silas Marner," George Eliot. B. Program: 1. Reading: a. "The Choir Invisible." 2. Discussion: a. The Novel a Human Document. 3. Review: a. George Eliot, Novelist. B. Silas Marner. C. Objective: This lessons is planned to give an understanding of the art of fiction because of its significant place in the literature of today. ~