[Vol42 | August 1955 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: An | Author: Taylor]
[An Invisible Means of Support Caroline E. Miner bbb Look to the Mountains Blariche Johnson bbU Trouble Lucille R. Taylor]

Wired, plumbed, carpeted, and heated in the modern manner, the spaciousness and beauty of another century are made available here. Its sole architect, builder, and craftsman, and its first owner was the pioneer Bishop John Watkins, who, before his emigration from England, was a prosperous and well-known architect. The house, of beautiful proportion and balance, is built in the English style and set back in the lot for privacy. The grace of eighty-six years is in this beautifully preserved dwelling, and on its lovely next owner, Mrs. Coleman, widow of Bishop Henry T. Coleman, of Midway, Utah. Lethe Coleman Tatge, present owner, is the daughter of these pioneer Colemans. "We will call her, our first daughter, 'Lethe,' after the river of forgetfulness," announced her father. "In her we shall forget our sorrows, our mistakes, and our regrets, and have a new life as those were reputed to have done who entered the legendary river of long ago." Every inch of the stately red and white exterior of this home is paint-sealed against the elements—the hand-pressed bricks, the stout granite cornerstones (to preserve the contours), the lacy wood cornices, hand-carved in the manner of a Swiss chalet. The Page 510 A HOME WHERE PAST AND PRESENT MEET 511 house stands in a setting of spacious, raised and sunken green lawns, shaded by immense spruce and fir trees. All through the dwelling the old and the new blend into a rare livability — new type springs and mattresses modernize the flawless antique, burled walnut and "butterfly" iron beds. Indicating the cozy parlor, Mrs. Coleman said, "One of the charms of an old house is the private parlor. We have driven our young lovers into the streets because they have no place at home to court." Plying her needle to a crazy-patch cushion, Mrs. Coleman continued, "And you don't have to throw old things away to have a charming home. The children in our day were not destructive. 'They lived and enjoyed a place, but never wantonly destroyed." Consequently, the interior of this place is enhanced with its original, hand-carved woodwork and handmade chairs (copies of some owned by Brigham Young), with priceless, old wedding presents of colored glass—purple, cranberry, emerald, blue. Unbelievably intricate hand-sewed quilts, put to constant use, grace the beds over harmonizing dust ruffles. And tales, fascinating' tales, are woven around all, shimmering tales of pathos, love, courage, conquest, and everyday living. On the threshold joining the parlor and the modernized dining room and kitchen, stands Lethe, with her heritage of the old and the new. At the wide front door, happily at home in the lovely atmosphere, two young boys ring the bell. "Is Lethe in? Tell her that her Sunday School class " Their faces are alight with an unconscious trust and love. Leland Van Wagoner A VIEW OF THE PARLOR IN THE COLEMAN HOME Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, August 1, and August 15, 1895 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" THE FAMILY KINGDOM: Contemplate as one may the results of a training from childhood to old age of one who never heard with father and mother, one word of discord, who never saw the least variance or disagreement; but whose every act and word proclaimed unmistakably that love's strong bond was never weakened, but strengthened by the trials, sufferings, and adversities of life. What a lesson of example it would be for the rising generation to follow, and of whom it might justly be required that honor be given to father and mother, as unto God. —S. W. Richards RELIEF SOCIETY IN BUNKERSVILLE, NEVADA: We have a Relief Society organized here and in good running order. We have our monthly testimony meetings in which our much loved little paper is read with pleasure.... Sister Mary Bunker and myself take the Exponent together, and we feel as though we could not do without it. —Harriet M. Earl Beautiful Hands Such beautiful, beautiful hands! They're neither white nor small, And you, I know, would scarcely think That they are fair at all. Though heart were weary and sad, Those patient hands kept toiling on That the children might be glad. But oh! Beyond this shadowland, Where all is bright and fair, I know full well these dear old hands Will palms of victory bear!... —Selected LETTER FROM FAR OFF MEXICO: I feel more settled and contented than I have for many years. I love the creations of our God in their wild grand beauty, and this is as lovely a place for an inland town as I ever have seen. The valley is almost a perfect circle set in a frame of evergreen trees.... This certainly is one of the choice places the Lord has held in reserve for some wise purpose... It seems to me from the works of nature, and the spirit of the Almighty that I feel here... That the powers of Satan will get no stronghold —S. E. Russell COOKING IN AN ELECTRIC OVEN: A well-known writer on the chemistry of cookery has given it as his opinion that the perfect arrangement for an oven would be the radiation of its heat from all sides. 'This is now done in an electric oven which is having a large sale in London.