[Vol42 | August 1955 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Fiction | Title: Whole-Wheat | Author: Nellis]
[Whole-Wheat Bread Jessie Nellis]

'The process is said to produce a cooked meat absolutely wholesome and extremely appetizing. The heat is turned on at any part merely by the movement of a switch. _ The comparative coolness of the outside of the oven is a singular feature; as the chef remarked at a recent dinner: "You could sit down on the oven while you roast inside." —Boston Traveller Page 512 ONNA TURNER SMITH, a highly trained young pianist, wife, mother, and an active Latterday Saint, was recently piano soloist with the San Francisco Symphony Orchestra. Playing Grieg's "Concerto in A Minor," she won enthusiastic reviews from leading San Francisco critics. A native of Los Angeles, Donna gave her first recital at eight years of age and has continued to win awards and scholarships. Her husband, Morris M. Smith, also an active Latter-day Saint, is a graduate of Annapolis Naval Academy. UCILE PETRY LEONE is the only woman in the United States who holds the rank of Admiral. She is Chief of Nurses in the United States Public Health Service. Since 1949 she has been a supervisor of nursing in sixteen public health service hospitals. IRIKIT (meaning "Famed for Beauty"), twenty-three-year-old Queen of Thailand, bore, last April in Bangkok, her third child—the second daughter. Her husband, King Phumiphon ("Strength of the Earth") Adundet, was born in Massachusetts, U. S. A, Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon EBECCA FRANKLIN (Mrs. Ward Morehouse), free-lance writer, is the author of "A Mighty People in the Rocky Mountains," an article appearing in the New York Times Magazine Section, April 3, 1955, and re-printed in the Church Section of the Deseret News, April 23. It is dignified, exceptionally well written and well organized. NNA PERROTT ROSE is the author of The Gentle House, a tender, sympathetic, humorous story of the rearing of a displaced, warbuffeted Latvian boy in America. IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to: Mrs. Mary E. S. Calkins, Sheridan, Wyoming, ninety-eight; Mrs. Mary E. Hendry, Salt Lake City, ninety-eight; Mrs. Georgienne M. Walters, Big Lake, Minnesota, ninety-four; Mrs. Rozella Stringham Grant, Glendale, California, ninety-three; Mrs. Minnie P. Brown, Coalville, Utah, ninety; Mrs. Alice Jones, Salt Lake City, ninety; Mrs. Mary Ellen Bell Jensen, Salt Lake City, ninety; Mrs. Ida May Lowry Allen, Salt Lake City, ninety; Mrs. Mary Krogue Madsen, Preston, Idaho, ninety. Page 513 C—D EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 


 Samil. Y Patterns HEN riding in an airplane, the earth patches of different colors, each one denoting a particular situation and condition, become merged into a composite pattern. Viewed from such a_ perspective, small, individual plots of land become a part of a picture which may be classified generally as fertile or barren, wooded or desert, thickly settled or sparsely populated. So it is with families. The individual characteristics and_ differences become merged to form a definite family pattern. Each couple entering into wedlock begins a family pattern of their own. Hour by hour, day by day, and year by year it is formed, made by their individual thoughts, hopes, and_ beliefs transmuted into family behavior, standards, and actions. Families come to be noted either favorably or unfavorably for their attitudes, convictions, and practices, and a certain response may be expected when a family pattern is known. A young girl comes to her marriage formed by her girlhood family pattern; the young man has been formed by his, and the two are now to begin one of their own. One advantage of a reasonably long period of courtship is that it affords time for the discovery of the other's traits, disposition, beliefs, and habits. There is an opportunity for Page 514 discussion and planning as to the pattern the young couple wish to develop in their own family-to-be. A family prayer may hallow the conclusion of the very first day of their marriage, as they unite in thanksgiving and humble supplication that their family pattern will fulfill the requirements for eternal joy and felicity. In the days and months ahead, continuing, daily, family prayers help clear away misunderstandings and problems as they arise, and tend to melt animosities and hurt feelings. Under such conditions the pat tern which emerges probably is marked by faithfulness in the payment of tithes and offerings to the Lord, in performing temple work— a pattern designed to encourage cheerfulness, thriftiness, and consideration and love. The living power of parental example is calculated to hold the children safe within the borders of the pattern. If parents refrain from criticising and passing judgment on others, while at the same time sharply defning the proper conduct for their own children, an attitude of charitableness toward fellow man is established. As the shadows of life lengthen, one becomes increasingly aware of the great and lasting values of life. They tower in the family pattern far above unessential attributes, and, EDITORIAL as the new family grows, grandparents and great-grandparents have a "grand" part to perform in helping to strengthen the families being established by their sons and daughters. Relieved of providing for the physical and material wants of their grandchildren, they have the leisure 515 and desire to hedge around the young with painstaking teachings of spirituality. 'Thus the family pat: terns of two and three generations are merged into a greater and deeper one designed to fit into the everlasting celestial family pattern. —M. C. 5. Admission to the Dedicatory Services of the Semple in Berne. Switzerland The limited space available at the Temple in Berne, Switzerland, and the necessity of making provision for the attendance of our missionaries and saints in the various European missions have required that admission to the dedicatory services be restricted only to those who bear non-transferable cards issued by the European Mission presidents. In order to obtain one of these cards, it will be necessary for each visitor from wards and stakes who desires to attend a dedicatory service to present a recommend from his or her bishop, endorsed by the stake president. If the visitor is from a mission outside Europe, he must present a recommend signed by the president of his branch, endorsed by the president of the mission. THE FIRST PRESIDENCY July 8, 1955 ~>- Repentance Jean Mattinson Give me thy peace by waters still Known only by thy precious will. With broken heart, and soul contrite, I pray thee, be my guiding light. Do You Serve Five-Star Mleals to Your Family? Rhea H. Gardner Extension Service Home Management and Furnishings Specialist Utah State Agricultural College ByYE* military man recognizes the superior status of a five-star general. The fact that he is one, eliminates all need for questioning his right to the highest regard that can be given a member of the military forces. If there is questioning of and lack of respect and appreciation for the meals you serve your family, it could be that they are not all "Five Star' in rank. Add interest to the game of meal planning by scoring the meals you serve over a period of a week or so. If very many of them score less than five stars, resolve to elevate them in rank at once. It needn't add to the cost in either time or money. It will return to you rich dividends of satisfaction in knowing that you are serving meals that are packed with appetite appeal as well as health-promoting nutrients. Five-Star meals are scored as follows: Contrast in flavor 2..---seeeeeeeeeeeeee-20 points Contrast in texture 2-.----eseeeceeeeeeee-20 points Contrast in COlOr 22.-220.--0eeeeeeeee20 points Contrast in temperature -.-.-----20 points Contrast in concentration -.-20 points ¥ To help you get started in playing this game of preparing five-star meals, so you will always be a winner, here are some of the secrets: Fresh, tart fruits, tangy sauces, herbs, flavorful meats and vegetables are pleasing flavor contrast with bland foods such as bread, cereals, rice, potatoes, and macaroni. Crisp toast, bacon, raw fruits and vegetables, and other "'chewy'" foods are pleasing texture contrast with soft foods. Deeply colored fruits and vegetables, garnishes and, for special occasions, an unusual flavor provide color contrast when served with less colorful foods such as potatoes and gravy, cauliflower, lima beans, etc. One hot dish, even in midsummer, adds to the appetite appeal of an otherwise cold meal. The same is true of a chilled dish along with many hot dishes in midwinter. A fruit or tossed vegetable salad is low in food concentration. Serve as an accompaniment some protein food. This may be in the form of an open-face meat, fish, or cheese sandwich, strips of cheese, slices of cold meat, or a rich protein casserole dish. Five-Star MENus Breakfasts 1. Sliced oranges, whole-wheat toast, poached egg, and milk. Berries on ready-to-eat cereal, whole-wheat toast, eggs in the shell, and milk. Tomato juice, whole-wheat muffins, omelet, and milk. Canned plums or berries, oatmeal, cream, whole-wheat toast, and milk, Baked apple, poached egg on toast, and milk.. Stewed prunes, bacon, waffle with jelly or honey, and milk. Page 516 ayibw DO YOU SERVE FIVE-STAR MEALS TO YOUR FAMILY? 517 Luncheons 1. Cold turkey or chicken sandwiches, molded cranberry salad, celery, baked apple, and milk. 2. Creamed chopped beef, baked potato, vegetable strips, canned fruit, cookie, and milk. 3. Vegetable beef soup, bread sticks, cabbage slaw, and cookie, milk. 4. Split pea soup, carrot and raisin salad, bread and butter, apple sauce cake, and milk. 5. Toasted cheese sandwich, celery and carrot sticks, apple dumpling and cream, milk. 6. Vegetable soup, crackers, cottage cheese-pear salad, gingerbread, and milk. Dinners 1. Stuffed peppers (meats, rice, tomato), baked squash, raw vegetable salad with French dressing, hot roll, apple Betty, and milk. Swiss steak, mashed potatoes, beets, green salad, whole-wheat bread, ice cream.. Stuffed pork chops, baked potatoes, parsley-buttered carrots, cabbage-pineapple salad, sponge cake, lemon sauce. Tuna noodle casserole, frozen peas, tomato aspic salad, bread, milk, apricot upside-down cake. Liver and onions, creamed potatoes, pickled beets and celery sticks, bread, milk, canned fruit, and cookie.. -~>- Down Summer Lanes Gertrude T. Kovan In memory my feet retrace, Old paths forgotten on the way Where heavy-laden trees embrace The fertile land—this summer day, 9 wok ow I hearken to a rustling breeze. Between tall stalks of ripened wheat, Finding new happiness in these, Which make my summer days complete. Down summer lanes my feet restore Spring's promises from winter rain, Knowing this shall remain no more When autumn has returned again, ~>- Light Bulbs Elsie Scott I pressed the electric light switch, but no light came. On investigation, I found one minute wire in the light bulb was broken. Until the wire had broken, the bulb had given forth bright light—lighting a whole room, and even people outside could see the light and, perhaps, be guided by it. Are not our lives like that? If we are obedient to all the principles of the gospel, our light shines in our homes, in our Church communities, and even the people outside see our light and may be led to inquire into the source of it. But just one of the commandments, one small wire broken, and the light that should be within us, fails to shine, and those whom we could guide are lost. Let us then handle our "light bulbs" with care, that they may be kept intact, and our light so shine that those who watch us (and others do watch whether we are aware or not) may have the desire to walk with us after the pattern of the Savior. The Last Clearing Florence B. Dunford remember the time we were [ tapped by the big fire. Uncle Stanley, the father of Theodore, and Homer, had come over from their ranch a couple of miles away, to help Father build the extra room. Mother, who was expecting a baby, had been worrying for fear the baby would lisp like Jinny, who was seven, and Father was afraid it might have red hair like Jinny's, which he didn't care about. So, to take both their minds off their worries, Father had decided to build this extra room. Uncle Stanley and Theodore were helping Father cut the trees to make the logs to make the extra room to make Mother happy. And, as usual, Uncle Stanley also had brought Homer along. It was about three-thirty on a Wednesday afternoon in mid-July. Everything was hot and dry. Father, who always had several schemes going at once, had the idea of clearing out some of the old brush and burning it, as they hewed the trees. It was Uncle Stanley who had the notion to start at the farthest distance from the house and_ then work toward it. They called the spots where they worked, "the first clearing," and "the second clearing," etc. The one they were currently working on was always "the last clearing." By now we could see "the last clearing". From the house. It was just down the slope. Once in awhile we would catch sight of Theodore as he sawed or chopped with the axe. Page 518 Jinny and I were keeping watch over Homer—I was ten that summer—when, suddenly, 'Theodore appeared. "We need Nig," he said. Nig was his spotted pony. To my knowledge no one ever rode Nig but Theodore, except once. That was the time when Homer had fallen from the stump and sprained his ankle. We had been caught there beside the river and night had been falling. Finally Jinny had tricked the pony into thinking it was Theodore on his back. And in that way we had brought Homer and ourselves home. "Please let us go back with you," we begged now. Just to walk beside Theodore was Jinny's and my idea of heaven. Theodore eyed us. 'Theodore was about fourteen. He had thick fair hair, very straight, and blue eyes. He wore high top boots and strode. "What about him?" He meant his brother, Homer, of course. When Uncle Stanley came to help Father, he had to bring Homer. The moment he arrived he handed Homer over to Father. Father gave him to Mother. Mother passed him on to me. The truth was, of course, that no one wanted to watch Homer. And that was because, while he was six years old, he was always falling and bawling. Theodore now eyed Homer sternly. "Wipe your nose," he ordered. Although every morning Aunt Mae, Homer's mother, gave Homer a clean, white handkerchief, he didn't use it. THE LAST CLEARING "With your handkerchief." "It's too clean," Homer said. "He's always bawling," Theodore told me. I couldn't go without Homer. He was my job. "I never bawl unless I'm hoort," Homer protested. "That's right," I said. "Homer never does baw] unless he's hurt." "And then everybody comes running,' 'Theodore said, his eyes smiling a little. "Because they know he's hurt. He's not like the shepherd boy who called "Wolf so often no one believed him. Homer never cries unless he's hurt." "And then how he yowls," Theodore said in his dry way. THE three of us, Jinny and Theodore and I, eyed Homer. He was wearing faded bib overalls. His stomach stuck out, and one of his suspenders had come undone. As usual, both of his shoestrings were untied. I bent down hurriedly and began to tie them. It was true what Theodore said about Homer's ame He had a most peculiar cry. The only way I can explain it is that it started way down in his chest and sort of mie its way up, the way a donkey must do when he brays. Homer's weeping had much the same sound as a donkey braying. Father claimed that when Homer fell and hurt himself over at their ranch, we could hear it over at ours. It was a rasping, carrying sound. And, as I said, when people heard it they ran toward it, because Homer never cried unless he was really hurt. And everyone was so careful with him he never got hurt except 519 when he hurt himself—which he did by falling. ) "The problem," I said now, straightening from tying his laces, "is to keep Homer from bawling." Father especially had a dread of hearing Homer bawl. Just the sight of us showing up down at the clearing with Homer would make Father very cross. And that would make Uncle Stanley cross, and then Uncle Stanley wouldn't come, and Mother wouldn't get her room. "Maybe Uncle Fred would look out for him," Theodore said. Uncle Fred was our old bachelor uncle. He was out back now working on the chicken coop. "Oh, no!" I said. Uncle Fred, I knew, wouldn't think of watching out for Homer. Just that morning I'd heard him say, "Keep that boy out of my sight. I can't bear hearing him yowl." "I'll watch out for Homer," I said now. "Homer, you promise me you won't bawl?" When he nodded solemnly, I went on, "Jinny, you take one of his hands. I'll take the other." Father and Uncle Stanley already had their piles of brush burning merrily by the time we reached the last clearing. Only, we didn't discover that this wasn't really the last clearing, and that they had already moved on, until it was too late. OR a minute it seemed as though we were in a great round room, maybe a castle. Uncle Stanley and Father had very carefully raked the piles of brush away from the stumps, so that they made a great circle, with just a narrow strip for a doorway. 520 "Where are they?" Theodore cried. "They were just here. Take Nig's reins." And he began racing around the clearing trying to see over the flames which were growing hotter and hotter and leaping higher and higher in a kind of dancing devilishglee. Nig was trembling. "Whoa, baby," I said. "Let's get out of here!" I called to Theodore. Jimmy and I were still holding Homer's hands tight. "Let's get out of here!" Theodore was coughing from the smoke when he came back to us. And at that moment it happened. A tall, spindly dry tree that Father somehow had missed or left standing for the fun of it, toppled, right across the narrow doorway. And there we were, hemmed in. Trapped. "We'll have to jump over it!" I screamed. Because surely even though it meant being singed, it was our only way out. "We'll have trouble with Nig!" Theodore shouted. He jerked the reins from my hands, and.'Theodore, who was always calm, went tearing round the clearing again. Plainly he was in a panic. Our castle was getting smaller and smaller, for by now some of the stumps were catching fire. "We'll have to leave Nig here," I screamed at him. Even while I spoke I saw it was too late for that, too. 'The whole tree that had toppled was afire now. The dry leaves and sprigs on either side were flaming. Suddenly I thought of a way out of our desperate situation. 'Turning to Homer, I cried, "Homer, start bawling. Homer, start bawling!" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1955 Homer's face was red and smudgy from the heat of the flames and the fine ash was sifting around us. "T promised," he said stubbornly. I grasped him by the shoulder, Shook him a trifle. "Homer, bawl. Father and Uncle Stanley can't be far. They'll come running, and Uncle Fred. "Homer," I cried again—I was frantic myself now—"we'll all be burned to death! I release you from your promise! Please bawl!" "Aw right. I'll try." He swallowed, and I saw he was trying. He made funny up and down sounds in his throat. But no real yowling came out. "TI can't," he said. "I can't bawl unless I'm hoort." THAT was true, I admitted, desperation seizing me. Homer had that peculiarity. He couldn't cry unless he was hurt. It didn't occur to me even then that I should hurt him. From long practice we had been so careful with him. I turned my attention back to Theodore. "You'd think they'd flames from the house!' "Your mother's taking a nap and Uncle Fred would never look up from his chicken coop!" "Where are our fathers?" I cried. The smoke was burning my throat and eyes. The flames were hot on my cheeks. All around us, the smell of burning wood, that would soon be soon be "How do I know where our fathers are?" Theodore cried wildly. "Maybe just a few feet away. They're watching the fire." "Watching it!" I screamed. "They ll watch us burn!" see the THE LAST CLEARING Theodore grasped my shoulder. "Stop that. They can't see us, of course. They don't know we're here." "Well, what...." The words stopped in my throat. From behind us came an odd, almost horrifying sound. Homer was bawling. "Ye-oww, ye-owww, oww," he barreled. And with each yowl the sound came forth louder and more rasping. "Yee-ow. Ye-owwww. Ow!" Theodore and I ran over to him. Jinny was already there. For that instant we almost forgot the flames. Homer was hurt. As usual, I saw, Homer had hurt himself. But this time on purpose. Behind my back he had climbed on a high stump. And then pitched forward on his face. - We helped him to his feet. But still the loud, donkey-like braying rolled up from his chest. He was crying because he was hurt! And, like us, he had almost forgotten the fire. DOWN the slope from the house we saw Uncle Fred come running, and behind him Mother with some blankets. And then Uncle Stanley and Father were there, too, stomping on the flames, throwing dirt. And in moments there was a path out of our burning castle. And Jinny and Homer and Theodore and Nig and I were safe. "Homer saved us!" I announced a few minutes later when we were 521 all grouped together in the dooryard. "Wipe your nose, Homer," 'Theodore said sternly. Homer got out his clean, white handkerchief. '"HHomer's a dear," Mother said. "From now on he can cry as much as he pleases.' And not minding her "condition," she lifted him in her arms, pressed her lips against his cheek. "IT never cry unless I'm hoort," Homer reminded us stubbornly. "That's right," Father said. He and Uncle Stanley, now it was all over, looked pale and weak. "It can't be a really bad thing to howl when you're hurt." "The problem," Theodore said, "is to keep Homer from hurting himself." "No," I said. After what we'd been through, I felt I could speak as a grownup. "I think the problem "is to keep Homer from hurting With that everybody agreed. But no one—not even Homer, who had taken on a very important stature in our sight—could at the moment find the answer to that. After the room was finished, our baby turned out to be a boy. He had very black hair and mops of it. When he was nine months old he could say "Mama" very clearly. By the time he was a year old, he was saying "Cathy," which is my name, and we gave him "Homer" for a middle name. "i= a Meant Adventure Nell Murbarger XCEPT for half a dozen gooseberry bushes and a short row of pieplant, our homestead in the High Plains country was completely barren of fruit, either wild or domestic. Not that we hadn't planted fruit trees with dogged persistence and the hope that springs eternal; but either the jackrabbits girdled them, or the cattle and horses ate them or tramped them, or they were winter-killed. Asa result of these recurrent disasters, the only locally grown fruit I knew as a child was that provided by the thickets of wild plums, chokecherries, and buffalo berries, which grew in the sheltered "breaks" on the Indian reservation, half a day's horse-and-wagon drive to the east. Due to the pressure of haying and other work that fell in midsummer, Father never felt we could spare time for more than one fruitharvesting jaunt each season, and, with our entire year's supply of jam and jelly contingent upon the success of that single trip, it was necessary that the time element be calculated with a neat degree of precision. Should we go too early, the chokecherries might be ripe, but the later-maturing plums would almost certainly be hard and green. If we delayed too long, on the other hand, the plums would be ripe, but the best of the chokecherries would have fallen prey to other pickers and to the great flocks of birds that came to feed on them. But, finally, a date for the trip would be selected, and daybreak of Page 522 the chosen morning would find us hurrying excitedly with last minute preparations. Breakfast would be eaten by lamplight, and, while Father harnessed Mike and Lady to the farm wagon, Mother and I would be packing a hamper with boiled eggs, potato salad, fried chicken, and all the other savory morsels necessary to picnic lunches. A "stone" casserole of beans, baked the previous afternoon, would be reheated and wrapped in many thicknesses of newspapers and cloth—a sheathing which aided admirably in keeping the container and its contents warm through all the hours until noon. By the time the sun peeked over the horizon, we would be well on our way, the horses trotting briskly in the cool air, their hoofs ringing musically and striking little spurts of dust from the hard dirt trail that wound across the prairie. Long before arriving at the chokecherry breaks, we would cross the boundary of the Indian reservation and soon would be _ traveling through a strange region quite different from our homestead where the grassy, level plains spread away almost as far as the eye could reach. Here the soil was limey-white, rather than the deep black of the prairie loam, and there was but little grass. There were short, choppy gullies and box canyons, and, mising abruptly from the sun-swept alkaline flats, were many queerly eroded buttes and knolls. CHOKECHERRIES MEANT ADVENTURE T would be nearly noon before we reached the vicinity of the cherry patch. After the horses had been unhitched, watered at a small milk-colored seep, and tethered in the sparse coolness of a thin cottonwood tree that grew beside the spring; we would spread a blanket in the narrow strip of shade cast by the wagon, and there would feast on the bountiful picnic lunch packed at daybreak and keenly anticipated through all the hours and miles traveled that morning. With the lunch remnants at last returned to the wagon box and each of us armed with several clean flour sacks to hold our berries, it remained only to hike back into the rough limestone breaks to the tangled thickets of small, crooked trees. Once we had' reconnoitered the area to locate the "best" picking, work got under way. Not all chokecherries gathered, of course, found their way into the sacks, a goodly number being "'processed" on the spot. The first berries eaten seemed a trifle bitter and puckerish, but this factor became less obvious as we continued to munch on them. Eventually, any suggestion of unpleasantness was lost altogether, and our taste buds registered only their spicy, rich flavor. As we worked, our hands and lips became darkened with stain, and the sides and bottoms of our cloth sacks were soon dyed with royal purple juice. As we collected the long, thin clusters of fruit, we were conscious of a throbbing life all around us—a thicket world quite different from the grass-and-sun-and-sky-world _ of our homestead, only thirty mules 523 distant. Thousands of unseen _locusts, or cicadas, as we called them, were busy scraping their little legfiddles—their notes, at times, sounding alarmingly like the rattling of rattlesnakes. Every now and then a robin would fly out of the brush, the plaintive calls of bob-whites and mourning doves issued from the thin line of cottonwoods fringing White River. AFTER we had picked possibly two hundred pounds of chokecherries, we would load them in the wagon, cushioning the sacks on a bed of soft prairie hay, and drive on up the ridge a mile farther to a hidden box canyon which If liked to pretend was known to us alone. Here the attraction was an acresized copse of wild plum trees. There were two varieties, one bearing tart red fruits the size of hickory nuts, and the other, yellow plums large as a pullet's egg and syrupy sweet. The small trees were crooked and angular, their every twig terminating in a sharp, spine-like projection, which clutched savagely at our sunbonnets and dresses, and made passage through the tangled thicket impossible to any but the smallest animals. Because of this factor, the greater portion of the fruit was destined to fall to waste; and even now, all through the grove, we could hear ripe plums thudding on the matted leaf mold below.