[Vol42 | August 1955 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Poem | Title: POETRY | Author: Cordery]
[POETRY The Mountain Climber — Frontispiece Maryhale Woolsey 489 The Land Is Still Elsie McKinnon Strachan' 501 Repentance Jean Mattinson 515 Down Summer Lanes Gertrude T. Kovan 517 The Length Frances C. Yost 521 Would You Find Peace? Gene Romolo 531 Three Little Sisters Dora Toone Brough 532 Implicit Margery S. Stewart 557 Revenant Ethel Jacobson 557 They Pass in Review Eva Cordery]
My  first  efforts  to  write  poetry  were 
based  on  her  lovely  poems,  stimu- 
lated by  her  Relief  Society  labors. 
(As  a  little  boy  I  once  insulted  a 
less  literary  minded  four-year-old 
playmate   by    calling   him    ''J^^^^s 
Whitcomb  Riley,"  a  name  I'd 
learned  from  a  Relief  Society  lesson 
but  which  he  thought  was  an 
epithet!) 
The  Lord  has  told  us  that  the 
".  .  .  .  fullness  of  the  earth"  (all 
those  things  which  he  has  provided 
for  our  "benefit  and  use")  is  given 
us  ''both  ...  to  strengthen  the  body 
and  to  enliven  the  souV  (D.  &  C. 
59:16  ff) .  No  life  is  really  full  which 
gives  entire  emphasis  to  material 
things  and  ignores  the  beautiful  and 
cultural  and  inspirational  in  the 
world.  No  home  meets  its  full  op- 
portunity which  fails  to  awaken  its 
inhabitants  to  an  appreciation  of 
these  things;  and  it  would  seem  to 
me  that  a  mother  does  not  meet  the 
full  possibilities  of  her  parenthood 
who  makes  no  effort  to  open  the 
lives  of  her  children  to  an  enjoy- 
ment of  them.  Possibly  no  organ- 
ization in  the  Church  is  more 
awake  to  its  responsibilities  in  the 
realm  of  the  beautiful  and  cultural 
than  the  Relief  Society. 
Some  of  the  earliest  and  clearest 
memories  of  my  youth  are  of  the 
(to  me,  then)  impossibly  intricate 
quilts  taking  form  on  the  quilting 
frames  in  our  front  room,  with  the 
ladies  chatting  happily  as  they  pains- 
takingly stitched  the  patterns.  I 
remember,  too,  the  rugs  that  were 
sewed  and  woven,  the  old  phono- 
graph records  that  were  heated  and 
softened  and  molded  into  trays  and 
dishes,  the  cloth  and  paper  and  wire 
flowers  that  were  fashioned,  the 
piano-bench  cover  and  the  chair 
seats  that  were  sewed  or  done  in 
needlepoint,  the  vases  that  were 
made  out  of  bottles  covered  with 
numerous  bits  of  the  lining  of 
Christmas  card  envelopes  and  shel-

570 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER  1955 
lacked.  These  early  lessons  in 
beauty  included,  too,  the  musical 
duets  and  choruses  being  practiced 
around  our  piano,  and  the  sight  and 
smell  of  bread  and  cookies  and  pies 
and  cakes  and  chili  made  for  the 
ward  dinners  and  bazaars,  where  we 
each  proudly  identified  our  own 
mother's  pies  and  her  aprons  and 
handiwork  as  they  hung  on  display. 
'lA/'OULD  any  mother  be  unaware 
of  the  importance  of  these  ac- 
tivities in  building  a  love  of  beauty 
and  creativeness  in  the  lives  of  her 
children?    The  poet  Saadi  said: 
If  of  thy  mortal  goods  thou  art  bereft, 
And  of  thy  slender  store 
Two  loaves  alone  to  thee  are  left. 
Sell  one  and  with  the  dole. 
Buy  hyacinths  to  feed  thy  soul. 
God's  gifts  to  man,  he  said,  are  to 
"  .  .  .  strengthen  the  body  and  to 
enliven  the  soul/' 
A  member  of  the  Relief  Society 
fully  meeting  the  challenge  of  the 
organization's  objectives  would  be 
diligently  engaged  in  seeking  ''.  .  .  to 
assist  in  correcting  the  morals  and 
strengthening  the  virtues  of  com- 
munity Irfe."  She  would  be  study- 
ing the  story  of  her  country's  and 
community's  institutions  and  would 
insist  upon  being  a  participating 
citizen,  and  urge  her  children  to  do 
likewise.  She  would  be  interested 
in  all  candidates  for  oflFice,  and 
might  become  one  herself.  The 
effect  of  consistent  attention  to  the 
Relief  Society  social  science  lessons 
over  the  past  years  would  be  to  sup- 
ply a  remarkable  education  in  the 
basic  documents  and  institutions  of 
our  country  and  our  society.  (The 
practical  effect  of  Relief  Society's 
stimulus  to  civic  responsibility  was 
to  move  me,  at  the  age  of  eight,  to 
leave  a  ladies'  political  caucus  in 
our  front  room  and  go  to  a  type- 
writer to  prepare  a  personal  ballot 
on  which  I  indicated  my  preference 
for  one  of  the  then  candidates  for 
the  Presidency  of  our  country!) 
Does  one  really  wonder  how 
much  the  attitude  of  a  parent  to- 
ward mankind  influences  a  child  in 
his  later  relationships?  One  basic 
Relief  Society  objective  is  ''.  .  .  to 
manifest  benevolence,  irrespective 
of  creed  or  nationality."  I  will  not 
forget  an  experience  of  a  few  years 
ago  when  I  tried,  unsuccessfully,  to 
find  public  accommodations  in  our 
city  for  three  fine,  clean,  educated 
negro  boys  who  were  visitors  to 
Temple  Square  as  members  of  a 
college  choir.  All  efforts  having 
failed,  I  called  my  mother  and 
found,  as  I  expected,  no  hesitancy 
in  her,  at  all,  as  she  offered  her 
home  for  the  use  of  the  boys  during 
their  stay,  and  came  herself  to  share 
our  tiny  apartment  while  they  lived 
in  her  home.  The  young  men  dis- 
covered a  benevolence  and  a  Chris- 
tian kindness  in  her  act  which  made 
them  truly  love  her  and  which  stim- 
ulated in  them,  as  it  has  done  in  me, 
a  greater  desire  to  be,  in  reality,  a 
brother  to  all  men. 
Our  home  was  a  very  average  and 
humble  one— no  one  of  us  would 
ever  think  to  suggest  otherwise,  and 
we  were  all  average  and  humble 
children.  But  our  home  (like  count- 
less other  Latter-day  Saint  homes) 
and  our  lives  (like  the  lives  ot 
countless  other  Latter-day  Saint 
children)  were  greatly  blessed  and 
affected  by  the  influence  of  the  won- 
derful program  of  the  Relief  So- 
ciety. 
What  a  blessing  would  come  to

THE  INFLUENCE  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  IN  THE  HOME 
571 
the  Lord's  children  and  his  Church, 
if  every  Latter-day  Saint  woman 
were  to  carry  into  her  home  and 
make  available  to  her  family  the  re- 
ligious, educational,  cultural,  social. 
humanitarian  program  of  this  in- 
spired organization,  the  Relief  So- 
ciety of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints! 
Happy  the  home  and  fortunate 
the  child  .  .  .  with  such  a  mother! 
»iif,w  'j«wi*»«i«»ia!«sr!!>!iK*-i:' 
Don  Knight 
RUBICON  BAY,  LAKE  TAHOE,  CALIFORNIA 
tjiutumn    cJestament 
Christie  Lund  Coles 
The  world  has  lit  the  emblems  of  her  faith 
Along  each  mountainside  and  lane  and  stream; 
The  yellow  trees  give  testament  that  she 
Is  one  with  the  promise  and  the  golden  dream. 
The  flaming  maples  bank  the  fires  of  hope, 
And  promise— with  a  pine-tree  surety— 
That  when  the  darkened  wintertime  is  done 
Rekindled  light  will  tip  each  willow  tree.