[Vol42 | August 1955 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Special Feature | Title: The Family Hour in Our Home | Author: LaRue S. Pettit and E. Alan Pettit]
The Family Hour in Our Home
LaRue S. Pettit and E. Alan Pettit, President Bakersfield Stake

OUR family was sitting around the supper table on a late spring day. Daddy mentioned that he would take the next day off, and asked if the family would like an outing. A family council was held. Daddy had a Church meeting after supper, so each of the children had to help. Alan, age fourteen, offered to see that cooking equipment and a large thermos of water were ready. Loneta, age thirteen, arranged to pack the lunch. Raymond, age eleven, agreed to have the extra clothes ready. Gaye, age eight, was to get her own clothes ready and help with the lunch. Mother was to follow up and see that each was ready. Plans were made to leave home about eight a. M. Each person helped plan and prepare for the outing.

The outing the next day was spent on the Mojave Desert, looking for rocks for our collection, hiking over the desert hills, observing the wild flowers, cooking hot dogs over a fire built by the children, and playing games. Outings such as this, planned quickly and smoothly, with everyone having a part, are enjoyed once or twice a month. 'They are actually the outgrowth of many years of different family activities.

Regardless of how busy we have been with Church affairs or business problems, we have made a point of spending an evening or two a week with the Page 492 children, and a couple of full days each month for such a trip. These family activities started when Alan was about three years old. 'The early Family Hour consisted of a regular weekly family meeting. 'These meetings followed a regular pattern: an opening song and prayer, discussion of family business, which included jobs around the house for Daddy and Mother, as well as for the children, assignments to the children to help with household tasks, a checkup on previous assignments, and a discussion of family plans, perhaps to prepare an outing such as the one described above. 'This regular business was followed carefully, and we tried to make the children a part of the family planning.

After the business, we had a program which was planned and put on by the children. Each one of the family would present a number: a reading, a song, a story or poem, or quote the Articles of Faith, which we tried to have the children memorize. Alan would, at times, give a trumpet solo; Loneta would play her violin; and Raymond would play the clarinet. Gaye would often sing a song which she made up as she sang. This program was followed by a scripture story by Mother and instructions from Father on a Church teaching or on a problem pertaining to the children's conduct. 'The Family Hour was closed by family prayer,, and afterwards, refreshments were often served by Mother.

THE FAMILY HOUR IN OUR HOME 493

THE E. ALAN PETTIT FAMILY
Left to right: Raymond; Sister LaRue S. Pettit; Loneta; Gaye; Brother E. Alan Pettit; Alan.

This type of Family Hour has been followed for years, though the program has varied from time to time. Sometimes the ward teachers would come during this little meeting and would take part, their lesson making very appropriate instructions. Often the grandparents were present, at which times an effort was made by the children to prepare something special. 'The children would sometimes prepare a play, making up their own script, and arranging the front room to look like a stage by using quilts and blankets for curtains.

DURING the years many changes were made. The "Family Court" was developed in an effort to give the children a means to work out some of their personal difficulties with each other. The "Court" was held as a part of the business of the Family Hour, and records were kept in the "Family Log" in which we make a record of the Family Hour and its activities. When one of the children had trouble with another member of the family, he would prepare a written "complaint." This complaint described the problem, and gave a time and place when the difficulty happened. It had to be in writing, or we would not consider it. For the httle children, this meant that they had to have the older children write down their complaint, or, at times, 494 their mother would write it.

During the Family Court the complaint was opened and read, with Father acting as the judge. The person writing the complaint was asked to explain his problem; other members of the family were questioned as witnesses, and the "defendant" was given a chance to give his story. Then a decision was given: a reprimand, a small fine, or a dismissal. These complaints covered such matters as: someone making too much noise at bedtime, not putting his toys away, not picking up his clothes, failing to help with his assignments. Usually such little complaints gave occasion for much _ laughter and fun, and the problems seemed to lose their seriousness.

At times a Family Rule was violated, and the children would be called to task. Such Family Rules were varied and made to apply to particular problems. For example: the children all had bicycles about the same time. It was noticed that they would often ride out of the driveway into the street without looking. A rule was made that each person going out of the driveway would have to stop his bike completely and look for cars before going into the street. Each violation would cost a fine of ten cents. One of the children put up a Stop sign. This worked well. A few times the children were fined. But at one Family Hour a complaint was written by Mother and all the children in which they listed ten separate occasions when Daddy had backed his car out of the driveway, perhaps slowing down, but not stopping before he entered the street. It was decided that DadRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1955 dy should follow exactly the same tule with the car as the children with their bicycles. So Daddy paid a fine of one dollar. 'The fines went into a family treasury, which once in awhile amounted to enough to take the family to a show. Most complaints were cleared up by talking them over, and by promises to do better.

As the children were growing up, a practice developed to tell "Chopsticks" stories. 'hese stories were told by Father to the children at many different times—sometimes as part of Family Hour, or as we were riding in the car, as the kiddies went to bed, or as we sat together on an afternoon or evening. 'These stories are pure fancy, perhaps best described as the fruits of a vivid imagination. They are sometimes devoted to putting over a point, or a moral. The original character of these stories was a little man five feet tall and five feet around (until he reduced). He managed to get in and out of many situations and, over a period of ten years, had a thousand experiences that have interested and amused and, perhaps, taught the children. His experiences included: developing a "push button Cadillac," working with a horse "Blackie" on a ranch, catching and taming a grizzly bear, exploring the Andes, fishing in the high mountain lakes, hunting Polar bears, searching for white Indians, etc. This story telling has provided many happy moments together, and, even now, the children often ask for a Chopsticks story. Other characters used were: 'Twigglebritches, the duck; Bluenose and Redear, the rabbits, and many others.

THE FAMILY HOUR IN OUR HOME

ANOTHER family activity used by Mother and the children to fill in " the hours when Daddy was busy with Church assignments has been a project of preparing a Book of Remembrance for the family and one for each of the children. These books have become very complete and interesting. The genealogical research has been directed by Mother, and each of the children has helped in copying his own records as well as in research in the libraries. 'This family activity has helped make many a Sunday afternoon profitable as well as pleasant. It is producing good records for each member of the family.

Our Family Hours have been filled with many different activities. One project was to read The Book of Mormon together, each person taking turns in reading a verse. This was started before the children could read, and they would repeat the words as read by their parents. This activity developed into a project assigned to the children to start reading The Book of Mormon again when each one reached his twelfth birthday. As soon after that as they read it through by themselves, they received a triple combination of the standard works. Alan received his within a year, and Loneta is nearly ready for hers.

Other activities include the Fam- 495 ily Council which is called to plan or consider any special project or problem. One sideline of this F'amily Council is Alan's cryptic comment: "Yes, our family is a democracy. Each member of the family votes on what he would like to do, and then Daddy decides what we will do!" This Family Council has been the planning stage for most Family Hours, outings, and other activities.

It would be impossible to describe the many things that have been done as a part of our Family Hour. The variety has been fun. The growing children, with their changing interests and activities, have made necessary a fluctuating and varied program. One thing has become definite: at least once a week the family will engage in some activity together. It may not be at the same hour or on the same day each week. It may be an hour or two in an evening, a full evening, or often a full day together. But © whatever it is, we find that it is an extremely important part of the week's activities.

We are fully aware of the responsibilities that are ours to stay together as a family, as we are also aware of our constant need for help from the Lord in the problem of rearing our children. May the Lord help all families, including our own, to grow in his sight!