[Vol42 | August 1955 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Fiction | Title: Special Birthday— Part I | Author: Olive W. Burt]
Special Birthday
Olive W. Burt
Part I

MYRA Gregory was determined that Cal's birthday dinner should be a happy one. Not a frown, not a whisper should mar it. For, after all, it was a very important birthday, his sixty-fifth. And the sixty-fifth birthday nowadays meant something special. Retirement. Leisure.

Myra, stirring fruit into the halfset lime jello, Cal's favorite salad, frowned slightly. In her. Mind she repeated the two words—retirement, leisure. Added together, they should equal happiness. But was the problem that simple?

Myra was thinking of Cal's face during the past few days. He had worn a determined look of happiness. He had joked and laughed about today—his last day "at the old grind." But, significantly, he hadn't said a word about the days to follow. Not a word.

Myra told herself, you can't be married to a man for forty years and not know what he is feeling and thinking, whether he tells you or not. And Cal, she knew, was not feeling happy about this sixtyfifth birthday.

Myra slipped the salad into the refrigerator. She touched the devil's food cake and found it was cool enough to frost. Her lips quirked into a smile as she piled chocolate frosting deep on it. She was remembering Cal's first birthday after they were married.: Myra had grown up in the traPage 496 dition of a white birthday cake covered with white frosting, and sprinkled with bits of colored sugar. So on Cal's birthday she had made him a gorgeous white cake. The colored sugar had sparkled like tiny bits of jewelled confetti. She had felt so excited and happy—her first birthday cake for her wonderful husband.

Now, deftly swirling the chocolate frosting, Myra remembered Cal's face when he had seen that cake. It had suddenly worn such a comical expression—a mixture of amazement and dismay and disappointment. It had lasted only a second. Then Cal had grinned. "What a beautiful cake, Myra! First one I ever had that was so pretty!" And he had swung her off her feet, kissing her.

Myra had carefully watched her young husband eat that cake. He had seemed to enjoy it all right. But there was something lacking. And that night, lying in his arms, she had asked cautiously, "Cal, you said that was the first birthday cake you'd ever had that was so pretty. What kind of birthday cakes have you had? Or didn't you have any?"

"Have any? I'll say I did. Mother always made me a big devil's food cake—not that blackish kind, but a rich mahogany red. And she piled it high with chocolate frosting."

Myra had interrupted, shocked. "A chocolate birthday cake? Oh, Cal, how " She had stopped the SPECIAL BIRTHDAY word "awful" that was on the tip of her tongue and substituted lamely, "wonderful." "I never thought of a chocolate birthday cake."

"I guess no one would but Mother. I know the other kids had cakes with white frosting or pink—one little girl had blue frosting on her birthday cake. I went to the party. Boy, if I didn't feel sorry for her. No chocolate cake! But Mother knew what I liked and she was great for giving us what we liked, especially on our birthdays."

This, Myra now told herself, was the thirty-ninth chocolate birthday cake she had made for Cal. Never another luscious white one sparkling with colored sugar.

MYRA placed the big cake carefully on the milk-glass cake stand and set it in its place of honor on the sideboard. She looked around her. Things were well underway. Her practiced hand made little work of preparing a meal for the whole family. They'd all be present, of course, for Cal's birthday. Hugh, with Marge and their six youngsters; Carol and Grant and their two. It would mean fourteen at table, but Myra thought nothing of the work involved. It was sheer pleasure for her to have her family seated around the big table.,

She went out into the yard to cut some roses for the house. As always, she paused at the top of the steps leading down into the garden and smiled with pleasure. It was perfect. But it ought to be—all the hours she and Cal had spent on it! They had enjoyed working there together, smelling the newly turned 497 earth, the wet grass, the young flowers, reaching a deep harmony of spirit as they labored together in the sun.

She went to the Mirandy rosebush Cal had given her on Carol's birthday. 'That was Cal—on each child's birthday he brought their mother a gift of flowers. She was clipping the long-stemmed, radiantly red blooms when Carol herself came across the lawn. She was carrying Mindy, sunshiny in yellow organdy, and David was tagging at her heels. 'The little boy held a clumsily wrapped package.

"Hi, Mom!" Carol called out gaily. "Here we are, always ahead of time."

Myra came up the steps. "Carol, darling. You know you're never ahead of time here. Hi, David." She stooped to kiss her grandson. "Where's Gramps?"

David asked without preamble. Myra laughed. "He'll be home soon. In the meantime, won't I do?"

"I got a present for Gramps. I gotta give it to him," David said firmly.
