BENEATH THE PURPLE MOUNTAINS with her own daughter any more. "IT am in charge of the lunch, Mother, or I would stay home and visit with you. I think that you would enjoy it." "Well, all right, dear. I might just as well go. I don't have anything else to do, with the children in school." The next morning Rosemary prepared the food for the noonday meal for Carl and his men, and before Teresa could believe it, things were in order, and they were on their way to the meetinghouse. "No wonder you keep thin, Rosemary. I get tired just watching you." 'Teresa was grateful for Rosemary's vitality. HE meetinghouse proved to be very well kept, also. It was difficult for Teresa to explain it to herself, but it felt comfortable and friendly. The women were very friendly, not at all as Teresa had pictured them. She had imagined they would look older, tired, somewhat disheveled. As it turned out, they were attractively dressed in bright, cotton frocks. 'They were healthy and vital looking. "Are you having a good time, Mother?" Rosemary stopped for a moment to talk to Teresa. "Yes, yes, I am, Rosemary." Teresa was surprised to realize that she was actually enjoying herself. Once back at the farm, Teresa went out into the kitchen to help Rosemary with dinner. "You know, dear, I don't think that I want to leave." Rosemary looked up from where she was peeling potatoes. 'Teresa's words had obviously startled her. "What did you say, Mother?" Teresa smiled. "I didn't mean to surprise you so, dear, but I think that at last I am beginning to understand your way of life." She put her arm about her daughter's waist. "Tt is a good, rich life for you, Carl, and the children, Rosemary. It is truly a life full of purpose. I am just happy that you didn't listen to me. I am also happy that you and Carl have given yourselves so much to work for. I am very glad that you are out here in the country." "Do you really mean_ that?" Rosemary was amazed. "What changed you, Mother? I don't understand." "T don't really know myself, Rosemary. I suppose that it was seeing those women today. They all had that same happy look that you have. Their lives seem so full of planning and keeping busy that they do not have the time to worry about the things that they don't have. I am speaking of material things, of course." "That's true. The desire for elaborate things seems to leave you. You don't have the time to think about them." Rosemary was thoughtful now. "There is something else, too, about this part of the country, Rosemary,' 'Teresa added in _afterthought. "What is that?" "T have never slept better in my life." 'Teresa smiled. Rosemary laughed sweetly. "You, too. The same thing happened to me when I came here." Together, Rosemary and Teresa walked out to the back yard to watch the children play. 'Teresa had meant what she said. She dreaded leaving the farm nestled beneath the purple mountains and the grandeur of the restful spring days. She would even miss Scampie. She had grown so used to his sleeping by her feet as she rested in Carl's easy chair.