Let Us Be Charitable By Emma A. Empey N these days of unemployment and economic distress, the Relief Society will no doubt have a heavier burden to carry this year than ever before. Many who have heretofore been self-sustaining and ° have even had a savings account sufficient to tide them over a short period, have been out of employment so long that their savings are exhausted and unless work is provided for them, they will be under the necessity of receiving assistance. All charitable agencies throughout the country, both public and private, are facing the same condition, and like the Relief Society, are making a brave effort to meet the situation. It is evident that steps should be taken simultaneously, first, to create and provide work, secondly, to raise increased amounts for charitable relief. The Woman's Utah State Committee on unemployment is recommending that women, wherever possible, create work for women in and about their homes, and wherever possible Relief Society women will no doubt cooperate with and lend their support to this movement. Because everything seems insecure today, many people whose financial circumstances have not changed or been interfered with in the least, through fear are giving up help in their homes or are reluctant to call in special help in cases of sickness, not realizing that they are thus contributing to the unemployment situation. Such people should be encouraged to provide and increase employment wherever possible. All welfare agencies throughout the country, including the Relief Society, are facing a shortage of funds due to the fact that some who have faithfully contributed in the past are now finding themselves less able to give, and others, through fear and apprehension, are cutting down their contributions, even though their circumstances have not changed. It is the duty of Relief Society women generally to look ahead and make plans to increase the charity fund of the organization to their utmost during this time of depression. The first step in this direction would be for each woman to decide on a definite amount to contribute monthly, and the second step should be to 'see that this amount reaches the officers of the organization. It sometimes happens that the family is not at home when the Relief Society teachers call, or it might be that at the moment there is no change on hand. In either case, it is important that the family's intended donation should reach the Relief Society secretary-treasurer. The unique plan recommended in the article, The Old Teapot, in the October, 1931 number of the Magazine, would be an excellent one to follow. In the April, 1931 Conference, Counselor Amy Brown Lyman called attention to the fact that the average contribution per Relief Society donor for the year of 1930 was $1.50, or 12 1/2 c per donor per month. This average is entirely too small. While this amount would be a liberal contribution for many, and, like the widow's mite, is as acceptable as any contribution could be, still the fact remains that many are able to give more. It would be commendable at this time especially 694 to encourage the children in the family to save their pennies and add them to mother's donation. This would serve a two-fold purpose—it would add to the funds and would teach the children not only unselfishness but sympathy for those less fortunate than themselves. This MADONNA OF RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE plan would also teach children the order of giving through organized charity, which method was advocated by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Let us all open our hearts and give liberally in this great time of need. Raphael THE CHAIR
