Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon HE Christmas spirit should radiate the world this year 1931 as never before. In this day of extremity the story of the lowly manger birth to the sacrifice on Calvary is more vivid than ever, and the tender teachings of the Savior are indeed a safe guide to be heeded by all mankind, for they lead along paths of righteous living, sprinkled by deeds of kindness. Relief agencies everywhere have been gathering and preparing comforts and cheer for those in need. The shops dressed in tinsel and Christmas colors glitter like Fairyland, an inviting temptation to those who have means to enter and purchase gifts. The spirit of love is in the heart at Christmas time. LLE. JOSEE LAVAL, the vivacious daughter of Premier Laval of France, won the hearts of New York and Washington society even though her distinguished father did not accomplish all he crossed over for. ANE ADDAMS was one of the delegation of women who recently presented a petition to President Hoover asking for total disarmament. While in the Nation's Capital on this mission Miss Addams was presented with an award for her welfare work, of several thousand dollars. She said she would use this money for the unemployed in Chicago. KATHRYN SELLERS, Judge of the Juvenile Court of the District of Columbia says during her administration, covering a period of 13 years, 75 per cent of the cases have been amicably settled without bringing them to trial. An interesting fact is that during the depression there have been fewer cases of child destitution brought to the Court's attention than in any other period of equal length. RS. CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT predicts that Spain having granted suffrage to women, all Southern Europe will soon fall in line and in 25 years in all countries of the world women will be casting their votes. The Filipino women have succeeded in getting the measure for Suffrage passed in the House of Representatives but there is much opposition in the Senate. Mrs. Patrick J. Hurley, wife of Secretary of War Hurley is a great admirer of the Filipino women and says they certainly ought to have Suffrage. She claims they have gone American less slowly than their men folk though they still wear the beautiful and picturesque costume of the Phillipines. HE recent election in England shows 14 women led by Lady Astor will be members of the House of Commons. Miss Megan Lloyd George is the only Liberal. HOULD the Republican party nominate Alice Longworth for Vice President and New Jersey appoint Mrs. Morrow to fill the place in the Senate to which her late husband was elected there might be as much interest for the newspapers on this side of the Atlantic as abroad. Lady Astor would find a strong competitor for publicity in 'Princess Alice." F, PNA ST. VINCENT MILLAY was awarded the Helen Haire Levinson prize for her "Three Sonnets" appearing in Poetry, a magazine of verse, and Helen Hoyt of California won a special lyric prize for her three lyrics "For One Who Died in Spring" printed in the same magazine. R. MARY LOWELL COOLEGE, formerly a member of the faculty at Vassar College has been appointed dean at Wellesley.
