The Short Story An address given at the April Relief Society Conference By Juliaetta B. Jensen E have indeed been fortunate during the past year in our literary work in the Relief Society. We have taken imaginary voyages into foreign lands. In this sense we have lost some of our provincialism and have become citizens of the world. With Auper and Bata we entered that very interesting and unique country, Egypt. We got a glimpse of beliefs and customs at the time of the great Pharaohs. Then across the Mediterranean we went to Greece and Rome. This literature is of vital importance because it is a part of our literary inheritance which has been echoed all down the ages in the best of our literature. To the Eastward lies the Holy Land, the scene of many of our Bible stories. Hebrew literature is our other great ancestor. From the Bible we get not only the foundation principles of our spiritual life, but from it we also get our very conception of literary form. The Bible has greatly affected the style of many of our greatest writers. The principle of parallelism, as well as some of the poetic beauty of the Bible, will be seen in "Silence— A Fable" by Poe Our next study was the short stories of Great Britain. One of these was of great importance— "Beowulf." It is a product of our pagan ancestors, the Anglo-Saxons whose splendid qualities made them easy converts to Christianity when it was later brought from Rome. In Beowulf we find many of the qualities for which we stand today; ideals that have been handed down to us: courage in facing the battles of life; love of glory, and a longing to be worthy of remembrance after death; reverence for woman_ hood; love of home and children in spite of the fact that they were searovers; and service to our fellowmen. Beowulf gave his life for his people. Of the present day short story writers in England, and in the world, none stands higher than Rudyard Kipling. In "The Brushwood Boy," "They," and 'Without Benefit of Clergy" he has given u delicate masterpieces. The French writers, with Maupassant and Merimee, come close to our greatest writers in the mastery of the technique of the short story. The French are naturally artistic, and they have been trained all their lives in Greek and Roman literature, hence the short story technique comes easily to them. The German short stories are less known, but the germ of one of them has glorified Germany, that is the story of Faust. Many versions of it existed during the Middle Ages, but it was the great Goethe who expanded it and immortalized it. We have the Italian story for June, "The Falcon" from the Decameron by Boccaccio. This is the most famous ancient collection of stories that are short. The influence of these stories cannot be overestimated. Beyond these yet lie the Russian short story which I trust we shall enjoy as much as we have the others. The Russians have led the world in their great novels and short stories. The majority of the stories we have studied so far are not modern short stories, but they have played an important part in the evolution of the modern short story. Hence our study so far forms an important background. THE SHORT STORY We must make a distinction between stories that are short and the modern short story. The ancient stories that are short were told chiefly for entertainment. The writers were not conscious of any definite rules, or of any artistic purpose. The modern short story is a distinct literary type which America is credited with having given to the world. It is our only contribution of a distinct literary type. We should be proud of such a contribution. Literary masterpieces of first order in the short story were rare before Poe. It was Edgar Allen Poe who first formulated the principles governing the short story. They came as an outgrowth of his theory of poetry. He formulated them while making a study of Hawthorne's "Twice-Told Tales." If the short story is our contribution to literature and if we have produced some of the great writers of the short story, what a treat still awaits us in our study of the American short story. I think we shall feel more at home with our own stories, and I am sure we shall find such a rich field that we shall be asking our General Board to extend the time in which we may continue our study of this interesting field. One year on the American short story is not enough. The modern short story has come to meet a definite need. Modern life is so full, that we have little leisure time. The short story can be read at a sitting, or while on the train going to and from work. Jessup and Canby say, "There are causes, artistic and otherwise, for the present blossoming of the short story, causes which in themselves differ from those which have made the novel flourish. In a time of much writing, tastes are quickly jaded, and the short story because it 699 is terse, striking, highly colored, and somewhat new, meets with quick applause. Its brevity is of advantage, for many people can be made to swallow good literature in a pill who reject it in larger doses." Modern readers have cultivated tastes and demand that the stories shall not be short only, but they demand artistic effect and perfection of technique. The same may be said of the one-act play. The modern short story does not tell all. It suggests much, and leaves something to the imagination. This is a point in its favor. While there is some leniency in writing stories, yet critics are agreed that writers must conform to certain conditions. Definiteness of structure gives definiteness of impression. Maximum of effect with minimum of material and effort is a modern creed in many phases of life as well as in literature. If one is to accomplish this in the short story an exacting art is necessary. As my illustrations I have chosen "Silence—A Fable,' by Poe; and "The Hollow of the Three Hills," by Hawthorne. (These were reviewed in about six minutes to each story.) May we as teachers plunge eagerly into this work. When we appear before our groups to present a lesson, we should be so full of our subject that we cannot present the half of it. The greater our knowledge, the greater our love will be for the work, and the greater will be our ability to inspire others. Our study of the short story should broaden our sympathies for all nations and all people, it should deepen our understanding of life and its purposes, and it should give us glimpses of the divine. May this be our happy lot, and may our Heavenly Father bless us that we may be teachers in very deed. I ask it. Amen.
