Vol. XVIII DECEMBER, 1931 No. 12
EDITORIAL
It Is His Birthday
WELL may this be a time of joy and good will! Well may hearts rejoice as from church towers the jubilant bells ring out and as the glad carols waft on the air the message of his advent! Annie Payson Call, in her book, The Freedom of Life, tells of a family who had a guest. When they found that he was to have a birthday while he was visiting them, they gladly prepared to celebrate it. Days and weeks before the anniversary, they prepared?they cooked and planned and arranged decorations. They selected little gifts for one another. The whole house was in confusion for weeks before the birthday came. Everyone was in a hurry; everything that could be postponed until after the birthday was put off. Finally the birthday arrived?the rooms were beautifully decorated, the gifts arranged, and the guests had arrived. As soon as the festivities had begun, a little child asked, "Mama, where is the man whose birthday it is?" "I do not know, but I will inquire," replied the mother. She asked her neighbor, who replied, "We are celebrating the birthday of a guest in the house." "But where is the guest? Where is the man whose birthday it is?" she asked a member of the family. Nobody knew. They went on with their celebration. The little child slipped out of the room determined to find the man whose birthday it was. After a long search, he was found in the attic?lonely and sick. He had been asked to leave his guest room so as to be out of the way while the preparations were going on. He had taken ill and all save a servant had been too busy to think of him. Preparations for his birthday celebration had so engrossed them that they had forgotten him entirely.
Miss Call sagely remarks, "This is the way it is with most of us at Christmas time." Let us remember?"We cannot give truly in the spirit of Christmas if we rush and hurry and feel strained and anxious about our gifts." "We cannot give in a truly loving spirit if we give in order that we may receive." "We cannot give truly if we give more than we can afford."
Relief Society Contributions
OUR Relief Society teachers visit the homes of the people?1. To learn how the people are and to report cases of illness or distress. 2. To promote a spirit of love and good will. 3. To take a definite message which is printed in the Magazine. 4. To collect donations to be used for the poor.
It is surprising that many people are unaware that contributions are accepted by these visitors. Many who are able and would be willing to give, let the teachers depart without contributing. It has been a tradition that Relief Society teachers should not ask for contributions, and a pertinent question is?What can we do in order that our contributions may be increased?
We think our bishops, if asked, would speak of Relief Society contributions in the sacrament meetings. This could very properly be made a theme in our Relief Society ward conferences, the speaker telling of the need of the fund and of the good accomplished by it. Many of those who do contribute could well afford to give more if they realized the necessity of it. If people are not at home when the Relief Society teachers call, the money should be sent to the organization; or if for some reason no contribution is made for one month, it should be made up the next. All our women should determine how much they can afford to give and see that that amount reaches the Society annually. Some few districts that have no needy families in their wards do not take contributions and so deprive people of the blessing of giving. It would be a gracious thing for such wards to make the collection and consult the Stake President to find out where the fund is needed.
Dr. Charles F. Wilcox
THE hearts of our readers go out in tender sympathy to Sister Elizabeth Stevenson Wilcox, for many years a member of the General Board of Relief Society. On October 21st, her husband, Dr. Charles F. Wilcox, passed away, thus severing a companionship of 47 years. Sister Wilcox has been a wonderful wife and mother. Her home has been one of beauty and culture and peace. She and her husband have mutually enjoyed art, music, literature. She studied his interests and he could always find rest in his home after the duties of the day. The spirit of the family has been one of thoughtful consideration and kindness. "Thoughtfulness and love for each other. Indeed, this spirit extended further. A close friend said, "There is nothing they would not do for their friends?love and thoughtfulness and love are characteristics of each member of the family." May Sister Wilcox and her children be blessed with health, strength and peace.
Address of Relief Society Headquarters
IN writing to any department of the Relief Society general offices, the room number in the Bishop's Building should be given. Mail for all departments, except the Magazine, should be directed to General Board Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. All correspondence for both the editorial and business offices of the Relief Society Magazine should be addressed to 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. If the writer desires to give the street and number, it is 14 Temple Avenue, and not 40 North Main?the latter address takes the mail to the office of the Presiding Bishopric.
Beware of Tobacco
BECAUSE it pollutes, poisons, and paralyzes the finest physical, mental, and spiritual faculties of its users. Therefore, its use is a violation of the moral law.
BECAUSE it has proved itself, especially in the form of the cigarette, to be an enslaving factor, unsurpassed in its pernicious hold upon its victims.
BECAUSE it daily recruits our youth to its ranks by the thousands, to march a downward path of dereliction and defeat, of suffering, and of crime.
BECAUSE cunning, deceit, and greed characterize the methods of those who market this nefarious narcotic.
BECAUSE its use engenders an unbelievable degree of selfishness, thoughtlessness, and carelessness in its addicts (fires, explosions, etc.)
BECAUSE an increasing number of the world's educational and industrial leaders recognize and denounce it as a menace and a curse to society.
BECAUSE it has invaded with shameless audacity the sacred realm of womanhood, the race's fountain-head of purity, sanctity, and idealism.
BECAUSE the cigarette is an enemy to human welfare, so insidious, so seductive, yet so positive in its evil effects as to justify a relentless stand against it on the part of every intelligent individual and organization.?From the "Junior No Tobacco Annual."

