Educational Items
Few educational leaders have been as much in the limelight during the past few weeks as has President Ray Lyman Wilbur, of Stanford University. People generally were loud in praise of his finished addresses at the National Education Association, for he is an orator of the first order. The effect of his addresses had not died away when news came that he had been elected president of the American Medical Association; also, he was one of the first doctors appealed to for consultation during the illness of the late President Warren G. Harding.

A good many people who have had the privilege of visiting the Washington Elm, the old tree under which George Washington took command of the American armies, will feel sorry to learn that the tree is dead. Many school children have visited it in the past and there are many people in the United States who were looking forward to the opportunity of seeing the tree in the future. Much as we regret the fact that the tree is no longer living, we deeply rejoice that somebody connected with Harvard University had the vision, some forty years ago, to take a slip from its branches, plant it and care for it, so that it is now flourishing on the Harvard campus.
 
The medal of the Civic Forum has been awarded in the past to Goethals, Edison, Bell and Hoover. These gentlemen belong to the scientists' group, consequently the teaching fraternity extends hearty congratulations to President Emeritus Charles W. Eliot, who is the first of its group to capture the medal.
Mrs. Dorothy Melissa Riggs Stewart, who was the first teacher in Provo, hired by a board of trustees, died July 12, 1923, at her home in Provo City.
From Dr. David Starr Jordan's address on "The University and Moral Teaching" delivered at the N. E. A. San Francisco, we select the following very significant paragraph. "The university has about four roads open to turn its youth to righteousness," said Dr. Jordan. "These roads are: the contagion of personality, the inspiration of intellect, the arousing of enthusiasm for intensive work, and the devotion to helpfulness towards others. As for the first, to turn our youth towards righteousness, we must show them how righteousness looks when it is lived; as to the second, a great teacher always leaves a great mark on every student with whom he comes into real contact; as to the third, great investigators breed investigators—there is an intellectual heredity among scholars as well as a physical one, as every serious worker recognizes. "The university can exert a tremendous influence for moral life, but only through the unflinching devotion of its members, and this influence must be exerted spontaneously, even unconsciously, by men alien to all forms of vulgarity and vice, and in thorough sympathy with the best in mind or morals in the idealism of youth."

Camilla Clara Mieth Cobb First Kindergarten Teacher in Utah Reinhard Maeser
"We look back upon the past and draw from it our heroes and our idols. And it is right that we should do so, insofar as these heroes and idols are worthy of our esteem and gratitude." Utah's educational history could not be accurately written unless there appeared upon its pages the name of Camilla C. Cobb, she who was our first Kindergarten teacher in this state. She came of parents whose lives were devoted to the education of

youth, her father being the presiding official of the leading school in the city of Dresden, Saxony, Germany. It was in this school that Dr. Karl G. Maeser taught, and it was the eldest daughter of this principal whom he married. Camilla early inclined toward the profession of teaching, and though only twelve years of age when she left Germany, she had already learned many of the ways and methods employed in the early training of the child. Her innate love for children and humanity is what made her the successful teacher that she was. It was in 1877, in a little room adjoining the chapel of President Brigham Young, situated just back of the Eagle Gate, that Mrs. Cobb began her work as Kindergarten teacher in Utah. She had taken lessons from an eminent teacher in New Jersey, some time before, and it was while studying in New Jersey that she was one day visited by Mr. John W. Young, who was so impressed with her superior ability in this work, that he at once suggested to her the need of her services in Utah. Upon her return to the territory, about a year later, she was at once employed to teach the children of Mr. Young, but he later generously opened the school for the admission of others. A letter, dated February of this year, and written by one of the boys, now a prominent Utahn, who attended her school, says: "To my mind, you have done more for the uplift of the child than any other woman I know; first, because you introduced real Kindergarten work into the state; second, you were associated at the head of the largest child organization in the Church—the Primary association; but these are not alone the reasons why I say you have done more than others; but because of your interest in every child whom you called by name." Camilla Clara Mieth Cobb was born in Dresden, Saxony, Germany, May 24, 1843. She was baptized in 1855, left Germany for America in 1856, with the Maeser family, arrived in Utah, September, 1860. She married James T. Cobb, and is the mother of six children, only three of whom are living. She lives at 208 Canyon Road, Salt Lake City. One would hardly suspect from her appearance, her lively, cheery manner that she had passed the eightieth mile-stone on life's journey. The letter already quoted from, further says: "You are one of the youngest ladies in the land. Your voice over the phone sounds like the voice of a girl of eighteen. Lift up your head and rejoice because of your great work, for thousands will bless your name forever."

Blame the Schools Frederic Allison Tupper
The worm will turn eventually. Even the frightened rabbit, when cornered, will kick, eventually. To all the amateur educational critics, to all the educational quacks and charlatans, whose chief stock in trade is unlimited, unthinking, and utterly unreasonable abuse of the public schools there will come an answer—eventually. So, why not now?
"F. C. Sears," so our contemporary, the Greenfield Gazette and Courier reports, "a professor at Massachusetts Agricultural College, at Amherst, who recently completed a four-years' term on the school committee, relieves his feelings in verse as follows:—
Is your child's digestion bad? Blame the schools! Is he sick, morose or sad? Blame the schools! Do your children learn to fight? Do they lie awake at night? Do they fail to do what's right? Blame the schools!
Do your boys smoke cigarettes? Blame the schools! Are your girls all suffragettes? Blame the schools! Do your children's shoes wear out? That's the school board's fault, no doubt! Are your children getting stout? Blame the schools!
Is the noon recess too short? Blame the schools! Do they need more time for sport? Blame the schools! Is the noon recess too long? Oh, that plan is surely wrong, They should spend the time in song! Blame the schools!

Is your child a nervous wreck? Blame the schools! Are there pimples on her neck? Blame the schools! Blame the schools for what they do And for what they don't do, too. They should seek advice from you! Blame the schools!
Are your children getting thin? Blame the schools! Do they choose the path of sin? Blame the schools! Do your children work too hard? Are they playing 'round your yard? Do they play the wicked card? Blame the schools!
Do your children's teeth decay? Blame the schools! For the tax you have to pay, Blame the schools! For the teachers they have hired And the ones that they have fired, Tell the board they make you tired! Blame the schools!
Is your daughter's eyesight bad? Blame the schools! Is your son a little cad? Blame the schools! Do your children learn to swear? Is there something in their hair? Is their trouble anywhere? Blame the schools!
If your daughters are too bold, Blame the schools! If the winters are too cold, Blame the schools! If you feel like being witty Here's a title for your ditty, "Damn that stupid school committee And the schools!"
—Springfield Republican.

Something to Think About By Heber J. Sears, M. D., Department of Hygiene and Preventive Medicine, University of Utah
Education is that training which results in physical, mental and moral health. Having these, with the Spirit of God, one has everything. Lacking these, one has nothing. All education should tend to fit us for the duties of life and increase our appreciation of the best there is in life. It should train hand, heart, and brain. Education is obtained out of school or college as much, and sometimes more than in school or college. The test of its value is: Does it equip for life and make life fuller and richer? We have made wonderful advancement in our educational system in the past half century. We are threading our way out of darkness into light, but there are three types of education which must be brought to the fore if we are ever to have a superior race. They are Health Education, Character Education, and Education for Parenthood. Within this magic circle lies our greatest hope. Without health we are unable to enjoy life, hence health-education is fundamental. Learn about history, geography and arithmetic if you have time, but learn to grasp the health ideal. Diseases are not cured by drugs and medicines, but by the establishment of a health ideal. We have bodies as well as minds. Without character a human is of less value than an animal. Health is important, but is it second to character. All our training of every description should ultimately tend to develop character. The heart as well as the head should have its full share of culture. Teach chemistry, mathematics, and physics if you have time, but teach men to be men and women to be women in every sense of the word. Parenthood is the real business of life. It embraces all the real duties, requires the best of health, demands a worthy character, and calls for the highest ideals. Yet of all the branches of training this one is most neglected. We trust too much to the guidance of instincts and desires—following the rainbow road. Study music, art, and literature if you have time, but study first how best to fulfill the sublimest function of all—parenthood. Every child has a right to be well born. A thorough training and a proper understanding of the obligations and responsibilities of parenthood would abolish poverty, disease and crime. The building of reform institutions is not striking at the root of the problem. To attempt to legislate people into good citizens is a travesty. To educate them sanely is our only hope.

The Vampire Anne Pike Greenwood
"Sausage again!" Jim lifted the dish mentioned, impatiently, scorning to help himself, but passing it to the hired man. "First bacon and then sausage, and then bacon and then sausage, with a hundred and twenty-five hens on the place. I should think with all your boasted knowledge of hens you could at least make them lay in the springtime." "You know, Jim," his wife spoke gently, "that the hens have had nothing but oats all winter and spring, and hardly enough to keep the breath of life in them. No matter how much knowledge I might have, I can't make them lay on that." "Maybe if you'd clean that filthy house out the hens might lay." "You know I can't leave the two babies to do that, with the chicken-house so far away." "You've got two boys here that can do it for you." "Not without my being with them." "Then they are as worthless as I thought them." He hesitated a moment, then decided to take a sausage. There were plenty of buckwheat cakes and potatoes. "I gave you those hens when we came on the farm because I thought you would do something with them, but you have proved your inefficiency there as elsewhere." His wife did not answer him nor raise her eyes from her baby's head. She was trying to ignore what was worse to her than bodily blows. Jimmy came into the room smiling so that he showed the vacancies where he had shed his two upper cuspids. "Mrs. Grow just said that now Vance's have their auto we will be the next to get one." His mother, sitting apart to nurse the baby, answered him with a smile, "We are not in the same class with the Vances, Jimmy." "I don't know what you mean," commented Jim roughly, not looking up from the magazine spread before him on the breakfast table. "Why I mean," said his wife still smiling, "that Vances have been here several years longer than we have, and they completely own their own farm." "They came here just two years before we did, and they were so poor that the neighbors had to feed them," contradicted