FROM THE "PHELPS CITIZEN"

	We are indebted to our former townsman,
Gamaliel Case, of Sodus, for the following cor-
respondence. The lady, Mrs. Sarah M. Kim-
ball, was the daughter of Oliver Granger and
grand daughter of Pierce Granger, both of
whom were born in Phelps:—Ed.
	LOGAN, Cache Co., Utah, Aug. 24, 1884.
MR. GAMALIEL CASE—DEAR COUSIN:
	I realize that this will be a strange message
to you, from a strange messenger.
	I learned by letter from our departed cousin,
Mrs. Pomeroy, that you knew of my visit to
Phelps and Newark last year.
	Uncle Elihu of Michigan told me of your
being in Sodus. I much desired to see you, but
all seemed so strange that I failed to accom-
plish it.
	One important object that I had in visiting
my native state, was to gather records of my
kindred dead. I could better explain to you
in person than on paper why I wish these re-
cords. I hardly hope to be able to make you
comprehend the importance this matter has for
me. You must know something of the pecul-
iar people with whom I have chosen to cast my
lot. One of our peculiarities is, we build Tem-
ples to the name of the God of heaven and
earth. They are built at great expense and
dedicated to the Most High. We enter there-
in and attend to ordinances most sacred, for
ourselves and such as we consider our worthy
dead. For instance, last Tuesday I enjoyed
the to me blessed privilege of entering the
Logan Temple font and being baptized by one
having authority, for your mother, my great
aunt, Sally Granger Case. Wednesday I re-
ceived endowments and blessings in the Tem-
ple for and in her behalf.
	At a future time I hope to officiate in seal-
ings and further ordinances for her. The seal-
ing ordinance is the eternal order of marriage,
or marriage for eternity.
	To complete the record of my work I want
you to send me the date and place of your
mother's birth and death. We are so peculiar
as to believe that what is properly done and
recorded in the Temples of our God will be re-
corded in heaven, and these are some of the
books from which we shall be judged.
	However absurd this may appear to you,
please gratify me by sending such names and
dates of your branch of the Granger family,
who are dead, as you can gather.
	I learned in Phelps that you had a pamph-
let containing an account of the early settlers
of that town. If you would be kind enough
to send it to me I will return it if you wish.
	If there is any one interested in me, my re-
gards to them.

[Column 2]

	I write at a venture not knowing whether it
will reach you. Logan is 100 miles north of
my home. I expect to remain here only one
week more for the present. This is the nearest
Temple to my home that is finished. Six years
ago I went to St. George Temple 300 miles
south and worked for my dead four months.
	I shall feel anxious to know whether you re-
ceive this so please drop me a line at once.
	Very respectfully your cousin,
