EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I think it is high time that I express my
thanks for your very good little paper, the Ex-
ponent, which I have received since I had the
pleasure of meeting Mrs. Richards and her son
at Washington.
	I have often thought I would pen a few
words from this way down East; whether it will
encourage or discourage is not for me to say.
I am often called upon to express an opinion
in regard to the condition of the Mormons, as
it is well known that I have been with them a
short time, and have frequently expressed an
opinion, especially in regard to polygamy as I
understand the same. As you probably are
aware that women are the greatest defamers of
women, such are those I meet and present to
them the better elements of the practice of
polygamy than the surroundings throughout
the world among all other so-called religionists.
The moral principles, to all intents and pur-
poses, seem to have passed away; there are few
exceptions. We find among the clergy, priests
and deacons of all sects, as well as the general-
ity of men and women, care only for self-grati-
fication, leaving their offspring to be murdered
or picked up by the police and sent to the
foundling asylums, and the mother (whom the
laws do not recognize) men have decoyed and
destroyed. These women, girls,are driven into
suicide, or a worse life while they live; the man
is free, legally irresponsible,while the girl is an
outcast.
	Bigamy is better than seduction. Those who
make laws are those who defile them; we need
laws enacted that will hold all classes, and all
sects, religionists and non-religionists. That
all men can have one wife; if they desire more
than one they must be equally responsible to
each and all, provide for them and the chil-
dren, and all equally recognized and legiti-
mate. This is the only plan to create morality
in the world.
		Dr. C. A. Von Cort.
New York.


ERRORS.—In the R. S. Report from Mill
Creek 89, 49, should read 89 bushels and 49
pounds; and in the place of Araminta E. Han-
son and Sarah Waters, should read Amanda
E. Harmon and Sarah Walters.
	In January 1, No. 15 of the EXPONENT, in
the Auutobiography of Emily D. P. Youug, an
error occurs which we feel called upon to cor-
rect. In the second column, 5th paragraph,
the word prevented should have read presented;
also the name of Brareal should be Brazeal,
and in the first chapter the name Jackson
should have been Jackman.


