OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG. 

Continued

	"The same night the prisoners, Gilbert, Mor-
ley and Corrill, were liberated from jail that
they might confer with their brethren and try
to negotiate some measure for peace, and on
their return to jail about two o'clock Tuesday
morning in the custody of the sheriff an armed
force of six or seven men stood near the jail
and hailed them; they were answered by the
sheriff, who gave his name and the names of
his prisoners, crying, "Don't fire, don't fire; the
prisoners are in my charge," etc. They, how-
ever, fired one or two guns, when Morley and
Corrill retreated, but Gilbert stood, with sever-
al guns presented at him, firmly held by the
sheriff. Two, more desperate than the rest, at-
tempted to shoot, but one of their guns flashed
and the other missed fire. Gilbert was then
knocked down by Thomas Wilson, a grocer in
the village. About this time a few of the in-
habitants arrived and Gilbert entered jail, from
which he, with three of his brethren, were lib-
erated about sunrise, without further prosecu-
tion of the trial.
	"On the morning of the 5th of Nov. the vil-
lage began to be crowded with individuals
from different parts of the county with guns, etc.
And report said the militia had been called out
under the sanction or instigation of Lieut. Gov.
Boggs; and that one Col. Pitcher had the com-
mand. Among this militia (so called) were
embodied the most conspicuous characters of
the mob; and it may truly be said that the ap-
pearance of the ranks of the body was well
calculated to excite suspicion of their horrible
designs. Very early on the same morning
several branches of the Church received intelli-
gence that a number of their brethren were in
prison and the determination of the mob was
to kill them; and that the branch of the church
near the village of Independence was in immi-
nent danger, as the main body of the mob was
gathered at that place. In this critical situa-
tion about one hundred of the Saints from dif-
ferent branches volunteered for the protection
of their brethren near Independence and pro-
ceeded on the road toward Independence and
halted about a mile west of the village, where
they awaited further information concerning
the movements of the mob.
	"They soon learned that the prisoners were
not massacred, and that the mob had not fallen
upon the branch of the church near Indepen-
dence as was expected. They were also in-
formed that the militia had been called out for
their protection, but in this they placed but lit-
tle confidence, for the body congregated had
every appearance of a county mob; which sub-
sequent events fully verified in a majority of
said body. On application to Col. Pitcher it
was found that there was no alternative but for
the church to leave the county forthwith, and
to deliver into his hands certain men to be

[Column 2]

tried for murder, said to have been committed
by them in the battle the evening before. The
arms of the Saints were also demanded by Col.
Pitcher. Among the committee appointed to
receive the arms of the church were several of
the most unrelenting of the July committee,
who had directed in the demolishing of the
printing office, and the personal injuries of that
day; namely, Henry Chiles, Abner Staples and
Lewis Franklin, who have not ceased to pursue
the saints from the first to the last with feelings
of the most hostile kind. These unexpected
requisitions of the Col. made him appear like
one standing at the head of civil and military
law, taking a stretch beyond the constitutional
limits of our Republic.
	"Rather than have submitted to these unrea-
sonable requirements the saints would have
shed their blood in the defense of their rights,
the liberties of their country and their wives
and children; but the fear of violating law in
resisting this pretended militia, and the flatter-
ing assurances of protection and honorable
usage promised by Lieut. Gov. Boggs, in whom
they had reposed confidence up to this period.
induced them to submit, believing that he did
not tolerate so gross a violation of all law as
has been practiced in Jackson Co. But the
great change that may appear to some in the
views, designs and craft of this man, to rob an
innocent people of their arms by stratagem,and
leave more than one thousand defenceless men,
women and children to be driven from their
homes among strangers in a strange land of, to
appearances, barbarians, to seek shelter from
the stormy blasts of winter's cold embrace, is
so glaringly exposed in the sequel that all
earth and hell cannot deny that a baser knave,
a greater traitor, and a more wholesale butch-
er or murderer of mankind never went untried,
etc. 
	"The conduct of Col. Lucas and Pitcher had
long proven them to be open and avowed ene-
mies. Both of these men had their names at-
tached to the mob circular as early as July,
the object of which was to drive the saints
from Jackson Co. With assurances from the
Lieut. Gov. and others that the object was to
disarm the combatants on both sides, and that
peace would be the result, the brethren surren-
dered their arms to the number of fifty or up-
wards, and the men present who were accused
of being in the battle the evening before gave
themselves up for trial. After detaining them
one day and night on a pretended trial for
murder, in which time they were threatened,
brickbatted, etc. Col. Pitcher, after receiving
a watch from one of the prisoners to satisfy
costs, etc., took them into a cornfield and said
to them, "clear."
	"After the surrender of their arms, which
were used only in self-defense; the neighboring
tribes of Indians in times of war, let loose
upon the women and children could not have
appeared more hideous and terrific than did
the companies of ruffians who went in various
directions, well armed, on foot and on horse-
back, bursting into houses without fear, know-
ing their arms were secured, frightening dis-
tracted women with what they would do to
their husbands if they could catch them, warn-
ing women and children to flee immediately or
they would tear their houses down over their
heads and massacre them before night. At the
head of one of these companies appeared the
Rev. Isaac Mc.Coy, with a gun upon his shoul-
der, ordering the saints to leave the county


forthwith and surrender what arms they had.
Other pretended preachers of the Gospel took
a conspicuous part in the persecution, calling
the Mormons the common enemy of mankind,
and exulting in their afflictions.
	"On the 6th of Nov. women and children 
fled in every direction from the merciless mob.
One party of about one hundred and fifty
women and children fled to the prairie, where
they wandered for several days, under the
broad canopy of heaven, with about six men
to protect them. Other parties fled to the
Missouri River, and to lodgings for the night
where they could find it. One Mr. Bennett
opened his house for a night's shelter to a wan-
dering company of distressed women and chil-
dren who were fleeing to the river. During
this dispersion of the women and children, par-
ties of the mob were hunting the men, firing
upon some, tying up and whipping others, and
some they pursued upon horses several miles."


