PATTY SESSIONS.

[Continued.]
	Sister Sessions' notes in her diary are most
of them of a personal character; still we find
so many familiar names, it is pleasant to men-
tion one or more incidents connected with her
occupation in those days.
	On the 22nd of February she speaks of hav-
ing attended Sister Lightner, who had a son
born at that time. On the 7th of June Newel
Knight's wife had a daughter born. On the
14th of June her son Peregrine returned from
his mission East. On the 26th of July Orson
Spencer's wife had a daughter. September 27
she ays sthe Governor's troops were there.


[Column 1]

	We pass over the trying scenes of the people
in Nauvoo before and after the death of the
Prophet and his brother. Suffice it to say that
Sister Sessions suffered with the people in sac-
rificing her home, etc., and also mourned much
in her own breast, for she had the most pro-
found admiration and respect for him as the
Prophet of God.
	The Temple meantime was finished and dedi-
cated, and Bro. and Sister Sessions received
their endowments therein. They had assisted
in building it all in their power,and those were
days when the people were poor and persecut-
ed and had much to endure.
	The exodus from Nauvoo was an important
event, not only in the history of this Church,
but in the annals of the American nation, and
it will ever be a disgrace in the records of the
United States, where so much boast has been
made of freedom and religious liberty. We
pass on now to Sister Sessions' description of
leaving that beautiful city, and give it in her
own words:
	"Feb. 10, 1846, Nauvoo, or the City of
Joseph. My things are now packed ready for
the West, this afternoon I attended to the ac-
couchement of Mrs. Harriet Young; she had a
son. On the 11th I went to the Hall to see the
panorama of the massacre, as shown by Bro.
Dibble. 12th. This morning we bade our
children good-bye, camping at Sugar Creek,
where the exiles had made a sort of gathering
place for teams and wagons previous to start-
ing. Sister Sessions, writes on the 16th: "Pres-
ident Young came into camp this morning; it
is very cold and the wind blows hard and I
can scarcely get near the fire for smoke and we
have no tent. 17th. The brethren have begun
to organize and we go in the first hundred,sec-
ond ten, Prest. Young's company, Capt. Hol-
man."
	The weather continued severe; it was the
month of February and the people had just
left warm, comfortable homes. On the 22nd
Sister Sessions speaks of having visited Louisa
Beamen and Eliza R. Snow. On the 23rd Bro.
Sessions got canvas for a tent and Sister Ses-
sions made it herself. During the few days
they were in camp several children were born,
Sister Sessions attending some of the sisters in
their confinements.
	The last day of February the camp began to
move on slowly; the weather was inclement and
there were various difficulties and hindrances.
Sister Sessions speaks of having to drive the
team every now and then, because the cow gets
lost and her husband goes to hunt for it. On
the 16th Sister Sessions says she visited Sister
Zina D. with Sister Eliza R., and on the 22nd
she writes they cross the Shariton River; here
everybody had to double teams to get up the
bank and all the wagons had to have ropes at-
tached to them to drag them. It was at that
place she speaks of Sister Zina D. having a
son born. The weather was cold and wet and
the roads were so bad it was almost impossible
to travel.
	On the 6th of April she writes: "President
Young came into camp driving his own team,
then lighted a fire as happy as a king." That
night there came up a fearful thunder storm,
and at 2 o'clock in the morning Sister Sessions
was called up, a brother had come two miles
on horseback to fetch her, she rode back be-
hind him on the horse through the storm, the
mud and the water sometimes belly deep to the
horse; the child was born before the husband
and midwife arrived. The sister had traveled
13 miles after her sickness came on,had crossed
a creek on a log after dark, the storm had
carried the bridge away, and camped in an old
deserted log cabin. In such places as these
by the wayside many little ones were born that
are now fathers and mothers of families, though
many died as well as many of the mothers who
could not endure the hardships and fatigue.

[Column 2]

Sister Sessions' journal gives many items in re-
gard to building the bridges and difficulties
which hindered the onward progress of the
camp of Israel. Sometimes the teams would
get lost and the brethren would have to go out
hunting for them. Sister Sessions often men-
tions in her journal of dividing the little she
had with others who had still less, also of walk-
ing miles and miles, day after day, because the
teams were weak and they were short of food
for them. On the 19th there was a public
meeting, the first one called after leaving Nau-
voo.
	"Saturday, May 2. It has rained continu-
ously for six days and my bed has been wet
all the time; to-day I got my bed out to dry for
the first time." Sunday she writes it was rain-
ing hard again. Friday, 8th, she writes: "over-
hauled our wagons and sent off a saddle and
harness to sell; weighed our load, the weight
was 1,321 pounds, 551 is provisions, and we
have been dividing out ever since we started."
On the 10th she said they had a meeting and
the sacrament administered. "Thursday, 12th,
visited Sister Horne, who was sick, and Sister
Taylor, who was lame."
	The Saints at this time were stopping and
making a settlement; they fenced in some land
into a sort of big field and built some houses,
left some families there to take care of it and
put in a crop to make a sort of resting place
by the way, where those coming later might
find shelter and comfort in their journeyings.
On the 15th she writes in her journal: "Some
brethren from Nauvoo overtook us, they have
only been three weeks on the way and we have
been three months. They bring letters for
the brethren and sisters from relatives and
friends left behind."
	Monday, 25th, Sister Sessions says she was
feeling very bad and had been crying, think-
ing of her children she had left in Nauvoo, and
her mother in the State of Maine, and many
little things she had to contend with in her
travels, and Sister Eliza R. Snow and Sister
Markham came up to her wagon and it gave
her great joy to see these sisters. "28th, visited
Eliza Snow and Parley Pratt's folks. 29th.
Sister Rockwood gave me some tallow and I
run seventeen candles, thought it quite a pres-
ent. Lucy Walker arrived here to-day from
Nauvoo. Sunday, 31st, I was called to Parley
Pratt's, Mary had a son."
	At this time the Saints had reached another
stopping place, which was named Mt. Pisgah,
and Sister Sessions on leaving that place says:
"We leave many good brethren and sisters
here, Sisters Horne, E. R. Snow, Zina D. and
Emily P—— and many more. Wednesday,
3rd, she says, "Sister Horne sent on for me, I
went back to Mt. Pisgah and attended to her;
she had a daughter. I rode on horseback
seven miles each way." So she writes from
day to day how they journeyed on, and of the
various hindrances and stopping to make
bridges, etc. On the 28th of June a meeting
was held on the banks of the Missouri river or
the "Bluffs" near, where Dr. Willard Richards
preached to the people and spoke very feeling-
ly of its being the anniversary two years since
of his coming into Nauvoo with the bodies of
the Prophet Joseph and Hyrum. "Wednes-
day, July 1st, Brigham Young has moved
down to the river, the boat is done ready to
cross."


