AUTOBIOGRAPHY
		OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.
				Continued.
	“On the 5th Elders Phelps, Gilbert and Mc-
Lellin went to Clay Co. and made affidavit
similar to the foregoing sketch and forwarded
the same to the Governor by express; and the
Governor immediately upon the reception
thereof ordered a court of inquiry to be held
in Clay Co. for the purpose of investigating the
whole affair, and meting out justice to all: but
alas!  corruption, wickedness and power have
left the wretches unwhipped of justice, and in-
nocence mourns in tears unwiped.
	“Thursday, Nov. 7th.  The shores began to
be lined on both sides of the ferry with men,
women and children, goods, wagons, boxes,
chests, provisions, etc., while the ferrymen
were busily employed crossing them over. And
when night again closed upon the Saints the
wilderness had much the appearance of a camp
meeting.  Hundreds of people were seen in
every direction, some in tents, and some in the
open air around their fires while the rain de-
scended in torrents.  Husbands were inquiring
for their wives and women for their husbands,
parents for children and children for parents.
Some had the good fortune to escape with
their family, household goods and some provis-
ions, while others knew not the fate of their
friends and had lost all their goods.  The scene
was indescribable, and would have melted the
heart of any people upon earth, except the
blind oppressor and ignorant bigot.  Next day
the company increased, and they were chiefly
engaged in felling small cottonwood trees and
erecting temporary cabins, so that when night
came on they had the appearance of a village
of wigwams, and the night being clear the occu-
pants began to enjoy some degree of comfort.
	“Lieut. Gov. Boggs presented a curious ex-
ternal appearance, yet he was evidently the
head and front of the mob;  for, as may easily
be seen by what follows, no important move
was made without his sanction.  He certainly
was the secret spring of the 20th and 23rd of
July, and, as will appear in the sequel, by his
authority the mob was moulded into militia to
affect by stratagem what he knew as well as
his hellish host could not he done by legal
force.  As Lieut. Gov. he had only to wink
and the mob went from maltreatment to mur-
der.  The horrid calculations of this second
Nero were often developed in away that could
not be mistaken.
	“Early in the morning of the 5th, say at one
o’clock a.m., he came to Phelps, Gilbert and
Partridge and told them to flee for their lives.
Now, unless he had given the order so to do no
one would have attempted to murder after the
Church had agreed to go away.  His con-
science vacillated on its rocky moorings and
gave the secret alarm to those men.  The
Saints who fled took refuge in the neighboring
counties, mostly in Clay Co., which received
them with some degree of kindness.  Those
who fled to the county of Van Buren were
again driven and compelled to flee, and those
who fled to Lafayette Co. were soon expelled,
or the most of them, and had to move wherever
they could find protection."
	It was in Nov., 1833, that my father moved
his family into Clay Co.	We crossed the Mis-
souri river at a ferry not far from Liberty
landing.  Most of father’s provisions were left
in his cellar, not being able to move it on such
short notice.  And thus two years of my child-
hood were spent in Jackson Co., Missouri.  The
brethren cut down, small trees and laid them
up cob fashion, and when they were five or six
feet high they stretched a tent over the top for
a roof.  And such was my home on the bank
of the Missouri river, in the month of Nov.,
1833. I was then in my tenth year.
	On the 13th of Nov., between three and
four o'clock in the morning the camp was
aroused from their slumbers to witness the
beautiful and grand sight of the falling stars.
The Saints beheld it with hearts of rejoicing.
Being persecuted and cast out from their homes
for the sake of their religion, and knowing it
to be one of the signs of the last days spoken
of by the Prophets, it was calculated to cheer
and comfort their hearts and strengthen their
faith in the Gospel, notwithstanding they were
in deep affliction.  Although I was but a child
at the time, I looked upon the scene with de-
light.  The heavens seemed wrapped in splen-
did fireworks.  The appearance was beautiful
and grand beyond description.
	I think it was several weeks that we were
camped on the bank of the river.  The wea-
ther began to be quite cold—too cold to remain
in tents with any degree of comfort.  The
Saints found homes as best they could, search-
ing out and making habitable all the old shan-
ties and hovels that could be found, endeavor-
ing to keep as near together as possible.  Father
and Elder John Corrill procured an old log
cabin that had been used for a stable and
cleaned it up as best they could  and moved
their families in.  There was one large room,
and a leanto, but that was not of much use, as
the floor was nearly all torn up, and the rats
and rattlesnakes were too thick for comfort.
There was a large fireplace in the one habita-
ble room, and blankets were hung up a few
feet back from the fire and the two families,
fifteen or sixteen in number, were gathered in-
side of those blankets to keep from freezing,
for the weather was extremely cold, so cold
that the ink would freeze in the pen as father
sat writing close to the fire.  Elder Corrill’s
family took one side of the fireplace and we
took the other.  Our beds were in the back
part of the room, which was cold enough for
the polar regions.
	The next summer the Saints procured a
small cabin in a paupau grove for a school and
one of our Mormon girls was installed as teach-
er.  And notwithstanding our deplorable cir-
cumstances I spent many happy hours with the
school children in that beautiful grove at hours
of intermission, swinging on the long wild
grapevine that hung from the tall trees, or
tearing down some of the long and slender
ones to jump-the-rope with.  We built houses
of the branches of the paupau tree, the wood
being very brittle we had no difficulty in
breaking as many as we wanted.  The fruit of
the paupau is about as long as the banana, and
about four or five times as large around, with a
smooth skin.  The inside, when ripe, is a yel-
low, thick, creamy pulp, with- large flat seeds,
and to the taste is very sweet; but oh ! such a
sweet lone taste will generally suffice, nobody
wants to taste it twice.
     Some of the old citizens of Clay Co. sent
their children to our school and of course were
better dressed than the Mormon children,
which caused them to sometimes sneer and
make fun of our shabby clothes, but generally
we got along very well.  The Saints were very
poor, and I sometimes wonder how they pro-
vided for their families the necessaries of life.
My father being Bishop made the times much
harder for him, for he not only had his family
to provide for, but he had the poor to look
after, and provide for their comfort also.
	I sometimes think that Bishops in these
days know but little what the office of Bishop
was in the early days of the Church—in the
days of its poverty and inexperience.  Some-
times the poor would grumble and complain
because there was not more for them.	 To
raise money in those days was almost like
wringing water out of a dry sponge.

[column 3]
A GIRL AUTHOR!
	Ellen Gibson was born in Winchendon, May
8,1821. When five years of age her parents
removed to Ringe.  She possessed an active,
nervous temperament; learned readily and was
at the head of her class.  Her first published
articles appeared in the miscellaneous depart-
ment of the “Boston Cultivator,’' to which she
contributed for several years.  She began school
teaching at the age of fifteen and met with de-
cided success in that vocation.  In 1848 she
was compelled to relinquish teaching on ac-
count of ill health.
	When the War of the Rebellion broke out
she was in the west lecturing; and she became
enthusiastic with the patriotic spirit, and gave
her services in raising soldiers and societies
under the patronage of Gov. Salmon of Wis-
consin.
	During the first N. W. Sanitary Fair held
in Chicago she sold thirteen hundred copies of
a little book she wrote, entitled “The Soldiers'
Gift,”or“The Dangers and Temptationsof Army
Life; giving the proceeds to the fair.' In 1864
she was recommended as chaplain by Governor
Lewis and General Fairfield of Wisconsin, and
assigned to the First Wis. Vol. Artillery, Pres-
dent Lincoln gave her his testimonial: “This
lady would be appointed chaplain of the First
Wis. Heavy Artillery, only she is a woman.
The President has not legally any thing to do
with such a question, but has no objection to
her appointment.	      A. LINCOLN.” Dated Nov.
10,1865.
	She finally served without being mustered
in.  She was known during the war as Ellen
E. I. Hobart.  She now resides in Barre, Mass.
From the New England Historical Genea-
logical (Society) Register. Voi. XXXYII, p.
392,


