	FOR THE YOUNG LADIES’ M. I. ASSOCIA-
				  TIONS
				  
	What is the present but the connecting link
between the past and the future?  Through 
and during the present alone we can make the
past improve the future.  All the improve-
ments of civilization have come to us from the
knowledge and proper criticism of the events
of the past, by right-minded and ambitious
men and women.  But for them and their la-
bors the world of to-day would be groaning un-
der the chains of cruel barbarism.  As great
as between noonday and midnight gloom is the
contrast between the Constitutional Govern-
ment of the United States of America and
that of the most enlightened nations of two
centuries ago.  The same can be said of arts
and sciences; we do not hear of a cathedral be-
ing a century in  process of erection.  In less
than a century the improvements, inventions
in all arts and sciences have been multitudin-
our; but how and by whom have they been
brought about?  Not by the drones, who said:
"Let us eat, drink and be merry, for to-morrow
we die.”  No, but by men and women whose
education at the school of endurance, hard-
ship and abnegation, has resulted in a stern
sense of duty to future generations, and an un-
quenchable thirst for knowledge. “Knowledge
is power!”  What a theme for reflection! But
I am addressing myself to the young ladies of
Utah on the subject of the present, and the du-
ties and privileges it holds out to them.
	I hope none of my young sisters are igno-
rant of the fact that it is their privilege and duty
to become wives and mothers, and thould there-
fore spend their youth in qualifying themselves
for these important callings.  Do they think
of these things as they meet in their Improve-
ment Associations?  Do they suggest means to
check evil and promote good?  The physical,
intellectual and moral improvement of the

[Column 2]
girls of to-day means the improvement of the
nation in the next generation.
	I do not think that the real object in organ-
izing these associations for young ladies is ever
mentioned in some places, and seldom referred
to in others.  They are for improvement, say
some.  Yes, so are the day schools and Sunday
Schools; but why are young ladies organized
into societies of their own?  That they may
exchange thoughts, make suggestions as to the
best means of retaining their health and vigor,
how to cultivate good manners without affec-
tation, and how to store their minds with use-
ful knowledge without neglecting the most
practical duties of house-wifery. 
	Do not deem me harsh if I make bold to re-
mind you that the children of a sulky, weak-
minded, self-indulgent mother can scarcely be
expected to become fine, intelligent, fearless
men and women.
	Young ladies, do you realize that the work
of regeneration and reform, for the next half
century, depends a great deal upon you, indi-
vidually and collectively?  It is so whether
you realize it or not.  It is for you to decide
whether the men and women of the near future
shall be of the fine physique, sturdy valor and
sterling integrity, or frivolous, slothful and ef-
feminate.  The past is open to you to read and
reflect upon; tha present is the field for you to
labor in, and the future anxiously awaits the
result.
