	EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MRS JOHN T. CAINE and Mrs. Franklin S.
Richards attended the recent Convention of
the National Woman’s Suffrage Association in
Washington.
	THE Secretaries of the Relief Society, Y. L.
M I. A. and P. A. should bear in mind that the
semi-annual reports will soon be wanted now
for the Stake Conference.
	MRS. M. O. Kelting of California writes—
, 'Continue to sen[-] your dear little messenger to
my address. I find it like a little white-winged
comforter in my lonely moments and I pray that
[-]he angels of heaven and earth may continue to
bless and encourage the EXPONENT.”
	WE have had the pleasure of seeing a bust of
President Brigham Young, executed by one of
Utah’s young sculptors, Harry B[-]own of Logan.
It is life-like indeed. The peculiar expression
of the mouth and nose, and indeed of every fea

[Column 2]
ture; the very pose of the face is perfect, and the
smallest detail is perceptible. We congratulate
Bro. Brown on the wonderful success he has
made in developing his subject. It is an encour-
aging fact that Utah is making some considera-
ble progress in the direction of art cultivation.
	WE have received a sample copy of a new
magazine, entitled "Babyhood,”   edited by
Marion Harland, which is sufficient in itself to
recommend it. But as we have examined and
read it carefully we feel sure it is a work of mer
it and one that will assuredly recommend itself
to all who read it. It gives pleasant and happy
advice to mothers in reference to little ones and
makes timely and appropriate suggestions on
the topics connected with babyhood and mother-
hood.  Price:$1.50 per year, published in New
York City.
	THE news of the musical success of young
Edwards of Willard City, in competition
with so many professionals and compos-
ers from various parts of the world, is
quite startling. It must be a source of im 
mense satisfaction to the youthful author, and
It certainly should be considered an honor to all
who love Utah and are proud of her sons to
know that there is so much real musical talent
beginning to be developed, It proves the falsity
of the statements that Mormoniam chokes out
progress in every direction.
	WE have received from Washington the
“Brief and Argument” of George G. Vess,
Wayne Mac Veagh, Franklin S. Richards and
Charles W. Bennett for Appellant, Mary Ann
M. Pratt vs. Alexander Ramsey, A. S.  Paddock,
G. L Godfrey, A B. Carleton, J. R. Pettigrew,
E D. Hoge and John S. Lindsay, Appellees.
Supreme Court of the United States, October
Term, 1884. We have not yet had time to read
it carefully but from a casual perusal judge it to
be a very able and conclusive argument in favor
of the lady. It would be well for the sisters to
take pains to read up on theese subjects that are
of such importance to this people, that they
maybe thoroughly posted in matters pertaining
to the possession of the franchise, also property
rights, etc
	WE have also received in pamphlet form the
"Legislative Commission Scheme," the title of
the address of Hon. John T. Caine, delivered
in the People’s Mass Meeting, held in the Thea-
tre Nov. 3, 1884. It is a well-written and logi-
cal statement of facts, and eve y woman inter
ested in the condition of affairs should read it
carefully.
	A very pleasant ladies' tea party was given
at the Davereux House on Thursday, Jan 29,
by Mrs. Priscilla Jennings, who is a most enter-
taining and hospitable hostess. There were be-
tween thirty and forty la[--]es present, most of
them widows and missionaries’ wives. The
supper was very handsomely served, the table
being very beautifully decorated with fragrant
flowers. Mr and Mrs. Jennings as host and
hostess cannot be excelled. The afternoon and
evening were spent by the ladles in social con-
versation, and every one seemed to intensely
enjoy the visit. Davereux House is a beautiful
modern mansion, and with its large, and ele-
gant parlors, commodious dining apartments,
and handsome and complete library, conserva-
tory and other luxuries, possesses all the advan-
tages of a refined and luxurious home. We
heartily wish its inmates long life and health
to enjoy the blessings with which they are sur-
rounded.
	SISTER ZINA D. H. YOUNG'S birthday was
yesterady, Ja[-]. 31st. She was sixty-four years
of age. We congratulate her and wish her
many happy returns of the day and hope she
may enjoy life as fully and completely as she can
wish. Our readers are doubtless aware that she


has for some time past been officiating in the
Logan Temple. She expects shortly to take a
trip to Cascade Falls, Oregon, where her son,
Lieut. Willard Young, is at present stationed.
	SISTER ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH'S birthday
passed off very quietly. She received those who
called to congratulate her in her parlor at the
Lion House. The honored lady has now reached
the advanced age of 81 years. Her health is ex-
cellent, her faculties unimpaired; indeed her
memory seems as bright and perfect as ever,and
her mind as clear and active as it ever has been;
she still continues to write and works more
hours in the day than most young people. We
congratulate Sister Eliza on reaching her eighty-
first year and hope she may have many happy
returns of the day, with health and prosperity
and happiness.


