EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In honor of Prest. E. G. MacDonald on her
54th birthday, her numerous friends inaugura-
ted a party, which proved a perfect success in
every respect, the lady not having the least
idea of the surprise awaiting her. When she
saw her domicile invaded by such a number,
loaded down with good things,she accepted the
situation and welcomed them with a hearty
good will, which made everybody feel at home.
After some pleasant conversation and a birth-
day address by one of the ladies of the party,
supper was served, and the tables fairly groaned
beneath the good things that were loaded upon
them; 47 persons partook of supper, and, as it
was remarked, it seemed like the "widow's
cruse" of oil, there was still plenty when all
was served.
	The evening passed pleasantly away; Bro.
Chas. Robison made a brief speech, expressing
a wish that the dark clouds that were now hov-
ering over her and us might soon vanish away
before the effulgent rays of the coming day,
and wished her "many happy returns of the
day," each one happier than the last. Sister
E. G. MacDonald expressed her gratitude to
the brethren and sisters for the kindly feelings
that had prompted their friendly greeting.
	There was but one thing to mar the pleasure,
of the evening, and that was the absence of
her husband, who was absent on a trip through 
Southern Arizona, laboring for the interest of
the mission, for which he is laboring incessant-
ly.
	Our Relief Society is in good working or-
der, as are also the different associations. Our
Society Hall is so far completed that social
parties and entertainments are being held in it.
Although dark clouds seem to be gathering,
and the prospects are that we shall have our
share of persecution; still, there is a deep abid-
ing faith with the people that the Lord lives
and rules and will overrule every thing for the
best if we obey His laws in every respect.
	God bless you and all connected with the
Exponent, which is carrying gratification and
pleasure into so many households, is the con-
stant prayer of your friend and sister in the
Gospel,	S. A. P.
	Mesa City, Arizona.


