EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The 16th annual convention of the National
Woman's Association has just terminated, and
in the main has been a success, though there
was imminent danger of disruption, to an ex-
tent, at least for a time. The convention was
held in the "Church of our Father"—Universal-
ist. The attendance throughout does not seem
to have bean as large generally as the year pre-
ceding—that is, attendance of people not actual-
ly members. This decrease, however, is proba-
bly due to the fact that the place ot meeting was
not so centrally located as is Lincoln Hall,
where the meetings had been held heretofore,
and could not be reached within several squares
by the street cars, the cold weather also may
have had the effect of lessening the number
present. However, in the evenings there were
generally as many as could comfortably be
seated, and the meetings were spirited and cal-
culated in the main to awaken a greater interest
in the movement and to furnish convincing
proof of its justice to those who may still enter-
tain doubts on the subject.
	Six sessions were held, two each day, begin-
ning at 2:30 and 7:30 p.m.,beginning on Tuesday
and continuing through Wednesday and Thurs-
day. The afternoons were devoted to reports
speeches and addresses; the evenings to ad-
dresses only, and while some were inclined to
weakness, there were many noticeable for depth
and breadth.
	The first meeting of the convention was
opened by invocation by Rev. Alex. Kent. On
the stand, platform or pulpit were seated Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, Matilda
J. Gage, Ellen S.Fray, Caroline G. Rogers, El-
len H. Sheldon, Lillie D. Blake, and others,
while close about the platform were ladies iden-
tified with the movement who were more or less
prominent. The opening address was delivered
by Mrs. Stanton. She spoke in congratulatory
terms of the assemblage and the progress of the
work, ard said if men were not capable of mak-
ing cities and towns safe for youths to live in,
then they had better give way and see what
women could do. The women of the Republic

[Column 2]

had not done their duty so far in not taking
pains to see that their husbands were interested
in the subject and had formed an opinion on it.
Mrs. Stanton asked them to make up for lost
time. The members of each profession were
willing that woman should enter all others but
their own, though she had shown her ability to
shine in them all.
	Lillie D Blake gave a report of the work in
New York and made some extended remarks.
The way to stop opposition was to kill off those
who opposed the work. She told how she and
others had worked to defeat the election of as-
semblymen who had opposed the suffrage move-
ment as members of the State Legislature; and
called attention to the success with which their
efforts had met in killing these men politically
who worked against them and condemned them
to that death from which there was no res-
urrection. Every woman, she said, could
control at least one vote. Borne were
married, others would, she hoped, be
so soon, but if no such influences were
possible, then she should go to her groceryman
and others with whom she dealt and see that
he was in favor of the movement and would
support it with his vote, or she would give her
custom to some one that was in sympathy with
the cause.
	Sarah M. Perkins made a very able report of
the work done in Ohio, and she told graphically
how the Woman's Christian Temperance Union
had by a prayer been brought to espouse the
cause of woman's suffrage and make that cause its
own ,for the reason that the Temperance could
never hope to accomplish any permanent good
until woman, by the ballot, could say that the
dram shop 'round the corner, which was des-
troying her darling boys, should be forever
closed.
	Mrs. Perkins was followed by Frances E. Barr,
who reported work in Connecticut. The report,
while mainly encouaaging, was not as satifac-
tory as could be desired.
	Mrs. Harriet Shattuck of Malden, Mass.,gave
an address on "What Woman's Suffrage
Means." She went on to show that responsi-
bilities multiplied upon men and they were the
better for it, and that year by year duty upon
duty have been added to women and she had
ever qualified herself for it. The whole subject
was centred in the word—responsibility, and
while women already had many she wanted one
more—that of suffrage. She ridiculed, and ably
too, the idea that disqualification should be in-
sisted upon because of sex, and argued such a
conclusion to a logical conclusion, showing the
utter absurdity of such a position.
	Resolutions were then read, and it was stated
they would be open for discussion on the follow-
ing afternoon.


