CORRESPONDENCE.

	SNOWVILLE, Box Elder Co., Utah.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	As I have never read anything in your val-
uable columns about Snowville (which I will
state for explanation is named in honor of our
beloved Apostle Lorenzo Snow, and not be-
cause we have any more snow than you do in
Salt Lake City), I thought I would drop you a
few lines concerning our ward. We are, the
most of us, striving to be Latter-day Saints.
Our Relief Society is in full force, with Sister
Mary Goodliffe as Prest. They look after the
poor in purse and spirit, and the sick also;
they have lots of wheat on hand, in fact the
Bishop says they are the richest people in the
ward, and if you want anything done without
fail, call on the Relief Society, and it is done.
	The Y. M. and Y. L. M. I. A. are in a most
flourishing condition; they meet conjointly
every Sunday evening. This is the Bishop's
plan to keep the young folks together, and a
most admirable and successful one it has


proved. Their meetings are conducted similar
to those in Salt Lake City; every one, without
exception, tries to do the best he can when
called upon. I have never yet heard but one
person ask to be excused when called upon to
speak.
	The Primary Association is not behind, but
is doing its best. The Presidency, M. A. Green,
E. Ballam and S. Hurd. are alive to their du-
ties and interested in the work, striving to do
all they can to teach, instruct and interest the
children. Truly the Primary work is a great
and glorious one.
	We have a nice Sunday School, which would
compare favorably with any, I think. Of
course we have many obstacles and drawbacks
which is consistent and common to all young
settlements.
	Last, but not least, we have a Bishop (A.
Goodliffe) and counsel that are up to the mark.
They are awake and doing. We also have
that element known as "Liberalism," which is
encouraging, though trying, and a cause many
times of sorrow to the true Latter-day Saint;
but the Lord has said that there must needs be
opposition, it is necessary to taste the bitter to
know and appreciate the sweet, and where the
work of God is, there is opposition, or Satan's
work, also.
	Before closing I will tell you about a sur-
prise gotten up on the Prest. of the Y. L. M.
I. A., Sister E. E. Goodliffe, it was her birth-
day and a few relatives, etc., had been invited 
to supper, when lo and behold! here comes a
whole party and literally stormed the place,
taking our beloved President at a decided dis-
advantage. It was indeed a most enjoyable
affair. There were speeches, in which one and
all bore testimony to the goodness and worth
of Sister Goodliffe, songs, dancing and lots of
pies and cakes, etc.
	Your paper is a welcome guest in our homes
and we say long life to "Aunt Em" and her
able staff and God bless you.
	Secretary.


[Column 1]
	All the subscribers of the WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT in the city will please send their address,
name, street and number, to this Office, in or-
der to have their papers delivered by the mail
carriers.

	The Referee, an illustrated comic paper, has
been started in this city. It is always full of
smart and funny things, at least the three
copies we have received were. The editors are
Messrs. J. Rich and S. Kenner, both celebrated
for their originality and sarcasms, puns, etc.
If the Referee does not succeed, it will not be
for lack of talented and witty editors.

[Column 2]
	ES	LISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
		Z.    C.   M.    I.
	SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTER AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE, 
		ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
		MENTS,
		CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
