WATCHERS, WHAT OF THE HOUR?

	"The Lord, He is God!" for myself I acknowll
edge no other power; He has His agents—oppos-
ing elements there must be—and we see them
at work, The Savior said: "It must needs be
that offences come, but woe be to them by whom
they come." Some rejoice to do evil, rejoice to
afflict the righteous; such are ready instruments
for the offences named—hence we see there is no
injustice, for all may choose their own path,
therefore in the day of judgment they will stand
with their hand on their mouth, they preferred
works of darkness rather than light, therefore
they have their reward; their own conscience-
will be their judge.
	We live in a day and an hour when the most
light-minded must have their moments of seri-

[Column 2]

ous thought, I refer to L. D. S. especially, though
the thinking minds of the world are also at this
time posed to their full tension; but we have
done with the world. The Church and King-
dom of God is our world, and in that is full oc-
cupation for a true L. D. S.—first to look to
themselves, that their own door step is clean
and their own hearth bright and shining, made
so by a good heart, an eye single and a con
science void of offense towards God and towards
His creatures. The path of Saints was never
in any age a path of roses, only such as
the sunshine of the Holy Spirit can cause them
to produce and strew day by day on their indi-
vidual pathway, and this they have the tact and
the power to accomplish so that it is the warmth
and the sunshine and the fragrance of the same
that beautifies their life and makes even the
shades to be illumined. One would imagine such
a people would be beloved, would be admired as
worthy of imitation, especially by those calling
themselves Christians. Strange, passing strange
that such should excite "envy, hatred, malice
and all uncharitableness" in these "orthodox
Christians."
	Stay—are such Christians? Let me take the
New Testament and see how Christ organized
His church on earth during His brief mission on
the same. I read and realize that modern
Christianity is a libel, almost a burlesque; yea,
quite a burlesque, when I consider it in all its
phases, a mere ghost of that pure, simple, un-
adorned church of which Christ laid the foun-
dation, and then in His own person established
its living principles. All who read its records
intelligently must know that "comparisons are
odious" in such a review.
	The problem of the 19th century is simply a
restoration of this identical church, with all its
rights and ordinances and endowments estab-
lished again upon the earth by the Lord Him-
self calling out a youth as His Prophet, and
teaching him by His own mouth and Spirit how
again to re-organize His church upon the earth.
This God's truth was preached—thousaads glad
ly embraced it, souls that were hungering and
thirsting for the word of God. But there and
then rose up the opposing spirits and drove out
the embryo church again into the wilderness.
They traveled to a desert of sagebrush far away
from civilization and there they laid the founda-
tion of a city and of a territory without gold or-
silver, simply by the "sweat of the brow" and
the intelligence that God had freely given them;
and by the aid of His Spirit upholding them for
years they continued building homes, a place of
worship, and it was for years a home of saints,
as far as human nature can attain that title.
No saloon, no house of ill-fame, no place for sin
to establish itself contaminated its soil; peace,
union and sobriety reigned within its borders,
it grew, it increased in knowledge, wisdom and
understanding; missionaries were sent abroad;
the honest poor, and some rich rushed "as doves
to the window." Utah became a name—God
smiled upon her and blest the labors of the
honest, who left their homes like Abraham of
old to serve and worship Him exactly and pre-
cisely as the Savior laid down while on His
brief mission to this earth.
	Thousands from every land and clime flocked
to the standard erected in the mountains, ac-
cording to ancient prophecy. Utah, the one
word floating upon her banner; when behold
they were invaded by those who smelt gold and
riches of all kinds in this wonderful Utah. Mer-
chants rushed in with their merchandise of
every kind; soon they established the saloon as
a necessary appendage, and soon, behold the
demi monde flaunting through our streets, and
then came the railroad with its appendages, and
the very face of nature was changed—and so

[Column 3]

they get possession of homes, the land of which
had been prepared by the L. D. S., and instead
of stretching out the hand of neighborhood they
from the first laid plans to "oust the Mormons"
and usurp their homes and their possessions; and
not only so, but abuse, malign, traduce, and
even besiege Congress to raise the iron hand
upon this industrious, faithful, loyal people, and
strip them of those rights the glorious Constitu-
tion guarantees to all beneath her flag. Why is
this? The innocent, honest-minded ask. Read
the history of Christ while on the earth and
you will see "history repeats itself." Yet it
gives a solution nothing else can give of the
wherefore and why that this people are now so
cruelly persecuted. If infidels require a test of
the truth of ancient Scripture, let them read the
history of the latter day work—Christ's Church
re-established upon the earth, and their minds
must be opaque indeed if they do not see history
repeating itself, even like the voice of revelation.
Like those of old the saints cry out, Lord, how
long? Give us strength to endure to the end.
