THIRD DAY.
	A fair sized audience assembled on the after-
noon of the third day. Miss Anthony again
called the meeting to order, calling attention
to the necessity of liberal contributions to ena-
ble the work successfully to be carried on, and
she was followed by a male member named E.
M. Davis, who made himself conspicuous all
through the convention for very bad taste. He
made a very painful attempt to coax and argue
those present into helping "us" in "our" work.
	Dr. Harriet B. Chapin, in a wavering voice,
reported the condition of the suffrage work at
Albany, New York.
	Mrs. Shattuck of Boston, a very womanly 
appearing and acting lady, reported the condi-
tion of the woman's movement in Massachu-

[Column 2]

setts. She read some very well compiled and
suggestive statistics, showing the virtue of
women in her state and the portion her sex
plays in the industrial and professional pursuits
of that State. Mrs. Shattuck is a very pleas-
ing, broad and reflective speaker, and must
prove a power in the cause because of her ap-
parent earnestness and conservativeness.
	Anna L. Diggs read a well-written, telling
and humorous account of the suffrage work in
Kansas. She was very attentively listened to.
	One of the most eloquent and powerful ap-
peals and addresses made was that of Mrs.
Clara B. Colby, Editor of the Woman's Tri-
bune, of Nebraska. She appealed to men to
make the cause of woman's emancipation their
own, as they had the cause of free government
in the early history of the nation, as they had
for the abolition of slavery. She told the early
Hebraic legend of creation: "Lillith was the
goddess and Adam the God; that they reigned
over all equally till Adam wished all control,
and Lillith, rather than npt enjoy peace, left
the garden. Then an Eve, subordinate and a
helpmeet only was created," and it was a fact
worthy of note that until this inferior and sub-
ordinate woman was made, no evil came into
the world. She wished Lillith to return, to
reign equal, and thus bring back the era when
sin should be unknown.
	Mrs. D. Stockman of Chicago made a report
for Illinois, while Rev. Olympia Brown report-
ed the movement in Wisconsin so active that
they had held two annual meetings within the
year in that State.
	The afternoon session closed by Mrs. Stan-
ton stating that it had been decided to lay the
last resolution over for one year, as the discus-
sion seemed to have given rise to some feeling;
but she wished women to read the Scriptu es
and take notes, so as to determine intelligently
whether there was not a grave discrepancy be-
tween the position assigned them by the minis-
ters and creeds of orthodox churches, and that
contemplated in the first two chapters of Gene-
sis and in the Gospel of Christ.
	In the evenng Miss Anthony made an ad-
dress, hitting hard those who were opposing
the work in Congress, while Mrs. Stanton
stated that in the forthcoming volume of the
"History of Woman Suffrage" she would paint
these men so black that their own sons and
daughters would be ashamed of them. Miss
Anthony gave some interesting points in her
early efforts in behalf of the cause. She would
not tell just now how many years ago that was
—but if she lived to be as old as Methusalem,
"whose oldest daughter I am said to be, I will
still advocate woman suffrage."
	Mrs. Laura deForce Gordon then delivered
an address on "Is our Civilization Civilized?"
Ar uing like a lawyer, as she is, decidedly in
the negative. The loss of courtesy by men
would be more than compensated by the fact
that she, would then be the equal of man. She
said she would rather suffer any amount of in-
dignity than that little jackanapes should be
able to insult her with the remark, "you can't
vote."
	Mrs. Stanton read a short closing address. It
was very important that the government should
be kept secular, and equally so that woman
should know the danger of ecclesiastical con-
trol, as they were so soon going to vote. She
wanted women to remember that under the
old Roman law women had far more liberty
than since the Canon law put its withering
hands upon their civil rights. Law and eccle-
siastical students read the degrading statements
and then preached or practiced on the inspir-
ation of the directions given to the Corinthians
or Phillipians. She demanded an exporgated
edition of Blackstone and the Canon laws, as
well as of the Bible. All the revisions of men
had been failures, and she wanted the next to 
be made by women.

[Column 3]

	The convention was then declared ad-
journed.

