SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
(Continued.)
	My husband wrote: “Wednesday, the 21st,
fine day—this morning, by request of Brother
Kimball, went down to the ferry, six miles
from here; found them just crossing the river.
Little John Smith and myself drove up the
loose cattle and arrived at the camp a little
after dusk.  The family all got here soon
after.”
	“Bishop Whitney,Bros. Woolley and Wright
arrived from St. Louis on the 26th.  The goods
—amounting to about sixty tons—had to be
brought up from St. Joseph by teams.  Brother
Woolley returned to take the charge.  Eight
teams were started the 2nd day of Nov.”
	On the 6th Horace speaks of Wm. Clayton
and George Grant “returning from the village
on the other side of the river, whither they
went on business for the Church.  Bro. Clay-
ton informs me that he never saw such a
swindling operation as that practised on the
Indians down there—they received their pay-
ments in money and were then followed by a gang
of sharpers, who watching their opportunity,get
them drunk and then gamble with them and
cheat them out of all their money.”
	Sunday, the 8th, he mentions the “Omahaws
going through our settlement, their horses
loaded down with tent poles, baggage, etc., on
their way north to the Grand Hunt."
     Saturday, the 7th,he speaks of being engaged
in roofing and sodding the house, into one
room of which we moved that evening. He
says: “We congratulate ourselves consider-
ably upon being able to live in a house again,
as we have got throughly tired of living in
tents.” We continued to use our wagon as a
bedroom till the 30th, when it was wanted to
bring produce from the country.  By this time
quite a number of houses had been put up.
This one contained a number of rooms, built
in a row, between my father’s and Bishop
Whitney’s main buildings.  One room was
used by father for storing provisions, etc.  My
sister-in-law, Sarah, with whom we had tented
so long, occupied a room adjoining ours, though
it was not yet ready for her to move into.  We
lived in ours one month before it was entirely
finished.
	On the 8th of Dec. Horace mentions being
engaged “mudding up his room,” his brother
Orson assisting him.  This, like the majority
of the houses, was covered with sod, and the
chimneys were built of the same.  Each room
had one door and a window with four panes
of glass, but no floor.  I was rather unfortun-
ate, first,in having a chimney that seldom drew
the smoke, particularly when the weather was
cold enough to need a roaring fire in front of
a good sized back-log, and then being prostrat-
ed on my bed from the 23rd of January till
along in March; it gave me the opportunity of
cultivating the qualities of patience and calm-
ness under new vicissitudes, from which there
was no alternative, only to endure them with
as good grace as possible, for many of the
Saints were still without a roof to cover them;
but I shed many unbidden tears during the
smoking period, lasting one month, when find-
ing that our fireplace built of sod was about to
tumble down,they had some brick brought from
the rubbish of the Old Fort of Council Bluffs,
and built a new one.  Thus ended our trouble
from that quarter.  We had been accustomed
to trials from smoke, heat, wind and dust, and
many other things of an unpleasant nature
during camp life, and we took considerable
pleasure in fixing up our little homes.  Our
floors we managed to cover with canvas or
pieces of carpeting, which had outlived the
storms and the wear and tear while journey-
ing from the States. We made curtains serve
as partitions to divide the bedrooms, reposi-
tories, etc., from the kitchen.  Most of our
furniture we had made to order—such as cup-
boards and bedsteads—they being attached to
the house, also tables, chairs and stools, and an
occasional rocking chair, relics of other days,
graced our ingleside.  I was fortunate in hav-
ing one of the latter, which I had brought
with me.  And here I received my “setting
out” in crockery ware, etc, which, though not
very extensive, was deemed quite immense for
those times.  Our marriage taking place just
as we were about starting from the states, the
presenting of these needful articles was post-
poned till a future time, expecting, as we then
did, to cross the Rocky Mountains before build-
ing houses to inhabit. Two or three pieces I
have still, which I keep in memory of the vari-
ous and peculiar scenes through which we have
passed together; as well as the loved ones who
have passed away.
	The larger houses were generally shingled
and had brick chimneys and puncheon floors,
with a six lighted window to each room.
Father’s largest house contained four good
sized rooms on the ground, and two up stairs.
My bro. William and family lived in one room,
my mother, her four little boys, three or four
young men and two young women who had
been adopted, and two of father’s wives occu-
pied the rest; the women assisting in sewing
and housekeeping.  My mother bad been for
some time in very feeble health, and her
youngest child, who was so sick with whooping
cough, when starting from Nauvoo, was taken
care of by Mary Ann Sheflin, one of father’s
wives who lived in the row.  She, having
charge of him most of the way on the journey,
she loved him as though he had been her own
child.
	Horace wrote on the 12t'n, “Bro. Kimball,
Bishop Miller and myself went to Brigham’s
house, which is just finished, in honor of which
we spent the evening in dancing.  Bro. John
Kay sung a few songs and the company dis-
persed, having had a real  good “house warm-
ing.” Bishop Miller, Peter Haw.es and L
Woodworth slept at my house to-night on the
floor.  The latter is quite sick with the fever.
*	*	*	*	The brethren, for
the last two or three days, have been in council
with Bishop Miller, trying to take action on
His case before he goes back to the Punkaw na-
tion.”
	The Bishop had just returned from the coun-
try, where he had been, with others of his
company, for produce.  He left for home with
part of his company on the 15th.  Many of the
brethren had gone down into Missouri to work
or to trade for provisions, which consisted,
mostly, of corn and bacon; the latter, with
corn meal cakes,was our main subsistence dur-
ing the winter.  Vegetables, and many of the
necessaries of life were not obtainable.  Indian
meal cake and puddings we considered very
nice when used as rarities, as we were accus-
tomed to doing in the east, but when we had
little or no change, they became somewhat
nauseous, particularly to the sick and delicate.


