RELIGIO-P0LITICAL CRUSADE.

	The crusade against the people of Utah, the
original settlers, the actual pioneers of this new
country, this sometime barren desert, has bagun
in dead earnest, judging from the events trans-
piring at the present time, and the bitterness
and utter lack of honor that is apparent on the
part of those unscrupulous men, who have un-
dertaken with zeal, worthy a better cause, to
manipulate the present religious political cam-
paign.
	These officers of the law and their emissaries
would fain make people believe they are anxious
to promote a better condition of society, and
make the country more popular; in fact would
elevate all who would be guided by them.
Would they not then take away the agency of
the individual? If you want to believe in Mor-
monism it is heresy in the eyes of these official
authorities; you have no right to believe in cer-
tain things, society condemns them,and we, the
people of the United States, will not submit to
it. Then men and women are not to have the
right of conscience? This is a free country in-
deed! The people of the United States are out-
raged by certain forms of marriage! Are not
the people of Utah the people of the United
States, a part of the body politic? One would
think not to hear these officials talk! Is not
every citizen of the United States entitled to
privileges of freedom and religious liberty, and
is any man or woman to be condemned, without
due process of law, to any punishment whatso-
ever?
	The laws of the United States so read, and we
have ever been so taught and we so understand
it, but the laws are changed when Mormons are
accused; anything is fair on the side of men who
administer the law, any testimony may be
taken as evidence, or no testimony at all accord-
ing to the circumstances, and it requires no
proof whatever to deprive a man or woman of
the right of franchise. Men and women are
punished without any evidence being brought of
the alleged crime, test oaths are applied to the
people in regard to their religion, actual religi-
ous rites and ceremonies, and if they will not
subscribe to them they are powerless as to any
claim upon their country. They are outcasts in
its broadest sense. They have no rights or
claims that the country will acknowledge, and
men and women, who are by every human right,
sacred or divine, entitled to the blessings be-
queathed, by that glorious instrument of free-
dom, the Constitution, are being deprived, little
by little, of every vestige of liberty, religious or
political.
	Every American citizen, whether native born
or naturalized, points with pride and confidence
to the Constitution, knowing its grand and sub-
lime principles and the religious liberty it guaran-
tees as a safeguard and protection. But it is

[Column 2]

being torn to shreds, figuratively speaking, by
members of Congress who pass unconstitutional
laws, and the executive and judiciary officials
who administer them,while they boast so vigor-
ously at the same time about having the laws
obeyed, and are such sticklers for morality that
their pure minds are exercised because more
wives than one live in the marriage relation
with one husband, and are protected, cared for
and supported, their children acknowledged, and
withal have marital rights and privileges. Is
the way of the world so much higher morally
that they can very well afford to boast of their
refined civilization.
	To be sure it is so widely different from the
order of plural marriage that comparisons are
odious, and should never at any time be allowed;
but in view of these very punctilious people
feeling outraged by the practice of plural mar-
riage away off in the heart of the American
derert, let us pause and consider the misery and
degradation in the City of Washington alone,
where these one-sided laws are enacted. We
give the testimony of a lady who is a resident of
that City, and has been for many years, who
moves in the best society, who was an intimate
friend of President Garfield, and in fact knows
Washington by heart, so to speak. Hear what
she says:
	"What is the danger that threatens our fire-
sides to-day? An invasion from Spain, or France
or England? An insult to our flag upon the
high seas? Who that has a son or a daughter
does not know that the moral pestilence that
walks abroad at noonday and poisons the air of
night is a more dangerous foe to his household
than hosts of armed men?
	"Gentlemen of the House of Congress have
asked me if I did not know that gathering in
these girls from the streets, even though we se-
cure their reformation, would only make room
for more; that this evil is a natural and inevit-
able necessity. May I ask in whose interest
this argument is used? Is it for our own sons
that this fearful supply must and will be de-
manded? Or is it for the sons of our neighbors?
Surely it is no the intention of the lawmakers,
by tacit consent, to deliberately provide for the
ruin and degradation of their own families. It
is folly to suppose that young and ignorant girls
and children can be bought and sold upon our
streets for the worst purposes, and your own
households only can be safe and high and pure.
*	*	*	It is not purely a local evil
for which the citizens only are responsible. In
the summer and autumn,when permanent resi-
dents only are here, this class of girls find
themselves on the verge of starvation, and large
numbers leave the city. But when Congress
assembles, the immense foreign and floating
population, that ever gathers around the capital
of a great nation, creates a demand for them,
and the keepers of the houses send out their
emissaries for new girls. The vagrant girls of
Washington are peculiarly national and not lo-
cal vagrants. Many of them are brought here
young and ignorant, from distant homes by em-
ployees of the Government. Large numbers
come in search of employment, and find, as the
twenty thousand war widows in New York
found, that there is but one employment for
women that men are willing to pay for."
	This is but a sentence or two from the strong
and able argument of this eminent lady in be-
half of a "Girl's Refore School." To read the
argument in full is enough to make one's blood
run cold, and she gives facts,for as she very apt-
ly says, "One fact is worth volumes of argu-
ment."
	But these people do not see the beam that is
in their own eye, but observe with alarm the
little mote they fancy they can see afar off in
Utah. And is it not true that in this very city,

[Column 3]

where men are employed to pry into domestic
affairs, to obtrude themselves into the sacred
home circle, that they are men of vile habits,
steeped in tobacco and whisky, men whom every
virtuous woman despises, and whom she would
shun as she would a deadly serpent? Yet these
men, under pretence of finding whether the
Edmunds law is being broken, obtrude them-
selves into the sacred precincts of homes where
the commandments of God are kept, where
prayers are offered, and where peace and happi-
ness abide; what do they care for morality, or
purity, or chastity; they are after money; they
are the tools employed to condemn innocent
men and women, and if possible throw them
into prison, break up happy homes and make
them desolate, ruin the lives and break the
hearts of women who are as far above these exe-
cutors of the Edmunds law as the heavens are
above the earth.
	A pertinent question to ask at the present
time would be, who supports the palaces of sin
in our midst? Who patronizes the saloons? If
these questions were answered truthfully it
would be, the men who have come here to civil-
ize and regenerate the "Mormons," but who are
many of them "like ravenous wolves seeking
whom they may devour." The real object is
money and political influence, and any means
will be resorted to that can be made available to
make capital out of the "Mormon" question.
	The persecution raging now against this peo-
ple can be styled nothing less than a crusade
against religion for political purposes. What will
be gained by it to further the ends of office seek-
ers towards place, power, or aggrandizement can
better be told in the future, but it will most like-
ly prove more disastrous to them in the end
than to the people whom they now oppress; it
was so in Mo., it was so in Nauvoo, and in our
opinion it will prove the same in this instance.
"Mormonism" will flourish, the people will
prosper, and those who fight against it will fall
into the pit they have dug for this people, and
be caught in the snares they have taken so much
pains to set for those who are trying to keep the
commandments of God.


