BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	The next inportant event was the arrival
of Almon W. Babbet and wife from Nauvoo,
This was on the evening of the 6th. He brought
considerable news; said the mob had complete
possession of the place, the Temple and all.
They had several mock ceremonies with differ-
ent individuals—had baptized Daniel Davis
three times. He saw Bishop Whitney, who
barely escaped, and was obliged to leave Nau-
voo secretly and speedily for St. Louis. He
stated that the mob had plundered numbers of
buildings, among which was the house of Bro.
Joseph Heywood, who was stripped of nearly
everything he possessed. They had defaced
the Temple considerably, both inside and out.
The shore of the city and all the approaches to
the city were strictly guarded to prevent the
ingress of "Mormons," and when any man was
found they immediately baptized him and sent
him over into Iowa. Mr. Babbet was advised
by the council, which had met to arrange some
difficulty between some of the brethren, to re-
main with us, but he seemed not very anxious
to do it.
	On the morning of the 9th he and wife
started back. Little John Smith, who had
come from Nauvoo with my father's family,
went with them to meet his mother, who was
about 150 miles back, near Mount Pisgah.
My husband mentions the death of Miss Eliza
A. Peirson, a niece of Dr. Richards, at his tent,
on the evening of the 10th.
	He says:  "She had left father and mother
far behind to join the Saints of God, in the
wilderness, to suffer and die among them for

[Column 2]

the Gospel's sake. She was a worthy, exem-
plary young woman, and the remembrance of
the many happy hours I have spent in her so-
ciety, together with her sisters and friends, will
never be obliterated while time shall last. She
was from Richmond, Massachusetts, where I
became acquainted with her during my sojourn
in the Eastern States."
	Under the same date is written the following:
"I. Redding returned from the Pawnee village
this evening, whither he had been by appoint-
ment to assist some families to remove back
here, whom Bishop Miller had left sick and
destitute." Bishop Miller had now become a
confirmed apostate. He had drawn away a
few weak and disaffected persons and some,
who, like himself, were corrupt at heart. They
were afterwards distinguished as Millerites.
Many of those who had traveled in his camp
returned to head quarters.
	On the 13th Horace speaks of a large camp
of Omahaws making considerable noise and
tumult in the village below, having received
their payment from the United States. "The
amount of money paid to them is $50,000,
which was brought up by land accompanied by
a guard of twelve men.
It is said that the Indians are killing our cat-
tle in great numbers below here, and they have
been here with beef to sell; no doubt the relics
of some of our cattle."
	On the evening of the 14th my uncle, Wm.
Murray, Bro. Harvey Green and Mr. Hovey
arrived from Nauvoo with their families, some
of them being very sick. They had been
three weeks on the road. They brought addi-
tional news, and according to their statements
the mob was pretty busy plundering houses,
ripping open feather beds and scattering the
contents in the street, knocking the horns from
the oxen on which the font was built, and run-
ning about the streets imitating the blowing of
horns with them and doing other acts of sac-
rilege. They had also torn down the altars
and pulpits in the Temple, and converted the
edifice into a meat market. The same spirit is
rampant to-day, and threats of a similar
character have been made by our enemies for
years past, but have been restrained by Him
who has said: "Thus far shalt thou go and no
further."
	But to return: On the 15th Horace wrote,
"Bro. W. Woodruff was brought into the
camp this afternoon from the woods severely
injured by the fall of a tree. Prest. Young,
Bro. Kimball, O. Pratt, Dr. Richards and
Joseph Young laid hands on him, after which
he appeared much relieved." He speaks of
Bro. Pond and family arriving on the 16th,
and all being quite sick with the ague. Con-
cerning the Omahaws he says, "They are lo-
cated about ten miles below here, where they
intend to remain this winter. They have had
for some time in contemplation a grand buf-
falo hunt, which they have abandoned in ex-
pectation of living and sustaining themselves
by the killing of our cattle instead, which they
are frequently detected in driving off."
	Sunday, the 18th, the weathar being toler-
able meeting was held at the stand. "The sub-
ject of our molestation by the Indians was
taken into consideration. It was thought to
be necessary to build our houses in a more
compact body and form our wagons in a circle,
that we might be better able to defend our-
selves against their encroachments. This was
the advice given by the interpreter who at-
tended meeting with some Indians at the stand."
It was further deemed proper to send out dif-
ferent companies in different directions after
the cattle. The companies were organized,
each consisting of twenty-one men. Brother
Winslow Farr, Z. Pulsipher and J. Redding
were appointed to go on the same business, as
captains of companies.

[Column 3]

	On Tuesday morning a general turnout was
made to go and drive in the cattle, in conform-
ity with the arrangements made at the meet-
ing. They spent a number of days hunting
them, and all that were found were put into
Father Cutler's yard, which was appointed as
the place of rendezvous, where the brethren
might come and each select his own cattle. In
the afternoon of the same day, the men who
were left in camp were summoned to go down
on the bottom and put out a fire, which was
raging greatly, and had already burnt a num-
ber of hay stacks. "But," Horace says "not-
withstanding all our efforts, we could not en-
tirely subdue it.	*	*	Brother
Kimball went and burnt round our stack in
order to sa ve it. The brethren at last suc-
ceeded in turning the fire in such a direction
that it should not do much injury."


