MARVELOUS TIMES.

	Who ran say that these are not marvelous
times and big with wonderful events? Every
day some startling development is made that
makes one conscious of the fact that these are
the times that try men's souls to the very cen-
tre. With all the accidents of the nineteenth
century nothiug is so effectually calculated to
prove a destructive agency for the wicked and
ungodly as the invention and manufacture of
dynamite. What may not be accomplished by
this terrible agent of destruction when manipu-
lated by cruel, designing and unscrupulous men
or women, though we instinctively shrink from
the acknowledgement, yet women have been
proven equally cruel with men when occasion
required urgent action. For instance, in the
French Revolution, and in the case of "Shake-
speare's Lady Macbeth."
	The recent explosion in London has opened
the eyes of many who sat in darkness on this
subject, and that was no doubt only an experi-
ment, and ere long the nations will awaken to
the coneciousness of the astounding fact that
when there was seeming security, they were
treading upon dangerous ground that might at
any moment explode and swallow them up.
Secret societies, combinations and organizations
are banding themselves together for certain pur-
poses, and it would seem the time is fast ap
proaching when every man's hand will be
against his neighbor, and he who will not take
up his sword must needs flee to Zion.
	The war in Egypt has carried off its thousands
and tens of thousands already, and still it is in
progress. The terrible avalanches in Italy have
carried terror and desolation through a large por-
tion of that beautiful country, and left thou-
sands homeless and destitute, as well as burying
an unnumbered multitude alive. In our own
land cyclones in the south have frightened
many and destroyed much property; and storms,
shipwrecks and accidents and the like by
sea and by land are of every-day occurrence.
	In the mean time, how is it with the Latter-
day Saints? They are being persecuted by their
enemies, wickedness waxeth strong in high
places and in the hearts of the rulers of the na-
tion, the evil one is on the alert, knowing that
his time is short. The servants of the Most
High are being persecuted and driven to ex-
tremities, and the very principles of heaven are
being used as a weapon against the Saints to
banishment and imprisonment. Men who have
laid their all upon the altar for Christ's sake,
men who have endured much persecution here-
tofore, are taken up on the slightest pretext, and
their liberties jeopardized, their families intimi-
dated if possible and every indignity heaped
upon them until it seems more than human na-
ture can bear,

[Column 2]

	Ths recent cases that have been before the
courts here have been treated in such a way that
it makes one feel there is no such thing as jus-
tice and equity to be obtained, but only a deter-
mination to push to the very extreme those who
by some unforeseen circumstance or incident
have fallen into the hands of their enemies, who
are like ravenous wolves ready to devour all that
comes in their way and are ever on the alert for
more. They seem to forget the slippery places
on which they themselves stand, and the glass
houses in which they live; and while their eyes
have enormous beams in them, they are probing
for the mote that is in their neighbor's.
	But swift destruction awaits all such and they
will be overtaken as a thief in the night, and
will cry for help and none will hear.
	The way in which the officials, Prosecuting
Attorney and his assistants, have questioned
young women in the examinations that have
been made before the Commissioners is a dis-
grace. The most indelicate and obnoxious ques-
tions are put to innocent, pure-minded young
girls. How much longer this sort of thing can
be endured it is impossible to say. At present a
vigorous effort is being made by those in power
here to afflict and annoy peaceable citizens.
Next week will be a busy one for these con-
temptible deputies,and every woman who values
her honor wllf no doubt do her best to protect
herself from being confronted by one of them.
On the slightest pretext they serve a subpoena
and no one knows then, what his or her fate
may be.
	The statement or decision, if it can be so
called, made in the case of President Angus M.
Cannon is the weakest article one could imag-
ine. The Commissioner does not base his as-
sertion upon the evidence at all, but upon sup-
position, which it seems to any one possessing
ordinary common sense to be contrary to all law;
all deductions drawn are, or should be, accord-
ing to evidence and not supposition. But as
this is more persecution than prosecution, it will
of course pass muster, even though men’s liber-
ties are at stake; they are "Mormons," and that
accounts for it—these civilizers, regenerators,
purifiers, who are so anxious the laws should be
enforced, care no more for purity of morals than
they do for a pure atmosphere to breathe in,the
fumes of tobacco and whiskey in and around
theFederal court room are positively nauseating.
One cannot help thinking of the remark of Rev.
Olympia Brown, who said the aristocracy of
power was that of the moustache, whose insig-
nia was the spittoon, whose home was the smok-
ing car, and whose outward sign was the curling
tobacco smoke, etc., and with all propriety one
might add the fumes of whiskey.


[Column 1]
