		S. M. KIMBALL.

REPLY
MRS. SARAH M. KIMBALL—DEAR COUSIN:
	Yours of the 24th of August last, came to
my home while I was on a visit to Old Ply-
mouth Bay, where the Pilgrim Fathers first
landed, where I remained some time with rela-
tives. After my return home your letter was
handed me, and indeed it was a strange message
and from a strange messenger.
	I did not write you immediately, for the
reason I had not quite all the dates you re-
quested. You ask to know of the honored
dead of the Granger family, of their birth,
death, etc. I cheerfully comply so far as I have
it, for indeed we sprung from a noble ancestry.
I copy the following from Elisha Granger's old
Bible as it lies before me in his own hand writ-
ing:

	Births of the children of Elisha Granger by Sarah
his wife.
	Elisha, born Feb. 23, 1768.
	Pierce, born Aug. 23, 1769.
	Elihu, born April 30, 1771.
	Sarah, born March 26, 1773.
	Eliphaz, born Feb. 9, 1775.
	Sarah my wife departed this life Feb. 15, 1775.

	Next, the death of my grandfather's second
wife, but I have no account of the death of his
third wife. And then follows his own death
who was your own great grandfather, as taken
from the tombstones in the old burial ground
in Vienna (Phelps), that he bought and gave
to the Methodists for a church lot and burial
ground and the Methodist church stands on
the same site to-day:

In Memory of
Hannah
the wife of Elisha Granger
 Who departed this life
June 26, 1807, in the
73d year of her age.

In Memory of 
Mr. Elisha Granger
who died April 12, 1821,
aged 77 years, 9 months and 9 days.

	Next I give the epitaph of your own dear
grandmother:

Sacred to the Memory of
Mrs. Clarisa Granger
the wife of Pierce Granger, Esq.,
who died Aug., 1813, in the
40th year of her age.

	Next, that of your Aunt Apamy, a noble
Christian woman:

Apamy,
wife of Elihu Granger
who died July 21, 1853
aged 8l years.

	This brings me to notice the death of your
Aunt Sarah Granger Case, as you call her, my
own dear departed mother. She died at my
house, the old homestead, Oct. 6, 1843, aged
70 years and six months. She was named
after my noble grandmother and you bear not
only the name of my mother but of that noble
grandmother that gave birth to our Granger
family, but died as you see by the above rec-
ord, leaving her young family and a babe six
days old.
	We turn next to our noble Christian grand-
father, your great grandfather, and note what

[Column 3]

he done with all those motherless children. In
a proper time he looked out a mother for
them, and did not let the animal part of man
predominate by running after some young girl,
but procured a mother that was ten years older
than himself to help bring up his children.
This was a noble act on his part. He was con-
verted under Jesse Lee, of Conn., and Lee
gave him license to preach. I have often seen
the license in his old family Bible. They
brought up their family in a Christian way
under all the disadvantages of a new country,
he being with his three oldest boys, the second
settler in the town of Phelps. That first sum-
mer in one of the settlements a person died and
our grandfather preached the funeral sermon,
the first one ever preached in Phelps, which
was in 1789. But in the fall they went back
to Connecticut, and did not move on with
their families until the next year.
	Our grandfather bought 1000 acres in
Phelps and 1000 acres in Sodus and placed
his children on his lands, but this was not
enough for him to do. He and his wife would
get up meetings in private houses, and camp
meetings, for at that time there were no
churches, and in answer to the prayers of their
father and mother, their children were all con-
verted, and your grandfather, my uncle Pierce,
who was also a local preacher in the Methodist
church, besides he was a Justice of the Peace,
and no person of his time was more favorably
spoken of, even to this day by all that knew
him.
	I do not find any record of my much loved
uncle Pierce Granger, he died in the west and
I hope you may be able to find it. I feel under
great obligation to my beloved grandfather and
my uncle Pierce and I regard them our worthy
dead. Have you any Temple font and endow-
ment blessing that could be secured in their
behalf as well? They were both married here,
one having three wives and the other two, but
not but one at a time.
	Of course, I am not aware of any celestial
marriage, or whether there is any for men, if
they are equally good. But so far as I have
been permitted in my limited experience to ob-
serve, I have noticed that those who took to
themselves more wives than one were not con-
sidered to be the best type of men; this holds
equally true among the ministry in the differ-
ent evangelical denominations. But you may
have become acquainted with a better class of
ministers among your "peculiar people," who
are trying to obey the teaching that a Bishop
should be the husband of one wife, etc.
	I have not the pamphlet of which you speak.
My grandfather's family were all born in old
Simsbury, Conn. If any further information
is desired please ask, and if you ever come this
way again I will be glad to see you,
	Yours, etc.
