O, JUSTICE! WHITHER HAST THOU
FLED?

	Let our eye look upon Zion. Let her be defiled.
	But they knew not the thoughts of the Lord.—Micah
IV, 11,12.
	Let us enter the private sanctuary of domes-
tic life, where, to the honor of this great re-
public, the divinity of the marriage tie is ac-
knowledged and held sacred; and where purity,
the crowning glory of the social circle, is bravely
and successfully protected.
	Let us there, with wanton cruelty, defy the
Constitution of our country, and by trampling
on the rights of conscience, sever the holy ties
of wedlock—separate husband and wife—pa-
rents and children, and ignore the finest affec-
tions of the human heart.
	Yes; let us cause thousands of honorable, lov-
ing wives to be stigmatized as prostitutes, and
their offspring, as bastards.
	Let us cause multitudes of innocent children,
that are now being tenderly cherished and care-
fully educated, to be branded with infamy, and
deprived of heirship.
	Let us desecrate their homes, and exterminate
the only people of whom this nation can truly
boast as protectors of purity and innocence; lest
their virtuous and honorable example shall, in
the present reign of corruption, rise up before us
as a burning reproof.
	Let us immure in loathsome prisons those
brave men, who, for the sake of worshiping God
according to the dictates of their own con-
sciences, left their homes and the graves of their
noble ancestors, and sought refuge in the sterile
American Desert; where, nerved by the power
of faith in the arm of the Great Jehovah, for a
while they battled with the elements for life,
and at length, with indomitable energy, over-
came the barrenness of the soil, and made the
"Deseret blossom as the rose."
	Those are the men, whe, with their stalwart

[Column 2]

sons, the noble offspring of plural, celestial
marriage, with stern, unyielding persevarance,
establishe a connecting link between the com-
mercial cities of the East, and the rich mining
districts of the West, and made practicable for
the nation, the continental transit of the "iron
horse."
	Let us erace from the book of remembrance
the countless deeds of hospitality and generosi-
ty bestowed by those early settlers of the wilder-
ness, on our emigrants,when their supplies were
exhausted, as they were wending their way
through to California.
	Let us plant the seeds of devastation in a
thriving, peaceful, honest, industrious commun-
ity—a Territory brought into existence and
made to flourish, without aid, protection, or en-
couragement from the government under which
it exists.
	Yes. let us abregate the rights of its founders,
insomuch that henceforth it shall be controlled
by gamblers and speculators—those who have
no interest in common with the people.
	Instead of the Territory of Utah as it had be-
come—a theme of boast, as a nucleus of peace,
good order and happiness; let us, through our
crushing policy, exhibit it to the nations abroad
as a spectacle of confusion, desolation and 
woe.
	Let us tear away that mighty shield of the
rights of concience, and protector of the rights
of citizenship, our glorious Constitution—let us
place our veto on the commands of the Al-
mighty, and presume to me sure arms with the
Great Ruler of the Universe.
	Thus saith the President, and thus saith the
Congress of the United States of America, by
passing unconstitutional bills, and in appointing
and forcing upon Utah a Commission composed
of men with undeveloped consciences, who as-
sume preogatives, powers,and authority beyond
their investment: who having inagurated an
obnoxious compulsory test oath to screen the
lecherous and punish the pure, complacently
smile when the inalienable rights of local citi-
zens are trampled upon, and the judicial sanc-
tum, which should be an emporium of justice
and equity, is transformed into a nest of conspira-
tors—an equisitorial caldron.
		E. R. SNOW SMITH.
	Salt Lake City, Feb. 7, 1885.


[Column 1]
﻿		A VIEW- FEBRUARY 18S5.
	It is interesting to note the different phases
presented at different periods of the world’s
history by those powers which have ever been
opposed to the truth. Alike in those dispensa-
tions in which Moses and Jesus were to figure
prominently, the Evil Powers seem to take into
consideration beforehand the necessity of doing
something to prevent the rise of such mighty
one, in the interest of that cause against which
they fought.
	They therefore “put it into the hearts of
wicked men" to have the lives of infants taken
which should be born in the times and places in
which they supposed those mighty ones were to
come forth. But notwithstanding all the great
crimes committed in the shedding of innocent
blood at those times the plans of the Almighty
were not frustrated. The very children whose
lives were sought being safely guarded and kept
alive. The Evil Powers were foiled and the
powers of light were triumphant.
	In this, “The dispensation of the Fulness of
Times,” the evil powers seem to take a some-
what different stand, though evidently working
with the same object in view as in former times.
It appears now that their business is to ‘put it
into the hearts of wicked men” to frame and
seek to enforce laws to the effect that children

[Column 2]
shall not be born. The world does not want
them, and the few people who do want them
must not have them if their enemies can pre-
vent it.
	This latter scheme of the Evil Powers is with-
out doubt concocted in consequence of a knowl-
edge which they must have obtained of the fact
that within a limited space of time, all the re-
maining spirits which belong to this earth, and
are to receive earthly tabernacles, wi1 be born
of the flesh. That among them are many mas-
ter spirits, which have been reserved for the
great work of the latterdays. And that as soon
as these spirits have received their fleshly taber-
nacles, and are brought forth, “The end of the
world, which is the destruction of the wicked,"
will c[-]me.
	Is it any wonder that the Evil Powers are
striving so madly and so vigorously at this time
to do something to prevent the birth of pure
spirits in pure bodie? What else should they
be striving for, knowing, as they do, that “their
time is short?” Only to be faithful and diligent
remains for those who are looking forward to the
time when the evil powers will be bound, and

