OBITUARY

	DIED, at St. Johns, Arizona, Sister Harriet Zelnora
Chapman, beloved wife of Elder Welcome Chapham
Deceased was born May 13, 1854, in Sheffield, Yorkshire
England; emigrated in the William Tapscot, 1862, with
her mother and a younger sister. She has been the
mother of four children; only one, a little girl aged 13,
now living. Bro. and Sister Chapman were called to
Arizona on a mission at the last Spring Conference
Early in Octob[-]r Sister Chapman was hooked by a cow
and died ten weeks afterwards from the effects of the
injuries recelved.
	She was a loving daughter, wife and mother: we
mourn her loss, yet feel all is well, with those who have
been faithful and true and have endured unto the end.
May our Heavenly Father shed abroad His Holy Spirit
in the hearts of those who mourn,especially her mother,
Sister Sarah Mc.DonaId of this city, whose heart is
sorely stricken at the loss of her daughter; and may she
remember in this her hour of sorrow the comforting
words of our blessed Savior: “Blessed are they that
mourn, for they shall be comforted"—and the words of
the inspired Prophet of God who said, “Blessed are the
dead who die in the Lord; yea, they rest from th[-]ir la-
bors and from henceforth their, works shall follow
them.”—COM.
				
	DIED, at South Cottonwood Ward, Dec. 2nd, 1884,
of a chill, Floy, beloved daughter of Joseph H. and
Nancy E. Proctor; aged ten years and eleven months.
	We, The Primary Association of South Cottonwood
Ward, in view of-the loss we have sustained by the
decease of our friend and associate,
	Therefore, Be it resolved, that it is but a just tribute
to the memory of the departed, we offer to the parents
our sincere sympathy, and say, while we mourn the loss
of our dear Floy, we shall look forward with joy to the
time when we shall meet the dead. The angels called
and in ways of an all wise Providence it was that she
should go. Though the days are dark now springtime
will come once more. Thus we trust pleasant days will
come again for you and yours.
	"This lovely bud, so young, so fair,
		Called hence by early doom, 
	Just came to show how sweet a flower
		In paradise would bloom.”
		MRS. ELIZABETH DAVIS, Prest.
		MRS. MARGARET CAHOON,
		MRS. SARAH A. WOOTON,	Counselors. 
And members of the South Cottonwood Ward Primary
Association.
		EMILY E. BRINTON, Secretary.


[Column 1]
	Home-Made Silks!

Home-Made silk Dress Goods, Ottomans, Gros-
	grains. Brocaded and Plain Satins and
		Grenadines; also Handkerchiefs,
For Sale at MANUFACTURERS' PRICES, by
		MRS. B. P. MUSSER,
	Second House South  of Silk Factory, Canyon Road

[Column 2]
﻿THE PLACE
	TO BUY BEAUTIFUL AND ARTISTIC
Home Made Valentines
	is at	
