PRAYER.

"Prayer is the soul's sincere desire."

	Our most inward thoughts and desires, wheth-
er good or evil, are known to the Lord; He
can read our hearts as we can read a printed
book. Then how necessary it is for us to be
pure in our thoughts as well as in our actions.
God is the Father of our spirits; His ears are
always open to the prayers of His children.
What a beautiful, consoling thought to know
that we have a Father in heaven whom we can
approach in our hour of trial and tribulation,
even if we are deserted by all we hold dear
upon earth, knowing that He will never forsake
His children nor leave them comfortless; for
our Savior says, "Ask, and ye shall receive;
knock, and it shall be opened unto you." What
is more easy than this, only to ask and we shall
receive. And we as Saints and daughters of
God know that He has not made this promise
in vain.
	I believe every one of us, if we live as we
should do, can bear testimony to the efficiency
of prayer. How many times has the Lord
heard our prayer in regard to our little ones
when upon a bed of suffering, and restored
them to health according to our prayers and
the desires of our hearts. The Lord says He
knows the desires before asking Him, but He
likes us to ask for what we want, and that in
faith. How many times have the sick been
healed, the deaf made to hear, the lame to
walk, and even the dead raised to life through
the prayer of faith?
	How is it that we are so abundantly blessed
and prospered in these valleys of the moun-
tains, being of so many nationalities. It is
through the prayers and faith of the Saints, for
the Lord loves a prayerful people, and will
protect and bless them. He loves to listen to

[Column 2]

them and to grant their requests. It is not
the length of our prayers that is most accepta-
ble to the Lord, but the earnest desires of a
honest heart. How simple, yet how beautiful,
is the prayer our Savior taught His Disciples,
"Our Father which art in heaven, etc." In
another instance our Savior says: "What things
soever ye desire when ye pray, believe that ye
receive them and you shall have them; and
when praying forgive if ye have aught against
any, that your Father which is in heaven may
also forgive you your trespasses." He also
says, if we are joyful, to praise Him with sing-
ing, as a song of the heart is a prayer unto the
Lord. We are also told to watch and pray,
lest we enter into temptation.
	What is a more beautiful sight than to see a
little child in pure simplicity kneeling at its
mother's knee offering up a prayer to our
Heavenly Father, and we have read of many
instances where their prayers have been an-
swered, and I believe the Lord hears the
prayer of a little child even quicker than He
does of older people, because they have not
committed any sin, and are therefore pure. But
our Savior tells us to ask and it shall be given;
seek, and ye shall find; and to every one that
knocketh it shall be opened. He also tells us
that the hairs of our head are all numbered,
and that not even a sparrow falls to the ground
without His notice. And in Him we live and
move and have our being.
	Men generally do not believe in these things,
but we as Latter-day Saints know it to be true,
and that there is no safety without prayer.
We read that our Savior Jesus Christ, before
His crucifixion, went into the Garden of Geth-
semane, which is the Mount of Olives, and in
agony He prayed to God that if it were possi-
ble, to let the cup pass; He also took some of
His Disciples with Him and asked them to
watch while He prayed; and while He was
offering His prayer to His Father to sustain
Him in His trying hour, they slumbered and
slept. We find that He did this three times,
and each time He found them asleep. The
third time He said: "Sleep on now and take
your rest, the Son of Man is betrayed into the
hands of sinners."
	If Jesus our Savior had occasion to continu-
ally plead with the Lord for His aid and assist-
ance,how much more necessary it is for us,poor,
weak fallen humanity to pray without ceasing
that the Spirit of God may be our constant
guide and companion through all the joys and
ills of life so that we may be able to stand firm
as the Rock of Ages, holding on to the Rod of
Iron, ever remembering that the Lord is our
friend, that He is a God that is near and not
afar off, that He knows our every thought and
desire, and that He is ever ready to hear and
answer our prayers; and may we ever be able
to say that in life or death we are the Lord's.
	I would then exhort you, my young sisters,
never to neglect or forget your prayers if you
would have the Lord for your friend and
guide, and by obedience to God's laws and
seeking to live nearer unto our Heavenly
Father we may hold communion with holy be-
ings, for there is no blessing the Lord will
withhold from His children if they are only
humble and prayerful.	A. N. B.
	Jan 28, 1885.


London has a Sunday paper, the Age, devot-
ed to gossip, with 50,000  circulation.


