PRIMARY REPORT
		   	
	Minutes of Primary Association of Fifth
Ward, Jan. 14, 1885, Prest. Clark presiding.
Opened by singing“Gather up the Sunbeams;”
Prayer by Prest. Clark; Singing "Nay, speak
no ill.”	Roll called, 57 members present; min-
utes read and accepted. The programme was
then carried out as follows: Recitation by E. 
 Brimley; Recitation, R. Cowan; Song, Mor-
mon Boy,” Roy Palm[-]r; Essay, “Happiness,”
Amy Harper; Reading from Doc. & Cov., Lily
Pettit; Song, “Dare to be a Daniel,” E. Abbott;
Organ Solo, Lizzie Marsden, Duet, Lottie and
Ella Marcroft; Bible Reading, Ernest Brown;
Duet by Lily Appleby and Lizzie Brown.  An
account of the annual meeting was then read,
	Sister Clawson then said that she was
pleased to be present, and especially to see so
many boys, as this spoke well for the future.
Asked how many dismissed meeting, also who
were the Bishop and Counselors of the ward
and Superintendent of Sunday School, which
was answered promptly by members. Spoke
about the necessity of being obedient, polite
and unselfish; hoped all would remember to
pray and be ready to do whatever Sister Clark
desired.
	Sister Ferguson then said Sister Clawson
had praised the boys,but one thing she noticed
was, that their hands were very dirty (when
quite a number put them in their pockets).
Spoke about a story she had heard, where a
little boy whose mother was sick, had prayed
for her, and she recovered through his faith.
Said children’s prayers are sometimes heard
even more than ours, as their prayers are so in-
nocent and they have great faith. Spoke of
the consequences of disobedience. Said honor
thy father and mother was a revelation to
children, and if you are in the path of duty
the Lord will send His guardian angels to pro-
tect you; but if you do wrong the adversary
will tempt you. Asked all to pray for the
Lord to preserve them from every ill.
	Sister Clark then said she hoped all would
remember the instructions which had been
given, and would like  to  see visitors at any
time. 
	Programme was then read; closed by singing
“Love at Home;” Benediction by Sister Claw-
son.


