WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	CORRESPONDENCE
	PROVIDENCE, Cache Co., Jan. 20, 1885.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	As it is seldom that an article appears in
your valuable little paper from Providence, if
you can spare the space I will inform the read-
﻿
[Column 2]
ers of the EXPONENT how we are progressing
in the work of God.
	The people are trying to live their religion,
and are enjoying a goodly portion of the Spirit
of God. All our associations are in a flour-
ishing condition,and a greater interest is taken
in them now than at any previous time. Our
Primary Association cannot be surpassed.
Every year about a week before Christmas
they have a fair and display all the work they
have done during the past year. All kind of
work is to be seen there, and some of it is real-
ly beautiful. In the morning there is an ex-
amination of all they have learned, and one
cannot help but mark the progress they have
made. It is a lovely sight to see the little ones
clinging to their parents and pointing to some
article they have made and say, “See, mother
I made that! isn’t it pretty?” And a very good
feature of the fair is: parents come and see
what their children have done and do not feel
satisfied until they have purchased it. By do-
ing this the association is supplied with funds
to pay its expenses.
	The Relief Society and Y. L. are progress-
ing favorably. They hold their meetings reg-
ularly, and they are well attended.
	There has been much sickness this winter,
but the health of the people is now good. There
have been a few deaths, however, and among
those who have passed from the troubles and
sorrows of this life are Sisters Lovisa Miller
Hammond and Mary Morris Gibbs. Sister
Hammond was the daughter of Daniel and
Clarissa Pond Miller. She was born Oct. 1st,
1834, in Hancock Co., Illinois, and removed
with her parents to this Territory when only a
girl. She was married to M. D. Hammond on
the 11th of Dec., 1853, and was the mother of
eleven children, all of whom are living, except
one daughter aged fifteen years, who died two
weeks before her mother. She died Dec. 9th,
1884, and leaves a large family and a wide cir-
cle of friends to mourn her loss. Sister Ham-
mond had been President of the R. S. of this
place for two years, and during that time she
did her utmost to make a good President. All
the members of the society respected and sus-
tained her in her position.
	Sister Gibbs, wife of Richard W. Gibbs, was
born July 15,1821, in the small town of Pon-
tyeats, Caernarthanshire, South Wales, and
was the mother of six children. She was bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints in 1845, and from that time to
the time of her emigration to Utah in 1869,her
house was a continual resort for the Elders,
and none ever came who were not welcome, or
did not feel her generous spirit. Sister Gibbs
died very suddenly on the morning of the 14th
of January, not having been sick a minute, to
any one’s knowledge. About seven o’clock
her husband heard her make an unusual noise,
but before he could light a lamp she was dead.
She died as the had lived, a true saint, and
many warm friends mourn her loss.
	The people are enjoying many blessings be-
stowed upon them by their Heavenly Father,
and many manifestations of His power and
goodness are shown  continually in our midst.
I can testify to many instances where He has
made manifest His power in healing my little
children and myself when we have been sick,
and in caring for us and comforting me in my
lonely hours while my husband is on his mis-
sion; and also in caring for my husband,raising
up friends for him, and giving him health and
strength that he may go forth and carry His
word to the honest in heart and teach them the
principles of the Gospel. For all His mercies
and blessings I am truly thaukful and grateful,
and desire to continue a faithful servant in
His Kingdom. 
