EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The pen sketch of Patty Session will be
continued in our next issue.
	MINUTES of Ladies' Semi-monthly, meeting,
held in this city, Feb. 7th, left over for lack of
space, will also appear in our next number.
	THE Secretaries of the several organizations in
this Stake of Zion will please remember that re-
ports must be handed in early in order that the
Stake secretaries of R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. and
P. A. may have ample time to prepare them for
the Stake Conference of this Stake of Zion,
which will be held previous to the sister's Con-
ference. The 5th of March is the latest date
given for them.
	The comic opera of Patience will be presented
in the Salt Lake Theatre, on Monday evening,
Feb. 23rd. The performers are all selected
from home talent, and, there is every prospect
that the performance will be excellent of its
kind. Prof. Krouse, a thoroughly educated
musician, who is getting up the affair, is spar-
ing no pains to make the event a perfect success.
The names of those who are to take part in the
opera are a pretty good guarantee of an enjoyable
musical treat and entertainment.
“Cherry Lips" is the title of a piece of music,
a grand valse, composed by Prof. A. Andle and
published by D[-]ynes & Coalter of this city, who
are really "very enterprising young men in a
musical direction. It Is one of a series of musi-
cal sketches, which will be suitable for the
guitar, banjo, piano, organ, violin, mandolin


z[-]ther and harp.		Prof. Andre has a happy facul-
ty of adaptation, as well as good taste in the com-
position of his pieces for his scholars, and as
they are not diffi ult thay will no doubt have a
wide circulation in the home market.
	THE Stake Secretaries in the various Stakes of
Zion will please govern themselves according to
the instructions previously given, that all re.
ports for the Central Board may be in before the
5th of March. The Relief Society, the Young
Ladies' Associations and the Primary are all
requested to send their reports to the secretary
of Central Board. Relief Society, Sarah M.
Kimball; Box 629, S. L. City. Y. L. M I. A ,
Louie M. Wells, Box 555. S. L. City. Primary
Associations, Alice A. Jenkins, S	   L. City.
Please be prompt in sending, that a complete
and correct report may be made for the April
Conference.
	The conflicting reports and rumors in regard
to the condition, of the English troops in Egypt
render it impossible to decide whether or not
Gen. Gordon has been killed, or indeed make It
somewhat doubtful whether Khartoum has real-
ly fallen. However, it is true that the brave
and gallant Earle, and also Leiut. Col. Eyre and
Col. Coventry have been killed. The telegrams
of Feb,12th, stale that the English success was
complete. More troops are to be sent to Egypt
and the struggle will continue. A council of
war was held at the War Office at noon on
Thursday, Feb. 12th. The Duke of Cambridge
will review the troops before they leave for
Egypt. The outlook is not cheery for the
English when their best officers and many of
their soldiers must be sacrificed; but the gov-
ernment seems quite willing to risk them, and
such are the fortunes of war.


