IS HARD."

	They say, "Who seeth us and who knoweth
us?" God knows and sees all things, and all
things that we do he takes cogn zance of, and we
"are rewarded for the deeds done in the body,
whether they be good or evil."
	How necessary, then, that we do right and
not transgress God's laws and commandments,
for He cannot look upon sin with the least de-
gree of allowance. If we go into the secret
chamber to commit sin the word of the Lord
says, "It shall be revealed upon the house tops,
for the Lord loveth judgment and forsaketh not
His Saints; they are preserved forever: but the
seed of the wicked shall be cut off" "The
righteous shall inherit the land, and dwell there-
in forever." "The wicked watcheth the right-
eous and seeketh to slay him." Psalms 37th
chapter, 29th and 32nd verses.
	Oh! how great are the promises of the Lord to
the righteous. The Psalmist again says, "I have
not seen them forsaken nor their seed begging
bread," These are the days of repentance and
turning away from sin, that we may become a
sanctified people, waiting for the Lord's appear-
ing.
	Acts, 3rd chapter, 20th verse: "And He shall
send Jesus Christ, which before was preached
unto you." "Whom the heavens must receive
until the time of the restitution of all things,
which God hath spoken by the mouth of His
Holy Prophets since the world began." And as
the men of Galilee were looking up into heaven
the angels said, "This same Jesus which is
taken up from you into heaven shall so come in
like manner as ye have seen Him go into hea-
ven."
	Now, the Lord has been very merciful to the
inhabitants of the earth, and sent His holy
angels to warn them of judgments that are now
coming thick and fast, to repent of their sins,
accept of the true Gospel and prepare for His
coming again to the earth. It seems, indeed,
strange to me that people will persecute the
Latter-day Saints, because they promulgate the
true Gospel of the former-day Saints. The
Priesthood had to be restored by revelation, and
was—to Joseph Smith. He received the plates
on which the Book of Mormon was written, and
translated it by the gift and power of God. The
Urim and Thummin he received also, which
cons[-]itut[-]d him a seer and revelator, and a great
prophet to the world of mankind. God gave
him the greatest knowledge of doctrine, of prin-
ciples and history, of any man on the earth. He


gazed into the past and knew how to arrange
prophecy, he was active in the present to estab-
lish the Church of Christ, with that unity of
faith, which is the world's wonder, without
flaws, cross, or clashing of sentiment. His
knowledge of the future led his mind beyond
the grave to comprehend the immortal destiny
of God's creation. The work that be did could
not have been done without the aid of our
Father above. Joseph Smith was rejected be-
cause he was poor and because he testified to
the truth as God showed it unto him; and as
God's ways are not like man's ways, to which
the world cannot conform, no more than the un-
godly could to Christ's teachings,when He came
to the Jews. The Lord says He will do a strange
work and a wonder; and again, He says, He will
do nothing except He reve[-]leth Himself to His
servants the prophets. Then how can He do
His work on the earth without a prophet? Says
the unbeliever, "We need no more of these
things." If this be true, then God will be silent
forever and infidelity reign triumphant. We
must no more peruse the sacred book and believe
in its inspired pages. Its unfailing prophecies
in the past mark definitely its fulfilment in the
future, and as God is an unchangable being, He
will bring about His purposes in the same plain
and comprehensive manner as He has done in
all ages of the past.
