WASHINGTON CONVENTION.
	The evening session  of Tuesday brought out
a larger attendance and there were several
members of Congress present. Matilda J.
Gage delivered an address on the political par-
ties of the country, showing they had been suc-
cessful or had failed according to their strict
adherence to or desertion of principle.
	Mrs. Stanton followed,speaking on "The
Disabilities and Limitations of the sex." She
glorified motherhood as the divinest function;
referred to Horace Greeley's limitation of
woman's usefulness, in which he said she could
neither navigate a ship across the sea, nor sing
bass in a choir, by stating that woman had
done both. She laid at the doctrine of celi-
bacy endless evils and ills, and asserted that
the religious devotees of the moral ages were
responsible for the darkness of that age. She
criticised St. Paul's strictures on marriage,and
condemned the practice and principle of celi-
bacy in pungent and unmeasured terms.
	Mrs. Laura de Force Gordon was the last
speaker. She gave a history of the work in
California together with an interesting account
of the contest over the admission of women to
practice at the bar. Women are now admitted
to all callings and professions in California, sex
being declared no disqualification by the Con-
stitution, by a clause which Mrs. Gordon had
herself drafted.
		SECOND DAY.
	The meeting was called to order by Miss An-
thony. She told her hearers not to be discour-
aged. There were but four bills in the Senate
ahead of the suffrage bill and that already the
friends of the measure were preparing their
speeches on it. She said if women were half
as sagacious as men they would note down
points in behalf of the bill and send them to
one of the senators favoring the measure, that
he might incorporate them in his speech.
	Dispatches were read from Helen M. Gou
gar and Mrs. Lockwood, and letters from Clara
Barton, Robert Purvis and Rachel Foster.
	Mrs. Perkins of Ohio then read a most able
and forcible address, quaint, touching and tell-
ing, showing full womanly and matronly in-
stincts, an unfaltering trust in the Creator, an
abhorence of intemperance and a resolute and
immovable conviction that the cause of woman
was just and should be secured.  “There had
been too many Jane Carlyles in the past,sitting
up all night to make bread  for a grumbling
husband. Victor Hugo had said the 19th cen-
tury belonged to women, and he, rather
than the bearish English philospher, should
be taken as the true representative of his
age."
	Caroline Gilkey Rogers then read a well-
prepared and interesting paper on the “Aris-
tocracy of Sex." In the course of her address
she gave a description of a speech made by
Old Sojourner Truth in a suffrage convention
years ago, by which the entire current of
thought and feeling was changed. "If de fust
woman that God eber made was strong ’nuff to
turn the worl" upside down," said the tall and
powerful ex-slave, "den dese heah women on
de platform oughter be able to set her right
agin."
	Miss Burr read an allegorical essay showing
the condition of a world where the distinction
of sex in the walks of life had been oblitera-
ted and that this world was surpassingly and 
painfully inferior.
		RESOLUTIONS.
	"Whereas a bill for an amendment to the fed-
eral constitution prohibiting the states from
disfranchising citizens on account of sex is now,
with reports for and against its passage, before
the Congress of the United States; therefore,
	Resolved, That we request our representa-
tives in congress to pass this bill, and submit it
to the legislatures of the several states.
	Whereas it is conceded to be the duty of
overnments to protect the persons and proper-
ty of their citizens against all aggressions by
land and sea; therefore,
	Resolved, That it is clearly the duty of the
United States, on this principle, to protect the
women of the several states, when robbed by
tyrannical custom or unjustlegislation of their
fundamental rights by extending to them the
rights of suffrage.
	Resolved,  That in the death of the Hon.
Henry Fawcett, Wendall Phillips, Senator An-
thony, Madam Mathilde Annekk, Frances D.
Gage, Sarah Pugh, Elizabeth T. Schenck,
Katherine Newell Doggett, Laura Giddings
Julian, Judge Folger, Bishop Simpson, and
William Heney Channing, the year 1884 has
been one of irreparable losses to our move-
ment, and as an association we would express
to their families and friends in England and
America our deep sympathy in their affliction
and our gratitude for their life long services for
the elevation of women.
	Resolved, That we note with great satisfac-
tion the growth of sentiment favorable to
woman suffrage in the W. C. T. U., and that
we thank them heartily for their recent memo-
rial to congress in behalf of the sixteenth
amendment.
	Whereas the dogmas incorporated in relig-
ious creeds derived from Judaism, teaching
that woman was an afterthought in creation,
her sex a misfortune, marriage a condition of
subordination, and maternity a curse, are con-


[Column 1]

trary to the law of God as revealed in nature
and the precepts of Christ; and
	Whereas these dogmas are an insidious poi-
son sapping the vitality of our civilization,
blighting woman, and laying their palsying
hand upon humanity; therefore,
	Resolved, That we denounce these dogmas
wherever they are enunciated, and we will
withdraw our personal support from any or-
ganization or person so holding and teaching,
and
	Resolved, That we call upon the Christian
ministry, as leaders of thought, to teach and
enforce the fundamental idea of creation, that
man was made in the image of God, male and
female, and, given equal dominion over the
earth, but none over each other. And fur-
ther, we invite their co-operation securing
the recognition of the cardinal point of our
creed that in true religion there is neither
male nor female, neither bond nor free, but all
are one."
	These resolutions, introduced the first day,
were read and adopted, save the last one, which
created an unusual sensation. Men and women
joined in the debate and the discussion took a
partly religious turn and threatened to result
disastrously. It was discussed pro and con
vigorously and was beginning to call forth
criminating attack upon special religious or-
ders, when Mrs. Stanton arose and spoke ear-
nestly, and conclusively in its behalf, and then
said further consideration would be postponed
till the morning following when a special ses-
sion would be held to consider it. The after-
noon meeting then adjourned.
	The evening session was devoted to ad-
dresses. Miss Hardman of Philadephia spoke
on the subject, "As the Rulers, so the People,"
stating that the only way to overcome mob
rule was to substitute virtue for vice, to give
the more moral half of the community—the
women—representation, and the result would
be attained. Women for the same work shoud
receive the same compensation, and yet the
only place where men did not cheat the women
was where women had the right to vote.
	Rev. Olympia Brown,for 20 years a preacher
in the Universalist Church, spoke to the text,
"All are created free and equal." The aris-
tocracy in power, she said, was that of the
moustache, whose insignia was the spittoon,
whose home was the smoking car, and whose
outward sign was the curling tobacco smoke,
and which was dependent upon an accident of
the body. 
	The concluding speaker of the evening was
Lillie-Devereux Blake. Her subject was the
"True Republic." She said the term "repub-
lic." was not fulfilled in this country. A young
woman here who desired to earn her living had
offered to her the alternative of starvation or
degradation. She hoped the Bartholdi statue
would never be erected until women had the
right to vote. 
	It was decided not to hold a morning session
to discuss the resolutions which created such a
tumult during the afternoon.

