Abraham Lincoln Speaks Again Vesta P. Crawford TODAY the career of Abraham Lincoln is being remembered with a new vividness and a new devotion. There are many who think once more of his famous "House Divided" speech and of his immortal words—"With malice toward none." Abraham Lincoln has been called the Great American, the Kingly Commoner, the World's Foremost Citizen. More than four thousand full-length books have been written about his life. Songs and plays have celebrated his words and deeds, his name is a household word throughout the land. It is still the American dream that the most humble boy may some day become President. One of Lincoln's best friends analyzed his remarkable rise to power in these simple words: How such a man as Lincoln could walk up to the highest point of human grandeur, from such low origin, God only knows. But he was so ordained from the beginning, and so it is. From among the thousands of poems written in honor of the Great Emancipator, there is one outstanding composition that bears a message for our times. Written with reference to the first World War and what might have been Lincoln's attitude towards it, this poem is just as true, just as vivid, today and there is a world of thought back of each simple line. At this time of remembering Lincoln, this honoring of his birth. Day, it is entirely suitable to recall the words of the poem "Abraham Lincoln Walks at Midnight." The author is Vachel Lindsay who was born in Springfield, Illinois, in the year 1870. From his boyhood Vachel was familiar with the streets where Lincoln walked, the houses where he lived, the courts where he tried his cases, the fields where he wandered in contemplation. Vachel grew up on the Lincoln stories of how Abraham walked along the streets reading a book, sometimes not even noticing the people who passed, how he stayed very late in his law office pondering over the intricacies of the State code, how he made speeches, homely, understandable speeches, in the days when he was running for office. Vachel Lindsay was familiar with the history of Lincoln's life and he knew also the feel of the same country, the reach of the prairie, the solitude of the forest, the tide of the rivers. He knew the same type of people that Lincoln had known. Very early he heard the story of how young "Abe" came from Indiana to Illinois. This man, this long, tall, bony, homely, wiry, sad, gloomy man floated into our country in 1831, in a frail canoe down the north fork of the Sangamon River, friendless, penniless, powerless, and alone, tagged, struggling for the common necessities of life. In the years between 1905 and 1910 when Vachel Lindsay, the young poet-reformer, was lecturing Page 79 for the Y. M. C. A. And the Anti-Saloon League, he was particularly interested in studying what had been Lincoln's attitude toward the temperance question. He collected the statements of such men as James Gourley, who said: Lincoln was a great temperance man..... He would go afoot five or ten miles to talk..... I got him to join the Sons of Temperance in 1854. And once Lincoln said, "I never drink and am entitled to no credit therefor, because I hate the stuff." Vachel Lindsay studied every phase of Lincoln's character before he began writing his famous poem. The opening lines strike a contemplative mood: It is portentous, and a thing of state That here at midnight in our little town, A mourning figure walks and will not rest, Near the old court-house pacing up and down. No doubt Lindsay was thinking back to what Springfield must have been like when Lincoln first came to the place in 1837, the year that Springfield became the capital of Illinois. Lincoln had left the New Salem country to the east where, two years before, he had seen Ann Rutledge die. She was only twenty-two then, golden-haired and blue-eyed, and Lincoln, who was twenty-six, was already a member of the State Legislature and a man of ability and promise. The poem, in the second verse, tells of the places in Springfield where Lincoln walked: Or by his homestead or in shadowed yards He lingers where his children used to play; Or through the market on the well-worn stones, He walks until the dawn-stars burn away. BY his homestead. That tall house where he and his wife, Mary Todd, lived for many years. The house where Robert Todd Lincoln was born in the year 1843, the place where the other Lincoln boys spent their happiest days, a house where children's voices echoed through the big rooms. The well-worn stones of the street where Lincoln pulled his children in their little wagon. The streets where Lincoln talked with his neighbors who helped him to see the vital problems that faced not only Springfield but every town in America. A bronzed lank man! His suit of ancient black, A famous high-top hat and plain worn shawl, Make his the quaint figure that men love, The prairie lawyer, master of us all. This portrait of Lincoln is familiar to everyone, familiar from picture and poem and story. It has been said that when "Lincoln was moved by some great or good feeling—by some idea of liberty or justice or right—then he seemed an inspired man. It was then that Lincoln's nature was beautiful and in complete harmony with the laws of the great Eternal..... Lincoln was a great man, a good man, and a pure one, and beneath his rough exterior nature wove her fine network." He cannot sleep upon his hillside now, He is among us—as in times before! And we who toss and lie awake for long Breathe deep, and start, to see him pass the door. Upon his hillside. The tomb of Lincoln lies in Oak Ridge Cemetery, Springfield, Illinois. 'The monument which dedicates the burial plot is  ABRAHAM LINCOLN SPEAKS AGAIN made of brick faced with Quincy granite. An obelisk 135 feet high rises from the monument. BUT Vachel Lindsay, the poet, thinks of Lincoln as still alive in the city he loved. His head is bowed. He thinks of men and kings. Yea, when the sick world cries, how can he sleep? Too many peasants fight, they know not why; Too many homesteads in black terror weep. The sins of all the war-lords burn his heart. He sees the dreadnaughts scouring every main. He carries on his shawl-wrapped shoulders now The bitterness, the folly and the pain, Here the interpretation of Lincoln's character is given in its broad strength. For this American believed unwaveringly in the possibilities of everyone. To him there was no living soul who did not have "a kernel of divinity." One of Lincoln's associates, in analyzing his elements of greatness, said: "He was a kind, tender, and sympathetic man, feeling deeply in the presence of suffering, pain, wrong, Or oppression in any shape.... He was just to men, he loved the night, the good, the true, with all his soul. He was always noble..... Mr. Lincoln now stands up against the deep blue sky, the grandest figure of the age." 81 He cannot rest until a spirit dawn Shall come—the shining hope of Europe fie: The league of sober folk, the Worker's Earth, Bringing long peace to cornland, Alp and sea, Those who were privileged to live in Lincoln's generation have borne witness of his limitless courage. "If he was defending right, defending liberty, eulogizing the Declaration of Independence, then he extended out his arms, the palms of his hands upwards, as if appealing to some superior power for assistance and support. It was at such moments that he seemed inspired, fresh from the hands of the Creator," Lincoln's gray eyes would flash fire when he was speaking against slavery, and they spoke volumes of hope and love when he referred to justice, liberty, and the progress of mankind. It breaks his heart that kings must murder still, That all his hours of travail here for men Seem yet in vain. And who will bring white peace That he may sleep upon his hill again? The poem ends with a question, a challenge—who will there be in this time of need to uphold the ideals of Abraham Lincoln and place them upon a standard high enough for all the world to see? "I go for all sharing the privilege of the government who assist in bearing its burden”—Abraham Lincoln Second Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest The Ring of Strength Alice Morrey Bailey MILLIE WALTERS sat very still. Across from her, Dr. Phelps leaned forward through the shaft of afternoon sunlight, intently searching her face, dreading, she knew, to tell her what he had to say. "Cancer," he said finally. "Is it—is it—? Would an operation—" Millie faltered through dry lips. "If you had. Only come sooner! Millie, it's too late. I could operate, yes, but it wouldn't do any good." "How long?" Millie managed. "Six months. Maybe a little more, with care." Dimly she heard his voice going on in prognostication. "Millie, if I didn't know you so well I wouldn't have told you. You make such precious use of time. Can I take you home?" he finished. "I have my car. I'll be all right." "Yes, I think you will," Dr. Phelps said, an edge of admiration in his voice. It was oddly true that Millie was all right. Strange that she could follow the pattern of gear shifting, could thread her way through the heavy traffic of the business district with some cool, mechanical part of her, while the real woman cowered Page 82 ALICE MORREY BAILEY back, unable to cope with this terrifying lump of truth that sat immovable, blocking every normal thought in the roadways of her mind. Strange that, longing as she did to flee to the cool sanctuary of her room, she could go about the usual preparations of the family dinner. Julie, seven, was already home from school and came presently to ask her for a bonnet. "Not a regular bonnet, Mommy. A pi'neer bonnet, you know, that comes out in the front and down in the back." THE RING OF STRENGTH "You mean a slat bonnet? Yes, I can make one. Great-grandmother Preece wore one across the plains when she was your age." Julie leaned her small elbows on the window sill and looked wistfully up to the blossoming pear tree. "Pi'neers were just about the bravest people in the world. They had just lots and lots of courage. I wish I was a pi'neer, don't you, Mother?" ''I certainly do, Julie." Never more than now, she thought, had she wished for the courage of the pioneers. The need for help was heavy upon her. It was too stupendous a burden to bear alone. Her family would be kind to her when she told them, thoughtful. They would ease her tasks, bring her flow-ers and books. That might help. ''Do you think we'd have been pi-neers. Mother? Or do you think we'd have been too scaredy-cats to come across the plains?" 'The Indians are friendly now, good roads are built for us, food is plentiful— we have our lovely homes —I don't honestly know, Julie. I don't know what courage it would take to leave all this and go into an unknown wilderness. I guess we'll never know." AT the dinner table she looked at her family of five as an artist weighs his handiwork, lovingly but critically, at everything about them, their looks, their mannerisms, for every act revealed the character and identity of each. "For Pete's sake," Tod was saying to Anne. "Mother's right. A guy trying to get through medical school has two strikes already on him when he's married." "Not Bob," said Anne. "He wants it as much as I do. I'd work. I'd help him." "Work! Ha! You can't even boil water, rinse your own nylons or make your bed. First thing you'd do is have a b a by. Then wher e 'd he be?" Anne was crestfallen in momentary defeat. "Mother! Diane goes— all the girls are going to the dance— please say I can," begged Lois suddenly. Millie glanced at their father, but he was subdued in his thoughts as if he hadn't heard. "We'll discuss it later," she said. "Look, Small Stuff, you're under seventeen,” said Tod from his lofty twenty years. "Besides, you haven't got a date . Millie, li stening to this non-rancorous banter thought, with sick misgivings: They're spoiled! And I did it. Tod was right about Anne —Lois, too, in the sloppy clothes she wears, tempestuous, unpredictable and immature; wanting poise at the dangerous age of mistaking sophistication for it. Even Tod was presumptuous and overbearing, though he was on the right track educationally. It w as law for his father, and law for him. His logic was good, his justice unshakable, if only Henry would see it and help him. What would the ugly truth hiding within her do to them? Certainly it would as diabolically shift their valuations as it had her own in a few short seconds. Henry was even more dependent on her than were the children, the sort of man who couldn't find a shirt or tie a tie. Millie knew that these things were trivial beside the deeper needs Henry felt for her, his habit, "Not Bob," said Anne. "He wants it as much as I do. I'd work. I'd help him." "Work! Ha! You can't even boil water, rinse your own nylons or make your bed. First thing you'd do is have a b a by. Then wher e 'd he be?" Anne was crestfallen in momentary defeat. "Mother! Diane goes— all the girls are going to the dance— please say I can," begged Lois suddenly. Millie glanced at their father, but he was subdued in his thoughts as if he hadn't heard. "We'll discuss it later," she said. "Look, Small Stuff, you're under seventeen/' said Tod from his lofty twenty years. "Besides, you haven't got a date . Millie, listening to this non-rancorous banter thought, with sick misgivings: They're spoiled! And I did it. Tod was right about Anne —Lois, too, in the sloppy clothes she wears, tempestuous, unpredictable and immature; wanting poise at the dangerous age of mistaking sophistication for it. Even Tod was presumptuous and overbearing, though he was on the right track educationally. It w as law for his father, and law for him. His logic was good, his justice unshakable, if only Henry would see it and help him. What would the ugly truth hiding within her do to them? Certainly it would as diabolically shift their valuations as it had her own in a few short seconds. Henry was even more dependent on her than were the children, the sort of man who couldn't find a shirt or tie a tie. Millie knew that these things were trivial beside the deeper needs Henry felt for her, his habit, me please, Mother. I'm not a child, you know." The usual arguments. "Ask your father," said Millie. "Ask Father?" Lois' jaw dropped and she searched Millie's face for signs of surrender. Henry looked up from his paper, his face blank with surprise. Millie could see the usual words forming in his mind and calmly beat him to it. "It is entirely up to your father. Anything he says is all right with me." To make it more final she left the room. Anne had already gone up-stairs to g et ready for Bob, who was coming at eight. Millie met Tod in the hallway. "Mom, have you gone out of your mind?" he whispered. "Dad'll let her go, and that place is a den of wolves," Millie looked him straight in the eyes. "I'm sure your father's judgment can be trusted," she said, and passed him, "Well, for Pete's sake!"' Anne met her at the head of the stairs. "Mother what am | going to tell Bob? What have you against him? Why don't you let us get Married? | Suppose it is because he is only a student and you think he isn't good enough—" "I think Bob is a very fine young man!" "Then why—?" "I was thinking of Bob)" Anne's eyes were big and unbe. Lieving. "You mean that you think that I-your own daughter—" Millie took Anne's chin into her hand and tilted the flushed face up, looking deeply into the blue eyes. "Anne, when you marry a doctor you marry someone who comes as  THE RING OF STRENGTH neatly being above mortals as humans ever get—a good doctor, | mean. And Bob is going to be that kind. Only one thing could stop him—someone he loves as much as he does you." "But Mother, don't you think that [—?" "The truth is, I don't know. No mother ever loved a child more than I do you, but the biggest share of a mother's love is hope, and the rest blind faith." "Mother, I think you're awful," sobbed Anne as she fled. "I'll be eighteen in another month, and no one can stop me." MILLIE stood there a minute while the weakness and heartache reached up in her, but not for long. Lois was rushing wildly up the stairs. "Mother! Mother, he says I can go. You don't need to tell me what to wear—I know exactly, and Julie can watch me dress, like she does Anne." "What a welcome silence—like turning off the washer," commented Millie later, as the front door closed on the chattering girls. Anne had gone with Bob long since, and Julie was in bed. Tod was rumpling his hair over lessons at the living room desk, and Henry was pacing up his legal problem as Millie picked up her darning. "Better than that," he grumbled. "Like turning off the power in a machine shop." "What's on your mind, Henry? You've been thoughtful all evening." "It's that Moody case. I know that man is guilty—but how to drive it 85 into the open. The whole thing is clouded up with clever psychology. The man seems invulnerable. The whole thing is bound to be laughed right out of court." "I know. It has every aspect of the Wilson case years ago. They got him, though," said Millie, biting off a thread. "The Wilson case," ruminated Henry. "Just how did that go now?" Henry knew that case forward and backward but it was Millie's cue, she knew, to be drawn into it. Suddenly she longed intensely for just that. "T saw Tod cramming on it just the other night. Tod, tell your father about that Wilson case." Henry stopped short in the middle of the floor, gave her an amazed look, and glanced at Tod as if he were an intruder. Millie held her breath, but Tod answered: "Sure Dad. It was like this—" and was off to a brilliant summation when Millie made her escape, murmuring vague excuses. She could see surprise and interest registering on Henty's face, and felt a little pang of jealousy. Their voices rose and fell while she lay rigid in her bed staring into nightmare, worrying over them all, but especially Lois. That place was as Tod said—a den of wolves. What had she done, casting a baby like Lois among them? What had she done to Anne? What invisible tides dragged at a girl cut adrift without the assurance of her mother's faith? And to Henry, sidetracking in his need for her? What of Tod? And what of Julie! When Henry came to bed at ten she feigned sleep, though she heard his sigh of satisfaction and knew his problem was settled, clear-cut in his mind. She lay awake while emotion built up in her, slow anger that she should be cut short of life, of her work as a mother and wife, unreasoned anger at Dr. Phelps. In the face of such futility, ignorance would have been easier.. - - SHE was still awake, fighting the frantic worry over Lois at one o'clock when she felt Henry start with the same thought. Lois should be home now. She should have caught the twelve-forty lineup. Henry should have made arrangements to pick up all the girls at the dance. It had been hard not to point it out to him at their leaving; as hard now to keep still and let him worry alone. Anne, too, should be home. Bob never kept her out after twelve, but Henry wasn't giving her a thought. He was dressing now, interrupting himself to look anxiously out the window at every suggestion of a footstep on the street below. Presently a knock came at the bedroom door. It was Tod, fully dressed, in the light of the hall. "Where do you think the kid is? It's anybody's guess at this time of night." "Sh—. Don't waken your mother. We'll get in the car and go find her." It was another hour of weariness and despair before Anne came, Bob with her. A bedraggled Anne with limp hair and white lips. Bob brought her up the stairs and to Millie's door. Millie sat up, clasping the blankets about her. "There was an accident. We came along right after. Pretty gory, but I think they will all live." Bob was exhausted, but there was 4 lilt of pride in his voice. "Anne was right in there with me. She's solid! The ambulance came finally. I have to report to the police. Got them to let me drop Anne off before she passed out on me. She'll do!" He held up his hand in a little signal of valor and was gone. "Don't get up, Mother. I want to get in with you. Oh, Mother!" Anne collapsed sobbing into Millie's arms, shivering with nervous reaction. Millie tucked the covers around her and patted her, letting her cry until she was warm and quiet. "He was magnificent, Mother. He knew just everything to do. There was a man with a broken leg and a woman with a fractured skull. They were all in shock—broken glass every where. I helped. I did everything Bob told me—but I could see what you mean. Oh Mother, Bob knows so much, and I am so—so ignorant!" "The big thing is, Darling, you got through. You didn't faint, or scream, or pout because he didn't ay attention to you. Some girls would have, you know. You had courage." "Did I, Mother? Oh, Mother, do you think I could learn? He may never need me to help him in his actual work again. I realize this was an accident. What Bob needs is just what you are to me—someone reassuring to come home to—a home well-kept and warm and comfortable. I'm not going to work this summer. I'm going to run the house, and you're going to teach me everything about it that you know. And Mother! There's little sweet  THE RING OF STRENGTH Julie. I want children. Could I learn about them from her? I want to curl her hair, plan her food and her reading, take her places with me, and sew for her." JULIE laughed. "You can start that in the morning, since it is Saturday. She wants a slat bonnet so she can be a 'pi'neer.' Anne, some day I hope you will look back and see what a great load you have lifted from my heart by the things you've just told me." There was a great commotion on the street below. Nothing but a stripped-down car full of high school kids could produce the sputter and roar and too loud laughter. Lois coming home, and immediately the sound of brown car on the drive. There we: e sharp voices in the hallway. Td's demanding: "Does it occur to you, Ant-brain, that someone might be worrying about you? Or that Ye Olde Towne Clocke is still on duty if none of you had watches?" "I've not done a wrong thing, Tod Walters. Why can't I have some fun? Why can't I have some freedom? Can I help it if the other girls got dates at the dance, or if I missed the lineup, or if I had to depend on them to get me home?" Millie turned on her light as they came up the stairs and they all came in, Tod angry, Lois defiant, and Henry sternly judicial. "There's a good deal about this whole affair that could have been helped," he said. His voice was quiet, but edged with a new authority. "In the first place I should never have let you go, Lois, without the 87 proper arrangement and chaperonage. I assure you it will never happen again," That melted Lois. "Oh, gee, Daddy. I'm really sorry. I didn't think anyone would worry. I was all tight." She leaned against the doorjamb in a childish gesture of woe, and wept. "Hi, Kitten," said Tod, unable to bear it. "If you want to step out to dances I'll take you, only not garbed like that. You've got to dress like a lady if you go places with me." "Oh, Tod! Honest?" Instantly Lois was all smiles. "Mommy," she said, rushing over to kneel beside the bed. Anne slipped out to give her a place. "Will you let me have some nylons and a keen dress—the kind Anne wears?" At that moment, a sleepy-eyed Julie appeared in the doorway. Anne smiled and held out her hand as Julie came over to her. "What a family!" smiled Millie looking around at them. There they all were, more closely knit, more welded to purpose, more individually strong than even a few hours back —a circle of growing strength ever so little less dependent on her. And that was her job—any mother's job, to build strength and independence into her family. Tonight was only a pattern of the days to come. There would be the task, there would be the heartache, often despair, perhaps failure, but if tonight were the pattern of triumph, then what could be done in a lifetime—even a short lifetime of six months? Julie broke away from Anne and came to put slim little arms about her mother's neck,  "Mother, I saw you tonight, with courage on your face. You’d have been a pi’neer!” “Oh, Baby!” said Millie, winking back the tears. She looked up at Henry. He and Anne were exchanging that parental look of astonishment. Alice Morrey Bailey, musician, composer, sculptor, artist, and writer, is a remarkably gifted Latter-day Saint woman. In addition to her outstanding accomplishments in the fine arts, she is a skillful nurse and an exemplary wife and mother, At present Mrs. Bailey is organist in the Eleventh Ward (Salt Lake City) M. I. A. And also choir organist. She has served in many other Church organizations and has written several excellent pageants and dramatized programs. Mrs. Bailey won first place in the Utah State Federation of Women's Clubs Poetry Contest in 1941 and second place in 1939. She has twice (1943 and 1945) received the Deseret News Christmas Story award. Readers of theare familiar with Mrs. Bailey's stories and poems. Her story "The Wilderness" placed first in the 1941 Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest and her serial "The Merry-Go-Round" was featured in the Magazine during 1941 and 1942.