TO MARIE (Who lives in the "Flexible House" Madeline Haws The light in the Flexible House burns dim Where the windows were all aglow; The big armchair stands desolate Across from the radio. His chair at the table, long or short, Where many eat or few, Is undisturbed. He is not there To be the host to you. Loneliness—yes—in the Flexible House Though it stretch with all its might! For he isn't there, and everyone knows That he won't be back tonight. But the Flexible House can never be Empty or dark or cold, So long as half of its heart remains, There'll be warmth and love untold! The poem "The Flexible House" by Adeline J. Haws, written in honor of Brother and Sister Leonard Tanner of Salt Lake City, appeared in the Magazine for January 1945. Since that time Brother Tanner has passed away. Sister Marie Tanner, however, still opens wide the door and the "Flexible House" still offers its familiar hospitality.  What the Children Can Do for 1947 Dr. M. Lynn Bennion Superintendent, Salt Lake City Schools Prepared at the Request of the Church Beautification Committee. SCHOOL children of Salt Lake S City will make an intensive study of their home community in preparation for 1947. A workshop was held at the University of Utah, July 30 to August 4, 1945, to prepare material to use in this study. It is planned to have the students themselves write on various aspects of Utah history during the current school year. These materials will be evaluated and organized in a 1946 summer workshop. During the school year of 1946-1947, a significant book on Utah history will be edited ES —Salt Lake Tribune Photograph and published. This publication will be a valuable contribution to our literature on the pioneers and will greatly enhance the understanding and appreciation of our children for their great heritage. A brief, suggested outline for this study has been provided by supervisors and teachers as follows: A Brief History of the Community 1. When and how was the community settled, and why was it settled? 2. Who were the prominent people PIONEER PLOWING IN AN ARID VALLEY Page 93 94  —Photograph by T. J. Howells, M. D. WHERE THE DESERT HAS BLOSSOMED connected with the early history of the community? _ What made these people prominent? Has there been a change in the way people live—industries, farming, and so on? Did any other important historical events occur in addition to those earliest ones listed? Was your region occupied by Indians before the arrival of white men? If so, by what. Tribe? Did they have a village in this region? What was it named? What are the names of the chiefs of whom you have read or heard? Did you ever see a member of this tribe? Are there any remaining evidences of Indian occupation such as: old trails, implements, mounds, graves, planting fields, shell heaps, markings on rocks, and the like? Who was the first white man to reach your community? Why did he come? What was he doing? How and along what route did he come? Can you find stories about the early people who came to this community? What is the story of the first permanent settlement? What was the life of these pioneers, their occupations, methods of making a living, grinding grains, marketing crops, defending themselves from the Indians, hardships, and amusements? 8. What can you find out about the founding of schools, churches, and other social, political, commercial, and industrial institutions of this early community? Are there any of these pioneer people alive today? G. If your community is in a region that at some time in its history has been held by some other country, how and why did it become a colony of that nation? How and why did it fall into American hands? 10. Has your community ever suffered great disasters, by storm, flood, earthquake, or fire? 11. Has your community any historic sites, famous buildings, monuments, parks, drives, or other attractions for visitors? The outline also suggests a thorough study of the community today, covering the following points: