Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, February 1, and February 15, 1886 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women OF ALL NATIONS"' MIDNIGHT MUSINGS The fire burns low upon the hearth, The household sleeps, no cares intrude; Without hath darkness wrap'd the earth, Within I sit in solitude. But not alone, dear voices come Breathing soft cadence in my ear, Which through the day, all wearisome, With rush of work, I could not hear. —Lula EXPERIENCES: To some the experiences they pass through are like beads upon a string, and when the thread of life is cut, they simply roll away out of sight and out of mind. A new business here, a new friendship there; here a lucky accident, there a disastrous failure; here a birth and a rejoicing, there a death and mourning; and, as the mind recalls them, it finds no special meaning attached to them and no connection between them, except that of time or place. Another person comes out of each one fuller, stronger, wiser than before He is accumulating experience, not simply to count it over and recall its pleasure or its pain, but to develop out of it all power and wisdom by which his own life and the lives of all who approach him may be improved.—Editorial. DAVIS STAKE: The Relief Society quarterly conference of Davis Stake was held at Farmington, January 8, 1886, Sister Mary Clark presiding. Presidents William R. Smith and Anson Call met with us for the purpose of re-organizing, or rather appointing a president, as our former president had been called to labor in another capacity. Sister Susan Grant was chosen****Sister President Kimball and Doctor Ellen B. Ferguson were present. They gave us some very good instructions, and urged the mothers to look well to their children; be careful to implant the principles of truth and virtue in their young minds. We had a splendid meeting, a good spirit prevailed, and all seemed to manifest a lively interest in the cause—Rhoda Hinman, Secretary.  A HAPPY HOME: "Six things," says Hamilton, 'are requisite to create a happy home. Integrity must be the architect, and tenderness the upholsterer. It must be warmed by affection and lighted with cheerfulness, and industry must be the ventilator, renewing the atmosphere, and bringing in fresh salubrity day by day; while over all as a protecting glory and canopy, nothing will suffice except the blessing of God."—Selected. Page 97