CRUCIBLE (Benedict Amold and Nathan Hale) Beatrice K. Ekman Two there were of illustrious name, Two were baptized in the fire and flame Of freedom's cause. Where lay the blame? One crowned in honor, one smirched with shame. The scroll is written and rolled away. One loving his country with valor strong Bore the burden and brunt of the battle long; Where the struggle for freedom marches on His deeds live ever in word and song. The scroll is written and rolled away. One, under the smart of his wounded pride, Let mounting resentment become his guide, Until honor and duty were laid aside And the role of a traitor seemed justified. The scroll is written and rolled away. Only God can know when the sands are run How the crucible testing of these was done, What tempered the steel in the soul of one And what tarnished the soul of the man undone. The scroll is written and rolled away. Page 112 And For Eternity Olive Woolley Burt CHAPTER IX Synopsis Delsa Marriott, who has been jilted by Hugh Temple, has been trying to find a way to hide the truth from her friends. At first she showed an interest in Jeff Holden, widower Principal of the school, but the people of the town condemned her for being unfaithful to Hugh. Then she tried to fall in love with Alec Windsor, a visiting marine, but when Alec wants to marry her, Delsa is afraid because Alec thinks of marriage as a temporal contract, while to her it is binding for time and for eternity. Appalled at her failure, she decides to tell her friends the truth and re. Sign herself to the thought of a loveless life. URING the days that followed, Delsa constantly gave thanks for her job?for the children grown restless under the spring sunshine and demanding all her energy during the school hours; for the morning and afternoon chores at Jeff's house; for the spring tasks that absorbed her mother and her aunt Martha and the neighbors. She had at last found courage to tell Hugh's mother of Hugh's letter; had even let her read it. She had found, then, that she needn't have worried about the woman's reaction. In fact, Delsa had felt rather hurt when Hugh's mother had said, after her first uncomprehending exclamations, "Well, I'm glad that it's Hugh that has changed, Delsa. I had almost begun to think that you were going to throw him over for, say, Jeff Holden. I couldn't have borne that, Delsa?having Hugh thrown over while he was out fighting." Delsa thought bitterly, no, but she can stand this. She loves me, too, but she loves Hugh more. Hugh's her son and I'm just the girl he had planned to marry, And she found it not too difficult to tell the girls, They, too, were astounded at first, but they accepted that fact as they accepted so many others, so many facts that meant infinitely more to them, with an exclamation, a shrug, and then forgetfulness in the busy world they had all entered. When Delsa said doubtfully, "I suppose now I am ineligible for the War Widows Club," they laughed and winked at her. "You'll Probably be eligible again when Alec goes," they said, "so you might as well keep right in!" So that's settled, Delsa thought, and wondered just how much her happiness meant to anyone but herself and her immediate family. Then she shook her head at her bitterness, realizing that there were so many harassing events, so much personal worry and work in the world that each one had all he could do to keep going with his own troubles and had little emotional energy left for other people. Alec was a godsend, Delsa admitted. True to his promise, he refrained from "rushing" her, but he was constantly on hand to take her Page 113 to the picture show, to walk home with her from school, to go riding with her after school or on Saturdays. This helped immeasurably, for instead of pitying her because she had lost Hugh, the other girls envied her because she had a good-looking escort in days when escorts were more highly prized than ever before. Even Jeff wasn't too difficult. He'd come into her schoolroom after the children were dismissed on_ that Monday following her announcement, and had stood looking down at Delsa, his eyes remote, but his smile friendly. "I want to apologize, Delsa," he said quietly. "I acted like a fool yesterday. It is none of my business, of course, what you do. I guess I just let my own feelings get the better of me." "I was hurt that you would imply that I had so lightly tossed away Hugh," Delsa answered him, just as seriously, just as honestly. "You'll forgive me, Delsa?" his voice was urgent. DELSA nodded, and went on in "~ spite of herself, "And I'll tell you this, Jeff. Hugh had asked me to release him from his promise long before I ever saw Alec Windsor." Jeff held up his hand as if to stop her. "It's none of my business, Delsa. That's the main thing for me to remember," he couldn't keep the bitterness out of his voice. "If that's the main thing, Jeff, there is no need for us to discuss it. I had a notion that my happiness?" "Oh, Delsa, Delsa, let's not quarrel. We are adult enough, I hope, to refrain from hurting each other just for the fun of it." Delsa looked at him. If that was the way he wanted it, it was all right with her. She was hurt, though, because she had always thought of Jeff as a tower of strength, one to whom she could speak freely. But if he wanted to hide behind this hurt front and let her work out her problem alone, there was nothing she could do about it. She said, "All right, Jeff. Everything is back to normal." She went to the board and began erasing the lesson written there, and Jeff turned silently and left the room. When school was out, Delsa hadn't known whether to go over to Jeff's to take care of the children or not. She hesitated just a moment, and then, seeing Jeff busy with his older boys cleaning up the school yard, she thought, why make the babies suffer for our troubles? I'll just dash over and see what Mrs. Reeder is doing, give the children the once over, and be away before ever Jeff gets home. When she went into the house she was glad of her decision. Davy had upset a saucepan of boiling water, and while only a little of it had splashed over him, the scalded spots were dreadfully painful. He was sobbing distractedly, his face buried in the pillow. Mrs. Reeder had put some soda and water on the spots and wrapped a cloth over them, but it was clumsily done. Delsa gathered the little boy close, kissing his tousled head. "There, there, Davy, don't cry. Aunt Delsa will fix it up. Aunt Delsa knows where Daddy has some  AND FOR ETERNITY magic salve?it'll stop the hurt in no time. Come and see." She carried him into the bathroom, opened the medicine chest and let him look in it with her. She held up the bottles and tubes, attracting his attention until she found the tube of tannic acid jelly. It was a bright green tube, and she held it up crying, "See, Davy, here it is. This is what Daddy uses." Davy looked at her, only slightly curious, but his sobs had ceased. She took some sterilized gauze and said, "Do you want to squeeze the salve out, Davy? It is kind of hard for Aunt Delsa. You have to be real strong to make it come out." Davy accepted the challenge and squeezed the end of the tube. When the salve came squirting out onto the gauze he smiled. Delsa made a neat, expert bandage on the chubby little hand, and Davy watched her, half forgetting his pain in the excitement of being done up so prettily. "Now let's go show Trudy our bandage, just like a big soldier's," Delsa said, and led Davy in to show his sister. Mrs. Reeder said crossly, "He ought to be spanked, that's what! He's always into something. I told him to get away from the stove?" Delsa understood that the woman was trying to salve her own conscience for her negligence, and she answered coldly, "He's been punished for his misdeed, but what punishment should be given to the one who was in charge of him?" "Don't you threaten me, Miss Delsa!" the woman cried angrily. "I don't have to work here! I don't have to stay here day after day, chasing that kid from morning till night 115 for a measly few dollars a week. I can get a war job, I can, and make big money and take no one's sass!" Delsa was frightened. What if Mrs. Reeder did take a notion to leave? What would Jeff do then? She went over to the woman, smiling placatingly in spite of her anger. "Now, now," she said quietly, "we're all upset. It hurts us almost as much as it does the child to see him suffer. Sit down, Mrs. Reeder, and let me make you some toast and cocoa. The children are trying, I know." So now, Delsa thought, as she waited on the woman, I have Mrs. Reeder to take care of, as well as the babies. Oh, why did I ever get tangled up in this anyway? But after that night, even though Jeff seldom spoke to her and never let down the bars of reserve he had put up, Delsa went to his house faithfully every night, and took care of the babies. JEFF acknowledged her kindness? he made it a point to thank her and to tell her how much it meant to the children. But aside from that and from the routine business of the school, they exchanged few words. Jeff was never in the house while Delsa was there, and that made it easier for her. If Jeff watched her coming and going?if he noted how rapidly she finished her self-appointed chores, he probably laid it to her haste to get through and to meet Alec Windsor, who was usually waiting to walk home with her. There was a funny old gnarled tree. About a block from Jeff's gate. Alec would sit there on the rough seat made by the roots that had pushed up from the ground, and wait for Delsa. When she came even with him he would leap up, take her arm, and walk along beside her, talking nonsense, making her laugh, making her forget the worries of the day. 'And if she was particularly lonely or depressed or weary he would be especially gentle with her, sensing her mood, matching his own temperament to hers. It was a sweet knack, Delsa thought gratefully, Hugh had had it, too. She caught herself remembering Hugh when she was with Alec, and in spite of the pleasure of being with him there was an ache where happiness had once glowed. One evening Alec said, "Delsa, darling, ten whole days of my leave have gone. Can you realize it? Ten whole days! There aren't many left." He stopped, waiting for Delsa to acknowledge the unspoken plea behind his words. She walked along silently, her eyes on the dusky roadway ahead. "I?ve done everything I could to make you love me," he went on wistfully, so much like a small, earnest boy that Delsa smiled in spite of herself. "And all you do is laugh!" he added disconsolately. "Alec, Alec! I don't laugh at you. I am too fond of you for that." "Fond!" he spit the word out. "Is that all? Fond!" Again the smile curved Delsa's lips. She couldn't make herself believe that Alec was in deadly earnest. She knew he had had letters from Helen, his faraway betrothed, and she couldn't picture him as one who could actually throw himself into a permanent alliance with one girl while still promised to another. He was too much like Hugh. He would write and ask for a release first. Had he done so? She said seriously, "Nellie Gibson tells me you write to a WAC, and that you get letters from one. You are not really in earnest with me, Alec. You don't love mean you love her, do you?" He was not angry, but he tried to sound so. "Doesn't that postmaster know it's illegal to read a person's mail?" he asked. "He has to read the address?or at least that's permitted, isn't it? And if he mentions it at dinner, say, why then Nellie knows it, and she feels obliged to let her teacher know how much she knows." Alec kicked at the dust of the sidewalk, like a small boy meditating. Then he said, "Look here, Delsa, you?re in a sort of jam, I know. I'm no more deaf than Nellie Gibson is, and I hear what's going on. I do love you, too," he added on a deeper note. "And I may never see Helen again." There was such a wistfulness in his words that Delsa laid her hand on his sleeve. "Listen, Alec," she said softly. "I know you love me?and I love you, too, really. But neither of us loves as we should love to stand up before God and the world and promise fidelity to each other through time?" "And eternity," Alec breathed softly. After a moment he went on, "Maybe you're right, Delsa. I don't know. I only know that when I look at you, when I hear your voice, I want to take you in my arms and  AND FOR ETERNITY hold you close. And when I can't look at you, when I can't hear your voice, I ache with longing for you." HER hand was still on his arm, and she stopped and turned toward him, lifting her face toward his. The early moon shone down through the branches of the trees where small buds were swelling with the urgency of life, and the Sweetness of springtime came to them from the hills and the fields. "I know, I know," she whispered. "Oh, believe me, Alec, I understand what you feel, I feel it, too?" is arms went about her and drew her toward him, but she did not yield in his embrace. She said, "It must be more than that longing, Alec. It must be more than that ache. That may be just loneliness, just the desire 'for love. If you really loved me there wouldn't be any Helen?anywhere at all?" "There won't be, if you'll marry me, Delsa. There won't be, ] Promise you." remembrance was enough to make him cling desperately to any semblance of stability that he could grasp. Oh, if he really loved me, she thought, I would be tempted to give him that feeling that there was some- 117 thing permanent in the world. But could I? Could I, unless my heart that sense of reality. Or did you take in your young eager hands only a shadow? Did you, who had been reared to look for more than this life promises, who had been taught to look far, ? past the g world?did you find the treasure that would fill your heart and your days for ever and ever? Alec bent his head, but he did not try to kiss her. He laid his cheek against her hair. "Don't be troubled, Delsa darling whispered, troubled." He was silent for a long time and then he went on with a anyway, I'm sure it is teal And what more can we ask, Delsa, what more?" The spell was broken. Delsa drew away from him, took his arm and started walking slowly beside him. "You're asking a childish question Alec, and I won't answer it. Come, we must hurry, or we']| be late for Supper?and Mother Promised you biscuits, remember?" (To be concluded ) NOTES FROM THE FIELD Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104. MESSAGES FROM THE MISSIONS (Continued ) Danish Mission Ev=VA M. GREGERSEN, President of the Danish Mission Board, reports on the extensive activities of the Relief Societies in her country. "The Mission Board today is the same as the one President Garff set apart before he left Denmark almost six years ago. In spite of many difficulties we have been happy that we have succeeded in keeping together all these years and in doing what little we could to keep the Relief Society work up in the Danish Mission. We hope that the time is not so far away when we again can receive help and instructions from Zion. We need them badly. "However, we are happy to say that the Lord has blessed us wonderfully in our work in spite of everything. We have had board meetings in my home every month and, if necessary, oftener. Besides the more ordinary things, such as visiting the sick and needy, helping with funerals, giving financial aid when deemed necessary, and especially at Christmas time, when all our old members have received some little encouragement, giving at least one good yearly outing for our old members, etc., we have during the war taken up the work of helping our Page 118 starving brother-land, Norway. Together with the mission office, we have been giving money to this purpose and every month many nice packages with food have been sent to our brothers and sisters in Norway, who have been thankful beyond words. "Even if the food situation in Denmark has been better than in other European countries, we have also had our difficulties to fight, and the Mission Board has felt the necessity of sending instructions to all our Relief Societies about gathering extra food supplies for an emergency. And the different Relief Societies have responded wonderfully and have had in store many valuable things which ordinarily were very hard to get. We are very, very thankful to the Lord that peace came instead of invasion at the time when we dreaded it most, so our food supply was not needed as badly as it might have been, but the Relief Society was prepared to help in every way possible. Now, the things have either been sent to Norway or given to the saints, and some of them were sold to get money for other purposes. "On March 17, 1942, we had a great celebration all over the mission NOTES FROM THE FIELD 119 DANISH MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Left to right: counselor; Valborg Johansen, First Counselor; Eva M. Gregersen, President. Fanny Jacobsen, Secretary-Treasurer; Johanne Ostrup, Second Coun- (Photograph submitted by Eva M. Gregersen) and the Mission Board was busy a long time ahead. I wish you could have seen our celebration here in Copenhagen. For once we got permission to have a banquet in the big hall, and a wonderful banquet it was. The program was excellent and the Mission Board was represented, too, of course. Sister Ostrup had written a lovely poem for the occasion, and I wrote a prologue with the title "You Are Needed, O Woman, on Earth.? I had likewise translated a suitable play for the occasion. All these things, of course, were sent out to the mission branches. We had reports from all branches of good socials and meetings. The Sunday night program had been sent out by the Mission Board and had been a great success. "Another occasion we remember with joy was the Centennial Memorial of the death of the Prophet Joseph Smith. On this occasion we had saints from all of Denmark gathered here in Copenhagen and President West gave us permission to have one day "for Relief Society work. We had a wonderful meeting in the big hall, where all the branches were represented. All the members of the Board talked to the sisters. Sister Valborg Johansen, my first counselor, talked on the subject 'Recreation in the Relief Society.' My second counselor, Sister Johanne Ostrup, talked on "What Can We Learn From Our Sisters in Relief Society in the U. S. A., Especially Concerning Ward Teacher Work? Sister Fanny Jacobsen, Secretary-treasurer, talked on "The Financial Side of Relief Society Work,' and I talked on the lesson work, and, besides, tried to answer all the questions the sisters asked, and they were many. We wish we could have many meetings of that kind. "At this meeting our new choir, the Singing Mothers, sang for us under the direction of Sister Valborg Johansen. The Board has taken a great interest in this work. Sister Ostrup has written about it in the Star and has done what she could to encourage it. "Of course, the lesson work has been a great problem, but we have tried to keep it going with old lessons. Sometimes we have borrowed material from other organizations, and for a long period I wrote some lessons in letter form, 'from heart to heart,' presenting practical and religious problems in question form, and sent them out once a month. The saints wrote and asked for more of the same kind. We always have the three kinds of lessons in the month: theology, literature, and social science. 'The fourth meeting is free to be spent as the sisters see fit, either work-meeting, testimony, or special programs. "In the whole of Denmark there are only 174 members on the books, but when one sees the yearly reports, I feel that we have reason to be thankful for the results. Visits to the sick amounted last year to 1024 and 119 families were helped. "But we are longing for help. We long for the Magazine and for the lessons and instructions. Please give our co-workers our love and greetings. Tell them we pray for them and will be very happy to hear from them. And when the time comes that we again can receive visits from the US. A., words cannot express how great our joy will be." British Mission EXCERPTS from a letter, dated July 31, 1945, from Sister Eda V. Longbone, secretary in the British Mission office, to Sister Maude F. Hanks, president of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society: "It has been raining, now don't you go and say that it is always raining in England, most Americans do, you know. However, the sun does shine at times and today is one of those times. It really is lovely out. Ravenslea stands on the corner and faces the park so we get plenty of open space and can view lots of green trees, grass and some flowers. As I say, it is fine today; yesterday it was raining. The thing that has come to me is that our trees, etc. Look all the greener and fresher for the rain, wind and storm they have gone through. Today they are able to look up at the sun, seemingly smile, and are able to stretch out long arms upwards, strong, green, lovely and sweet scented. Why? Because yesterday in the storm they took it properly. They just dug their roots in farther, took in all the nourishment they could from the rain and just held on until all was over. We humans are not much like that, for when the storm comes, often we wilt down under it, we forget that it is for our good and advancement. Then, when the sun does shine again, we are not able to take full benefit from it, because we are not any stronger, nor sweeter nor fresher for the storms of yesterday.  "This past week-end has been a busy one for us at the mission home. We always take in what service boys we can, and this time we had four staying for the two days. The other day one of our boys (our boys are the finest the world over, you know) did one of the sweetest, and finest he did not do it with that object in mind. He did it because his heart is in the right place. His name is Millard Earl Gooch, a lieutenant in the Air Force. His job at the moment is, as I understand it, to take U. S. troops from various parts of Europe to England, on leave and on duty, so he gets here at times for a night.
"This lad is one of my lambs. Each of us missionaries has special boys that we sort of like and mother or sister particularly, and we call them our lambs. Earl Gooch is one of mine. He comes from Salford, Avizona.
"Apparently at times he is some where in Poland, and there has become acquainted with some of the Poles. When he came to us at first he told us something of these people, how nice they were, also how ragged up they were for clothes, even to needles and cotton for sewing. They were not members of the Church, he said, but that did not make any difference. He would get anything for them in the way of knitting yarn on ships. As you know, he could not, but we did get some colored silks for stitching, and one or two little knick-knacks like that. Then two of us gave him five coupons, I gave two, another gave two. We fixed him for bed clothing or two things, two pairs of stockings, the not fully fashioned are only one and one-half coupons each, and two colored head scarfs, one coupon each.
"When he returned to the office you would have thought he had been able to buy the wealth of the Indies he was so pleased. Then mission mother, Sister Florence Dunn, got to know of this little project of his and made him up a parcel of used clothing. She felt that the need was indeed justified.
"He is a very young, smart lieutenant, but he did not mind hugging his cumbersome parcel off with him when he went back to Poland. Now we have had two letters from two of the little girls he helped in Poland. I enclose one of them for you to see. I dare say, like me, you will not be able to read it. According to his letter ' (very beautiful clothing) girls are so happy, and were eager that he should send their letters right away, in case we thought they were ungrateful. Several have benefited by his sweet act of kind thoughtfulness, for he goes on to say 'You should see them. Polish, Russian, Dutch, and French all promenading with their felt slipshoes on their (very beautiful clothing).'
"President Brown has gone on the Continent to hold services with the boys, and according to reports, the one he held in Paris was a great success. He was before a thousand present for the three meetings of the trip, and their spirituality was enjoyed by all who were privileged to be present."
On the passing of Britain's oldest Church member, Sister Fola Longbone writes:
"Sister Johanna Porter, affectionately known as 'Granny Jo,' was at the home of her daughter, Ruth Amy Tomes, in Waterlooville, near Portsmouth, Hampshire, England, 17th July 1945, in her 101st year. She is survived by three children, twenty grandchildren, seventeen greatgrandchildren and two great-greatgrandchildren. "She was born at Cowes, Isle of Wight, England, 5th October 1844, and was baptized first into the Church at the age of fifteen years. Later she received baptism again, as many of her day did. "Granny Porter was an old Relief Society sister. In her early days she acted as a midwife, and as the scenes of her activities were situated far from any existent branch, she made it a practice to carry with her a bottle of consecrated oil, which, on rare but urgent occasions, she used with humble prayer on newly born infants. In each case, the use of it was efficacious. "Of later years, when her activities were curtailed by age, she would read from cover to cover Theand give many of its wise teachings to the younger ones who liked to gather round her. Another book she loved was the Doctrine and Covenants. She would pour over it for hours, often with difficulty, for her sight grew weaker with her passing years. She used a magnifying glass and would pick out the words slowly and painstakingly with the aid of that. "Another thing Granny Porter used to recall with great satisfaction was that her mother, Mary Ann Tippett, one of the very early converts to the Church, used to spend hours tracting and preaching the newly restored gospel in her district, and at times her daughter accompanied her. "The funeral ceremony took place at her home. Duning it, her body lay peacefully among a host of floral tributes, sweet scented and colorful, from many relatives and friends who loved her for her gentle ways and kindly words. London's District President, George F. Poole, conducted the ceremony and later dedicated the grave. 'The speakers were Sister Eda V. Longbone, representing the mission office, and Elder Darwin Gubler of the American Army. "The last earthly resting place of this aged sister is in a little cemetery situated among the green fields near her home. From this place many miles of English countryside can be seen, cultivated fields, and away in the distance lies the blue strip of sea, known as the English Channel. "The day she was carried there was, though windy, sweet and fresh. It seemed just the setting and right send-off for this small-built woman who had spent the greater part of her 100 34 years in active service to others. To the very last she was a faithful Latter-day Saint." Stuttgart Dist. (German Mission) MARIA R. SPEIDEL, President Stuttgart District Relief Society, German Mission, reports on the activities of the branches in her district, the first report to come from Germany since the beginning of the Wal: "May we, your sisters in the gospel from across the waters and from a war-torn world, greet you and wish  NOTES FROM THE FIELD upon you our Heavenly Father's choicest blessings. "The past five years have been difficult ones and we have become very humble. Our trust in the Lord and our testimony of his Church have been our pillar of strength. He has kept us mercifully, and although there was much to suffer, he has given to us a measure of his strength. Some of us have lost all our earthly Possessions, every tangible thing ever dear to us, and when we sav It is better to walk with God in the darkness than without him in the light, we know whereof we speak. "Since July 14, 1933, it has been my pleasure and responsibility to Preside over the Relief Societies in the Stuttgart District. We number five districts: Esslingen, Feuerbach, Goeppingen, Heilbronn, and Stuttgart. "I am thrilled to inform you that all during the war we were able to hold our meetings regularly every week. The sisters are working together in love and harmony. Hardships have brought about 'a closer understanding. "On September 30, 1945, we held our belated spring conference. The Relief Society had charge of the Saturday night meeting. We chose 'Women of the Bible' for the topic. "We are looking forward to the time when we shall be privileged once more with a representative from headquarters. We remember with fond emotions Sister Laura Salzner, Susan Kelly, and Evelyn Wood. "The coming winter will be a most difficult one. We are short of everything, but we want to feel that the trials of today are Preparing us for the blessings of tomorrow1. 23 MARIA R. SPEIDEL President, Stuttgart District Relief Society, German Mission.. With  joy we sing the songs of Zion and put our trust in the Lord. He maketh all things well." Southern States Mission From the Southern States Mission Relief Society comes the following report: "As a part of the cultural program of the Relief Society in the Southern States Mission, Sister Effie Meeks, Relief Society President, has been stressing the art of homemaking. Believing that the visual method is the most effective way to teach, Sister Meeks has been conducting demonstrations of different home arts at the district quarterly conferences. "These demonstrations have been carried out most successfully in most of the districts and have been found very satisfactory to the Relief Society members in developing within them a greater appreciation of culture and refinement in the home. "Sister Meeks has also suggested to the members that they acquire a hobby, a hobby that has a purpose other than the utilization of their leisure time. It is suggested that hobbies be selected which are related to the art of home building. "The following is a list of hobbies which have been suggested and are being used by members throughout the Mission: Shell Craft: We are not only making shell jewelry, but decorating perfume bottles, rosebud vases, tea bells, and many dishes with shell designs. In the South Carolina District artistic vases were made of olive bottles covered with the long pine needles, varnished and trimmed with the pine cones. They are very attractive and unique. Inexpensive glassware with an edge of pretty colored nail polish was also demonstrated. The products of home gardens, flowers and vegetables were displayed in the Mississippi District. Inspirational talks were given along with the demonstration as to how the children were taught to love the life of the seed, and to watch the development of the plant as it grows so that the children will learn to love gardening. Garden clubs are being organized out in some of the districts. The making of negro dolls was demonstrated in the Georgia District. Our sisters have been thrifty in buying mill-end materials from the cotton mills to make sheets, pillowcases, and quilts when they could not go to the stores and find these utilities. JACKSONVILLE BRANCH, SOUTHERN STATES MISSION Sister Clarice Skinner displaying her hobby. These attractive bedspreads and curtains were made from feed sacks which a less artistic and frugal woman might have used as dish towels. Through her hobby Sister Skinner has added much beauty to her home.  NOTES FROM THE FIELD 125 JACKSONVILLE BRANCH, SOUTHERN STATES MISSION Miss Clare DeLoach demonstrating the table appointments and correct arrangement of the silver for a formal dinner. She states: "Few opportunities to display one's tast that which is offered in arranging the table. E and individuality can be compared with Candlelight and flowers, the sparkling luster of glass, are attributes that assure the success of a dinner, be it formal or informal, for as the guests sit down to a charming table they readily respond in a festive mood to such a setting." "Sister Lena Johnson of Cowley, Wyoming, while here on her mission, traveled in several of the districts and taught in the Relief Society meetings the different arts that could be developed by using up scrap materials. She did a beautiful work. "Not only do our sisters learn the necessity of the different art crafts to beautify their homes, but they learn to love this part of the country in which they live by converting materials into articles which are characteristic of the Southland. They build up this part of God's vineyard, which is so attractive, and acquaint the rest of the world with it. "Through the development of these arts the most humble home may be a place of culture, refinement and beauty. Such a home will always be more attractive to the family, and the spirit of our Heavenly Father will abide in all good Latter-day Saint homes."