The Building of Temples Continues Dr. H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday May 7, 1946 Objective: To show that God provides for the fulfillment of all his purposes. AMONG the many glorious things that came to Joseph Smith on the night of September 21, 1823, were the words concerning the coming of Elijah. There in the celestial brightness of his humble room, this young American Prophet received wisdom from the heavenly messenger, Moroni. Joseph wrote of the event as follows: After telling me these things, he commenced quoting the prophecies of the Old Testament. He first quoted part of the third chapter of Malachi; and he quoted also the fourth or last chapter of the same prophecy, though with a little variation from the way it reads in our Bible. Instead of quoting the first verse as it reads in our books, he quoted it thus: For behold, the day cometh that shall bum as an oven, and all the proud, yea, all that do wickedly shall burn as stubble; for they that come shall burn them, saith the Lord of Hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch. And again, he quoted the fifth verse thus: Behold, I will reveal unto you the Priesthood, by the hand of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. Page 128 He also quoted the next verse differently: And he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers. If it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at his coming. In addition to these, he quoted the eleventh chapter of Isaiah, saying that it was about to be fulfilled. He quoted also the third chapter of Acts, twenty-second and twenty-third verses, precisely as they stand in our New Testament. He said that that prophet was Christ; but the day had not yet come when "they who would not hear his voice should be cut off from among the people," but soon would come. He also quoted the second chapter of Joel, from the twenty-eighth verse to the last. He also said that this was not yet fulfilled, but was soon to be. And he further stated that the fulness of the Gentiles was soon to come in. He quoted many other passages of scripture, and offered many explanations which cannot be mentioned here (Joseph Smith, 2:36-41). Today, some one hundred and twenty odd years since that evening in the early fall of 1823 on the Palmyra farm, a great Church with followers throughout the world, has LESSON DEPARTMENT come to know the mighty mission of Elijah and the explanations of his work which then the Prophet said could not be mentioned. It has been within the sacred temples of the Lord built by the Latter-day Saints within this century that much of the work of turning the hearts of the children to their fathers and the hearts of the fathers to their children has taken place. The Lord knew that giving men their free agency would, of necessity, bring waywardness and heartaches. But he was willing to suffer these things to be, since he also knew that the greatest joy comes through the personal struggle to conquer self and sin; that salvation is not something that comes suddenly, but rather it is that process of day-by-day living that teaches us the folly of our weaker ways and the blessings of our stronger moments. We must learn to know?through firsthand experience?why the Lord's way is always the right way. Then, when living has made this truth ours, we will love him the more dearly because of his infinite patience and understanding. There, too, will come the joy of seeing others dear to us rise in the majesty of self-control. The great mercy of our Heavenly Father provides in such a plan for life the encompassing of man's preexistent, mortal, and post-mortal years. Further, the Lord's plan provides that a place be established where links between the earth and the heavens may be bound, a place in the world where men as well as heavenly beings may find communion. Such a place is in the temples of the Most High. And since there are ordinances to be performed and endowments to be received here on 129 earth, the binding effect of which is to be realized both in this world and in the world to come, again the reason is apparent why such a place of meeting should be. With the coming of the dispensation of the fulness of times which the Prophet Joseph Smith was called to usher in, the Lord had said that the fulness of the Gentiles was at hand. Now he would bring about the fulfilment of prophecies pertaining to the last days and hasten the work of redemption of the faithful both for those upon the earth and those who had gone beyond. His word should be preached in the spirit world as well as to men here and, by means of his temples which should steadily be built until they would dot the earth, all the righteous could become his people. By the thousands, then, men and women in the flesh could become saviors on Mount Zion (Rev. 14:1) by helping to redeem their dead and bring about the great family of elect in Israel. So important was to be this work that the gathering of names of dear ones long since gone would become a major assignment of those living, that, by proxy, the steps not completed for entrance into the kingdom through the waters of baptism might be performed. The Christ was indeed to draw all men who would come unto his bosom. Greatly aware of the need for this work and the weight of responsibility which rested upon him, the Prophet Joseph Smith soon made clear to his gathering saints that they must sacrifice to obtain the blessings of heaven. And so within six years after the organization of the Church, there stood up- on the rich soil of Ohio the first house of the Lord in this dispensation erected by the saints at a cost of inestimable sacrifice. This simple but solid and stately temple was set upon a hill and lifted its spire above the majestic trees of Kirtland. Writes Edward W. Tullidge:... It was commenced in June, 1833, under immediate direction of the Almighty, through his servant, Joseph Smith, whom he called in his boyhood, like Samuel of old, to introduce the fulness of the everlasting gospel. At that time the saints were few in number, and most of them very poor; and had it not been for the assurance that God had spoken, and had commanded that a house should be built to his name, of which he not only revealed the form but also designated the dimensions, an attempt towards building that Temple, under the then existing circumstances, would have been, by all concerned, pronounced preposterous... Its dimensions are eighty by fifty-nine feet; the walls fifty feet high, and the tower one hundred and ten feet. The two main halls are fifty-five by sixty-five feet in the inner court. The building has four vestries in front and five rooms in the attic, which were devoted to literature and for meetings of the various quorums of the priesthood. There was a peculiarity in the arrangement of the inner court which made it more than ordinarily impressive?so much so that a sense of sacred awe seemed to test upon all who entered. Not only the Saints, but strangers also, manifested a high degree of reverential feeling. Four pulpits stood, one above another, in the center of the building, from north to south, both on the east and west ends.... In front of each of these two rows of pulpits was a sacrament table, for the administration of that sacred ordinance. In each comer of the court was an elevated pew for the singers?the choir being distributed into four compartments. In addition to the pulpit-curtains were others, intersecting at right angles, which divided the main ground-floor hall into four equal sections, giving to each one-half of one set of pulpits From the day the ground was broken for laying the foundation of the Temple, until its dedication on the 27th of March, 1836, the work was vigorously prosecuted. With very little capital except brain, bone, and sinew, combined with unwavering trust in God, men, women, and even children, worked with their might. While the brethren labored in their departments, the sisters were actively engaged in boarding and clothing workmen not otherwise provided for?all living as abstemiously as possible so that every cent might be appropriated to the grand object, while their energies were stimulated by the prospect of participating in the blessing of the house built by the direction of the Most High, and accepted by him. ?TULLIDGE, E. W., Life of Joseph, the Prophet, pp. 187-189; See Lundwall, N. B., Temples of the Most High, pp. 7-11. One week following the dedication of the Kirtland Temple, it being the Sabbath, April 3, 1836, Joseph Smith the Prophet and Oliver Cowdery had retired to the pulpit, the veils being dropped. They bowed in solemn prayer. As they arose a marvelous vision was opened to both of them (See Doc. And Cov. 110). How glorious had been the fulfillment of the words of the Angel Moroni! Since this day of the coming of the Lord to his temple, the saints have gone on, at times under the most trying circumstances, to build other houses to the Lord, and within these have found the soul-enriching experiences promised those who would go about the work of salvation for their dead. As the work of the Lord progresses, the great temple to be erected in Missouri will one day be a reality, the corner stones of which were laid August 3, 1831. Pointing to that day and in preparation for it there have been built upon the earth the following temples erected by a people devoted to the King of heaven and the fulfillment of his excellent word. The Genealogical Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which was established in 1894 as the Genealogical Society of Utah, to forward the vital program of the Church in the matter of temple work for the living and dead, was reincorporated for one hundred years on November 20, 1944, and its name changed as given above In addition to the many services offered to members of the Church in assisting them to do temple work for the living and dead, the Genealogical Society also maintains a library for g enealogical research which includes at the present time over 30,000 printed volumes and over 4,000 volumes of microfilm records (including over one million pages of original records from North Carolina and three-quarters of a million pages from Tennessee). It has the largest foreign section of any genealogical library in America and includes many unique collections among which is a copy of Boyd's Marriage Index containing the names of six million Persons who Married in England..  LESSON DEPARTMENT  The only other copy of this Marriage Index is in London, England. Names of temples, dates of dedication, and by whom dedicated follow: Kirtland?March 27, 1836-  Prophet Joseph Smith. Nauvoo?May 1, 1846?Elders Orson Hyde and Wilford Woodruff. St. George?April 6, 1877? Daniel H. Wells. 131 Logan?May 17, 1884?President John Tayor Manti?May 21, 1888?Elder Lorenzo Snow. Salt Lake?April 6, 1893?Presjdent Wilford Woodruff. Hawaiian?November 27, 1919? President Heber J. Grant. Alberta?August 26, 1923?President Heber J. Grant. Arizona?October 23 President Heber J. Grant. Idaho Falls?September 23, 1945 ?President George Albert Smith,  Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion P of the Suggestive readings given below have the class carry on discussion as follows: first, answer the questions, second read the assigned part of the text to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word.? 1. To understand more fully the things of God and the great blessings given in his temples one might well begin by learn. 46:10-33 with the notes following found in the Commentary 2. Within the temples of the Most High the saints are drawn closer to the world beyond. How can one here in life learn to know the true from the false spirit in Preparation for the finer things of the Lord? Read Doc. And Coy. 50. The supreme joys to be found in the temples of the Lord cannot truly be discussed, they are to be lived in sacred places. It is hoped, therefore, that this second series on Church history has in some way awakened a desire for those who have studied to make themselves worthy of the Lord's greatest blessings to be given in his holy temples. For pictures of Latter-day Saint temples see A Relief Society Century, page 64. Visiting Teachers' Messages Sources of Strength?Charity Lesson 8?