HEART FUND DOLLARS — A HOPE FOR BETTER LIFE The American Heart Association World-wide efforts are being made to conquer the Number One Cause of Death, Heart and Circulatory Diseases. In many countries, associations and scientific groups operate on a voluntary basis to carry out programs of research, professional and public education, and community. Service for the millions of people afflicted by heart disease. Thanks to the generosity of people in all walks of life, educational materials for free distribution to the public are prepared by the American Heart Association and its affiliates in every state of the United States. There is great hope for prevention and treatment of heart diseases through research and education. Wives and mothers are made aware of the problems created by rheumatic fever and inborn heart defects among children; how heart attacks and strokes may afflict the breadwinners of their families; and how the other cardiovascular diseases also create critical health and economic problems in countless homes. "For Advice About Your Heart, Ask Your Doctor; For Information, Ask Your Heart Association.'"' This is the theme wherever there is a Heart Association. Literature available on request covers almost all heart and circulatory diseases: heart attack, stroke, rheumatic fever, high blood pressure, diet and heart disease, smoking and heart disease, congenital heart defects, heart murmurs, varicose veins, and many others. Millions of people support the heart fund by giving both time and money for its life-saving programs. Heart Fund dollars give hope for life. 105 it _ "Ou, Mommy, Mommy, Mommy," Lavina called excitedly at the sight of the first valentine cookie she carefully cut from the rolled-out dough. "Look at it. Isn't it real pretty?" '"'What's so great about that?" Joe ambled nonchalantly into the kitchen and peered over Lavina's shoulder. 'You'd think she had created some great invention or something — maybe an_ earthshaking event." Lydia took the cutter from Lavina's hand. "It's a lovely valentine, darling," she said, before turning to Joe. "I can remember when you were Lavina's age, you had fun making cookies. You got just as excited, too." "So there,'' Lavina said hovering over the cookie board. 'Could I — I mean would you write on it, 'I love Daddy,' and one 'I love Mommy"' " "That would be sweet, but I don't know if there is enough room."