VALENTINE'S DAY "Oh, never mind," Joe answered shyly. "Why so much fuss? Valentine's is just another day." Lydia glanced at him. He was at the age to be embarrassed with. Sentiment, but from the pleased look on his face, she knew he was flattered in his young sister's thoughtfulness, too. 'And one for Susan and Mary, too," Lavina said eagerly. "Then that's all our family. Course there's Fluff, our cat, and Mopsy the dog." "Well I don't think we have to include them in your valentines," Lydia laughed. "I'm quite sure they won't mind." She put the last cookie on the sheet and popped the pan into the oven just as she heard her next door neighbor call out from the front door, "Anybody home?" Lypia turned quickly toward the door. "Come in, Freda," she said. "On your way to work, I suppose?" "Yes. Here?" "No," Lydia answered, '"except we're making cookies. Sit down, Freda. I expect you're busy at the shop today — everyone buying new dresses for the ball tonight." "Busy enough," Freda replied. "I can't stay. I just stopped by to see if there was anything new." "Not a thing," Lydia said. "You and John are coming to the Sweetheart Ball tonight aren't you?" "I hope so, though John has been so busy lately. I doubt if he even remembers what day this ls." Anything new around "It's your anniversary for one thing, isn't it?" Lydia walked over to the window before speaking. "Yes, it is. But as I said, John's very busy." "Surely he won't be that busy — this being your anniversary and all," Freda commented. "T'll see you later. I really must run along." Lydia followed her to the door and watched her hurry down the street. Even Freda remembered it was their wedding anniversary. If John would only take a second to say, "Happy Anniversary," that would be enough. Then she would know that he hadn't forgotten. "Mommy, I peeked in the oven and the valentines must be cooked," Lavina called out. "Oh, dear, I almost forgot them," she said, hurrying to the kitchen and opening the oven. "Lucky you remembered them, Lavina." "T'll take them off the sheet, Mother, if you'll finish my valentine dress for the party," Susan said. 'It's almost time for me to go." "A good idea,' Lydia agreed. "Tt's only a small job finishing ite She went into the bedroom, picked up Susan's dress, and sat down at the sewing machine. It wasn't like John not to mention their anniversary. And he always wrote his own charming little valentine message. He was a poet —oh, not like Longfellow, Burns, or certainly not a Browning, but the thought was genuine and especially precious to her. She switched on the machine and quickly stitched in the hem, then 108 pulled out the basting threads, and returned to the kitchen with the dress. "TI'll press it,' she said, "and then you may try it on." "Thank you, Mother." Susan gave her a big hug. "It's absolutely dreamy." Lydia took the ironing board from the closet and laid the dress over it. "The color is just right for you. You'll look mighty sweet in it," she said. "Mighty sweet." "T love it," Susan said, dancing around the room. "I'd better hurry or I'll be late for the party." "IT am hurrying, dear," she said. ''Now remember, you are to be home by dinnertime. We don't want to keep Daddy waiting. I'm sure he has had a big day." She took the dress from the board and watched Susan as she skipped happily down the hall, holding the dress in her hands. Everyone was excited about the day except John. Maybe she was being petty — John was a wonderful husband. Supposing he had forgotten. She was placing too much importance on the matter. Sue was still standing near the ironing board when Susan dashed out of her room, dressed in her new dress, struggling with her coat. '"TI'll be home early, Mother. Goodbye. Oh, Lavina is taking a nap in our room. I covered her up well." "Thanks, dear. Have fun." With Susan gone, she was alone except for Lavina. Joe had gone down the street to help a friend make a snowman, and Mary hadn't returned from her babysitting job. The house seemed large and lonely. She wandered aimlessly from the kitchen to the living room. In case John did want to go to the Sweetheart Ball, she'd better check on her blue dress. She hadn't worn it for sometime, and it might need repairs, or pressing while the iron was hot. Lydia walked briskly to the bedroom, opened the wardrobe door, and took her blue dress from its hanger. She started to move away, and _ then she stopped. There, hanging on the rack just beyond the place where the blue one had been hanging, was the most beautiful pale pink lace sheath she had ever seen. Cautiously she reached for it, almost afraid it was a mirage of some kind. 'Why for goodness sakes," she said aloud, although she was alone in the room. "For me?" With trembling fingers, she reached for a homemade valentine pinned to the dress and read. "To the dearest girl in all the land. My happiest day was the day I won your hand. My valentine for all eternity." Lydia smiled as she took the dress from the hanger, and held it closely to her. Then she let the frock fall limp in her arms as she glanced down at the size twelve in bold figures on the tag. "Oh, no," she cried, "why I haven't worn that size in years. I can't possibly get into this." She stood several minutes staring at the dress. She would have to do something, but what? She had better call John and tell him. He could exchange it perhaps. Or maybe Freda.... She hurried to VALENTINE'S DAY the telephone and dialed Freda's number. "Hello Freda," she said when she heard her friend's voice on the other end of the line. "I i —_—e "Oh, you finally found the dress?" Freda laughed. "I thought you never would." "It's a size twelve. It simply won't fit, and it's so beautiful." She heard Freda laugh softly. "That's what I tried to tell John." "What shall I do?" | "Calm down for one thing," Freda said. "I knew you didn't wear size twelve anymore, so I ordered you a size sixteen the day John bought that one. It came in this morning.": "Oh, thank you, Freda. You're a wonderful friend. I'll be right down and exchange it as soon as Lavina awakens." As an afterthought, she added, "Of course I'll tell John the truth."' Freda laughed. "I doubt if he will believe you, but suit yourself. I tried to tell him, but he said, 'I guess I know what size my wife wears. She wore size twelve when we were married, and she hasn't changed one bit. Except '" "Except what?" Lydia asked breathlessly. "Except he said you were seventeen years lovelier." "Thank you, Freda, for everything," Lydia said excitedly. She hung up the receiver, and stood quietly a moment. A wife just couldn't receive a better compliment than that not in a hundred years. What a wonderful Valentine's Day it was! TisH Haworth woke with a sour taste in her mouth; not, she told herself, from anything she had eaten the night before, but because of something she had discovered about herself. She was an old woman with no mind, will power, or memory. She had suspected it a time or two, but had refused to believe the evidence. There was the time she had lost her legal papers, and had eventually found them right where she had put them so she wouldn't forget them. Around a quilt on Relief Society work day, she had heard younger women tell of doing just such thoughtless 110 acts. That proved it was not age that made her forget, but last night was different. No younger woman would have made such a fool of herself. There was no place in society for one of her age and degree of frayed will power. Tish reached and moved the window drape so she could see out. Cold weather, cold, rainy, and dreary. She dropped the drape and tried to coax sleep by snuggling under the blanket. No use. The events marched relentlessly through her mind. It had begun two weeks ago. Sharon, her granddaughter, had bounded through the kitchen door bursting with news. Madame Knolski was coming to judge their state finals, ''their'"? Meaning the Junior Musicians League. It was an out-of-this-world privilege, and the League was having a reception for her. "She is a real kewpie." Sharon's enthusiasm was boundless. "T met her last summer when our orchestra went to Seattle. Remember?" Tish nodded with something less than enthusiasm. She had heard the name Madame Knolski so many times it had become a pain to her ears. "Are you coming to the reception GM? GM was Sharon's latest for Grandmother. "Of course, darling. Why?" "Oh — I just wondered." Sharon turned to leave, but at the door she turned. "I thought you might be too tired if you attend the tryouts." "What an idea. You know I shan't be that tired. If your mother has to go early I have my car." "Yes — but " then the reason for the question came out, "this is going to be real top layer, not exactly formal, but." "T have a formal. You know how beautiful it is. Your Grandfather bought it for me when "Way back when," Sharon gulped over the disrespectful words, then hurried on. ''GM, I love you so much, and I want to be proud of you when I introduce you to Madame Knolski. Won't you please get a new dress — a new one, not the old kind you always buy, and some new shoes? You always look so — so grandmotherly and — and."