MADAME LETITIA "Comfortable?" After all Sharon was a teenager and suffering from a severe case of hero worship. Tish swallowed a taste of bitterness, then spoke in her usual tone. "Don't worry. I will make sure you are proud of me." Sharon threw her arms around her grandmother. "I am proud of you, GM. I really am. You understand, don't you?" "More than you know. Run along now." Tish literally pushed her out of the door. WHEN the door had closed Tish collapsed in a chair. Understand? What Sharon meant was easy to understand — just make herself into a Madame Knolski who undoubtedly was petite, flashy, and certainly tottered about on spike heels. Tish looked at her own feet encased in comfortable walking shoes. "I must do it. I will show Sharon her Madame Knolski isn't the only one who knows how to dress. Thank goodness, I don't have the shape of a kewpie, and I hope Madame Knolski doesn't either." Tish was not petite, not by forty or fifty pounds, but she was not obese, and she had kept herself straight. Her hair was only slightly gray. She would start shopping tomorrow — no, tomorrow was Relief Society. She would start today. She made an appointment with a beauty operator whose prices were twice what she paid Carma over on Thirty-third Street. She felt guilty and wondered if she should call Carma but decided against it. There was really no need for apologies. Tish set forth to get her dress and shoes with very sure ideas of what she wanted and how long she should spend shopping and what she was going to pay. She avoided the shops where she usually found her dresses. She shopped all that day and the next and the next, with time out only for Relief Society. The clerks in the new shops were very certain what she should have. She tried on dresses and shoes until her arms ached and her feet screamed. Why, of all the beautiful dresses couldn't she find one that pleased both her and the clerks. They were too long, too short, too old-fashioned, too '"'smart." The necklines were too low, the hemlines too high. Several times Tish was tempted to give up the struggle, but the thought of Sharon's pride kept her going. The second week came, and she was no nearer the end of her search than she had been the first day. Her friends complained to each other that she was never home and she never answered her telephone. However, Tish kept up the search. She went from shop to shop. Each evening she came home determined she would not go again, the results could not possibly be worth the effort, and each morning she went again. She was sure she had tried on more dresses than could be collected in any one town. By the end of the second week, she succumbed to pure fatigue. As a last resort, she went back to a clerk named Alma who had seemed more understanding than the others. "Let me think." Alma looked at her with narrowed eyes. "I think I have just the dress for you. It came in just yesterday." Several moments later she came back with a cloud of iridescent rose and blue over her arm. "Oh! Oh! How beautiful!"' Tish was all eagerness to try it on, but on, it looked much less than perfect. It was too short, the neckline was too low, the waist line lacked an inch of meeting. "What you need,' Alma announced calmly, "is a good stiff foundation." Tish had been told that a dozen times, but this time she did not object. While Alma was gone Tish removed the dress. She couldn't possibly wear a dress as beautiful and girlish as that. But with the foundation and the help of an alteration woman, they decided the dress would do. THE night of the reception, Tish laid her new clothes on her bed. She mades sure the doors were 'locked. She did not want anyone to see her until she was arrayed in all her splendor. Her hair looked elegant but quite unfamiliar. It took all her ingenuity and strength to get the foundation zipped. Lastly the dress went over her head. Tish then viewed herself in a full length mirror and gasped with delight. Why, she was almost beautiful. She looked ten years younger. She was suddenly very much in sympathy with Sharon's viewpoint. She preened a little, fingering the beads she had bought to cover her bare throat. She whirled to bring out the iridescent glory of the skirt. She reached for her coat. This was going to be a wonderful evening. She picked up her glittermg new bag — then stopped short. Something was missing. Shoes — pumps. She tried to push her feet into one, then sat down to put them on. They were a dream of brocaded satin, flashy clips, and spike heels. But — but they were not the size she had tried on. No mistake, printed size indicated. "It is all in my mind," she tried to reassure herself. "If other women can balance on_ toothpicks, I can, too."' Before the evening was over Tish hoped her vow would not be taken seriously. Fortunately, her feet became so numb that by leaning on chair backs, holding on to arms, and sitting when she could edge onto a chair ahead of someone else, she managed to present a reasonable facsimile of her usual gay, vocal self. She was tempted to slip out of her slippers but wisely resisted. She thought of all the martyrs who had inflicted punishment on_ themselves. Miapame Knolski was just as Tish had anticipated. She was petite and stood and walked about on spikes without a sign of discomfort. _ Her girlish _ skirt swished pleasingly, but her hair was white; not bleached or rinsed, just white that comes with age. Unwillingly, Tish began to like her. When the time came to leave, Tish could scarcely wait to get out to their car; but barring her way at the door stood Althea, Tish's best friend. "Salaam! Madame Letitia." Althea bowed dramatically. She glanced scornfully from her friend's still perfect hairdo to the MADAME LETITIA glittering pumps, then turned and walked toward her own car. A period on a most frustrating evening. KOe Ok OF The sting of that goodnight had put the sour taste in Tish's mouth. The next morning she felt even more embarrassed. "She was right," Tish acknowledged. "I am an old woman. If I am as old as I feel, I am at least a hundred. But I love to go places and do things. I love life. I don't want to be old-fashioned but...."" Memories of last evening cut short the sentence. With a groan she swung her feet to the floor. Without interest, Tish prepared and ate her breakfast. Usually she went for a walk before eating, but what old woman could go abroad on such a dark, rainy day. Just settle down in your rocking chair and be your age! But she had no rocking chair. THE rain drizzled off, and suddenly Tish knew she must go for a walk. A walk had always been the starting of her day's activities, and she might walk the soreness out of her feet. Once on the graveled road where she walked each morning, her spirits lifted. Fall had always been her favorite time of the year. Yesterday the trees on either side had swayed with the breeze, touching the leaves with a soft rustling sound. Last night's rain had stripped them of their gay leaves. What had been a riot of color was now drab gray and brown. Nearing the place of return, Tish paused a moment to breathe deeply. She did so enjoy walks and morning air. Looking ahead, she spied a single rose. It had poked itself through a hedge and its color was an affront to the gloomy morning. Tish hastened ahead and reached out to pluck the rose, then stopped short. From up the street it had looked perfect, but up close — there was no other word for it — it was old. It was falling apart. Raindrops clung to the dying petals. The inner core was tinged with brown. Nature was having her way. Tish turned from the rose and started slowly back. Time could not be stopped, and it was time she acknowledged it. She hoped that someone's judgment would keep her from making a fool of herself. She would wear what she had and try to be content. As she reached the pavement that led to her home, Tish stopped and looked about as she usually did. Dark rain curtains hung from. Every direction and drops began to fall, faster and faster. Still she watched. Then, unbelievably, from the darkest cloud a rainbow appeared. Its beginning and end were hidden, yet there it was, small, but real, and defying the clouds just to wink companionably to her. It was gone in a second, but she had seen it. Tish finished her walk exuberant with delight. The rose was dying, but the rainbow promised new life. There was a lot of life yet to be lived, and she was going to enjoy every moment. She still had some willpower and she would use it to buy dresses or not to buy dresses. Sharon was sitting in the kitchen. 114 '""Grandmother, where have you been in all this rain?" "Where I usually am this time of the morning." Tish was shedding her raincoat when Sharon threw her arms around her and burst into tears. "Oh, Grandmother," (it was no longer GM), "I am so proud of you and so ashamed of myself and that — that Althea." 'Now what in the world?" Tish ran her hand through her hair. 'When I saw you dressed as you were, you just didn't look like my darling Grandmother. I love you much more as you are now." "With stringy hair and wet shoes? Never mind, darling. I think we have both learned a lesson. Some grandmothers can flit about, but I am not a butterfly." Sharon's kiss was worth all the expense and pain. Then Sharon shifted to a teenager. "Grandmother, what are you going to do with your dress and slippers?" Tish smothered a_ chuckle. '"'Well — I think the dress can be altered so I can wear it. The shoes — I might, yes, you may have them, but you know your Father won't let you wear them." "But I will have them. Thank you. Thank you." Sharon snatched the slippers from a kitchen chair where she had conveniently placed them, and raced down the walk. Tish watched until she was out of sight, then she closed the door. "Get busy, Madame Letitia. You are still young enough to do a variety of things and take delight in doing them, but time is of the essence."