Birthday Pie Ivy Houtz Woolley Did you ever make a Birthday Pie? |! Have, for | originated this idea. The needed things to work with are as follows: 1 plum pie — large (or any other kind of two-crust pie) 1 colored candle, 8-10 inches tall (8 inches preferred) Small birthday cake candles to designate members of the family or friends. First place the pie on a musical cake plate, or a tall glass cake stand. Put a tall taper in the center of the pie, then surround the tall candle with tiny candles in little holders available at dime stores. If a number of people are at the party, have other pies in the kitchen, enough to serve everyone. Use the pie as a centerpiece for the table. Place a mirror under the pie container, and add doilies, flowers, figurines, oF anything suitable to beautify your Birthday Pie table. Submitted by Ada W. Schaelling Broccoli Casserole 2 pkgs. Chopped frozen broccoli (or chopped fresh _ broccoli) 1 large onion or two smaller ones 1 c. Water salt to taste 1 large can evaporated milk (13 oz.) 4 tbsp. Flour mixed to a paste with milk 1 c. Chopped or cubed cheese (sharp or semi-sharp) buttered crumbs to cover Chop onion coarsely and boil in water until tender. Add broccoli and cook until crisp-tender. Add milk and salt and heat. Add thickening and simmer gently for about 2 minutes. Fold in cheese and pour into casserole. When ready to serve cover the casserole with bread crumbs that have been sauteed in butter or margarine. Heat in oven until bubbly and browned. Serves 12 to 18. Mystery Pie 6 egg whites. For better volume, separate when cold, beat when at room temperature 2 tsp. Baking powder 2 tsp. Vanilla 2 c. Sugar 1 c. Soda cracker crumbs 1 c. Chopped nuts Beat egg whites, vanilla, and baking powder, and add sugar slowly. When mixture stands in soft peaks, fold in crumbs and nuts. Spread in greased pan (9" x 13") and bake 25 to 30 minutes at 350°. Serve with whipped cream. Use 1 c. Cream, 2 tbsp. Sugar, and 1/2 tsp. Vanilla. Cream should be put on the pie a few hours before serving to soften the pie. Can be frozen, if desired, after adding the whipped cream. Makes 24 servings, approximately. Mildred McKenzie Irish Mission Relief Society A banquet for three hundred to be held, and the table decorating assigned to me! The summer flowers were in full bloom, but in what could I put them! I looked with longing at the lovely crocheted basket mother had given me. Oh, for enough of those! That was impossible, of course, so I made enough of them with paper doilies and evaporated milk cans. An empty milk can, some wire, paper doilies, and ribbon can be put together attractively for a party flower basket. Materials required for one basket: one 12-inch square doily one 12-inch round doily One 4 or 5-inch round doily cellophane tape One 3-foot length of wire one empty tall-size evaporated milk can The bottom and sides of the flower basket are made as a unit around the can, then removed from the can while the handles are fastened on. The can may be partly filled with water before slipping it into the basket again. Directions for Making lace baskets J Enlarge the ho les at top edge of the Punch a hole in €ach side directly below the top holes through Which to fasten the Wire for he handle unch additiona] holes In the top of the ca large Ough so that th flowers can be inserted. The to il serve 4S a flower holde "frog." Cut 4-inch Strip from the arge square ily (or mall ones taped together). Roll; aro the can d fasten with Scotch Draw Pencil line 4round the Can in the enter of a la Cut out the ¢ Nter o th Pencil line sh c € doily, but cut it One-half Ows. Make three 6 S€ round doil Inch er than the four gs] Shes th SCissorg he p Neil line. Turn the Pside q na able; Slip th arge ver and down to the tab] pe slashed tions to the Oily ¢ ver on the can, 5. Set the can j th Center of a 4 or 5-in oily and fasten this also to th doily Cover o the ca With four Pieces of tape. 6. Hold One h 4round the Can, push slightly up fro he ttom and remove the can fro € "basket" have ade for it. Reinforce the inner €dge of the "basket" h Strips of Pe Over th dge of the Openin 7. Cut One-inch TIPS from th emnant of the first 8e dojl Thread these Strips on Wire and connect Ith th tap after th are o Leave 6 Inches on each end ba 8. Faste the wire ° each side thirds full o ater and ta € top doil 1 Or some. Lovely. Doilies that 4Te not too lacy are €aSier to handle Winter Sun Doreen Dickson Winter SUN Slips through Slatted blinds ¢ hang bars of 80ld upon MY walls Pring' busy hur iS gone from this sy 7 SuMmer's ltry he t, and the dying embers of fall. € refined Bold js eft here th Cool, pure light of nter eigns — reign Uring the long wi ter Month Over gj valleys a d sno lanes, 8 Ireva Watkins — Hobbies Heip to Make Her Happy lreva E. Watkins, Logan, Utah, has had to change her way of life. Five years ago she was an active worker in Relief Society. She had served as a counselor in the ward presidency, as a visiting teacher message leader, and for many years as a visiting teacher. Then her left side was made inactive, following a stroke, and she became homebound. She was not discouraged, however, and her many talents and interests, some of which had been long postponed, came into a time of full flowering. She takes care of dozens of thriving African violets, makes beautiful trousseau articles for her granddaughters and gifts for her friends. Aprons, pillows, pillowslips, tablecloths, and needlecraft pictures are among the crafts that brighten her house and make her friends and relatives grateful for the well-developed talents of Sister Watkins. Her ward Relief Society officers and members often visit Sister Watkins and they enjoy the dear companionship of sisterhood. Sister Watkins has three sons and eight grandchildren.