VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Message 64 — "I, the Lord, Am Bound When Ye Do What | Say; But When Ye Do Not What | Say, Ye Have No Promise' (D&C 82:10). For First Meeting, Objective: To show that only through obedience to the Lord's laws will promised blessings come. Tuis statement in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 82, verse 10, is an expression of one of the most fundamental of all divine truths. The promises given to us by our Father in heaven are immutable. They are based upon divine law and, if we are obedient to the conditions he requires of us, these promises will be fulfilled completely and absolutely. The key to receiving the blessings of the Lord's promise to us is obedience. We are told that, "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated—And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated" (D&C 130:20-21). Obedience is heaven's first law. It is the foundation of all success and all accomplishment. It is the doorway that leads to salvation. Our third Article of Faith tells us that through the atonement of Christ all mankind may be saved, but exaltation is conditioned on obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel. One of the interesting aspects of obedience is that most of us unhesitatingly recognize and seek to obey natural laws. For example, we use the power of electricity to heat and light our homes, run our appliances, and to provide us with many varied conveniences. We do this by complying with the laws through which electricity operates; yet, in respect to the laws which govern spiritual blessings, often, because we do not fully understand them, or because the results of obedience to them may not be so direct or immediate, we sometimes question or hesitate. Nevertheless, these spiritual laws are just as real and certain as are the laws of nature. Every blessing, temporal or spiritual, is firmly based on law and obedience to it. Obedience, like faith, is a source of power. Through obedience we demonstrate our maturity and give concrete evidence of our humility and teachableness. An impressive example of the power of obedience in relationship to humility and _ self-discipline, is found in the Old Testament, in the story of Naaman, a captain in the Syrian army. Naaman was a great and honorable man who was afflicted with leprosy. He learned of the Prophet Elisha who, through God's power, could heal this dread disease. Accordingly, the captain went to Elisha and sought his blessings. The prophet told Naaman to go and wash in the Jordan River seven times and his flesh would be made whole. The mighty Syrian was disappointed in these simple instructions. He had expected that Elisha would require him to do something more dramatic. Whereupon, his servants spoke to Naaman saying, "My father, if the prophet had bid LESSON DEPARTMENT thee do some great — thing, wouldest thou not have done it? How much rather then, when he saith to thee, Wash, and be clean?" Naaman then obeyed Elisha and dipped himself seven times in the river Jordan and he was healed. (II Kings 5:1-14.) This story illustrates the power of obedience. Through obedience, not only do we open the doorway to the Lord's blessings but also we demonstrate our love for him. The Savior said, "He that hath my commandments, and_ keepeth them, he it is that loveth me and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him" (John 14:- 21). Jesus also promised us, "If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love " (John 15:10). Out of his gracious love for us our Father in heaven has given us laws and commandments which, if obeyed, assure us of his love, guidance, and blessings. Truly the Lord is bound if we do what he says, but if we do not what he says, we have no promise.