Volume 52 Number 4 April 1965 | Special Short Story Issue Citen, Fewer "la Col sewane The Cover: |/ - Photograph by Adelie Hurley, Free Lance Photographers Guild ' Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret New Press Frontispiece: Art Layout: © Hlustrations: Linnie F. Robinson When purple dusks are soft in spring And flowers star Gethsemane, | muse: that here you came to pray For strength to bear your enemy. To bless all men—you came for that— You had the power within your hand To destroy all—yet died for all, And purchased life from law's demand. There were the truckling, vassal kings, Who, counting pomp and gold as gain, Walked their loud hour upon the earth While you received the cross of pain. And you were hurt beyond all words— The Son of God, by those like me; Our unbelief drove in the nails, For we were blind and could not see. When purple dusks are soft in spring And flowers star Gethsemane, | muse that here you came to pray 'For strength to bear your agony. Jamieson River, Victoria, Australia Easter Lilies, Photograph by Josef Muench Dick Scopes | Mary Scopes Som ON car and Ser | do not know how many brethren in the Church read The Relief Society Magazine. I even take Sister Vernon's copy to work with me and 'read it during lunch breaks. No words of mine can express how I feel about the Magazine. It keeps us humble and brings home to us just how blessed we are. Having held the office of branch president four times, | know only too well what it means to have a good Relief Society in a branch. 1! Am grateful for all the help and assistance the sisters have given me as branch president. It gave me great joy to read in the January 1965 issue of Sister Francelle Larsen conducting the Singing Mothers in San Joaquin Stake, California. Brother and Sister Larsen did a wonderful work over here in the Liverpool District, and later in the Manchester Stake. We love these good Latter-day Saints. They are a shining example of "By their fruits ye shall know them." J. Vernon, First Counselor Preston District North British Mission I wish to congratulate Venda Brown Castleberry on her tender story ''Heart Room" (first prize story, January 1965). It is warm and appealing. | hope to see more of her writing in the future. Alice Gubler Sabin Deer Park, Washington | want to express my sincere appreciation for the prize-winning poems and the story which appeared in the January issue. All of the poems are lovely. Author of the first-prize poem, Sister Hansen, is the mother of one of our ward members, Q. Marion Hansen. The story by Sister Castleberry is excellent and carries a fine lesson for us all. | must express thanks for the interesting serial ''Turn of the Wheel,"' by Mabel Harmer. As a children's librarian and teacher, | often find her books on our shelves and on lists of recommended books. It is a thrill to think that | know Sister Harmer. Norma A. Wrathall Sunnyvale, California 242 | had yesterday a great fun. It was the birthday of my grandmother. A week ago in Hamburg was born a new great-grandson, so | have translated and told her the poem ''First Grand Addition,'' by Leora Larsen, November 1964 Magazine. Grandmother and the guests had a big laughter. When | heard the news of the birth of the little grandson, | had sent a letter with the poem in it to the baby's father, and he answered so lovely and so funny, that we had to laugh, too., Benita Hollman - Lubeck, Germany | am a convert to the Church and have been a member for two years now. | enjoy my work in Relief Society and look forward to the Magazine each month. Mrs. Walter Chalcroft Minot, North Dakota | just received the first issue of our Magazine for this year, and what a beautiful Magazine it is! | love the warmth and friendship it brings to me, and the chance to visit with my sisters around the world. The fresh ideas it has on homemaking and caring for my family are much appreciated, but | value most the spiritual growth the Magazine gives me. | enjoy the directions for handwork and making gifts, such as ''A Welcome Gift,'' by Vilate McAllister in the November issue, and "Colorful Felt Pictures,'' by June Krambule. Barbara Lynch Fayetteville, N. C. During the week | have read the new literature textbook. It is wonderful. | was almost unable to put it down, and when | really had to leave it for something more important at that particular time, | found myself thinking of it continually and yearning to return to reading it. | am really looking forward to all the literature lessons. Valeria Howard President, Leeton Branch Australian Mission 

Relief SGociety Volume 52 April 1965 Number 4 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 

Contents
Special Features 244 God's Law and Human Behavior Ariel S. Ballif 273 How Acceptance of the Gospel Brings Joy Into Our Lives Anne S. W. Gould 273 "Seek and Ye Shall Find" Clara Horne Park 274 Be Alert to Cancer Control Garrison H. Davidson 282 We Are God's Children Rixta Werbe 984 The Nature of Thought Amelia Davis Everett 286 I Visited a Relief Society Nursery Evelyn J. Barlow 989 One Hundred Years of Visiting Teaching Fiction 250 A Swedish Conversion Melba Taylor Gleave 256 "Love Thy Neighbour" Helen Hooper 263 The Image Sara O. Moss 275 A State of Mind Lael J. Littke 300 The Turn of the Wheel — Chapter 7 M abel Harmer General Features 242 From Near and Far 269 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 270 Editorial: "Sufficient Unto the Day" Marianne C. Sharp 272 Notes to the Field: Use of Selections From the Literature Text Stake Social Science Leadership Department in Summer Not to Be Held Color Transparencies for Use in The Relief Society Magazine 306 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 320 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 288 Spring Kathryn E. Franks 290 Baby Bonnet Made From a Handkerchief Opal F. Christensen 292 "Quickie" Menu for the Homebound Oa J. Cannon 293 Homemaking Suggestions: Simple and Subtle Jo Stock 293 Cherry-Rhubarb Pie Judith Leigh-Kendall 294 Page From the Diary of a Housewife Roselyn Kirk 296 Office Filing at Home Janet W. Breeze 299 A Sisterhood of Hobbies—Carrie K. Walker and Sophronia M. Petersen Lesson for June 313 Work Meeting — "..- - The Worth of Souls Is Great.. " Alberta H. Christensen Poetry 241 When Flowers Star Gethsemane — Frontispiece Linnie F. Robinson In Praise of Spring, by Vera R. Holden, 255; Wind, by Ida A. Isaacson, 262; So You Must Try Your Wings, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 268; Proposal, by Muriel J. Heal, 284; The Children, by Lael W. Hill, 285; Solace For Tears, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 286; Never Land and Home, by Blanche Kendall McKey, 288; You Can Tell Them, by Christie Lund Coles, 289; April Accident, by Viola Ashton Candland, 293; Rocket Base, by Bernice Ames, 298; Dialogue, by Margery S. Stewart, 317; First Grandchild, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 317; April Is, by Eva Willes Wansgaard, 318; Remembering, by Celestia J. Taylor, 318.

 Gods law and Human Behavior Dr. Ariel S. Ballif Professor of Sociology Brigham Young University [Address Delivered at the Social Science Departmental Meeting, Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1, 1964] "It is a most humbling experience to meet with the dynamic leadership of the Relief Society of the Church. I have always 244 been impressed with the faithfulness and the dedication of Relief Society workers. I have observed it at close range. My lovely wife has been and is a tireless worker in Relief Society. I have considered myself a member of your organization ever since I was a bishop, more so as a stake president, and an ardent member as a mission president. During these last three years, it has been my privilege to try to help the sisters of the Church understand more clearly the relationship of the Priesthood to the functioning of Church government. This year our effort has been to emphasize the effectiveness and value of applying God's law to the government of human behavior, particularly when it is carried out under the concept of love for the welfare of mankind. Each year the social science lessons of the Relief Society have examined an area of human interaction, observed the forces producing human _ behavior, and considered ways and means of improving the stimulation for and raising the standard of behavior of the members of the Society. God's organization on earth is designed to give direction to the lives of human beings so that through faith and the exercise of intelligent choice one can obtain the fullness of his possibilities and, eventually, reach perfection. Divine law is not restrictive nor designed as a deterrent. On the contrary, it is creative and dynamic with the welfare of mankind as its objective. 'For behold, this is my work and my glory— to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." of Church 0vernment Is "to It must Produce evidence of the bring to bass the immortality and continua] improvement of human eternal life of man" (Moses 1: Conduct. The fina] Product jg the ).: tention js Called to the fected human family. Our at fact that the law of God and his The function of Church LovOrganization is devoted entirely ernment must embody al] of the long-suffering Sentleness, meek. Taken away decision. It would 121 41.) Creativity. His plan Tecognized Tom this Point of View, € potentia] of God IN man Church Sovernment Should PYoan Provided a Organization Vide the direction for the activity through whi ay enjoy of life from birth to death, the Perfection of the Father. "Be including the daily routine of ye therefore Perfect, even as your Makin living op Solving the Fr, €r which js €aven js Problems r society, Should be berfect" ( Matt. 5 4 Included Christ's Sovernment On earth We should Put forth every effort to ending thirst for and the quest the Supplant aristocracy of wealth 7 With the aristocracy of Character and of knowledge to awaken in the Minds of the youth There are those in the World who 4 realization that to be honest, 'to be say that Jealousy, enmity, Selfishness €Pendable, to be loyal Citizen of in men's hearts Will always Preclude © country, to be rue e€ stand. He estab] Shing of the id a Society ards of th Gospel are the noblest nown the kj dom of re APRIL 1965 Peace and good will are attitudes of mind. An attitude is a tendency to act in a dependable way in a given situation. Attitudes are learned through a series of experiences which bring about pleasing, satisfying, and desired results. Attitudes grow out of study, human contacts, and associations. They are more than feelings or opinions. They are more accurately revealed in what we do than in what we say. THE true religious attitude of an individual is revealed in his activity related to the teachings of the Church. For example, when one testifies to being a member of the Church and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God and that God spoke through Joseph to us, and then the testifier disregards revealed laws given by the Prophet, the strength of the person's testimony is found in his actions, not in his stated word. Jesus found a similar condition among the Jews when he said, "Ye hypocrites, well did Ksaias prophecy to you, saying, This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth, and honoureth me with their lips; but their heart is far from me" (Matt. 15: 7-8). This applies not only to a specific revelation but to telling the truth in all situations, being honest in all one's dealings with God and man, and in every other principle of the good life that has been revealed. Church government is designed by divine law to give direction to the lives of human beings so that they may find expression for the fullness of their possibilities. As has been pointed out, under divine law, the Church, 246 through the home, has been given the major responsibility of setting the proper example. The parents must translate into action the teachings of the Savior. Under this influence the child begins the development of attitudes that last throughout his life, such as faith in God, acceptance of divine law, and the application of the same in the love of fellow men. A second major responsibility of Church government is so to direct the membership that, as a community, the proper environment is developed. An important concern is the temporal welfare of each member. Reducing suffering from hunger or unemployment is only a part of the responsibility. Health, recreation, and education are of equal importance in the temporal welfare of the members of the Church. A third major responsibility is to challenge the intellect of every member of the Church. Spiritual development and __ intellectual growth must go hand in hand. We must think about religion in order to formulate an intellectual understanding of it. And _ intellectual understanding is just as needful in religion as anywhere else. We must not permit the surface of the waters of religious life to become fixed and crystalized by the freezing of religious thought (BROWN, PRESIDENT Hucu B., Church News, May 30, 1964). The development of proper attitudes for all Church members requires the proper functioning of all three of the above-mentioned responsibilities. In the opening passage of the first of Confucius' four books is the following statement: When true knowledge is achieved, then one has sincerity of purpose. When there is sincerity of purpose, then comes rightness of heart. With the rightness of heart, then the personal life can be cultivated. With the cultivation of personal life, the family 'life may be regulated. When _ the family life is regulated, then the national life is orderly. And when the national life is orderly, then there is peace in the world. From the emperor down to the common man, all must regard the cultivation of the personal life as the root or foundation. There is never an orderly superstructure when thé foundation is wobbly. There is never a tree whose trunk is slim and weak and whose top branches are well grown. THE home is the training ground for the members of the kingdom. | If the family performs its function, the basic attitudes toward peace and good will are established. The same motivation as exists in the family must be present in the community of the membership of the Church. With each family functioning according to the divine instruction (D&C 68:25-26), the ward environment would be ideal for the production of love and understanding. The teachings of the Savior are not just for the refreshing of our minds about beautiful ideals. Every principle of the gospel must become a functioning part of the life of each member. The struggle must be one's own. Nobody may do the learning act for another. One cannot obtain wisdom, or learning, or beauty of character as a gift or an inheritance.... Here, as elsewhere, he must perfect himself through his own striving; and he cannot rise above the level of his own accomplishment wrought through his own labor (BOWEN, ALBERT E.: Conference Report, April 5, 1948, page 91). GOD'S LAW AND HUMAN BEHAVIOR The maturing of the individual is an outcome of experience and association. The tendency to act in a given way is dependent upon how well or how effectively and frequently, the principles of the good life have been presented to the individual. No virtue is practiced without training and understanding. Few persons are honest without the standard of honesty being systematically presented in a positive and unwavering manner. The same is true of chastity, kindness, justice, and _ loyalty. These are some of the traits which characterized the life of the Savior and that each person must acquire to develop peace and good will in his heart. This is slow, but can be a _ steady process. For thousands of years men have tried to maintain peace through the development of machines of destruction. There has been a constant flow of inventive genius to produce the most destructive instruments of war, from simple hand weapons, to missiles. With the discovery of explosive power there has developed undreamed of force from explosives, until one blast can destroy a city and hundreds of thousands of human beings. With the growth of such power, fear has filled the hearts of men. Nations are employing their top physical scientists and _ their wealth to produce more effective and accurate means of destruction. Each great political power watches with envy the triumph in this field of the other nations. A major result of the power race is increase of suspicion, hatred, and enmity among nations and in the hearts of all the people. 247 APRIL 1965 THERE is a gleam of hope in the power struggle of nations found in the technical developments that bring people closer together. Now man can circle the globe in hours. There are no protective walls in the form of mountains or oceans. We are close neighbors to any and all of the peoples of the earth. We must learn more about them. Understanding our neighbors opens the way for friendly relations. The more friendly the people, the greater the possibility for peace. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints has approximately twelve thousand missionaries, mostly young men and women, teaching the principles of righteousness and peaceable understanding to the people of the world. Theirs is an unselfish effort to show people the only way to live happily together. They are demonstrating by their teachings and practice the value of love in the lives of human beings, showing that "the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance: against such there is no law" (Gal. 5: 22-23). They (the missionaries) need the support of the home community to _ illustrate the truths of their teachings. They need every Latter-day Saint family to demonstrate the effectiveness of love of God and love of fellow men. The government of God, which is the operation of divine law, is the only way to establish peace and good will in the hearts of men. There is no other way. Peace is the product of a clear 248 conscience, of reason and _ intelligence, and of faith in God and an understanding of man's relationship to him. It is a result of the concerted effort of and intent of the best performance of the minds of men. Peace will come when the leadership of this world and the people in it are willing to recognize God's plan, and work harder, sacrifice more, and use all their resources for the development of his plan. Peace can come about when all people are concerned as much about the welfare of others as they are about themselves. It can happen when all men let the motive of service to others be the impelling drive in the performance of their professions. Prac is not the easy way of life. It is the way of life that is directed by the pattern that Jesus gave us. "Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends" (John 15:13). Christ's joy and glory came in using his talents, experience, and power for the welfare and improvement of mankind. When he performed a miracle, he advised the beneficiary to go his way and tell no one what had happened. In meeting the opposition, he did not use force. He could have called legions of angels to protect him but he did not. He met force with love and kindness. He rebuked Peter when Peter smote off the ear of the soldier who was about to take the Christ a_ prisoner. Then the Savior restored the ear to the wounded man. He always did good to those who despitefully used or abused him. Jesus went out to find those who were weary and sick at heart, and gave them courage, healing their broken parts, and counseling them to love God and love their fellow men.: The divine law provides the necessary direction for obtaining perfection. Perfection is the goal of man as designed by the Creator. In Adam's time, and also in the time of Enoch, and while Jesus was upon the earth, and at the time recorded in Fourth Nephi, those near the source of divine instruction obtained a degree of perfection. They were taught correct principles and, with freedom of choice made with full knowledge, they were able to make right decisions. True virtue (knowing right from wrong and choosing the right) existed. The off-balance in conduct came when deception, greed, covetousness, selfishness, or other human weaknesses ___ distorted their knowledge, their reason, and their faith, and then the people made their decisions influenced by their degree of unrighteousness. In these conditions the love of God and love of fellow men, so basic to peace and good will, are lost. Let us return now to the basic point of our lessons for the past three years—''Divine Law and Church Government." The effort has been to bring to you a discussion of divine law and its function in Church government through the Priesthood, which is the power of God delegated to man. The purpose of the government of the Church is to fulfill the objective of the Creator, "For beGOD'S LAW AND HUMAN BEHAVIOR hold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man'"' (Moses 1:39). The mission of Jesus Christ to this earth established the pattern by which the objective of God can be realized. His pattern of life, his motivation in all his activity on this earth was demonstrated in the first and great commandment:... Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. On these two commandments hang. All the law and the prophets (Matt. 22: 37-40). As the Savior was about to leave this world he said to his disciples, ''Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you (John 14:27). His peace came from knowing he had filled to the fullness the will of the Father in his (Christ's) service to mankind. The love he had for his Father was demonstrated in the good he did for his fellow men. How often he said, "If ye love me, keep my commandments." If we would know his peace, we must follow in his footsteps. May God bless the efforts of the mothers in Zion. And may the Lord's influence be felt by this great leadership group in the task of bringing to the women of the Church a full realization of the importance of their strategic place in stimulating their husbands and sons to full performance of their duties in the Priesthood. 249 swedish Conversion Melba Taylor Gleave m Anna Mary Gabrielson carried two buckets into the whitewashed stable. One bucket held soap and water to wash off the udders of the cows, the other would soon hold the frothy milk her strong hands would squeeze out of them. Setting the buckets down, she opened the stable door on the far end of the building and called softly to the' cows. They lumbered through the door to the stanchions where Anna Mary had spread grain for them to eat. As they put their heads through the poles in the stanchions, she quickly slid wooden bars into place along their necks so that they would stand still and lick up the grain while: she took their milk. She rushed their brown flanks and washed the udders, moving swiftly. Over the big swollen milk veins. "Stand still now, flickas, and give down your milk, tonight I must hurry. All the neighbors are coming to dance and have smorgasbord, and Valdimar Sjostrom will be here with his mother and father... Do you want them to find me under a cow?" She talked to the animals as she worked, pausing at intervals to laugh from sheer joy in an- 250 \" \maS ticipation of the party. When she finished milking, she unlocked the cows' heads, scattered clean straw for them to bed down on, picked up the buckets and walked out the door, being careful to bolt it securely. She carried the milk into the cool stone cellar and strained it into shallow pans so that the cream would come to the top. After setting these pans on shelves, she removed the pans of milk that had been strained the night before and skimmed the _ thick leathery cream from them into a wooden churn. When the chores were finished, APRIL 1965 cake and spicy cookies. Creamed codfish simmered on the back of the big black stove, and the smell of apple dumplings escaped the oven to tantalize her father who walked around the kitchen lifting lids and snatching some of everything her mother put on the table as soon as her back was turned. Anna Mary hurried to the cellar to get some of the small cheeses they made especially for smorgasbord, and as she came back the first neighbors had arrived, and were tying their horse to the hitching post at the side of the house. She waved to them, "Hello, and welcome, WHendrika and Arne!" She noticed the little ones asleep in the back of the cart. "T'll take this cheese in and help you carry the children."' "You are a Swedish white angel, and you'll make Valdimar a good wife someday,' Arne teased. Anna Mary blushed and ran to the kitchen with the cheese. Nearly all of the guests had arrived before Valdimar stepped through the front door with his parents. Anna Mary saw him at once, and her joy was pain as she watched his eyes search the room until they found hers. She busied herself taking people's shawls and hats and piling them all on top of her mother's big, white bed. The-last ones to arrive were Sedra and Zorn Hamberg who brought a strange man with them. She crossed the room to welcome them. "We are glad you are here. Mama won't leave the kitchen, and Petranella and I are to take your wraps and bid you welcome." 252 Zorn said, "Anna Mary, this is Mr. Walter Turner. He lives in the United States. He is a Mormon missionary. His companion, Mr. Larson, was called away." AnnaMary nodded, and Mr. Turner shook her hand. He said something she didn't understand, but she smiled at him, and indicated that he was to come in and sit down. He was dressed in a dark suit and looked clean and neat—a man of about thirty. When Swedish people get together, constraint vanishes as soon as they begin to eat, and when the guests began to fill their plates from Mrs. Gabrielson's smorgasbord, the talk and laughter were as hearty as their appetites. Only then Mr. Turner seemed quiet—but not unpleasant, as he ate the food with obvious relish. After the tables had been cleared, and all of the little children tucked into the beds of Anna Mary and Petranella, the braided rugs were taken up from the white wooden floors, and Nils and Katrina Jonassen played polkas on their accordions while everyone danced—everyone except the Mormon missionary and Anna Mary's father who tried to talk to each other. When Anna Mary danced with Valdimar, her heart lifted her feet like blown feathers. His hands were steel gentleness about her waist. When everyone was breathless from polkas, Marieer Hansson sang the sad sweet folk songs that made the men and women reach for each other's hands. Before it was time to go home, Mrs. Gabrielson set out all the food again because now everyone had 'danced themselves empty' and they must go home satisfied. The small children were taken from the beds in their sleep and loaded into the straw-filled carts. Then much hugging was done before they finally left. Anna Mary stepped through the door with Valdimar, and as soon as they moved away from the light of the doorway, he bent down and put his lips in her hair, "Anna Mary " She stood alone and listened until the sound of his horse died in the soft dirt of the road, then turned and walked back into the house. Her mother was cleaning up the dishes from the second feasting, and her father was talking about the Mormon, "I told him we would listen to him. It won't hurt to hear what he has_ to say." Anna Mary lay in her bed with her hand on the place where Valdimar's lips had been. She could hear her mother putting back rugs and straightening the house so that in the morning her usual work would not be interrupted. The moon moved across the sky, its light falling through the window upon the closed eyelids of a Swedish girl who was dreaming of her love. THE summer moved quickly into fall. The birch trees were tinged with yellow, and the fields of flax were blue with blossoms. The Mormon missionaries were frequent visitors in their home, and were liked by all of them. Mr. Turmer told them of the Prophet Joseph Smith, who had received a vision from God and his angels, and about the restoration of the true gospel upon golden plates. A SWEDISH CONVERSION He told of the power this young man was given to interpret the history of the early people from these plates. He explained the gospel plan to them, and told of the kingdoms of eternity. Anna Mary's father was sure this young man spoke with the tongue of truth, and embraced the gospel with all his heart. He testified that when Mr. Turner preached the gospel, his body would fill with a burning sensation that he was aware of even in the ends of his hair. He felt cleansed and uplifted after each visit, and when the time came for Mr. Turner to ask whether they were going to be baptized, Mr. Gabrielson answered unhesitatingly, "Yes. I want to belong to your Church, I want my wife to belong—and my daughters." They were baptized by Mr. Turner and his companion, Mr. Larson, in the small lake they could see from the south of their house. After the baptism, they seemed to have no friends except Sedra and Zorn Hamberg who had become members of the Mormon Church also. When it came time to harvest the acres of flax, they were the only neighbors who had come to help them, and Anna Mary and _ Petranella worked from daylight until dark pulling and shocking the flax. Anna Mary ached from work and sadness. Since she became a Mormon, Valdimar had only come to see her once, and he had seemed sad and quiet. His usual forthright eyes had avoided hers. WInTER piled the snow around their home, the canals froze into glass arteries. They kept the animals inside the farm buildings, 253 APRIL 1965 melting snow to water them. Anna Mary moved about her tasks as one who had forgotten how to be glad. The new religion had taken Valdimar from her, and one day followed the next like prolonged pain. When she went to bed at night, she could hear her mother and father talking for hours. One day they told their daughters they had decided to go to America. Anna Mary's father looked at her and said, "You will go first with Brother Turner and some other missionaries."' (Since they had been baptized they called him Brother.) "He is going back to America next month. I will arrange passage for you on the same ship." "But Papa, I am afraid to go alone. Why can't Petranella come with me? It is so far away, I don't know how to talk their language... My clothes." Her heart was beating fast, moving out of the painful lethargy of Valdimar and into a new feeling of fear. Her father came to her and put his hands on her shoulder. "Anna Mary, my little one, I don't want to send you away from us, but your mother and I have decided it is the only way. We have only enough money for one boat ticket. When we sell the animals, we will send your sister, and when your mother and I can sell the land, we will come. Please try to be brave." "But I don't want to go away from our home! I don't like to be a Mormon! We don't have any friends here since we joined them!"" She threw herself into her father's arms and sobbed. He stroked her hair tenderly. 254 "T am sure it is the Lord's will, Anna Mary." THE month was filled with preparation for Anna Mary's trip to America. New clothes were made, homespun and woolens, stockings were knit, and money was sewn into a belt so that she wouldn't be left penniless if her purse got stolen. One night as they were putting her clothes into her traveling bags, a firm knock came at the door. Mrs. Gabrielson opened it, and in stepped Valdimar, ice skates hanging over his shoulder. "T have come to say goodbye to Anna Mary." He looked at her, then at the clothes they were folding into the bag. "Will you come skating with me?" Anna Mary nodded and went into her bedroom to change into. Warmer clothes. She took her skates out of the closet and went back to Valdimar who had been talking earnestly to her father. They walked to the canal where they put on their skates. Valdimar helped her onto the ice, then joining hands, they skated away. For miles they skated along the smooth ice, matching their bodies to the rhythm of the strokes. Valdimar slipped Anna Mary's mitten off and put her hand inside his glove—fresh pain went through her. They stopped underneath some tall black pines. Valdimar unbuttoned his coat and drew Anna Mary's cold face inside its warmth, where she cried until there were no more tears to come. "T love you, Anna Mary. I had planned to ask you to marry me, I only waited because you are so young, but now." "Now I am a Mormon, and you hate them, and I will go to America and you will stay here with your father and run the mill and marry someone else. I don't want to go, Valdimar, but we think it is right. We could never be happy here now." He shook his head sadly, "'No."' He reached into his pocket and brought out a small box. "I want you to have this to help you remember."' Opening the box, he drew out a small gold chain with a blue sapphire pendant. He fastened it around her neck. Lifting her chin he kissed her A SWEDISH CONVERSION lips. "I will always love you." They skated slowly home, the cold winter wind biting into Anna Mary's swollen, red eyes. * * * LitrteE Karl grabbed Anna Mary's hands as she tucked him in bed, "Your hands are really old, aren't they, Grandma?' Anna Mary looked down at her knobby fingers with the blue veins and brown splotches. One hand reached up and touched the blue stone on the necklace she always wore. "Yes, they are really old." In Praise of Spring Vera R. Holden Stockport, Cheshire, England At morn the pale gold sun comes through To weave strange garlands on my window blind, Reminding me that spring is due To wake the world to life anew, To. Heal the sad at heart, refresh the mind. The crocus, without voice or sound, Reaching up to make her bright display, Sends cautious fingers through the ground, Then edges out to look around, In white and gold and purple colors gay. Narcissus gently takes her place, Tall, slender maiden like the snow is she, Lifting to the sun her sweet white face, Symbol of loveliness and grace, Of childlike innocence and purity. And seeing all so wondrous fair— The springtime and the greening sod, The blossoms and the beauty everywhere— We echo in our hearts a prayer, For all this radiant spring, we thank thee, God. 255 rotueha Helen Hooper @ My whole problem was that I didn't believe. It would have been heresy to have said it out loud. I felt this instinctively, and with it the shame and the awful burden of secrecy it demanded. I could see vividly in my imagination the shocked faces of my sisters, the pain in Mama's eyes. It wasn't that I didn't want to believe, but everything was against it—everything I could see or feel or know. It didn't matter that Mama told me constantly about the Golden Rule and "not a sparrow falleth," and all the other gospel precepts that should guide our lives and thoughts. It only made me feel more guilty and rebellious to watch her work so hard and faithfully and see my sisters obediently accept the necessary sacrifices that poverty demanded, while everything within my being rejected it with one violent, enormous WHY. Why did father have to get killed in the mine? Why did we have to leave our lovely home in Provo and the green lawns and flowers to come to this ugly, horrible mining town with its 256 gouged mountains spilling out their rocky insides into the back yards? Why did Grandfather's mills have to fail? Why did the politicians have to change the tariff? Why should a low tariff make it cheaper to buy imported woolen goods than the ones we could make in Grandfather's mills? It all went back to the Lord and politics. If the Lord would let things like that happen, it was perfectly obvious that he did not care anything at all about what happened to me. Mama had refused to return to Provo after Father's death, because we would be too great a burden on Grandfather. She had decided, realistically, but with much faith and prayer, that we could get along by taking in boarders. Ours was the only boarding house in Eureka that upheld Mormon standards and did -not allow smoking and drinking, so our boarders were mostly serious young men, just home from their missions, who had come to work in the mines. The mines paid high wages, and they could save enough money so that they could buy a piece of land or invest in business down in the _ valley towns. When I was seventeen and had finished high school, Mama finally agreed to let me pin up my hair. I had begun to look at these young men with a new perspective. They were suddenly individuals who might mean something to me besides extra dishes to wash and lunches to pack. WHEN autumn came that year, Mama, with what seemed to me unnecessarily great reluctance, consented for me to go to work for Mr. Pazetti downtown in his ice-cream parlor and cafe. I wanted the job desperately and I had pouted and coaxed for days. I knew that I was not behaving properly, and I hated to 'make things more difficult for Mama, but I was so tired of wearing the older girls' hand-medowns or going without. I felt sure that I was capable of working on a bigger, more important job where I could be of greater help. Mama had been fighting what seemed to me to be a losing battle ever since Father was killed. "LOVE THY NEIGHBOUR" No matter how she tried to manage, there just never was enough money to go around. During family prayers I found it difficult to feel grateful for our — many blessings, which I could never quite recognize. As a matter of fact, I sometimes caught myself wondering how Mama could be so faithful and patient and loving when she never got anything but hard work and worry. I couldn't imagine a worse fate than spending my life in a mining town, as she was deing, waiting on boarders and doing practical nursing for people who were not appreciative enough even to try to pay her, besides all the work of bringing up eight children. At the cafe I did everything from serving the customers to helping Mrs. Pazetti with the cooking. I worked hard, but it seemed different when I was being paid money for it. Mama insisted that my brother Boyden should come to meet me each night after work, because she never allowed us out on the street alone after dark. Eureka, in spite of two churches, a school, and a few reliable business establishments, was still a rough and boisterous mining town. Before I had been working very long, Don Weldon, one of our boarders, asked permission to walk home with me every evening and Mama said yes. This 'made Boyden happy and I was pleased, too. It was fun to walk home sideby-side with Don. I felt grown-up and important. Don was a marvelous person. He told me such interesting stories about his experiences at the university in Salt 257 APRIL 1965 Lake and in the places he had seen in England, where he had been on his mission. Mama had been as far as Logan, once, when she and Father were married. This had always been one of my favorite stories. Now, listening to Don, it seemed to me that I would have to travel and do and see all the exciting things there were in the world. I felt I could never be happy if I didn't. BETWEEN my dreams about the future and my new job, time went by so fast that before I realized it, it was the day before Christmas. That morning I was making doughnuts. The wind was howling and blowing the snow like a blizzard up through Main Street and over the Summit. Mr. Pazetti was chopping wood out in back in the woodshed, and Mrs. Pazetti was filling the counters and setting the tables in front. As I measured and mixed, I glanced up and saw a tramp pass the window. He looked at me briefly, then at the heaping bowl of golden brown doughnuts on the table. I didn't like tramps. They were dirty and _ shiftless. We had been taught that cleanliness was next to godliness, and honest work was second only to faith. I always felt a little uneasy if I knew that a tramp was resting on our back porch, but Mama never turned anyone away cold or hungry. I didn't think Mr. Pazetti would have Mama's consideration for other people, and I crossed curiously to the back door so I could hear what he said. The tramp was asking for work... Anything to earn some food and 258 a night's lodging. Mr. Pazetti turned on him with a torrent of abuse that shamed me to listen. I went back to my table and tried to measure the flour with shaking hands. No one had a right to browbeat another human being that way, I thought indignantly. After all, the tramp wasn't begging, he was willing to work. I heard him start back around the house with Mr. Pazetti shouting at him from the woodshed, and quickly I lifted the window by the table. As he looked up, I gathered as many doughnuts as my hands would hold and reached them out to him. He just looked at me for a long minute, then he took them carefully and _ said, "Thanks, Miss," and was gone. I worked hard and fast. My conscience was pricking, for they were Mr. Pazetti's doughnuts that I had given away. The harder I. Worked the more I worried. I knew that I had to tell Mr. Pazetti what I had done, and when I did he would probably be so mad that he would fire me. The thought of such a calamity made me ill. I just couldn't tell Mama I had lost my job, now that she was depending on my _ seven dollars every week, but I couldn't face her clear eyes with a sin on my conscience, either. I gritted my teeth and took a deep breath to steady my faltering will. I closed my eyes and wished that praying would help. When I opened them Mr. Pazetti was standing in the doorway looking at me. I flushed and stammered, then I grabbed at my courage and blurted out what I had done. For a moment I thought he would pop. He was so mad that his eyes bulged and he sputtered like a tea-kettle on a red-hot stove, then he shouted, "Mama mia! You worka overtime! You maka eet up! Doughnuts -eesa noa cheap. Two hours you staya tonight!" "Oh, thank you, Mr. Pazetti. I'll be glad to work overtime. Thank you very much!" The relief flooded over me. Quickly I turned back to the table and started rolling out the dough befor he could change his mind. WHEN Don came for me at nine o'clock I told him I had to work until eleven. He said he had an errand to do, so that would be fine. By half-past ten everything was finished. The last doughnut was served and the last counter polished and the floors were scrubbed and shining. Mr. Pazetti was beaming at his wellfilled cash register. He turned to me as I stood rubbing glycerine and rose-water into my roughened hands. "You goa home. Eet ees enough," he said. I started to explain that I couldn't leave until Don came back for me, but he waved me away, refusing to listen. "Goa home. Pazetti has beega heart. Tomorrow eesa Chreestmas. Goa home." There was nothing else to do, so I went out into the night. Immediately I was caught up by the wind blowing against my back and driving me along into the storm. It took my breath and whipped my scarf from my throat. I clutched at the scarf, trying to wrap its woolen folds "LOVE THY NEIGHBOUR" closely around my ears and over my mouth and nose. I stumbled blindly in a gap in the board sidewalk and lost the scarf completely, as I grabbed frantically for the side of the building to cling to. I huddled there for a moment deciding to go back to Pazetti's and wait for Don, but as I turned to face the wind a driving sheet of icy snow beat against my unprotected face and drove me back against the building again. I buried my face in my arms, while the storm tore at my coat and wrapped my skirt tightly around my legs. Slowly I inched along the buildings. Everything was closed and deserted. Everyone had obviously hurried home to get out of the storm. As I passed the fire station the buildings ended and I was caught up again in the wind. I turned my back to its force and began to run blindly ahead. The scattered houses were hidden by the density of whirling snow and sleet, and I was guided only by habit and instinct. I gasped for breath, which the wind tore from my throat. My legs were becoming heavy and stubborn. Even with the wind at my back to propel me, I could scarcely make them move. My head pounded and a great pain was stabbing through my chest and into my stomach. Desperately I struggled forward. All of a sudden my foot caught in something and was held tight. I jerked and twisted, trying to loosen it, but it was stuck fast. Slowly I sank down into the snow. I buried my face in my arms to shield it from the wind while I caught my breath. Grad- 259 APRIL 1965 ually I became aware of a rumbling vibration beneath me. I sat bolt upright. I was on the railroad tracks, probably on the switch just below the water tower. The night train from the valley had probably been delayed by the storm and had come in late. Now it had unloaded down at the depot and was on its way up to the water tower. It would be here in a few minutes. My foot must be caught between the rails! I jumped up on my other foot and began to scream and tug and twist violently. The wind seemed to be dying down, for I could hear my screams, terrified and shrill. I began to pray frantically and desperately that God would hear my cries and help me before it was too late. ALL of a sudden a man appeared out of the storm. He must have heard my screams because he was running fast toward me. He stopped and I tried to tell him that the train was coming and my foot was caught in the tracks. My words were jumbled in my frenzied fear, but he seemed to understand. He dropped to his knees and began to tug at my shoe frantically. The vibration from the rails was stronger now. The train was getting closer. I could hear it above the wind. The man worked vigorously, digging with his bare fingers at the ice and snow, then trying to untie my shoe laces and unlace my shoe. Suddenly we were enveloped in a_ blinding light. Terrified, we jerked mightily together and fell sprawling backwards into the snow, loosened and free once more, rolling and 260 scrambling away from the tracks as the train snorted and puffed past us. Weak and trembling, I sat up and looked at my rescuer. I thought I had never seen anyone so angelic. The wind had subsided and the snow was falling gently as a benediction around us. The caboose went by and in the light of the slowly moving lantern I recognized him. It was the tramp to whom [I had given the doughnuts that morning. He leaned toward me. "Are you all right?" he asked. I nodded, unable to speak, staring at him. He wasn't really much older than I was and he didn't seem like a tramp, except for his whiskers and wornout clothes. He looked back at me steadily and then said, "I'm glad it was you I could help, because you helped me this morning... More than you know." He glanced up at the train. It was stopped at the water tank. "I'm going to catch a ride on that train," he said. "I'm going back home. My mother used to make doughnuts like those in our kitchen back on the farm. She'll be glad to see me again. She didn't want me to leave, but I thought the farm was too dull. Thanks again for the doughnuts." He jumped up and ran toward the train, which was starting to move. I watched him as he swung up on the back of the caboose and ran along the top. He turned once and waved. The train picked up speed and disappeared in the night. I watched until it was gone, then I tied my shoelaces and stood up to start home again. The fear and excitement had been too much for me, and I was abruptly sick. I caught hold of a fence and hung on. Finally, I stood by the fence in the clean, cold night and felt I knew that a miracle had happened to me. I could feel the understanding Sweeping through me, filling my being. Instantly and clearly J could comprehend Mama's faith and serenity. All the beautiful truths she had taught me through the years were apparent and meaningful. "As ye sow, so shall ye reap," "Cast thy bread upon the waters..." "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me." It was the birthday of the Christ Child and, suddenly, I knew him. I began to walk. Slowly and deliberately I put my feet down one after the other into the snow, while my spirit soared up to the glory above the clouds. I reached home and walked around to the back door. The kitchen was filled with spicy Christmas smells. The younger children were in the parlor hanging strings of popcorn and cranberries on the Christmas tree, while they recited their verses for the Sunday School pageant. Mama sat by the stove stitching the trimming on their costumes. I felt suddenly deflated. It was So ordinary and commonplace. Somehow it seemed to me that bells should be ringing and trumpets sounding glad hosannas. It was the Savior's birthday! I heard Mama's voice asking, "LOVE THY NEIGHBOUR" "What's the matter, Nettie? Are you sick?" I looked at her and tried, but somehow I couldn't put it all into words. I said the only simple thing I could explain. "I was sicke"' Mama put aside her sewing. She felt my forehead. "You do feel a little feverish," she said. "Here, sit down in the rocking chair." She opened the oven door and I rested my feet against the edge. The warmth from the oven crept up through my cotton stockings and under my skirts. She took one of her pretty china Cups, put in a pinch of ginger and poured boiling water from the teakettle into it, then she added milk and sugar. "A little ginger tea will settle your stomach and warm you up, child, you're shivering." I was shivering, but it was only a nervous reaction. I sipped the fragrant tea slowly, Savoring it. It was not very often that I was privileged to sit in Mama's chair and drink ginger tea from the best china Cups, yet, at that moment nothing less would have seemed worthy. The front door opened and I heard Don's voice asking if I was home. I was Surprised to realize that I had forgotten all about him. He came into the kitchen carrying a long box wrapped in brown paper. The children eyed the package with curiosity. Don looked first at Mama and then at me. "I'm sorry I missed you tonight," he said. "When I went back to Pazetti's you'd already gone. The train from the valley was late on account of 261 APRIL 1965 the storm and I had to wait until it got here." He placed the package in my lap. "Merry Christmas," he said. "It was on that train from Salt Lake. It's almost Christmas and I guess you'd better open it because it's flowers and they might die before morning." I looked at it, trying to adjust my emotions to this new surprise. The children crowded close and Mama took the cup from my hands and gave me a pair of Scissors. "Now isn't that lovely," she said. "Go ahead, Nettie, open them. If they've come all the way from Salt Lake, they surely need water by now." Her words aroused me to action. I cut the strings and pulled away the wrapping paper and lifted the lid. There lay a dozen deep red roses bedded in green fern. Each bud was at least two inches in length and the stems were as long as my arm. "Ohhbhhhhhbhbhh." A great sigh of admiration and wonder escaped from all our throats. "Nettie, you may get the crystal vase from the china cupboard," Mama said. That vase had come all the way across the plains wrapped in Grandma's feather mattress. I swallowed and went to the dining room to get it. I arranged each fragrant beauty in the vase and placed it on the piano. Even the splendor of the Christmas tree diminished i comparison with such elegance, "They're too beautiful to keep all to ourselves," said Mama. "Wouldn't you like to take them to Sunday School in the morning, Nettie? They would look so lovely beside the pulpit, and then everyone could enjoy them with us." I looked at Don and his face was beaming with delight. JI looked back at Mama. Her eyes smiled into mine, steadfast and serene. "Oh, yes, Mama," I answered. '"T'd love to." Quite simply then, at last, I understood. You didn't need bells or trumpets or worldly pleasures —not if you had faith in God and love for all mankind in your heart. Wind Ida A. Isaacson Outside the house and far up there The wind is rough and thin as air. It grapples with the earth and sky Then, disappears |i Across the reaches When all the world It noses at the win ke a sigh. Of the night is void of light dow sill, Moves shadows that are dark and still. It tangles with a single leaf Then moves like moisture on a reef, No flight, no sound of winging bird. Far off in Space the wind is heard. 262 The Image Sara O. Moss ®™ Kathleen drove slowly home in the late afternoon. She was disturbed at her brother's wife Ella, whom she had just visited. She seemed so rigid and extreme in her views on child rearing. "You can't always go by the book, Ella," Kathleen had said. "Sometimes your own good judgment is the better way." Ella had smiled a little wryly. "You're like John," she _ said. "You think I need an image of your old-fashioned Grandma Mack. If you only'knew, Kathleen, how often I have to hear how she reared you and John, stern, but with love and understanding. I guess she was a good little thing and she did the best she could, but I'm really grateful that with three children to rear, I'll have the help of experts. A good psychologist can do more with Connie than all of Grandma Mack's homespun philosophy." Kathleen had been a little hurt inside. Grandma Mack was gone now. She was the only mother she and John had ever known. Kathleen missed her. There had been so much devotion and _ understanding in the small home, and, in rearing her own five children, Kathleen always had Grandma Mack's image before her. It was like a beam of light, guiding, directing, and telling her how to meet life's next obstacle. "But, why," Ella had laughed 263 APRIL 1965 as she stood by Kathleen's car, sometime later, ''did I have to draw the short end of the match —an old mirror I didn't want, and you drew the Chippendale table? I really wanted that, Kathleen. Grandma Mack. Should have left that to John." Kathleen had smiled. "But we drew lots, and I won, fair and square." The women bantered goodnaturedly for a few moments, then Kathleen came away. She was disturbed over things Ella had said about Ella's daughter Connie. THE next morning she watched her sixteen-year-old son Rodney load the Chippendale table into his red-painted jeep. He was taking it to his shop class to be refinished. '""Now, remember," admonished his mother, 'every bit of the old paint and varnish has to come off, before you apply the new."' 'Don't worry, Mom. Mr. Burke will keep his eagle eye on it. It will be a perfect job, you can bet your life on that." Kathleen now watched Rodney drive away. She felt a little guilty, knowing how much Ella wanted to possess the fine little piece, but she felt such an overwhelming joy at having the table. It was elegant, and made up a little for the secret pangs she sometimes had of wanting things, especially when she visited Ella. Ella's home was like the brilliance of fine crystal, the romance of Dresden, and the feel of walking in deep plush. It was at such times that Kathleen had that feeling of wanting things that she knew never could be hers. But now, she did have 264 something. Something very fine and choice—a prideful thing. She went into the chaos of her house, where five boys had left traces of various activities of the evening before. Kathleen picked up a pair of socks and _ shoes, school books, and a record album. There were dozens of things that a family of seven could litter into a pleasurable evening at home. Kathleen looked through the door into the hall as her eyes rested on the small space where © the table might fit. "It's really the only place where the table can be put," she thought to herself, eyeing the worn carpet and the old-fashioned hall tree. "I wish there was a place in the living room, but everything in there is in use." Just then the phone rang. It ~ was Ella. "Can you meet me at the market, Kathleen! I'd like to talk a few minutes. It's about Connie." "What's happened?" asked Kathleen. "T'll tell you when we meet. Drive to the west side of the Big Market. There's usually plenty of room there." Kathleen promised to meet Ella in half an hour. She hurried and straightened the living room, then went out to her car to meet her sister-in-law. Ella was already there at the market. Kathleen pulled up beside her. "What's wrong, Ella?" Ella's face was worn and haggard. "I'm at my wit's end," she said. ''Connie! Neither John nor I can get to her. She won't tell us where she's going, what she's doing, or what she's thinking. If I ask her anything, she gives me a short answer and walks out of the room." Kathleen looked at _ Ella's troubled face. "'She's a teenager, Ella. She will come out of it, you'll see. Just give her a little time." - "Time!" said Ella. "We can't stand much more of this. And John is so worried, too. She isn't doing a thing in school, to speak of. Wouldn't it be terrible if she dropped out of school?" "Have you. Any idea what brought this behavior on? Was there any reason?" Eta sat silent for a few moments. "I guess I nagged, Kathleen. I do blame myself for that. But it started with her hair. That awful hair. She began spending all her allowance for having her hair silver streaked. Imagine that, when she has such pretty blond hair. After that she began using eye shadow. Real heavy, Kathleen. Sometimes it's purple and sometimes it's green or blue, and then black on her eyelashes. Oh, I know I nagged constantly. I said things I was sorry for, but this painted-up child! And that silver hair. I just had to speak my mind."' '"'No wonder she won't talk to you, Ella. She's tired of listening to you. And walking out of the room is the only way of getting relief. It gives her a freedom." Ella studied her words seriously. "I told John we must have a psychologist work with her, but he thinks that will turn her even farther away from us." Kathleen looked off into space. She felt a deep compassion for Ella at that moment, for she knew she had lost Connie, at THE IMAGE least, for the time being. She wanted to tell her to hold the young, erring head close on her shoulder, silver-streaked hair and > blue-laden eyelids included, and see her as a precious gift from God. She wanted to tell Ella to retrace the steps that had caused the conflict between them, and fill each step with generous outpourings of love from her now over-burdened heart. Yet, knowing Ella, Kathleen was sure she would have to have her advice from a book, rather than any - guidance from dear old Grandma Mack's life. "Try the silent treatment," said Kathleen. "Stop nagging at once and you'll see a big difference." "What! And let her walk all over us?" "Tf you have to," smiled Kathleen. '"'At least let her come home to a quiet atmosphere, no matter how you feel." Ella sighed. ''I'll try it,' she said, "but I can't see how we can just stand by and let her ruin her life. I still think we should have a psychologist work with her." Kathleen knew it was useless to try to influence Ella, and the two women parted after doing their marketing, the problem still remaining. It was early evening a few days later. Kathleen was serving her husband Phil and four of the boys from a big casserole dish, -when Rodney came hurrying into the room. He sat down abruptly in his usual place and began eating hungrily. "You are late," said his father, helping the six-year-old at his side. 265 APRIL 1965 "Sorry, Dad,'' said Rodney, "but I worked on the table and it was later than I thought. Guess what, Mom? Mr. Burke said an antique dealer told him that your little table is worth a lot of money. Maybe even five hundred dollars because it's a real Chippendale." Kathleen sat down suddenly. "Oh, Rodney! No fooling?" "That's what he said," confirmed Rodney. Kathleen was shaken with surprise. ''Do you believe that, Phil? Do you think Gram's little table could be worth all that?" "Probably more,' said Phil "Antique hunters pay any price if they find what they're looking for."' Each day, after that, Kathleen asked about the table. First, had all the stain and varnish come off—out of every crevice? And was Rodney sure Mr. Burke had advised him correctly on the filler, the rubbing down, and the sanding! Then the final process, the high gloss varnish, had it been rubbed to a satin finish? "It's smooth as _ silk," said Rodney proudly. ""And you should see how the boys stand around to get an eyeful of the table that's worth a fortune." "T hope you tell them it belonged to your Great-grandmother Mack," said Kathleen, passing the baked apples. "They already know that, too," said Rodney. "Mr. Burke told a man from the newspaper about the table, and he came up and took a picture of it, with me working on it." Kathleen was breathless. The little table even made local news. "It isn't for sale,'' she told more 266 than one interested person. "It was my Grandmother's." FINALLY the table was back in the house. On a quiet Saturday morning it gave Kathleen a restful, confident feeling as though Grandma Mack was there with her radiating presence. Phil had taken the boys to a school exhibit, and Kathleen was cleaning and dusting. Joy was in her heart. She sang as she worked. Suddenly the doorbell rang. Kathleen went to open the door, wondering who was on the other side. "Connie!" Connie was the last person she expected to see. ""What a surprise, Connie. You come so _ seldom. Come in.'"' Kathleen had a feeling of curiosity mingled with her feelings of surprise. Connie crossed the threshold. ''Aunt Kathy, I came to see the Chippendale table," she said with candor. "I heard Mother telling Daddy about it."' "Of course, dear. I'd like you to see it. It belonged to your Great-grandmother Mack, you know. It's in here." The table stood in the living room. "I haven't decided where I'm going to put it for sure." Before Kathleen could explain further, the girl had crossed the room and stood by the heirloom. It was moments before she spoke. "It's beautiful, Aunt Kathy," she said as she touched it almost reverently, stroking the wood of the gleaming surface. Kathleen watched the girl's face, alive with interest, and then she noticed the silver-streaked hair and the purple eye shadow. The lashes looked glued with black mascara. Kathleen knew what Ella meant when she said the girl looked a sight. "My Great - grandmother's?"' asked the girl. "That's right," said Kathleen going to the piano. "This is a small photograph of her.' She handed Connie a little framed picture. "She was quite pretty," said Connie. "She was considered very good looking when she was young. She was about your age there." Connie went back to the table. "You know, Aunt Kathy. I want to work with antiques. I love them." "You—like antiques?" Connie smiled. "I know it sounds funny, doesn't it? I'm only sixteen, but I love to collect things. Do you know I have a lovely vase of early pressed glass that I bought in a second-hand store for almost nothing, and I have a sugar bowl and a paper weight." Kathleen was astonished. "I think that's wonderful, Connie. There is so much you can learn about people and history when you study antiques. I didn't know you were even interested in such a hobby."' Connie grinned. "I guess nobody knows, especially Mother. She would think it was trashy to browse around as I do. I just keep my things in a drawer, but someday I'm going to have a little shop. Right now I'd like to search for an old, old rocking chair and refinish it. I think that would be fun." Kathleen studied a moment. "You know, I might have a few things of Grandma Mack's that THE IMAGE you would like to have for your collection. I know you will adore her little butter dish." "Really?" "And you know, if you're going into antiques, you will enjoy reading your Grandmother Mack's diary." Connie picked up the small photograph. "Aunt Kathy, I'd like to know all about her. She was pretty." '""'We've often said you resemble her." Connie grimaced. "I couldn't look like that if I tried. She's cute." "Just the same you are her great-granddaughter." Connie lingered, reluctant to leave. ""You've been so_ sweet, Aunt Kathy." KATHLEEN watched her go, straight and tall, the sun shining on the crown of her silver-streaked hair. '"Teens," she said. "They ruin the beauty God gave them." She went back into the living room. Suddenly she knew what to do for Ella, John, and Connie. Like a blueprint, the pattern unfolded before her. The little table shone up at Kathleen, as though Grandma Mack was there moving another obstacle from her life. Kathleen hurried to the telephone. After some _ explaining, she convinced Ella and John to come up to her house. "'Connie has been here,"' she said. "'I'll tell you more when you come." John and Ella arrived within a half hour, curiously wondering what Kathleen had found out about Connie, and why she had come. "She came to see the table," 267 APRIL 1965 said Kathleen, and then she told them the girl's secret love for antiques, how she was waiting for the time when she could have her own little shop. "She confided this secret to me, for want of a listening ear at home. Dreams maybe, but it is your medium of reaching her right now. Ella, you'll just have to disregard what she brings home, even if these objects do look dirty and messy to you. It might litter your place up a bit, but what of it? As it is, you have lost her." "Kathleen's right, Ella," said John. "We have lost Connie as far as having her confidence. I was thinking I could give her a working place in the garage, or the toolshed, Ella." "She'll need it," laughed Kathleen. "Right now she would like to find an old, old rocking chair and refinish it." "That I would like to see," said John, but Ella threw up her hands. '"'We might never have known what Connie has been thinking along these lines. She has been clammed up for months, but now we have something to go on, and believe me, I'm going to do all I can to help her get her little hobby started." John rose. "T'll start today to make some shelves for her paints and whatever it takes to clean up old rocking chairs." Ella shuddered at the very thought. When they had gone, Kathleen put the little photograph on the table. Grandma Mack had done it again—moved toward another generation. Her image would be the guiding light in Connie's life and the children she might have. Kathleen was sure of that. At the moment in her heart she let go of the little Chippendale table. At the right time and the right place, she would give it to Connie. When Connie got her own home, Kathleen was sure that it would be Connie who would carry the image of Grandma Mack for other generations. So You Must Try Your Wings Mabel Jones Gabbott The mother wren is wiser far than 1; | watch her in her nest in the linden tree; She brings her babies food, and carefully Beneath her wings she shelters them. When the sky Is dark and troubled, with watchful guarding eye She fends against a seeming danger. Small And featherless, the birds accept it all. Then comes the time when they must learn to fly. This she cannot do for them; and so She pushes each one from the nest; they go Faltering at first, then winging, soaring high. So you must try your wings | know. And | Shall hope to be as brave as any wren, Knowing you will return again, again. 268 "Sufficient Unto the Day " Inthe Sermon on the Mount as given in Matthew, the Savior declared these words, ''Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof." Increasingly as one gains a wider perspective with the years, the value, almost the necessity of heeding these words of the Savior become paramount. While many memories fade with time, there persist many memories of fears and anxieties—''borrowed troubles'' which plagued one's earlier life. ''What if—? How can | stand it if—?'' These remembered dreads, conjured up by "'if'' were mulled over not in conformity with the words of the Savior. Looking back, moreover, it seems as if the 'ifs'? One worried about did not usually materialize. It was the unexpected evil that caused the distress. Often a member of a family over whom one secretly worried was not the one who brought suffering to the soul. What can one do to keep from borrowing trouble and live in conformity with the admonition ''Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof'? Many of our ''borrowed troubles' arise from our fears. When the tempest arose at sea, the Savior rebuked the disciples, "'Why are ye fearful, O ye of little faith?" (Matthew 8:26). In order to lose fears one needs to strengthen one's faith. A few people seem to have so much faith they can accept what comes to them, and live with it in a hopeful spirit of implicit trust in the Lord; but the majority of people continue to borrow trouble. How needless were the fears of Jesus' disciples as one looks back. How needless today is the forecasting of troubles. A mother's heart may be heavy with fears. When she sees a tendency in a child EDITORIAL which causes her concern, then is the time to correct the tendency unwaveringly but in a Spirit of love. This will save her Many an "if" fear the Twenty-third Psalm. Scriptures which Strengthen one's faith lighten the abyss of the soul where the '"'ifs'"' lurk. Apostles and training and teaching them at the Last Supper, the last for him on earth. In all the circumstances through which one passes, it is well to remember that the present moment is all that must be borne. It is rebuked the troubled tempest and sea with the command, 'Peace be still" (Mark 4:39). Use of Selections From the Literature Text In response to inquiries which have come to the General Board regarding the duplicating of selections for class use from the Relief Society literature text Out of the Best Books, we give the following information: In the textbook under "Acknowledgments," pages xiii to xiv, a listing of the selections under copyright restrictions are given. It is not permissible for a class leader to duplicate any of the selections listed therein. Selections other than those listed, where no copyright restrictions have been imposed by the authors, may be duplicated by the class leader for use in the class. Stake Social Science Leadership Department in Summer Not to Be Held It is not expected that a stake leadership social science department be held for the four summer month lessons of the course, "Teaching the Gospel in the Home." This is in conformity with the Handbook instructions that no leadership meetings be held during the four-month summer period (Handbook, page 70). Color Transparencies for Use in The Relief Society Magazine Where Relief Societies or Magazine readers wish to submit pictures for use in the 4-color section of the Relief Society Magazine, the transparencies must be of excellent quality, clear and distinct in detail, and of deep, rich color. Sizes larger than 35 mm. Kodachrome transparencies are preferred. Colored photograph prints or their negatives are not satisfactory for reproduction. In photographing subjects focus on the object itself at close range. 272 Anne S. W. Gould (at gospel brings joy into our lives because we learn to love people. We realize we are all brothers and sisters, children of the Heavenly Father, all learning our lessons in the school of life. To love people we must have patience and tolerance. It is easy to love people you know love you, but it is hard, sometimes, to love or even like some people with whom we come in contact. We should see all people as God's spirit children, for each one is dear to the Heavenly Father. Then how can we be impatient or critical? A Chinese proverb says, "Draw a veil over your neighbor's faults, and think of his virtues." If you can't see any virtues, think of your own faults, he may not see any virtue in you either. Our Lord Jesus Christ said in John's gospel, "A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another.... By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples. (John 13:34-35). These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full" (John 15:11). In accepting the gospel in its fulness, we forget our small selves in trying to bring happiness to those around us. We learn to serve and to be helpful in many ways, which, in turn, help us to overcome selfishness and faults. Often we fail, but if it is the great desire of our life, we are helped by the Holy Spirit and as we try, so our joy is. Clara Horne Park | io can we become master of ourselves unless we read the scriptures? In them we have eternal life. In them we can discover glorious truths and hopes of a greater life worthy of striving for, worthy of obtaining, and necessary to our salvation as children of God. In the book of James we read: "But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, and easy to be entreated, full of mercy and good fruits; without partiality, and without hypocrisy. "And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace, of them that make peace" (James 3:17-18). "Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up" (Ibid., 4:10). How great is God and how wondrous are his works! As sisters of Relief Society and daughters of our Father in heaven, we seek for wisdom, peace, good fruits, and humility. We gain strength by reading his word. 273 Garrison H. Davidson Chairman, 1965 Crusade Do you have iatrophobia? It's not a serious disease. It's easy ~ to cure. But too many people have it. Iatrophobia means fear of going to the doctor. The cure? Picking up the phone and making an appointment with your doctor for a complete physical checkup. If Americans with iatrophobia would only take the cure, 92,000 lives could be saved from cancer this year which otherwise will be lost. These deaths are caused as much by people's attitudes as by cancer. Too many people whose cancers could be cured wait too long to call their doctors. Be alert to Cancer's Seven Danger Signals. Unusual bleeding or discharge A lump or thickening in the breast or elsewhere A sore that does not heal Change in bowel or bladder habits Hoarseness or cough; Indigestion or difficulty in swallowing Change in a wart or mole NO Se @ hr See your doctor immediately if any of Cancer's Seven Danger Signals lasts more than two weeks. See your doctor every year for a health checkup. About 47,000 men and women will die of lung cancer in the United States this year. The American Cancer Society estimates that about 75 per cent of these deaths will be caused by cigarette smoking. The American Cancer Society says to stop smoking if you can; don't start the cigarette habit if you do not already smoke. During April the American Cancer Society conducts its educational and fund-raising Crusade to support Research, Education, and Service. More lives will be saved when more people learn to take personal protection against cancer. TO CURE MORE — GIVE MORE! 274 A State of Mind Lael J. Littke ® Grandma Olsen leaned her rake against the apple tree and sat down on the bench William had built so many years ago. Whew, she thought, this yard gets bigger very year. Of course, it might be that she wasn't as young as she used to be. At eighty-one, she told herself defensively, a person has a right to get a bit winded. She glanced across the street where she could see Edith Parker kneeling by her front fence planting flowers. Then she sighed and looked at her own weedy flower beds. Inthe past before ~ her knees got so stiff she had a flower garden, too. Why, Edith Parker's flowers couldn't hold a candle to the ones she used to grow. It took a lot of work, though, and she just couldn't do it any more. But Edith Parker was young. Only forty-eight. The prime of life. All the energy in the world. Grandma Olsen hoped she realized how fine it was to be fortyeight. Husband well established. Lovely home. Those early years of struggle far behind. Children (all worthy of a mother's pride) were nearly all grown. Dear little grandchildren coming along regularly. Relief Society president. So needed by everyone. Grandma Olsen had been Relief Society president once, too. It had been a hard job, but now she remembered only the joy of giving service. It seemed as if no one needed her any more. Her children came to visit frequently, but they didn't really need her as they used to, to come and give a new baby its first bath and the other things that had given her so much pleasure. They had grandchildren of their own, now. Her thoughts were interrupted by a small treble voice. "Be happy sings the little bu-u-u-uurd," it sang, "on boughs beneath the b-u-l-u-u-ue." The 275 APRIL 1965 owner of the voice, a pig-tailed little person of four years,. Appeared around the corner of the house, furiously pedaling a battered red tricycle. "Hi, Grandma called. "Hello, Cindy," said Grandma Olsen. Cindy belonged to Louise and Bert McCafferty next door, but she lived at Grandma's house as much as her mother would allow and called her ''Grandma," as everyone else in the neighborhood did. "What are you doing?" she asked, skidding to a squeaky stop by the bench under the apple tree. "Just resting," said Grandma. "Why?" "Y'm a little out of breath." "Why?" "T've been raking my yard all morning." "Why?" Cindy's agile mind suddenly changed directions, thus saving Grandma from further explanations. "Guess what?" said Cindy, her blue eyes sparkling. "You know my old cat, Siam? Well, he had kittens. Four of them." "You mean she had kittens," said Grandma. "Who did?" Cindy asked. "Your cat. Siam must be a lady cat." "No," said Cindy, "he's just a mama cat. And you know what? I know a great big secret. Want to know?" "I certainly do." "Cross your heart you won't tell?" Olsen," she GranpMA Olsen drew an X over her heart. Cindy scrambled from 276 her trike and pulled the gray head down close to her own bright blonde one. "We're going to get a brand new baby soon. My mama told me," Cindy whispered. "Well, what do you know about that?" "About what?" asked Cindy. Grandma _ laughed helplessly. She was glad when Cindy's active mind was distracted again. "Look," Cindy said, pointing across the street. "Sister Parker is digging for angleworms." "T think she's planting flowers," said Grandma. "Why?" asked Cindy. "I'd rather dig for worms." She leaned over and poked a finger into the grass and then jumped up again. "May I have a drink of water?" "Surely. Run in and get one." Funny, smiled Grandma, Cindy unfailingly had to have a drink of water when she came to visit. She thought the water at Grandma's house tasted better than it did at her own home. Grandma watched the sturdy little girl skip up the back steps and into the neat kitchen. Maybe that's the matter with me, she thought. Here I am thinking that the grass is greener on the other side of the fence, so to speak. I'm envying Edith Parker when I should be grateful that I've had such a good life. A wonderful life, as a matter of fact. Happy. Healthy. Six lovely children. A good, kind husband who never had a sick day in his life until the heart attack took him so swiftly away eight years ago. They had worked hard to rear their children in the right way, and now she could look back on a job well done. Her sons had both been bishops. All her children had married well. She was proud of them. And come to think of it, there was still plenty to do. Her oldest great-grandchild, a gentle grayeyed girl, had asked her to help make her a wedding gown because she wanted an '"old-fashioned" dress. She would have to be thinking about that. She wanted to sew a little dress for Cindy, too. Yellow, to be symbolic of the sunshine Cindy had brought into her life. I'm still healthy and active, thought Grandma Olsen, and able to do a lot of things. Why, Edith Parker will be mighty lucky if she has such a good life. * * * Epiru Parker carefully placed the tiny seeds into the ground and covered them lightly. She really shouldn't be taking the time to plant flowers. There was marketing to do. She should iron her husband's shirts. Or work on the layette she was making for her oldest daughter's expected baby. Or write a letter to Don who was a missionary in Norway. Or plan about some Relief Society matters. Or go see Sister Dawson who had fallen and. Broken her ankle. There were so many things to do, but she had to get the seeds into the ground or she wouldn't have the flowers to enjoy in the late summer and fall. She wished she could raise flowers as nice as those which Grandma Olsen used to have. She made a mental note to dash over and ask Grandma her secret of growing nasturtiums. They were so colorful and Edith liked to take a bowl of them to brighten up the Relief Society A STATE OF MIND room, which was badly in need of paint. Another thing she would have to take care of. So many things took her out of her home these days. But then, with just Peggy left at home, she wasn't needed so much there any more. Edith sighed deeply and glanced across the street where Grandma Olsen was raking her yard. She certainly got around well for one so old. Next door to Grandma, Edith saw Louise McCafferty hanging clothes in the sunshine. Obviously she was washing tiny garments in preparation for the new baby. The best time of life, thought Edith. Busy, but oh, so happy. And exciting. What could match the excitement of welcoming a new baby into your home? Of watching the baby grow into a small, inquisitive child, learning, experimenting, discovering the wonders of the world. And depending so much on mother. You lived in a world of peanut butter and bedtime stories and laughter. Her own early married years had been hard ones, with Harry working for an advanced degree and never enough money, but they had been happy years. From her present perspective they seemed to be the best years, the growing years, when so much lay ahead, when all the children were safe at home, before the world intruded and took them away to marriage, to college, to foreign countries. "Mother," wailed a young voice. The screen door slammed and sixteen-year-old Peggy appeared on the porch, her young face tragic under a mountain of curlers. ''"Mother,"' she repeated, 277 APRIL 1965 "T've tried and tried to put a new hem in my blue dress, but it just won't look right.'' She was close to tears.: Well, thought Edith, here I sit feeling sorry for myself when I've still got one more fledgling, and it looks as if she needs me now. "T'll fix it, dear," she said, "'as soon as I get these sweet peas planted." "Oh, Mother, will you?" asked Peggy. "Ill come and help you with the flowers." She jumped off the front porch, not bothering with the steps, and ran to her mother's side. "I just have to look nice tonight," she said. "Roger is such a dreamboat and this is: my first date with him. Just think, he's student body president and everything." E pit smiled to herself listening to Peggy's happy chatter. Those early years when the children were very young were wonderful —it was like planting seeds in fertile ground. You planted ideas and values and standards in young minds and then carefully nurtured them as they grew. Perhaps more exciting than the planting was seeing how those seeds developed. You had to be careful with young plants. They needed a steadying hand. Edith smiled at the budding young woman beside her who wasn't quite yet a self-sufficient plant. Life is never dull with a teenager around the house, she thought. Her thoughts then went to her other children, scattered as they were all over the world. Don's enthusiastic letters from Norway were always an inspiration. Rex was learning so many new things at college. Joan, in 278 Boston with her medical student husband, was soon going to need her help with a new baby, and Edith was looking forward to the trip to a new place. Laura, from her ranch home in Montana, wrote hilarious letters about their adventures raising cattle. Oh, it was a good life, full to the brim. And challenging, too, what with all the problems of heading up a Relief Society organization. And so satisfying. Peggy was still talking about her "dreamboat" Roger. "He will be going away to college next year," she said, "and then he plans to go on a mission. After that he wants to study law." In a few more years, thought Edith, we'll have all the excitement of another wedding. Perhaps it will be Roger. Maybe someone else. But I am confident she will pick the "right" one, just as the others did. In the meantime I'm going to enjoy having her at home for a little while longer. Louise McCafferty pinned a tiny nightgown to the line and sighed. She just didn't feel prepared for the new baby that would be arriving just about any day. There was so much work already and she never seemed to get finished. And Cindy and Jeffrey—it was always Mama this and Mama that. She didn't know how she would ever find time to do all the things one must do for a new baby. Pausing for a moment to rub her aching back, she saw Peggy Parker kneeling beside her mother in a flower bed, talking excitedly. She had her hair put up in big curlers. Probably had a big date that night. She would dress up in a pretty gauzy something and go dancing. Louise touched her own straight hair and looked down at her shapeless smock. She felt so big and clumsy. And so—well, - frumpy. There had been a time when she was carefree and happy like Peggy. What wonderful years they were. How lucky Peggy was. No endless diapers to wash. No worries about how to stretch a meager salary over an_ insurmountable pile of bills. Time to be just yourself. Time to make yourself pretty for someone you liked. She wished she and Bert could go back to the years when they were dating. Poor Bert. He was working so hard to provide a good Jife for her and Cindy and Jeffrey, and the new baby, too. Bert was always tired when he came home. She was always tired, too, and was not these days the pretty, gay girl Bert had dated. She hoped Peggy Parker knew what a_ glorious time of life she was enjoying right now and was taking advantage of every golden moment. She had so much to anticipate. "Mommy," called two-year-old Jeffrey, toddling across the grass to her side. "Picture." Proudly he held up a paper on which he had scribbled a colorful hodgepodge with his crayons. "Qh, you blessed little boy,"' laughed Louise, hoisting him awkwardly into her arms. "What a beautiful picture you made for Mommy." Jeffrey laughed, kissed her cheek juicily, and squirmed to be put back on his feet. How silly can a person be, thought Louise, grinning to herA STATE OF MIND self. I'm envying Peggy because she has all her life ahead of her and here I am right in the middle of what I always looked forward to and don't even have the good sense to appreciate it. What are dates compared to a little son who draws pictures for Mommy? And a loving husband who works his heart out for you? And a little daughter who is a living question mark and you never know what she is going to wonder about next? Louise bent over and picked up a soft sweater and hung it on the line. Soon there'll be a new little soul, she thought, a delightful baby who may someday be the President of the United States. Who knows? And even if he isn't, he will be a wonderful human being and I've had a part in creating him. Or her. By the way, she reminded herself, I must remember to ask Grandma Olsen if she can run over—well, not run over, at her age—but come over and give him a bath or two when I get home from the hospital. The words to one of Cindy's Primary songs came to her. "Be happy sings the little bird, on boughs beneath the blue." Happiness was not any particular age, she decided, it was a state of mind. Everyone has problems, at any age, but there are compensations and blessings, if you just take the time to think of them. Humming happily, Louise finished hanging the clothes. Why couldn't she look nice like Peggy did? It didn't take so long to wind up your hair on curlers. She would sit down and do it as soon as she went in so her hair would be nice and fluffy 279 APRIL 1965 when Bert came home. And she would make the soup that he liked so much for dinner. Just to let him know how much she loved him and her life with him. Prccy Parker chattered gaily, but behind the carefree talk was a nagging doubt. What if Roger didn't like her? There were so many girls who would like to go out with him. What would she say to him? What if he didn't ask her out again? Oh, she would just flip if he didn't ask her for another date. Perhaps she could ask him to help her with chemistry. He was a whiz in chemistry. There was a big exam coming up and she certainly could use some help. Peggy stopped planting seeds for a moment and looked across the street at Grandma Olsen's house. There was little Cindy 'McCafferty playing in Grandma's yard. Now that was the best age to be. No problems. Someone else took care of your every need. All you had to do was eat and sleep and play. No worries about school or making the right impression on a boy. Wouldn't it be wonderful to be four years old again? Peggy sighed. "IT haven't had a chance, to tell you," said her mother, "because I wanted to talk to your father first, but I got a letter from Alice Wall yesterday, and she has invited you to come and stay with them for a month this coming summer. Your father and I think we can send you on the plane if you want to go." "If I want to go," exclaimed Peggy. ''Oh, mother, how perfectly divine." 280 Alice Wall was Diana Wall's mother and Diana Wall had been Peggy's absolutely best friend all her life until her family moved to another city 1000 miles away a year before. Just think of going to visit her. On a plane. All by herself. A plane! She and Diana used to dream all the time of being stewardesses when they were old enough. Now she could find out if she really liked flying. Or if she would rather go to nursing school. She and Diana would talk about it. Oh, they had months and months of news to discuss. She wished Diana were here right now so she could tell her about Roger. And all her worries about the coming date. Oh, fudge, so what if he didn't like her. There were certainly other boys around. Why, Dave Brenner said hello to her in the hall just two days ago and he was none other than the greatest football star Scofield High had ever had. Well, she wasn't going to worry anymore about the date with Roger. She was just going to go and have a good time. She must remember to run across the street and ask Grandma Olsen if she would lend her the pretty flower she had made in Relief Society. It would look so nice on her blue dress. Peggy laughed aloud. How wonderful it was to be sixteen years old and have so many thrilling things ahead. Cinpy!"' Cindy heard her mother's call and debated briefly whether she should pretend she hadn't heard. But Mama had told her just yesterday what a big girl she was now and how much she needed her help, so she decided she had better go home. But first she took one more drink, her third today, from the omate, old-fashioned faucet in Grandma Olsen's sink. Mama said that the same water that came to Grandma Olsen's house came to their house, but Cindy didn't believe it. She knew the water that came from that carved faucet with the long curving handle was much colder, much clearer. Sometimes she pretended the fancy faucet was magic and that lemonade poured from it instead of water. It wasn't hard to imagine. Cindy climbed down from the chair by the sink and danced across the shining kitchen linoleum toward the back door. Before she went out she peeped into the bathroom at the enormous white bathtub that stood there on slender little clawed feet. Not at all like the plain square tub at home. Someday she would ask Grandma if she could have a bath in that tub. She ran out the back door calling, "I'm coming, Mama." Grandma Olsen was raking her yard again. Cindy stopped to watch her stack some weeds into a neat pile. "Thanks for the water, Grandma Olsen," she said. ""You're welcome, Cindy." Cindy wondered if she dared ask Grandma Olsen to show her how her teeth came out. She guessed Grandma was too busy right then. "Cindy!" called her mother a second time. Wasn't it annoying to have someone always telling you what to do? Wouldn't it be wonderful to be a little old lady like GrandA STATE OF MIND ma Olsen and live by yourself in a little house that was neat as a pin? And have fancy curved faucets in your kitchen sink that poured out lemonade if you wanted them to? And a bathtub that stood on little clawed feet? And have teeth that you could take right out of your mouth and put in a glass of water overnight? And have a big box of old Christmas cards that you could take out, and look at all the pretty pictures? And a big rocking chair with a fat cushion? And a jewel box full of sparkly brooches? And a bench under an apple tree? Oh, thought Cindy fervently, I wish I were as old as Grandma Olsen. "I've got to go now," Cindy told Grandma Olsen. 'I'll come back as soon as I can." '""You do that," said Grandma. "And my old cat Siam, I'll tell you if he has any more kittens." "T still think he must be a lady cat." "No, just a mama cat. And I'll tell you if my mother goes after the new baby." "T'll be waiting to hear." Cindy climbed onto her tricycle and roosted precariously on the back edge of the seat. "I'm a cowboy," she informed Grandma Olsen, ''and this old horse is about to buck me off. Giddyup." She pedaled off, rounding the corner of the house on two wheels. "Be happy sings the little bu-u-u-urd," she yodeled, "on boughs beneath the b-u-l-u-u-ue."' As long as I can't be a little old lady like Grandma Olsen, she thought, I'm glad I've got a red tricycle that can turn into a horse just any old time I want. 281 We Are God's Children Rixta Werbe Bremerhaven, Germany ™ At the age of seventeen, when I had reached the threshold of adulthood and, therefore, was exposed to decisive influences upon my future life, I heard this sentence: "There are no bad people. If someone does something bad, there is a cause, a reason, why he acts like that." I do not wish to examine at this point to what extent this statement is correct. In any case, at that time I had reached an age at which I believingly accepted the words of any adult person, and looking back now, I am grateful for those words which did not only change me, but my whole life. In fact, I would like to say that even today, many years later, I can still believe that statement without any reservations.—Isn't it wonderful when you know only "good" people? Doesn't one avoid much trouble, perhaps even heartache? The people hadn't changed any, and, perhaps, before, I would certainly have considered some of them evil,. But instead of condemning, I tried from then on to discover the reason for their actions, and by doing this, tolerance and sympathy took over; for I attempted to penetrate their feelings in order to understand their actions, and by doing this, I frequently discovered the difficulties and troubles surrounding people. I realized that there may be many reasons—fear, perhaps caused by bad experiences; lack of. Ability, which might lead to this person being teased or to be compared unfavorably with others; distrust and lack of confidence in others, often justified; the desire to please or impress others, perhaps brought about by extreme loneliness.... One can extend this list infinitely, and, looking more closely at these reasons, one will discover that many of them have to do with others, their personality, and reactions. Did you ever notice how easy it is to justify your deeds, to find an excuse? Well, if you seriously try to do this for the wrongdoings of others, you will reach a point where you can find an "excuse" for every wrong committed by them. Of course, we should not do this in our own case, but rather try to be as good as possible; but I think we may do it with others, for we are not to be their judges. God will judge them. And the direct results? Because we approach everybody with genuine love, they will return those feelings. When we discover weaknesses or similar things, we do not turn away from people, but endeavor to help them. Our continued friendship alone may give them strength—they will know that they are not alone—and in many cases create a desire in them to change, in order to retain this friendship. Often, people will strive to become what we think they are, if we let them feel that we respect them, love them, and have a high opinion of them. If a child knows that his parents think he is a good pupil, he will try harder to get good grades than in a case where. The parents make him understand he is only average and will never amount to much. It is the same with grownup people. Additional advantages are that we do not get angry nearly as often as before, that we get a lot more joy out of our fellow men and, thus, from our own lives. Every time I meet someone who is not nice to others, who, perhaps, even hurts them, I cannot hate him, but, instead, I feel very sorry for him, because I think of how lonely he will be some day, making everybody his - enemy. This way of thinking is by no means unreasonable; for is it not possible that there is some good in everybody? We are God's children, and every one of us has divine attributes. When I first heard this statement, I was not a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and did not tend to consider everything from a spiritual point of view; but, today, I know that this sentence has helped me to love my neighbor as myself, and that, without this thought, I would have had much less joy in life and far fewer friends. Amelia Davis Everett If I should entitle this essay "How to Get What You Want," I assume it would get more attention, but I would still have to travel the route our thoughts should take, for thoughts are seeds of words and deeds. All things are first created spiritually. We cannot see a thought, but we can see the result of a thought. Fear, anger, sadness, or joy, love or compassion often register in our faces. Other thoughts have their effect even though they may not be seen. The great St. Paul put it this way: "... The things which are seen are temporal; but the things which are not seen are eternal' (II Cor. 4:18). It is a psychological truism that what we think about most we draw unto ourselves. Like begets like! The wise Solomon epitomized it this way: " as he [a man] thinketh in his heart, so is he" (Prov. 23:7). Weighty problems require concentration of thought. Concentration of the sun's rays through a magnifying glass can start a fire. Likewise, concentration of thought in deep meditation, or prayer, can burn away many of our problems, or reveal the right course to take. True prayer is the expression of sincere thought — not just words. The Master gave this significant admonition accompanied with a _ promise: Proposal Muriel Jenkins Heal To her his words of love Were ripples on the sea, Or rainbows hung from sunshine's rays When rain clouds ceased their sovereignty. She smiled a tear away And turned to hide another, But squeezed a reply to the tiny voice That asked, ''Will you marry me, Mother?" 284 "Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find..." (Matt. 7:7). To ask, one must have a purpose, and seeking may require much time and great effort. When the way is found — apply the heat of thinking, with faith unwavering! Beware of evil thoughts—they will light on any head, uninvited, but we need not let them roost there and hatch troubles for us. Shoo them away! This is not done with a club or a fly swatter. We must crowd out evil with good thoughts. We should think of what we ought to be doing, then do it. We can act only where we are in life, but we can think over the whole area of our lives. Regardless of the wide area we may think over, and the many conflicting influences we have to combat, we are responsible for whatever we decide or determine. We pretty well have to map our own courses for the years ahead. Fear thoughts cannot be entirely shunned, but they 'should be ousted as quickly as_ possible. Fear is the opposite of faith; thus, if we let fear in, it causes faith to waver, and it can defeat our purpose. Control of thought is necesTHE NATURE OF THOUGHT sary, though it is not easy. Try it for even three minutes and you will realize that thoughts flicker and dart hither and thither. We cannot get our thumbs on them, nor nail them down. It takes conscious effort. In other words, it takes thought to control thought. Difficult though this is — it is the key to attaining success. I was helped by a sign over the door of a study room. It said something like this: "If your mind wanders from the subject 999 times, bring your mind back to the subject 999 times, and you will eventually conquer it." One must keep in tune with one's purpose, or at least get on the beam with the right thought, and the right thought must be strong enough to brighten the beam. This is constructive thinking, or the law of thought by which we accomplish our purpose. Thought is the seed, act is the blossom, character is the fruit. Prayer is thought, thus God has given us the key to help answer our own prayers. "As a Man Thinketh SoIs He." The Children Lael W. Hill Yesterday is a big boy now— He runs down paths | cannot see. His laughter haunts.... | may not go, But here's today to comfort me. Today is my darling baby girl— | hold her close in love and sorrow; Her moment's need is mine to fill.... | have not yet conceived tomorrow. 285 | Visited a Relief Evelyn J. Barlow I visited a Relief Society nursery and here's what I found: A lot of smiles, some happy noise, A group of active girls and boys With eager eyes and restless feet; I tiptoed in and took my seat. I wondered how this leader, who Walked in quite calm, could tame this crew; But, as I watched, I feared no more, She very firmly closed the door, And, smilingly calling each by name, Made routine tasks a happy game. The prayer was said, then songs and fun, Stories and games—for everyone! They colored and cut, pasted and glued. And even my daughter was subdued. When lunchtime came, they ate with glee, And one little boy even shared with me! Then they rested a minute or more, Wrapped in their blankets on the floor. Then, up again for finger play, And a quick cleanup—in an orderly way. I left with my child—all smiles—and then, She said, "Please, Mommy, let's come again!" Solace for Tears Dorothy J. Roberts | have been blessed: A child has grown To a small, new woman, Not mine alone, Not mine to hold As the child she was, But mine to give To a greater cause. I have been blessed: The child that curled Close in my lap, Can face the world, Can walk alone And can defend And keep her faith Until the end. Society Nursery What a wonderful feeling to send my child into this kind of atmosphere, where everything, perfectly organized, runs smoothly and effectively, where the children can really learn. Truly it is a little bit of heaven when a child goes willingly and eagerly into a nursery, where I have complete confidence that he will not only be well cared for, but taught, with the chance to learn how really to get along with others and share in a well-planned nursery program. I have seen in past years, as my children began to reach kindergarten age, that they became completely bored with the nursery and only came with me because I insisted. What a change the first time planned activity was presented! My daughter came out with a smile instéad of a frown, refreshed, instead of weary, anxious to show me what she had made at "Relief Society." Now that she is in school, and her little sister has reached nursery age, instruction is more and more informative and well planned. I feel, also, that everyone with nursery-age children can do much to aid the program by keeping ill children at home, and by training children in the home to be courteous and obedient. I thank my Heavenly Father for the Relief Society and for the nursery program, and hope that I may be able to do my part in keeping it successful. New Serial ''Ring Around Her Heart'' to Begin in May A new serial "Ring Around Her Heart," by Shirley Thulin will begin in the May 1965 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The story relates the problems and vital decisions that confront Joan Morgan, a young nurse, in her efforts to achieve happiness and fulfillment as a woman who tries to harmonize love and service in her life. Shirley Thulin, the author, is well known to readers of the Magazine for her serials, stories, and homemaking articles which have been featured over the past several years. The new serial offers drama, life-like portraits of real people, and a subtle and inspiring development of personalities under stress of circumstances: 287 Kathryn E. Franks Spring has arrived early! I know, by the touch of the soft spring air when I throw open the window, that the last patch of snow has melted down beside the pond, near Willow Lane. The apple trees behind the lilac bush have flowered in pinkish white blossoms. Already some of the petals are dropping like soft rain on the new green grass below... And along the walk yellow and lavender crocuses have started to bloom. Next door, in my neighbor's yard, baby chicks peep and scratch. In the distance woolly lambs bleat on an April hill. A delicate breeze ruffles my curtains. I know if I put on my walking shoes and walk down the old road until I reach the edge of the woods, near the marshes, I will find pussy willows... And close to the fence posts the wild violets may, just may, be purple with petals. There is a wild desire to hurry through my morning's work... To rush outside. Though dirty dishes are piled in the sink, the boys' room in a horrible state of clutter, and dust everywhere... I want to forget it, and go. It is no time for baking pies when the sky is a pastel blue; no time for dusting when the soil is ready for a hoe. How can I concentrate on a broom when the honeybees hum outside my window, and the fragrance of blossoms flcats through my open door. And I wouldn't need a sweater; no sweater at all. As a child eager for skates, a bike, and a kite, I run to the closet and dig out my old shoes, and dash out the door. Never Land and Home Blanche Kendall McKey 'Where are you going, my little brown son? Where are you going today?" "To sail a river and climb a hill — | think | know the way." Of course he knows the way! Oh the wind blows low and the wind blows sweet Where never a moment is dreary; But he will come back when his shoes are scuffed And his seeking heart is weary, When his loving heart grows weary! One Se Hundred Years of Visiting 4 P r Boy) Py Teaching iy Bertha Dickinson (left), and Melvina Jolley (right) of Santaquin-Tintic Stake, Utah, have served a total of more than one hundred years as visiting teachers. Sister Dickinson started teaching in 1900, when she was nineteen years old, and was a visiting teacher in Panguitch, Utah, for twenty-three years. After moving to Santaquin, she served in the same capacity for twenty-nine years. Sister Jolley became a visiting teacher soon after her marriage and served thirteen years in Liberty, and thirty-seven years in Elberta and Santaquin. Hundreds of families have been encouraged, enlightened, and blessed by the faithful efforts of these devoted and "experienced" teachers. You Gan Tell Them Christie Lund Coles Let others say they knew my graver moments; My brief words, and my sometimes witty tongue; Some knew me when | tossed a saucy head, When | was swift of step and summer young. Let others say they knew my gravest moments; Some walked beside me when the path was steep. But you can tell them in some far tomorrow, Oh, you can tell them that you saw me weep. 289 inside and out Baby Bonnet Viade From a Handkerchief Opal F. Christensen Use a handkerchief with a wide lace border, about 11/ inches. Take one side and fold up about 214 inches. Pin to hold. This is the front of the bonnet. On the opposite side (back) fold the lace edge under and press. Mark the center back of the bonnet on the lower edge, then fold the bottom two corners over to the center back to make a V. (See figure 1.) Pin together at lace edges in back, then blind stitch the pleat on the reverse side of the bonnet along the two triangles where the material is double. (See figure 2.) Place 4 ribbon and two lace rosettes which hold bonnet in place, one in back where V comes to point: one in center front; one on each side, with ribbon tie underneath. Sew rosettes through all thicknesses of the handkerchief. (See figure 3.) To make rosettes: Use a 3-inch length of 34 inch wide nylon lace. Gather on one edge and draw up, making a tight center. Do the same with a 54 inch ribbon, blue or pink, buying enough for ties, also. Sew ribbon rosette in center of lace rosette, and sew on bonnet. THE MAGIC HANKY I'm just a little hanky, As square as square can be, But with a stitch or two They made a bonnet out of me. 290 "Quickie" Menu for the Homebound Oa. J. Cannon Member, General Board of Relief Society I love the term "Compassionate Service."" It means I can be of service to one who is in need. When someone is unable to get out of bed, I know she will enjoy my favorite "quickie" menu that is so simple to fix. HAM CASSEROLE 2 c. Diced ham 34, c. Water and condensed milk 4 oz. Cooked noodles combined 1 can mushroom soup 1 tsp. Onion 34 c. Nippy cheese Top with buttered crumbs. Bake for 30 minutes at 400°. Serves 6-8. ORANGE SHERBET SALAD 2 pkgs. Orange jello 1 11 oz. Can mandarin oranges 2 c. Boiling water (drained) 1 pt. Orange sherbet Pour jello into boiling water, then immediately stir sherbet in until melted. Pour into ring mold and chill until syrupy, then drop mandarin oranges into mold. TOPPING 11 oz. Can mandarin oranges 1 c. Commercial sour cream 11 oz. Can pineapple chunks 1 c. Miniature marshmallows 1 c. Flaked coconut Put into a bow! That will fit down in ring of ring mold and chill several hours. When the cassergle and the salad are ready for taking to your homebound friend, then you might tuck in a loaf of white bread for good measure. WHITE BREAD 1 qt. Lukewarm water 5 tbsp. Sugar 2 yeast cakes Let stand until yeast has dissolved, then add: 1% c. Soy oil (or other oil) 3 well-beaten eggs 1 rounding tbsp. Salt 14-16 c. Flour Add 4 c. Flour and beat thoroughly. Add remaining flour gradually, mixing to a dough that is stiff enough so it won't stick to hands. Knead lightly on floured surface and return to greased bowl. Let rise until double in bulk. Promptly punch down or knead about 2 minutes, or until dough is reduced to original bulk. Let rise until dough retains dent when pressed lightly. Mold into loaves. Handle dough lightly and quickly—overkneading or vigorous handling at this stage injures texture and toughens bread. Let rise until a slight touch leaves a dent. Bake in 350° oven for an hour. 292 = Homemaking Suggestions Jo Stock Marinate steak with part orange or lime juice. The crumbly topping for breakfast cake, made of flour, sugar, and butter, is better when the butter is browned. Gingerbread waffles are delicious. Use your favorite dark gingerbread recipe, plus an egg. Top with whipped cream. Chocolate waffles are very good—-your waffle recipe, plus one-third Cup cocoa and one-quarter cup shortening. Thin light-colored honey with lime juice and use for syrup. Store limes in freezer. Every bit of juice and pulp can be removed. Freeze a few whole tomatoes. Cut in chunks and add to stews or casseroles, just before serving.. Add black walnuts to pancakes, nasturtium leaves to salads, two teaspoons of Worcestershire sauce inside the bird after it is put on the barbecue spit— it keeps the fowl from drying out and adds a sparkle of flavor. Quick salad dressing: To each cup of vinegar add 6 tablespoons sugar, salt to taste, and freshly ground pepper. Heat to dissolve sugar. Chill and pour over bite-size chunks of tomatoes and cucumbers. Make a quart at a time. Add dill, if desired, boil a few minutes, and strain. CHERRY-RHUBARB PIE Judith Leigh-Kendall Temperature: 425 degrees Time: 35 to 45 minutes Makes one 9-inch pie Make pastry for a two-crust pie. Line pan. Mix together: 1 pt. Frozen sugar-packed rhubarb, thawed 1 no. 2 can tart red pie cherries ¥%, to 1 cup sugar 3 tbsp. Quick-cooking tapioca Pour into pastry-lined pie pan. Dot with 1 tbsp. Butter. Cover with top crust and cut slits in it. Bake until nicely browned and juice begins to bubble through slits in crust. Serve warm. At | fant F Viola Ashton Candland Spring crept quietly in this year, Unheralded, unseen, Until she spilled her color-rinse And stained the hillside green. 293 Page trom UDiarv oft ai 4 Ls. V/ Hous ewite — Roselyn Kirk © The conversation of a recent telephone call wandered about and centered finally on the virtue of being in a hypnotized state. The distraught young mother on the other end of the line exclaimed, 'Some days I'd like to stay hypnotized from dawn until dark!" I paused for a moment at the suddenness of the remark and was startled to find that my psyche was nodding vigorously in agreement. It had been one of those days for me, too! The cereal had overflowed the pan and had bubbled down into the dark, mysterious crevices of my outmoded electric stove while I mediated a dispute between the baby and my three-year-old. The cause of the disagreement was who would drink from the yellow cup. 294 { eal After breakfast — interrupted by the perilous predicaments of cartoonland's "Courageous Cat' — we had just time to scrape the egg from three little faces before the playmates arrived. Today our yard seemed particularly attractive. And each new arrival made a_ successful attempt to keep the others in a state of screaming frustration. The Indians plucked orange berries from my bushes to use as ammunition, while the cowboys bent the branches of my very young apple tree to camouflage their hideout. Ninety minutes and one broken tricycle later, I had managed to entice all but my three to seek entertainment in other innocent neighbors' yards. I had just settled my oldest with crayons and color book, had deposited my youngest in bed, and was critically appraising the shambles of my kitchen, when the telephone rang and the conversation took place as I have already reported it. As I placed the receiver -back in the cradle of the telephone, I wondered, Isn't it true that I do spend many of my days in a state of self hypnosis? I seem to have so cushioned myself that any unusual jar leaves me untouched. I don't think, or feel, or enjoy as I once did. Yesterday when Jeff stopped in his play and ran in to ask how the rain got up in the clouds, I shook my head and said, "Later, dear." My thinking process—infrequently used—has slowed down. And, besides, the encyclopedia is on the highest shelf of the bookcase and hard to reach. And the day before—when the children and I made our weekly pilgrimage to the bookmobile—I chose their books on the basis of the latest studies in children's literature. But for myself, I picked an entertainer's book instead of one by a serious writer. So I stopped right there by the telephone and looked about me. Through the window I could see that the leaves of our cherry tree had turned from green to dappled gold, and I hadn't even noticed before. It was then that I sat down at my kitchen table, with the dishes strewn about me, and looked over a mound of ironing to my prize bed of chrysanthemums. I had spent a_ week last spring carefully working out PAGE FROM THE DIARY OF A HOUSEWIFE a color combination of reds, bronzes, and yellows. Now all were blooming and I hadn't even paused to enjoy them. I stopped that morning and really saw the sway of the feathery heads as they nodded to the autumn breeze—proud of their burnished dresses of gold and red. I felt their beauty. The cocoon of unawareness—the haze of hurry and_ tension—opened— and I rushed forward to feel life. It was then that I knew I must tune in on the _ natural melody that is a part of each day. Now, sometimes, my vacuuming doesn't get done until afternoon, but I find time to sit beside my son on the grass while we watch a furry caterpillar creep carefully up the rough bark of our tree. And my dishes are often stacked in the sink as I—book in hand—linger with Thoreau in the golden days spent at Walden Pond. When a neighbor drops in to talk about her son Jimmy and how he stutters, I stop. As I listen, I find that I really do care about Jimmy. Together, we discuss the problem—though the iron is placed on the ironing board ready to go to work. But some days I forget and, for a moment, the washing is more important than taking the children to see the cement mixer at work up the block. Then I remember! And as I hold the small hands in mine and walk serenely through the bright day, I know that the hypnotic soulslumbering has passed, and that I'm moving with the pulse of my life. 295 m Have you ever thought about how much a home resembles a business enterprise? The success of a business depends a great deal upon how efficiently it is run from the management end. The labor forces can put in many long, hard hours of work, but if there is mismanagement in the office, the business can still collapse. The father of a family can work diligently at his job, but still not progress financially if his office manager is anything less than efficient in keeping up her end. The most vital way to insure financial stability is a budget, of course, with tithing as the first item. But there is still another way to help patch those ''small leaks that sink the mighty battleship." It is the Home Management File. An efficient business office not only files correspondence and re- 296 OFFICE FILING AT HOME Janet W. Breeze ceipts, it has what some executives call their future file. This file consists of good ideas and time savers clipped from trade publications, which may be adapted to future company needs. Many engineering dollars can be saved by consulting the future file before plunging into any new program or projects. Likewise, a home manager can save money by clipping and filing economical ways to improve her family situation, as well as keeping reminders that help her take care of the clothing, appliances, and equipment she already has. From the time I began my first home management file (long before I was married) until now, I have experimented with several ways of controlling it. At the age of twelve, I began cutting out helpful hints, recipes, and other items and pasting them in numerous scrapbooks. This later proved to be time-consuming, as EE - well as confusing, when I tried to find something. As a bride (having seen a similar office system), I devised my cereal box method of filing. Whenever a new oblong box of dry cereal came into the house, I took special care to open and remove one side rather than the top. When the box was empty, I painted it white and labeled the closed side in red. Each container was a division of my file, and when lined up inside my red and white kitchen cupboard, they resembled a set of books. This system worked marvelously well (and on a small scale is a nice gift idea) until our twosome began to expand, and the cupboard space was needed for bottles and baby food. Other systems were tried, but the most efficient and the one that came closest to having a real file cabinet atmosphere, was a cardboard box slightly wider and deeper than a Manila file folder. The box file was covered with colored contact paper and stored on the closet floor at the front, where it was easy to slide in and out. The small cost of manila folders from an_ office supplier was very nominal when compared with the end results. In filing, the important thing is not to file just for the joy of it; keeping it small makes it more efficient. In fact, when I originally tear an article out of a magazine it goes into a small drawer. Then, on a blustery day when everyone is confined indoors, I file the items collected in my drawer. After the items that catch my eye "cool off" awhile, I am surprised at how much can be weeded out. OFFICE FILING AT HOME Divisions of our own file at present are: Children: This includes articles on child behavior, play projects, news of recent books for children, or other items which might be considered for gift giving. Clothing: Washing instructions removed from new, ready-made clothing (write description of clothing article on tag), sewing articles clipped from magazines and newspapers, pictures of "'ready-mades" or some "designer" clothes I consider attempting for home sewing. Christmas: Ideas on_ everything, from tree trimming to candied nuts. There is so much to collect about Christmas. Family: Home Evening ideas, outings, and other events that we can enjoy as a family. Finances: Timely articles on better financial management, as well as receipts. (All important papers § are locked in a metal file box.) 'Gifts to Make: Ideas and patterns for gifts or bazaar items. Gospel: A special file of thoughts for talks. I keep my own special file of visual aids and teaching helps separate from this, and my husband keeps his even separate from mine. Guarantees and Instructions: All of those little papers that come with new appliances. Health and Physical Care: 'Shot' records, fitness articles, bed-patient helps, exercises, grooming information. Home Improvements: Inside and out —~- practical ideas for minor landscape changes or interior decoration. Housekeeping: Helpful hints and new methods for a more efficiently operated home. Meals and Nutrition: Menu plans (an efficient way to eliminate costly 297 APRIL 1965 impulse buying), untried recipes, special articles on outdoor cooking, special preparations. Preparedness: Food storage grams and disaster information. ProRecreation and Hobbies: Games, party plans, travel tips, new hobbies, and other leisure interests. Self-Improvement: The one folder that can be for just me alone. Mine contains things I want to do to improve myself in many ways. This is where I keep track of adult education classes, the titles of books I want to read or would like to buy, and helpful activities. Ir you let the family contribute to the file and become acquainted with the system, it can be a big help when you are absent or ill. No more, "But what shall we fix for dinner?" or "How do I wash this blouse?" They can probably get a pretty good idea from the file. Even our small children get involved in the file at our house. Each birthday they are given a new Manila folder with their name and age printed so they can read it. All Sunday School and Primary drawings (after a week of being taped to the side of the refrigerator where father can admire them at dinner), go into the child's current age folder. And when there is "nothing to do," the children draw or paint new pictures for their file. Few masterpieces ever see the inside of a wastebasket at our house. Setting up and keeping up a home management file need not be burdensome if kept within the proper dimensions of simplicity (things you know you will use, and not just wild daydreams). It can be a family fun project to give a really efficient boost to happier and more _ economical homemaking. Rocket Base Bernice Ames Peace broods here Where sand sprawls, tented with sage And purple verbena, Bobbing in the wind, like warriors on Indian ponies Rushes the ground swells. Quiet bulges till seams of light Split song from mockingbird throats. White primroses stare under wavers of wing Under scallops of jump as the grasshopper searches Every hillock and dry wash For a hidden fuse. Peace broods, A tall candle flower, Waiting to ripen, droops And petal by petal Plumes into dust. 298 Carrie Kemsley Walker and Sophronia Miller Petersen (left to right) are both active in work meetings in Lyman Ward, Lyman Stake, Wyoming. They have held these positions, as companions in Relief Society work, for twenty years. Sister Walker is famous for her braided rugs. She chooses colors and designs that make attractive rugs, and she sews the braids together so well that the rugs are long lasting and useful. Sister Petersen's specialty is quiltmaking— quilts made with unusual applique patterns—leaves, dolls, and flowers—and quilts made of unique block patterns in contrasting or harmonizing colors. When Sister Petersen is asked how many quilts she has made, she says, "Oh, at least 250—between that and 300.'"' In addition to their long and valued service to Relief Society, Sister Walker and Sister Petersen have made many rugs and quilts as gifts for their large families, and they have remembered the needy with gifts of rugs and quilts. These two companions say that they are ''just as close as needle and thread can make us—and that is close." 299 Chapter 7 he Turn of the Wheel Mabel Harmer Synopsis: Elsa Brienholt leaves her native Heidelberg for America, where she is sponsored by the family of Clay Knowlton, stationed in Germany with the United States Army. She finds employment in Salt Lake City for a few months, but when this comes to an end, she goes to Idaho to visit an uncle. After attending his small ward she decides that she should return and help build up the Church in her homeland. She goes to work for the Dawson family, in order to save money for the trip. ® At the end of May, Mrs. Dawson decided that she was well enough to get along without household help, and Elsa _returned to her uncle's home. She was not sorry to be through for, although the work had grown lighter all the time, it had never become what she or anyone else could call exactly easy. She had, ~ however, been able to save almost all of her money and now had just a trifle under four hundred dollars. 300 It was good to be back on the farm again, now that summer had come. The fresh, young green of the fields was enchanting, especially when framed in the distance by mountains that still showed a crown of snow. One day Uncle Frederick came in and said, "I have a couple of propositions to offer you. I'll give you the best one first." "I'm all ears," said Elsa, "although I believe it is usual to save the best to the last." "What is best here is all a matter of opinion. And, in my opinion, the first is the best. If you think so, we won't even discuss the second." "And leave me in curiosity the rest of my life? Hardly. Let's hear everything." "Albert—our dentist son in Boise, has an opening for a dental assistant. He would be glad to have you come up and take over. He would train you and pay you a good salary while you are learning. Of course, he would expect you to stay a reasonable length of time. Until you got married, I suppose." "That might be a very long time, indeed," she replied. "And he is very generous. Now, what is the other?" "There is a chartered plane leaving Salt Lake City in a month. The passengers will all be German-speaking people, going back for a tour. Brother Schumann wrote to ask if Edith and I would be interested in joining them. The fare is only three hundred and fifty dollars." "And there would be room for me?" asked Elsa, her eyes sparkling. "There would be room for all of us, if we make reservations at once."' She jumped up and threw her arms around his neck. "Oh, how wonderful! You will go, of course." "Well, now, we might. It has been over forty years since we left the old country. Maybe we are about due for a return visit." "Then make my reservation at once, along with yours. You will have to work fast to get your shots and passports and_ all. THE TURN OF THE WHEEL Mother will be so happy! How long will you stay? What will you do about the farm?" "One question at a_ time, please. I can hire someone to take care of the farm. Our neighbor's boy, who has been away at school, will be glad for the work on his vacation. About how long? I don't think that Mama could stay away from home for more than a couple of weeks, could you?" "Yes, I could," Edith answered drily. "In fact, you have been promising me this trip for the past twenty years, if you remember right. I'm going to make the most of it." "So you shall," Frederick agreed. 'So you shall." Esa decided that she would like to go back to Salt Lake for the last week or so before her return, if the girls could make room for her at the apartment. It was entirely possible that this would be the last chance she would ever have to visit in Utah. And she wanted to meet Clay again. She knew that, whatever her future might be, she would feel more satisfied and contented if she did so. Margery wrote that they would be delighted to have her as their guest. "I owe you a great deal," she said. "I am now engaged to marry Dr. Kirton, who took on with me when he left off with you. And no girl could be more ecstatically happy. I hope that you will find as much happiness when you make your choice." So my lonely Christmas turned out to have more than one silver lining, Elsa thought, grateful for her part in Margery's happiness. 301 APRIL 1965 The plane was scheduled to leave Salt Lake City on the 25th of June, and she arrived in the city one week before. She called the Knowltons soon after she came and recognized Clay's voice as soon as he answered the phone. "This is." "T know. The golden-haired Princess of the castle at Hirchshorn. When may I see you?" "Almost any time. I am here for a week. Then I am going back to Germany with my aunt and uncle." "You are? We'll see about that," he retorted. "I had orders to keep you here." "You did? From whom?" "T'll tell you all about it later. All the family is going up to Brighton on a picnic. Burt just now called out to say that he had promised you a summer outing up there to make up for the one he took you on last winter. We'll pick you up about four." Clay's banter and friendliness gave her a warm glow, as it always had. She was eager to meet him again, as well as the rest of the family. Just before she left, Elizabeth said, '""Now that you've provided for Margery with one of your ex-admirers, I'd like to be next in line for this one." "He isn't an ex yet," Margery reminded her. "T know. But I can hope, can't I? You needn't be so smug and satisfied just because you have yours." Her tone was _ serious, but her eyes twinkled. "I'm not," Margery said quickly. "Not in the least. And, believe me, I want nothing better for all of you than to find a good man." 302 WHEN the Knowltons called and picked her up Elsa was seated between Clay and Burt. They all seemed so happy to see her again that she felt she was almost one of the family, rather than a stranger from a strange land. She was amazed at the difference between Brighton in its summer garb and as she remembered it under four feet of snow. It was unlike anything she had ever seen before—with its rugged valley, where evergreen trees rose between huge boulders and a shimmering lake nestled in a green meadow—all surrounded by lofty mountain peaks. "You must try the ski lift again,' cried Burt. "Only this time we'll go all the way up and back down again." "We'll go all the way up," said Clay, taking Elsa's arm. "You run along and find your own playmates."' Elsa would just as soon have made it a threesome, but this was no time to argue. She flashed Burt a warm smile and went along with Clay. At the top of the lift they got off the chairs and walked up a narrow path until they came to a flat rock. Clay spread out his sweater for her to sit upon. "'Now, what's all this nonsense about going back to Germany?" he asked, as he sat down beside her. "'You're not really serious?" "Indeed I am," she _ replied. "We have been told for some years now by the Authorities that we should stay in our own countries and help to build up the Church there. Especially now that we have temples close by, there is no real need for coming to Utah. But I didn't realize how important it was until I went to my uncle's ward in Idaho. They were not exactly desperate for help, but many of the young people were away at school or on missions. I knew then that my place was back with my own people where every single member can do so much good. Of course I am sorry to leave my friends here." Clay took her hand. ''We could be. More than friends—if you would stay. You know that, don't you?" She withdrew her hand gently. "Perhaps," she smiled. "And I am very fond of you. But I must g0." "You could change your mind again, you know," he went on rather cheerfully. "'As far as I could see the branch was doing just great without you. Maybe you'll decide to come back here again." "Maybe," she agreed. 'We are still young. One never knows what the future may hold." "On the other hand, now that my military service is over, I shall probably be going on a mission. And, since I have a smattering of German, it could very well be over there. So, I may run into you again in Heidelberg." Elsa smiled, thinking of her first encounter with Clay when he had indeed "run into her" and broken the expensive figurine she was carrying. He stood up. "We must be getting down again. I can smell those hamburgers way up here." They rode the ski lift to the bottom and walked over to where the picnic table was set and the hamburgers were sizzling on the THE TURN OF THE WHEEL open grate. It was a delightful meal in the bracing canyon air, and, with such a congenial companion, Elsa was sure she would remember it forever. When they returned to the city she bade the Knowltons goodbye and thanked them for all their kindnesses to her. Burt offered to wager that she would be back within a year. And Mrs. Knowlton added, "If ever you do decide to return, our home is always open to you." "Thank you so much," Elsa replied shakily. '""Thank you for everything,' and fled into the house. It was only a trifle past midnight when her uncle and aunt called in a taxi to take her to the airport. When they arrived she was amazed to find Clay there to bid her goodbye She wished that he hadn't come. One goodbye had been hard enough. "It still isn't too late to change your mind and stay," he said. Elsa's only answer was a smile. She knew that he expected no other. The luggage was weighed. There were final handclasps and goodbyes from friends and relatives. Some few, like herself, were leaving without any expectations of returning again. Just before the plane started down the runway, she waved a final goodbye to Clay from her window. He was soon lost from sight. When they circled above the valley she caught a glimpse of the golden angel on-the tallest spire of the temple, glorious in the glow of the floodlights. She 303 APRIL 1965 remembered that her first look in the city had been of this same angel and she was glad. It seemed a fitting finale to her sojourn in Zion. As they flew eastward over the Rocky Mountains, Elsa studied the people aboard. There was considerable contrast. Some were gay, starting out on a holiday for which they had probably worked many, many years. Others were sad and even tense. Just in front of her sat a couple with hands clasped, saying nothing to each other or to any of their fellow passengers. She wondered what lay behind their trip—if there were bitter memories of their homeland. She hoped that if there were, they would all be erased and the return trip would be a joyful one. There were two young women who had left Germany as brides and were returning with their children to get acquainted with their grandparents for the first time. Others were like Uncle Frederick and Aunt Edith, coming back home after a long absence for a joyous holiday. The flight was smooth and uneventful and they landed at Hamburg in the afternoon of that same day. "When I went to America," said Uncle Frederick, "it took me twice as many days as we have spent hours on this flight." Elsa smiled. "It took me as many days—by boat and by bus. I enjoyed every mile of it and am glad that I saw so much of America. But I am glad to come back this way—like a_ bird." Then she added to herself, "And am I glad to be back!" 304 THEY were to pick up a Volkswagon the next day, so they went to a hotel for the night. Before going to bed, they walked down one of the main streets of the city. It was thrilling to see the signs on the streets and shops in German again—more so for her uncle and aunt even than for Elsa. "T sailed from Hamburg when I left for America," said Frederick. "My, what a_ difference forty years has made! But some things are the same. Tomorrow we will go down to the harbor. That can't have changed very much." "No," agreed Elsa. "Probably not. And when you get to Heidelberg I think that you will find that much of it has not changed at all. Of course, there is the new section, but there is still the old, as it has been for more than a hundred years, the castle, the old bridge, and much of the University." "Ah, yes!" Uncle Frederick smiled. "It will be good to see old Heidelberg again."' "Well, I'm glad to hear you admit it," said Elsa. "So far all your praise has been for America and how fortunate you were to go and how much better off I should have been if I _ had stayed." "All of which I meant and still mean," he insisted. "I only said that it will be a pleasure _ to see my old home again." Early the next day they picked up the car and. Drove down to the harbor as they had planned. Elsa would have preferred starting at once for home, but Uncle Frederick was like a sailor returned at last to his own. He in- sisted that everything looked just the same. To be sure, the ships were a bit different—a bit larger, perhaps, and there were more of them. But the harbor! Yes. Indeed! It was exactly the same. "Now you see what you are in for," Elsa remarked laughingly to her aunt, "'you will have to go over every foot of Germany that he knew as a boy." "That will be all right," Aunt Edith smiled in reply. '"'He has worked and saved many years for this trip." "What if you become so entranced with Germany now that you will want to stay?' Elsa asked her uncle. "Oh, my, no!" he answered quickly. "That will never be. Think of all the grandchildren back in America." "Of course you are right," she agreed. "I was only teasing." WduHeEn he was quite satisfied, they left the city and started along the autobahn towards Heidelberg. It was a_ beautiful summer day and the scenery was enchanting on all sides. As they passed one dense bit of woods, Aunt Edith said, "Now I understand what they mean when they speak of the 'Black Forest.' It is because the trees are so thick it is hard for any sunlight to get through." At this point Uncle Frederick said, "This is a magnificent highway. That is why we are so late. I'm going off on a side road where I can see the villages and the old churches and the people working in the fields." Anxious as she was to get THE TURN OF THE WHEEL home, Elsa could not protest. As Aunt Edith had said, this was what he had worked for, for many years of his life. It was the fulfillment of everyone's dream to "come back home again,' no matter why or how the home had been left in the first place. Besides, it was less than a year's absence for Elsa, compared to more than half of his lifetime. She could afford to wait a few hours longer. It was late when they reached Heidelberg and drove up to the house. Her mother and Maria were waiting on the front porch, and Elsa rushed into their arms. They greeted Frederick and Edith with equal enthusiasm. "You have not eaten, I hope," said her mother. "Dinner will not be quite so good as it was three hours ago, but it is waiting for you." "Frederick couldn't wait to see all of Germany—or as much as possible,' Edith explained, "so we had to travel the byways and visit all the villages along the way. That is why we are so late." "That is good," nodded Sister Brienholt. "I am glad that he appreciates his homeland. A late meal does not matter half so much." They went in and sat down at the table. "Karl would have been here," said her mother to Elsa, "but he thought he ought not to intrude upon the family the first night of your return." "He was quite right," said Elsa. Was she glad that he had not wanted to greet her at once? She could not be entirely sure. (To be concluded) 305 FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Activities All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents or mission Relief Society presidents or supervisors, and should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. See regulations governing the submittal of Notes From the Field in the November 1964 issue of the Magazine, page 847. North British Mission, St. Helens Branch Singing Mothers Present Music at Liverpool District Conference May 11, 1964 Winnifred Stevens, President, Liverpool District Relief Society, is seated third from the right in the front row; chorister Gladys M. Fullwood stands at the left (wearing a necklace); Ruth B. Green, President, North British Mission Relief Society, is seated fourth from the left on the second row; First Counselor Elizabeth McCormack, fourth from the left on the front row; Second Counselor Kathleen Taylor, second from the left, front row; Josie B. Bay, of the General Board of Relief Society, is seated second from the right in the second row. Jear W. Jaussi, Supervisor, North British Mission Relief Society, reports that Sister Bay met with the Liverpool District Relief Society in the Wigan chapel on May 11, 1964, at which time the Singing Mothers of St. Helens Branch presented the music. 306 NOTES FROM THE FIELD Olympus Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Conducts Outstanding Nursery Program Standing at the back: Jane F. Buckmiller, cub scout den mother; Verna Lue C. Gledhill, Counselor, Olympus Stake Relief Society. | safe, and delightful. There were sufficient to present Some of the toys to the stake Relief Society also. 307 APRIL 1965 West German Mission, Heidelberg and Frankfurt Servicemen's Relief Societies Hold Bazaars Edith M. McIntire, Supervisor, West German Mission Relief Society, reports: "The eleven Relief Societies of the Servicemen's District of the West German Mission should be commended for the outstanding Relief Society work they do. The program continues to move forward successfully in spite of small enroliment, great distances, and frequent rotation of members. The love and devotion with which these American sisters respond to their callings add to the spirit of Relief Society work among our German sisters." Upper picture: Heidelberg Branch, left to right: Julia Christensen, Education Counselor; Verna Evans, President; Barbara Scherz, Work Counselor. Sister Evans reports that the sisters "doing double duty as: army wives and Relief Society workers, did a tremendous job to make the November 1964 'Bountiful Harvest' bazaar a huge success. The untiring hours and efforts of sixteen sisters netted the organization $250." Lower picture: Frankfurt Branch, left to right: Twylla Flanders and Nikki Viio (a Finnish-born sister) in charge of the Finnish booth at the bazaar with the theme "Far Away Places," in October 1964. Thelda G. Haines, President, Frankfurt. Branch, reports: "The chapel we share with the German saints has three levels. The main floor houses the chapel, where the Primary children presented a program that carried out our theme. Some classes presented a German song and skit, some sang an American song, and one class modeled clothing from many countries. After the program, a Mexican chili dinner was served by serape-clad girls in the basement. Upstairs in the cultural hall one could visit faraway places. Each booth represented a country and was decorated in the colors of the national flag. Finland had children's clothing and toys; Turkey had baked goods; France had dress patterns; Holland was for aprons; Switzerland sold candy; America sold quilts; Belgium had linens; and Germany was represented with Christmas items. Our bean bag toss was from Ireland, and Denmark had a dart game. Our fish pond was American, too." Janet Trowbridge, Work Counselor, was chairman of the bazaar, and Virginia Fenton, work meeting leader, was in charge of the work. Materials to make the items came from Germany and the United States. Kansas City Stake (Kansas) Singing Mothers Present Music for Officers Meeting, Relief Society Annual General Conference September 30, 1964 Chorister Joyce Sanders stands at the left (in black dress); Marjorie M. Reeve, President, second from the left in the front row. Josephine H. McCall, organist, was absent. Sister Reeve reports: "The Kansas City Stake Singing Mothers presented the singing for the opening session of Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1964. Many projects were sponsored by each ward and branch, making it possible for these sisters to leave their families and experience a week of beautiful sisterhood. Over one hundred went to the temple. Tours were planned ahead of time for all to participate. The stake gave an opening social on the train, with ten wards and branches each putting on a skit. Refreshments of candy, cookies, and punch were served to 187. Many laughed when we boarded the train with our boxes of goodies. Ice for the punch was put on for us in Wyoming. This picture was taken at a practice in August, when fifty-five of 189 were on vacations." 308 APRIL 1965 Craig Stake (Colorado) Style Show and Displays at Work Leadership Meeting December 1964 Left to right: Artel Podbevset, Secretary-Treasurer; Rachel Palmer, President. At the right: Delores Hitchens, Second Counselor; children seated in front: Rebecca Lee Adams and Jeff Dunn; model: Donna Wardell. Sister Palmer reports that the work meeting displays at leadership meeting in December were varied and beautiful. The applique and patchwork quilts were especially outstanding. A crocheted tablecloth and a colorful afghan were much admired, and the artificial flower arrangements, handmade figurines and wall plaques, aprons, and paintings added to the variety and interest of the exhibits. Many suggestions for Christmas gifts delighted the Relief Society sisters and everyone appreciated the artistic arrangement of the displays. East Sharon Stake (Utah), Edgemont First Ward Presidencies Honored at Social January 5, 1965 Front row, seated, left to right: Eva G. Gillespie; Margaret G. Pulsipher; Matilda E. Booth; Racheal H. Meecham; Jo Ella Baum Smith; Bernice L. Faulkner; Pearl P. Stubbs. Back row, standing, left to right: Olive J. Gillespie; Montess E. Hawkins; Elizabeth G. Ferguson; Connie A. Tucker; Ida P. Stubbs; Inez A. Messick; Thelma H. Sampson, present President. Sarah M. Grow, President, East Sharon Stake Relief Society, reports: "At a Relief Society social held in the newly dedicated Edgemont First and Fourth Ward chapel, all of the presidencies since the original organization of the Edgemont First Ward on April 11, 1926, were represented and duly honored. During the program the accomplishments and highlights of each presidency were related, such as fund-raising projects, contributions to the building of chapels, bazaars, and assistance to those in need." Columbus Stake (Ohio), Bellefontaine Branch Visiting Teachers Achieve One Hundred Per Cent Visiting Teaching for One and One Half Years December 5, 1964 Left to right: M. Jean Burton, Second Counselor; Virginia Y. Dowdy; Augusta M. Cramer; Ethel I. Hutchinson; Glendora M. Elliott, President; Louise L. Young; Kathryn E. McIntyre, Secretary-Treasurer. Agnes C. Fisher and Jeanne Nederbrock were not present when this picture was taken. Farel Rush, President, Columbus Stake Relief Society, reports: "At our December 5, 1964 leadership meeting, these sisters were honored for the outstanding achievement of one hundred per cent visiting teaching for the past year and a half. This dependent branch has consistently been an example to all our other twelve Relief Societies. Bellefontaine Branch is scattered over a large radius, having members in many small surrounding towns. We are truly grateful to these faithful visiting teachers for their 'person to person way of teaching,' which is Christ's way of teaching, so beautifully presented at our last Annual General Conference by Sister Anna B. Hart. Bellefontaine was organized into an independent branch the following day, December 6, 1964. Sister Olive A. Haas, now released, was instrumental for the visiting teaching program in Bellefontaine being carried out in the proper manner. In the first months she sometimes covered the whole area as companion to two or three other sisters. Sister Louise L. Young, formerly of Kauai, Hawaii, is the wife of the branch president, and through her lovely leadership, has often inspired these sisters." 310 Potomac Stake (Virginia), Capitol Hill Ward Bazaar November 13, 1964 Eula Mae Gardineer, stands in the "Southwest Curio Shop," with Virginia Gardineer, Laura Gardineer, and Nancy Kerr. Avalon C. Bigelow, President, Potomac Stake Relief Society, reports: "All geographic areas, from the rock-bound New England coast to verdant Hawaii, provided merchandise and food for 'Regional United States of America' at the bazaar and dinner held by the Capitol Hill Ward of Potomac Stake. All ages of Relief Society participated—from twenty-year-old Diane Cherry to eighty-nine-year-old Kate Isbell, who baked bread for the event. "The East Coast had a country store, typical of those still in existence in the small rural villages which dot the eastern seaboard. Handicraft in the Southwest Curio Shop was displayed against a background of Indian articles, and this motif was repeated in such articles as ponchos and painted dish towels. Articles from the Far West were displayed within the weatherbeaten walls of a trading post. Representing Hawaii, merchandise was sold from a fish net draped table, with a background of lovely green. A large variety of rag dolls was displayed by the Rocky Mountaineers in their shotgun protected general store. Lipstick blotters and doll rockers made by the Southerners were sold from a booth labeled 'Christmas Is Coming.' The Midwest had a grab bag of articles suitable for children, in addition to seed pictures and other items sold from among the tall corn. Merchandise ranged from Boston baked beans to original oil paintings, and was enticing to the eyes and the palates of all ages. "The presidency feels that the use of multiple chairmen created greater participation and afforded many sisters an opportunity to exhibit hidden talents. By working together for the common goal of providing a delicious dinner and a colorful bazaar, the whole group has increased in appreciation and love, one for another, as individuals." 312 WORK MEETING — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Lesson 6 — ".. Alberta H. Christensen. The Worth of Souls Is Great...." (A Course to Be Studied at Work Meeting, January Through September 1965) For Second Meeting, June 1965 Objective: To emphasize the divine gift of individuality and the role of the mother in assisting the children to develop their individual abilities. INTRODUCTION The importance of the individual (spirit plus body) is beyond human estimate. Nothing in the world is more significant. The Heavenly Father implied as much when he said that his work and his glory were to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man. Specific latter-day scripture also impresses us with the worth of each individual. Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God (D&C 18:10). All who believe in the divine origin and destiny of man know that this is true. They know (although they often do not give evidence that they know), that position, money, clothes, cars, beautiful homes, all pale into insignificance when compared with the value of the human soul. Parents who sense the importance of each individual realize they have the responsibility to be as wise in their guidance of children placed in their care for a few, brief years, as is possible. This lesson discusses this responsibility and suggests some guidance practices. EACH INDIVIDUAL IS PRECIOUS In spite of certain characteristics which all human beings have in common, every person is different from every other person. No two individuals are identical, few are really very closely alike. This is inevitable and as it should be. It makes life interesting, enjoyable, and challenging. Although every mother knows that each of her children is distinct in personality, she may not honor the divine right and free agency of the individual and, therefore, may tend to exercise unrighteous jurisdiction over her 313 APRIL 1965 children. Often, parents try to make their children into replicas of themselves, and mothers, especially, may seek fulfillment of their own unfulfilled desires and ambitions by insisting that the daughters specialize in some particular field of accomplishment. Such practice is not considering the child as a distinct personality, entitled to that guidance which will help him discover his own abilities and ultimately to reach his own potential. DISCOVERING THE INHERENT ABILITY 1. How may the mother assist her child to discover his own inherent abilities? 2. Is it an indication of special aptitude for a child to show at an early age, a particular interest in the following: music, art, insects, mechanical devices, creative writing? 3. How may the mother avoid pressuring her child into an accomplishment of her own choosing? 4. How practical is it for a mother whose children are grown, to "activate" her own undeveloped talents? The above questions are pertinent to the priceless gift of individuality. Discuss, giving illustrations. IN THE FIELD OF GUIDANCE Specialists in the field of child guidance remind us that each child in the home must feel that he is being treated fairly, must feel that his parents really love him and want to understand his particular problems. When a teenage daughter says, ''Mother, you simply don't understand," what will the wise mother say? What will she do? Is it fair to compare one child disparagingly with another in the following manner? 314 Mother: "Your older sister Ruth always practiced her piano lesson, why don't you? You're simply lazy." Will the foregoing comparison endear her to her sister Ruth? Mother: "Your brother Richard always got an A in algebra. Why can't you get better than a C?" In addition to being an unwise practice, might this comparison be unjust, due to a difference in ability? Mother: "Your little friend keeps her room clean and tidy. You are dreadfully untidy and careless." Could it be that the "little friend's' mother motivates her child more wisely? What type of comparison is justifiable? (Suggestion: Individual progress in line with one's own ability.) "REPROVING BETIMES" Often the violation of gospel virtues is the result of not having been taught the correct principles. It is also true that children, for one reason or another, some- _ times ignore or violate principles which they have been taught, and the mother is faced with the problem of how to correct her child. How shall she help him to understand that his behavior does himself harm and may be hurtful to others, that it is rude or selfish? How may she do this and still have him know that she loves him and that a particular behavior only needs to be changed; that she is still his "friend"? Consider the following comment: Girl: "I don't think my mother loves me much. If she did she wouldn't get so angry with me." Does this statement indicate 1. Poor communication between mother and daughter? 2. Mother's lack of _ self-control when giving reproof? In the following scripture the Lord has given counsel on the matter of correction which should be helpful to the Latter-day Saint mother: Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death (D&C 121:43-44). "Reproving betimes with sharpness" suggests an important element in the matter of correction. What may, often, be the motive of many mothers for reproof? As you consider the following situations, analyze how you feel about each. Do they make you feel angry, irritated, disgusted, disappointed, or feel helpless? 1. An older boy teasing his younger brother, even hitting him, so that the younger one comes to you crying. 2. Boy, fourteen, calling his sister "dumb and stupid" because she does not open the door quickly. 3. Two daughters fighting over whose turn it is to clean their room or over a mutually owned article. 4. A boy being '"'sassy"' and calling, "I won't do it, no matter what you say." 5. The small child whimpering over every little hurt. 6. The child who blames everyone else for his own little problems. 7. The boy who eats the refrigerated dessert which you have prepared for dinner. How would you handle each? Discuss. LESSON DEPARTMENT JUSTICE AND MERCY A mother is continually faced with the problem of mercy and justice. How may she be just in punishment and also merciful? To achieve a proper balance between these two great gospel principles requires wisdom upon the part of the mother and often prompts her earnest prayer for divine guidance. It may be helpful to the mother to realize that sometimes the punishment is already equal to the violation. Listen to these meaningful, although somewhat facetious words of this very, very young child: I wish she would not, scolding, say, "I told you so, just watch where you are going first—"' That only makes the hurting WORSE And already on my bump There is a great big swelling lump! And consider this not uncommon incident: Kathy, age eight, investigating the contents of the china cupboard (against a well-known admonition of the mother), dropped and broke an heirloom piece of porcelain. Family members present, including the father, waited apprehensively, knowing how much the mother valued this particular piece. Kathy also waited, breathlessly, tears filling her eyes. The mother waited a moment also. Then she said, kindly, "Kathy, I know you didn't mean to do that. Come, Ill help you clean it up. Try to remember, next time, what mother has said about the dishes in that cupboard." Kathy had violated a_ wellknown family rule. Justice called for some reproof. Did her own remorse, and the recognition of the violation before all family members, justify the kind and 315 APRIL 1965 merciful response of this mother? What would you have done? ACCORDING TO THE LORD'S WAY No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile (D&C 121:41-42). Although this modern scripture has definite reference to bearers of the Priesthood, surely it has application for all who would influence or would reprove others according to the Lord's way. A Latter-day Saint mother may do well to consider this list of attributes as she attempts to influence her children for good. And as she reproves for error, surely gentleness, kindness, patience, and love unfeigned, rather than threat or coercion are qualities which will bring both mother and child to a happy relationship and will lead both to personal growth. "|.. COMMANDMENT IS A LAMP" For the commandment is a lamp; and the law is light; and reproofs of instruction are the way of life (Proverbs 6:23). If parents were perfect, the problem of parental guidance and of reproving error might be less complex; but parents are not perfect. In fact, the chief difference between being the parent and being the child is that the parent has had a few more years of experience. This experience is supposed to have given the parent wisdom, good judgment, and some of the disciplines of life. 316 And this is often the case. Yet, it is a sobering and humbling thought for parents to know that they, too, have much to learn and are also in need of reproof. Realistic adults are aware of the fact that they are constantly being chastened by their own mistakes. Should this awareness make parents more understanding of their children? What is the difference in being tolerant and _understanding, and in being permissive? Indulgent? (Read the address by President E. Nathan Tanner, The Relief Society Magazine, December 1964, pages 884-894.) In order to give wise guidance to their children, parents, themselves, often need to change both attitudes and habits. They can change their attitudes and their ways, even though they are no longer young. Recall the dramatic conversion of Paul on the road to Damascus, his change of attitude, his change of performance. Were it not possible to change, why have adult (now called "continuing') education? Why have the law of repentance? How could there be eternal progression? Actually, we are constantly in the process of change, it is hoped, for the better. What is your reaction to a mother telling her daughter, to whom she has just given corrective advice, that she, too, is trying to overcome a_ particular habit? What will this do to their mother-daughter relationship? Since the important responsibility of teaching the principles of righteous living has been given to parents, a child is entitled to be taught these principles. If and when he violates any of them, he is entitled to that type of correction which will not destroy his self-respect or make him feel that he is a rejected person. Might not each child be taught that a commandment given by our Heavenly Father and those given by parents who love him, are as a lamp, to guide him in ways of behavior that will bring him happiness and satisfaction; that correction is merely to keep him in the path where the light of that lamp may continue to guide his steps? FOR DISCUSSION: Make full use of the questions as they appear in the lesson. FOR HOME DOING: In the light of this lesson discussion, change your attitude and method of reproof in several situations. Write down the results, for your own personal progress in bettering family relationships. Begin now to correct some character trait in yourself which you feel needs correction. First Grandchild Vesta N. Fairbairn What do you treasure, What do you hide, With secret pleasure Fold inside Your baby hand? A wisp of a dream From lotus-land, A bright sunbeam, Or a bit of fluff Is enough. LESSON DEPARTMENT Dialogue Margery S. Stewart Little Soldier! Little Soldier! How is it with thee? Not well, Lord... Not well at all! How goes it in battle? Not well, Lord. Not well at all. Hast thou no helmet? None, Lord. Hast thou no shield? None, Lord. Hast thou no sword? Lost in the battle No other. Dost thou remember the young David? Yes, Lord. What had he for weapon? A sling and a stone, Lord, A sling and a stone. Little soldier... Little soldier Have | not then... A stone for thee? | have found MAY DAY HAWAIIAN TOUR 15 Wonderful Days Including Four Islands and Lei Day Celebrations April 24 — May 9 * * HAWAIIAN SUMMER PARADISE TOUR 15 Days * * HILL CUMORAH June 26 — July 11 There will be a 16 day, 24 day, 27 day, and 29 day tour arranged One of these tours will include Black Hills Passion Play Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 317 AUTUMN TOURS TO EUROPE HAWAIIAN TOURS April, May, June, October, November 1965 WORLD'S FAIR April Is Eva Willes Wangsgaard and April is a happy boy L. D. S. PAGEANT TOURS With a sweet young voice 16 day tour July 17—Aug. 7 Running little trills of joy 22 day tour July 24—Aug. 14 Practicing from choice. Two 29 day tours July 11—Aug. 8 ay;; and July 24—Aug. 21 April is a growing girl Wreathed in daffodils Dancing as the buds unfurl, Augus™V709 Switching primrose frills. WORLD'S FAIR Apribis a eee NEW ENGLAND Pr IS 2 WHERE Seaane and CANADIAN FALL TOUR Of gold and azure feather, Small determined feet that cling September 16, 1965 — To faith in rainy weather. Margaret Lund Tours aprillis a ristinenel 3021 South 23d East Of color, sound, and sun, P. O. Box 2065 Thirty holidays come forth Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 To celebrate as one. 485-2444 — 262-2337 318 Remembering Celestia J. Taylor | walked along the water's edge, And everywhere upon the sand lay glistening stones Like scattered jewels upon a silken spread. Here and there, where hurried eddies swept the sand, Were left deep frosted swirls of rich burnt brown. My feet were bare; the chocolate mud oozed round my toes, And velvet coolness bathed them as they sank. | stooped and gathered, till my hands could hold no more, The colored gems. "These | will take and put inside my house, And when | look upon them, | will see again this place Of sand and sun and jeweled stones Upon a pebbled shore." But when | took the stones away from sun and sand and laving wave And put them in a silver dish or copper bowl, Or even when | set them in a place apart, | saw, not glistening jewels, but pallid rocks Like those which lay outside my door. Next time | walk along the pebbled water's edge, ll leave the stones, but I will take remembering. YOU CAN ORGANIZE YOUR OWN GROUP TOURS The New and Inexpensive Way to Travel Anywhere. Name: MURDOCK Address: ___. TRAVEL yuu BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.55 Zone 6.90 Zone 3.60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4 65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5.80 | On PESERET [REws PRESS 1. This is an ideal program for social organizations, student groups, business groups, family organizations, religious groups, special interest groups, etc! 2. You organize your group... Murdock experts will do your planning! 3. You pick the country or place your group wants to see... Murdock Travel will show you how easy and inexpensive it is to get there! 4. You can take your own group or Murdock Travel wil! Provide a guide for you! 5. You can assure your group of travel on the highest quality carriers (bus, rail, or air) and accommodations in the finest hotels! Send for full particulars now: Murdock Travel, Inc., 14 South Main Street Salt Lake City — Phone: 328-3161 Coeoeeeaeeseeeeeeeeeaeeeseeeseeeeoeeoeseevneeeeeveeeeoeeeeaeee @eeeeaeeoevaeneoee08e8e8@ Salt Lake City's Newest Handicraft Shop UTAR CRAFT & NOVELTY We now have a much larger shop to serve you better! ¥% Complete line of materials for plastic grapes, feather flowers, ribbon flowers, satin fruit & many others. Write for new catalog. 50c Free Instructions also available UTAH CRAFT & NOVELTY CO. New Address 3220 So. State, Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 319 Mrs. Elizabeth Jane Russell Day Hunter, Utah Mrs. Sarah Elizabeth Wilson Young Sanford, Colorado Mrs. Sarah E. Burton Foulger Ogden, Utah Mrs. Hattie Rushnell Foster Belleville, Ontario, Canada 97 ei Mis Middleton Jensen 95 Mrs. Florence Dix Purdy Ogden, Utah Mrs. Mary Lou Farr Driver San Diego, California Mrs. Maggie Rightenour Hope Hamilton, Montana Mrs. Elizabeth H. Slade Carroll Mancos, Colorado Mrs. Julia Florence Miller Truth or Consequences, New Mexico Mrs. Sarah Jones Harman Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Florence Oyler Blackburn Loa, Utah Mrs. Mary Hickarson Wadley Pleasant Grove, Utah Mrs. Lois Ann Stevens Tanner Brady Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Rachel Thomas Peterson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Clara Eddy Martin Menana, Idaho Mrs. Mary Ellen Wilkinson Bradbury Bell Gardens, California Mrs. Mary Peck Brockbank North Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Roseltha Douglas Revor Ogden, Utah Mrs. Minnie Hegsted Taylor Salt Lake City, Utah 92 320 Mrs. Esther Openshaw Brimhall Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Mary Ettie Farrer Whitehead Provo, Utah Mrs. Lena Bagwell Dotson Yucaipa, California Mrs. Lucy Maude Bliss Walch Bakersfield, California Mrs. Leah Dunford Widtsoe Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Frances Whitlock Payne Chickasha, Oklahoma Mrs. Maria Elizabeth Christensen Brothers Sanford, Colorado Mrs. Susie Knapp Campbell Sait Lake City, Utah Mrs. Carolyn Erickson Palmer Portiand, Oregon Mrs. Rosa Pfisterer Larsen Ogden, Utah Mrs. Ada Sylvester Snyder Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lina Lehmann Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ellen Brickmore Larsen Preston, Idaho Mrs. Maggie McPhie Stevenson Riverton, Utah Mrs. Cynthia Ann Keele Larsen Arcadia, Utah Mrs. Carrie Roberts Passey St. Charles, Idaho Mrs. Alice Lucas Fenstermaker Millard Burley, Idaho Deg er ex Bool, Prog Onis Two New Books That Will Add Depth To Your U nderstanding And Appreciation Of The Scriptures Of The Doctrine And Covenants And The Ordinance Of The Sacrament. Both are invaluable reference works, enjoyably and informatively written. No. ] is THE SACRAMENT OF THE LORD'S SUPPER by Alan P. Johnson, price $2.75. The author of the LDS best seller The SACRAMENT of the "Fasting, Second Step To Eternal Life" has produced another J LORDS °t™ee equally uplifting volume — gq carefully researched and scripturally authenticated analysis of the LDS ordinance of the Sacrament. No. 2 is LATTER-DAY PROPHETS AND THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS, Volume IV, by Roy W. Doxey, price $4.25. The fourth and final volume of Professor Doxey's great definitive work on the content and meaning of the Doctrine and Covenants. With the words of inspired leaders of the Church as instructive comment on the various passages, the author reveals for us the nature, purpose, and value of this unique work of latter-day Scripture. (hi | Deseret Bo COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN' ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Send book No. 1 ( ), No. 2 { 2p Enclosed is $.0.0 000.00ccccccccccccoee.. As Payment, by check ( ), by money order (_ ), or please bill me, | have an account. Woe e mew ew ener wen ecnsewewoccnwnecccccnemaccccccesconcccoece Use coupon or write direct. Residents of Utah Please include 3%2% sales fax. R. S. April, 1965, SEE SSR CRE BEGR Qo — 3:; Y = 7 f Py rs Second Class Postage Paid at Sa p ity Itab "Let's see now, do we have everybody?" Like the classic story of the tourist family who left one of their children back at the service station, many families overlook younger family members in their insurance programs. It's a good idea to have your Beneficial man help you make sure that you have everybody covered. CRC OOS SSE ECHECHEESEH SEE OHSS ESHEHEESHOHOOHESEEEHHSHHEESESESESSOHOOS BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY Beneficial Life Building Dept RS 65, Salt Lake City, Utoh (_] Please mail more information about your Family Benefactor Plan. (J Please have your local Beneficial Life agent call. Name ---2. Cceccce se ce ee eee eee eae Street or RFD 2 cee Telephone City 200.. State Zip Code One sure way is with a Beneficial Family Benefactor Plan One low-cost policy not only provides life insurance for Mom and Dad and every child in your family now, but allows for future additions at no increase in premiums. It's the ideal plan for the young family. Valuable conversion features make it easy for your children to acquire more life insurance when they get older. Is this "family package" the plan for you? For more information, mail coupon below, or call your local Beneficial Life agent. BENEFICIAL LIFE Srsctaner Company Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah 