a Relief SOCISTY Magazine Volume 52 Number 8 August 1965 Lessons for November . A = = | The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: lilustrations: Stmmet Aff toenoon Christie Lund Coles We were alone. Summer stitched the still, Taffeta afternoon; And crickets embroidered The blue-green silk. Needle-point shadows Filled the waiting squares; Gulls picked out The mistaken threads. Geese cross-stitched the sky. We were alone. Softly sewn Into this tapestry Which, somehow, bore Our laughing signature. Mount Hood and Lost Lake, Oregon Transparency by Josef Muench Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Boulder Mountain, Utah, Photograph by Willard Luce Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 561 The Magazine brings me great comfort and peace of mind. | have typed the editorial 'Sufficient Unto the Day" (April 1965, by Marianne C. Sharp) and pasted it where | cannot fail to see and heed its excellent counsel. Most of the editorials and articles seem to be written just for me. What a blessing to be reminded of the right way in these days when so many media try to lead one astray. Wilma Jeanne Reckling Glenview, Illinois | always enjoy The Relief Society Magazine, and the June issue is no exception. How | enjoyed the article by Sister Fox ''Thoughts of a Mother During a Family Home Evening."' | have six, oh, so dear, and, oh, so different children, and home evening is indeed a time of inner prayer for me. Olga Milius Salt Lake City, Utah The March issue of the Magazine was wonderful, and we were delighted to see our own Lake District featured on the cover, and the lovely colored pictures of English scenes within. Vera R. Holden Stockport, Cheshire England My husband and |! Read the article "'Latter-day Saint Trails Along the River Ribble in Northern England,' by Claire W. Noall (March 1965) with great interest. Evidently, Sister Noall had studied much about the history of the Church in England. John and Helen Clegg Provo, Utah I fully enjoyed the recent article ''Latterday Saint Trails Along the River Ribble in Northern England," by Claire W. Noall, as well as the accompanying pictures of the beautiful landscape. Isaura B. Abegg Orem, Utah | appreciated ''Wind Valley,"' the first prize poem by Lenora Hansen in the January issue of the Magazine, because even though Amarillo is on the high plains instead of in a valley, the "always, everlasting wind'' blows here constantly. And for those of us with children, the poem "'Progeny'' (second prize poem by Pearle M. Olsen) couldn't help but make an impression. This poem was read by one of the sisters at our recent Relief Society birthday banquet. But even though | found the poems in January 1964 on the whole more readable, | must go back to 1963 for my favorite—''Quo Vadis," by Margery S. Stewart. Since this was a third place winner, my judgment evidently doesn't stand up with that of the experts, but the imagery of this poem was such that in reading it | could not escape a powerful emotion. Elien Gross Amarillo, Texas "'Grandson,"' the poem in the February Relief Society Magazine, composed by Christie Lund Coles, speaks the very thoughts for me. Both my daughter (the loving mother of my grandson) and | enjoyed the tender descriptive words of this excellent poem. Christie Lund Coles is a great writer. We appreciate her talent and wish to thank her. Dana S. Benson Malad City, Idaho May | just send my appreciation for The Relief Society Magazine. My sister and | always read the beautiful poetry first, then the lessons, and so on. Then we pass the Magazine on to our friends, sometimes the Magazines go around the world from us. As | write, there is a snow blizzard outside, so | thank God for my little home, a fire, and now the January Relief Society Magazine. Mrs. A. Welleycose and Mrs. M. Allott Sheffield, England the Relief Society Magazine NEE Ee 

Volume 52 Number 8 August 1965 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 564 Lord, Increase Our Faith Bruce R. McConkie 569 Companionship of Couples Through the Family Home Evening Lila Walch 578 The Uninvited Guest — Mr. Germ Utah State Board of Health 580 lLet's Speak Correctly Myrtle E. Henderson Fiction 572 Letitia Keeps in Touch Dorothy Clapp Robinson 599 Ring Around Her Heart — Chapter 4 Shirley Thulin General Features 562 From Near and Far 583 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 584 Editorial: Self-Reliance Louise W. Madsen 586 Notes to the Field: The Relief Society Annual General Conference 604 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 640 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 588 Home Again Fae Paulsen Thomas 592 A Family Blackboard Celia Larsen Luce 594 Quantity Cooking for Relief Society Functions — Part I — Rosa Shurtz 597 Caster Cups for Many Uses Jean Crosse Hansen 598 Jennette T. Chamberlain Makes Plain and Fancy Quilts Lessons for November 611 Theology — The Earth and Man Roy W. Doxey 618 Visiting Teacher Message — "Pray Always, That Ye May Not Faint" Christine H. Robinson 620 Work Meeting — The Happiness That Comes From Work Winnifred C. Jardine 622 Social Science [for October] — The Dignity and Worth of Work and of Play Alberta H. Christensen 628 Social Science — Learning to Choose Wisely Alberta H. Christensen 633 Literature — Good versus Evil — Part II Robert K. Thomas Poetry 561 Summer Afternoon — Christie Lund Coles Farewell to a Son, by Margery S. Stewart, 568; To a New Chapel, by Maureen Davies, 571; The Mountain's Gift, by Enola Chamberlin, 582; Have You Ever Been Lost in Beauty? By Christina Cox Stacey, 586; After-Words, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 617; Three-Generation Bible, by Ora Pate Stewart, 619; Till Love Comes Home, by Rae Woolley Whited, 632; Lyric of Happiness, by Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn, 637; The Garden, by Catherine B. Bowles, 640. 

Published monthly by Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Poneted manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. sa on.: ni ' had ee bo 8 DES 3 INCREASE CS SR SE ae Elder Bruce R. McConkie Of the First Council of Seventy @ Faith like the ancients—what we would give to possess it! By faith all things are possible. To name the fruits of faith is simply to list all of the miracles, all of the gifts and signs, all of the events of creation, redemption, and salvation. By faith Enoch walked with God; Melchizedek quenched the violence of fire; Moses led Israel through the Red Sea; Joshua stopped the sun; Elijah called down fire from heaven; Daniel stopped the mouths of lions; and Moriancumer moved Mount Zerin; Peter and Paul raised the dead; and by faith, prophets in all ages have opened the eyes of the blind, unstopped the ears of the deaf, loosed the tongues of the dumb, healed withered limbs, rebuked diseases, restored health. By faith, men accept the gospel, forsake the world, become the sons of God, go on to eternal perfection, and gain mansions in that kingdom where God and Christ dwell. "Faith is the moving cause 564 of all action in... Intelligent beings." It is a "principle... Of power." It "is the first great governing principle which has power, dominion, and authority over all things; by it they exist, by it they are upheld, by it they are changed, or by it they remain, agreeable to the will of God. Without it there is no power, and without power there could be no creation nor existence." So taught the Prophet Joseph Smith in the Lectures on Faith. The ancient apostles—knowing of the mighty deeds done by the prophets who preceded them, knowing that these things had been done by faith, knowing that faith was a principle of power— presented to the Master this petition: "Increase our faith." They wanted, through faith, what every saint, ancient and modern, desires—to have power to do all things which are harmonious with the will of God in this life and then to gain eternal salvation in the life to come. Jesus' reply (as far as the record reveals) did not answer their query. Instead, he spoke simply of the transcendent power manifest through the exercise of faith. "If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed," said he, '"'ye might say unto this sycamine tree, Be thou plucked up by the root, and be thou planted in the sea; and it should obey you" (Luke 17:5-6). And so the problem remains. As with the Twelve in Palestine, so with the saints today: How is faith gained, increased, perfected, until the man of God attains that spiritual stature which assures him of eternal life? "Lord, increase our faith." As they petitioned, so do we pray: "Lord, Let us have power to uproot sycamine trees, to move mountains, to work miracles, to do all things needful while here on earth, and to be saved in thy kingdom in due course." As they knew, so do we that faith and its fruits go together, that if we possess that power which is faith, we will enjoy those things which are the fruits of faith. Joseph Smith said: Because faith is wanting, the fruits are. No man since the world was had faith without having something along with it. The ancients quenched the violenge of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, women received their dead, etc. By faith the worlds were made. A man who has none of the gifts has no faith; and he deceives himself, if he supposes he has. Faith has been wanting, not only among the heathen, but in professed Christendom also, so that tongues, healings, prophecy, and prophets and apostles, and all the gifts and blessings have been wanting (PRESIDENT JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 270). LORD, INCREASE OUR FAITH Viewed in its proper perspective, then, the pursuit of faith becomes man's most important enterprise, for through faith men gain the greatest blessings both in time and in eternity. For the spiritual novice, the spiritually weak, the-seeker who is but beginning—perhaps even for the apostles who were told anew by their Lord of the power that is faith—the casting of sycamine trees into the sea seems, if not impossible, at least a difficult thing reserved for a favored few. AND so, perhaps, it is, for faith (or power) is found in all degrees and in all quantities. One man has faith (or power) to do one thing, and another has power (or faith) to do something greater. Thus the Prophet said: Miracles are the fruits of faith. Faith comes by hearing the word of God. If a man has not faith enough to do one thing, he may have faith to do another: if he cannot remove a mountain, he may heal the sick. Where faith is there will be some of the fruits: all gifts and power which were sent from heaven, were poured out on the heads of those who had faith (History of the Church [DHC] Volume V, page 355). In gaining faith there must be a beginning point, a place to start, a time when the power that is faith finds initial lodgment in the human soul. Since faith comes by hearing the word of God (Romans 10:17), faith seekers must hear the word of God taught, taught in plainness and perfection by legal administrators who have power and insight and who teach the truth. Those who hear must elect to be receptive; they must make an S65 AUGUST 1965 initial choice to believe. Alma stated it this way:. If ye will awake and arouse your faculties, even to an experiment upon my words, and exercise a particle of faith, yea, even if ye can no more than desire to believe, let this desire work in you, even until ye believe in a manner that ye can give place for a portion of my words. He then compared the word unto a seed, which, if planted in the heart and allowed to swell and grow, would enlarge the soul and enlighten the understanding. Then he asked: "'Would not this increase your faith?" (Alma 32: 27-28). Thus Alma, in general terms, tells how to lay a foundation for gaining and increasing faith. But it is left to Joseph Smith to spell out the details, to announce the specific formula-for-faith. He said "that three things are necessary in order that any rational and intelligent being may exercise faith in God unto life and salvation."" These he named as: 1. The idea that he actually exists; 2. A correct idea of his character, perfections, and attributes; and 3. An actual knowledge that the course of life which he is pursuing is according to his will (Lectures on Faith, page 33). Following this perfect formulafor-faith will seem easy to some members of the Church, hard to others. Some of its provisions are almost automatically fulfilled by every member of the kingdom; others seemingly require a constant labor and effort. As to the idea that God actually exists—there is no problem. From that spring morning in 1820, when the Father and the 566 Son stood in glorious immortality before the destined head of this dispensation, there has never been any question in the minds of true Latter-day Saints as to the existence of Deity. We worship that God in whose image man is made; that holy and exalted Personage who is our Father in heaven; that Supreme Being of whom the revelation says: "The Father has a body of flesh and bones as tangible as man's; the Son also; but the Holy Ghost has not a body of flesh and bones, but is a personage of Spirit" (D&C 130:22). As to having a correct idea of his character, perfections, and attributes—the problem is a little more difficult. By way of summary, the Prophet spells out the character of God under these six headings: 1. "He was God before the world was created, and the same God that he was after it was created"; 2. "He is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, abundant in goodness, and he was so from everlasting, and will be so to everlasting"; 3. "He changes not, neither is there variableness with him, and... His course is one eternal round"; 4. '"'He is a God of truth, and cannot lie'; 5. "He is no respecter of persons"; and 6. "He is love' (Lectures on Faith, page 38). Most members of the Church find it easy to set their souls in harmony with these' eternal truths which taken collectively make up the character of Deity. God's attributes are given as: Knowledge, Faith or Power, Justice, Judgment, Mercy, and Truth, and the Prophet explains that "without the idea of the existence of the attributes which belong to God, the minds of men could not have power to exercise faith in him so as to lay hold upon eternal life" (Ibid., pp. 42- 49). Here again the members of the kingdom find little difficulty in ascribing to the Almighty the very attributes which he _ possesses. "What we mean by perfections," the Prophet says, "'is the perfections which belong to all the attributes of his nature." This means, for instance, that Deity has all mercy; that there is no part of this attribute which he must yet gain; that he is the embodiment, the personification, the total possessor of it all. It means he is not only a Being endowed with the attributes of truth and knowledge, but that he possesses these attributes in their fulness and perfection. In other words, he knows all things and is not gaining new knowledge or learning new truths. And so it is with each attribute; the perfection of God consists in possessing them in their fulness and perfection. These concepts are not too difficult for most members of the restored kingdom, but there are some who stumble to a degree by professing to worship a progressing rather than a perfected God. In explaining and amplifying the phase of the perfections of God which deal with truth and knowledge, Joseph Smith taught: Without the knowledge of all things, God would not be able to save any portion of his creatures; for it is by reason of the knowledge which he has of all things, from the beginning to the end, that enables him to give that LORD, INCREASE OUR FAITH understanding to his creatures by which they are made partakers of eternal life; and if it were not for the idea existing in the minds of men that God had all knowledge it, would be impossible for them to exercise faith in him (Ibid., page 43). Now as to the third requirement in the _ formula-for-faith, that of gaining an actual knowledge that the course of one's life is according to the divine will— this is the place where the greatest obstacles are found. On this point the Prophet's language is: "An actual knowledge to any person, that the course of life which he pursues is according to the will of God, is essentially necessary to enable him to have that confidence in God without which no person can obtain eternal life"' (Ibid., page 57). In other words, faith is born of righteousness; faith follows obedience; faith is the power which God gives to those who serve him in righteousness and in truth unto the end. What, then, is the revealed answer to the apostolic plea, "Lord, Increase our faith''? Surely it is this: Faith comes by hearing the word of God, by accepting the apostles and prophets who represent Deity, by learning the true doctrines of salvation. Faith comes because we let the seed of the word swell in our bosoms until light and understanding fill our souls. Faith comes when we believe in our hearts that God actually exists, when we accept the truth as to his character, perfections, and attributes. And, finally, faith comes, increases, and is tested as we so 567 AUGUST 1965 live as to gain the actual assurance that our lives are in harmony with the divine will. And when it comes, what glories it brings! Hear, in conclusion, the words of the Prophet: When faith comes it brings its train of attendants with it—apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, teachers, gifts, wisdom, knowledge, miracles, healings, tongues, interpretation of tongues, etc. All these appear when faith appears on the earth, and disappear when it disappears from the earth; for these are the effects of faith, and always have attended, and always will, attend it. For where faith is, there will the knowledge of God be also, with all things which pertain thereto—revelations, visions, and dreams, as well as every necessary thing, in order that the possessors of faith may be perfected, and obtain salvation; for God must change, otherwise faith will prevail with him. And he who possesses it will, through it, obtain all necessary knowledge and wisdom, until he shall know God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, whom he has sent—whom to know is eternal life (Ibid., page 69). Farewell to a Son Margery S. Stewart All the night is hollow With your leaving, Where does the echoing begin Far off or deep within? It must follow | be furnished again With believing. The cumquat tree was sundered, One branch taken For rooting elsewhere. (And is it | out there. Halved, | wondered, Am | the bleeding tree Bereft and shaken, Are you the young promise?) We, who were one strength, Now suddenly made two Frail, uncertain, but new, Debtors to a premise And parting, but fruit bearing, | pray, after blossoming length. Is this then meaning of increase... Division that does not cease? 568 —= Companionship of Couples2 a Lila B. Walch Member, General Board of Relief Society @ Sister Johnson smiled as she gave the finishing touches to the "low-calorie" dessert she had been preparing. What a difference a few years made in one's habits! Not only in the type of dessert planned for Home Evening; but in so many other ways as well. She thought of the preparations that had been necessary for Home Evening when the family was small and through their growingup years. There was always excitement, happiness, lively chatter and, usually, a bit of confusion as the children took their turns in helping with the plans and preparations. Indeed, there would have been no place for a "lowcalorie' dessert in those days. Nothing was done in "low gear" when the family was at home! Yes, a few years did make a difference. Tonight there would be no program numbers for proud parents and appreciative brothers and sisters to applaud. There would be no surprise dessert, kept hidden by the one in charge until just the proper moment. There would be no little ones to lead in thanking Heavenly Father for his blessings in the warm, loving way of those who have recently been in his presence. Tonight there would be no teenage attitudes to puzzle and challenge the parents. No fifteen-year-old Jim to act bored and a bit rebelkous, but to blend his spirit with that of the family as the evening progressed. There would be no sweet Pam, bubbling with excitement and eager to share her feelings with all who would listen. There would be no Frank nor David to add to the discussion of the lesson. Tonight, there would be just Brother and Sister Johnson—and the success of the Family Home Evening in this household depended on the attitude of these two people. Sister Johnson remembered her reaction to the _ bishop's announcement in sacrament meeting when he said that Thursday night was being designated as "Family Home Evening Night" in their stake. She had thought, Well, this does not involve us, we have no children at home. And then her mind drifted to other wards in other stakes where their children were living. She hoped that their bishops were making similar announcements. It was such a fine program for young families. Her mind had come back into the 569 AUGUST 1965 chapel just in time to hear the bishop conclude his announcement, "This program is for everyone. We expect all members of this ward to follow the counsel of the prophet who has said that parents should guide children, not arbitrarily, but through the kind example of a father and a loving mother." Of course, they would have to hold their Family Home Evening program. How else could they set an example, except by doing what they were asked to do? Even if the family could not be with them, they could share, through their letters, this wonderful program of teaching the gospel in the home. Sister Johnson thought of the precious Thursday evenings she had enjoyed with her husband since the time that the Home Teachers had brought the Family Home Evening Manual into their home. She thought of the night when the suggested activity for an older couple had been to make a list of the qualities they admired and appreciated in their children. How very special the evening had become when her husband began by telling her of the things he admired in her. How easy it was, then, to tell him of the qualities he possessed that had helped to build a happy home. Then followed a discussion of each of the children and, somehow, that night, distances were spanned and the sons and daughters had become a close part of the Johnson's Family Home Evening. There had been other nights when the children had seemed to be a part of the Family Council. There was the time when Frank 570 had written for advice concerning the buying of a new home. David had asked about an opportunity he had to continue his education. On one such occasion her husband had read to her from the Melchizedek Priesthood Lessons (1965), "It is a wonderful thing when parents and children can form a partnership that carries throughout the life of all. The partnership does not end at the marriage of the children.... Children work as hard as they can to achieve their place in life on their own merits, but they have the security of knowing they can rely on the counsel, support and help of various kinds from the parents if they are needed" (page 18). Tus partnership, this feeling of sharing the joys and the problems of the family, had kept the Johnsons from feeling envious when some of their friends, who had children living near, had told them of special occasions when they had been asked to participate in a Home Evening Program with their grandchildren. To be with their family would be wonderful, but to feel that they were with you in interests, was also good. Sister Johnson thought again | how very blessed she was to have one night a week reserved to spend with her husband in a study of the scriptures and the gospel truths. She thought how much they had learned during the past year concerning their relationship to their Heavenly Father, to Jesus Christ, to the Holy Ghost, and to the Church. But there was so much more to Letitia Keeps In Touch Dorothy Clapp Robinson J%¥} @ The chimes on the depot tower were striking seven A. M. As Tish Haworth turned her car onto highway 30 N.; beside her sat her good friend, Althea Johnson. Between the front and back seats was a large picnic cooler filled, as Althea knew, with food. In a carton were jars of jam, jellies, and pickles. "Why all the food?' Althea asked. "Are we going to stay a month?" '"'We never travel where we are going without food and water. We have to cross a desert, and if we should happen to get stranded." "Stranded! Didn't you have your car checked?" Tish almost stopped the car, then she stepped on the accelerator. ""No—I forgot; but the tires are good and I have a spare." Althea said nothing for several minutes, then she asked, ""Who is this Jenny that we must cross a desert to find?" "IT told you. I read this article by a very prominent writer and she said we should keep in touch with our old friends because old 572 friendships were the richest and most rewarding."' "But why didn't you write first and see if she would like us to visit her?" "T don't know her address." "Then, how in the name of sense, do you expect to find her?" "T know where she used to live, and they aren't the type of people who move. I spent part of two different summers on their homestead. Jenny was an only child and her mother died when she was a child. I guess I was about the only close friend she ever had. After she was through school, she married a boy from the next farm. Then, when her father passed away, the husband took over both farms. They have lived there ever since." "How do you know? High school is a long time in the past. She could be anywhere by now." "Just trust me. I know what I am doing." "T'll have to now my driver's license has expired; but how far is it?" "A good half-day's drive, and we may have to stay at Gooding all night on our way back. That is, if Jenny doesn't insist we stay with her." Tish's tone implied that most certainly Jenny would insist—perhaps more than one night. Althea was a little dubious. She had been caught in one or two of Tish's enthusiastic adventures before. "Why all the food?" "Well—we can't tell just what circumstances we will find her in. As I remember, they have no fruit where they live." "Then the fried chicken and baked ham are for us and the jams are for her," Althea said. Tish disdained to answer. Iv was a glorious morning. The air, when Althea lowered her window, was warmly refreshing, but the wind promised heat. They were traveling parallel to mountains whose distant white caps touched a cobalt sky. For more than two hours they sped on paved highways, and they passed through several small towns; then they turned northeast and the pavement gave way to blacktop. Their watches said fifteen to eleven when they stopped for gas at what seemed to be civilization's last outpost. "Perhaps we should have something to eat now," Althea suggested, '"'we had an early breakfast." "Oh, no," Tish replied easily. "We haven't more than an hour and a half left. Jenny would not like our having eaten. She is the soul of hospitality." "But so many people are traveling these days, and there are always those who hunt free meals and free beds." LETITIA KEEPS IN TOUCH They passed through a farming section where the road followed farm boundaries. The roads were graveled, largely by nature; then the water was behind, and they were entering a section of open space, open except for huge upheavals of cracked and broken lava rock. White clouds floated high overhead and the mountains moved grudgingly nearer. As far as they could see there was nothing between them and_ the mountains but rocks and space. The road narrowed and swung perilously around curves. Lizards, sunning on rocks, ignored their passing; rabbits loped across the road in front of them; and huge magpies rose lazily out of the car's way but dropped quickly back to gorge on rabbits hit by speeding cars. Tish had slowed her speed. She had been over this road before, but the curves were sharper and the road narrower than they had been then. Occasionally a car jumped at them from behind a curve. The drivers whizzed by with the utmost unconcern for road conditions. "What a place to have a." Althea didn't finish the thought, for it suddenly materialized. Tish saw the jagged boulder lying in wait for them; she swerved sharply, but the right rear tire struck it hard. She fought to keep the car under control, but it was a little distance before she could stop it. Althea was out at once. A fatal whistling was coming from the rear tire. The whistling stopped when the road met the rim. Tish slid from her seat. Reluctantly, she surveyed the damage. "I can't understand why that 573 AUGUST 1965 rock should have been inthe road. You would think some motorist would have moved it." "Never mind understanding that," Althea interrupted, "do you understand putting on a new wheel? After we get the old off, if we do?" "Well," Tish acknowledged, "'I have never done it, but I have watched the man at the garage, and it is easy." WartcHING it done was not on the level of doing it, they soon found out. By dint of much discussion and hard labor they managed to work the jack and drag the good tire from the trunk. Bolts would not turn and nothing gave but their strength. They were hot, tired, and disheveled. Althea searched through the cooler and brought a thermos and sandwiches. "If we have to stay here all night we won't go hungry." After quenching their thirst and eating an enormous amount of bread and fried chicken, they felt better but were not less hot. "There comes a car!" Tish jumped. "I caught a glimpse of it. Let's get this food out of sight or the driver will think we are just resting." As if they could rest in such a hot, dry place! A pickup with a covered bed came around a curve. The driver glanced briefly at them. The women looked at each other in despair, but the driver slowed and shot his car backward. "Having trouble?' He came around their car to confirm his knowledge, then, without asking whys or wherefores, he went to work. Tish hovered close, trying to help and assuring him she 574 would never again forget to have her tires checked. "We are going up the road to visit Jenny McHan." '"'Never heard of her.'' The man rose and dusted his hands. "Okay now." "Can I give you a sandwich?" Tish offered. She was anxious to show her gratitude. "Nope. Just had dinner." He started the motor, then leaned from the cab window. "Old women like you have no business traveling this road, even with good tires." With a spurt of dust and gravel, he was gone. "T'll forgive him for that ignorant remark," Tish pushed herself into place behind the wheel, "but he doesn't deserve it." "Did you notice what he said?" Althea asked, "he had just had his dinner so he could not have come far, yet he has never heard of Jenny McHan." THE car gathered speed. Althea turned her attention to the way ahead. An _ ever-moving wind chased tumbleweeds across the road and into the monotonous gray waste. The lack of color was broken only by the occasional patches of dark green pinions. The fleecy white clouds cast their moving shadows over the hills ahead. Suddenly a darkish cloud crept over them from behind and dropped a splattering of raindrops on the car and in the dust of the road. It passed as swiftly as it had come, its shadow running freely over the dry earth. "We turn at the foot of these hills," Tish explained, "'then we turn east and travel between them and the lava beds." They made the gradual turn, but when they were going east, Althea could see only three houses. One, far to the left, was nestled in a cove of the hill. On the right was a once-white house that now looked scorched and unlived in. Between the road and the bleak lava desert was a strip of farming land. Grain was in the head, and somewhere a mowing machine was clicking rhythmically. "No wonder your friend needs friends," Althea commented, wondering if their way lay around another hill. Bur a mile further on they approached the third house. From their first glimpse they knew it was different. It had been recently painted and a row of cottonwoods sheltered it on the west. Behind it were other buildings. "This is it." Tish turned into a long driveway. "Will she be surprised!" She hit three sharp toots on the horn. Nothing happened. Silence settled over them, broken only by the contented songs of many hens in the rear. Tish' tooted again. No response. ~ "T'm going in." She flung open the car door. There was no response to her repeated knocks. Tish tried the screen door. It opened and she went inside. A moment later she opened it again and called to Althea. 'Come in. She is here." Althea walked slowly toward the house. She paused to admire a bed of blue delphiniums and sweet peas. As she went through the doorway she caught an unobserved look at Jenny. In age she was comparable to them, but LETITIA KEEPS IN TOUCH she was small and her hair was a wispy white, and she was deeply tanned. Her expression was inscrutable. Tish was talking a streak and not waiting for answers. About the room were several exquisite oil paintings. "Jenny, this is my good friend, Althea Johnson. She came with me purposely to meet you, but since she sold her car she has no driver's license so I had to do all the driving." Jenny nodded to Althea and smiled, but her eyes were impersonal. Tish's flow of words went on, but somewhere in her story they started dribbling. The next ten minutes were a torture of embarrassment. Quite without realizing why or when, the two were in their car speeding homeward. They had traveled ten miles before either spoke. "TI can't understand." Tish's normally kind optimistic attitude was shattered; frustration, humillation, and anger made her voice harsh. "After coming all this way she didn't even ask us to sit down or offer us a bite to eat." She underscored the last by a series of blasts from the horn. Cows grazing along the low slope looked up. One started to run. "Years bring changes,'"' Althea tried to speak soothingly, 'and it was rude of us to pounce on her as we did, and she was flustered.". "She was flustered! What about me, after driving so far?" They made the returning curves in record time. Not only had they suffered frustration and disappointment, but they had missed their afternoon naps. The food in the cooler was not men- 575 AUGUST 1965 tioned the whole afternoon. "Let's eat," Tish stated as they entered Gooding. She stopped at the first cafe they saw. Outside it looked only passable, but inside it was cool and clean. The waitress led them into a dining room that was everything one could expect. The waitress was a woman not under fifty and very neat and intelligent looking. When they were seated Tish asked her about a motel. She mentioned several, then added, "But you are late. The best ones are usually filled by this time. I will give you a suggestion when I come back." T HEY ordered and the waitress left. Althea's attention was caught by a painting on the wall she faced. "Look at it," she told Tish. Tish turned to see. She stared. It was a spot out of reality, but painted with a subtleness that spoke a message. From the east and the west, shoulders of white-topped mountains reached and touched toes with the dark forbidding lava beds. The home was surrounded. Safe. "Althea, that is the place we visited this afternoon." Just then the waitress returned. "You are lucky if you got in there. She is very famous, and very kind to let this cafe hang that painting. It is called 'Safe.' " "Famous," Tish breathed the word softly. "My friend Jenny McHan famous." "That isn't her name," the waitress pointed to the autograph which they could not see. "Her name is Jeanie Whitsom. Mrs. McHan lives here in town, when they are home. She and her husband come in to eat quite often." Tish turned a stunned face to 576 Althea. "I have to find out." The waitress directed her to a telephone. When she returned, her face was shining but her dinner had cooled. "T found her," she gloated. "She is coming right down and we are staying at her place tonight. In the morning we are going back to visit Jeanie Whitsom. Apparently, she and Jenny are bosom friends." When Jenny McHan entered the cafe she recognized Tish at once. She was a little taller than Jeanie Whitsom and everything about her spoke of money, but in a cultured way. "Won't Mrs. Whitsom resent us?" Althea asked, later, when their dinners were finished. "She was sort of—of." "She is stone deaf,"' Jenny explained, '"'and is pestered by publicity seekers. She reads my lips, so we have interesting conversations. She is not only an artist but a philosopher. She _ has definite ideas about life and people." When they reached the ranch house the next forenoon Jenny opened the door without knocking and the three went in. There was no one in the living room or the kitchen, so Jenny pushed through a door at the back. They stepped into an_ unbelievable room, a studio. The windows were placed so one could see the magnificent setting of the home. There were numerous paintings about, as there would be in any studio. Jenny and Jeanie greeted each other in understanding camaraderie. Jeanie understood her friend perfectly and answered Jenny's questions unhesitatingly, but in a monotone peculiar to some deaf people. Tish and Althea had trouble understanding her. They discussed the paintings, the one in process of completion, the visit of Tish and Althea. Then over Jenny's protests the painter became hostess and served them an appetizing lunch with most of the ingredients coming directly from her garden. Her son, she explained, had taken eggs to market. WHILE they were eating, Jeanie went back to the -studio and brought out a small brown envelope. Smiling mischievously she handed it to Althea. 'For the two of you, but look at them on your way home."' Thanking her, Althea put the envelope in her bag. When they were driving back, Tish asked, ''When she is so famous why does she live in such an out-of-the-way place?" "They came here because of her son's health, but now that he is well, neither wants to leave. She gets inspiration from the mountains and the lavas." They stayed that night with Jenny and they were nearly home the next day when Althea thought of the brown envelope. She took it from her bag and drew out two pencil sketches, one of her, one of Tish. Tish stopped the car while they examined them. They saw themselves as Jeanie had seen them the first day when they had walked unannounced into her house. Althea's calm, uncomplicated nature had been depicted in swift, sure strokes. It was some minutes before Tish could chuckle LETITIA KEEPS IN TOUCH at her likeness. It was alive with conflicting emotions. "YT didn't realize I was being selfish." "She doesn't show that. You are not selfish." "Yes, I was, and strong-headed. I tried to patronize Jenny and renew our acquaintance on my own terms. I was ready to give her something I thought she did not have. And I was going to be a real lady about it." Althea leaned toward Tish and studied the sketch she _ held. "There is love and kindness in your face, but," she spoke slowly, "there is a trace of impetuosity in it."" She was not sure that was the right word, but she did know Tish often rushed into things. "It was a fruitful trip anyway," she added as Tish started the car. "You found your friend and made another and I found two friends." Tish would not say anything more; but when they went through a gap and caught sight of their beloved valley, she turned the car to the side of the road and stopped. Then she started laughing. Althea was bewildered. "What is funny?" she asked. "You know," Tish answered when the explosion had passed, "IT don't believe that woman made anything but marks. I think she meant us to see ourselves, so when we saw those sketches we were eager to interpret them to know what she thought of us. To find the answers, we looked into our own hearts and created our own images. It could have been the trip rather than the sketches that compelled us to see ourselves as others see us." 577 The Uninvited Guest—Mr. Germ Utah State Board of Health @ Women of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have enjoyed the reputation of being excellent cooks from the earliest days of the Church. Bake sales, Church picnics, banquets, and food fairs are an integral part of our Mormon culture. Whenever a Church auxiliary, ward or stake, sponsors a fundraising dinner and accepts "pot luck" contributions from its members, there is always a big turnout. Everyone is eager to show his appreciation for good home cooking. Since these Church social affairs are such an established part of our way of life, health officials would not want to see them abandoned, so they are anxious to bring a few vital protective measures to the attention of those who are responsible for food at such functions. By observing such measures, participants are assured of safe and sanitary, as well as appetizing, menus. The Food Service Sanitation Manual of the United States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare states that: Food-borne diseases have occurred and continue to occur from food served at clubs, church socials and suppers, at picnics, banquets and catered affairs. For this reason, public health authorities should work with the community group responsible for this type of food service operation, in order to insure the application of food protective measures. 578 Experience also indicates that too few health agencies take an active part in the supervision of food-service operations of churches and institutions having religious affiliations. This is a serious omission. The food sanitation principles are often not observed, the hazard in terms of potential food-borne illness is significantly greater than from foods-served by establishments under official supervision. Food poisoning is serious! It may occur as a result of food eaten in your own home, at a Church supper, or in the finest restaurant. Most often, however, it occurs when people unaccustomed to dealing with large quantities of food attempt to serve a large crowd. Bacteria that cause food poisoning lurk everywhere. It is hard to keep them out of food. For example, they are found in the nose, throat, and on the skin. It is therefore vital that personal hygiene be practiced and thorough handwashing be carried out prior to handling or preparing food. Keep hands away from food as much as possible. Use spoons or tongs and never re-use a spoon when tasting a mixture while it is cooking. Make certain that eating utensils are thoroughly washed and sanitized after each use. The mouth can harbor many types of germs. Whenever utensils come in contact with the mouth some saliva and germs are certain to remain on them. If not cleaned Sauce, Potato Salad » Meat Salads, Warmed-ovey' eans, The U d not be y te Department of: Health, Division of Nvironmen- " swollen op » has Published 4 nationally recognized Seventy-one cold foods Cold—ho} Page, Ulustrateq booklet, Food foods hot. Foods Stand Service Sanitation Mperature. Do not un- 1 dertake a la anual, as a fuide jn establishing More unj "se banq et, church form and e €ctive Control of food Inner, ete unless there jg ad handling Practices throughout the quate space to pr Pare, refrigertate. The Info ation js especiate, and Keep hot food hot (140° ally Suited to Church Social func F) and Cold foods Cold (45° F.) TONS as wel] S to commercja] S€ extra Care | handlin ood handlers Opies are availOods of high Protein conte t, such able through the Utah State De. 4S cooke 4nd proces d eats, Partment of Health. Nother Meat Products, Poultr > eggs ighly recommended booklet en 8Tavies, fish, Custards, nd pudtitled, Serv; Successfy] Snacks Ings, uch ds are easily and als, for lu Lodge rontaminated through Carelegs Church and IC Gro PS, pub andling. Lished by the aper C P and Con Allow frozen foods to thaw in tainer Instit te he refrigerator 1, Possible, B A Cause reezing t+ n Lats Speak Correctly Myrtle E. Henderson, M. S. WeEnglish is not spoken in America today! That is what I heard a comedian on television Let us see if there isn't a grain of truth in the statement. The mistakes made on television and radio, to say nothing of those made by people in too many homes, to be convinced that there is a little ground for such an indictment. We can overcome our errors if only we will listen to ourselves and make the necessary effort. Are you ever tripped up by the tense (time) of a verb or overcome by a participle? Some of these forms seem to be especially troublesome. 'Test yourself on these tenses: Which would you use? 1. Will you (lie, lay) down? 2.1 (lay, laid, lied) down for an hour. 3 She had (laid, lain) in bed all day. 4. Please (lay, lie) the book on the' table. Lay means to place something, and is always followed by an object. Lie means to rest, and has no object. Now the thing that confuses many people is that lay is also the past tense of lie. The past perfect tense denotes that the action of the verb was completed at some definite point in the past. A Jook at these verb forms may help. Present Past Tense Past Perfect Participle lie lay had lain lying lay laid had laid laying So the first sentence would use 580 lie. It is an intransitive verb and has no object. The second sentence would use lay because it is the past tense of the verb lie and has no object. In sentence number three, we find the past perfect tense, because there is a helping verb had and the action was completed in the past. In the fourth sentence, the verb has an object, and is in the present tense so lay is the form to use. Shall we use the participles in sentences? 1. The men are laying the carpet. 2. Mother is lying down. Here again we have the transitive verb form are laying and the object is carpet. In number two, is lying is an intransitive verb and requires no object. Lying is also the participle form of the verb lie, which means to rest. Pronouns get us into trouble when they do not agree with their antecedents (the word to which the pronoun refers). We must remember that a pronoun must agree with its antecedent in person, number, and gender. Look at these sentences: 1. Each girl should do her own work (not their). Girl is the antecedent of her, and is single, therefore her should be used instead of their. Girl is in the third person (the one spoken about), and feminine gender—two other reasons why her should be used. 9. Every man should pay his share. Now, can you find the pronoun and its antecedent? Can you give the reasons why the pronoun his is the correct one to use? Such words as every, everyone, everybody, anybody, nobody, each, either, neither, and no one are singular in number. When they are used in a sentence the verb must be singular as: 1. Each of the boys was given a present: Each is the subject of the verb was given, and boys is the object of the preposition of. 2. Everyone is going to the picnic (not are). 3. Neither Mary nor Jane has called (not have). The use of double negatives in a sentence indicates uncultured speech. The words aren't, no, doesn't hardly, scarcely, and but, are the most commonly misused. They are all negative forms and should not be used together in the same sentence. The sense of a sentence with a double negative is often questionable, or just Opposite to that which the speaker intends. Now let's See if we can find out what is wrong with the following sentences: 3. I don't want no help. 4. We have hardly no bread. 5. He hasn't got no money. 6. He didn't learn nothing. Shall we change the sentences and use only one negative and see what a difference jt will make with the sense of the sentence? Use a positive word with the negative, thus: 1. He has scarcely any friends. 2. She can hardly walk since the accident. 3. I don't want any help. 4. We have hardly any bread. 5. He hasn't any money, or he has no money. The word got is entirely unnecessary in the sentence. 6. He didn't learn anything. Nothing is also a negative form and should not be used with didn't. LET'S SPEAK CORR ECTLY Are you guilty of these mistakes? Now let's have a look at words often misused or mispronounced. (def). Do not go to the liberry instead of to the library. Do not say li-lock instead of lilac. Remember that sego is the lily, and Sago is the pudding. Tamarisk is the shrub, and tamarack is a tree. A recipe is a list of ingredients of a mixture for cooking something, but a receipt is a written acknowledgment of a payment. If you give blood for a transfusion, you are a donor not a donner. Sometimes we hear people complaining that their arthurritis is bothering them. We might ask, "What is that?" If they say they are suffering from arthritis, we could be sure they are in pain, because there is such a disease. The word favorite has three syllables and should be pronounced fa vor it, not favrite. We often hear mistakes made on a group of words which are spelled with an 0, but are pronounced as if they were spelled with an a. For example: horse is often called harse, and hornet Should not be called harnet. Some verbs often used _ incorrectly are: raise a transitive verb requiring an object, meaning to lift. Please raise the window. Rise an intransitive verb meaning to ascend. Rise above your environment. Rear meaning to bring up, to train. He was reared in an orphanage. Let us try to use better language! 581 ~ a ac - - (paren eae ete ttgagtatis SE taal em « « > a ee "~. Ee = * 5 °. Y gy: P *- 1 ee hen ee 8 € Photograph by Willard Luce THE GRAND TETONS, WYOMING The Mountain's Gift Enola Chamberlin The mountains beg my gypsy heart to stay A month, a week, at least another day. But my clear mind says now that | must go Back to the duties of life, the debts | owe. And then they beg again that | should take A cedar sprig, pine cone for memory's sake. These are heart things. | let the mountains plead. For strength, not tears is what | greatly need, And this the mountain calm, the peace distills— A present from the everlasting hills. No gift to show the mountains legacy— Still do | bring their. Strength back home with me. 582 _ Miss Barbara Ward, (Lady Jackson, wife of Commander Robert G. A. Jackson) gave the Commencement address at the University of Utah, June 11, d an honorary degree. Miss Ward, Editor of the London i has frequent articles in author of F West at Bay. She was graduated from Oxford University, England, at the top of her class in politics, philosophy, and economics. She has the reputation of being among the best of contemporary speakers. Virginia Tanner, nationally famed Latter-day Saint children's dance director, presented forty young girls in a dance program at the University of California at in June. Doctor Alma Hawkins, head of the dance department, arranged for the appearence after seeing the children's work in San Francisco. Miss Tanner's students have danced in many parts of the United States, and at the World's Fair in Seattle. Representative Frances Bolton (Republican, Ohio) is eighty years old and still serving in the House of Representatives. In 1940, upon her husband's death, she completed his term of office and has served in Congress ever since. For some years she and her son Oliver were the only mother-son team in the House, but in the last election, Oliver was defeated while his mother came through with flying colors. To Germany in miles on German soil. She is the first British monarch to enter Germany since her grandfather King George Vv went eve of World War |. The purpose of the visit is seen as the setting aside of past hatreds. Linda Sistrunk, twenty, a coed at Utah State University, Logan, who comes from Fillmore, Millard County, Utah, was senior winner of the "Make It Yourself With Wool" national contest for 1965. She designed and made the costume she wore —a_ navy blue brushed wool coat over a white wool dress with tucks and button detailing. Her award is a trip to London, Paris, Nice, and Rome. Mrs. Gisella Gresser of New York City has been United States Women's chess champion for several years Now. Among the eminent American women novelists considered and evaluated in Pioneers and Caretakers, by Louis Auchincloss, author and critic (University of Minnesota Press), are: Sarah Orne Jewitt, Edith Wharton, Ellen Glasgow, Willa Cather, i Roberts, Katherine Anne Porter, Jean Stafford, Carson McCullers, and Mary McCarthy. 583 EDITORIAL Self-Reliance @ 'Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God'' (D&C 18:10). Great is the worth of each individual soul; great is the love of our Heavenly Father for his sons and daughters; great is the gift of free agency which he has given each one. He who uses the gift best becomes self-reliant. He endeavors to fulfill in his own life the Lord's promise of more abundant living to those who seek the higher intellectual and spiritual life. 'Making a living is a necessity, but making a life is a duty, an everlasting blessing,' President David O. McKay has said (Pathways to Happiness, page 1). Individual effort is required in ''making a life," the kind of life for which God sent his Son to make possible. No one should be so weak as to depend upon others for the things he should do himself. The weakest of the weak are they who claim that the world, or the Government, or the Church owes them a living. The strong rely upon themselves. Self-reliance is a virtue when divine guidance is sought. Self-reliance is a virtue when it is based on a conscious effort to achieve self-mastery, to eschew evil. Self-reliance is a virtue if it leads to service and does not become selfishness, nor self-complacency. Self-reliance is a virtue when it is practiced as dependence upon God and oneself to build strength and fortitude. "Our sufficiency is of God,'' declared the ancient prophet (II Corinthians 3:5). It was not intended that anyone be completely selfsufficient. Self-reliance is not aloneness. It is more complete trust in the efficacy of keeping the commandments—a more complete reliance upon God's promised blessings. Nor does self-reliance rule out the influence of others, or make it necessary to withdraw from their company. Rather, it means an acceptance of the righteous lessons learned from others' teachings and experiences as part of the necessary Volume 52 August 1965 Number 8 e Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor e Louise W. Madsen, Second Co @ Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Tr The Relief Society Annual General Conference The Relief Society Annual General Conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, September 29 and 30, 1965. The general session will be held on Wednesday, September 29 from 2 to 4 P. M. In the Tabernacle. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards the general session of conference to which the general public is invited. Attendance at the Officers Meeting on Wednesday morning, September 29, in the Tabernacle, and the departmental meetings to be held on Thursday morning and Thursday afternoon, September 30, is limited to stake board members and mission officers. Have You Ever Been Lost in Beauty? Christina Cox Stacey Have you ever been lost in a field of clover, Where soft lacy clouds filter sunshine all over; Where gay honey bees softly hum hour by hour, As they ardently kiss each delectable flower? Have you ever strayed into a maze, all aglow With sunshine above, golden blossoms below; Where pert dandelions, an artist's find, Bow tousled heads in the summer wind? Have you ever strolled under an evening sky, And beheld a myriad of stars on high; While the shining moon, like a crescent bow, Glides silently down to the hills below? Such glimpses of rapture, with beauties admired, Are mine for the asking, no toll is required, So when my soul hungers, stars in my eyes, | follow the lane for a lovely surprise. 586 Photograph by Josef M ah ' inside and out Fae Paulsen Thomas Dear Sister: The unpacking is finished at last, and things are in some semblance of order, so I have a few free moments to catch up on my letter writing. I wish I might truly share with you my feelings on being home again, although it hasn't really worked out the way I had planned. Remember? I was going to return home rich and famous, and dazzle the whole town with my charming personality and money — especially my money. I was going to give Ray (who always said he would almost crawl on his hands and knees to see a World Series game) a season's pass for the best seat in the ball park. With television, he already has that now. I was going to buy Lu a Stradivarius violin so he could play the sweetest music in the world. And now that I'm home again, I find he already plays the sweetest music in the world on his old violin. I was going to give the ward enough money to build a beautiful new chapel. I guess they got tired of waiting for me, because they have already built one without my money. I was going to use my influence os (which would be great) to get the dam built that would bring water in great abundance to this little valley — the dam folks spoke of when Mama was a girl, the dam they dreamed of when Greatuncle Frank was just a boy. Well, someone else had the influence, and the Government is building the dam right now. And this is what has brought us home again. I'm neither rich nor famous. The things I wished for are already here — maybe most of them always have been. I can't bring the people here anything but my memories and my love. Last Sunday when we went to church, I got just a tiny glimpse of what celestial glory may be like. We have lived in many different wards in the Church. We always know that the people will be wonderful, but there is always that first time in a new place when you walk in just hoping for one familiar face! Last Sunday as we opened the door to the chapel, the people on the back rows and those who were standing near the door turned to look at us, as people do. Their welcome smiles were the ones they would have given to any stranger who came in. Then, as they recognized us, they Our hands little Just a ( T, put the; around y was, but, The 0 a saint, they Said, "T don't know your name, byt I know you're Julia's 1 did Io Tl How we © ve your mother Stove as She pags they fresh ""SS8€s with the Ulter, the Mush dj Naught like He has My own | Beautify) Zi dropped hay do Mountain home, Cows who a on for me | does the mi You smell ¢ ushed Open the € steam rising from elr backs and Mingling With the, scent of the h little calf Nn the arom aS One old friend to another. M Writing We dressed hurried|y, I' this late at night ering that "N While | listen to the "Cricket Choir." Do 1 remem- 0 on € Comes to the 589 = And Relief Society Magazines) Stacks and stacks of them. I alWays read the Continued Stories In the Magazine I have really piece of white satin that looks as if it came from a wedding dress. There is also a little notebook with all of our birthdays entered. It was kept right up to date until 1947, when mother passed away. There is a little notation: "Pine trees planted today, October 9th, 1909." Some of our Great-uncle Ole's things are here, too, also some of his sister's keepsakes. An old cookbook dated 1879, a gift to her before she was married. It makes me feel real close to her when I see all of the little clippings and recipes stuck in between the pages. I tried her recipe for hand lotion, and my hands feel as soft as a baby's. Greatgrandma Caroline's Doctor Book is here, too. It is also dated 1879 and contains everything from caring for a speck in the eye to laying out the dead. Let me quote just a bit from the chapter on Tonic Medicines: Excellent results are frequently obtained by changing from one tonic to another when the first one fails or has ceased to do any good. Uncle Ole's graduation from the Teacher's Institute in 1886 is substantiated by a certificate signed by Karl G. Maeser, James kK. Talmage, and George H. Brimhall. Also his marriage certificate to Aunt Mary Ann, signed in 1888 by Daniel H. Wells, and his missionary certificate signed in 1891 by Wilford Woodruff, George Q. Cannon, and Joseph F. Smith. The letters, letters, letters! One telling of the death of his little son, and another written to Grandma telling of the passing of his very young wife, Mary Ann. I didn't know until now that THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT Uncle Ole had any children of his own. Here is the telegram Greatgrandma sent him to inform him of the death of his sister, our grandmother, when Mama was born. There is also a child's handsewed velvet waist, with rows and rows of tiny tucks, and a little pair of shoes like those on display at the Beehive House in Salt Lake City. I must see if they can be placed somewhere like that so others can enjoy them, too. I can hardly bear to have Ted repair the doorstep, although I know it must be done. The hollow is so deep now that the cold air comes in under the door, and the rains collect there as if it were a cup. The pine trees have all been cut down except the one by the west door. The old barn is sagging dangerously, and the town beautification committee says we must pull it down. But the lovely old house is still snug and warm after nearly ninety years. Greatgrandpa built the home for his wife Amelia and their two small babies. Mama was born here, as were you and Paul. On my wedding day in 1946, we helped our greatgrandparents to celebrate their seventieth wedding anniversary right here in the parlor. Lainie was married here. Alma was carried from here for the last time on the shoulders of six of his army comrades to the little chapel just down the street... The house seems to vibrate with memories.. ©. I am part of the house, and it is part of me. We belong together, and I am truly home again!; With love, your sister 591 = = Phetogsah tu Loretta adds raindrops to the house picture drawn by an older friend. — Qe a= g '* 4 IAW RIIUGTU Celia Larsen Luce @ Parents spend great sums of money for educational toys, yet often ignore one of the cheapest and best —a blackboard. At least it is one of the cheapest if you are willing to make your own. This is easier than most folks think. All you really need is a smooth surface and some blackboard paint. Of course, moldings make a nicer finished product. A blackboard painted on the wall is best, as there is no bother with an easel and no storage problem. The blackboard can fit into the decorative scheme of your family room, kitchen, or a child's bedroom, for the paints come in colors other than black and green. Check with your paint dealer far enough ahead so he can order the color you wish. Black is easiest to find and best for most purposes. The wall surface must be smooth. Run your hand over the wall to check this. If you have a wall of painted plasterboard you should have no trouble. Masonite will supply a smooth surface if your walls are not smooth. If you are renting, perhaps you would prefer a masonite blackboard that could be hung on the wall and taken with you when you move. It is much easier to make and use than an easel blackboard. Make your blackboard large enough. Tiny children use only the 592 THE HOME—INSIDE AND OuT 593 Quantity Cooking for Relief Society Functions (In Three Parts) Part | - Main Dishes, Casseroles, and Meats Rosa Shurtz ®@ Quantity cooking presents special problems in food handling, but improved modern processes of canning, freezing, and packing foods are great time and labor savers for inexperienced cooks. Costs of commercially prepared food are about the same as homemade when time and labor are counted. Buying good grade, ready-prepared main ingredients, experimenting with seasonings, adding fresh or home-prepared products to complete the dish, produce the good home-cooked flavor that is the main appeal of bazaars and fund-raising dinners.. Wholesale houses will sell to an organization, and there are also supply houses for restaurants, cafes, and other institutions in all large cities, where quantity purchases may be made. The butcher will usually quote restaurant prices on meats and will bone and slice the meat. Many bakers and restaurants will roast turkeys and other meats if your facilities are not adequate. Some bakers will order doughnut, cake, gingerbread, and other prepared mixes in bulk, from their own suppliers for an organization. If facilities and space for quantity cooking are limited, instant mashed potatoes are a time and nerve saver. Some products taste exactly what they are - "dehydrated potatoes," but home testing with small packages will lead you to the best. The freezer is the right hand of the fund-raising dinner cooks. Uniced cakes, baked piecrusts, rolls, bread, and cookies can be made ahead and frozen, saving last-minute rush. Leftover meats can be cooled, diced, and covered with either leftover gravy or instant bouillon dissolved in water, frozen, and used another time for salads or casseroles. MEAT LOAF (50 Servings) 314 Ibs. Ham, ground 2 large onions, finely minced 314 Ibs. Lean pork, ground 14, tsp. Pepper 31% Ibs.. Veal, ground 2 tsp. Dry mustard 6 c. Finely crushed prepared 2 tsp. Accent stuffing mix lf needed, salt to taste 1 qt. Warm water 2 large family-size cans 8 eggs, beaten tomato soup 594 THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT Mix all ingredients, except tomato soup, together thoroughly. Shape into loaves and place in well-greased pans. Bake 45 minutes in 325° oven. Pour tomato soup over loaves, cover with silver foil, and bake 114 hours longer. Let stand for 5 to 15 minutes before slicing. Serve with either of the following:; GRAVY 8 c. Beef gravy 3 cans mushroom steak sauce 1 can tomato soup Mix together and bring to boil. Beef gravy can be made from instant beef bouillon. Yield: 14 c. Per serving CREAM SAUCE 4 c. Creamed cottage cheese 1 tsp. Sugar 2 2/3 tbsp. Prepared horseradish 114 c. Cream, whipped 1 tsp. Prepared mustard Beat cottage cheese well with wire whisk, add seasoning, salt to taste. Fold in whipped cream. C\UIlhrcT AND CAIID MEAT { ALIC ww he ) (50 Servings) 8 Ibs. Lean hamburger 4 c. Soy sauce 2 Ibs. Sausage 12 eggs, slightly beaten 3 tsp. Accent 2 tbsp. Salt 4 cans bean sprouts, chopped fine 5 c. Finely crushed prepared 6 bunches green onions, stuffing mix chopped fine (use tops) cornstarch oil Mix all ingredients, except cornstarch, thoroughly. Roll into balls, roll balls in cornstarch, and fry in oil until brown. Drain well. Cover with the following sauce and let simmer until they have a glazed appearance. May be served over rice. Variation: Leftover ham, ground, can be used. SAUCE 2 c. White vinegar 1 tbsp. Ginger 4 c. Pineapple juice lf, tsp. Salt 1%. C. Sugar 1 c. Cornstarch 6 tsp. Instant beef bouillon 2 c. Cold water 4 c. Hot water Bring first seven ingredients to a boil. Dissolve cornstarch in cold water and add, stirring constantly. Cook until thick and clear. Add pepper or other seasonings, as desired. CRIITLIOC DAI CLIND Pw OVA od (50 Servings) First Mixture 34 c. Melted butter 25 pineapple slices (save juice) 2c. Brown sugar 21% qts. Ground ham Combine melted butter and brown sugar. Spread in bottom of three pans (16" by 10" by 2''). Arrange half slices of pineapple on this mixture and carefully add ground ham. 595 AUGUST 1965 Second Mixture 114 qts. Corn meal 4 eggs 114 qts. Sifted flour 114 qts. Milk 1 tbsp. Salt 14 c. Soft shortening 1/3 c. Baking powder Sift first four ingredients into mixing bowl. Add eggs, milk, and shortening. Mix at low speed until fairly smooth, about 14 minute. Do not overbeat. Pour over ham and bake at 425°, 25 to 30 minutes. Serve pineapple side up with sauce. SAUCE 8 c. Crushed pineapple 34, tsp. Salt 10 c. Pineapple juice 214 c. Cornstarch (add water as needed) 114 c. Water 114 c. Sugar Combine pineapple, juice, sugar, and salt. Bring to boil. Mix cornstarch and water, stir into hot pineapple mixture, and cook until clear and thick. Mustard sauce may be used, if desired. RARAMMAAC c (50 Servings, 1 pompom for each) 3 qts. Cooked rice 14, tsp. Pepper 3 c. Diced celery 2 tsp. Accent 6 tbsp. Flour 2 qts. Diced cooked turkey or chicken 3 c. Chopped walnuts 2 c. Melted butter 14, c. Minced green onions (use tops) 8 eggs, well beaten 2 tsp. Salt 6 c. Finely crushed dry bread crumbs 2 tsp. Poultry seasoning Combine rice, celery, flour, nuts, onions, salt, seasoning, and meat. Add melted butter and eggs to moisten. Chill. Shape into balls, using a No. 8 scoop. Roll in bread crumbs. Place on well-greased shallow pan and bake about 30 minutes or until crisp, at 425°. Serve with sauce made from cream of chicken soup, cream of mushroom soup, or instant chicken bouillon cubes. May be prepared ahead and freezes well. Mwrrer T ANATATA MPACCEDNIC \ (50 Servings) 2 no. 10 cans sweet potatoes 4 c. Sugar or 14, |b. Butter 10 Ibs. Sweet potatoes, cooked 1 tsp. Cinnamon 3 no. 214 cans halved apricots 14, tsp. Salt 8 c. Water (use apricot juice cornstarch dissolved in water, for part) as needed for thickening. Slice sweet potatoes into buttered pan. Add layers of apricots. Heat water and juice, sugar, butter, salt, and cinnamon to a boil and thicken with a paste of cornstarch and water. Pour over potatoes and bake about 35 minutes at 350°. Variations: Peeled, cored, sliced apples may be used instead of apricots, also pineapple tidbits or broken slices of pineapple and pineapple juice. Brown sugar may be used in place of white or maple syrup can be used to add maple flavor to apples and sweets. DUTCH SAUERKRAUT AND WIENERS (50 servings: 14 c. Sauerkraut and 2 wieners) 1 Ib. Diced bacon 2 c. Brown sugar 14% c. Finely chopped onion 14 c. Celery seed 2 no. 10 cans sauerkraut 100 wieners 1 pt. Diced apples 596 THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT Cook bacon until crisp. Pour off all but 14 cup fat. Saute onions until soft. Add all ingredients except wieners. Heat about 15 minutes, stirring. When hot. Add wieners and let simmer gently until wieners are heated through. If necessary, add a little hot water. P Vatatat Tie i PAPRRMATrC (50 Servings) 12 Ibs. Carrots - 3 c. Water 4 tsp. Salt Wash, peel, and slice carrots. Bring 3 c. Water and 4 tsp. Salt to boil, add carrots. Cook gently until done, but still crisp. SAUCE 1144 c. Butter 3 qts. Hot water 3 c. Sugar 2 c. Orange juice 34, c. Cornstarch 34, c. Lemon juice 2 tbsp. Salt 6 c. Toasted coconut Melt butter; add sugar, cornstarch, and salt to make smooth paste. Gradually stir in hot water and cook until clear and consistency of thin white sauce. Add orange juice and lemon juice, and fold in coconut. Serve over cooked carrots. Note: The sauce is also very good for sweet potatoes. TUNA LOAF 8 large (1214 oz. Cans) chunk tuna 4 tsp. Salt 8 tbsp. Lemon juice 2 tsp. Accent 16 tbsp. Grated onion 2 tsp. Pepper 2 c. Finely chopped green pepper 8 eggs, beaten 8 c. Grated cheddar cheese 5 14 c. Evaporated milk 12 c. Dry bread crumbs Break up tuna. Add lemon juice, onion, green pepper, cheese, crumbs, and seasonings. Mix milk and eggs, add to tuna, and mix well. Shape into loaves on well-greased pan. Bake 35 minutes at 350° until firm and lightly browned. Serve hot with lemon or a sauce made of cream of mushroom soup. Jean Crosse Hansen I have found most useful a discarded glass "caster cup" 214 inches in diameter at the bottom (such as we used to put under the legs of the furniture) as a receptacle for pins when I am cutting out a garment. It holds down the tissue paper pattern at a critical point, and slides easily on the cloth. I also use the cup when I am working with papers to be filed, such as clippings, recipes, and carbon copies of business letters. It serves both as paperweight and pin tray. It is handy as a stand-in for a candlestick. I light a candle, dribble a few drops of melted wax into the cup, and press the bottom of the candle down into the cup. It stays. 597 Jennette T. Chamberlain Makes Plain and Fancy Quilts Jennette Thomas Chamberlain of Cedar Valley, Lehi Stake, Utah, is an expert in many varieties of handwork. Her acquaintance with needles and thread and crochet hooks began in her girlhood days when she lived in the mining towns of Sunshine, Mercur, and Cedar Valley. She has made hundreds of quilts for her children, grandchildren, friends, neighbors, and relatives. She has made patch quilts, pieced quilts, appliqued quilts, and has tied heavy quilts for the use of ranchers and hunters. She has made hundreds of embroidered, crocheted, and knitted articles. She learned in the early years of her marriage that the true homemaker can create beauty in any place, and under difficult circumstances. She prizes her flowers, indoors and out, and she raises a small vegetable garden each year. She takes a keen interest in genealogy, and has helped many of her friends to make accurate records and to do temple work. She loves Relief Society and has been a visiting teacher for fifty years. Mrs. Chamberlain is the mother of fourteen children, six of whom are living, She proudly counts her grandchildren at forty, with eighty-six great-grandchildren and twelve great-great-grandchildren, and seven step-grandchildren. 595 Shirley Thulin Chapter 4 Synopsis: Joan Morgan, superintendent of nurses at Hillcrest Hospital, encourages Tom, a young paralyzed patient, to think of the things that he will be able to do, and to plan for his future. Joan is criticized for this attitude. The hospital administrator, Dr. Niles, appears to be a stern and withdrawn person, and Joan wonders what he is really like. Kathy, who is a niece of Dr. Niles, invites Joan to spend a week end at the family farm. ® Joan settled back in the leather seat and felt the ripple of excitement go through the atmosphere inside the bus. People going someplace, she thought, are interesting. She looked around her. Nearly everyone was_ smiling, even Kathy, though the feeling between her and Joan was still not what it had been the first day she had asked Joan to come home with her for the week end. "Your folks know I'm coming?" Joan asked. "Yes, I called them yesterday. I can just see Mom. She's been cooking and cleaning all day." "Oh, I hope she doesn't go to too much bother."' "Don't worry, she loves it. A week-end guest keeps her going all the rest of the month. Gives her something to think about." "T can't wait to meet her." "T hope you won't be bored. There isn't much to do just talk, and ride horses, maybe." "T']1 just love it. I've missed the farm." ""You've lived on a farm?" "Most of my life." "I'd never have known you're so so different from the farm folks I know." Kathy reddened a little, as if she wished she hadn't said that, and Joan decided to pretend not to notice. Mrs. Kirk was just about as Joan had pictured her. A lot like Kathy, only taller and with the same dark eyes. There were laugh wrinkles in her face and around her eyes, and she gave Kathy a big hus as though she hadn't seen her for months instead of only a week. Mr. Kirk was brown and tall. He was friendly, too. The drive from the station to their farm took only a few moments, and they didn't get a chance to say much. Joan felt as if she'd always known these people. "Where are the children?" she 599 AUGUST 1965 asked as they pulled up to the front gate. "There wasn't room to bring them all, so we left them home," Mr. Kirk explained. "Get ready for the attack," Kathy warned Joan. No sooner had she: said it than children seemed to appear from every direction, all talking at once and nearly taking Kathy apart with affection. "Take it easy kids. Hey, I want you to meet my friend." Joan looked at each child as Kathy recited names and ages. 'Barbara is fourteen, and Richard twelve, Bonnie ten, Lisa nine, and little Joey six." The others said "Hello" or "Hi" as they were introduced, but Joey smiled with a special smile and his eyes sparkled. "You're pretty," he said, "want to see my duck? Pester had some babies. Want to see?' "Oh, not now, Joey let Joan come in and put her things away, Kathy told him. "Besides, it's too dark," his mother reminded. And Joan realized that it was dusk, though she hadn't noticed before. Joey took Joan's hand and stayed near her all through the evening meal and right up until he was sent to bed. "In the morning will you come and see Pester?" he asked. "TI surely will, Joey." Joan watched him follow the other children through the doorway, and there was a special feeling inside her. THE evening passed all too soon; Mr. And Mrs. Kirk were interesting. The conversation was stimulating, and just before Kathy showed Joan to her room, 600 they went for a walk to the barnyard to check the water trough. "Richard forgets to fill it sometimes," Mrs. Kirk explained, but Kathy laughed. "She only wanted you to have an excuse to be outdoors and see our country nights," Mr. Kirk explained. "I'm glad," Joan said, and she really was. The night was so still and so gentle, it felt as if it were wrapping its arms around her. She almost had forgotten how big and bright a country moon could get. "It's so lovely." She stood by the fence post and looked up, and felt the breeze touch her. "Now you see why I come every week end?" Kathy asked. Joan shivered. She suddenly felt a chill go through her. "'Let's go inside," she said. Joan couldn't believe her ears. She was awakened by shouts of "Wake up, Joan, it's morning and you said you'd come see Pester."' She opened her eyes and could barely see the outline of Joey against the faint light of the window. "Joey my goodness it's still night time," she said. "No, it's morning, see." He pulled the blind so hard it flipped up and around and around. The room didn't look much lighter with the blind up than it did before. "Tell you what," she said. "You come in my bed until it's light enough to see Pester. Besides, the ducks will still be asleep, and they won't like it if we wake them up so early." Joey slipped into the bed beside Joan and promptly fell asleep. But Joan didn't sleep any more that morning. The nearness of the child brought a contentment to her that she had never felt before. Everything was so still and peaceful. I can't do it, she told herself. I can't tell Kathy to stay at the hospital, not even for one week end. Then she smiled. Kathy's strategy won out, she thought. She knew I'd give in if she could get me to come here with her. THE visit to Pester and her baby ducks turned out to be a visit to every animal on the farm, accompanied by every child in the family, and all before breakfast. My, such chatter and such excitement! It wore Joan out, but she loved every minute of it. By the time they reached the house, she was more than ready for the big old-fashioned farm breakfast. "Did they walk your legs off?" Mrs. Kirk asked. "Almost, but it was fun, and I now know every animal's first name." "Tl bet you do," laughed Kathy. "T'll bet you'll never want to come back again." "On the contrary." Joan looked right at Kathy. "T'll be envying you every week end." Kathy looked quickly at her mother, then back at Joan. "Every week end?" she asked. "She can come home, like always?" Mrs. Kirk was looking at Joan, too. "Well " Joan smiled. "It's as Kathy said, if no one else seems to mind, why should I?" "Oh, Joan."' Kathy's voice was soft, and her eyes told what she couldn't find the words to say. The evening shades were being RING AROUND HER HEART drawn on a wonderful day when a gentle rapping at the door brought Mr. Kirk to his feet. He opened the door and a tiny woman came in. She was wearing a hat, the kind made of shiny black straw, on her' white, straight hair and Joan could tell she didn't always wear a hat, only when she went someplace special. "Oh, Addie," Mrs. Kirk went over to her and gave her a hug. "How was he today?" "Bertha he he's." "Here, sit down, Addie," Mr. Kirk offered a chair. 'How is Tom?" "He isn't as good as he was last week. He... I don't know. Something has happened. He wouldn't 'hardly talk to me. Oh, Bertha." Kathy glanced quickly at Joan. "Mrs. Aines, this is Miss Morgan. She's a nurse... I mean, she's the head nurse at Hillcrest. Joan, this is Mrs. Aines, Tom's mother." "Oh, Mrs. Aines, I'm glad to know you. I've been working with Tom. He's going to be fine." "Going to be fine?"' Mrs. Aines looked from Joan to Kathy and back again. "How can you say that? His legs they've all told us he'll never be able to walk again." "They're right. He may never again have the use of his legs, but with braces and." "Braces?"' Mrs. Aines stood up. "What good are legs in braces on a farm?" "Please, Mrs. Aines. Try to understand. I was reared on a farm. I know what a rugged life all the chores... But believe me, Tom could do an awful lot. There are ways now. He could go 601 AUGUST 1965 to school and learn to take care of the business end or he."' "Oh, Joan!"' Kathy's eyes were flashing. "How could you? Can't you see she's upset?" "I. Don't mean to upset her. I would be encouraged if I had a son in Tom's condition and someone told me." "But you don't have. You are only guessing and you are wrong, Joan," Kathy told her. "Now, now " Mr. Kirk said. "It's true, they do some marvelous things nowadays. And we have to have faith. We have to keep hoping." "You must be the nurse Tom was telling me about." Mrs. Aines looked at Joan. ''Doctor Desmond and all are so wonderful, and now you have done a lot of harm to Tom." 'No, I have made him begin to think. It will take time, but he soon will begin to be dissatisfied with lying in a_ hospital bed." "Last week he was talking about coming home. Now he doesn't want to." Mrs. Aines began to cry. "He doesn't want to come home now, and I want him where I can tend to him where I can be close to him." "Now, now, Addie."" Mrs. Kirk put her arms around her shoulders. "Everything will be all right, you'll see." "But it's been so long. The others aren't big enough to do much and I needed Tom so since Hal." Joan slipped out of the room. Oh, if only I could make them see, she thought. She went out the back door and walked down to the water trough. She felt the 602 night again, but it was different from last night. It wasn't gentle and friendly. It held a thousand accusing fingers which pointed at her. Even the face in the moon seemed to frown at her. But I'm right, I know I am, she told herself. "Joan!" it was Kathy coming from the house. "Over here," she answered. "Oh, Joan, I've got to talk to you." "Don't try to tell me to stop encouraging Tom," she said, "'because I am progressing with him. It doesn't look like it yet, Kathy, but I really am." "T don't know why I've always liked you, Joan. Even when you first came to the hospital and everyone was saying how reserved and unfriendly you were, I defended you. But now, oh, Joan, you have to have compassion. You have to have sympathy. Patients respond to a sympathetic heart. You have a what was it Dean said? Oh, yes. He said you have a ring around your heart." JOAN was stunned as she thought, so everyone really does think I am mean. "Kathy, I know I'm not a lot older than you are, but I've lived through much more. You see, in the other hospital in Elmdale, there were friends and neighbors and loved ones. For ten years I saw them be hurt, and crippled, and die, and each time a little of me was hurt and crippled, too. "Then Scott, my neighbor, was hurt in a skiing accident. Scott was very special to me, Kathy. I was with his mother the night he was born. She was alone but for me. The there fast enough an band was at work. Years old, and I decided then that J wanted to be a nurse. "T tended Scott all the time. If taught him to walk, and we went y. He would listen handle it. He had Scott out of that bed in no time. After that Scott learned to drive 2 tractor an nd..- then he was stricken with a little insignificant — imagine, Kathy, after all that, he died of a ruptured appendix! But Kathy. He had lived again." all this made you S° _, and I was in love. I was 1 love and let it show. Front of the house started up and Joan and Kathy Mrs. Aines was leaving. Back tonight," "Nonsense," Mr. Kirk told her. "Of course not, dear," Mrs. Kirk said. "You must not ~ that." "Addie was upset, of course, of the summer. He may even be helping with the haying!" you re right, Joan," Mrs. Kirk said. "She really needs him..- all those kids to manage! She always did count on that boy an awtully lot." "And that's what I'm depending on to help him fight his way came all too soon. "You must come back again real soon, Joan," Mrs. Kirk in- "J will," Joan promised. "Next Friday," Joey decided. "No, not next Friday, Joey," all Pester's ducks after you and you have "Oh, Joey, you re impossible," Kathy told him. She turned and leaned down, and all her reserve melted away for just a moment as she felt the little arms warm ground her neck. (To be continue Relief Society Activities pee PR ee oh et Bee hope] tif ger np es! D: a Smithfield Stake (Utah) Presents ''Mother's Sewing Machine'' May 1965 Front row, left to right: Gayleen and LaDawn Eppich; Elaine Goodey and son Tim; Nancy Smith; Marie Goodey; Annie Peterson, sewing instructor; Reta B. Spackman, stake work meeting leader. Back row, left to right: Evelyn M. Eppich; Ila Bradshaw; Carol Noble; Bonnie Gittens; Lorraine T. Snelgrove; Sybil Packer, who sang a clever song to correlate with the narration; Myrl E. Rich, a ward work counselor; Arlene T. Rigby; Kay Loosle; Peggy Salisbury; Tellma G. Thompson, Stake Work Counselor. Selena G. Low, President, Smithfield Stake Relief Society, reports: "The stake leaders, recognizing the need for helping the sisters to learn better thrift practices, have encouraged sewing schools to be conducted in the wards under the direction of Sister Spackman, with Sister Peterson instructing the ward sewing instructors in the leadership meetings. The sisters participating in the classes have expressed joy and satisfaction in learning better methods of sewing. "Ward and stake leaders enjoyed an inspirational presentation 'Mother's Sewing Machine' in a stake leadership meeting in May. Many of the fashions which had been created as a result of the sewing classes were modeled by the ward instructors and others." All matenal subrutted far publicatien inp this deprartinent sland iw eet through the stake Relef Seciety presmients or mission Meliet Mewrely pres idents er supervisors. And should he addressed to the Pitituriat Teopuae trent, Relief Sesiety Magazine, 78 North Alain Salt Lake (st Lteh | Li ew regulations etvrrniv the submittal of Notes fT pom 1 nbs 1964 i "Charter Flight—Around the World in Eighty Minutes' April 9, 1965 Betsy Dingson, Brooklyn Branch, stands in the Scandinavian booth. She served meat balls and demonstrated knitting. Lyle Paine, President, New York Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Through the coordinated effort of the New York Stake Relief Society board, directed by Elizabeth Merrill, stake work meeting leader, a very enjoyable and successful evening, attended by some 550 members, husbands, and friends of Relief Society was held. Invitations were sent to every sister in the stake to 'A Charter Flight—Around the World in Eighty Minutes.' "The guests were greeted by Relief Society sisters costumed as airline hostesses and were directed to departure gates on the lower level of the building, where they viewed eye-catching displays and demonstrations from ten countries arranged by the wards and branches. Tempting food, representative of the various countries, was served. 'In Flight' entertainment began at 8:30 in the evening in the cultural hall, where a program written and staged by Rae Rita Graham, Isobel Marker, and Barbara Scowcroft was presented. A fashion show followed, with Germaine d'Evegné and Barbara Scowcroft as commentators. Seventy women modeled their own creations of: hats and dresses for all occasions." 605 Mission Front row, t to right Irst Counselor. E€cond TOW, left to right: ara Cas Se; Francis Bowme: ack row, left to right: Illene Walder nn Welker, Preside t; En ez Elizabeth M. Baj » forme u ociety, MOPOnts: "<A full Relief i Organized Sisters, are additio nne Taylor is the new elief Societ J First Couns ack row, oria Barne elo Jean N elson. ¥; Rosa Le » left to right: r; Florence U tle left to right: Cle y; NOTEs FROM THE FIELD AUGUST 1965 South Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) Spring Fashion Show April 16, 1965 Front row, left to right: Lorri Chandler; Peggy Clements; Pamela Clements; Teresa Stosich. Second row, left to right: Eunice Pratt; Mary Lee Jones; Blanch Larsen; Verla Hickman, Work Counselor; Lola Albaugh, Education Counselor; Fern McClellan, President, South Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society. Third row, left to right: Nita Palmer; Margaret Thomas; Gertrude Sorenson; Shawna Strobel. Sister McClellan reports: " 'Spring Fantasy,' a lovely fashion show and musical program, was presented April 16th. This was the culmination of a sewing program in which stake instruction was given in tailoring and basic sewing to the sisters. Classes were held weekly for six weeks. Over this period beautiful coats, suits, and dresses materialized for many mothers and daughters, and even suits for little boys. Stake instructors were Shawna Strobel, Gertrude Sorenson, and Mary Lee Jones. Over eighty models displayed the finished articles." Grant Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Quarterly Conference April 18, 1965 Standing in the back row, at the left: Sylva Luck, chorister; and at the right: Wilma Packer, organist. Front row, seated, beginning eighth from the left: Afton C. Harrop, former first counselor; Miriam C. Sims, First Counselor: Vera B. Kocherhans, President; Hazel C. Mallory, Second Counselor; Hulda P. Young, General SecretaryTreasurer of Relief Society. Sister Kocherhans reports: "The Singing Mothers were outstanding in their performance, and we were very proud. We were pleased with the presence of Sister Young. She gave us much help, and we did appreciate her sweet spirit. It has been our privilege to furnish music twice this past year at stake conference. Ninety sisters participated at the April conference." South African Mission, First Local Relief Society Presidency Sustained Left to right: Dorothy Dell, Secretary-Treasurer; Muriel Tauté, Counselor; Eunice L. Snow; Rose Calteaux, Counselor; Anna M. De Wet, President; Valerie Snyman, music director. Verda L. Snow, Supervisor, South African Mission Relief Society, reports: "The South African Mission Relief Society made history recently. A local member was sustained as the president of the mission organization. Accepting the call was Anna M. De Wet of Johannesburg. Her counselors are Rose Calteaux and Muriel Tauté. History was made in that this is the first time since the missionaries landed in 1853 that the leadership of the mission Relief Society has been placed in the hands of local membership. The new president has already visited many of the branches, giving aid and encouragement to the sisters. The South African Mission covers an area the size of the continental United States. This means that the president will have many miles to traverse in visiting the sisters of the mission. The art of quilting will be introduced. Sister Eunice L. Snow demonstrated to the leaders of the Society 'the how of quilting,' and they are now ready to take the art to the branches." 608 AUGUST 1965 Boise Stake (Idaho) ''Parade of Presidents' at Commemoration of the Organization of Relief Society March 8, 1965 Representing the nine general presidents of Relief Society since its organization, are the ward theology class leaders. Front row, left to right: Margaret Higley as Emma Smith; Mable Nokes as Clarissa S. Williams; Thelma Mitchell as Eliza R. Snow; Barbara Johns as Zina D. H. Young; LaVonne Hawkins as Bathsheba W. Smith; Jane Hipwell as Emmeline B. Wells. Back row, left to right: Betty Roberts as Louise Y. Robison; Carol R. Flake, stake theology class leader; Barbara Browning as Amy Brown Lyman; Glenna Cutler as Belle S. Spafford. LaVon F. Hadley, President, Boise Stake Relief Society, reports: "At our March leadership meeting, in commemoration of the anniversary of Relief Society, stake theology leader Carol R. Flake presented these sisters during the reading of a poem 'Parade of Presidents,' written by her mother, the late Irene K. Read. Following the presentation was a brief address 'Our Heritage as Relief Society Sisters,' by President Hadley, and the song 'One Hundred Thousand Strong,' by a stake Singing Mothers group under the direction of stake chorister Julie Atkinson and stake organist Collette Howard." 610 no fighting on, the wrong Side ie telestia] glory. The € are th (Conferene Report, Oct ber 1913 Sons of Perdition, ( £TSes 23-24 ) Page 117) Perdi lOn is also kno as a kingdom b of "no glory." THE EARTH; (Verse 24 ) The Tevelation Continues in Pointing Out that the earth has SPIRITUAL — 4n eterna] estiny as wel] aS does It requires ™ revelation Man. [t IS decre dt at the faith. To Interp et n erstand that it Would be the habitation For a withstanding they die, they of the morta] tabernacles for the also shall rise 48ain, a Spiritual body = C 88: J: e: Measure of Its Creation jt Would He Said that the body is Sown a also become 4 Celestia] kingdom, natural bo » but it is Taised g:18-20, y. In order we may full Because Paul; this gs € letter understand Position in Said that "flesh and bloo cannot ~ eternal worlds llowing the Inherit the kingdom of od" esurrectio » IS to be q termined verse 50), it Is beliey d by Some he |] e Y; We are Innot of our faith hat the body is structed as fol] not actually > sed from the ETave, but that it jis the spirit of That bodies ho are Celestia] man tha revived resurrect Ingdom Possegg [the earth] ed. Is true th "fles and — it, oo ~ a fd fecttant blood" (mo tals) cannot Inherit intent are they Sanctifieg the kingdoms assigned resurrect. Ed beings, The Tesurrection of And they Who are not Sanctified Which we Shal] Partake wil] be e | I 1 icy inherit another kingdom, even that of a:: a terrestrial] Kingdom, Or that of a substance. (P. Alippians 3:20-21;; ingdo.: Amulek Put it coming Spiritual] and j (Alma 11:45). In Man will no The Prophet Joseph Smith Was emphatic IN mainta; n. | the Tesurrection Wwe no fundamenta] Prin- 4 human System Ver goes into another jn this € World to come; J Care N to the four f heaven, yet the Particles body Was As Tesurrected beings we shal] ave perfect bodies he dis. Figurement, f the flesh Will be removed Question jg Sometime raised to Whethe not there Will be difference In the resur rection h tween the p Tson who l€s in y ung adulthood Nd the One wh e Mortality at an advanced age. The Scriptures do Not speak expressly ¢ his ques tion, but Only of th Perfecteq body (Alma 11:49. » 40:23. D&C 88:23 ) Howeve, President Joseph F mith sa In the €surrection of the dead the child th aS buried IN its Infancy il] Come up Mm the fo c hat it will evelo til it re hes the ful] Measure Of the Status f its Spirit, ale (Im to Perfection will come Testitution. But the Spirit w tinue to expand an body after + As Concerning the resurrection, I will Merely Say that al] men will come 8rave I AUGUST 1965 be "added unto their stature one cubit," neither taken from it; all will be raised by the power of God, having spirit in their bodies, and not blood (DHC IV:555). KINGDOMS OF THE RESURRECTION As discussed in earlier lessons, each person will receive the reward which he has earned in the earth life. (Lesson 65, Relief Society Magazine, July 1965; Lesson 58, Relief Society Magazine, August 1964). In summary, we may quote President George Q. Cannon:... The Lord has shown to us that there are differences of rewards. Some of his children will attain to what is called celestial glory. Others of his children will not have faith enough nor exercise their agency in the direction to gain that glory; but they will gain terrestrial glory. There are others that will not progress that far; they will feel reluctant to obey the laws that pertain to the terrestrial, and they will obtain telestial glory. There are still others that will not attain even to the telestial glory. Why is it that there are these differences? Is it because God has chosen some of us for the telestial glory, some of us for the terrestrial glory, and some of us for the celestial glory? No, there is no such predestination as this. We are all born with our free agency; with the power within ourselves, aided by the blessings of God, to attain unto the highest glory. How shall we attain unto the highest glory? There is only one way, and that is by observing the highest laws. The highest laws, when obeyed, bring as a reward the highest glory; and the man or woman who expects to attain to the highest glory without obeying these laws, deceives himself or herself. It cannot be done. If I rise above the telestial glory, I must obey a law that will lift me above that. If I rise to the terrestrial glory, it will be by obeying terrestrial law. If I do not obey laws higher than that, I cannot attain to a higher glory. 614 I want to impress upon you... That our exaltation, our future glory, depends entirely upon our obedience to law. We should not lose sight of this (Conference Report, April 1900, page 54). The foregoing discussion is in harmony. With the "Olive Leaf" revelation where it is also indicated that those who become sons of perdition will be resurrected _and return to that place for which they have prepared themselves by disobedience (D&C 88: 29-32.) It is by obedience to God's law —eternal law—that blessings come and also by disobedience, a loss of one's potential blessing. And again, verily I say unto you, that which is governed by law is also preserved by law and perfected and sanctified by the same. That which breaketh a law, and abideth not by law, but seeketh to become a law unto itself, and willeth to abide in sin, and altogether abideth in sin, cannot be sanctified by law, neither by mercy, justice, nor judgment. Therefore, they must remain filthy still (Verses 34-35). THE RESURRECTION, WHEN? The Lord has revealed that every person who has lived upon the earth will receive a resurrection. This means both the "just and unjust" (Acts 24:15; see also Rev. 20:13, I Cor. 15:21-22). By reason of the transgression of Adam, death entered the world, and through the atonement of Jesus Christ, all mankind will be redeemed from this temporal death. There is no exception. (2 Nephi 9:6-7, 12-13; Alma 12: 16-18.) The general scriptural pronouncement is that there is a time for the righteous and a time for the unrighteous to be raised from the grave. (Rev. 20:5, 12-13; D&C 29:22-26.) There will be two general resurrections—the first, which is known as the "just," and the second, which is named the "unjust." A modern revelation, however, teaches us that these general classifications should be separated into two parts each. (D&C 88:97-102.) This revelation states that each of these resurrections, four in number, will be heralded by the sounding of an angel's trump. The first trump is at the Savior's second coming. And they who have slept in their graves shall come forth, for their graves shall be opened; and they also shall be caught up to meet him in the midst of the pillar of heaven— They are Christ's, the first fruits, they who shall descend with him first, and they who are on the earth and in their graves, who are first caught up to meet him; and all this by the voice of the sounding of the trump of the angel of God (D&C 88:97-98). It is recorded in scripture (Matt. 27:51-53 and 3 Nephi 23: 9-10) that many souls arose from the dead at the time of the Savior's resurrection. This, however, did not commence what is known to us as the first resurrection. This is clarified by President Joseph Fielding Smith in the following quotations: While there was a general resurrection of the righteous at the time Christ arose from the dead, it is customary for us to speak of the resurrection of the righteous at the Second Coming of Christ as the first resurrection (Doctrines of Salvation, Vol. II, page 295). It is the opinion of some that the resurrection is going on all the time LESSON DEPARTMENT now, but this is purely speculation without warrant in the scriptures. It is true that the Lord has power to call forth any person or persons from the dead, as he may desire, especially if they have a mission to perform which would require their resurrection. For example, we have the cases of Peter, James, and Moroni.. We are given to understand that the first resurrection yet future, which means the coming forth of the righteous, will take place at one particular time, which is when our Savior shall appear in the clouds of heaven, when he shall return to reign (Ibid., page 299). The second trump is sounded after the resurrection of the saints. The length of time between these two events is not revealed. Jesus' coming marks the beginning of the millennium, therefore, the resurrection of terrestrial beings occurs after the millennium begins: And after this another angel shall sound, which is the second trump; and then cometh the redemption of those who are Christ's at his coming; who have received their part in that prison which is prepared for them, that they might receive the gospel, and be judged according to men in the flesh (D&C 88:99). Thus ends the first general resurrection, except as that resurrection will continue into the millennium until all the worthy or honorable dead have received this blessing. At the end of the thousand years of peace and righteousness, the second general resurrection will begin with telestial beings rising from their graves: And again, another trump shall sound, which is the third trump; and then come the spirits of men who are to be judged, and are found under condemnation; 615 AUGUST 1965 And these are the rest of the dead: and 1 1 again, until the end of the (Verses 100-101). Without the time interval being indicated, the last part of the last, or second resurrection, that of the sons of Perdition, is described as follows: And another trump shall sound, which is the fourth trump, Saying: There are found among those who are to remain until that great and last day, even the end, who Shall remain filthy stil] (Verse 102). VISIONS OF THE RESURRECTION We have the testimonies of Latter-day prophets concerning the resurrection, These testimonies bring to the Saint an awareness, born of the Spirit, that the resurrection is 4 reality, and that men will] come forth from their graves as they were laid down. The Prophet Joseph Smith stated: relate what I have seen IN vision in relation to this interesting theme? Those who have died In Jesus Christ fruition of joy when they come forth, which they Possessed or anticipated to each other, "My father, my son, my mother, my daughter, my brother, my sister." And when the voice calls brother, My sister; and when they are by my side, I embrace them and they me 616 All your losses will be made up to More painful: to me are the thoughts of annihilation than death. If J have expectation of seeing my friends in the morning of the resurGod has revealed His Son from the hearts, that we may even here begin to enjoy that which shall be in full hereafter ( Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pp. 295-296). After laboring in that part (MemDhis, Tennessee) for a length of time, I received a letter from Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, in which they requested me to Stay in that country and take charge of the churches that promised me many things, and said I where there was a sofa, to pray alone. I felt full of joy and rejoicing at the promises God had made to me through the Prophet. While I was upon my knees praying, my room was filled with light. I looked and a messenger stood by my side. I arose, and this personage told me he had come to instruct me. He presented before me a panorama. He told me he wanted me to see with my eye and understand with my mind what was coming to pass in the earth before the coming of the Son of Man. He commenced with what the revelations say about the sun being turned to darkness, the moon to blood, and these stars falling from heaven. Those things were all presented to me one after another, as they will be, I suppose, when they are manifest before the coming of the Son of Man. Then he showed me the resurrection of the dead—what is termed the first and second resurrection. In the first resurrection I saw no graves nor anyone raised from the grave. I saw legions of celestial beings, men and women who had received the gospel all clothed in white robes. In the form they were presented to me, they had already been raised from the grave. After this he showed me what LESSON DEPARTMENT is termed the second resurrection. Vast fields of graves were before me, and the Spirit of God rested upon the earth like a shower of gentle rain, and when that fell upon the graves, they were opened, and an immense host of human beings came forth. They were just as diversified in their dress as we are here, or as they were laid down. This personage taught me with regard to these things.... (The Deseret Weekly, Vol. 53, No. 21, November 7, 1896, page 642). QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. Of what value is it to know that the soul of man consists of both body and _ spirit? 2. In what way does the earth fulfill the measure of its creation? 3. What reason might we give that the differences of age between the young and the very old will exist at the time of resurrection? 4. What did you learn from the visions of the resurrection received by Joseph Smith and Wilford Woodruff? 5. What personal guidance can Section 88 give us concerning 'a better resurrection" (Heb. 11:35)? After-Words Dorothy J. Roberts This then, the parting—her shades drawn, The path grown green across her lawn; The tiny orbit where she moved Now empty; her endurance grooved, Her conquered hills kept, as a test, Before the weakness in my breast; Her constant beauty no more there; The valiant smile she used to wear To mend a fraying, human tie And save its fabric, beyond why, Beyond the filament of speech; All | would give, now past her reach— The shadow lengthening where she stood And kept peace with the neighborhood. 617 t Sincere Prayer Most Powerfy| influenc is one Of the €S in the world. Is Support, we can do ~ Nothing. (John 15:5, ven the 8, Say; Is Constant de. Pendence upon his Father. He re. peatedly declare that his might Mediate] € receive no re. Works w Te perform d by the Sponse to h antic crieg or the Power of G S Spirit and Made it Sounding of her cay' horn All Clear that, «7 can of mine Own this tim Prayj mightily Self do nothi eek not nd, final] » With Ustaining Mine ow Will, but the wil] of the Strength Ich f] Into her Father hic hath sent me" body, € crawled the roa (John 5 30 aboy er, Ospital, the 0 the da ly prob] Ms and Cares back UD to the Toad." The doctor of life, Sustaining Support and Teplied, « € must been With WIS€ solution "Nn more than you. You co d have climbed this, Prayer jis 4 Orce as rea] as onto that road alo Yo ave q the power f stavity. In act, at token back » Imes it see to have € Dower Throug Prayer Miracles are © contro] or eve supersede Performed I are h ble, be he laws f natur NY of us lieving, and pPrayerf I, no Matter h flven strep Il_beyong the faint.» Cope of o um Capacities —_——. Or exa €, recen tly on a dark, cold night on an icy bend Suggested Cross reference for In the Toad, a car Skidded and the mothers in the home to the Overturned into an embankmen} Family H venin Manual belo The Jo Ver, Seriously €sson 4__« hildren of Our! Touch it now with fondest heart — Looseg Pages —_ ancient leather _ That &rand old Book that fel apart Holding us together. 619 WORK MEETING Molding A Happy Life Winnifred C. Jardine (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) The Happiness That Comes From Work For Second Meeting, November 1965 Objective: To observe the effect of work on one's happiness. @ Work—what a stable, strong word it is! And yet it is a word of many meanings. For some it is a therapy, to others a matter of pride or dedication, while still others regard it as drudgery. It is important to cultivate attitudes about work where joy and satisfaction come from work well done. A college student helping in a faculty home for her board and room used to scrub the floor with vehemence whenever things bothered her, and the family came to know it was a time to leave her alone. Scrubbing floors was a therapy for her. Madame Marie Curie, after 487 unsuccessful experiments to isolate radium, said to her husband, "Tf it takes 100 years, it will be a pity, but I will not cease to work for it as long as I live." Her work was one of dedication. A wonderful Swiss immigrant, 620 well along in her seventies, who did ironing for several families, answered when complimented on her work, "Why not? It is my profession!" To her, work was a matter of pride. A little child when asked his idea of work answered, "Anything I have to do is work, but anything I want to do is play." To this little soul at this age work seemed to be a drudgery. Work should be a joy and a labor of love. It should bring with it a sense of accomplishment, of doing a job well, of achieving success. The by-products are a hearty appetite, a good night's sleep, and complete enjoyment of a time of relaxation. To paraphrase Ecclesiastes, "There is a time for work and a time for play" (see Ecc. 3:1-8) and getting each in its proper order contributes greatly to one's happiness. J. Edgar Hoover has S necessary also Proper way, ent methods s. All homemaktation of them f LESSON DEPARTM ENT Part of the work chores and hayIng fun in the doing. But no matter the age of the children, it is a thing to Strive for and accomplish. Adults and young People, is not having these four steps Satisfied. Since the days of the Ten Commandments, When the Lord Said, "Six days shalt thou labour," he has commanded his People to work. Pay] the apostle Wrote to the Saints at Thessalonica, "Work With your own hands the Lord once again commanded, through Joseph Smith, "Tz is my will that you should 80 forth and Not tarry, neither be idle but Iabor with your might" (D&C 75. 3). Our prophet today, President happiness js doubled to him who Initiates the work." 621 SOCIAL SCIENCE — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 10 — The Dignity and Worth of Work and of Play For Third Meeting, October 1965 Objective: To suggest attitudes and practices to promote health, industry, and wholesome recreation in the home. INTRODUCTION Three questions are pertinent to this lesson: 1. What is the responsibility of the mother in providing for and establishing health practices in the home? 2. How may the mother teach her children that successful living calls for a balance between work and play, and of the worth and dignity in work? 3. How may she teach her growing child that idleness squanders two of life's great blessings— time and purposeful effort—and, at the same time, not foster in him a feeling of urgency that an overly scheduled program may harmfully create? These questions are closely related, although superficially they may seem unlike. Without good health one cannot enjoy fully either work or recreation. To discuss these questions briefly is to oversimplify; however, this lesson will make some suggestions which may be useful to the Latter-day Saint mother. 622 THE HEALTH-PROMOTING HOME Since the body is the "home" of the spirit, Latter-day Saints are and always have been concerned with the health and wellbeing of the physical body. They are interested in concrete practices by which the growing child may be brought to a sound and healthful maturity, and they are interested in maintaining good health throughout the years. The 89th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants instructs us that certain foods are healthful and that certain substances are "not good for man." The Latterday Saint mother will help her child to realize that this is true by maintaining practices in the home that are in harmony with sound health counsel. It is the responsibility of the parents, in so far as it is possible, to provide a home where sanitary, healthful, and comfortable conditions may contribute to good health. It is the responsibility of the mother to teach her children good health practices. The health in- heritances of people differ widely, yet everyone has the obligation to achieve and maintain the best possible health, by complying with the laws of health. It is the mother who usually assumes the responsibility of seeing that periodic check-ups are made by dentist and physician; that teeth are given adequate personal care, and that immunity to disease is achieved through proper innoculations. It is the mother who is chiefly responsible for a wholesome, wellbalanced diet for family members. She knows that proper rest and sleep are also necessary. In the Doctrine and Covenants we find this counsel: "... Retire to thy bed early, that ye may not be weary; arise early, that your bodies and your minds may be invigorated" (D&C 88:124). With appointments at the dentist and doctor, and with school teachers' and mother's reminders about health, is there danger that a child may become overly concerned and apprehensive regarding his own health? Do you think that an overly apprehensive, health-conscious mother is likely to motivate such an attitude? What is the difference between the following statements by two children, age seven, who are offered apples from an orchard? Ist child: "I guess I'd better wash it first. At our house we always do." 2nd child: "I guess I shouldn't take it. I bet there're lots of bad germs on it." It is the opinion of some mothers that if sound health practices relative to food, rest, recreation, and periodic medical examinations, become matter-of-fact rouLESSON DEPARTMENT tine practices, children will acquire a natural regard for health without becoming personally apprehensive concerning their own health.; A MOTHER MAY WONDER The need to work, the ability to work, and the results of work are among the great blessings of life. Teaching this truth to children, however, is not easy, as a mother well knows. It is a responsibility she can delegate neither to the school nor to the Church. The home, with its innumerable household tasks, and tasks around a house or farm, is an excellent laboratory for teaching small children the value of work, and to accept work assignments. In the home the child first senses the joy of achievement—putting a button into a buttonhole, holding the dustpan as mother sweeps, and placing his folded pajamas in their proper place. Often, however, something seems to happen between these early, helpful efforts and the teenage indolence. What is it? A mother often may wonder what has happened to the boy, who at age six voluntarily struggled to bring in the trash can, and the boy of thirteen who must be reminded over and over again ~ that the garbage can should be brought inside. She may wonder what has happened to the eager five-year-old daughter who stood upon a chair coaxing to help mama wash the dishes, and the girl of thirteen who says with emphasis, "I do hope that in heaven there are no dishes to wash." 623 AUGUST 1965 LEVEL OF KNOWING VERSUS LEVEL OF PERFORMANCE It was stated in lesson 3, where the gap between knowledge and performance was discussed briefly, that this subject would be reconsidered in a later lesson. It is in the area of teaching children to assume work responsibilities, particularly, that this gap may be noted. Mothers may become quite impatient when children fail to do simple tasks which they — know they should do; when they ask, "Why do I have to work? Why make the beds every day? Why not once a week?" Discuss frankly with the children the necessity of an orderly home. Explain that there is too much work for one or two people to do; that the home is their home and that all should share in its work and its play. Each family member shares in the benefits of the home, each should share in its enjoyment. DRIVING FORCES VERSUS RESTRAINING FORCES It has been said that, in general, we do the things we most want to do. What we most want to do may involve several factors. There may be tangible, concrete rewards, or there may be mental or emotional satisfactions which incline us to a particular choice or course of action. These may be spoken of as positive motivations or driving forces. On the other hand, there are restraining forces which tend to keep us from positive action. Knowing this, the mother will search to find out what the restraining forces are which keep her children from performing as 624 well "as they know." Consider the following illustrations: Daughter: "I ought to go to meeting tonight, but I don't want to. I don't feel like it." Give at least two reasons why the daughter may not "feel like going." (Suggestions: She may not feel well physically, or she may feel socially unhappy, even inadequate.) Suggest others. Mother: (Unhappily) 'Son, just look at your room! Why don't you put things where they belong, and be more tidy?" Son: (Who really doesn't mean what he is saying) "I like my room this way. I can see everything I own, right from the door." Could this boy be telling his mother something like this? "T know my room should be cleaned up and neat, but I don't want to put forth the effort to make it so. There are other things I'd rather be doing." Whatever these "other things" may be, they apparently present to his mind greater satisfactions than cleaning up his room. What motivating forces might lead this boy to positive action in tidying up his room? (The satisfaction of fulfilling delegated responsibility; the satisfaction of order and neatness; the satisfaction of pleasing his mother. Can you name others?) "Many hands make light work" is an old maxim, familiar to all of us. It has special meaning for the family where regular work and special interest or hobby projects involve several or all family members. This cooperative' effort makes for family solidarity and children often say, "It's more fun doing things together." ATTITUDE! S IMPORTANT The mother who says, "My children are lazy. They don't do anything around the house," may be somewhat unfair to her children. Is it possible that the mother, herself, considers housework distasteful and transfers her attitude to her children? Is it possible that her children are not motivated to see _ satisfactions which outweigh the effort involved in doing the tasks? Do mothers sometimes negatively emphasize assigned duties so that a particular task seems unpleasant? Contrast the following attitudes of approach to a task: lst mother: "I know, Alice, how you hate to iron, but this ironing must be done." 2d mother: "You do a good ironing job, Alice, and we all appreciate your helping us to look our 'best—I especially." Mothers who are endeavoring to reduce the gap _ between knowing and doing, might ask themselves such questions as the following: 1. Do I "nag" or do I motivate my children to work? 2. Do I delegate responsibility kindly but firmly, expecting it to be carried out, or do my repeated reminders irritate my child so that he builds up resentment toward the task? 3. If the attitude of the mother is an important motivating force, may not the mother who does all she can cheerully do (even though she leaves some details 'undone) be more wise than the mother who wearily and complainingly accomplishes more? 4. Should "play" be a reward for work done, or a separate activity with merits-of its own? LESSON DEPARTMENT GUIDED SUGGESTIONS TO YOUTH The attitudes of "getting something for nothing' and of getting by with as little work as possible, are demoralizing factors in contemporary life. We are realizing the fact that even many of our youth are assuming this attitude. In an attempt to help young people prepare themselves for responsibility in the world's work and to lessen idleness, civic groups in many cities are helping youth to find summer employment. They need the cooperation of parents in this worthwhile project. In the following examples, note the difference in attitude in two mothers. Lst boy: (age sixteen) "School's out! Boy, am I going to rest up now, do nothing but fun things all summer!" lst mother: "I hope you do. No early rising, no school books. You really should have an easy summer." 2d boy: "Hurray, school's out! Nothing to do until September." 2d mother: "You'll welcome a change, I know, son. Your father is going to speak to you about a job opportunity he thinks you'll find really challenging. He thinks you have ability in mechanical lines. You can use the money you'll get to buy things you'll be wanting next September." 2d boy: "Good. I'd like that." Can we expect youth suddenly to become industrious if they have not been trained to accept and carry out some work assignments? THE DIGNITY OF WORK At some time, either at appropriate though unscheduled teaching moments, or on planned and scheduled occasions, children should be given training and counsel on the value and dignity 625 AUGUST 1965 of work. They also should be taught to take pride in work well done and should receive encouragement and commendation when they carry out their share of home duties. They likely will respond favorably to a discussion of that important commandment given to our first parents: "multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it" (Genesis 1:28). In order to subdue the earth, man must put forth both mental and physical effort. He must work in order to bring harvests from the soil and to supply the innumerable comforts we enjoy. Children may be taught that order is evident in the universe and that there should be order in their lives and homes. It requires work to have order in our homes and in our lives. If discussed in an enthusiastic manner, children will thrill to the idea of becoming a part of the work force of the world—the men and women who invent and originate, who build bridges, houses, railroads, airplanes; men and women who teach, who discover, who perform in cultural arts; mothers who cook delicious foods, who sew attractive clothes, and who love and care for children. Who would want to be idle —to be on the outside of all this exciting challenge! IDLENESS NOT APPROVED OF THE LORD Our Heavenly Father does not approve of idleness, and much divine counsel regarding labor has been given to man since Adam and Eve began their labors beyond the gates of Eden. In the Doctrine and Covenants 68:31-32 we read: "Now, I, the Lord, am 626 not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there are idlers among them; and their children are also growing up in wickedness. These things ought not to be." And again, in Section 88 are the words: "Cease to be idle." To teach children that work is necessary and that the Lord does not approve of idleness; to help them to know the joy of accomplishment; to help them feel that in all constructive, useful work there is dignity; to help them to see that both mental and manual labor not only are the means of earning a livelihood, but that they also bring satisfactions which are the very essence of happiness, are parental challenges which require much understanding, love, and infinite patience. SO BRIEF THE YEARS! Childhood years are so precious, so important, but so brief! Is there not some danger in this day of programs and schedules, of hourly racing from activity to activity, that children may be pressed into adulthood, prematurely? May not this be true especially of 'city children'? We must not confuse idleness with unscheduled moments of learning, and experience, nor rob children of their right to dream, to discover, quietly, some of the mysteries of a magic world. Today, there is more pavement but there are fewer meadows, more houses, but fewer trees to climb, fewer. Streams to wade. Perhaps we need more mothers who, sensing today's regimentation, will try to preserve the essential needs of a "child's world"; mothers who will seek to compensate for these losses by thoughtful substitution. Such a mother well might say to her very young children, "Suppose we go adventuring down the street, this beautiful spring day. We could count the colors of flowers in bloom and see the different houses—some of them tall, like trees; some of them low and long, with wide windows. There may not be any real] butterflies, but, who knows we might see a really live robin, upon somebody's lawn!'' "IF THOU ART MERRY" need to play; to re-create ourSelves through joyful diversion, We need to sing. "If thou art merry, praise singing, with music, with dancing, and with a prayer of praise and thanksgiving" (D&C 136:28). And in ancient scripture we read _ these words: "To every thing there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the heaven... EA time to weep, and a time to laugh; a time to mourn, and a time to dance" (Ecclesiastes 3:1, 4). Opened for Performances fifteen years after the Pioneers came into evidence the interest of present Church leaders in making recreLESSON DEPARTMENT to take advantage of the recregtional activities offered the youth of the Church, are associating, Children wil] recall fondly the family outings, and summer picwith family members or friends playing games, listening to conversation or music, Popping corn, serving refreshments. Such occasions, enjoyable in the present, FOR DISCUSSION Questions appearing in the lesson and introduced into the discussion. FOR HOME DOING 627 t Wwe would li buy ¢ ke to Oys just behave them. LESSON DEPARTMENT much _ Do you think the Matter of much money we ra Choice Is Involved to spend. This one Costs about the: Same as the little truck IN this quesh tion? Might we say that the you have;. - There wil] daughter Is choosing to keep al] enough money, and the mother Which Would you Prefer having?" is agreeing? Boy: "Bobby bishop, this cents to the Morning, fo Do r his tithing. Dren to e of Teady-toMoney). Ing. 3. Why we Day tithing. Financial] circumstances, lowing: 629 AUGUST 1965 (short term); Church missions; selecting a vocation. In all of these areas the matter of money is an important factor. There are many alluring enticements which involve' the spending of money for children of all ages. Children need the counsel of wise parents from an early age so that they will be reasonable in their requests for money; will not squander their own prized earnings; may acquire sound spending practices which will be useful to them throughout life. VALUE OF EXPERIENCE We must not overlook, moreover, the value of an experience which may result from an unwise choice. Example: A son, age nineteen, who purchases, with his own money, a used car which tums out to be a financial burden as well as a poor buy. How may the parents of this son help him to gain value from this experience, without losing faith in his own decisions? His ability to make an individual choice? DIVINE ADMONITION Latter-day Saints are encouraged to work, to be thrifty, and to spend wisely. They are encouraged to seek for a_ wise balance in their spending for spiritual and for temporal needs, and for luxuries. The mother will remain aware of the wisdom found in the divine admonition: Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal: But lay up for 630 yourselves treasures in heaven.... For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also (Matthew 6: 19-21). As part of her responsibility to teach the gospel in the home, the mother herself will heed this divine counsel, and will help her children to know what the treasures are that are laid up in heaven and to seek them. A mother will train her children to follow the words of Benjamin:._.. 1 would that ye should impart of your substance to the poor, every man according to that which he hath, such as feeding the hungry, clothing the naked, visiting the sick and administering to their relief, both spiritually and temporally, according to their wants (Mosiah 4:26). WHAT SHALL | BUY WITH MY TIME? This question is of continuing concern for both children and adults and, only gradually, do we learn where true wisdom lies. As we plan on receiving full value for the money we spend, so, also, should we aim to receive full value for our time, even our leisure time. When we are young, time appears to be an indefinite, limitless commodity. It seems to stretch before us as a _ neverending plain. Days, weeks, months, years—time for everything! We sometimes hear youth say, "Oh, I have time to burn." As we grow older, the days slip by, weeks shorten, years— where do they go? All of our activities relate to the use of time, and, since our earth-time is limited, we increasingly need to choose wisely how we will use time. We need to decide what values we hope to get in return. What are some of the specific values we may expect to get from the wise expenditure of our time? (Suggestion: Wisdom, development of specific skills, mental and emotional satisfaction, financial compensation. ) IMPORTANT CHOICES TV viewing is an area where time and value received are important factors, and where mothers may help children to become selective. There are many beautiful, stimulating, educational, and wholesomely entertaining television shows, and there are also unwholesome, undesirable shows where violence and dishonor are even made attractive. How may the mother guard her children and her home from the undesirable influence of undesirable viewing? How may she help her children see that the values received from TV shows differ widely? What desirable values may be received? Name four values which might be "learned" from undesirable shows. SELECTIVE READING If we believe, as Thomas Jefferson so firmly did, in the power of the printed word to move men to good action, we must also believe in the power of the printed word to move men to evil action. People do not, of course, put into action all they think about, but it may be said that those things we intentionally do, we have thought about, at least briefly. Never in the history of the world has so much _ reading material been available. Every LESSON DEPARTMENT area of human interest, from outer space to the caverns of the sea, has been explored, to some extent, and recorded upon the printed page. And as all have not faith, seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith (D&C 88:118). Even in the area of children's literature, available books are innumerable. There are books on every subject of interest and need for the growing child—mediocre books, good books, and excellent books which are wisely written and skilfully illustrated. Unfortunately there are men who are willing to exploit the innocence of youth for money. Millions of dollars are spent annually in the business of producing and marketing undesirable, even pornographic written material. It is sold upon stands and is sent through the mails, often to juvenile readers who may bear the scar of this influence throughout life. "What is not good for us is wrong," are the words of Dorothy Lewis, chairman of the American Mothers Committee who, among many others, is alerting young mothers to this great modern evil. Do you believe something can be done about this situation? How may the mother help her children develop a taste for good and profitable reading material? How can she help her children see that reading mediocre 'or undesirable reading material squanders precious time, invites degrading thoughts into the mind, and also may lessen one's 631 AUGUST 1965 ability to recognize and choose the good? Children read what is available. Is there suitable reading material in your home at present? Libraries are only effort away. Bookmobiles will bring books right to one's neighborhood in some areas. Today is the day of the book —the good, enlightening book, the scientific book, the travel book, the human study book, the book of eternal truths which will inform the mind and strengthen the faith of the believer and may bring faith to the unbeliever. These are questions for the Latter-day Saint mother: Do you ever read to them? Are reading? Do you ever read to them? Could selective reading be a subject for a family discussion? The accumulated knowledge of the world is available to those who seek; to those who are willing to substitute for trash '"'wisdom out of the best books." FOR DISCUSSION Questions appearing in the lesson. Make as full use of them as possible. FOR HOME DOING 1. Listen, and watch for opportunity subtly to counsel small children on money spending, and allocating money for useful projects. 2. Watch for opportunity with older children to give counsel on general money spending practices as you consider it wise to do so. 3. View one or two TV shows as a family. Discuss the shows afterward, noting the reaction of family members. 4. If your children do not have library cards, suggest that each child obtain one, and encourage their wise use. 5. (Adults only in the home) Appraise your reading habits. Appraise your television viewing as to time consumed and value of program. Are you selective in your viewing? Till Love Comes Home Rae Woolley Whited Yet a little while till roses bloom, Till buds burst forth on tree and bough That each may keep its yearly vow. Yet a little while till youngsters play All tanned by sun. Till life seems easy once again, And there is time to make a friend. Yet a little while till love comes home — After the loneliness — Then winter's grief is gone away And life begins a bright, new day. 632 LITERATURE — The Individual and Human Values. As Seen Through Literature Elder Robert K. Thomas Lesson 10—Good Versus Evil—Part II (Text: Out of the Best Books, pp. 246-280, 329-360) For Fourth Meeting, November 1965 Objective: To show that problems of good and evil involve @ In this age of aggressive individuality how often do we hear the assertion "It's my own life to live.""' But should this be accepted as justification for rejecting the obligations of society? It shouldn't take much reflection on our part to help us see that, whether we like it or not, interdependence is a fact. Yet in a profound sense we all do have a very individual life to lead. This is not the life of the rebel, the abdicator of responsibility. Quite the contrary. The life we must live alone is the life of our choices. God has given to each of his children the right and necessity of choice. We may come from a poor environment; we may lack education; but, as The Book of Mormon makes clear, we can all desire to be better. In that desire is an affirmative choice. The selections of literature which we will consider this month all share a focus on personal choice, and the results of such choice. Problems of personal choice. THE HAPPY PRINCE In "The Happy Prince," by Oscar Wilde, we see how one good choice makes possible another, until a whole life is changed. This is a deliberate and deceptively simple account of the linked force of small choices. The empty-headed swallow is easily deceived, a bit vain, but essentially good-hearted. His first positive choice, to stay with the Prince overnight, stems. Only from his feeling mildly sorry for the Prince who is no _ longer happy. The swallow is only delaying his flight to the sensuous. Delights of Egypt. After his first proper choice results in a focus to his life that he didn't have before, he feels good—but hardly sees the significance of his action. He is still vain, and his thoughts turn easily to the personal indulgences which have set the tenor of his life up to now. The swallow finds it easier to make his second right choice— staying the second night—but he 633 AUGUST 1965 is really moved for the first time when he sees the willingness with which the Prince sacrifices one of his jewelled eyes. After staying to help for one more night, the swallow suddenly realizes that he can't leave. The seemingly insignificant choices have become commitment. The evil of the world has not been solved by the swallow's choices and the Prince's sacrifices, but they have achieved individual salvation—which is all the triumph any person can have over evil. The form of "The Happy Prince"' does little to reinforce its message. Perhaps all that can be said is that the simplicity of its form supports the simplicity of its solution. THE HOUND OF HEAVEN In turning next to ""The Hound of Heaven," by Francis Thompson (1858-1907), we go from the 66s artless to the intricate. It "is one of the great short religious poems of the English language. It is not only vivid in imagery and lavish in music but also rich in thought and meaning" (Text, page 348). I fled Him, down the nights and down the days; I fled Him, down the arches of the years; I fled Him, down the labyrinthine ways Of my own mind; and in the mist of tears I hid from Him, and under running laughter. Up vistaed hopes I sped; And shot, precipitated, Adown 'Titantic glooms of chasmed fears, From those strong Feet that followed, followed after. But with unhurrying chase, And unperturbed pace, 634 Deliberate speed, majestic instancy, They beat—and a Voice beat More instant than the Feet— "All things betray thee, who betrayest Me." In reading the poem one should first of all understand that Thompson intends no blasphemy or heresy with the term "Hound of Heaven," referring to Christ. The phrase comes from Shelley's Prometheus Unbound, in which Shelley refers admiringly to Christ as "heaven's winged hound." Thompson uses the phrase in the sense of an analogy. As the hound pursues the rabbit, ever drawing closer in the chase, so does Christ in His love pursue the sinning mortal who in his rebellion would escape the influence of Christ (Text, page 348). It takes a total approach to get the full effect of "The Hound of Heaven," and it helps a great deal to know something about its author Francis Thompson as we read this famous poem. In addition to the material in our text, it helps to know that his genius as a poet was early recognized. His poverty, his apparent determination "to lead his own life" were deliberate. He was less a victim of circumstance than he was of his own choices. Better than most men he understood that we are not always driven; we flee. The tragedy of this poem is not that we choose degrading things, but that we try to substitute the part for the All-Good. The form in which Thompson presents his message is most effective. Note how the phrasing of the poem twists and turns in an effort to escape. The lines stop and start, rush headlong and then pull up short. The rhyme scheme suggests an attempt to order a life—to bring it into balance—but the off-rhymes and near-rhymes try to help us see O harmonize ch with limax of the poem "Naked I wait Th d stroke!" the key rist's insistence 5 uplifte of God. Over the le better. THE INVISIBLE COLLECTION the text, "The an? By Stefan adds 2 diInvisible wrongs seem trast that we culty in choosing, the situations in wh results are LESSON DEPARTMENT guish? Consider again the story we are discussing. The reasons for selling the collection appear overwhelmingly justifiable. As the distraught daughter truly comshame at the end? The author of this moving little story is not going to let us gO without reflection on what it means to against principle. Principle can never be violated with impunity. A choice in which either alternative is in some degree evil disturbs the balance of trust by which men and civilizations live. As someone has suggested, the real terror of lying lS not that no on® will trust us but that we cannot trust ourselves nor anyone else. If we choose to hie under certain conditions, what lS there to stop others from doing the same? The daughter and mother suggest that the blind father "knows nothing of our material difficulties." It ls sobering +0 realize that in choosing not to tell him, perhaps in love and surely in concern, they make the lying inevitable. Is the father's "happiness" pought at too great a price? Indulgence of those we love may be a subtle form of selflove. How easy it is for us to defend our actions in terms of what we think we are doing for others. As Paul reminds us in his AUGUST 1965 think they are. A lie is not usually the beginning of wrong choices, but it is the inevitable fruit of them. A CHRISTMAS CAROL "A Christmas Carol," by Charles Dickens (1812-1870), needs no explanation for its message is clear. It is a simple story in which fantasy comes to the aid of reality in letting us see what ought to be. Past, present, and future unite in one who can repent. Yet even the fantasy does not blur the primary force of individual choice in all change. AFTER CHRISTMAS Note the matter-of-fact conversational language of the poem "After Christmas," by W. H. Auden (1907- +). How easy it is to follow a comfortable pattern; how difficult it is to move from the rut. Even habitual good becomes suspect because it does not require very much commitment on our part. This poem, finally, goes far beyond its implied Christmas setting. (See text, page 275.) WHITE CHRISTMAS "White Christmas," by W. R. Rodgers (1909- ), documents one shabby way in which we can avoid facing our problems. We can play at life, pretend that things are better than they are. As the snow covers and equalizes everything, good and bad, so we at Christmas, find it easy to spread a blanket of hypocritical good will over the land. The spurious world we thus create is not an ideal which might at least set us goals. It is a justification for our greed. We are not, for one 636 wonderful moment, trying to live above ourselves; we are merely pretending, accepting appearance for reality. The real commentary upon our falsity arrives with the day after Christmas when we return to our actual lives without remorse, no more changed by our Christmas experience than we are by any other make-believe. If 'White Christmas" verges on the bitter, it lacks the rancor of "Karma," by Edward Arlington Robinson (Text, page 280). KARMA The title of this poem is taken from a concept found in Buddhism and Hinduism which suggests that your destiny is determined by the sum of your acts, that is, you will receive in another state of existence, exactly what you have chosen to receive, as demonstrated by your deeds in this life. It is a shock to realize that Robinson has chosen to use a conventional sonnet to make his point, for in the sonnet the first eight lines usually present a problem which is resolved in the last six. Note the nature of the resolution here. The faint twinge of conscience which has pricked the subject of the poem after he has ruined a friend in a business transaction is resolved by giving ''a dime for Jesus who had died for man." Of all the material we have covered in this section none is so bluntly condemnatory. By continuing effort, man has succeeded in degrading himself so totally that the "'fullness of his heart'? Adds up to no more than a dime. Perhaps Robinson is suggesting that the most pervasive compromise of our time is a belief that anything can be solved by money. If we choose to believe this, nothing but money finally matters. After a while even the amount doesn't matter so long as money is involved. 'Note to Class Leaders: Since there is no literature lesson for December in 1965 we have included several pieces appropriate to the Christmas season in the November lesson. The extent to which they are used will depend on each class leader, but there should be no difficulty in considering them in terms of our November emphasis on choice. Questions for Discussion 1. If succeeding right choices do reinforce one another, as we see in "The Happy Prince," is there any problem in making right choices out of habit? 2. How responsible do you think the daughter and mother in "The Invisible Collection" are to let the father know of their financial plight? In not doing so, do they choose to lie? 3. Of all those we have met in this lesson, who has failed most completely to discern between good and evil? Lyric of Happiness Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn Oh, bright is the world And blue is the sky And even the wind Goes dancing by. The air is so full Of sunlight and song That this is a day To cherish long. With joy in my heart, My beloved here, "And a day like this— Oh, heaven is near! HAWAIIAN TOURS July 31, 1965 October, November 1965 WORLD'S FAIR and L. D. S. PAGEANT TOURS 16 day tour July 17—Aug. 7 22 day tour July 24—Aug. 14 Two 29 day tours July 11—Aug. 8 and July 24—Aug. 21 AUTUMN TOURS TO EUROPE Leaves September 3, 1965 WORLD'S FAIR NEW ENGLAND and CANADIAN FALL TOUR September 16, 1965 Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 485-2444 — 262-2337 DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS Sections 88, 89, 90 (Eight Lectures) by ROY W. DOXEY Associate Professor of Religion Brigham Young University EDUCATION WEEKS 1965 Price $1.50 Available end of June from BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Extension Publications Provo, Utah 84601 Write for Extension Publications Catalog listing talks given at BYU by General Authorities 637 i \ @ @ Is your family grown or mostly grown? @ Do you want to become a technically competent, contributing member of society? @ Would you be proud to serve as a registered nurse with an Associate of Arts degree? @ Are you in need of dignified, remunerative employment? > FOR COMPLETE INFORMATION WRITE OR PHONE (EVENING CLASSES IN SALT LAKE CITY BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY COLLEGE OF NURSING Through the B. Y. U. - Salt Lake Center for Continuing Education offer a two year associate degree career in NURSING FOR MATURE WOMEN WHO ARE HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATES mw YOUNG UN, ee BYU ""s,. ' SALT LAKE ° CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 200 North Main Phone 328-0325 a Lake City FIRST CLASS STARTS OCTOBER 4, 1965 J CANADIAN ROCKIES and NORTHWEST TOUR leaving August 8th PASSION PLAY TOUR leaving August 22nd LABOR DAY TOUR September 4-5-6 NEW ENGLAND, CANADIAN FALL TOUR leaving September 4th HAWAIIAN ALOHA TOUR October ROSE PARADE TOURS December Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 SINGING MOTHERS' CHORAL ARRANGEMENTS Abide with Me—Madsen.20 Come Ye Blessed of My Father.20 Come Ye Blessed—Scott.25 Create in Me a Clean Heart.25 Eternal Life 20000..25 Eye Hath Not Seen 00 25 God of All Nature 0.000000..25 Incline Your Ear - 000000..0.0------..25 Lord Bless Thee and Keep Thee.20 Lord, God of Our Fathers.25 Lord Is My Shepherd—Ryg.20 Lord's Prayer—Robertson 25 Peace | Leave with You.20 Prayer for Our Country 25 Voice in the Wilderness.25 327 Broadway Idaho Falls, Idaho 83401 Orders shipped the same day as we receive. Catalogs supplied. 638 Tour the Holy Land This Fall Via Pan American Jet TOUR LEAVES OCTOBER 7th: Murdock Travel's annual Fall tour of the ever inspiring Holy Land provides you with 21 days of high quality, worry-free travel. You are assured of luxury travel on Pan American jet clippers and superb accommodations in the finest hotels... All at unusually low cost! The tour includes all of the Holy Land as well as places such as Istanbul, Cairo, Athens, and Rome. W. Cleon Skousen, Tour Director Mr. Skousen is a foremost LD. S. Authority on the Holy Land and the author of several successful books. Among these are: So You Want to Raise a Boy? The First Two Thousand Years, and The Third Thousand Years. WBeeteveeceoveeeeeseeeesseeaesenesceseoeseveescesvenvuvvvuevevuvueeee MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. 14 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101, Phone 328-3161 PLEASE SEND ME FULL PARTICULARS ON THE FALL TOUR OF THE HOLY LAND. MURDOCK Xe le i. 5 e TRA VEL WY eee ceecee cece ceeeesState eeZip. Gu Meeaeeteoeseeeesvoseeeetseevensbe By Wielka ccc cccw sss cuiinccddecneccccccccccnccc cts ee, BEAUTIFUL Jhank You HANDY for your patronage and DURABLE your fine friendship over the years We have A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society MagaALL THE NEW HANDCRAFTS: zine is in a noaneseus neune nme, be ° Mountain West''s first an inest bindery an Plastic Grapes and other printing house is prepared to bind your editions Plastic Casting Supplies into a durable volume. Feather Flowers Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to Ribbon Flowers the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Satin Wrapped Fruit, etc. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 and Phone 486-1892 ALL THE OLD FAVORITES: Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Mosaics Advance payment must accompany all orders. Aluminum Trays Copper Tooling Basketry, etc. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Send 25¢ for catolog and also receive a rene yea our newest book Zone 1 and 2.55 Zone 6.90 "EGG CARTON PARTY FAVORS" Zone 3.60 Zone 7 - 2005. Zone 4.65 Zone 8.. 1.20 Discounts to Groups Jone 5S 80 ZIM'S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah — 2 PESERET FREws PREssSs 639 99 Mrs. Annie Erickson Benson Manti, Utah 98 Mrs. Sarah Francis Hendon Warren, Arkansas 97 Mrs. Annie Olson Larsen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Harriett L. Bronson Woodland Ogden, Utah Mrs. Mary Flint House Brigham City, Utah Mrs. Susanna Allen Portsmouth, Ohio 06 Mrs. Annie Kennedy Corliss Magrath, Alberta, Canada ge hrs. Rachel Fowler Peterson Ogden, Utah | Mrs. Nellie Croshaw Gamble Swan Lake, Idaho Mrs. Elizabeth Rahing Regh Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Anne Kerstina Nielson Busk Elsinore, Utah 90 Mrs. Sarah Brakett Foss Elliott Salt Lake City, Utah 9] Mrs. Anna A. Jeppsen Neilsen Brigham City, Utah 90 Mrs. Mary Ann Mitchell Decker Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Kate Hermia Jones Isbell Washington, D. C. Catherine B. Bowles What have | sent to the garden of God While | plant flowers in the earthly sod? Beautiful lilies, pure and white, Thoughtful pansies with faces bright; The modest violet, quiet, serene, When wisdom and faithfulness are seen. Roses of beauty in a mirrored place, Reflecting loveliness and grace. Precious tributes of tender care Sent to the garden to bloom up there, With gentle assurance they will grow From deeds of faithfulness here below. 640 Timely Books From Three Great LDS Authors 1 A Rational Theology by John A. Widtsoe A Ration A leading L. D. S. Theologian and scholar of a Theol OS) former generation explores such timely topics as fom "The Equality of Man,' 'The United Order and! \ Tithing, 'The Brotherhood of Man,"' and many other fundamental principles that harmonize with the knowledge and reason of man. $2.50 2 The Gospel and Man's Relationship to Deity by B. H. Roberts The author of several LDS best sellers penned this volume originally in 1888 while serving as a missionary in England. It was written for youth at the instigation of the general superintendency of the Mutual Improvement Association. It is brilliantly written and will help the reader understand basic gospel principles. $3.25 3 The Key to Theology by Parley P. Pratt In these days of intellectual confusion, a leader among Latter-day Saint literary figures of the Joseph Smith era provides guidance that is essential for our time. The author writes with the insight of a great scholar and the inspiration of a true apostle of Christ. $2.25 Deseret Book Co., 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah ——s a = SSS _ 8 Dy TSS kT Gentlemen: enclosed please find check money; Des t B order | have an account, please charge ere ook Amount $. Vecececeteseee--s-e For the above numbered COMPANY "4 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY books. 1 2 3 | 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN | y 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Name::.. Q = SS Gaia Address: 00500 oooe occ cece eee ey State Zip: Residents of Utah please include 3%2% sales tax. Residents of California, when ordering through California store, please include 4% sales tox. R. S. Aug. 65 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Ué&I Sugar gives you get up and go! For the active outdoor family, the natural food energy in picnic treats made with U & 1 Sugar is vital for healthy, active bodies! Serve energy-high U & | Sugar treats often. Buy Energy High U & | the sugar from our land. 
