The Relief Society Magazine Volume 52 September 1965 Number 9 Editor Marianne C. Sharp' Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 644 A Prophet in These Latter Days—Birthday Congratulations to President David O. McKay 646 Repentance Henry D. Taylor 652 The Golden Seed Leola Seely Anderson Fiction 655 A Dress for Sherry Lynn Frances C. Yost 660 Ring Around Her Heart—Chapter 5 Shirley Thulin General Features 642 From Near and Far 665 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 666 Editorial: Belonging Marianne C. Sharp 668 In Memoriam—Leah Dunford Widtsoe 669 Notes to the Field: Record with Commentary for Literature Lessons Available 693 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 720 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 670 Promise of Spring Irvin T. Nelson 676 Christmas Home Tour _ 682 Swedish Weaving—An Ancient Art Peggy Tangren 685 Make a Drum Tree for Holidays Florence C. Williams 687 Come for Breakfast Hazel S. Cannon 692 Pearl Turley Frost Combines Art and Artistry Lesson Department 700 Theology—The Law, Man, and the Universe Roy W. Doxey 706 Visiting Teacher. Message "See That Ye Love One Another." Christine H. Robinson 708 Work Meeting—Good Communication Is Essential to Happiness Winnifred C. Jardine. 710 Social Science—Home Is a. Harbor Alberta H. Christensen 716 Literature—No Lesson for December _ Poetry - 641 Shadowless Interval Dorothy J. Roberts ' The Master Hand, by Maxine C. Greenwood, 650: Autumn, by Celestia J. Taylor, 651; Give Me An Upper Room, by Christie Lund Coles, 654; Shared Joy, by Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn, 654; French Twist, by June F. Krambule, 664; From a Schoolroom Window, by Bernice Ames. 668; Creek in Autumn, by Ethel Jacobson, 669; Four-Year-Old, by Lael W. Hill, 686; The Fabric of Our Years, by Pearle M. Olsen, 718. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1965 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Sait Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c @ copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Saft Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879, Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enctosed. Ee te manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible: for unsolicited manuscripts. A PROPHET | Birthday IN THESE [| Congratulations to LATTER DAYS fF President David 0. McKay @ Now in this time of autumn, there is rejoicing throughout the Church in many lands, and a feeling of praise and gratitude for the leadership, the direction, and the inspired counsel of President David O. McKay. In the wards and branches, in the stakes and missions, in all the borders and boundaries where the gospel message has been received, the saints, in their hearts, have a deep and abiding faith in President McKay as the prophet, seer, and revelator. For the women of the Church, the birthday of President McKay has special import and significance, for he has repeatedly counseled and advised and directed the sisters toward a full understanding of their privileges, their duties, and mission and blessings as wives and mothers and their responsibilities as members of the divinely established Relief Society. At this time, it is well to remember and to consider again the farreaching and eternal import of some of the treasured words of President McKay. The responsibility of Relief Society is to aid the Priesthood in establishing the kingdom of God, in relieving the suffering and giving succor to the poor, and in many ways to contribute to the peace and happiness of the world. In no way can these high achievements be better realized than in excelling in the art of home-building (""Home-Building As an Art,' The Relief Society Magazine, January 1936, page 10). Motherhood is the greatest potential influence either for good or ill in human life. The mother's image is the first that stamps itself on the unwritten page of the young child's mind. It is her caress that first awakens a sense of security; her kiss the first realization of affection; her sympathy and tenderness the first assurance that there is love in the world ("The Highest and Best in Woman's Realm," bid, January 1940, page 20).... The influence of Relief Society is rapidly becoming world-wide, that influence carries with it great responsibility. I emphasize this increasing power and influence of Relief Society and of womankind in general, having 644 et President David O. McKay one purpose in mind: That increased attention be given and more intensified effort put forth to maintain and preserve the dignity of motherhood... To perpetuate the truth that home is the true foundation upon which is built the structure of true, civilized Christian society ('""Woman's Influence," Jbid, December 1950, pp. 798-799). Ever keep in mind that you begin to lay the foundation of a happy home in your pre-marital lives... - Choose your mate by judgment and inspiration, as well as by physical attraction. Approach marriage with the lofty views it merits.... Happiness in the home is enhanced by having children at the fireside.... Let the spirit of reverence pervade the home.... Let husband and wife never speak in loud tones to each other. Learn the value of self-control. _.. Fasten home ties by continued companionship. Do everything to cement love for all eternity. Make accessible to children, proper literature and music. By example and precept, encourage participation in Church activity. This is fundamental in developing a true character. Church activity should be led, not directed by parents ("Ten Conditions Which Contribute to a Happy Home," Ibid, May 1953, pp. 284-285). The women of the Church acknowledge the goodness of the Lord in giving them the guidance and direction of his inspired prophet President McKay. We are grateful to President McKay for his tender, loving watchcare over the sisters of the Church 645 RNR KKK IIIT TI SRK eneees acattecacaconentetcecacecscetshctetatatstcestatatetenevaconeeeeecanenerereconeneeacererereceenen acacecececereserenee SORKIN HHH OSS KKK ene, oneee eee, eseee x en, one, - SKK XKKKS KR epentance SIRI octet, o oe KKKKK T KK MO Henry D. Taylor SSO RK; ' SSSR SRK Assistant to the Council of the Twelve RRR ecateronete SRK, 5S SO QORSS2 @ In the world today there are two forces at work, one attempting to build man up, and inspire and bless him. The other, one of evil and hate, leading to degradation or destruction or both. The ancient prophet Mormon was aware of these forces, and wisely counseled his son Moroni: ''Wherefore, all things which are good cometh of God; and that which is evil cometh of the devil; for the devil is an enemy unto God, and fighteth against him continually. But God inviteth and enticeth to do good continually...". (Moroni 7:12, kB) These forces were at play even before we came to this earth. The scriptures relate the story of a great council that was held in the heavens where plans were discussed for peopling the earth. We learn that two plans were presented: one by God the Eternal Father, the other by Lucifer, the Son of the Morning. The plan submitted by God 646 COCCCCCOCCCCCCCCCCC CCS SOY, COLO CECEEOOEOECOS eeceseeastatararererseseseseseseeeerennnsets RRR WLRLKS PCLLSSCCCCCCOCEEEEEECEEOS LLC CCCCCCCCOECEECCEECES LSSSCCCCCOCCCCCEECCECOOS S PCLSSOCCCOOCEEEEOEOEES eetebetehchctetetetctetetctchctetelcleten YQ the Father provided that man would have the right to choose between good and evil, and freely exercise his agency. Jehovah, who in this life became Jesus the Christ, accepted the Father's plan, and wanted all honor, credit, and glory to be given to the Father. Lucifer proposed that all of our Heavenly Father's children would be saved, but it would be by force, with no right to make choices. For the part he would play, he selfishly demanded that all honor and credit be given to him. When Lucifer's plan was rejected, he became angry, and, leading a third of the hosts of heaven after him, waged war against the righteous hosts led by Michael, a supporter of Jehovah. For his rebellion and disobedience, Lucifer and his followers were cast out of heaven, and denied the blessing of obtaining mortal bodies. He became known as Satan, the devil. associates ave been attempting Ofttimes Ww ponder the putto lea he souls of men astray poses of God in allowing us the through sim and wickedness rivilege of coming to earth. 1° another most important truth: was given vision in which he "For pehold, the Spirit of Christ beheld 4 large assemblage of is given to every man, that he spiritual beings: (Moroni Be And there stood one ong them The P ophet Jo eph Smith that was like unto God, and he sal _ unto those ere W th him e jearned of the tw powers indiwill £0 down, f there lS space there, cated above one of hi annual and we will take of th materials, e have glory } the same kingdom Wl who 18 Satan, rT hi innumer those who ke their first estate; an able associates. H Pro het was they wh keep their secon estate given an planation this eXoon bas glory — por ne perience when it was pointed ou es oe = ever (Abraham that Those of us who kept out first re, the estate were privileged to come to glory of God and the power of darkearth and possess mortal bodies, Bess, that you may now hereafter the to prove ourselves and determine two powers and never be influenc. Or overcome by that wicked oné.- - - ia would keep our second (Comp. Hist. Vol. 1, pages 18-79) - estate by doing all that our As we think of Satan going do. In this new experience we about his diabolical way> leading are allowed to make decisions, appealing to th weaknesses © the Tl to choose, for W ich the flesh, We may b assured 0 principle Jehovah fought so val one simp bu fundamenta jantly against S in the wat ray for strength d strive W! Tentionally We shou d learn DY all our might to keep the comour mistakes and avoid repeating mandments f the Lord We them The Lord, 17 his wisdom, can be stronger han the forces kindness, and mercy has proof the adversary: vided a Way hat we can be forSubmit yourselves therefore to God.: Resist the devil, and he will flee from by and through the beautiful you. Principle of repentance SEPTEMBER 1965 Running like a golden thread through the messages of the prophets comes the admonition, "Repent ye." And, with the restoration of the gospel, the voice of the Lord again is heard loud and clear: "Repent and be baptized."" Thomas Carlyle declared: "Of all the acts of man, repentance is the most divine." When the heavenly light of the gospel message touches the heart of man, and he develops faith in an eternal Heavenly Father and his Son Jesus Christ, he gains a desire to forsake forbidden paths and abandon evil ways, and changes his way of life. From an anguished soul he cries out: "O God! Have mercy upon me a sinner." This is repentance, that great principle of the gospel that can and does change men. It makes bad men good, and good men better. It is really a principle of progress encouraging man ever to do his best. | In this process of growth or development there are certain generally accepted steps necessary to produce a reformation in one's life. First, must come an awareness of wrongdoing, bringing a feeling of genuine remorse and sorrow. Then comes action, with the forsaking or abandoning of that which is wrong. Another important step is a confessing of sins of whatever character they may be, slight or grievous. The Lord has placed among us the bishop, as father of the ward, and to him one who has repented and is seeking forgiveness should go. The Lord has stressed the importance of this procedure in these words: "Behold, he who has repented of his sins, the same is forgiven, and I, the Lord, re- 648 member them no more." Then comes the final test: "By this ye may know if a man repenteth of his sins—behold, he will confess them and forsake them" (D&C 58:42-43). A repentant person will also make restitution, where it is possible to do so. And, finally, he will show his sincerity by sinning no more, but, instead, will render obedience to the commandments of our Heavenly Father. The Savior taught that if we expect the Lord to forgive us of our errors, we must be willing to forgive others. This encourages repentance, the prerequisite of forgiveness. As he taught his disciples how to pray, he implored: "And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors" (Matthew 6:12). And he further said: "But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses" (Matthew 6:15).. In our generation the Lord has said to the people: "Wherefore, I say unto you, that ye ought to forgive one another; for he that forgiveth not his brother his trespasses standeth condemned before the Lord; for there remaineth > in him the greater sin" (D&C 64:9). What is the greater sin? It is the refusal t6 acknowledge and exercise the spirit of repentance. The Savior taught a beautiful lesson in forgiveness when a woman was brought before him who had been taken in sin. He faced her accusers with the challenge: "He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her' (John 8:7). He wrote in the sand, then raising his head he said: "Woman, where are those thine accusers? Hath no man condemned thee? "She said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said unto her, Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more" (John 8:11). This is a touching lesson in tolerance and forgiveness. But remember that forgiveness cannot be awarded unless preceded by true repentance. It must be earned. Forgiveness is a_ continuing obligation and not a one-time occurrence. In answer to Peter's question, "Lord, how oft shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? Till seven times?" The Master said: "I say not unto thee, Until seven times: but, Until seventy times seven" (Matthew 18:21-22). In this generation the Lord has again emphasized the need for a person to forgive often. In 1833, he gave this message to the saints through their Prophet: And again, verily I say unto you, if after thine enemy has come upon thee the first time, he repent and come unto thee praying thy forgiveness, thou shalt forgive him, and shalt hold it no more as a testimony against thine enemy— And so on unto the second and third time; and as oft as thine enemy repenteth of the trespass wherewith he has trespassed against thee, thou shalt forgive him, until seventy times seven (D&C 98:39-40). The importance of the relationship between repentance and forgiveness is clearly shown in this revelation. Without repentance there is no basis for forgiveness, yet when one manifests true repentance, it becomes the duty of all concerned truly to forgive. The Lord has made it clear that we should forgive with all our hearts. This means wholehearted forgiveness with no reservations and not just a token or partial REPENTANCE forgiveness. The spirit of repentance must be in the heart of the one forgiving as well as, in the heart of the one to be forgiven. There is an impressive story told of wholehearted forgiveness as related to repentance. A man who was traveling in a railroad coach noticed that the young man seated next to him seemed to be very much depressed. Finally, the young man, in the course of a conversation, stated that he was a convict recently released from prison, and that his family had not visited him, nor had they written often. He had hoped that the reason they had not visited him was because they were too poor to travel, and perhaps they had not written because of their lack of education. However, he had written and asked them to put up a signal for him, so that when the train passed the farm, he would know whether or not he had been forgiven and would be welcomed home again. The sign was designated as a white ribbon to be placed in a large apple tree near the railroad tracks. As the train approached the area of the family farm, the young man became very anxious and apprehensive. Then he saw the apple tree. His eyes became bright with sudden tears. Not one—but the whole tree was white with ribbons. Blessed is he who has it in his heart to forgive the repentant soul even before forgiveness is requested. But sad it is for one who is unwilling to repent. While the Lord repeatedly has _ given assurance of his willingness to forgive those who repent, he has warned that insincerity and 649 SEPTEMBER 1965 the giving of lip service only will cancel all blessings earned and bring about sore judgments. He has counseled the repentant sinner as follows: I say unto you, I, the Lord, will not lay any sin to your charge: go your ways and sin no more; but unto that soul who sinneth shall the former sins return, saith the Lord your God (D&C 82: Ay In this connection it may be stressed that the principle of repentance is often associated with remorse, sorrow, regret or sadness for wrongdoing. But it is possible to avoid the heartache and sorrow that come from transgression by constantly exercising repentance in our hearts. The Jews used to mete out punishment for acts committed. The Savior taught that we should control our thoughts and impulses—factors that impel actions. He once said: "... Whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart" (Matthew 5:28). If thoughts and impulses are controlled, evil acts will never occur, hence never require repentance. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., once observed: 'The transgressions we do not begin, we will never have to stop." This statement offers us stimulation to refrain from evil-doing. Yet, since we are finite, mortal, and imperfect, we know we will make some mistakes that will require repentance. Should we not be grateful to the Lord that he has established that great principle that helps us to reinstate and reestablish ourselves with him and our fellow men?' What satisfaction comes to him who realizes that victory, through repentance, has attended his conquest of evil! And what joy fills his heart and soul when the blessing of forgiveness is granted him. Therefore, let us not procrastinate the time of our repentance, for by it we prepare ourselves to meet God as Alma says so well: For behold, this life is the time for men to prepare to meet God. Therefore, I beseech of you that ye do not procrastinate the day of your repentance until the end. Ye cannot say, when ye are brought to that awful crisis, that I will repent, that I will return to my God. Nay, ye cannot say this.... For behold, if ye have procrastinated the day of your repentance even until death, behold, ye have become subjected to the spirit of the devil, and he doth seal you his... (Alma 34:32-35). The Master Hand Maxine C. Greenwood Clear etched against the soft, gray brush strokes Of the Master Hand, Stark branches lend their tracery of darker hue In this vast, barren land. The distant peaks, Upthrust by mighty power in ages gone, Challenge the bold trespasser, Though they lead him on, And stand as guardians of this enigmatic plain Till God decrees abundance With life-giving rain. 650 The Golden Seed Leola Seely Anderson @ The sound of girlish laughter and the rise and fall of voices trying to remember that it was very, very late seemed to have ceased. Were the girls really asleep—at last? Slumber party! Where did such a gathering ever get its name? Better make a last check to be sure things had really settled down. They had—almost—except for Ann and that new blond girl whose family had moved into our block last spring. A pool of silver light from a sleepy moon etched their earnest young profiles in shadow. "Of course I really believe it!" Ann's voice left little doubt. "There is a God and he is alive, and he's on our side, and that makes us a majority in any crowd! You'll see when you go to 652 Seminary with me on Monday. Even if you don't quite understand, you can't miss the fact that all of us in the class believe ° it, and so does Brother Carter. He's wonderful! You know, you might find that 6:45 a. M. Hour the highlight of your whole day!" "Could I join the class?" Quietly I tiptoed away. A golden seed was being planted, and not for worlds would I have intruded. Just a year ago it hadn't been like this with my young neighbor. A busy young junior at high school, popular, loaded with activities, Ann had no extra time. An additional class at such an early hour was an unnecessary burden, her mother explained. The girl needed her sleep; her health must be considered; be- 4 to keep hey grades | know jt I ut listen to anUp for that holarshj she was Other "Semi ary family". Working fop he went to MI Fifteen-y ar-old ke 'Wilcox and Sunday School. I ays: "« orth it?, Seminary How w I know he Tguhas changed MY whole life! J Ments; Jy, et them both aS wasn't muc Interesteq InN the Parent as seminary InstrucChurch efore, but this class has tor, And I've UNCOvered Some t me Making folder 5 discussin facts. Religion With a; Sire t Prepare no for a Mission IS situation only requires that IS Sisters, Karen 4nd Sandra €y learn a type of aily Organito ate ding a total of Seven Zation time an energy Which years to ike's two Seminar Will be; Valuable + them fo th Say: "Ty as mad S aware of rest of their lives! Who we are and wh t we Would n € do want them to be like to S our day £00d Students Il, Surveys With that 800d f eling," have Shown hat the best gs Inary students—tho Most faith. Anp the Other of these three Ul in att dance and highest Ister Norma Wilcox, of San &Tades— algo Tate high academic. Bernardino, California Says: "A ally, In One high School] jin I see my children's lives grow Own district h fewer than beco Meaningfy] Mm the three Per cent La ter-day nt ays I have always Wanted th Students, four of the Valedictor. Be, J Ost Srateful foy lans in the ast eight years have teachers ho daily 81ve so much €en Seminary staduatesY of themselves to youth SO that More have hel Tesponsible Stumothers like me can be Proud dent Offices and €xcelled in both and happy." Scholarship and Sports. Since seems + become a he health OF the active eenMatter of ye] tive alues, what 4ger must e Considered ® we want Most for our chil Course, Seminarie In My areg €- dren? 61N from 6 ay to 7 0'clock at th The most Priceless gift We can atest. A lert mother wh 81ve our children Is Etowth in makes Sure th er family is holesome Spirituality, that - will le fenagers to lean aPPy lives of aster an effan. » Servic le Marriage lve Orrelating Suide: « Cease nd to exaltation In the kingdom 0 sleep longer nN Is needf 1 of Our Fath - arise €arly, tha Our bodie Every Cenager has the botenand yoy Ind ay be Invigorlal to g for hj Self the Same ated" (D 88:124). Msight sho by the ad whose Yet, five days a week, ever eminary lass g udied the life School da —IS it real] orth jt? F Samson, the gs Tong man f Tom my ten years' Perience, the Old SEPTEMBER 1965 young people had read the whole story as the scriptures unfold it —of a young man, a choice soul, richly endowed, ordained to be a deliverer of his people, who chose, instead, the road of selfishness, degeneration, suicide. The discussion in class was spirited. As the teacher pointed out that even Samson's last act, often heralded as a noble sacrifice, was only one of final vengeance, the broad-shouldered young athlete near the open window demanded, in Samson's defense: "Well, what would you do if they put your eyes out and worked you like an animal." And beside him, the quiet lad, looking out toward the stark, rocky hills, where the new day was beginning, answered softly, "What would you do if they nailed you to a cross?" Here, truly, a golden seed is springing up into a tree of life. Give Me an Upper Room Christie Lund Coles Dear Lord, give me an upper room Where | may come—even as you Came into a place of quietude — Where | may rest and pray, renew Myself. Where | may face my soul Quite unafraid; and, too, face thee, Freeing my spirit of its doubt, 'Its fear, its brief uncertainty. Let it be filled with utter love, Make it a sanctuary of grace, Of peace and beauty and of hope,. Setting my world's most tranquil pace. Here, let me recollect the words, Admonishing, ''Peace, peace, be still." Here, let me aspire to all that | may be,' Learning to know and love and live thy will. Shared Joy Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn My heart holds close your muted words, Too dear for songs— Their captive beauty treasured lies Where love belongs. 654 Frances C. Yost @ We were all glad when Mama took the dressmaking course sponsored by the Relief Society. We were glad for a lot of reasons. For one, it gave Mama three days of vacation with her friends. Mama is sort of isolated on our farm, and it did her the world of good to be able to chat and sew and try on with the other ladies taking the course. Instead of taking lunches, the sewing class went over to the school cafeteria and ate dinner the same as we students do. When I knew Mama was coming over for lunch, I sort of hung around the cafeteria after I had eaten, just to see Mama. She's so pretty, and she is always so glad to see any of our family. You would think she would get tired of us, but she doesn't seem to. Whenever Mama sees us, especially if she hadn't expected to, she seems as happy as if Santa Claus had dropped in unexpectedly in the middle of June. As I said, we were all happy when Mama took the dressmaking course. We are happy because we knew if Mama learned to sew she could make things for us. Mama had been too timid to try to sew. And It's mighty expensive to buy dresses for three girls, even if you watch the sales, as Mama always does. I remember so well Mama saying: "Now you girls help all you can with the work each morning so I can take the dressmaking class. I'm to make a cotton dress for myself, and when I've finished I'll know how to lay out a pattern, how to fit, how to sew, and how to press. And would you believe it, I'll learn a little about modeling! And then I'm going to teach all three of my girls everything I have learned. And besides that, I'm going to start right in sewing for you girls." You can imagine how excited and thrilled Margaret Ann and Nancy and I were when she said 655 SEPTEMBER 1965 that. Of course we pitched in and made beds and did dishes and everything before school, and after. Mama's dressmaking class went well, and Mama said she enjoyed every minute of it. We were all so proud when Mama wore the dress she made herself. Nancy and Margaret Ann and I could hardly wait until the day that Mama would take us all shopping for fabric for our first dresses. THEN one day when Mama was going to town she said: "Sherry Lynn, shine your shoes and wash real well, and put on your brown plaid dress, and you can go shopping with me. I believe if we will be extra careful on grocery buying this week, we can buy some fabric for a dress, and I'll try to make it."' I must have looked disappointed, instead of bubbling joyfully as Mama had expected, because Mama said: "Sherry Lynn, don't you want to go shopping for fabric for a dress?" "Ves, Mama, but." I didn't have the heart to tell Mama that Nancy and Margaret Ann and I had talked about all going shopping together for fabric for each of us. We had visualized Mama sewing up three dresses in quick time. In our dreams we had just forgotten that Mama had to plan and figure to buy extras, and that fabric for. Dresses for us three just wouldn't come all at once. We should have known that we would have to take turns, as we always did, with shoes and winter coats and things. I looked at Nancy. She's two 656 years older than I. I wouldn't want Nancy to feel hurt about not going to buy fabric. Nancy is so very pretty, and she's just as nice as she is pretty. But Nancy was looking happy about Mama's taking me. I looked at tiny Margaret Ann. She's two years younger than I. Why hadn't Mama promised her the first dress? Margaret Ann is a cute little pixie. You just can't help but love Margaret Ann. I thought Margaret Ann would break into tears and beg to have the first dress, but little as she is, she seemed happy that I had been chosen. "Do you want to go and pick out the fabric, Sherry Lynn, or would you rather I bought something in which you would look nice?" "Oh, I would rather go, Mama! It's just that I had hoped Margaret Ann and Nancy could go and get some yardage, too. If you would rather let one of them go, I could wait." Mother is always so lavish with praise if she thinks we are unselfish, and she hugged me close, and said I was a good girl, and she would like very much to take all three, but their time would come. I wondered why Mama had chosen me to be first on the dressmaking list. Then I remembered the book on psychology Mama had been reading which pointed out that the middle child was often neglected, and I knew why I had been picked out to be the first for a new dress. So that's how I happened to go shopping with Mama. We looked at material in all of the dry goods stores. Then there it was, the fabric I really wanted. It was draped around a manikin and it was beautiful! I wish that I could paint a picture of this yardage. If you will think of the prettiest single pink rose you have ever seen, add a couple of lovely green leaves and a tiny stem, and then lay that one rose on a pale pink background, you will have a swatch of the cloth. Now think of dozens of this same lovely pink rose, and you will have the yardage which I chose. Mama liked the fabric, too. I could tell by the light in her eyes and her big smile. But she frowned slightly when she saw the price per yard. It was more expensive than she had wanted to pay. Mama felt the cloth and studied it carefully. I knew she was taking a thread count. I didn't pester about buying this certain piece, but stood close by, with my eyes squeezed tightly shut, and said a silent prayer, ever so hopefully, that Mama would decide on this lovely rose fabric for my very own dress. When the clerk came up and asked if she could help, Mama said, '""We want a length of this material, but I want to buy a pattern first." My heart did some flip flops, I was so happy. Going through the pattern book was fun, too, and then we saw the exact pattern we wanted. Mama had the clerk get the pattern which was my age size, and we went back to the fabric counter. I was glad to get there because I feared someone might come and buy the whole bolt of lovely rose fabric while we were picking out a pattern. A DRESS FOR SHERRY LYNN The clerk was about to cut the cloth the length the pattern called for when Mama said, "Please give me an extra yard." I knew what Mama was thinking. Mama wasn't right sure of her dressmaking ability yet, and if she should make a mistake, she wanted enough cloth to cut another sleeve, or waist, or whatever might be needed. Mama let me carry the package after the clerk wrapped up the fabric, the zipper, the thread, and the pattern. I don't know when I have been so happy, as I was walking out of the store with it tucked under my arm. WHEN we went to the grocery store, Mama bought only the essentials. And I didn't tease for goodies, as I have sometimes. Valentine's Day was on its way, and Mama promised she would get the dress made by then. I could hardly wait for Mama to start working on the dress. Then one day, after Mama was caught up with the washing and ironing and the mending and darning, she started cutting out the dress. Since the pattern we had bought was just my size, Mama sewed while I was in school, and didn't have to fit it. When Nancy and Margaret Ann and I came home from school Mama said happily: 'Well, I have your dress all finished, Sherry Lynn." It was beautiful hanging there on a hanger. The dress had a fitted bodice, and a really full gathered skirt. The sleeves came almost to the elbow with a ruffle around the edge. Because the dress had the lovely rosebuds all over, it just didn't need extra 657 SEPTEMBER 1965 trimming. My heart almost stoppped_ with rapture as [| slipped into the dress, while my sisters and Mother watched. "Oh, dear!" I looked at myself in the mirror, The dress hung big and queer, Mama was so disappointed I did not say a word. She started pinching in the waist, and trying to raise the skirt, but we all knew to make the dess fit me, would be more work than she had already done to make it. "Let Nancy try it on, Mama." I must admit I was fighting tears, but I wasn't going to break down and cry in front of Mama when she had worked so hard to make it. I let the dress fall off me, and handed it to Nancy who put it on. A dress just couldn't have fit anyone better than that dress fit Nancy. "It's yours, Nancy," I said, smiling. I was happy for her to have it, but disappointed. Oh, let's face it, I was so disappointed I could hardly stand it. Nancy stood sort of primping in front of the big mirror, but she said, 'Sherry Lynn, I just could not take it from you. Mama, let's put it away until Sherry grows into it." Mama's mind was racing ahead of all of us. Sherry Lynn, and I haven't wasted a speck. Actually I cut it out to advantage. Pll just use some pale pink and Dll design you a dress out of what is left, and it will be really clever." Mama picked up a pencil and started sketching on an envelope. The dress she designed, I wish you could see, but I'll try to tell you about it. The yoke was of 658 plain pink and on each shoulder was appliqued a single rosebud cut from the fabric. Then the lower part of the bodice was of the rosebud material. A full overskirt with scallops was of the rosebud fabric over a plain pink skirt. We could all see at a glance that the dress Mama had designed would be just as lovely and quite a bit fancier and cleverer than the one she had just' finished. All three of us jumped for joy and shouted, "Make it, Mommie, just as you have designed it," Mama had a lot to do, but the day before Valentine's day she finished the dress, When we came home the dress was hanging, just waiting for me to slip into it. It was so lovely, I could just see myself at school looking like a valentine all wrapped in pink and rosebuds. Nancy took the dress from the hanger, and held it for me to slip into, as I hurried to take off my brown plaid dress, "Nancy! I'm smothering, [ can't get through!" "Oh, dear, it's too little," Mama moaned. And it was too small. There just wasn't any use trying to shove big old me into it, so I took it off before I tore it, T held up the dress, just loving it, and looked at cute little Margaret Ann. "Put it on, honey," I said. Margaret Ann slipped into it, and it fit perfectly. She looked as cute and beautiful and lovely as a cupid could. I'm not selfish, and I was really glad for Nancy to have the first dress, and for Margaret Ann to have the second one, but I was so disappointed I knew I would cry like a baby if I stayed there a second longer. I ran clear upstairs and hid myself deep in the closet. Hidden away all by myself, I cried and cried. After all the tears in my system were cried out, I started to analyze myself. I wasn't crying because Nancy and Margaret Ann had new dresses. I had wanted that all the time. I was crying because I had told all the girls in my class that on Valentine's Day I was going to wear a dress Mama had made for me. I just couldn't face the girls at school with my same old dark brown dress. But there in the closet, I decided I would have to, and I crawled out of my hiding place and washed up and went down for supper. THe next moming Nancy turned over in our bed and looked at me. I could tell she hadn't done much sleeping either. Then she spoke sort of timidly and softly so no one would hear. "Sherry Lynn, do you mind if I wear the rose petal. Dress for Valentine's Day?" "Of course not. I want you to wear it. It was made to be worn on Valentine's Day, and it is yours to wear." Margaret Ann, sleeping in the little single bed next to us, turned over then and spoke to me. "Sherry Lynn, is it all right if I wear my new dress today, too?" "Of course it's all right, Margaret Ann. I'd feel bad if you didn't wear it." I laughed and shrugged my shoulders, as I pulled on my same old plaid dress, then slipped on A DRESS FOR SHERRY LYNN my work apron. I hurried down first to help Mama with the breakfast.: As I walked into the dining room there hung my white Sunday blouse. I should have known Mama would stay up and wash and iron it so I would look nice for Valentine's Day, too. But can you imagine my surprise when I saw beside the blouse a bright red corduroy jumper! Mama was smiling ever so sweetly when she spoke. "Sherry Lynn, I've stayed up half the night making this jumper, and if it doesn't fit, I'll chew the whole thing up like our billy goat would." I didn't have to be told to take off my dress and try it on. As I unpeeled my old brown dress Mama stood ready to slip the jumper over my head. I smoothed the skirt and moved in front of the big mirror and then just gasped. It fit perfectly, and I looked really neat and tailored and trim. I had thought lately I was too big for kisses, but I knew then that no one is too old to show love and appreciation. I turned and hugged Mama hard, and kissed her on the cheek. As I did, her salty tears and mine blended into great big tears. But we didn't care, we just hugged each other even more. As we left home to go to school with our valentines in a box, Nancy and Margaret Ann and I were singing, '""My Funny Little Valentine."" And in my heart I was thanking my Heavenly Father for giving me such a wonderful mother, and giving us all three Valentine dresses at once. 659 Shirley Thulin Chapter 5 Synopsis: Joan Morgan, superintendent of nurses at Hillcrest Hospital, is criticized by her roommate Kathy Kirk, and by Dr. Desmond, for trying to shock Tom, a young patient, out of his despondency and to think of his possibilities. Kathy invites Joan to spend a week end at the Kirk family farm. While there, Tom's mother, Mrs. Aines, tells Joan that she is following the wrong course and is doing harm to Tom, instead of helping him. M As the months passed, Joan found herself enjoying her visits with Kathy's folks more than she felt she should. She enjoyed the big bright moon and the clean fresh air, but, most of all, she was growing very close to little Joey. Today, however, Joan wasn't thinking about the farm. She was having a hard time concentrating on much of anything, because she knew that David had been trying to get Tom to show some interest in studying. "If you want me to, I'll coach you in English," she had heard David tell him. But so far, Tom would not commit himself. Joan kept watching for David to finish his morning's work and come to her floor, because she had a surprise for Tom. If only it 660 works, she thought... But it will... It's just got to. By noon she still hadn't seen David and was beginning to wonder if he were at work, when she saw him waiting for the elevator. "David!'" She hurried down the hall. "David, guess what? I had a sudden inspiration yesterday. I went to a bookstore and got an English workbook... You know, the kind they use in high school? What do you think?" "T don't know, Miss Morgan, but it sure is worth a try." "IT want you to take it to him. Are you sure it's English that he needs help with the most?" "No, I only guessed. It's English for most of us fellows. I'll take it in to him on my lunch hour. Thanks, you're great." As the elevator doors closed be- hind David, Joan smiled to herself. I'm far from being great, she thought, but still, I feel I really am accomplishing a great deal here. I feel that I am an efficient head nurse. She walked with a confident step to the end of the hall where the second floor nurses' station was in quite a hum of business. As she approached, the voices died down a bit. The quiet laughing stopped. "Two-forty-four is in quite a lot of pain. When did she have the last hypo?' Joan asked, reaching for the chart wheel. Then she caught sight of the look in both Miss Jackson's and Kathy's eyes. She didn't need to look up to know that Doctor Desmond was somewhere near. She busied herself with the writing on the card and pretended not to notice. I hope it doesn't show in my eyes as it does in theirs, she thought. By now, she knew her heart gave an extra little sigh whenever he was near, and this upset her. I'm too old for a schoolgirl crush, she kept telling herself. And she felt sure that's all it was, just an attraction. She also felt that he had made her feel this way on purpose. The way he had of looking at her, of teasing her Just the same way he did all the others, she knew... Still, she felt he was especially attracted to her. Sometimes when their eyes met, she could feel he wasn't teasing... Even when he was scolding her, the message was there. Doctor Desmond was talking to Kathy now, and the sound of his voice, so deep, so sincere made Joan all warm inside. That's RING AROUND HER HEART pretty good, she thought. He's talking medical terms to another girl, and I get all flustered! She put the chart in its place and turned to go when he spoke her name. "Miss Morgan." She turned toward him. "Have you _ finished your rounds?" "Not completely." She didn't want to tell him that she still had Tom to visit, but was purposely waiting until after David had been there. She knew that to mention Tom's name always brought a strained feeling between them. "Doctor Niles wanted me to ask you to come in and see = when you're through." "Oh, thank you. Did he say what he wanted me for?" The young doctor smiled. ''No, he didn't. Have you been breaking any hospital regulations?" Joan quickly looked at Kathy and Miss Jackson. She couldn't tell for sure if their smiles were like his, good naturedly laughing with her, or if they were secretly laughing at her. As Joan stepped into Tom's room, she was disappointed. She had thought he would be busy with the exercises in the workbook. She had pictured him all smiles, all enthused. But, instead, the shades were still drawn, and the workbook was on his night stand. "Hi, Tom," "Hello." "How would you like to sit in your easy chair for a little while today?" "How would you like to quit being so impossible? You know she said. 661 SEPTEMBER 1965 I can't sit up in a chair." "Oh, but you can. The casts come off today." "Really? Why didn't somebody tell me?" "You didn't ask. Usually the first thing a patient in a cast asks is, 'how long does this thing have to stay on?' but you haven't asked, so nobody thought to tell you." "Miss Morgan what will it be like? I mean to have the casts off" "Well, for one thing, you will weigh a lot less, and it will be easier for the nurses to make your bed, and we can help you to sit in a chair because with the casts off your legs, your knees will bend. Your back will feel weak where it has been supported by the cast, but you'll feel a lot better." Tom was smiling. For just a brief moment, he was_ smiling. Then the old cloud came back to his eyes. "Yeah," he said, "big deal. So I can sit in a chair. Then what?" "Then you can put the tray across your lap and put your English book on the tray, and..." "Oh, so that's it. You gave David that book to give to me. Well, you can take it back." "Now, Tom, it's not going to hurt you to just do a little each day. It will help to pass the time away. The exercises start out real easy, see?" she picked the book up and walked towards him. "Yeah. I know... Real easy. Well, I can't even do the real easy ones. Now, what does that do to your theory, Miss Morgan?" Joan pressed her lips together. She felt like shaking Tom. She 662 felt like shaking him real hard, and she felt like crying. She did neither. She just quietly placed the book back on the bedside table and walked out. Joan started to walk down the hall toward the nurses' station, but Doctor Desmond and the nurses were still there, so she slipped out the hall door and went down the steps. She was discouraged about Tom, and she was angered at the way all the young nurses made such a fuss over Dean Desmond. What makes me the most angry of all, she thought, is the way he just stands there enjoying it so much. Who does he think he is, anyway? She asked herself. After all, he isn't the only doctor in this hospital but he is the best looking one, she had to admit. WJOAN opened the outside door and felt the warmth of the afternoon sun on her, giving comfort. She hadn't stopped for lunch, and now she was too upset to be hungry. David was watering the roses by the south entrance. She went over to him. ""This part of your job, too?" she asked him. "Oh, I do a little bit of everything. Have you talked to Tom?" "Yes. He isn't interested. He makes me so angry." "TI know. When I was there, he told me I was just wasting my time. Said he'd never be able to pass the entrance exams. I told him that's what I was there for, to help him." "Oh, David, there has to be something we can do." "Maybe he's worried about money for college. He didn't say so, but I bet his mother doesn't have much money, what with be- Mg a widow and al] those kids » €cond floor When she remem. "Oh, David! | ll bet that's bered + Doct iles had Why didn't J think 9 that? Wanted to see her. She Wondered naturally Wouldn't Say anythin What he wanted. She smiled to He Wouldn't wa t us W. Herself 4S she rem bereq what Well, we can fix that Ina h ean ha Said, aboy disobeying There Should be some kind of hospital] regulations. She knew Scholarshj or grant or something She didn't have Worry about We can pet for him, b id, hat, still, Maybe she d slipped for the first time, I fee aS though n Something She thought. Wwe've come throug the Woods," tapped at hj door, and Joan hurried insid As she there was no answer She turned left the levator sh almost ° g0 whe he saw him Walkin bumped Into K th Oward her Strange feelin "Well, Where a you going Came ove er. He's fine look. Such a hurry?" mg man, she thought If nly he "Oh, Kathy, I think David nd was 't so brisk and all for busjI have made some Progress y, th nes Om. He see ed Interested "Hello, 18S Morgan, Let's go foing to School, but then all of IMside, JT ave some things,. Oak Sudden € changed. David < hope [ haven' been neglect. € thinks Tom Cooled off becay Y work, Doctor Niles," f his family' finances >.. SO "On ¢ Contrary ere, sit 4M going to find out about, | | -" here I just have SOme applica. "Joan, I wish You were right, tions J t you to look Over. We ut. Oh, Oan, Money has eed tw or thr new nothing to do with ' ever ugh nurses; rust fund Ou are do €& a fine Job, h ion, here jg plenty Mis Morgan," Of money fo his Schooling y "There js Oney? Then why?" TOR Niles | ked at her and 'Could that he Just wants 'S gaze held €rs. She felt as if you to leay him alo ® as he wanted ay Somethin eeps telling you." » but he ai; € took "Kath > I can't quit. T jy the p Pers he anded to her. Now there's Way to Set him 7 ese Pplications re back 6 that farm," cent?" she asked "Well, your Persistence Is to a I think You should look be admired » you are asking them ove d give m the names = 2 lot of artache. What Of three four yoy thi Sound about you heory not to become e best," too attached to your batients?" "T will, Doctor lles." She took °8N couldn't answer that one. The Papers and Stood up. She hadn't felt as thoug sh "Oh, Iss Morgan I have Just were becoming to attached 4 been in om's room I adn't Tom, not until K t Mentioned Seen him for 4 Couple of days. It, Se could se that it was What hay tru SEPTEMBER 1965 up at the Doctor. His eyes were soft, and it seemed to her that he was almost ready to smile that big smile of his again, but it was just a pleasant smile a little smile. "Do you know what he was doing when I got there?" 'Nie.' "He was sitting in a chair with some kind of a schoolbook on his lap." "He was?" "Yes. He said you had given him the book." "Views... I " "TI wouldn't get my hopes up too high, Miss Morgan, these cases are changeable, but I think you have made good progress." "Oh, thank you, Doctor. I hope so." "Now, if you'll just look those papers over this evening, I'll expect a report in the morning." Joan thanked him. "T'll have them ready," she said and tried to hold her voice calm, though there was a happy little tune trying to bubble from between the words she spoke. Suddenly Joan felt hungry. She hurried to the lunchroom. I hope they haven't closed, I'm so late for the lunch hour, she thought. She also hoped she would see someone to talk to. Doctor Dean Desmond would do just fine. She wanted to tell him how Tom was.... She wanted to let him know that, at last, she was getting through to Tom. Joan entered the room and looked around. There were a lot of late diners. She spotted Miss Jackson and Doctor Desmond sitting in a corner of the room. She decided not to bother them. She had picked up a tray when she heard it—the piercing sound of the ambulance. At first it was so small a sound that she knew the ambulance was still blocks away from the hospital, then as it came closer, the sickening scream filled her whole being. She quickly looked around her. No one else had seemed to hear it. Everyone was still eating and quietly talking. Why shad the sound cut through her like this? She certainly had heard sirens before. She put her tray down and hurried towards the emergency entrance. The ambulance was carrying someone she knew... She was sure of that, for long ago, in the night, she had heard the siren just like this. (To be continued) SED French Twist June F. Krambule Little hands with sculptor's way, What fame you'll someday win. | find it evidenced each day: The shapes | find my hairpins in! 664 Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. May Case, of Clovis, California, has been a newspaper woman longer than any other in the United States. Now ninety-one years old, she still writes a weekly column for the Clovis Independent. She began to work seventy-eight years ago, and at sixteen she started helping her just-wed husband on the Purcell Register, Oklahoma Territory, which he was just founding. She was interviewing Indian chiefs when Nelly Bly (supposedly America's first woman reporter) was sailing around the world in a balloon. She was a good friend of Geronimo. Miss Eva B. Adams, of Wonder, Nevada, director of the United States Mint since 1961, is the woman who will Oversee the first major change _ in American coinage since 1792. Probably about thirty million coins will roll off the mints. A great deal of nickel and copper will be used to relieve the shortage of silver. Mrs. Ann Slattery, a Utah woman, became America's champion professional ladies' bowler last winter and has received many honors. Patricia Hunt has been editor of the Nature Department of Life for more than ten years. She goes to endless trouble to search out nature's strangest and most interesting specimens, which have a scientific bearing. In order to get underwater pictures for a story on whales, she rented a private submarine with a picture window. Dr. Marie A. Valdes-Dupena has been conducting autopsies on cases of unexplained baby deaths in Philadelphia. More than 200 mystery "'crib deaths" have occurred in Philadelphia in recent years, and also all over the country. Some unknown form of disease appears to be responsible for many of these. So far, Dr. Valdes-Dupena and her international colleagues have been unsuccessful in determining the Causes, but they are hoping for a_ breakthrough. Dr. Elizabeth M. Drews is a nationally esteemed authority on gifted children, who has been working closely for the past three years with Michael Grost, the eleven-year-old freshman at Michigan State University, considered "'one of the most spectacularly productive minds in the history of the human race.'' He is also one of the ''nicest" children imaginable. Mrs. Helen Waterhouse, eminent journalist of Akron, Ohio, who won a ffirstplace national award for her articles on highway safety, was killed on June 12, in her home town, in an automobile accident on the highway. Mrs. Waterhouse, an expert pilot, was one of the first women aviation editors of a newspaper in the United States. Many of her articles, written on assignment from Korea, Japan, Indo-China, Formosa, Hong Kong, Manila, Cuba, and Dienbienphu, were syndicated all over the United States. 665 chord in the hearts of the wife and husband and their eyes seek each other out in the midst of the crowd in a warm, shared feeling. This is a manifestation of a marital belonging. As the character matures there is still the need of belonging, of sharing, but a realization comes to one that one's belonging is not limited to this life. Tender and loved memories bridge the gap between those in mortality and those who have passed beyond mortality. Belonging takes on eternal meaning, and the eternity of the sealing power. What if a convert has come into the Church alone, what if she has left father, mother, sister and brother, what if she never finds her life's companion? As a member of the Church she ''belongs."' Recently a daughter was leaving her father who was not very well. As the daughter and her small daughter went down the stairs, the mother said, ''l hate to leave him alone.'' The small one spoke up, ''He isn't alone, Heavenly Father is with him."' That is the ultimate belonging, and the Heavenly Father is always there for any of his children who seek him. He is there for all, but only as one seeks him does one realize it. The Savior is there also— the Advocate with the Father. The greatest belonging will be to belong to the celestial family. The Lord has said, ''It is not meet that the things which belong to the children of the kingdom should be given to them that are not worthy"' (D&C 41:6). Every convert to the Church through baptism is heir to the things which belong to the children of the kingdom. There is no loneliness, no aloneness in the kingdom of God—every one will belong forever. —M. C. S. Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner irene C. Lloyd Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Winniefred S. Manwaring Eina P. Haymond Mary R. Young Leone G. Layton Bianche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Eisa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth 8. Winters LaRue H. Roselli Jennie R. Scott Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Giedhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith IN MEMORIAM Leah Dunford Widtsoe February 24, 1874 — June 7, 1965 Leah Eudora Dunford Widtsoe, wife of the late John A. Widtsoe, a member of the Council of the Twelve, passed away in Salt Lake City, Utah, June 7, 1965. She was the daughter of Dr. Alma B. Dunford and Susa Young Gates, a gifted pioneer writer, a former editor of The Relief Society Magazine, and a daughter of President Brigham Young. Sister Widtsoe attended the University of Utah, Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, New York, and was graduated from Brigham Young University in 1889. She was a gracious and cultured woman, carrying out the many responsibilities which came to her during the time that her husband studied in Europe, served as President of Utah State University, and the University of Utah, as well as traveling with Dr. Widtsoe to his many assignments as a General Authority of the Church. She was the author of several books and many articles in the field of domestic science and arts, and was co-author of The Life Story of Brigham Young. Among her many honors were an honorary Doctor of Humanities Degree from Brigham Young University, and her election as a member of the Utah Hall of Fame. She will long be remembered as a distinguished daughter of pioneer families, and as a loving and devoted wife and mother. The General Board of Relief Society extends sympathy to the two daughters of Sister Widtsoe, Mrs. Ann W. Wallace and Mrs. Eudora W. Durham, to their families, and to the wide circle of friends who have known and loved Leah D. Widtsoe. From a Schoolroom Window Bernice Ames The teacher asked Jane to spell ''foretold,'' But meadows below her are brimming with gold, And the voice in the room is drifting again As cicadas shrill like a scratchy pen. Tom should explain the Civil War, But a groundhog hole, unnoticed before In the field outside, makes his fingers itch, And two crows hang over a muddy ditch. The window stays the spirit's return From summer fields to facts children learn. 668 RECORD WITH COMMENTARY FOR LITERATURE LESSONS AVAILABLE Through Brigham Young University A twelve-inch, long-playing record (33% rpm) containing selected excerpts from the poems and short Stories included in the 1965-66 literature course of Study, is now available. Included, also, is a brief commentary describing and analyzing the selections. The record is packaged in an album, with label and dust jacket, price $3.50 postpaid, and may be obtained from the Media Development and Marketing Department, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah 84601. (See advertisement on page 719 of this issue of the Magazine.) Creek in Autumn Ethel Jacobson Tumbling from distant heights, The creek careens and lurches, Roistering on its way Between the copper birches. Where burnished trunks bend low, White water swirls and falls, And a tawny chipmunk chatters And a tanager Calls; And the spendthrift, hurrying stream Flings largesse left and right, When autumn rains down birch leaves, New-penny bright. 669 RS w A spring garden, like anything worthwhile, needs some foresight, intelligence, and a bit of work. For the experienced gardener and for the best results, the planning for next year's garden commences when this year's garden is in bloom. At that time a person can see the successes and failures and plan _ accordingly. Then, too, it is necessary to start early to get the plants ready. Even with bulbs, it is advisable to order in May or June, if one is to be sure of getting what he wants at good prices. Also, with other plants for a spring garden, it is necessary to get them underway before summer is too far advanced. For example, if you are going to use pansies or violas, which are generally next to bulbs, as the main feature of a spring garden, then the seed must be ordered and planted before mid-July. If you are going to use primroses in next year's garden, then you should start to divide the plants after they are through blooming. So a it is usually good to plan about a year ahead. However, if you are one who has not started until now, do not despair. If you take a few definite steps at once you can get along very well. Preparing for a Springtime Garden Irvin T. Nelson Director of Landscaping, Temple Square, Church Historic Sites, Foreign Temples, Mormon Pavilion, World's Fair Member, White House Conference on National Beauty DPV LIOVLDPOVLDPOVLPVLPOV LPO! LPO VLO OLD LP VLPVLPOVLPOVAPOOLP VLD LPV LPL OLPOLP VLD VLD LP: Transparencies by the Author DPV LDV LPL PV LPDVLPDOV LDL LPL DPV LPCLPVLD LY? — = ——, SELECTION OF PLANTS You must first decide what you want in your spring garden. Usually bulbs of some sort are an immediate choice—hyacinths, tulips, daffodils, narcissi, and a score of others. If you are uncertain of what you really want, get some good bulb catalogues or books, or talk with some experienced gardeners for ideas. Visit nurseries or stores featuring bulbs as soon as they are on display. Here you can get ideas and, which is often important, find out how much various things are going to cost. Remember, for the small garden, great numbers of bulbs are not necessary. By proper selection of varieties and colors, and by wise grouping, you can get splendid results. I 670 e ut any Colors jn rmonize With wha €n when Using mj re alike and whj an of th When plants are Properly g eeling Which e l Is important element in ably Wel] drained. OW bulbs the first Mary bulb has suffic; You must » Of course will r ooming Period bs can nd SEPTEMBER 1965 leaves die away naturally. After digging, some of the bulbs might be large enough to replant the following fall. Hyacinths, which are usually planted six to eight inches deep, can remain in the ground for long periods and give good results—eight, ten, or twelve years. Daffodils can be left in the same place almost indefinitely. When put in the right place, they tend to naturalize themselves. I have seen them in woodland gardens for over twentyfive years. Some good varieties of tulips (among the thousands) which harmonize in color are: Pink—Eros (lovely double), Smiling Queen, Geo. H. Recks, Princess Elizabeth, Pride of Zwanenburg, Barbara Pratt; Yellows—Niphetos (lemon), Mother's Day, Mrs. Scheepers; White—Mt. Tacoma (double), Zwanenburg; Blue—The Bishop (still good); George Grappe (tall lavender). GROWING PANSIES AND VIOLAS It is generaly difficult to get a wide selection of pansies on the market. Most growers have only mixed varieties. So some gardeners grow what they want. If you are going to grow your own plants, you must sow the seeds about the middle of July. The seed beds, which are usually shaded, must be carefully watched. After you have scattered the seed on the ground, we suggest that you cover it with sand. It isn't too difficult to keep the sand moist, and it is especially effective when the plants start to grow. Wilting off seldom occurs when the ground is covered with sand. When the seedlings have four leaves on them, they can be transferred to temporary bedding boxes and planted six inches apart. They can then be left in these beds until early spring when they should be transferred to the garden. In the fall, after the first heavy frost, it is a good thing t cover the seed beds with clean straw or salt hay. This will preveni the ground from alternately freezing and thawing, which tends to lift the plants out of the ground. It requires some skill and care to grow pansies and violas from seed, but it is done by many gardners and is a very rewarding experience after you learn how to do it. Pansy seed can be obtained from most ordinary seed houses, but one of the best places for you to contact, I think, is Harold's Pansy Gardens, at Grants Pass, Oregon. These people prepare some instructions for amateurs which are very helpful in the growing of pansies and violas. So when you write for the catalogue be sure to ask for planting instructions. Some choice pansies are (consult catalogues for colors) Lake of Zurich, Ullswater Blue, Beaconsfield, Heaven's Queen, Paydirt, Luna, Jungfrau, Raspberry Rose. Among the best violas are: Jersey Gem, Blue Perfection, Chantryland, Papelco. Remember in growing pansies and violas that they are very heavy feeders. They need plant food. If a little barnyard manure can be (Continued on page 674) 672 A Spring Promise Is Kept—Seven varieties of pansies and violas, five hyacinths, and a few rocks complement each other. The Abundant Generosity of Spring in a Lovely Setting. Left: Shape, Texture, Color, and the Pleasure of Sunlight and Shadows at the Mormon Pavilion at the World's Fair. Right: Wallflowers and Forget-menots at the London Temple. Worked into the soil before you transfer the plants to the garden, the results are good. Feeding with commercial fertilizer, of course, gives splendid results, also. But in any case remember that these plants need to be properly fed. FORGET-ME-NOTS AND WALLFLOWERS Forget-me-nots can be a very important and pleasing plant in the garden and are used by many people. When once grown in places where there is shade, and where the ground is not disturbed too much, they seed themselves from year to year. There are pink varieties, as well as blue, which add to the interest. Wallflowers, in different colors, are coming to be used more and more in the home garden, as is also the little English daisy. European gardeners get splendid results from these plants. Forget-me-nots and wallflowers can generally be obtained from any commercial grower; however, you can grow these also. Aot, Pape v » ": 24g; we, a Reflected Glory—Love's Labor Not Lost a. <j A Welcome Home at the Feet of "Singing Trees." Reward B® On December 4, 1964, many hundreds of hours were climaxed by a decorated Christmas home tour, during which 700 women toured five Latterday Saint homes. Early in 1964, Whitney Ward Relief Society, under the direction of Joyce Lund, had the idea of selecting five homes, decorating each with a different holiday theme, and inviting the public to see the homes. Behind the tour idea was the purpose of exhibiting and selling the year's work in handicraft —in other words, a dressed up showcase for the annual bazaar. Realizing that this was a large undertaking for one Relief Society, nearby Arden Ward, with Uarda Crockett as President, was asked to join in the project. EMR RR KK HK HY Cristinas Home tour Whitney and Arden Wards, American River Stake, California Lois S. Fife, President, American River Stake Relief Society KM MO OO OH Teer ee ee ereeeee eee eens: He MMM MH MH HM HH YH HF Robert Larson Home, Arden Ward Theme — Formal Christmas Dinner An arrangement by the door, consisting of a styrofoam tree, with the base wired to a rattan basket covered with artificial greens, red satin, bells, pine cones, and beads. Articles sold in this home were dish towels, pillow cases, sweaters, aprons, and other sewed articles. Ar er _ ste —eugtee Se H. Holling Lowe Home, Arden Ward Theme — "Deck the Halls" This is a very modern home, and so the decorations were modern. The tree above the fireplace and the ornaments hanging from the stairways are fashioned in shapes of Christmas ornaments, cut from cardboard and covered on both sides with burlap in pastel colors to complement the furnishings of the home. Designs on the ornaments were constructed of assorted sequins, silver and gold sprayed toothpicks, doilies, jewels, rickrack, beads, braid, felt, gold and silver seals, and ribbon. Table displays handmade items for sale. Ronald Andrew Home, Whitney Ward Theme — Old-Fashioned Children's Party To bring out the children's party idea, the drummer boy motif was represented, beginning at the entry to the home. The drummer boy in the picture is made of plywood and boughs. Accordingly, three homes in Whitney Ward and two in Arden Ward were featured. White tree markers were used on the lawns of the five homes for identification. Tickets were sold at $1 each. Over 1500 handmade bazaar items were on display. Each ward had a coded ticket and received the money from the sale of its own items, as well as the money from its own ticket sales. Mutual expenses were shared. Local newspapers were most cooperative, and over a dozen pictures and stories were used. Reactions of the women making the tour were highly enthusiastic and full of praise. More important, however, was the fact that each ward noticed an increase in attendance and participation. Inactive women and working mothers called up and volunteered to make articles. Each home was decorated in accordance with a particular theme and in keeping with the decor itself. The decorations were also sold, to be picked up after the completion of the home tour. Because one of the purposes of Relief Society is to help make our homes more attractive, an "idea"? Sheet was distributed to guests, telling how to make the decorations. 678 Tablecloth fashioned to resemble a drum. Soldier favors made from waxed paper tubes. The _ table, later, was set with red, white, and blue cups and plates, with streamers running from the soldiers to the ball above. The ball is made of chicken wire, covered with boughs and decorated with twinkling lights and toy items. Natural green tree decorated with red_ velvet bows and_ candy canes. Five matching handmade stockings hang above the fireplace. The train (to hold small packages) is made from cardboard cartons of various sizes and shapes, covered with Christmas wrappings... Woth wee? Fhod J Vern Swanson Home, Whitney Ward Theme — Christmas Delicacies Christmas baked _ goods were sold in the family room of this home. Highlighting the theme was an old-fashioned cookie tree. Notice the star on top and Santa in the center. The mantel in the living room carried out a religious scene of Mary and Jesus cut in paper sculpture, with heads in gold foil, mounted on turquoise velvet, and surrounded by a lovely white angel's hair wreath, pink balls, small pink flowers, and_ gold leaves. Boughs and twinkling lights completed the arrangement. Cliff Ekstrom Home, Whitney Ward Theme — A Christmas Wedding The tree in the living room represented a bride's tree, with ornaments made of plastic doilies cut in half and sewed into cone shapes, accented by gold doves and balls. The tree has a satin skirt with velvet bows. Gift items — bags, dolls, toys, and colorful decorative articles for the home. HUCK -l! 7] cm first row A center PIQUE shoe _ SH NZ 4 1) r} UY ( aS eS — | | XQ — peewee GeseeeesPeen _j..~$--~---4 wa het mii ao \ =| ae ee as ree oS _— —— weet Se = 3--= ee en Se —— — t sees et | ae 4 — ' — UJ § 4 ' center first row 684 Make a Drum Tree for Holidays Florence C. Williams Transparency by Hal Rumel A many-branched miniature tree, decorated with a half dozen or so drums, makes an attractive and unusual decorative feature for the hollidays—any holiday—Constitution Day in September, Columbus Day in October, Thanksgiving Day in November, the Christmas season, or into February for Lincoln's or Washington's birthday. For the summer season, a Fourth of July or a Pioneer Day occasion can be made colorful and festive with a drum tree. If you want the drum tree for a table centerpiece or for placing near the fireplace or on a mantel, it may be a small tree, but if you want to place it in the hall to speak a welcome to your guests, or if you wish the tree to brighten a corner of the family room or the living room, then it may be larger, such as an oak tree branch, an elm tree branch, or an apple tree branch of suitable shape and coloring. Cut the branch in length and shape to suit your purposes and place it in a can of sand to hold it upright and solid. If the color and texture of the wood are not particularly attractive, the branch may be sprayed with white enamel or gold paint, which will make a contrast with the red, white, and blue colors of the drum. The decorative drums may be made large or small to harmonize with the tree, and, if it is for a children's party or a dinner party, smaller drums make colorful and unusual favors. The following directions are given for making a drum 3 inches in diameter: From a circular-shaped core of styrofoam (3 inches in diameter) cut a piece 21%4 inches wide to make the drum. With strong, clear glue, attach a circle of white felt to each end of the drum shape. Cover the circumference of the styrofoam with dark blue velvet and glue narrow red velvet ribbon to each edge, leaving a loop (11% inches) of the red velvet ribbon for hanging the drum to the tree. Then glue an edging of gold-colored cord between the blue velvet and the red velvet ribbon, and, for decoration, attach the gold braid to form triangles around the drum. Hold the points of the triangles with dark blue headed pins. For drumsticks, cut swab sticks in lengths of about 314 inches and glue the sticks into round wooden beads. Cross the two drumsticks and glue to the white felt at the side of the drum where the loop is attached. Make as many drums as you want for decorative purposes or favors, and then make some extra drums for Christmas presents for the children, or some very small drums to decorate gift packages. 685 686 Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Four-Year-Old Walker of fences Percher in trees Bearer of bruises And torn dungarees, Talker to robins Searcher of loots Sharer of cookies With Boston-bull brutes, Lael W. Hill Learner of blossoms Bringer of song Sleeper not often And never for long, Spurner of grown hands Clinger to hearts Keeper of heaven— In bits and in parts. CEGGGGNG SSOGSG ~~ GNONGNGS m@ Have you considered inviting RRRRRRRG friends over for a late summer breakfast or brunch? There is a special charm about morning gettogethers—a freshness of atmosphere, a lilt of spirit. As the last - glorious days of late summer ebb ) into autumn, for most families it means the approach of school, ) loved ones departing, and a change of pace and activity. So Hazel S. Cannon why not set aside a "lazy" mornFormer Member, General ing to extend hospitality? Board of Relief Society This type of entertaining is fun Transparencies by Hal Rumel for the hostess as well as for the Adults' Table: Accessories, Carole 7.: E. Cannon guests, since the preparation lS Children's Table: Accessories, Jane essentially simple and informal. S. Tibbals and Doralee D. Madsen It is usually less expensive also. |;. CLOOGOGOOGOEEOEOOEOEEEEOO. Morning parties, however, can be pretty as you please, whimsical as you wish, and can call forth your most original ideas. Many doahead foods may be used (it is surprising how many partial food preparations can be made the day before); the table can be set and often the centerpiece arranged, leaving just last minute preparations for the morning of the breakfast. If the meal is held closer to lunchtime it becomes heartier, partakes of both breakfast and luncheon foods, and is called brunch. Late Summer Brunch Fresh Fruit Bowl Creamed Breast of Chicken Rice Ring or Jane's Elegant Rice Casserole Broccoli Parmesan Carrot Posies Celery Federal Heights Cinnamon Rolls Butter Apricot Marmalade COME FOR BREAKFAST There is no greater bargain for your morning meal than summer's bounty of luscious fruits, flavor-best vegetables, and lovely, home-grown flowers, Used for the above brunch is a basket of late summer garden roses in yellow tones on an inexpensive, striped India madras cloth. Danish china with a blue flower motif and bright blue glassware hold the brunch fare. Starchy vegetable will be ready for lusty appetites upon your return. For a nostalgic brunch fill] your house with the tantalizing fragrance of baking cinnamon rolls as your guests gather. "But," you protest, "hot bread for breakfast requires rising at dawn solution, and Federal Heights cinnamon rolis, mixed the evening before, are easy, delicate, light-hearted, and with a bit of jelly or preserve are a delectable finale to your brunch. A rule worth remembering is: "Make your guests wait for the hot bread, but never make the hot bread wait for the guests." CREAMED BREAST OF CHICKEN (Courtesy Helen L. Goates) 1 can cream of mushroom soup 1 tbsp. Lemon juice 4 c. Mayonnaise (scant) dash of garlic salt Y% c. Sour cream 3 chicken breasts, cut in halves % ec. Nippy cheese, grated Method: Wash and salt each one-half chicken breast. Line a 9" x 19" baking pan with metal foil, leaving ends long enough to cover pan. Place chicken in pan and bake in oven for about 114 hours or until tender. Cool and 689 COME FOR BREAKFAST fast. A manzanita branch is painted white, and artificial, shiny red apples are fastened to it. A slate nestles among the apples. Apple place mats of bright red terry cloth, machine finished around the edges and with snap-on felt stems and leaves, are a boon to busy mothers. They are so practical. Napkins are of the same matching fabric. The slate place cards, made of black construction paper and edged with large overcasting stitches of white yarn, are stuck in a schoolboy apple to be taken home. The menu is one which should please mothers and children alike. The blushing apples with gumdrop or mint leaves can be done the day before, bacon can be partially cooked and placed in the greased muffin tins, and the flannel pancake batter mixed. Flannel pancakes, leavened with yeast, are a scone-type griddlecake. Young fry dote on animal pancakes, and a little practice will enable you, as well as the children, to produce a whimsical facsimile of the real thing. Turtles, bunnies, cats, and gingerbread-shaped boys and girls are some of children's favorites. Honey-butter, two-thirds honey and one-third butter, beaten fluffy with an electric beater, is a taste-treat. HUMPTY DUMPTY IN A NEST Line bacon-greased muffin tins or ramekins with lean bacon which has been slightly pan broiled. Break an egg into saucer and slip into the center of each. Season with salt and pepper, if desired. Cover with 1 tablespoon sweet or sour cream, or a topping of grated cheese or buttered crumbs may be used. Bake in a 325 degree oven for about 15 or 20 minutes, or until eggs are set. Serve at once. FLANNEL PANCAKES (Turtles) 1 c. Milk, scalded 1 c. Lukewarm water 2 tbsp. Brown sugar 2 tbsp. Melted shortening 1 tsp. Salt _ 2 eggs, well beaten 1 cake compressed yeast or 1 pkg. Granular yeast 214, c. Sifted flour Method: Scald milk, add sugar and salt; cool to lukewarm. Dissolve yeast in lukewarm water and add to cooled milk. Add melted shon _-ning, well-beaten eggs, and flour. Beat thoroughly to make a smooth batter. Cover and let rise in warm place for about one hour. Stir well and bake on hot greased griddle. Makes about 18 turtle pancakes, depending on size. For overnight method: Use 1 tsp. Or 143 pkg. Granular yeast, or 14 cake of compressed yeast. Also use an additional 14 tsp. Salt. Cover and let stand overnight in a cool place. Do not place in refrigerator. Proceed as above. BLUSHING APPLES 6 medium-sized eating apples (hold shape better than cooking variety) 1 c. Sugar 2 tbsp. Lemon juice 3 c. Water 1/4, to %4 c. Red cinnamon candies, or red coloring may be used Method: Peel apples and remove core from each end with an apple corer. Make syrup of remaining ingredients, add apples, and cook until slightly transparent and tender, turning carefully to distribute color. Let stand in syrup until ready to serve. May be served as a fruit course, as part of the main course, as dessert with whipped cream, or stuffed as a salad. Makes 6 servings. Apples are very attractive also cut into rings. Those waning summer mornings are for remembering. Treat your friends or dear ones to a delicious breakfast or brunch. 691 Pearl Turley Frost Combines Art and Artistry Pearl Turley Frost, Snowflake, Arizona, makes quilts, crochets, knits, makes dolls and artificial flowers, and designs many other types of gifts and bazaar handicrafts. Her paintings of mountains and desert scenes, and of animals, are outstanding, and they grace many homes and public buildings in the Snowflake area. Her quilts represent a variety of designs in colorful applique and patchwork. She has crocheted and knitted ornate tablecloths and bedspreads, and her crocheted aprons have been in great demand for Relief Society bazaars. In her younger days, she was an active leader in 4-H Club work, and was one of the first women in Arizona to take her 4-H girls to a national competition in New York City. One of her most artistic hobbies is the making and decorating of wedding cakes and birthday cakes. On one occasion, President Heber J. Grant happened to be in Snowflake on his birthday, and Mrs. Frost made and decorated a large cake for the birthday party. At the age of eighty, she still attends her Church meetings, including Relief Society. All but one of her nine children are still living, and she finds great comfort and companionship in her grandchildren and great-grandchildren. 692 Relief Society Activities - aN — =: Bakersfield Stake (California) Soloists at Singing Mothers Concert April 9, 1965 Standing, left to right: Maurine Russell, stake literature class leader, and her mother, Barbara Gabbitas, stake Education Counselor, who sang a duet "Come, Mallika" from the opera "Lakme" by Delibes; Nancy Jones who played two flute selections; seated at the piano: Bonnie Newman who sang two soprano solos, "My Heart at Thy Sweet Voice," from "Samson and Delilah" by Saint-Saens, and "My Favorite Things" by Rogers. Beryl Lewis, President, Bakersfield Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Stake chorister Jean Beesley prepared a beautiful program that gave many of our talented sisters an opportunity to perform and delight an appreciative audience. This year's concert was called 'Golden Notes.' The chorus of forty-five Singing Mothers was made up of sisters from five wards in Bakersfield, and this year we had several sisters from Porterville. Patricia Boatman, stake organist, accompanied the group. The presentations were varied and ranged from the dignity of Bach to the freshness of Mancini's 'Moon River.' A series of mountain ballads contrasted with the spirited 'Skip to My Lou.' A group of nine sang a special triple trio. Our Singing Mothers have been called upon to sing at the last three quarterly conferences. They have had a concert yearly for four years. We are truly proud of them." 693 SEPTEMBER 1965 Hillside Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music For Stake Quarterly Conference March 1965 Leah C. Wood, President, Hillside Stake Relief Society, stands at the right (wearing suit); next to President Wood are her Counselors Luana G. Henderson and Elda J. Bergesen; chorister Helen F. Grover (in polka dot dress) third from the left on the first row; next to Sister Grover is Lu P. Beesley, the organist, and pianist Melva Johnson. Sister 'Wood reports: "These sisters have given willingly of their time and talents during the past year, to bring joy and inspiration to all fortunate enough to hear them. Their most recent appearances were at the stake quarterly conference in March, and at the stake Relief Society 'Fair to Remember' on May 14th. Their rendition of 'America the Beautiful' could not help but build pride and devotion for this great Nation. Then, as they changed the tempo, to sing 'Abide With Me,' hearts were truly filled with love and longing for our Savior." Las Vegas Stake (Nevada) Relief Society Presidency Presents Award For 100 Per Cent Visiting Teaching to Las Vegas Ninth Ward April 7, 1965 Left to right: Helen C. King, Work Counselor, Las Vegas Stake Relief Society; Dorothy J. Thuet, Education Counselor; Ileann W. Peterson, President; Ruth Winn, President, Las Vegas Ninth Ward Relief Society. Sister Peterson reports: "Sister Winn challenged the forty-six visiting teachers, as a special birthday gift to the stake Relief Society, to have 100 per cent visiting teaching for March 1965. The Ninth Ward has 184 families and twenty-three districts. Their visiting teacher report meeting in April was Marie Flowers' eighty-second birthday, and she was especially honored as one of the visiting teachers who had helped to attain the 100 per cent goal. She has more than forty years to her credit as a visiting teacher. The day of the visiting teacher report meeting, the entire board of the Las Vegas Stake Relief Society visited the Ninth Ward and Sister Winn presented the gift of 100 per cent visiting teaching to the stake Relief Society presidency. President Ileann Peterson acknowledged the visiting teaching record with sincere appreciation and presented to Sister Winn a beautiful cake made in the shape of an Easter rabbit, since the meeting was just before Easter." Millard Stake (Utah) Relief Society Achieves a Twenty-one Per Cent Increase in Magazine Subscriptions March 25, 1965 Ward presidents and the stake president are seated in the front row, with the Magazine representatives standing back of the executives. Left to right: Joan Stott and Roma Bennett, Meadow Ward; Shirley Probert and Edith Monroe, Scipio Ward; Virginia Wood and Lucile Stevens, Holden Ward; Dorothy Paxton and Frankie Pace, Kanosh Ward; Blanche George, President, Millard Stake Relief Society, and Leah D. Wood, stake Magazine representative; Arlene Olpin and Lila Day, Fillmore First Ward; Pauline Robinson and Dixie Williams, Flowell Ward; Edith Callister and Lorraine Handy (standing for Mildred Warner), Fillmore Second Ward; Afton Finlinson and Freda Dimmick, Fillmore Third Ward. Sister George reports: "We are very proud and happy with the effort our sisters put forth to make our stake a first-time winner in reaching the 100 per cent mark in the sale of the Magazine. This gave us a twenty-one per cent increase for 1964 over the previous year." 694 Po oe G69 SEPTEMBER 1965 Carbon Stake (Utah), Festive Foods Displayed at Leadership Meeting November 1964 Helen E. Bunnell, President, Carbon Stake Relief Society, reports: "An outstanding display of 'Festive Foods' was shown at the November 1964 leadership meeting. Under the direction of Theresa Frandsen, work meeting leader, and Eloise World, Work Counselor, each ward in the stake prepared an exhibit showing how creative artistry in food preparation and display can highlight any holiday occasion. "Each display was original and beautiful, the result of many hours of planning and preparation. Some wards furnished recipes with the food displayed on their tables, and others offered samples of the 'goodies.' "This was a most delightful and worthwhile occasion, an opinion concurred in by the sisters present and also the members of the Priesthood who were invited in to see and sample the exhibits, following their meeting in the same building." The display represented by the picture was arranged on a round table covered with a lovely rose-colored cloth, fringed in white. A graceful bough and fern leaves, sprayed in white, made an attractive centerpiece. The foods displayed were wrapped in cellophane and tied with ribbon so that they made an appetizing display. East Phoenix Stake (Arizona), Fifth, Eleventh, and Paradise Valley Wards Combined Evening Session Relief Society Assembled for Work Meeting April 1965 Standing back of the sisters from the Phoenix Fifth Ward, Eleventh Ward, and Paradise Valley Ward evening session of Relief Society, are leaders of Phoenix Eleventh Ward Relief Society (the "hostess" ward for this meeting), left to right: Second Counselor Edna Young; President Lucille Carruth; First Counselor Marjorie Gardner; Secretary-Treasurer Elsie Lamz; work meeting leader Marian Free; Lois L. Tanner, President, East Phoenix Stake Relief Society. Sister Tanner reports: "Realizing that over one-third of the women of our stake are employed outside their homes, Stake President Glenn A. Jones sensed that these sisters, too, needed the strengthening influence and blessings of Relief Society. Our stake now has three evening session Relief Societies, each one in a multiple situation being administered according to the procedure outlined by the General Board. Through this program, in a situation where multiple wards in one meeting house make it necessary to combine the evening session, we are able to see the 'extending' of Relief Society, and we have found by consistently observing evening session Relief Societies, in addition to separate daytime sessions, that there are certain important ingredients necessary for their success. Probably most vital of all is that the plan must be carried out under the direction of the Priesthood. Another necessity is that there be enthusiastic, devoted ward presidencies and class leaders—women who recognize that their callings include all of the sisters of the wards. Phoenix Eleventh Ward evening session Relief Society brought to their sisters a highly successful 'plastic grape' project, represented in the picture." 696 < eee Ys >; 697 SEPTEMBER 1965 St. George Stake (Utah), St. George Eighth Ward Relief Society Presents '"'Old Country Store' at Birthday Observance March 1965 Standing on the platform at the left (with notebook and pencil): Helen Douglas; standing in front at the display table, left to right: Loa Brown, Work Counselor; Wanda Truman, President; Birdie Cooper, Education Counselor. The gentlemen in the framework of the store represent the storekeeper and a customer. Violet Esplin, President, St. George Stake Relief Society, reports: "In March the Eighth Ward Relief Society sponsored an 'Old Country Store and Dime-a-Dip Dinner,' celebrating their birthday. Helen Douglas, chairman of the project, with many co-workers, did an outstanding work in creating the atmosphere of the pioneer era, with costumes, music, and interesting antique articles on display. An interesting day was spent by ward members, with entertainment provided and dinner served. Some $600 was realized from the project." North Carbon Stake (Utah) Visiting Teacher Convention April 22, 1965 Especially honored at the convention were: Sariah Lewis, Castle Gate Ward, fifty years of consecutive service: Olive Nelson (in polka dot dress), Price Third Ward, twenty-four years of 100 per cent service; Mary Duke, Spring Glen Ward, twenty-four years of 100 per cent service. Myrna Broschinsky, President, North Carbon Stake Relief Society, stands at the right (in white blouse); former president Edna Broadbent stands at the right (in black dress). Sister Broschinsky reports that the Castle Gate Ward was especially honored for eight years of 100 per cent visiting teaching, and preceding this, they achieved a thirty-six year 100 per cent record, with only one year missed. The Castle Gate Ward was given a Relief Society plate to hang in their Relief Society room. The presentation "Beyond Each Door," was very much enjoyed, and the Price Second Ward Singing Mothers sang "Come, Ye Blessed" and "The Bridge Builder." All the visiting teachers present were given corsages and were thanked for their many years of service. Roosevelt Stake (Utah), Roosevelt Second Ward Honors Visiting Teachers at Anniversary Party March 16, 1965 Front row, left to right: Mary Woodward, thirty-nine years; Marian Shields, forty years; Alice Luvlin, forty-eight years. Back row, left to right: Milinda Marchant, forty-five years; Dora Freston, thirty-five years; Lila Nickell, thirty-six years. Helen C. Larson, President, Roosevelt Stake Relief Society, reports: "These six sisters were given special recognition at the anniversary party. Fach one related outstanding and cherished experiences she had had during her years of service. Modes of travel were especially noted — team and wagon, horse and buggy, bobsled, and horseback in the days before automobiles became popular." 698 SFNFRAL ST/ (. NERA! CT AYRE Z, THEOLOGY — The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson: Department Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 67 — The Law, Man, and the Universe (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 88:36-75) For First Meeting, December 1965 Objective: To realize the value of a reign of law in the universe, and to learn how man may benefit himself eternally by obedience to law. INTRODUCTION The last two lessons have come from Section 88, known as the "Olive Leaf." The revelation began with a discusson of the Holy Ghost and the "light of Christ." Following this information, the Church is instructed in matters relating to the resurrection of man and the earth being the eventual habitat of celestialized beings. ALL KINGDOMS HAVE A LAW Law and order exist in all of God's creations. In this revelation, the Lord informs the reader that "All kingdoms have a law given" (D&C 88:36). This truth pertains to the universe "for there is no space in the which there is no kingdom." These kingdoms have their laws in which 700 there are bounds and conditions. (Verses 37-38.) | These thoughts led President Anthon H. Lund to indicate the value of this reign of law in the universe: We believe that everything is ruled by law. We are thankful that it is so, for otherwise we would live in a world of chance, in a fearful uncertainty of what would happen next. I believe that the material laws that can be traced in the creation had an intelligent will behind them, that the laws themselves were never superior to the will of God. He made those laws, and by His power they became effective to accomplish His purposes (Conference Report, April 1916, page 12). These ideas help us to understand that in a_ world-system comprised of worlds or even in a minute particle of matter, there is order. If the conditions under which we exist were to be less than orderly, then confusion, uncertainty, doubt, and even despair, would be found. On the other hand, as the Lord has said, "all kingdoms have a law" and the laws govern; consequently, when a man lives a law the blessings or benefits of that law are his. Therefore, the Lord declares that all beings who abide in the law are justified because they cleave unto principles (laws) which bring them nearer to God. (Verse 39.) Man discovers that violation of eternal law brings greater influence to bear upon him in continuing to do wrong. No greater truth was spoken than found in verse 40 of Section 88, upon which President Charles W. Penrose had this to say about the attraction of evil to evil and virtue to virtue: _.. If we do evil, evil impressions come naturally, and if we love to do good a good influence, a good spirit, is with us, and round about us, and in our being and we are sustained and supported thereby; and if we are corrupt and wicked and abominable and rebellious, the effects of our acts are right in our nature, and these things will be disclosed just as naturally as the opening of books made of paper and written upon with ink (Conference Report, April 1917, page 18). GOD IS IN ALL THINGS In Lesson 65 (Relief Society Magazine, July 1965) consideration was given to the manner by which God, though personal, having form and of tangible substance, is able to be in constant communication with his creations and is everywhere, as the scriptures aver. (Psalms 139:7-12; Acts 17:27-28.) God is everywhere by the "light of Christ." LESSON DEPARTMENT (D&C 88:6-13; 84:44-47.) Because of God's omnipresence through this spirit, the Lord said that he is through all things, all things are round about him, he is in all things, and all things are before him. (Ibid. 88:41.) Not only is God omnipresent, but he is also omniscient. He knows all things. (Ibid., verse 41.) The present is before his eyes, as the past may be, as well as the future. Latter-day Saints have a statement in the Lectures on Faith given in Kirtland to the School of the Prophets concerning the necessity of understanding that God possesses all of his attributes in perfection. _.. God is the only supreme governor and independent being in whom all fulness and perfection dwell; who is omnipotent [all-powerful], omnipresent [everywhere present] and omniscient [all-knowing]; without beginning of days or end of life; and that in him every good gift and every good principle dwell (Lecture Second, page 13). _.. Without the knowledge of all things, God would not be able to save any portion of his creatures; for it is by reason of the knowledge which he has of all things, from the beginning to the end, that enables him to give that understanding to his creatures by which they are made partakers of eternal life; and if it were not for the idea existing in the minds of men that God had all knowledge it would be impossible for them to exercise faith in him (Lecture Fourth, page 43). JOSEPH SMITH INSPIRED Elder Orson Pratt called attention to verses 42 through 68 of Section 88 as evidence that Joseph Smith, who had little formal schoolroom education, and while but a youth, was inspired to give information concerning the reign 701 SEPTEMBER 1965 of law in the universe, that other worlds are inhabited, and that it is man's opportunity to be in harmony with eternal law. Brother Pratt said: Yet these words were given to him, and they contain information and knowledge far beyond that which you will find recorded in the writings of the learned, information expressed so simply that a common mind can, in some degree, grasp it, and yet so sublime and so great that when we come to investigate its depths, it requires greater powers and_ greater understanding than what man naturally possesses.... We are also told that God is in the stars, those worlds so distant from ours, those great centers around which, no doubt, millions on millions of opaque bodies revolve as our planets revolve around our central body, the sun; that he is in those stars, that he is their light, and the power by which they are governed; or to come home directly to our earth, he is in the earth, and is the power and light and glory that is attached to the elements of our globe. This would seem to exhibit before us the nature of that Being whom we worship. We worship him because of his glory, greatness, goodness, justice, mercy, knowledge, and wisdom. We worship him, because he has the power to govern and control the universe, and because he has commanded us so to do. He is a personage... (Journal of Discourses, 17:324). The Lord likened the various kingdoms (worlds) to a parable in which the owner of a field sent his servants into the field at a different hour, even to the twelfth servant, and then the Lord visited each one of his servants at an appointed time. Each servant received the light of the Lord's countenance in the hour in which he was visited. (D&C 88:42-60.) Then the revelation represents 702 the parable as applying to other worlds and their inhabitants: Therefore, unto this parable I will liken all these kingdoms, and the inhabitants thereof—every kingdom in its hour, and in its time, and in its season, even according to the decree which God hath made (D&C 88:61). We know by revelation that the Lord's creations are numerous. (Moses 1:33-35; 7:30.) In their time each is to be visited by the Lord that the inhabitants thereof will find the joy and blessing of the light which only he can give to them. In the sermon quoted above from Elder Pratt, we learn that our own earth will be visited by the Lord during the time prophesied as the millennium. As pointed out in the revelations, he shall reign upon the earth for the thousand years. (Ibid., 7:6465; D&C 43:29-30.) Thus, from world to world will the Lord visit the pure in heart, who make up Zion. (Ibid., 97:21.) Elder Pratt discourses further concerning subsequent events relative to these creations. But there is another thing I want you to understand. This will not be kept up to all eternity, it is merely a preparation for something still greater. And what is that? By and by, when each of these creations has fulfilled the measure and bounds set and the times given for its continuance in a temporal state, it and its inhabitants who are worthy will be made celestial and glorified together. Then, from _ that time henceforth and for ever, there will be no intervening veil between God and his people who are sanctified and glorified, and he will not be under the necessity of withdrawing from one to go and visit another, because they will all be in his presence. It matters not how far in space these creations may be located from any special celestial kingdom where the Lord our God shall dwell, they will be able to see him at all times. Why? Because it is only the fall, and the vail that has been shut down over this creation, that keep us from the presence of God. Let the vail be removed, which now hinders us from beholding the glory of God and the celestial kingdom; let this creation be once perfected, after having passed through its various ordeals, after having enjoyed the light of the countenance of our Lord, in our hour and in our season, and let all things be perfected and glorified, and there will be no necessity for this vail being shut down (Journal of Discourses, m7 O02). Who are these inhabitants of other worlds? The revelations are clear in this regard. These inhabitants "are begotten sons and daughters unto God" (D&C 76: 24). PRAYERS ARE ANSWERED As indicated in last month's lesson, through the "light of Christ" men are endowed with conscience, and their ability to come to the fulness of the gospel is determined largely by their response to the light they have received. If a person will seek the Lord earnestly, the Lord has promised to draw close to him. (D&C 88:63.) If he asks for things that are not expedient for him, it shall turn to his condemnation. (Verses 64-65.) Consequently, the Lord has admonished his children to call upon him in sincere prayer that they may know his will concerning them. Prayer is not intended, said President Joseph Fielding Smith, to gratify some desire which may not be the best for us. Actually, we should not be too insistent or demanding of the Father for our own wishes, but seek for light to know the will of the Lord. (Church History and Modern Revelation 1:371.) a LESSON DEPARTMENT The Lord knows our needs better than we do. His vantage point is vastly different from ours. If Latter-day Saints would seek to learn the Lord's will concerning themselves and live by that knowledge, then the scripture would be fulfilled promising that their prayers would be answered. (D&C 88:64.) TRUTH IS ETERNAL Among the many great truths in the Doctrine and Covenants are those expressed in the following verse: Behold, that which you hear is as the voice of one crying in the wilderness—in the wilderness, because you cannot see him—my voice, because my voice is Spirit; my Spirit is truth; truth abideth and hath no end; and if it be in you it shall abound (D&C 88:66). We are shut out of the immediate presence of God, therefore, we are in a "wilderness."' We can, however, hear the voice of the Lord through his Spirit, which is truth. There follows in the revelation a statement that truth is absolute. Truth is eternal—it has no end! It does not change. Man's conception of a truth may change, but this does not affect the truth. The fundamental principles of the gospel remain the same. They do not change. The principles that will sanctify people in the past will sanctify the people of our dispensation. Elder James E. Talmage asked the following question and then answered it:... Have you ever found a single passage in Holy Writ that indicates in the least degree any revision or alteration of the fundamental laws and principles of the gospel? Have you ever found it necessary for God to 703 SEPTEMBER 1965 amend Himself and His words? Men make constitutions and enact laws, and then have to repeal and alter them, but the fundamental laws of truth are eternal; they will never be amended, they will never be changed. As declared to Adam, so is it declared unto the world today: Except ye have faith in God and in His Son Jesus Christ, as the one and only Saviour and Redeemer of mankind; except ye repent of your sins with a real and genuine repentance; except ye be baptized by immersion in water, at the hands of one having authority, and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost by the authorized laying on of hands, there is no possibility of your finding place in the kingdom of God.... You have never learned of any revision, amendment to or alteration in the law of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and in the form of the Church. Like the gospel itself, the Church adapts itself to the necessities of the times, to the conditions of life, but without the alteration of a single vital principle revealed of God (Conference Report, October 1918, pp. 60-61). KEEP YOUR MINDS SINGLE TO GOD "If your eye is single to my glory," and 'sanctify yourselves that your minds become single to God," are keys to successful Latter-day Saint living as indicated in these verses: And if your eye be single to my glory, your whole bodies shall be filled with light, and there shall be no darkness in you; and that body which is filled with light comprehendeth all things. Therefore, sanctify yourselves that your minds become single to God, and the days will come that you shall see him; for he will unveil his face unto you, and it shall be in his own time, and in his own way, and according to his own will (D&C 88:67-68). Does the instruction to keep one's mind single to God mean that all of one's thoughts should be about God? This does not seem reasonable, in view of one's 704 responsibility to care for children, earn a livelihood, and the multitudinous other things that require concentration and attention during a day. But do we as a people think enough about real issues in life, or is our attention on less important things? President Joseph F. Smith decried the many hours spent by Latter-day Saints on matters which are wasteful when more. Important matters might be considered:... Think of it, how many hours, how many days and months we spend, as the children of God, in the pursuit of the temporalities of life, in devoting our thoughts to those things which pertain to the present temporal life or existence, not the spiritual existence, or that portion or particular part of the temporal existence which pertains to, and is a part of, the spiritual existence of man. Men and women talk, they use their tongues and their lips very much in conversation and in the expressions of their views and thoughts which pertain only to worldly things, to trivial matters, of no value, to the groveling things, so to speak, of the world, and devote very few moments to useful and uplifting thought and very few words comparatively, are spoken by them which pertain to the eternal, everlasting growth, development and happiness of mankind. We think of the world, of the present more in regard to the temporalities of life, than we think about the principles of eternal truth that make for the salvation, happiness and well-being, temporally and spiritually, of our souls (Conference Report, October 1913, page 3). How can oné keep 'his mind single to God? Two suggestions follow as helps: (1) Undertake the daily practice of studying the scriptures, alone, or with your husband or family. A regular, systematic practice of study will be of great worth in accomplishing this objective and in bringing might often ask himself thes Remembe he great a last prom three fundame tal Questions Ise whic have unto you Where q d I come from? Why am cast away you, dle thoughts d your in the future life? Therefore, Cease from all your light Speeches, f all lay t from all your lustfy] esires, from all your LET YOUR EYE BE SINGLE Pride and 'ight-mindednose and from TO my GLORY all your Wicked doings (D&C 88: 69, ). It is the Will Of the Lord that 121 the Latter-day Saints apply their Does the Lord Condemn laughMinds faithfully to understand ter and expect his Saints to be his wil]. President Lorenzo Snow, Sober and Serious al] of the time? After Teminding the Saints that Upon Other OCcasionsg, he has Jesus Was dependent upon the Counseleq that °ne should have Father d he SOught "byt the a "glad eart cheerfy] will of the Father" (John 5:30), countenance" (Ibid 6 15) and applied this Principle jn the fo] receive Merriment in dance, OWilng w Ong, and Music, ([$; 136:28 ) - We s -; Interests of the Most High God, and Cess'"' of aughter—idle thoughts, to feel as Jesus felt, "T Can of mine lustfy] desires, Pride, lightming_ of God in everything that he Starts light Indednegg towar Sacred to accomplish (Millennia) Star 56: 6 = d ) O him, for aly Mysteries would be PURIFY Your HEARTS UNVeiled, €ven the Wonders of The elders who had been Called 705 SEPTEMBER 1965 Consistent with this charge, these ''first laborers" were to purify their hearts, and, by their delivering their message to this people, they were to be clean from the blood of this generation. (Verses 74-75.) President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Has given some thoughts to sober our thinking in the realization that we should purify our hearts:... Clean hands—clean of defilement of our fellow men, clean from the goods of our fellow men, clean from the blood of our fellow men; that must be the cleanliness which must be ours. Pure hearts—pure before the Lord; greed and lust and covetousness banished from our hearts, standing pure before God, that he may look therein and see there nothing which would cause him pain, and nothing which would make us blush. I have often said: "I wonder how we would all stand, and individually how I would stand, if I were told that God was yonder in the mountain and I could go to him if I wished." I wonder if my life has been such that I could go and stand before the Being who could look me through and see my secret thoughts and hopes and ambitions. Unless and until, my brothers and sisters, we could stand that test, we are not living as the Lord would have us live (Conference Report, October, 1935, pp. 90-91). QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. What is the value of the concept of a reign of law throughout the universe? 2. What does Joseph Smith say is the need for accepting the truth that God knows all things? 3. What is the meaning of the parable of the master and his servants in Section 88:42-61? 4. According to the lesson, what is of major importance in having one's prayers answered? 5. Discuss the two practices, which, if followed, will assist one to keep his mind single to God? 6. What is the blessing to be received by those whose "mind is single to God," and whose "eye is single to God's glory'? VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Message 67 — ''See That Ye Love One Another; Cease to Be Covetous; Learn to Impart One to Another As the Gospel Requires" (D&C 88:123). For First Meeting, December 1965 Objective: To show that love is the most important ingredient of an abundant life. The charge we have been given to love one another is, without doubt, one of the greatest of the Lord's commandments. He him- 706 self described it as the second great commandment only superseded by the charge to love the Lord. We all remember the incident described in the scriptures when the lawyer of the Pharisees asked Jesus the question, tempting him, saying, ''Master, which is the great commandment in the law?" Jesus answered, '""Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself" (Matt. 22:37-39). Why is this the greatest of all commandments? Why do all the laws and the prophets hang on this commandment? Why did Jesus say, "A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another; as I have loved you'? (John 13:34). The obvious answer to these questions is that true love fulfills all other commandments. A person who really loves the Lord would not think of taking his name in vain nor of having any other gods before him. If one truly loves another, he would not steal from him and, certainly, not covet what he has. He would be, moreover, sympathetic, _ understanding, kind, generous,. Cour-. Teous, unselfish, of good temper and sincere. For, as the apostle Paul wrote: "Charity suffereth long, and is kind; charity envieth 'not;. Charity vaunteth not itself, ' is not puffed up, Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not 'easily provoked, thinketh no evil" (I Cor. 13:4-5). In addition, through true love, all of us would "impart. One to another as the gospel requires." Paul classifies love as_ the greatest of all influences. After describing the gifts of the spirit, LESSON DEPARTMENT and the power of faith, and contrasting charity (love) with eloquence, prophecy and all knowledge, he says that charity is greater than all of these. (I Cor. 13:1-3.) How can we learn to keep this commandment to love one another? In answer to this question, someone has_ remarked, "You learn to speak by speaking, to study by studying, to run by running, and just so, you learn to love by loving." If any of us should find it difficult to develop and express our love for someone else, we might begin by thinking about all of the good qualities the person possesses and practice these same virtues in our association with him or her. As the Prophet Joseph Smith once said, "It is a time-honored adage that love begets love. Let us pour forth love —show forth our kindness unto all mankind, and the Lord _ will reward us with everlasting increase; cast our bread upon the waters and we shall receive it after many days, increased to a hundredfold" (DHC V:517). When one truly loves he gets love in return; moreover he builds, strengthens, purifies, and ennobles his own character and motivates similar attributes in the person loved. This thought was beautifully expressed in a poem entitled "Love.". I love you, Not only for what you are, But for what I am When I am with you. I love you, Not only for what You have made of yourself, But for what. You are making of me. 707 SEPTEMBER 1965 I love you, health and happiness. It is the For the part of me essence of faith, hope, and charThat you bring out + And for drawing out HaSe-. D, Into the light Love is the greatest thing in All the beautiful belongings the world. Most important, it is That no one else had looked readily available to each of us. Quite far enough to find. All we need to do is to reach out I love you because you and practice it. Are helping me to make Let us strive constantly to Of the lumber of my life "love one another; cease to be pnt a —: covetous; learn to impart one to ut a temple,. " totic oi another as the gospel requires. Of my every day Suggested cross references for the Not a reproach mothers in the home to the Family But a song Home Evening Manual: Lesson 18— (Author unknown) "Jesus Taught Us to Love Our Father in Heaven," page 138; Lesson 19 —. "Jesus Taught Us to Love As He If we truly wish an abundant Loves," page 147; Lesson 20 — "Jesus life, we must fill it abundantly Taught Us to Love. One Another," with love. Love is the secret of page 158. WORK MEETING Molding a Happy Life Winnifred C. Jardine (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Good Communication Is Essential to Happiness For Second Meeting, December 1965 Objective: To discuss the need of improving one's power of expression as an asset to happiness. It is important for mothers to making room for seeds of happitake a "little walk around themness to flourish. Selves," to hear themselves as others hear them. 1. Poor Grammar Today, let's talk about ten hobOf all people, Latter-day Saints goblins of speech that, in spite of | should make an effort to improve us, seem to creep into our lives. Their speech grammatically, espeBy recognizing them, we can percially because we are a "speaking sist in efforts to weed them out, people." Incorrect grammatical 708 — expressions used within the home become such a deep part of the children's speech that it is almost impossible for English teachers to correct them. Three commonly used errors in grammar are: I seen (saw) You was (were) It don't (doesn't) 2. Slang Expressions Latter-day Saints should never swear nor use vulgar language and should be careful in the use of slang expressions, for they are crutches for a crippled vocabulary. 3. Loud Talking A sage bit of advice for family members is this: Speak not loudly to each other unless the house is on fire. Soft, gentle tones are always appropriate, and if they are used by parents in the home, like bread cast upon the water, they will come back to them. Family members should resist the temptation to shout from room to room; if something is worth saying, it is worth the short walk. Brigham Young, who recognized the unladylike quality of shouting, installed in his home in the early days, tubes from floor to floor for communication purposes. As for shouting in anger, he quoted from scripture: "A soft answer turneth away wrath: but grievous words stir up anger" (Proverbs 15:1). 4. Nagging This is an ugly-sounding word with an ugly meaning. Irritation by persistent scolding and urging can dampen happiness in any home. Repeating things over and over is a bad habit. If a thing is LESSON DEPARTMENT said once or twice and must be adhered to, then action should follow. Otherwise, let the matter drop. | 5. Interrupting This practice can_ spread through a family like wildfire and should be stamped out before it gets out of control. From infancy, children should be taught to refrain from interrupting a conversation, and the best teacher is example. Not only does this mean interrupting a conversation within the room or on the phone, but also interrupting one who is studying or reading. Let adults always remember, too, that to talk while entering a room or a group may not only be interrupting but destroy the spirit of communion that may exist. 6. Quarreling This matter slips into homes unbidden, and parents can be drawn into it almost without realizing it. Brigham Young said: "TI will give you a few words that you may have children that are not quarrelsome. Always be good-natured yourselves. Never allow yourselves to become out of temper."' A good antidote for quarreling is putting children to work. 7. Hurtful Retorts Mothers should exercise every power to keep hurtful words from passing between members of the family. Each time these words slip out, they make it easier the next time, and once they are said, they can never be retracted and permanent damage may result. One of President McKay's most persistent messages to members of the Church is the need for 709 SEPTEMBER 1965 courtesy and consideration in the home. Hurtful words are darts thrown by Satan to destroy the sanctity of the home, and_parents should avoid the use of them. 8. Gossiping If they are engaged as they should be, Latter-day Saints would not have free time for gossiping. In fact, if they are in the right spirit, they would refrain from speaking unkindly about anyone. | "Nay, speak no ill; a kindly word can never leave a sting behind; and, oh, to breathe each tale we've heard is far beneath a _ noble mong." | 9. Criticism Criticism, unless it is constructive, is eroding, wearing away at the character of the innocent, but even more at the one who criticizes. Let words of criticism never escape our lips, for once they do, more surely will follow. 10. Talking Too Much In the busyness and fullness of a mother's day, it is a temptation indeed to talk as hard and fast as she works. Happiness within a home often results from simple silence. "The factor of omission 'is often important in human relations," wrote Alex Osborne of advertising fame (Your Creative Power, page 211). It is well to ask ourselves, '""What could be left unsaid?" To keep all of these dang in mind all the time is difficult. Why not try to work at it as Benjamin Franklin did with his Thirteen Virtues, concentrating on one virtue each week, but marking himself on all? The important thing is that we set good examples for our children. Like a mirror, our children reflect back to us exactly what we are. We will view the reflection with pride or shame, depending upon the example we set. SOCIAL SCIENCE — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 12 — Home Is a Harbor For Third Meeting, December 1965. Objective: To emphasize the influence of the mother within her home in keeping the observance of Christmas in hare with its spiritual significance. INTRODUCTION This December lesson will focus our thinking upon life values which are closely linked with 710 those relating to Christmas. The blessings of motherhood, the joy of sharing, the love and understanding which can make a home "g a place of peace, are all facets of gospel teaching. They also are associated with Christmas. The relationship of the mother to these facets and her influence in preparing the heart and the home for Christmas are the concerns of this lesson. QUESTIONS TO ASK ' Which Christmas of your past do you like best to recall? Why is it memorable? Perhaps you already have asked your children the question, "What makes a _ Christmas happy?" If so, do you recall their answers? Did they mention the house decor? The cost of presents? Ask your children over ten years of age, "What do you like best about Christmas at our home?" Their answers to this question may indicate to you the general type of Christmas memories that are being made in your home. Many Christian families: today fear that the real message of Christmas is being submerged in an increasing surge of commercialism. Do you? Since the attitude of the mother is an important factor in creating the general atmosphere of the home, is it possible for her to offset, within her home, this commercialized approach _ to Christmas? What can she do? Will these suggestions be helpful? 1. Endeavor not to emphasize the monetary value of Christmas gifts (and still be practical about money to be spent). 2. Emphasize the spiritual aspect of Christmas by general attitude and by specific comments. 3. Engage in activities of service to others in which the children may participate. LESSON DEPARTMENT BUILDING CHRISTMAS TRADITIONS Traditions that originate in the festive Christmas celebration may create happy memories, but they have significance only when they illumine the "human spirit" with love and faith. They have real significance as they acknowledge Jesus of Nazareth as the Christ, the Redeemer of the world. Since Latter-day Saints firmly believe that this is true, surely every Latter-day Saint mother will want this truth to be central in the Christmas memories her children will carry throughout their lives. If specific family activities, carried out each year, are added to this central theme, a family Christmas tradition may be built which will enrich the memory of all family members. How may this be accomplished? Suggestion: 1. Of first importance will be the actual gospel teachings planned and outlined in the Family Home Evening Manual, for they remind all that Jesus Christ is our Savior and remind all (see lesson 46) that the Christmas celebration is in memory of his birth and mission. 2. By carrying out each year, such special family activities as the following: a. Having the children trim, or help in the trimming of the Christmas tree. B. Having the story of the first Christmas night read from the scriptures on Christmas Eve. C. Hanging up the Christmas stockings. D. Singing Christmas carols. E. Retelling of favorite family experiences relating to Christmas. F. The boxing of cookies and the making of special foods to be given to neighbors or farther-away friends. Many other activities might be added, for Christmas family customs vary widely in different countries. What special Christ- 711 SEPTEMBER 1965 mas activities were carried out yearly in your home? What special Christmas activities do you carry out in your own home today? PREPARING THE HEART FOR CHRISTMAS Many mothers may feel that they know what the principles of the gospel are. All, however, may need to be reminded, often, in order to keep these principles in mind. All may need the motivation that direct suggestions for application of the principles can give. The Christmas season offers opportunity for an evaluation of the general atmosphere of our homes. It is a good time to be reminded that through concrete, though often small ways and acts, gospel truths are made active in our lives. Many commandments, generally familiar to us, may be given new and special meaning as the family makes preparation for the celebration of Christmas. The mother holds a central position in the family preparation for Christmas. If she is to help family members to approach' Christmas with an attitude which is in harmony with its spiritual message, she, too, must be in harmony with this message. Many mothers already may be carrying out the activities suggested in this lesson and many similar suggestions. Perhaps all Latter-day Saint mothers, however, may profit by being reminded of certain attitude-building commandments and how important their own attitudes are at this season. Is it possible that social engagements, special Christmas decorations, innumerable household 712 details may crowd out the real spirit of Christmas? Even make of Christmas a burden instead of a blessing? May some engagements need to be canceled or postponed? THE SCRIPTURES LEAD THE WAY How may the mother's attitude be kept in harmony with the real spirit of Christmas? Would being reminded by the following commandments be helpful? The scriptures lead the way. SCRIPTURE This is my commandment, That ye love one another, as I have loved you (John 15:12). Although we cannot comprehend the extent and fulness of God's love, we know that it blesses each moment of our lives; we know that love is the very heart of the gospel of his Son, Jesus Christ. We know that love for one another is an indispensable factor for happiness. SUGGESTED ACTIVITY Plan and carry out some kind and unexpected service for a friend or, better still, for someone who is not a particular friend and from whom you expect no service in return. It might be to visit someone who is living alone or who is ill. Share a treasured spiritual experience with someone whose faith is wavering and needs to be strengthened. Invite some person who otherwise would be alone, to share your home at some time during the holiday season. SCRIPTURE "Blessed are the peacemakers... (Matt. 5:9). " The world is much in need of peace. How does an individual acquire that inner peace which fortifies against the turmoil of the world? SUGGESTED ACTIVITY Where prone to speak sharply, speak gently and kindly, remembering that ''a soft answer turneth away wrath." Mend a quarrel by expressing regret, or by apologizing or in some other way remove the barrier which poor communication may have caused. SCRIPTURE Wherefore, I say unto you, that ye ought to forgive one another; for he that forgiveth not his brother his trespasses standeth condemned before the Lord; for there remaineth in him the greater sin (D&C 64:9). At some time or other, all individuals have need of forgiveness from those with whom they associate, and most certainly do they need to be forgiven by our Heavenly Father. We_ should strive for that divinity referred to in the familiar maxim by Alexander Pope, "To err is human, to forgive divine." SUGGESTED ACTIVITY Forgive an enemy (if you have one). Try to understand the motives and circumstances which caused the estrangement. If possible and feasible let your enemy know that he is forgiven. Search your own motives. Perhaps you are partially to blame for the disagreement. SCRIPTURE... Cease to be covetous 88: 123). Perhaps no attitude is a greater deterrent to a joyful Christmas (D&C LESSON DEPARTMENT than that of being covetous. The desire to have as much or more than someone else, or what someone else has, often may apply to an adult as well as to children. It discourages parents when children are not satisfied with what they have. If and when a mother achieves the state of maturity which precludes this undesirable trait, she should help her children to be happy and grateful for what they have and not to want the gifts or possessions of their friends. SUGGESTED ACTIVITY Refrain from saying, "My friend Maude has a much nicer... Than I have—much nicer and more expensive." Even refrain from such wishing (if you can) as, "I wish I had my sister's... For I know I shall never have one like it." SCRIPTURE - remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, It is more blessed to give than to receive" (Acts 20:35). The ability to share willingly is a character trait which blesses the giver immeasurably. This is a quality which many mothers seem to possess inherently, for they give expression to it so naturally, as they constantly share with others. Contrast the facial expression of a woman at a bargain counter as she struggles and reaches in order "to get," "to have," "'to receive," with the expression on the face of a woman who is presenting a gift to an individual who is less fortunate, or when she is giving of herself in unselfish service to someone in need. What makes the difference? 713 SEPTEMBER 1965 SUGGESTED ACTIVITY Give to some person who would really appreciate it, something you would really like to keep for yourself. Help children to see the difference between giving as a gift something they do not care to have, and in giving a gift they would enjoy keeping for themselves. Will the effort to comply with - these divine commandments help prepare the mother's heart for Christmas? PREPARING THE HOME FOR CHRISTMAS Preparing the home for Christmas may become an enjoyable, cooperative, and memorable experience, if 1. Adequate plans are made. 2. The project is kept within the financial and time resources of the family. 3. There is cooperation between parents and children. The excitement of making plans for the Christmas Week Family Home Evening, the aroma of holiday cooking, the welcome of holly wreath upon the door, the trimming of the Christmas tree, the wrapping of gifts, all may be an integral part of a child's memory of Christmas. The Latter-day Saint mother, however, will not want the emphasis upon the tree, the gifts and festivities, to diminish the wonder of shepherd and star and the Christ child, born in a manger. FRAGMENTS FROM THE CHRISTMAS SCENE The following is a fragment of a conversation in a home where the Christmas preparation is not a 714 family project and where the real spirit of Christmas obviously is absent (at least temporarily). House A. The family room. Mother is addressing the last of the Christmas cards. Mother: "I'll surely be glad when Christmas is over. With so many cards to send, shopping for presents, parcels to mail, last minute sewing, and you children going in every direction, with no time even to speak to anyone. I'm already worn out." Ist Daughter: "Well, what is Christmas for, if not to go places—and get presents, of course?" 2d Daughter: (Entering breathlessly) "Mother, what am I going to do about Sue? I must give her a nice present. She gave me one last year that cost $4." Mother: (Not looking up) "We'll just have to settle that later. Don't bother me now." Son: (Age twelve) "I hope I get a new bicycle, not a hand-me-down one from Bob. I think Christmas is for NEW presents." Father: "I say it's for paying bills. (Looking gloomily through checkbook.) They'll be mountain high this year." Mother: (Still not looking up) "Everything is so expensive." Father: "And everybody wants more. Do we have to have this and that just because someone else has it?" What does this conversation forecast for the Christmas day atmosphere in House A? HOME IS A HARBOR House B. It is Christmas day in the afternoon. Father and Mother Martin are in the living room reading. There is a fire in the grate. Bertie and husband Charles, with four small children, enter. Bertie: (At the door) 'Mother, the tree is beautiful! Simply beautiful! I knew it would be—with red apples. A star and all. Didn't I tell you, Charles, it would be like this?" (Kisses Mother and Father, as children and husband greet them warmly.), Mother: "I knew you'd see the tree, first thing. You always loved helping with the tree.... We're so happy you could come, even for a day." Bertie: "It's a long way and a lot of effort, but it's always worth it to come home, especially at Christ- "? Mas. Charles: "I don't think she's ever been away. Our house seems to have been built from the same blueprint." Bertie: '"He's just teasing! He means we're doing about the same things we used to do, here at home— the Bible reading on Christmas Eve, cookies to the neighbors and all that. Even our little ones helped with our tree." Father: "Carrying on the family traditions—that it, daughter?" Mother: "You may take your things into the west bedroom." Bertie: '""Why, that was my room. Are the other children coming?" Father: "All of them. Their letters are here. Mary Ellen and Carl and Jim." Bertie: "I'm so glad!" Later that evening. All have been singing Christmas carols, with daughter-in-law Margaret at the piano. The Family Home Evening is over and the grandchildren are now asleep. Mother: "This is just what we've been needing—a family, for our Family Home Evening. Oh, we follow the manual, but it isn't the same without children." Father: 'Mother is right. There's nothing quite like a family. Just what is a family?" Jim: (Finishing college and unmarried) "Guess you better not look to me for that answer." Mary Ellen: "All right, Ill say that a family is energy, appetite, and questions wrapped up in a bundle. As the mother of five, I say there isn't a dull moment." Mother: "You wouldn't want one." Mary Ellen: '"Isn't tonight wonderful! I hope heaven is like this—all of us getting together, at times." Anthony: (Son-in-law, geologist) "We should—marriage and the family are to be forever. And that's a long time, even geologically speaking."' Father: '"There's a special kind of immortality a parent may know right here on earth—seeing how LESSON DEPARTMENT what he believes and does affect his children and their children. He is pleased when what he sees is good." Mother: "Which ought to make parents take special care about what they believe and teach in their homes." Father: "Makes you wonder, sometimes, just what is a home?' Charles: (Son-in-law, physician) "I say it's a place for dispensing bumped-knee bandages. (All laugh.) But speaking seriously, Ill say it's a place where you can be completely yourself, can talk your problems over and be understood." Jim: "If you want a comment from 'Experience limited' I'll say this: If I don't get the job I'm wanting, I'll say that home is a place for 'healing your wounds.' " Margaret: (Daughter-in-law) "I say a home is a place for love, for children, and tell-it-again stories." Mary Ellen: "When I was away at college, I thought of home as a nest and sometimes I wanted to fly right back to it. I'll say that home is a place you enjoy being in and like to come back to." Carl: 'I say home is a harbor. When you're almost grown up and the waters—far out—get rough, you look for harbor and safe mooring. Home is where you find it." Father: "A harbor! I like that idea, son. I think a home can be a harbor, a place of refuge, a place of welcome. Where parents believe, and where they live and teach their belief, the children get a pretty good anchor to take with them into deep _ sea." Carl:. "Even when you're old—thirty to be exact—it is good to come back home and talk things over. What did you think of my question?" Father: "I have your letter right here." (Takes a letter from small basket * on the table. He scans through it to the end. Then reads) "PS. What are the important things one should enjoy in the present and look back upon with satis-. Faction?" (Puts down letter.) "I'll answer your. Letter in detail, son, but for the present, Ill put it this way—knowledge that there is divine purpose in life; a good family; friends to cherish here and here- 715 SEPTEMBER 1965 after; service to one's fellow man and—a modest amount of this world's goods." Mary Ellen: "We knew from the first what you would say." Jim: (A_ little facetiously) Faith, family, friends, service—and a modest amount of money—theme song for the Martins." Bertie: '"We've heard it taught all through the years." Carl: "I know. But it's good to come back to the harbor and hear it again." FOR DISCUSSION Questions in the lesson. FOR HOME DOING Have a joyous Christmas, keeping ever in mind that it is a special day, a holy day, commemorating the birth of the Savior of the world. LITERATURE — The Individual and Human Values as Seen Through Literature No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season. COOK ELECTRIC a Pots and pans stay '"'white glove'' clean If its electric, its better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY HAWAIIAN TOUR October — 15 days ROSE PARADE TOURS via San Diego via San Francisco Dec. 26 to Jan. 2 OAKLAND AND LOS ANGELES Nov. 11 Will be time for those who wish to go to temple Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 716 In a few years—a slide rule? Your children who are cleaning erasers for elementary school teachers today will soon be making decisions on their college courses. But Now is the time to prepare financially. Money for advanced education for your children represents a major investment. There is a way to be Ts Bg ready when your children are. Consult your Beneficial agent for expert ""Planned Futures" help. Beneficial Life Insurance Company 7% west 50. TEMPLE © SALT LAKE CITY UTAH "SPECIAL OCCASION SONGS OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS LEARN THE WAY, S. S. A. 22..2..-cecccseeeeeeceee$.30 Shelton (composer of COME, FOLLOW CHRIST, solo). 60 MAGNIFY YOUR OFFICE, S. A.25 Scott (composer of FORGIVEN, words by Widtsoe, solo) 125 AQUAMARINE, piano solo 1.00 Nielsen (composer of ALICE M'DRULY, Solo) -u 2.. 2c ceeeeeee enone -30 ONLY YESTERDAY, solo or S. S. A. (for missionary farewell). 30 Gunn (composer of SOMEWHERE ALONG THE WAY, S. S. A.).30 THIS TESTIMONY, LAST OF 7) OP \-) (>.60 Pond (composer of AS | GO ON ~ MY WAY, S. S. A.). O cecccceeccceceeeee.30 SEEK YE OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, S. S. A. Ou ccccccecseeeeececccneee.25 McAllister (composer of THE VISITING TEACHER, S. S. A.).25 WELCOME HOME, MISSIONARY, Everett (author of GATE OF ETERNITY, temple) 2.00 ccccceeees.25 "MUSIC FOR MORMONS BY MORMONS" Write for free complete brochure and price list SPECIAL OCCASION SONGS 1365 East 4800 South Salt Lake City, Utah 84117 HAWAIIAN TOURS October, November, December 1965 AUTUMN TOUR TO EUROPE Leaves September 3, 1965 WORLD'S FAIR NEW ENGLAND and CANADIAN FALL TOUR September 16, 1965 ROSE PARADE TOUR December 1965 Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 485-2444 — 262-2337 The Fabric of Our Years Pearle M. Olsen Dear old friends! Burnished golden threads Weaving love through mellow |. Patterned years!,. Dear new-found friends! Silver filaments ~ Now giving luster To our forming days! Designs of varied measurements Enrich the hours as each arrives— Unfolding fabric of our lives! 718 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure Wy of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The ' Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 'Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25. Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany al! Orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.55 Zone 6 90 Zone 3.60 Zone 7:.1.05 Zone 4:..65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5 —_ = DESERET FREws PREsS Tour the Holy Land This Fall Vie Pan American Jet TOUR LEAVES OCTOBER 7th Murdock Travel's annual Fall tour of the ever inspiring Holy Land provides you with 21 days of high quality, worry-free travel. You are assured of luxury travel on Pan American jet clippers and superb accommodations in the finest hotels... All at unusually low cost! The tour includes all of the Holy Land as well as places such as Istanbul, Cairo, Athens, and Rome. W. Cleon Skousen, Tour Director Mr. Skousen is a foremost L. D. S. Authority on the Holy Land and the author of several successful books. Among these are: So You Want to Raise a Boy? The First Two Thousand Years, and The Third Thousand Years. Wees eceoceecrer eer eer esereecse ores eeeeEeTEeeoeC eV EVE VEU EEE. MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. 14 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101, Phone 328-3161 PLEASE SEND ME FULL PARTICULARS ON THE FALL TOUR OF THE HOLY LAND. MURDOCK | Address TRA VEL City 0 State. Zip Sic MHOECOCHASSSCEHS SCS FSHBeEF SF EHS RES SHAS SHEA EO HOS@eeeeeoos een eeBusseeea B@aneeeseseeeeeeooosvaeetoveened LITERATURE INSTRUCTORS:. For more meaningful lessons this coming year, order your professional quality recorded readings from this year's lessons today! 12"' LP 33% rpm "The Tiger'' "'Sonnet #94" "The Rime: of the Ancient Mariner'' ''The Hound: of Heaven"' ''Tithonus" ''Death Be Not: eeoeoeeeeoeeeece CLIP AND MAIL eoereeoe: DIVISION OF COMMUNICATION SERVICES 291 HRCB BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY * PROVO, UTAH 84601 Proud" ''Prospice'"' ''Rabbi Ben Ezra' "We Are Seven'' William Blake William Shakespeare: Robert Browning William Wordsworth: Alfred Lord Tennyson Samuel Taylor: Coleridge 5 Gentlemen:: Enclosed is my check for-—________.: Please send me the 1965 Literature Record(s) at $3.50 ° each. « Name e« Address > City State. Zip 719 Books of Inspiration OUT OF BEST BOOKS No. 1 Vol. I The Individual and the Human Values by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas An anthology of significant literature-poems, stories and essays by noted authors which should provide most provocative answers to modern-day challenges. Prominent approaches to Faith in God and Man, Right and Wrong Attitudes, Good Versus Evil, The Place of Suffering in Life and Facing Death supply illuminating and completely satisfying reading. Out of Best Books has been adopted as the literary lesson source for the Relief Society for two years assuring wide acceptance throughout the Church. Plus 15 cents postage ¢7 95 HOME MEMORIES OF PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY No. 2 compiled by Llewelyn R. McKay A delightful collection of intimate stories of the first family of the Church compiled by President McKay's second son, Llewelyn. From the stories of President McKay's early life, one can see the fruits of his maturity. A book to be read aloud within the family circle and a must for every Latter-day Saints library. $2.95 A CONVERT'S TRIBUTE TO OUR PROPHET, DAVID O. McKAY No. 3 by F. E. Schluter A prominent businessman who finds himself captivated by the powerful personality of the prophet, joins the Church and pays tribute to the beloved leader of Mormondom in this exciting book. A Convert's Tribute to Our Prophet, David O. McKay makes a marvelous addition to your family home evening library. A wo $1.50 a Deseret Boo COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Zz PHOSKSSSSHOSSSSOSHSSESSESHSSEOSHSHSESEEHZE DESERET BOOK COMPANY, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah NAME 0 00 0 00 Gentlemen: Enclosed please find a check [| money order | I have an ADDRESS 020.000 002 ee ee account, please charge [|] Amount enMosed forthe encircled CITY STATE AP numbered books: 1 2 3 Residents of Utah please add 3/2% sales tax School days are here again! And healthy young bodies need the pure food energy that U & | can give! Children can't survive on foodless foods and drinks with no energy value. Serve energy-high U &! Sugar treats to your family often. Energy High U & i the sugar from our land. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah 
