December 1965 Lessons for March "MAGAZINE Volume 52 Number 1 For QL WMaskiind Mabel Jones Gabbott Of Time Into the midst of time, between the old Law and the new, he came as was foretold. Yet, all of time is his; his are the sun And starshine. All the measured hours that run Between are in his time... And so are we, And they who were the very first to see A sunset on the earth, or hear the birds Carol his praises; they who heard his words, And all who follow after to time's rim Before and since the blessed Christmas morn Are rich with time and life because of him. For unto all mankind, the Son was born. Of Place That was an ancient year, a distant land When Magi, richly dressed with gifts in hand, Had traced the starlight unto Bethlehem, Had seen the Holy Child, and worshipped him, Yet all of earth is his, the restless dune, The steadfast mountains, and the sea and moon, The crowded city, trimmed and tinseled bright, The country roadway drenched in lunar light. Though stars are quiet now above the place Where Christ was born, his light will always fill With penetrating rays the ends of space, As surely as it crowned Judea's hill. The Cover: Madonna and Child, From a Painting by Crivelli. Courtesy The Metropolitan Museum of Art, The Jules S. Bache Collection, 1949 Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press ) Frontispiece: Art Layout: Illustrations: Palms in Winter, Photo by Don Knight Dick Scopes Mary Scopes ' Som 2 tar ttl Sy | want to thank you for the very suitable and charming illustration by Mary Scopes for my story ''A Dress for Sherry Lynn'"'. In the September issue of the Magazine. What a joy you must feel each month to turn out such a fine Magazine to send to ail corners of the world. Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho The Magazine is so special and something to be cherished always in our home. | read it from cover to cover almost as soon as it arrives and can hardly wait for it to come again. It - gives me beautiful thoughts to think of and to inspire me. Eva Kohkonen Helsinki, Finland | read The Relief Society Magazine each night and morning. There is so much to think about and study, and it is a wonderfully encouraging way to start and end a day. |! Have read the editorial on ''Self-Reliance,"' by Louise W. Madsen. | need that encouragement, especially now that my husband is gone. | am not so lost as before the book came. Mrs. Mildred Perkins Modesto, California The story "A Dress for Sherry Lynn," by Frances C. Yost (September 1965) calls for special commendation. It is a beautiful character study and represents a family attitude which would make our 'present society a sweet Utopia if practiced in the spirit of the story. Ruby A. Rex Logan, Utah The sisters here in the Timaru Branch do enjoy their copies of The Relief Society Magazine, and say they are gaining a comprehensive knowledge on many subjects. Alice R. Beach Timaru, New Zealand 882! Am not a Mormon, but have always been deeply interested in the history of the Mormons. Never have | seen a finer little Magazine. My doctor, Dr. Stephen Clark, is a Mormon, and it was in his office that | first saw copies of this Magazine. | have read and reread them, and now | am sending for my own subscription. Mrs. Hazel H. King Buena Park, California Thank you for a fine Magazine. The lessons seem particularly inspired, and |! Am looking forward to the future lessons as they will appear in the Magazine. | feel certain that the Relief Society sisters in our ward are the finest, sweetest women anywhere to be found, but | suppose that is a feeling common to the members everywhere. What a wonderful organization we have! Peggy St. Cyr Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Last April | received my first Relief Society Magazine as a gift from Mrs. Crystal Crow from California whose son Douglas was a missionary here. | was not a baptized member then, but | was baptized on July 25th, 1965 by my dear husband, and we both enjoy reading the wonderful Magazine and look forward to it every month, and my family and | will always be grateful to Sister Crow. Mrs. Margaret Davies Newport, Monmouth South Wales Just a short note of appreciation for the opportunity of reading The Relief Society Magazine during my mission. It contains wonderful thoughts of inspiration. Although most of our investigators speak Spanish, they enjoy looking through the Magazine, and they all look forward to the day when it will. Be published in Spanish. Elder Grant Davis Quezaltenango, Guatemala Central America rhe Relief Society econ 

Volume 52 December 1965 Number 12 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 884 The Exalted Sphere of Woman Hugh B. Brown 894 The 1965 Relief Society Annual General Conference Hulda P. Young 908 Christmas Seals Mean "For Real' Appointments to the General Board 892 Lucile P. Peterson Julia Rae P. Keith 893 Elaine B. Curtis Fiction 896 The Perfect Christmas Betty Lou Martin Smith 900 Mother's Christmas Tree Brownie Bernice Brown 902 The Tinsel and the Ornaments Christie Lund Coles 932 Ring Around Her Heart Chapter 8 (Conclusion) Shirley Thulin Generali Features 882 From Near and Far 905 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 906 Editorial: The 135th Semi-Annual Church Conference 960 Birthday Congratulations The Home -Inside and Out 909 How Many Days Till Christmas? Janet W. Breeze 910 Lauretta Craner Makes Quality Quilts 911 Festive "Sand Bakels" for the Holidays Hjordis Skollingsberg 914 I Ama Fish Pond Verda F. Burton 915 Roses Bloom Upon a Winter Tree 916 Red Ribbon Tree 917 Candle Bowls Make Decorative Gifts 917 Quilts Make Lovely Gifts 918 Christmas Decorations — Simply Beautiful 920 Home — The Place of Christmas 924 A Toy Tub for the Children Peggy Ann Horton 925 A Colorful Circus Tent Mormon Handicraft Shop 926 A Clever Disguise for a Basketball Hoop Jrene Lloyd 927 Red and Green for the Holiday Table 928 "Inner-Glow' Glass and Resin Lamps Joy N. Hulme 956 Under the Surface Ruth House Lessons for March 937 Theology — An Introduction to the Word of Wisdom Roy W. Doxey 942 Visiting Teacher Message — "Cease to Find Fault One With Another" Christine H. Robinson 944 Work Meeting — Cleanliness Is Next to Godliness Hazel S. Cannon 946 Social Science — Personal Standards Alberta H. Christensen 951 Literature — The Place of Suffering in Life — Part II Bruce B. Clark Poetry 881 For All Mankind Mabel Jones Gabbott On a Snowy Evening, by Linda Clarke, 890; Winter Respite, by Kathryn Kay, 891; At Christmas Time, by Pauline M. Bell, 899; The Remembered, by Lael W. Hill, 901; I Love Life, by Zara Sabin, 908; Where? By Ruth G. Rothe, 911; To Make a Christmas, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 912; Abstractionist, by Ethel Jacobson, 936; For Nancy After a Day Together, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 950; Wish on the Moon, by Bernice Ames, 958. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1965 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Sait Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving ald and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Sait Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3,,1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

The Exalted sphere of Woman President Hugh B. Brown Of The First Presidency mI am sure that you, being women, cannot appreciate what a mere man feels like, standing in your presence, nor can you appreciate what it means to try to follow so many excellent addresses as we have listened to today. All we can do is pray for guidance and for your sympathetic understanding. This morning at nine o'clock all of the General Authorities of the Church assembled in the Salt Lake Temple, preparatory to the coming conference. Talks were given, testimonies were borne, and a very fervent prayer was offered at the altar, where we prayed for the Relief Societies of the Church and for the success of this great conference. President McKay asked me to bring to you his love and blessing, and I asked if he had a special message. He said, '"'Just tell them that there is not another woman's organization in the world in any way comparable to the Relief Society," in which I heartily concur. You will be glad to know that President McKay is better, 884 (Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1965) that he has been in meeting from nine o'clock until I left to come here at two o'clock, and they were still in meeting, and he was participating actively. We just hope he does not overdo before the conference. It is always a privilege and an honor to be asked to meet with this wonderful group of Relief Society workers in General Conference. There was a time when women met, despite determined opposition, to carry on _ their courageous fight for women's rights, sometimes secretly because repressed, and more often militantly and dangerously. But the fight was finally won and we men are proud of the great leadership which you, our fellow workers, have developed. In your courses of study, you have considered and been instructed in many subjects, including the responsibilities which these rights entail. Rights always involve responsibilities. Because of limitations of both time and capacity, I propose to confine my message to a consid- eration of the favored position of woman in the home and in the Church, and her obligations to her husband and children; how she can best magnify her calling and share in the blessings of the Priesthood; how she can improve and glorify not only her own person and status but that of her companion and family and, thereby, effectively serve the Master. Through the institution of marriage, which is ordained of God, men and women become partners in life's most difficult, most glorious and most responsible undertaking, the rearing of children to become valued members of society and workers in his kingdom. The home is the first schoolroom, and its lessons, good or bad, are carried: into later life and are as endurable as life itself. The family concept is one of the major and most important of our whole theological doctrine. Our concept of heaven itself is little more than a projection of the home and family life into eternity. What a tragedy when this divinely appointed institution is wrecked on the dangerous reefs of divorce. Great poems, novels, plays, great books of history and biology attempt to present the psychology and emotional aspects of marriage in the lives of individuals. These, together with voluminous case histories indicate that marriage at all times, in every culture, and in the widest variety of circumstances is one of the supreme tests of human character. Laws and customs represent only the external or social aspect of marriage. No discussion of these externals can give any impression of the inwardness and depth of the problem which marTHE EXALTED SPHERE OF WOMAN riage imposes. In a recent issue of the Reader's Digest I read a pertinent reference to the failure of material things and mass organization to satisfy a prevailing unrest and unhappiness to be found among so many people in our time. The article declared that there is a secret citadel within all men and women of good will and to find it is an individual quest —the most urgent and significant quest of our lives. This secret citadel is our inner _ spiritual selves; it is the divine within us; in its discovery and promptings lie our only safeguards against discouragement and despair in the battle of life. It is in fact our only reliable security. May I pause to remind you of the last speaker telling us something of what experience means and how to meet problems. May I hold her up to you humbly as a wonderful example of how a woman can stand up against almost insuperable difficulties, heartbreak, bereavement, sorrow, and carry on valiantly. God bless Sister Spafford. The family is the central pillar of the Church, the key to the arch of civilization. But whether pillar or arch, it must be supported and maintained by the character and devotion of the contracting parties who, especially in the Church, covenant with each other and with God to jointly build, maintain, and glorify it by themselves, observing and helping all who become members of it to observe the Godgiven laws by which it is or should be regulated. I was deeply impressed by the discourse on love, and we were told we were to love the Lord with all our minds. This is a B85 DECEMBER 1965 challenge to every man, woman, and every child, for that matter, to prepare our minds for a comprehension of God, and, in that comprehension, to worship him, and this is a natural result of knowing him. So I commend to you the wisdom of preparing your minds, your spirits, for the great responsibility which has been mentioned today regarding the home. And what is the role of wife and mother in this glorious but stupendous undertaking? It is, first of all, to accept with deep gratitude the part which was assigned to her by a loving and all-wise Heavenly Father and yhen to spend her life trying to magnify her calling in humility and in love. She will solidify the very foundations of the home by inspiring, honoring, and sustaining her husband in righteousness, helping him to magnify his calling, to keep a proper sense of values and, together, achieve salvation, immortality, and eternal life for their celestial family. There was handed to me just recently a tribute from a son to a mother. This could be said of many, if not most, of you, but I would like to bring it to you as a testimony of that son as to what his mother had meant to him and to the rest of the family. Here's to Mother, Grandma, and Great-grandmother: Some are called to serve in front of the group, to be seen and praised' (well-deserved praise) of men. Mother belongs to that noble class of great souls who serve mainly behind the scenes without the plaudits of men. Her husband and their children have been the goal in her life. All of the time that Dad has been serving the Church, Mother has been making the great quality of his service possible. WithB86 ™~ out her selflessness, her guilelessness, her utter trust and devotion in him and in his work, little of what he has accomplished would have been possible. Here's to you Mother - the true power behind the throne - an helpmeet and an handmaiden - you have seen us all through joy and sorrow. The accomplishments of your husband and your offspring are your accomplishments. You have lived many lives in sweetness and serenity. I thought how that would apply to Sister Fletcher, who spoke to us this afternoon. The scriptures say that the man is not without the woman in the Lord. President Brigham Young said this: "And I would say, aS no man can be perfect without the woman, so no woman can be perfect without a man to lead her. I tell you the truth as it is in the bosom of eternity; and I say so to every man upon the face of the earth; if he wishes to be saved he cannot be saved without a woman by his side." Does this emphasize the importance of your task? In this blessed but difficult task, each wife and mother must daily and hourly seek divine guidance and pursue her tasks with the serenity and tranquility of one who is in contact with omnipotent power. I like the following stanza: I meet God in the morning, When my day is at its best, And His presence comes like sunshine, Like a glor'' in my breast! All day long His presence lingers, All day long He stays with me, And we sail in perfect calmness, O'er a sometimes troubled sea. So I think I know a secret, Learned from traveling down life's way— You must seek God in the morning, If you want him through the day. Women should never allow their role as mother to overshadow their role as wife. They are both obligations divinely imposed and they should be inseparable. Neither husband nor wife can coast in on the attainments of the other; salvation is a joint undertaking, a family affair. The wife becomes an integral part of her husband's ambitions and accomplishments; she is, in fact, his other — often better — half. She must keep pace with him, keep physically fit, intellectually stimulating, and spiritually inspiring, must understand what the Lord expects of him and help him to attain it. This is her privilege, and to some extent, at least, she will share the responsibility if there is failure. Some women have been heard to say that they feel cheated because they do not hold the Priesthood. To this complaint a granddaughter retorted, '""The men hold the Priesthood, but the women hold the men." And I think she had a point, for you have much to do with the success of your husbands. Yes, you can hold and you can mold them and for this task you have been divinely endowed. The apostle Paul said, in I Corinthians,.. Man is the image and glory of 'Ged: but the woman is the glory of the man. (I Corinthians 11:7). I hope you will remember that and let us lean on you a little more. We are great leaners. What great satisfaction comes into the soul of a woman who knows she has been instrumental in helping to open the heart and mind of a man to sympathetic understanding, that truth may THE EXALTED SPHERE OF WOMAN enter and love take control. There is no better way to worship and glorify God than by assisting his sons on the upward and difficult climb. This takes patience, tolerance, forbearance and other typically feminine virtues. To those of you whose husbands are not as active as they should be or as you desire them to be, remember again that the Lord has said, "For man is not without the woman in the Lord." My daughter has suggested that the word "not" should be spelled "naught," and really man is naught without the woman. You provoke us to good works, and though we, in turn, sometimes provoke you, your encouragement and unwavering faith are often all we have to keep us in the path of right. First we are encouraged by the influence and inspiration of our mothers and later that of our wives. From experience, I can truly testify that your inspiration and faith become our buckler and shield. This comes into the life of a man when he has a woman by his side who believes in him, encourages him, makes him think he can when he thinks he can't, and I speak from experience. We need the finest in you to support us when we feel weak and inadequate. From Father Adam on down through the ages men have needed to be inspired by the steadying influence and purifying power of women. ' The Prophet Joseph, in addressing the first Relief Society, said, '"'How precious are the souls of men! The female part of the community are apt to be contracted in their views. You must not be contracted, but you must be liberal in your feelings. Let this 887 DECEMBER 1965 Society teach women how to behave toward their husbands, to treat them with mildness and affection."' And I may add, when a man is borne down with trouble, perplexed with care and difficulty, depressed and_ disheartened, if he can meet a smile instead of a murmur, a subdued but contagious optimism and faith, instead of complaint, when his mind is troubled and the storms of life seem to engulf him, the solace of affection and kindness of his wife will calm his soul, soothe his feelings and make him almost fit to live with. If you wives, mothers, and sisters exercise your privileges, the angels will become your associates and mentors, and you will have renewed courage, fortitude, and faith, and will become not only helpmates but both anchors and wings as well as charts and compasses. You are indispensable to rich and radiant living. So I say to you, sisters, don't give up because your men are not all you would wish them to be, but maintain your faith, not only in them but in your Heavenly Father's help and your own ability to fulfill your role as a helpmate. Never cease to work and pray for divine guidance in your divine calling. Thus may you hold your families together and prepare them for the eternities to come. To a great extent, the husband's success depends upon his wife's fitness. Government in the State and in the Church constitute an important part of the lives of the people, and the government in the home is the basis of all successful government. In the home, the mother is the principal disciplinarian and teacher in early life, and her influence determines, in a great measure, the ability of her children to succeed in manhood and womanhood in the larger responsibilities in Church and State. She is initially the instrument in the hands of providence to shape and guide the destinies of nations, because she trains the children while they are young and sends them out to accomplish the duties that are to devolve upon them. However, the husband and wife together are, by commandment, to teach their children the principles of the gospel. If they fail to do this, they assume grave responsibilities. In selecting men to occupy responsible positions in the Church, it sometimes happens that a useful and competent man is barred from consideration because of the want of fitness in the wife. Although a wife may not actually bar a husband's opportunities, she may prove a great hindrance to him in the discharge of his duties, which are, in fact, joint duties that belong to his office. But, much more frequently, as we travel about the Church, we find that the wife proves to be his chief counselor and adviser. We thank the Lord for the quality, stability, and faith of our sisters. Sisters, seek to be educated in the highest meaning of the term. The Church abjures ignorance and acclaims intelligence. Get the most possible service out of your time, your body, and your brain, and let all your efforts be directed into honorable channels that no effort shall be wasted and no labor result in loss or evil. Seek the very best society, be kind, polite, agreeable, seeking always to learn whatever is good and comprehend the duties of life that you may be a blessing to your companion, thus placing your lot in life on a par with his. There are people fond of saying that women are the weaker instruments, but I don't believe it. Physically they may be, but spiritually, morally, religiously, and in faith, what man can match a woman who is really converted to the gospel! Women are more willing to make sacrifices than are men, "more patient in suffering, more earnest in prayer." They are the peers and often superior to men in resilience, in goodness, in morality, and in faith. When I reflect upon the duties and _ responsibilities devolving upon our mothers, wives, and sisters, and the influence they wield, I look upon them as the mainspring, the soul of life. It is true that man is supposed to stand at the head, but he must be worthy of that trust. Father Adam was placed here on earth as king of the earth to bring it into subjection, but when Mother Eve came she brought an endowment which he lacked; she made him whole and made it possible for him to fulfill the purpose of his creation. Mothers and wives inspire high ambition, give zest to the whole man and help to shape and guide his destinies. The role of wife and mother is a self-sacrificing role, and because this is so, 2 woman comes closer to understading and emulating the life of the Master who, Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered; And being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him (Hebrews 5:8-9). THE EXALTED SPHERE OF WOMAN A worthy and devoted mother qualifies to receive all the blessings mentioned in the Beatitudes. She is humble and teachable, she is pure in heart, she often mourns and is ever meek. She hungers and thirsts after righteousness and is uniformly merciful. She is a peacemaker, and, shifting to the Epistle of Paul, she suffereth long and is kind, she envieth not, vaunteth not herself, is not puffed up. She rejoiceth not in iniquity but rejoiceth in the truth. She beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, and endureth all things. She thus becomes an ideal member of the _ Relief Society. Because of her, charity never faileth. Let each Relief Society worker ask herself whether she is providing, first, the spiritual foundations for her children, foundations upon which they may build the superstructure which will stand at the last day when the winds of doubt and confusion beat upon their house, when only those founded upon the rock of eternal truth shall stand. Referring again to a former speaker's words, "All houses are beat upon sooner or later by the storms of life." One of the most inspiring thoughts in this connection is that the storms beat upon the house that is on the rock as well as the one on the sand, and the fact that your house is built upon the rock will not excuse you from the lessons that the storms have to teach. Thinking of our privileges, obligations, and responsibilities as they affect our lives in the world to come, the words of President John Taylor are pertinent: It is the gospel that teaches a woman that she has a claim upon a 889 DECEMBER 1965 man, and a man that he has a claim upon a woman in the resurrection; it is the gospel that teaches them that, when they rise from the tombs in the resurrection, they will again clasp hands, be reunited, and again participate in that glory for which God designed them before the world was. I can personally testify to the influence of a good mother and a good wife; in fact, I think I must be somewhat of a specialist in this matter of women; I had seven sisters, six daughters, one mother, and one wife, and fourteen granddaughters, and some great granddaughters. I speak, then, from experience when I tell you that you have a choice assignment; you are favored of the Lord; he couldn't be everywhere so he sent you. God bless you that you will measure up to your assignment. Now I know that some of you are wondering what we are going to say to the men about this. If you will come to the Priesthood meeting Saturday night, you will know. I, for one, propose to hold up to the men the grave responsibilities that rest upon any man who marries a. Woman, who fathers a child, who holds the Priesthood that he may honor it and, in honoring it, may honor God. We commend and congratulate this great organization of women. You have a world-wide reputation and responsibility. We are proud of your outstanding leaders. They are honored and respected by women's organizations throughout the world. We pray the Lord's blessing upon them and upon you loyal and efficient stake and mission officers and upon all members of this powerful and efficient arm of the Church. As we sing together, 'Home, Sweet Home," let us resolve to go home and have our regular home night, study the lessons that have been prepared, and lead our children in a circle of prayer, that they may-come to know God: and: to bask in the sunlight of. His love, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. On a Snowy Evening Linda Clarke Softly, like the twilight hour, Snow dims the church and grounds. Gently in a song of hope An organed hymn resounds. From an open chapel door A beam divides the night And tracks there, by the faithful made, Are etchings on the white. Pray for those not citadeled, Far from the light's warm span, Alone upon the fringe of night Cowled in the words of man. 890 Send me your flakes of snow; Pile them high upon fluffy pile! Under their softness my beauty will -grow. Just let me rest a little while. Wind, Wind, — a —-laaaa Whisper a bedtime story, To my mountains, my valleys, my everything, While we sleep and dream of the rampant glory We'll bring to the world come spring. ~ Lucile P. Peterson Appointed to the General Board Julia Rae P. Keith Our family rejoiced at Mother's (Lucile P. Peterson's) appointment to the Relief Society General Board, September 29, 1965. She has been training for such a position all her life. Mother was born in Ogden, Utah. Her father, Chauncey Parry, died when she was four years old, and her mother, Julia E. Hutchens Parry, reared her seven children, teaching them the principles of the gospel. Grandmother spent thirty years as ward and stake Relief Society president in the North Weber Stake. When thirteen years old, Mother's Church service began. She has been president of the ward Primary, YWMIA, Relief Society, and stake Relief Society. My father, M. Blaine Peterson, and mother were married in the Salt Lake Temple during the depression years. He enrolled in law school in Washington, D. C., and when they returned to Utah they had a law degree and two young children. Father has had Mother's willing support in all his Church and civic activities. During the years he spent in the United States Congress, as Representative of the First Congressional District of Utah, she had many interesting experiences. As president of the Chevy Chase Ward Relief Society, in Maryland, she worked closely with the missionaries. Our home has been one of love and understanding. My brother, Major Richard B., who married Joan Hinckley Willes, is a radiologist in the Army Hospital in Landstuhl, Germany. | attended Brigham Young University, and married Bill G. Keith in the temple. Thomas P., who is attending Weber State College, served in the North German Mission as assistant to the mission president. MaryLu is a sophomore at Brigham Young University. Mother attended Weber College, Utah State University, and studied a year in New York. She served as secretary to the President, the Board of Trustees, and the Alumni Association of Weber College. She is presently a member of the Board of Trustees of Weber State College, and is on the Coordinating Council of Higher Education of Utah. She and Father are active on the Parents Committee of Brigham Young University. May our Heavenly Father continue to bless her in her new calling. 892 Elaine B. Curtis Appointed to the General Board Elaine Broadbent Curtis was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, September 29, 1965. A daughter of Sylvester Broadbent and M. Josephine Murdock Broadbent, she was born in Heber City, Utah. Her early schooling was in Heber City and when the family moved to Salt Lake City, she resumed her studies at the LDS High School. Sister Curtis is a graduate of the University of Utah with a B. S. Degree and teaching certificate. Sister Curtis and her husband, A. Ray Curtis, are the parents of five children, one son and four daughters. Mrs. Vaughn L. (Patricia) Belnap, Plainfield, New Jersey, Mrs. Ronald R. (Carol) Ollis, Mrs. Michael H. (Mary) Gourley, Thomas R., and Jody Curtis, all of Salt Lake City. Tom and Jody are attending the University of Utah, while the other members of the family are busy caring for the eleven grandchildren who are the pride and joy of the Curtis family. Sister Curtis has been active in ward and stake auxiliaries in Highland, Cottonwood, and Holladay Stakes, serving as a member of the YWMIA and Primary presidencies, teacher in the Beehive and Gleaner departments, Sunday School teacher, Primary teacher and secretary, Junior Sunday School coordinator. She is a past member of the Jordan Valley Regional Council, Cottonwood Maternity Hospital, and Deseret Industries Board. During the time her children were in school, she also served in various capacities in the Parent-Teacher Association. She is a past member of the Granite School District Curriculum Committee. In Relief Society Sister Curtis has been a visiting teacher for many years. She served as Work Counselor in the Cottonwood Stake for one year prior to her assignment as President, in which position she served until the stake was divided, then became president of the Holladay Stake Relief Society to complete a term of six years. Following this experience Sister Curtis became president of the Holladay eighth ward Relief Society. She and her family recently returned from the Southwest British Mission where her husband presided for three years and Sister Curtis directed the mission Relief Society organizations. While in the mission field she and her husband were assigned to supervise the MIA activities in the West European Missions. 893 Hulda P. Young General Secretary-Treasurer @ On Wednesday and Thursday, September 29 and 30, approximately 10,000 leaders of Relief Society from 396 stakes and 29 missions throughout the Church assembled in the Tabernacle on Temple Square and in nearby chapels for departmental sessions, to receive instruction, motivation, and inspiration to aid them in their respective callings in Relief Society. Representatives were in _ attendance from the United States, including Alaska and Hawaii, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, Switzerland, Germany, France, England, Scotland, Australia, New Zealand, and isles of the Pacific. At the opening session on Wednesday morning, upwards of 3,400 stake and mission leaders eagerly received the evaluation given by President Belle S. Spafford of the work of Relief Society during the past year, and important policy instruction to guide Relief Society in the months ahead. Inspiring reports were given by former leaders of the Southern Far East Mission and the Irish Mission, and the president of the new stake at Wellington, New Zealand. The universality and unity of the world-wide sisterhood of Relief Society resounded deeper in the hearts of those assembled as the St. Johns 894 Stake Singing Mothers, who provided the music for this session, sang most impressively, "One World." Elder Roy M. Darley was at the organ. Because of a meeting in the temple for all of the General Authorities, President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Harold B. Lee, advisors to Relief Society, were unable to address the opening session. Sister Jessie Evans Smith, however, read the inspirational message which had been prepared by her husband, President Smith, declaring the individual duty of each member to teach the gospel by precept and by example. Brother Roy W. Doxey, author of the current theology course on the Doctrine and Covenants, was invited to speak in place of Elder Lee. He gave an edifying discourse on the subject of testimony. Wednesday afternoon at the general session, heartfelt messages of encouragement, counsel, faith, and persuasion were given by President Spafford and her counselors, Marianne C. Sharp and Louise W. Madsen, and by Sister Elna P. Haymond of the General Board. Mrs. Lorena C. Fletcher, American Mother of the Year, also spoke impressively. President Hugh B. Brown of The First Presidency delivered a soul-stirring message to the women of the Church, who were given greater insight into the "favored position" of women in the home and in the Church, and a broader vision regarding their important role of wives as well as mothers in Zion. The music for this session was gloriously rendered by a combined Singing Mothers Chorus from Beaver, Cedar, Cedar West, Kanab, Panguitch, Parowan, St. George, St. George East, Uvada, and Zion Park Stakes, concluding with the inspiring hymn, "Home, Sweet Home," directed by Sister Florence J. Madsen of the General Board. Sister Ellen N. Barnes of the General Board directed the chorus in one anthem. Elder Alexander Schreiner was at the organ. Two new General Board members were sustained, making a total of forty-nine members. Wednesday evening approximately 3,000 stake and mission Relief Society leaders were warmly welcomed by the General Board to the reception in the Relief Society Building. In separate sessions Thursday morning, detailed instructions were given to all twelve members of Relief Society Stake Boards —to presidencies, secretarytreasurers, music leaders, Magazine representatives, work meeting leaders, visiting teacher message leaders, and to theology, social science, and_ literature class leaders. At the concluding session of the Conference, Elder Delbert L. Stapley of the Council of Twelve gave a stimulating address on the subject of "Relief Society Administration Leadership." This was followed by a moving presentation entitled RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONFERENCE "Home Is My Harbor," written and directed by Alberta H. Christensen of the General Board. Through a glimpse into the life of a typical Latter-day Saint family, the presentation impressively portrayed the great influence Relief Society can be in the lives of its members and the pronounced effect the Priesthood and Relief Society coordinated courses relating to teaching and living the gospel in the home, can have upon Latter-day Saint families. | As the concluding speaker of the Conference, Elder Marion G. Romney, an advisor to Relief Society from the Council of The Twelve, outlined the procedure to be followed by Relief Society leaders in coordinating with the Priesthood Home Teaching Program to enlist all women of the Church in Relief Society, and to help them maintain consistent attendance at their meetings. Elder Romney imbued those in attendance with an added conviction of the inspiration of the General Authorities in the development of the new Church Correlation Program, and with a desire to support fully all aspects of this program. All assembled joined at the conclusion of another great Relief Society Annual General Conference in singing "Love at Home," which seemed to reecho the need to make each Latterday Saint home a haven of beauty, love, harmony, and unity, and a _ foundation for eternal exaltation for all of its family members. Through Relief Society, the wives and mothers of the Church are aided in the accomplishment of this great responsibility. 895 he L i w A blanket of fresh snow covered the ground, making the colonialstyle home with the typical green shutters a picture for a Christmas card. Inside the cozy home, Judith Blair busied herself making cookies for the fast approaching holiday season. Excitement filled the atmosphere in anticipation of the days to come. My family will soon be home, Judith thought, as she worked, a glowing look of happiness upon her delicate face. She and her husband Henry had looked forward to the holiday season for so long. It would be the first time that the family had been together in three years. Steven, their son, had been stationed overseas with the Air Force and Kathy, their daughter, was away at college in her sophomore year. Judith remembered pleasantly the times that she and Kathy had spent together shopping for the holidays, and she could hardly 896 =rfiech Christa: Betty Lou Martin Smith wait until they could have that time together again. We've always been such a close family, she thought, and now there'll be just the four of us as it was before Steven went overseas. Putting the cookies in the oven to bake, Judith walked over to the window. Outside, the shadows cast a strange, mystic light as the twilight came. The view was indeed breath-taking, and she breathed a sigh at its loveliness. It will be a perfect Christmas this year, she smiled contentedly to herself. The ringing of the telephone brought. Judith back to reality as she hurried to its beckoning. "Hello, Mom, this is Kathy." "Kathy!" Judith was surprised. "Is everything all nght? I didn't expect to hear from you again before we met the train." "Everything is just fine, Mom," Kathy explained. "I just wondered how you would like to have guests over the holidays? My two roommates, Sue and Angela, are going to be left here alone for the holidays. It is too far for them to go home; and I thought maybe it would seem more like Christmas to them if they spent it with us." Judith was glad that Kathy couldn't see the disappointment on her face. "Kathy, I was planning on just the four of us spending the holidays together," she managed. Kathy was silent for a moment, "Everyone needs a family at Christmas, Mom. I've already sort of asked them. I know that I. Should have called you and Daddy first." Her composure regained, Judith added quickly, "Of course, dear, if that is what you want, then we will make the best of it." "I know that you won't be sorry, Mother. You'll like the girls every bit as well as I do. I just know it." Kathy's voice was excited. '""We'll see you in a couple of days." * * "It sounds great to me," Henry Blair, a distinguished man with graying hair, said, as he hung his overcoat in the hall closet. 'I like young people around, especially at Christmastime." "T know where Kathy got her impulsiveness from, Henry." Judith was annoyed. 'She never could turn away a stray cat or dog and neither could you. She should think of her family before she acts." For the first time Henry noticed the crushed look upon his wife's face. Over the years he had come to know her every mood so well. THE PERFECT CHRISTMAS "You're disappointed that we are not going to be just the four of us this year, aren't you, dear?" Gently Henry put his arms around Judith. The tears of disapproval finally gave way in Judith. "I thought this was going to be the best Christmas ever, and now Kathy's bringing the girls with her. I know that I sound selfish, Henry, but I did so want us to enjoy this Christmas." "There's certainly no reason in the world why we can't enjoy Christmas as much this year as we ever have," Henry comforted his wife. "T wish I had your compassion, Henry." Judith dried her eyes. "T'll do my best to make them feel welcome. I won't let Kathy down." "That's my girl."' Henry smiled. "T think that we should get them a present so they won't be left out on Christmas morning." "Trust you to think of everything. Of course, we wouldn't want the girls to feel left out of things." As Kathy had promised, the girls were very sweet and seemed to fit into the home exceptionally well. Even quiet, good-looking Steven was more jovial and talkative than usual. Kathy's roommate, Sue, was small and brown-haired with an air of mischievousness about her, and the sprinkling of freckles across her upturned nose added to her charm. Angela, a lovely, dark-haired girl, was less talkative than Sue, but every bit as charming in her quiet way. "Aren't they simply terrific, Mom?" Blue-eyed Kathy bubbled as she helped her mother in the kitchen. "And they think that 897 DECEMBER 1965 the family is simply terrific too." "Yes, they are very nice, Kathy." Judith tried to sound convincing. The day before Christmas dawned bright and crisp. The earth appeared as an enchanted fairyland with its sparkling white snow. ''What a simply glorious day to go shopping." Kathy went into Judith's room and found her seated in front of the window. "Aren't you ready, Mom? We're going in a few minutes." "T didn't plan on going with you, Kathy." Judith turned her face away from her daughter. "You young people don't want me tagging along with you." "Oh, but we do, Mrs. Blair." Angela stood in the doorway. "It will be more like being at home having you with us. Please go." "Oh, please do, Mrs. Blair," Sue added as she walked up to the side of Angela. "It will be such fun." A pleasant feeling came over Judith, and her face flushed becomingly. 'Well, I guess that I might as well. It will only take me a few minutes to get ready." She was flattered that the girls would want her with them. Judith couldn't remember having spent a happier day in her entire life. The girls were so congenial and such fun to be with. The Christmas carols sounded out joyously as they walked from store to store, and the sidewalk Santas added their warmth to the day. "TI can't ever remember having walked so far on carpus,' Sue commented, as she removed her shoes and flopped into an easy chair. "Mrs. Blair is the only one who doesn't seem tired at all. I 898 'honestly don't know how parents do it." Angela and Kathy laughed. "I know that I can't keep up with them," Angela chided. "T don't know whether I am going to be able to dance tonight or not," Kathy said weakly, "although it is very thoughtful of Steve to get us dates." "Oh, come on now, Kathy. He just arranged it so that he could go with Angela," Sue teased. "Honestly, Sue, I don't know where you get your ideas from." Angela blushed as she tried to match Sue's wit. It was evident that Steven was quite taken by Angela. He had never been so attentive to a girl before. "I must say that Steven has good taste," Judith said approvingly. Christmas Eve the girls took over little chores that had always tired Judith before, and she could not remember having felt so rested the day before Christmas. She went about her remaining tasks leisurely, enjoying every moment of her family's and guests' happy chatter. The very air had a mystery about it, as if it were truly about to proclaim the anniversary of the Savior's birth. How beautiful and tranquil the world seemed, and how beautiful and tranquil Judith felt in her heart. That evening after supper, everyone gathered in the living room to hear Henry's traditional reading from the Bible, the story of the Savior's birth. Kathy turned the Christmas tree lights on, and they flickered merrily in the warm light of the fireplace. Judith let her gaze rest upon each of the faces before her, and I eyes also f k were new that have a Ore beay- "You are ome, m dear." Ul experie Ce or feel as She did Judith 1] €ant it. "And J at that moment. Ant you to know that | can't After nry had finished eadTemember a More berfect Christng, ther Was a hushed Silence mas,"' —____ At Christmas Tim Pauline M. Belj Christmas 'S made of Many things— Hope and qd Ms to he family glad Happy Children, bells th t 4 Som rees Olored lights nd Caroled we Frost UPON the Window Scenes Our kindreq a | nd their 8ifts of love, Million little Stars 9 Snow. Yet long we sha And foreve 899 Brownie Bernice Brown oe @ Mother's tree put on its Christmas hat every December. The rest of the year it was a plain, everyday blue spruce doing sentry duty on our front lawn. In the beginning, when we three children were small, it wasn't much to rave, about. Short, stubby, and spindly... But the tree grew along with us. Memory has obscured the exact year Mother decided to light the tree. But I remember her brown eyes sparkling as she watched from the window while Dad and our brother strung the lights like holly berries around and around the spreading blue-green branches. When all was ready, Mother flicked the switch, and we all stepped back in awe as our little old everyday tree became a magic tree ablaze with lights. Located as it was on a hill, and twinkling like the stars in the black sky above its head, the tree signaled the arrival of Christmas to homes for miles around. As the years hurried by, the tree became harder to light, its branches shooting up until' they seemed to strain against the sky itself. But the tree was always lighted. Mother later added some novel, flickering, "on-off" lights to delight the small grandchildren who had joined the family circle. The lighting of "'grandma's tree'? Became a local symbol of the Christmas season. Its gay lights were visible for miles in the clear frosty air. It heralded the arrival of the "season to be jolly" to an entire town. Then came last year. December inched closer and closer into the Christmas season. The tree remained dark—only icy patches of snow ornamented its branches. The grandchildren walked quickly by, their eyes averted from the black and shuttered house behind the dark 900 MOTHER'S CHRISTMAS TREE tree. No one came home for Christmas last year. Home was only a house now. A deserted, empty house, looking with sad black eyes out over the snowy valley. Tentatively, we two sisters wrote our prother—was he going to light Mother's tree anyway for auld lang syne? Our sister-in-law's letter came after the Christmas season was over. Yes, our brother had intended to light the tree, but in the end he could not bring himself to do it—why put lights outside the house on Mother's tree, when the light inside the house, which had been our Mother, was gone. Sadly, we agreed. But this Christmas things will be different. The tree itself demands it. The tree has kept on living... And growing. - - proudly on its topknot is a spindly sprig of shiny new blue needles. They point up toward the shining heavens, and, like Mother's tree, we must rub the raw edges off our grief and keep growing, too. What better could we do for our Mother than to let her tree, blazing with lights, proclaim to the valley, from its hilltop, that we do believe in the deep and true meaning of Christmas, and that the light she planted in the hearts of her children still glows and will continue to bring joy to the world! The Remembered Lael W. Hill Low sky days Bewildering with silver Write your name in wind; Al! Unhued hours Pooled on air's crystal Speak in light your eyes. (What though kaleidoscopic moments Leaf the tree, Petal new seasons, Break from the colored bough Again.- - again?) The pure, pale, lucid fall Of words less fragile than time Reveals the always you And we have never parted. @ Susan looked about the beautifully decorated living room with the tree tilting just a trifle forward in the corner near the fireplace; the reindeer and sleigh on one corner of the mantel; the nativity scene in the center; and small angels in a circle, singing, at the other end; a holly wreath over the door. She always waited until New Year's Day to take things down. In fact, she couldn't imagine people who dismantled their tree the day after Christmas. Perhaps, it was those who got theirs early, and were aware that it had served its purpose. There was always a little sadness, removing the ornaments, putting the tinsel and the gleaming balls into their respective boxes. There was sadness just thinking of it now, as she looked about her, the room lights out, the tree lights flickering, giving a rich, pink radiance to the room. Each year took the three children a bit farther away from the wonder and the magic that made 902 Christie Lund Coles Christmas the glorious thing which it was. But it was behind Susan now. It was New Year's Eve, and she must hurry to be ready for the few guests who were coming in to play games, to have a late supper and watch the New Year enter. The two younger children, Nadine and Scott—eleven and nine —were in the TV room watching a favorite program. They had eaten, and been promised that it they stayed there tonight they could have two friends in for dinner tomorrow; but, if they were awake, they could come down at midnight, and have a horn and a hat. She hoped that Jill and Randy (and their friends, Alice and John) would be here too, to form a friendship circle, to sing "Auld Lang Syne," to drink the warm cider punch. Was that why she was a bit sad _ tonight, remembering that Jill had turned eighteen just a few weeks before Christmas? That she was no longer even a big, little girl? She was a young woman. She had reached her maturity. And she and Randy were fond of each other. Very fond. The two of them had gone to Alice's place for dinner and were going on to another party. Jill had promised to drop in before the party. Susan hoped she would not forget. She wanted to invite them, once more, to the midnight circle. Yet, she could not be offended if they preferred dancing the old year out with their friends, and came later. Susan was just picking up a fallen ornament (the tree was getting dry), when she heard laughter and footsteps in the hall. She looked up. Her husband and the four young people were entering at the same time. Peter had some joke for them, even though he had just made a house call to see a sick child. (Good, good Peter, always dependable, always conscientious when other doctors might even refuse to go, telling the mother what to do, advising her to bring the child to the office the next day. He had said, "The mother needs reassurance. Night can be such a bad time with a child sick."' Yes, he was the best.) A sudden thrill went through Susan, hearing the laughter, the talk; being aware that they were shaking the newly fallen snow from their shoulders and boots. She turned to greet them, smiling. "Hi," the young people called back, Peter said, "Hell-o." Then, addressing his daughter and her three friends, he went on, "Doesn't Susan make a picture in her gold dress, beside that pink Christmas tree? Can you wonder why I fell in love with her?" Jill said, "Oh, Daddy. For THE TINSEL AND THE ORNAMENT goodness sake!"" But Susan could tell she was pleased. Some wise person said, "The greatest gift a man can give his children is a respect for their mother." Peter gave her that, surely, and more than that. He gave her his great love. And admiration. She had tried to earn them all, of course. Susan reached her hand to Peter, and the other four moved about the room a little awkwardly, though they had always seemed at home before. Jill had moved over to the mantel, and was fondling one of the small angels which somehow resembled the girl, with its long, blonde hair and blue eyes. Suddenly, Randy was beside her, and the two looked at each other quickly, then away. Susan went to speak, then stopped, knowing her daughter was about to speak. She did, rather slowly, the words coming faster as she went on:''Mother, Daddy, we're going over to Evie's for this New Year's Eve party, you know. They've decided to have an allnight party. We thought we'd tell you.". Her pretty, dimpled chin was set. She had been careful to say, "tell you," instead of "ask you." "All night?" her father asked, "You'll be pretty tired." Susan's mouth was dry. She asked, "Will her parents be there?" Jill smiled, almost patronizingly, 'Well, after midnight, I imagine they will be home... And in bed. We're not going to do anything that will need chaperoning, for pity's sake." "But... To stay there till morning..." her mother protested. 903 DECEMBER 1965 Jill was ready with the hackneyed answer, "Well, all the girls do it. And it's just once a year. We'll have breakfast. It will be real keen." Real keen. Susan sat down, her knees suddenly too weak to hold her standing. She groped in her mind, in her heart, for words to say, words that would not irritate, not offend, but would make a point. She couldn't tell the girl —certainly not in front of strangers—how easy it was to be tempted. She couldn't confess that once when she was young, she almost stayed out all night, almost knew the power of temptation. Peter and she had had to stop on a lonely road, in a rainstorm. They could not see a hand before them, and had waited for it to cease. She had _ leaned against his shoulder for warmth and his arm had drawn her close. He had kissed her, and alone— with the rain beating a weird, unreal sound on the windows—she had felt unreal, too, and caught up in a strange sweetness, just being near him. She loved him so. But, she had remembered her mother, her father, all the things she had been taught. Of course, Peter was a gentleman, and loved her enough to protect her. But, even a gentleman... Sometimes She closed her eyes, wanting to say something, to warn Jill of possible dangers. She wished she could speak to Peter alone, could plan some strategy which would not irritate nor anger their child. Something which would not be melodramatic, didn't Peter say something? There was nothing to do but come out with an out-and-out No. That was the simplest, the 904 but mght: Why © surest. There wasn't time for quibbling. They were waiting for an answer. Susan glanced briefly into her daughter's eyes. She looked tired. It had been a hectic holiday season. School would start in a few days, yet the girl would not admit to being tired in front of her friends. There was only one thing to do. Susan started to say, firmly, "T'm sorry but " She saw the girl stiffen, and felt she couldn't bear it if Jill answered, "'m sorry, but I'm eighteen." Susan paused before she went on, wanting to tell Jill they would like them to come back home, to be in the friendship circle as they sang "Auld Lang Syne." Then, her husband, Peter, the girl's father was saying, "What your mother is trying to say is that if that is what you really want, it is all right." Susan caught her breath in disbelief, but before she could say anything, he was going on, "But, none of the women on either side of the family has ever stayed out all night." There was complete silence in the room. Jill looked at Randy. He smiled. She smiled in return, saying, "Well, I wouldn't want to break a family tradition, now would I? We'll be back by midnight. Have plenty of that good cider punch." She kissed her parents, and Alice looked at her with something akin to envy in her eyes. "Happy New Year' filled the air. But Susan, looking at the tree standing in the corner, was glad she had extended Christmas with its big and little miracles. She felt Peter's arm about her shoulders. Ramona W. Cannon Iphigene Ochs (Mrs. Arthur Hays Sulzberger), seventy-three, is the daughter of Adolph Ochs, who bought and began publishing the New York Times in 1896. She is matriarch of her family circle and is on the Board of Directors. Her son, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, is president and publisher. She is a powerful influence in keeping the Times up to the standards maintained by her father: vast knowledge in every field, encyclopedic coverage of material, accuracy, and the impossibility. Of anybody's buying its influence. Miss Betty Skelton of Detroit, Michigan, set a new international record for women's land speed in driving a car last September on the Bonneville Salt Flats near Salt Lake City. Her record was 277.62 miles per hour. Miss Phyllis Steorts of Salt Lake City, is president of an international organization known as Executive Secretaries, Inc. Mrs. Gwen Cafritz is one of the first 250 people to carry ''on the person" alarms. The new invention, planned to help fight crime, beginning in Washington, D. C., is an F. M. Radio transmitter that can be carried in pocketbook or briefcase to send a message to a private monitoring service, which, in turn, informs the police. At the same time it sounds an audible alarm to frighten away the criminal. Mrs. Cafritz, a Washington hostess, was a recent robbery victim. Mrs. Sue Weiss worked with Dr. Melvin Selzer (both from the University of Michigan) in a study to discover the proportion of chronic alcoholics among drivers responsible for fatal accidents on the road. The results indicate that the percentage is almost fifty. Caroline Field, nationally known _ for her work in children's libraries, is head of the children's library in Philadelphia. She has brought to her city, and to the country at large, an awareness of children's needs for good literature, and of what constitutes high-quality reading for children. Miss Marguerite Piazza is a beautiful and popular opera star who believes that one must have versatility to succeed today. She is praised for both singing and acting. She also dances and sings jazz. Helen Waite Papashvily has written a lively biography of Louisa May Alcott for children from ten to fourteen years of age. Those familiar with Miss Alcott's autobiographical novel Little Women will note with enjoyment the. Relationship between the facts of Miss Alcott's life and the fictional incidents which developed from them in the novel. Joan Ritchie, nationally famous folk singer, who specializes in ballads of the Appalachian region, also plays the dulcimer, an instrument of ancient origin. 905 EDITORIAL The 135th Sem/i-A nnual and 3, in the Taber enlightenment, an nated by more th. It was a time of rejoicing, d inspiration. The messa Church Conference all the saints to make a determined and constructive effort to uphold the institutions of freedom. We should understand that each of us has a duty to honor, support, and sustain our civil leaders and the law. The fact that everyone is entitled to his or her own opinion insofar as various matters of law and government are concerned does not relieve any one of us of the personal responsibility to obey, honor, and sustain the elected governmental officers and the law which it is their duty to administer. Surely as we face the future there is reason for concern, but there is no _reason for despair. Let us find a reason to lift, to build and to uphold. President N. Eldon Tanner emphasized the two-fold nature of laws established for the government of men upon the earth—protection and punishment. To us the law is the bedrock of our basic ideals: democracy, freedom, justice. However, from day to day most of us take our law for granted. We forget about it until we need it or break it, but law looks over our shoulders constantly, seldom intruding on us, so much a part of our lives that it has become more of a guide than a restriction, more protection than threat of punishment. Let us remember, too, and never forget, that if we keep the laws of God, the greatest of all law-givers, we will automatically keep the laws of the land, and that the laws of God, if kept, will ensure peace, security, and happiness here on this earth, and lead us to immortality and eternal life. A farewell blessing was given by President McKay in words of tender concern and counsel. My brethren and sisters, as we come to this parting hour, | should like to say to you that the teachings and life of the Master never before seemed to me more beautiful, more necessary, and more applicable to human happiness than they are today. Never have | believed more firmly in the perfection of humanity asethe final result of man's placement here on earth. With my whole soul | accept Jesus Christ as the personification of human perfection—as God made manifest in the flesh, as the Savior and Redeemer of mankind. The National Tuberculosis Association @ The fight immediately facing us is a tough one. Despite the best efforts of all medical and social workers, the long retreat of TB has temporarily ground to a halt. The fight against emphysema, bronchitis, and other crippling lung diseases has just begun. That's why this year's Christmas Seal appeal, the only source of funds available to the Tuberculosis Associations, is one of the most important in history. Your contribution will help assure that final victory —not dream-style, but for real. Most illnesses—those that result from infection, anyway—are in and out of the human body in a fairly short time. With TB it is different. Whether or not the infection develops into active disease right away, the germ settles down to stay. Not just for a year or so—but for the lifetime of its human '"'host."' These "'hosts'' are some thirty-five million people. About that many Americans have TB germs in their bodies. That was the report to the nation by the United States Surgeon General's Task Force on the future of tuberculosis control. How many of these 35,000,000 ''break down''? And what happens when they do? Answer—each year about 53,000 develop (or break down into) active TB, each capable or potentially capable of spreading TB to others. And another 10,000 previous sufferers from the active disease, suffer a relapse. That is why this year's Christmas Seal appeal, the only source of funds available to the Tuberculosis Associations, is one of the most important in history. Your contribution will help turn the tables on TB and help assure that final victory, not only for tuberculosis but other crippling respiratory diseases. Please use Christmas Seals generously on all your holiday mail. And answer your Christmas Seal letter with a heartfelt contribution. | Love Life Zara Sabin Life!! Love it, All there is of it: Its winds and its rains, Its high hills and plains, Its days that are fair— Red roses everywhere. All there is of it. This life, | love it. 908 Janet W. Breeze m The yearly joyful suspense leading up to Christmas is one of the most exciting events of childhood. And the extra little fun things that mothers and grandmothers do to enhance the anticipation, create lasting memories for starry-eyed youngsters. ~ Here is a new twist to the old European custom of celebrating the pre-Christmas that can be fun for the whole family. Instead of a calendar or numbered scene which helps count the suspenseful days, decorate your dining room table, or some corner of the house, with a "Sugar Plum'' tree. First, find a small, but sturdy, tree limb which can be successfully sprayed silver, gold, green, or any other color you desire. At the same time, paint one candy box or shoe box for each anxious child. (And we suggest spray painting outdoors, if at all possible.) When the paint is dry, "plant" your tree in a foil-covered container in which you have placed a ball of modeling clay. Fill the container with rocks to prevent the tree's tipping with the weight of decorations. Next, give each child in the family a supply of old Christmas cards or colored construction paper, glue, and glitter, so he can make one decoration for each allotted day until Christmas. Decorations cut from old cards or made from paper should have a small hole punched in the top end for threading through a strong loop, ornament book, or wire, for attaching to the tree. In addition to paper decorations, each child's collection could also include small silver bells, candy canes, small packages of raisins, little colored paper sacks containing sugared cereal, nuts, or other Christmas treats. When the decorations are complete, they are safely tucked away in the boxes which were painted earlier. Each child can decorate and personalize his own box as desired. Now for the best part. Trim the tree with as many pieces of candy, raisin boxes, cereal bags, etc., as there are days till Christmas times the number of children. Then — every day — each child gets to exchange one decoration from his box for one goody on the tree. Christmas Eve, the last exchange is made, and Christmas is finally here! When the holidays are past, strip your tree of its seasonal - items and save for that preschooler who keeps asking, "How many days till my birthday?" 909 %. 69% AY Ts tant whem Lauretta Wells Craner, Burley, Idaho, lives on a farm and enjoys the beauty of fields and flowers, her garden, and her home. She has won many awards at the county fair for her cooking, sewing, and flower arrangements, but she is bestknown for her remarkable skill as a quilter and a designer of quilts. One of her quilts, exquisitely made, tells the Story of Lauretta's marriage to John Craner and the events of her later life. Another quilt features an arrangement of tulips in rich and glowing color. Her patchwork quilts, she says, are stitched with memory. Her appreciation for beauty and order is evidenced in her well-kept home, where pillowcases, dish towels, and handmade aprons exhibit the art of a devoted homemaker. 'Il want to keep my home always beautiful," she says, '"'and especially at this time when my husband, who is ill, needs encouragement and cheerfulness around him." Mrs. Craner has been active in all the women's auxiliaries of the Church. All of her married life she has been either a visiting teacher or a member of the ward presidency of Relief Society. Now, at the age of seventy, she is president of the Star Ward Relief Society. For many years she has kindly ministered to the sick and the bereaved, and has opened the doors of her home to those in need. She is the mother of nine, grandmother to forty-two, and great-grandmother to fiftyfive. 910 | | | | FESTIVE "SAND BAKELS" FOR THE HOLIDAYS Hjordis Skollingsberg Kearns North Stake, Utah As a feature of the Kearns North Stake, Utah, visiting teacher convention, the theme of "Around the World With Relief Society" was effectively presented by the sisters of the stake who were born outside the continental United States. Hjordis Skollingsberg, who was born in Norway, made some of her famous "Sand Bakels" for the refreshment table. The "Bakels" are tasty and very attractive. They have a special appeal for parties and for the holiday season. "SAND BAKELS" (Fancy Tarts) Preheat oven to 350° For crust: 2. Add: Mix: lc. And 2 tbsp. Butter 3c. And 3 tbsp. Flour 1 ce. Sugar (add more flour, if dough is too sticky) 1. Add: 1 egg 3. Add: 1 big tbsp. Heavy or whipping 1 tsp. Almond extract cream Beat well together Press dough into tart forms or tart tins (muffin tins or individual metal jello molds can be used) and bake. The dough should be about 4% to \% inch thick. Bake until golden brown. Fill with whipping cream. (In Denmark the tarts are filled with vanilla pudding.) Then put a layer of strawberries or strawberry jam, then a layer of whipping cream, and a cherry on top. Where? Ruth G. Rothe Where, oh, where Has the time gone? People wonder every day. Perhaps they should be told The truth, that— Time has slipped—AWAY! 911 or two to sit beside, Where Io ve and faith a bide, i ree, » ane he Chorus Stilled so And One Ss To lend a Sp Hal Rume! | | Fr _ rich Ir ariel A New Version of an Old Game Verda F. Burton Member, General Board of Relief Society (Displayed at the Work Meeting Exhibit of Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 1965) Model: Dora Z. Fotheringham, Holladay Stake The skirt was made from an old sheet dyed orange, and decorated with brightcolored pockets cut with pinking scissors from scraps of printed material. (For directions, see continuation on page 931) 914 = =. ®. ' 3 ' ou - | ors 7 a Se eke EYE Ce ae ha ey eats ties TS EEE We o Hal Rumel aoe | '«? 5. Made by Susan S. Curtis, Bonneville Stake, and Jane N. Sheffield, Monument Park Stake. A graceful evergreen tree (pine, fir, spruce, juniper, cedar) sprayed a glistening white, and adorned from top to bottom (in the center), with a streamer of pink roses makes an unusually lovely Christmas tree. The tree in the picture, in addition to the trimming on the tree itself, has a garland of roses trimmed with pearls, arranged on a crescent of greenery, to form a ''frontage,'' and to make a place for stacking the Christmas presents. A tree sprayed in pink or pale blue could be trimmed with pale yellow or white roses, or a plain evergreen tree might wear garlands of roses—red or pink or yellow. 915 Hal Rumel decorated with red velvet ribbon bows Allen seated Ponderosa pine tree, inexpensively and attractively and pine cones. The Don B. Allen home, Salt Lake City, Utah; Christopher in the chair. 916 CANDLE BOWLS MAKE DECORATIVE GIFTS Attractive candle bowls can be made by covering plain crystal bowls (fish bowls can be used) with gilded hair nets and placing the bowls on a metal base, or a base carved from wood and sprayed with gold or silver paint to match the color of the gilded net. To gild the net, lay it on a piece of waxed paper and spray the segments of the net carefully on both sides. Allow to dry thoroughly. Using a small brush, lightly touch the inside of the net with strong glue, and attach to the bowl. Artificial flowers or candles are then placed in the bowl. Roses sprayed with gold make a lovely arrangement in a golden netted bowl. QUILTS MAKE LOVELY GIFTS Anna Nielsen Smith of Crescent (Mount Jordan Stake, Utah), displays some of her lovely quilts—a gold-colored satin coverlet, a quilt in gay butterfly design, and an historic cream-colored quilt with an embroidered motif featuring the Crescent Ward chapel. Ae Christmas Decorations — simply Beautiful Made by Darlene C. Dedekind, member of the General Board of Relief Society, and displayed at the 1965 Work Meeting Exhibit. The styrofoam base of an unusually attractive centerpiece is covered with boughs and pine cones sprayed with gold. Triangles of glass, glued to sticks, are inserted into the styrofoam base, and candles, arranged behind each triangle of glass, add a festive glow. His, A lovely wreath with styrofoam base wrapped in ribbon is covered with flowers also made of ribbon, interspersed with green velvet ribbon and artificial greenery. A big green velvet bow is added at the top. An interesting hanging decoration made of a triangle of red felt is adorned with a wicker design, artifical greenery, Christmas bells, and pine cones. Little bells on a cord hang from the bottom. Transparencies by Hal Rumel IF HOME the Place of Christmas And the Season—A Time to Remember Decorative arrangements from the LeRoy Pia home _ Salt Lake City, Utah ry 09 egy — iN.. DINING ROOM The long table is covered with a white linen cloth accented with a red runner of brocaded taffeta. A narrow runner of green velvet centers the red material. Six green candles ring a grouping of artificial fruit and plastic balls as a centerpiece. A bow of green velvet ribbon accents the red and green balls hanging from the chandelier. The Christmas tree, standing between the white candelabra, is made of Oregon grape leaves, sprayed a dark green, and ornamented with plastic balls, some of which contain small electric lights. The tree body is made of styrofoam. MUSIC ROOM—LIBRARY Maroon-colored love seat and chair; pictures above the love seat come from Brazil and are made of butterflies. The artificial tree is trimmed with plastic balls and crystals taken from a chandelier (plastic crystals could be substituted). The colors harmonize with the pale green walis and ceiling. Transparencies by Hal Rumel 921 > 512345 1998 KITCHEN AND BREAKFAST NOOK VIEW A runner of red felt borders the top of the wall, decorated with cutout figures of bells, Santa Claus, and stars. They are attached with glue. The holder for Christmas cards is made of red felt, with a green pocket. The interesting and unique twenty-four day calendar in the center of the wall is decorated with a felt Christmas tree to which are sewed sequins and small glittering belis. The small decorative figures on the calendar are felt pockets, each one containing a small gift. On each of the twenty-four days preceding Christmas, one pocket is opened by the children and the gift placed upon the Christmas tree. The white tureen centerpiece on the round table is filled with artificial fruit, pine cones, and holly leaves. A Christmas apron made of burlap, decorated with drapery balls, is laid across the smaller table. SHANOA'S ROOM AT CHRISTMAS TIME The tree on the table is made of raffia. Some of the raffia is left in its original dark nink color and some of it is sprayed a pale pink. Gold and silver glitter crystals are sprinkled on the raffia and small lights glow in the branches. The raffia is given body for the branches by being intertwined with wire. The small dark green tree on the floor is really a music box, jeweled and pearl-encrusted. Se ee eee es mint meat. — A Toy Tub for the Children a Peggy Ann Horton, Murray South Stake (Displayed at the Work Meeting Exhibit of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, 1964) 924 Hat Rume! The toy tub in the picture is 151% inches tall and 201% inches in diameter. It is glue. Bias tape is glued along the top to cover the rough edge, and red fringe is attached to make a gay-looking trim for the tub. The felt train, made from 2 pattern in a coloring book, is glued on the denim. Toy tubs and toy boxes can be mounted on rollers or on wheels for easy moving from place to place. Handles can be attached to the tub or box for ease in lifting. A Colorful Circus Tent e ee ee Mormon Handicraft Shop This clever little card table tent can be made for a total cost of $5. The materials needed are 414 yds. Print broadcloth, 2 yds. Pink percale, 1% yds. Green percale, 314 yds. Fringe, 1 bolt bias tape, and 2 felt squares, in different colors, for the flags. To make the tent, cut 12 triangles of pink and green percale (6 of each) 10" across and 23" deep, for-the top. Sew them together, alternating the pink and green. Then cut five widths of 36" material (print broadcloth) 30" in length, for the sides of the tent. Cut out the round windows (8" in diameter) and bind with bias tape. Sew the sides together, leaving an opening for the door. Face the door flaps with pink percale, then bind the door flaps with bias tape. Put a hem in the bottom of the tent. An inch heading is allowed before sewing the sides and top of the tent together. Add fringe. Then cut the flags from the two felt squares and attach to the top of the tent. Hal Rume! A Clever Disguise for a Basketball Hoop Irene Lloyd, Member, General Board of Relief Society idea for tissue paper flowers originated by Darilys Rowe Hill, Ensign Ward, Ensign Stake Hal Rumel This clever basketball hoop disguise is simple to make, very inexpensive, and very effective. All you need to make it is a bushel basket, spray paint, chicken wire, scrub oak, or other kinds of branches, tissue or crepe paper, and a little bit of imagination. Paint the bushel basket, then stuff the chicken wire into the basket to make a base for holding the oak branches. Stick the oak branches through the wire, and add some tissue paper flowers. To make a flower, take 3 half sheets of tissue paper, fold them in half vertically and cut three scallops on each end. Then take each half, separately, and roll it on a broom handle and then crush it up together, to make the veins of the petals. Tie the three halves together in the middle with wire, and then open up the sheets of tissue paper to form the rounded petal flower. Tie to a scrub oak branch. 926 Red and Green for the Holiday Table ee OR OT "sy i ae e nam by we. ~ a» =m Hal Rumel A lace tablecloth was placed over a green undercloth to make the effective ''groundwork'' for a festive design using holly and other greenery, accented with the deep red of carnations and apples (both real and artificial apples were used). Artificial cherries could be substituted for use in a similar design. The tall silver epergne, with matching serving dishes and candelabra (with red candles) make a pleasing harmony. A crystal or a milk glass epergne could be used effectively. Baskets of small slices of fruit cake and pecan rolls, wrapped in colored cellophane and tied with red and green ribbon were placed on the serving table, and were presented to the guests as favors. 927 nga pg * pene eae ccmmmee ""Inner-Glow'' Glass and Resin Lamps Joy N. Hulme Fiber-glass and Poly-paste Lamp made by Lila N. Blanchard Inner-glow Resin Lamps made by Joy N. Hulme Transparencies by Dorothy J. Roberts "INNER-GLOW"" GLASS AND RESIN LAMPS (Instructions are for a small TV light — 4" diameter by 9" high. In Parentheses are sizes for hanging Inner-glow Resin Lamp The Mold consists of four Parts: (1) A wooden base approximately 10" x 10" x 4" with 14°" x y" Strips Of wood fastened around the edge. (2) A piece of rolled tin, aluminum, Or stainless stee| 814" x 15" (1114" x 19"; 1514" x 20") to form cylinder. (4) Two Pieces 10 mil Plastic film not affected by resin); one, (14" x 18"; 14" y 18"), to cover the inside of rolled metal. Selecting Glass Choose colors that wilf harmonize with or Provide an accent for the "; and table lamp base 6" x ig'"-). Fiber-glass and Poly-paste Lamp room in which you plan to use the lamps. Do not overlook Clear glass, which looks like Crystal, and is availCal insulators (from power Poles) are other sources of glass. If you plan to uS€ green in your lamp, remember that this color dominates when the light is On and use about half as much as you think you want. Preparing Glass Start with Clean glass and it before you try to break it. This is done Clean, it is best to wrap the glass in foil to prevent burning grease from Making 929 DECEMBER 1965 dark spots on it. Always keep glass covered when pounding; break it inside a paper bag or between lintless cloth on a hard surface. When pieces of the desired sizes are reached (dime to nickel sizes for small lamps; up to fiftycent size for large lamps) sift the "sand"' out with a course strainer or screen. You will need about four pounds (10; 13) of prepared glass. Place the glass in a strong shoe box and mix with an old spoon. Wash in ammonia - water (no soap) and dry thoroughly before using. Setting Up the Mold Cover the core by wrapping mylar tightly around it and secure the mylar with tape tabs. Remove the core and run a long piece of 34'' heavy-duty tape along the inside of the mylar tube. Remove tabs. Trim mylar so that only a small overlap remains. Replace on core. Roll the metal strip, overlapping the ends until the desired diameter 4" (514"; 6") is reached. Hold in place with tabs, and then fasten securely with three long overlapping strips of tape along the seam (these should be carried over the end and three or four inches to the inside of the cylinder). Put mylar inside and, making sure it fits tightly, secure with tabs on inside. Remove and fasten with strip of tape on outside. Remove tabs and replace in the mold. Place core near center of base. Place cylinder over it, keeping the seams at the back; adjust so that the thickness of the walls will be the same. All around. Place a pencil mark on the base where the front and side edges of the cylinder should be. Remove the cylinder. Pour melted paraffin into base around the core. Quickly place the cylinder into wax, matching it to the pencil marks. Let set until wax is hard. Pouring the Lamp Have all materials close at hand on newspaper or foil; the glass in a flat box with a spoon to your right; mold in front of you; resin, catalyst (the hardening agent for the resin); measuring cup (a peanut butter jar with measurements is good for this); mixing can (quart juice can), and stick for stirring 930 44" x 20" dowel or equivalent) to your left. Mix one pint of liquid resin with a short 14 oz. Of catalyst (or measure as indicated by instruction on product), and stir well. Pour into mold one or two cups at a time, depending on the size of the lamp. Stir glass and put it, a tablespoon at a time, all around the lamp, being extremely careful that the pieces do not slip between the mylar lining and the mold. Pack glass tightly by tapping with the stirring stick. Repeat until metal mold is full, making sure all the glass is covered with resin. As you near the top, mix and pour in less resin, so that you do not fill it too full. Let the lamp set at least 24 hours. Removing Mold Knock off the base by tapping with a hammer. Cut tape along the seam and peel the outer mold and mylar lining away. Holding lamp securely, remove the core by tapping with a hammer on top. Remember this piece is tapered and will come out only through the bottom. Clean up pieces of mold and save to be used again. The lamp is now ready for wiring. Wiring An electrician can do this for you or provide you with the materials to do it yourself. Only the sockets and globes will be mentioned here. The small lamp takes an intermediate socket and 5"" tube globe to fit it (25 watt). The hanging lamp will need to be drilled to accomodate a spider assembly for hanging. It needs a regular size socket and 5"' 40 watt globe. The table lamp uses a regular socket and 11" 40 watt globe to light the base. FIBERGLASS AND POLY-PASTE LAMPS Select papier-mache forms of the shape you wish from a hobby shop, or from your home (pasteboard cartons, beach balls, etc), or you can cut and combine the basic shapes in many ways. Lamps are made in as many sections as necessary for molds to come out (usually two). Do not forget you will have to replace the globe so leave an opening large enough. Dip the molds in melted paraffin until they are covered with at least two coats. After this has cooled, cover the outside surface with mold release (available at hobby shops). Cut fiberglass reinforcing material to fit the form, using wedge-shaped pieces to fit tapered shapes. Use rubber gloves or talcum powder if your skin is sensitive to the glass fiber. Mix a paper cupful of resin and over catalyze it (15 drops per ounce). With an old brush, paint this resin over the glass fiber, saturating it. Do this with all parts of the mold. Set on wax paper and let dry about one-half hour. At this time the resin should be in the gel stage, and you can clean off excess from the edges with scissors or a knife. When resin is dry, apply poly-paste (thickened resin). Color (with poly-dye) enough poly- "INNER-GLOW" GLASS AND RESIN LAMPS paste to do entire lamp as it is hard to match the color. Catalyze small quantities at a time as you use it. Spread poly-paste on the form and press in decorations as you do. These may be glass pieces, cast resin pieces, shells, marbles, plastic flowers, etc. Leave some large areas near the edges uncovered until after you have joined the pieces so the seam won't show. After the poly-paste is hard, carefully pry the forms away from the molds. Join the parts together with Poly-paste and finish the uncovered parts. Let dry completely before wiring. (If the materials for making the lamps described in this article are not available in local shops, they can be purchased either in person or by mail from the craft and hobby shops which advertise in The Relief Society Magazine.)! AM A FISH POND Verda F. Burton (Continued from Page 914) Directions: 1. Turn selvage up 1 inch around the bottom to thread wire for hoop. Measure 16 inches above, mark with ruler, and make a 1-inch tuck for the next hoop. 2. 3. Measure 12 inches above, and make a second l-inch tuck for upper hoop. 4. Cut for desired skirt length; make 20 darts 3 inches deep at waist, tapering to nothing at second tuck to make less bulk at waist. 5. Make a ll-inch hem around the top and thread with twill tape to tie at waist. 6. Sew on pockets, making sure you skip over tucks. 7. Sew up side and run wire through tucks. Rm, The girls will love to pay their money and choose a pocket from this old-fashioned oll. A clown suit, a companion to the doll, is fun for the boys' choice of pockets. It -was made by Irene L. Heusser of Sunnyvale Ward, California. She used a white sheet jor the suit and added bright-colored pockets, with a large red ruffle around the top. These two living dolls will really make a hit at a bazaar. Balloons tied to the shoulders or carried in the hands add a festive note. Darts € Vava Vow tuck -—"#— tuck selvage length of sheet CHAPTER 8 (CONCLUSION) Shirley Thulin @ Joan hurried towards Doctor Niles' office. In the last hour she had changed her mind back and forth a dozen times about resigning. She was hurrying now so she wouldn't change it again. She looked up as David fell in step with her. "Boy, where do you get all your energy this early in the morning?" he asked. "I've been chasing you clear down the hall. Tom wants you." "T'll see him on my rounds," she said. "He said he needs you right away is something wrong, Miss Morgan?" "I I guess I could see him now, did he say what he wants?" "No, but he sure is one happy guy these days, thanks to you." "Don't forget, you thought of getting him to go to school." "Yes, but you convinced him," he laughed. ''See you later." Joan hesitated a moment be- 932 fore going into Tom's room. She wanted to be in command of herself when she talked to him. He must not know she was leaving the hospital. "Hello, Tom. Today's the big day, isn't it?" "Yes, in about an hour, so I wanted to be sure I got to see you before I went." "About an hour? So soon?" "Yes, I was going tonight with Doctor Desmond and Kathy, but my mother and my uncle are coming for me." "Well, how nice. I'll be missing you, Tom. You'll write to me, won't you?" "T'll come to see you every time I come to town." "That that will be nice." "Miss Morgan... Did you know about Doctor Desmond and Kathy?" "Yes, I know you?" "Oh, you can learn a lot of things if you just keep your eyes who told and ears open. You like him, don't you?" "Doctor Desmond is a very fine doctor." "TI mean you really like him don't you? He likes you, too." "Tom, I haven't had breakfast yet, and I have loads of work to do." "Miss Morgan, are you planning to be an old maid?" Tom grinned. "Tom! BP) "You know, sometimes I wonder what would have happened to me, if you hadn't come here. Do you remember how mad I used to get at you?" "Yes, I remember." "T used to think, what does she know about it? But you know what made me start to believe the things you were telling me?" "No, what?" "One day you smiled at me. It was the day you told me I was going to have my casts taken off. I like it when you smile, Miss Morgan." Joan was embarrassed. She tried to joke. "Is it that far between smiles?"' "T've only seen you smile a couple of times. You're almost as bad as Doctor Niles. He doesn't smile very often, but he's a real nice guy. Miss Morgan, what would you do if everybody kept talking about two people and you wanted to tell them they had everything all wrong, I mean, how would you go about it?" "Now there's a question that doesn't make sense at all." "Well, I mean... Everybody thinks that Doctor Niles is an old grouch and he really isn't. He just never shows what he's really thinking." "How can you tell?" RING AROUND HER HEART ''Because he comes in here lots and talks." "He does?" "Yes. And then everybody thinks you... Well, that you are the same way, but you're not. They even thought you didn't care when Joey died, but I knew you did." Tom was very thoughtful. "And now Kathy's getting to be that way too." "Tom, sometimes things happen." She was thinking about what Doctor Desmond had said about the steel band around her heart. '""People change, Tom." "Can they ever change back again?" "Sometimes. Are you all packed, Tom?" Joan changed the subject. "Have been since last night. Kathy helped me." "Are you going to start school this quarter?" "I hope to. David's going to help me.... If only I can pass the entrance exams." "T'm sure you can." "We're going to ask Mom if David can stay with us at the farm on week ends and we'll room together in town. We may live right on the campus." "Oh, Tom, that would be great. You make me wish I were starting back to school. It's always so exciting the begining of a new school year." Joan left after a few minutes. Her goodbye was brief, and when Tom promised to come and see her often, she didn't have the heart to tell him she wouldn't be there. As she went towards Doctor Niles' office, she recalled what she had said to Tom a few moments before. Beginnings were always exciting. When she began to 933 DECEMBER 1965 be a nurse, it was exciting. When she had begun her job at Hillcrest, it was exciting... And now it would be exciting to begin somewhere else. She tapped at the door and entered at his request. He was busy with a stack of papers. When he looked up, she couldn't say a word. "Yes?" his voice was the same as it was the first day she had come to his office. So cold and impersonal. His eyes were the same. There was a time when she thought she had read some fondness for her in his eyes, but not now. "Doctor Niles, I have come to talk to you about I want to resign." The Doctor put his pen down and looked at her for a moment. "Why, Miss Morgan?" "J _.. I feel that I have lost my effectiveness here lI " "Where do you plan to locate?" "J I don't exactly know. That is ' and she felt her cheeks grow hot. She remembered all the weeks of planning and checking she had done before choosing Hillcrest, and this time she hadn't even given a thought as to where she might go. "Maybe you just need a little rest a vacation." "No. I don't need a vacation. I just need to get away from here."" Her eyes were burning with unshed tears, but she stood there unflinching, holding them back. Doctor Niles looked at her a long moment then, pen poised, and looking down at his papers, he told her it was, of course, her prerogative, "TI'll draw up the necessary papers," he said, and went back to the work on his desk, thereby dismissing her. 934 Joan felt faint. She somehow let herself out of his office and took a step or two down the hall. The feeling of anger boiled within her. What did I expect him to say? She asked herself. But she knew... She had hoped he would give her an argument and coax her to stay. He hadn't, and now she was angry and hurt and more mixed up than ever. She started to go to her room, but changed her mind. If I go to my room, I'll just give in to my tears, she thought, and I'm not going to. I'm going to stay on the job and do the things I have to do and tonight I'll write some letters to some hospitals. "Joan." It was Kathy. "Yes?" She was surprised at the tone of her own voice. It sounded just like Doctor Niles. "TI wondered if you'd been to see Tom. He's leaving this morning." "Yes, I saw him. He's looking fine, isn't he?" "Joan, did Dean say anything to you this morning... I mean about." "About the two of you? Yes, he said he was going to talk you into marrying him. I can tell he already has." "Yes it didn't take him long to talk me into it, did it?" Kathy smiled and her eyes were soft. "He proposed over a pile of charts in the chart room." They both laughed. "That's wonderful, Kathy. I know you'll be very happy. He's a wonderful fellow."' "Do you really mean that? That you are happy for me?" "Of course, why do you ask that?" "Because I thought. You were in love with him.". That "There was a time when [ thought I was, or at least that I - could be, but no, Kathy. I'm not in love with your fabulous Doctor Desmond." "Then you will be my maid of honor? We're going to have the biggest wedding ever." "Thanks, Kathy." She didn't tell her that she might not be around for the wedding. All during the morning Joan had a little nagging in the back of her mind. When she let herself think about the scene in Doctor Niles' office, she was angered, and when she thought of Kathy's question about whether she was in love with Dean, she had a funny little pleased feeling that kept coming forward and. Making her feel as she used to just before Christmas when she was a child. I feel like something is about to happen, she kept telling herself, and yet she knew that Doctor Niles was sitting in his office getting her resignation papers ready. He's probably enjoying every moment of it, too, she thought. He didn't even care one bit that I was leaving. As the morning wore on, the two emotions kept coming and going until by lunch time, she was in a highly nervous state. She realized she hadn't had anything to eat, and she certainly didn't feel hungry now, but somehow, maybe from habit, she found herself going into the cafeteria. Kathy and Doctor Desmond were in their favorite corner. Suddenly, seeing the two of them together made her jumbled thoughts straighten themselves out. All of a sudden she knew why she was so angry at Doctor Niles. She knew why she was glad she had been able to tell Kathy RING AROUND HER HEART she wasn't in love with Doctor Desmond. She was thankful to Tom for what he had said about Doctor Niles not ever showing what he really felt. She was walking down the hall towards Doctor Niles' office with a new spring in her step. She was frightened, a little, but she knew she had to say what was in her heart, because she knew he never would. She almost changed her mind when she put her hand up to knock. Her throat went dry when he said to come in. Doctor Niles was standing by the window, and he turned towards her when she came in. She looked at him. His eyes were different than she had ever seen them before. She suddenly wished she hadn't come. "Yes?" he said. "It's about my resignation. I l've changed my mind." "Are you sure?" "Yes, quite sure. I " She tried to read his face, hoping to see something, anything to let her know she had it figured out right, but she could tell nothing. "I "What is it, Miss Morgan?" "Have you heard about Kathy and Doctor Desmond?" 935 DECEMBER 1965 "Yes, he came in and talked to me for quite some time last night." "T'm very happy for them." Joan was afraid she was sounding like a schoolgirl, but she couldn't leave, without saying what she had come to say. "Doctor Desmond and Kathy found love, and there for awhile, I was afraid they wouldn't. I mean the way Kathy was acting and all." She stopped talking, hoping he would say something to help her, but he didn't. "You know, people can't go through life like that. As Kathy was beginning to be. What I mean is the more a person tries to be hard and keep from getting hurt, the more that person gets hurt.. And also hurts everyone else, too. You just sort of have to take the hurts as they come along and.. And " Joan began to feel the cool tears spill over and down her hot cheeks. Doctor Niles came over to her. "T have known that for a long time. Today, when you came, I He went back to his desk but he didn't sit down again. "Joan, I have been so wrong for so long that I didn't even know how to start being right. When you came in here this morning I wanted to tell you. The bottom of my world dropped out from under me, and I just sat there and didn't say anything to you " "T know, I know just how you felt.... I've done the same thing." "'When you told me you wanted to go, I thought it was because of Kathy and Doctor Desmond. It wasn't the reason?" "No. I just wanted to run again. Trying to find someplace to belong... Trying to find someone to." Doctor Niles came around to the front of the desk. He took Joan in his arms quickly, as if he were afraid he would change his mind if he didn't hold her close right then. "Joan, do you think you can teach me to smile? You did once... Remember?" "Yes, I remember...." And she did remember that smile... And she remembered the warmth she had always felt whenever she was with him. "Will you teach me, Joan, will you?" "Yes oh, yes." "Good. Then I've decided to accept your resignation." "You you what?" "You won't have time to work in the hospital, you are going to be so busy being my wife. You will, won't you?" "Oh, yes, if." "Tf what?" "If you'll take the ring from around my heart." He smiled then, and it was a wonderful smile. Abstractionist Ethel Jacobson Modern art From the start Was the field our precious Cherub chose. 936 You see, at three Already she Does finger painting With her toes! Y YY ME = —} 47 Lesson Department ~ _ THEOLOGY — The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 70—An Introduction to the Word of Wisdom (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 89:1-3) For First Meeting, March 1966 Objective: To understand that the Word of Wisdom is a commandment. INTRODUCTION On the 27th of February 1833, the Prophet Joseph Smith received the revelation known as the Word of Wisdom. Latter-day Saints know this section in the Doctrine and Covenants as the one which emphasizes certain temporal benefits to be received by the members of the Church who live by its teachings. To think of this revelation as benefiting the observer physically is erroneous, because there are rich spiritual blessings to be derived from its observance. BACKGROUND As far as we know, most of the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants came in answer to inquiry by the Prophet Joseph Smith of the Lord. President Brigham Young gives us the following information. I think I am as well acquainted with the circumstances which led to the giving of the Word of Wisdom as any man in the Church, although I was not present at the time to witness them. The first school of the prophets was held in a small room situated over the Prophet Joseph's kitchen, in a house which belonged to Bishop Whitney, and which was attached to his store, which store probably might be about fifteen feet square.... The brethren came to that place for hundreds of miles to attend school in a little room probably no larger than eleven by fourteen. When they assembled together in this room after breakfast, the first thing they did was to light their pipes, and, while smoking, talk about the great things of the 937 DECEMBER 1965 kingdom, and spit all over the room, and as soon as the pipe was out of their mouths a large chew of tobacco would then be taken. Often when the Prophet entered the room to give the school instructions he would find himself in a cloud of tobacco smoke. This, and the complaints of his wife at having to clean so filthy a floor, made the Prophet think upon the matter, and he inquired of the Lord relating to the conduct of the Elders in using tobacco, and the revelation known as the Word of Wisdom was the result of his inquiry (Journal of Discourses 12:158). FOR THE SAINTS IN ZION Section 89 is a_ revelation whose title was given by the Lord. As pointed out above by Brigham Young, the Word of Wisdom was given for the benefit of the council of high priests assembled in Kirtland. Notwithstanding the revelation was given to these persons, it was to go also to the saints in Zion, and to the Church. A Word of Wisdom, for the benefit of the council of high priests, assembled in Kirtland, and the church, and also the saints in Zion— To be sent greeting; not by commandment or constraint, but by revelation and the word of wisdom, showing forth the order and will of God in the temporal salvation of all saints in the last days (D&C 89:1-2). NOT BY COMMANDMENT To help the saints realize the need to observe this law, many of the living prophets have emphasized that the words in verse two establish that this revelation is to be lived by all Latter-day Saints. Elder George F. Richards said the following on the subject: I would call your attention to a part of the second paragraph in the 89th section, which reads as follows, referring to this revelation; it "'was 938 given by revelation, and the word of wisdom, showing forth the order and will of God in the temporal salvation of all Saints in the last days." We have accepted Joseph Smith as the prophet, seer, and revelator of this last dispensation, and in doing so we accept these revelations as being the word of the Lord to us. Here the Lord expresses His will, in very plain terms, that this revelation is given "showing forth the order and will of God." If for no other reason, this should be sufficient for any consistent Latterday Saint to induce him to yield implicit obedience unto this word. I can think of no gospel subject that will apply directly to more people among us as Latter-day Saints than this Word of Wisdom, unless it may be the principle of obedience, which includes yielding obedience unto this word; or repentance, which also includes turning away from these things which are forbidden, and obeying the will of the Lord (Conference Report, October 1908, pp. 87-88). Elder John A. Widtsoe ccmments upon this subject by asking this question:... But if a law is given by revelation showing the order and will of God should it not be more binding than a command because it calls for man's understanding cooperation? (Joseph Smith, page 199). If a Latter-day Saint believes that his non-observance of the Word of Wisdom is justified because of the words "'not by commandment or _ constraint," it would seem to put it in a category of the slothful who will lose his reward. Here is what the Lord said in 1831: For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward. But he that doeth not anything until he is commanded, and receiveth a commandment with doubtful heart, and keepeth it with slothfulness, the same is damned (D&C 58:28-29). In view f the for going CTipHow an we hop have faith, to la ures, is the difference down 7 ur lives, ho we claim to bot i the « 1" dt hi © willing do go, While oy, lives and ween the his Od to - actions, every day, Show to Our neigh children and 0. Mandment''? FS and to the Ord that w, re not € Same NE who gave Section Willing to d ourselves of the use oO 89 said this in th €rmon on the Strong dr k or t ©CO—those thing ount: Which are forbidd Of the Ord? Let; US be co Sistent ith Ourselves and ur Professions faith (C nferenc Not every o that Saith unto Mme, °? Ord, Lor » Shall enter into the king. Rep are, October 1908, Page 8 ) om of ©aven; but he hat doeth the Is jt Possible to love the d will of MY Fathe Which igs Mm heaven With ] he rts, with ll o r Perfection Is the 80al of the commanded, and not follow him Latter-day Saint. (3 Nephi 12e ag 4a true discip]e? (D&C 09:5.) 48.) Sometimes it is Maintained Elder Mark Petersen Of the that one Cannot be Perfect in this Counci] Of the Twelve, in a comMany times, there are areas of Mandment, Wrote: &0spe] living in Which one can be We have our decisions to make each Perfect. ( Lesson 38, Relief Sociday. We may be halfhearteg Latter. Ety Magazine, December 1961.) day Saints; "we may be part titheElder George F Richards conPayers, Part observers of the Word of y L of ¢;. Isdom, Part €epers e Sabbath tinued his Temarks quoted preday, part Supporters of the leaders viously In this Manner: and Program, of the Church. But that is not the Way the °rd would like it Our onward March towards The decisi N Wwe s ke in our Perfection will not leave the first Own best Nterest Is that d our the Church, we, the teachers, are forget Cur selfish interests, "for he Placed for the express Purpose of that loseth his life for my Sake, Shall bringing the People up to a knowledge find +" (Your Faith and You, Page » Showin Way unto Perfection I desire to say. > - here that we never can Teach perfec. The tr ue disciple Of the Master tion Until we Yield Obedience unto is known aS one Who follows him disciples, but We are asked by the _— Salvation is an individual] OpOrd to abstain from the use of Strong eration. [ am the Only Person that I I S h DECEMBER 1965 plicit obedience and submission to its great Author throughout my life, and to those whom He shall appoint to instruct me; in rejecting it, I follow the dictates of my own will in preference to the will of my Creator (Journal of Discourses 1:312). In order that none might say that he or she is excluded from the necessity of doing the will of the Lord, the Word of Wisdom was given for the "temporal salvation of all saints in the last days" (D&C 89:2). The leadership of the Church has counseled the members in all kinds of activities relating to their daily lives. The gospel is not to be lived only one day of the week. (Ibid., 59:11.) The Word of Wisdom, tithing, fast — offerings, the Welfare Plan—all of these—may be considered as directly affecting our temporal welfare because they pertain to activities which are a part of our earth-labors or which relate to physical salvation. The true significance of temporal salvation was made known early in this dispensation. In essence it is: the temporal welfare of the saint is vital to his spiritual salvation. Actually, there is no difference between the temporal and spiritual laws of God. (Ibid., 29:34- 35.) This sublime truth led President Joseph F. Smith to say: You must continue to bear in mind that the temporal and the spiritual are blended. They are not separate. One cannot be carried on without the other, so long as we are here in mortality. WORD OF WISDOM AND SPIRITUALITY In harmony with the forgoing information, other ''prophets, seers and revelators"' of this dispensation have voiced the truth 940 that the Word of Wisdom is spiritual. Some ways in which obedience is good and disobedience to this spiritual law brings harmful effects were given by President Stephen L Richards, as follows: Every commandment of God is spiritual in nature. There are no carnal commandments. We have learned this from modern revelation. While the commandments have effect upon the body and temporal things they are all in essence spiritual. The Word of Wisdom is spiritual. It is true that it enjoins the use of deleterious substances and makes provision for the health of the body. But the largest measure of good derived from its observance is in increased faith and the development of more spiritual power and wisdom. Likewise, the most regrettable and damaging effects of its infractions are spiritual, also. Injury to the body may be comparatively trivial to the damage to the soul in the destruction of faith and the retardation of spiritual growth. So I say, every commandment involves a spiritual growth. So I say, every commandment involves a spiritual principle (Conference Report, April 1949, page 141). For those who think of the Word of Wisdom as being a dietary law which promotes good health, and that its spiritual effects do not count as a requisite to eternal life, the foregoing thoughts certainly suggest otherwise. In addition, President Heber J. Grant pointed out that the observer of this law will find increased knowledge, as promised in verse 19 of Section 89: No man who breaks the Word of Wisdom can gain the same amount of knowledge and _ intelligence in this world as the man who obeys that law. I don't care who he is or where he comes from, his mind will not be as clear, and he cannot advance as far and as rapidly and retain his power as much as he would if he obeyed the Word of Wisdom. (Conference Report, April 1925, page 10). WORD OF WISDOM A COMMANDMENT As early as September 9, 1851, President Brigham Young before a conference of the Church put a motion to the congregation that they discontinue the use of tea, coffee, tobacco, and whiskey. The motion was carried unanimously. (Millennial Star 14:35.) In the August 1867 conference, President Young referred to the last conference "when the Lord told him by the Holy Spirit to call upon the saints to observe the Word of Wisdom, and that they who did not observe it would increase in the spirit of the world and become darkened in mind. (Journal of Discourses 12:117.) President George A. Smith, in 1871, said that a person loses the Spirit and grows cold in his religion when he does not keep the Word of Wisdom. (Ibid., 14:212.) In the October 1880 general conference the membership unanimously voted to acept the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants as binding upon the Church. The First Presidency composed of President Heber J. Grant, J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and David O. McKay, in the October conference 1942, said: "|.. We reinvoke obedience to God's law of health given us by God Himself.... We urge the Saints to quit trifling with this law and so to live it that we may claim its promises (Improvement Era, Nov. 1942, page 687). The Word of Wisdom is a commandment! WHAT OF THE FUTURE? "Who's on the Lord's Side, Who?" The answer to this quesLESSON DEPARTMENT tion is left with the individual. As pointed out earlier, the disciple of the Lord will keep his commandments and ever work for the cause of Zion. As to the individual, the Lord has held out eternal life for the faithful. But what of the Church which is composed of individuals? Definite obgjectives or goals have been presented by the Lord.... Arise and shine forth, that thy light may be a standard for the nations (D&C 115:5).... That the church may stand independent above all other creatures beneath the celestial world (Jbid., 78:14). When the Saints were driven from Jackson County, Missouri, the Lord declared that this was due, in part, to the transgressions of the people—speaking of the Church and not of individuals— and they were not united as required by the law of the celestial kingdom. In order to realize the grand objective of establishing Zion on the American continent, as commanded, it was necessary that this be done through living the law. (Ibid., 105:1-5.) The keeping of the commandments, including the Word of Wisdom, will bring sanctification to the Church and exaltation to the individual. QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. Under what circumstances was the Word of Wisdom given? 2. Give several reasons why "the order and will of the Lord" requires obedience to that will by the members of the Church. 3. In what way is the observance of the Word of Wisdom related to the goal of perfection? 4. Name some ways in which observance of the Word of Wisdom brings spiritual benefits. How does individual obedience to the Word of Wisdom affect the Church? On 941 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants itt ij Christine H. Robinson Message 70—''Cease to Find Fault One With Another' (D&C 88:124). For First Meeting, March 1966 Objective: To emphasize the importance of building and uplifting others by focusing attention upon their good qualities. @ One of the most noble accomplishments in this world is to exercise a constructive, uplifting influence upon others. To touch a soul and to encourage that soul to reach for loftier heights is far more important than to build monuments of stone or steel. No one of us is without influence. All of us touch the lives of those about us for good or for ill. If we concentrate upon and emphasize the good qualities that another possesses, we not only enlarge and ennoble our own character, but we help another to live upward and outward and to develop the best that is within her. On the other hand, if we seek to find fault we soon find that our own personalities become warped. Our criticism, moreover, has a down-grading effect upon the person with whom we have found fault. 942 In speaking of faultfinding, President McKay has said that each of us should perform his duty honestly and conscientiously. We should not interfere with another who is doing something in a different way. When we spend our time finding fault with others, we neglect our own responsibilities and our souls become embittered, our minds distorted, our judgments faulty, and our spirits depressed. (Pathways to Happiness, page 86.) That is why the Lord has commanded us to "Cease to find fault one with another." That is why the wise Solomon, in describing seven things that the Lord hates, pointed out that five of the seven are directly connected with faultfinding. Solomon listed these as, " a lying tongue... An heart that deviseth wicked imaginations, feet that be swift in runCe — ning to mischief, A false witness that speaketh lies, and he that soweth discord among brethren" (Proverbs 6:17-19). Our Father in heaven has placed great emphasis on the value of a soul. He knows the potential that lies within us. He knows, as his sons and daughters, we may become perfect, even as he is perfect, if we concentrate on and magnify the fine qualities that each of us possesses. To do this, we should form the habit of looking only for the good qualities in those with whom we associate, rather than seeing all their faults. It is easy for us to slip into the error of faultfinding. Often in attempting to cover up our own weaknesses, we may try to justify or rationalize them by looking for the same faults in others. This thought is expressed in the anonymous poem which has become a Latter-day Saint hymn: Let each man learn to know himself; To gain that knowledge let him labor, Improve those failings in himself Which he condemns so in his neighbor. How lenient our own faults we view, And conscience's voice adeptly smother, Yet, oh, how harshly we review The selfsame failings in another! Example sheds a genial ray Of light which men are apt to borrow, So first improve yourself today And then improve your friends tomorrow. (Hymns, Church of Jesus-Christ of Latter-day Saints, page 91) The story is told about a church edifice in Germany which LESSON DEPARTMENT is famous for its beautiful stainedglass windows. These windows, when viewed with the clear rays of the sun shining through them, are marvelous indeed. Many people are touched by their beauty. Yet, many other visitors who do not take the time to look at the windows from the right angle, or who see them on a dark and foggy day, are disillusioned and dissatisfied. They see nothing to admire. And only find fault with the church building. So it is with many of us. In evaluating our friends' and neighbors' personalities and characters, we fail to view their accomplishments in the sunlight and glow of charity. We do not take the time and patience to look into their hearts. We let our vision of them become clouded and dimmed through misunderstanding. Let us "'cease to find fault one with another" and look only for the good in others. Let us realize that often the mistakes of another might have been our own had we been influenced by similar circumstances. Let us oft speak kind words to and of each other. Let us seek to build up one another, to give encouragement and _ appreciation when it is due. Let us always remember the words of the Lord when he said, '"'Give, and it shall be given unto you; good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and running over... For with the same measure that ye mete withal it shall be measured to you again" (Luke 6:38). 943 Hazel S. Cannon (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Cleanliness Is Next to Godliness For Second Meeting, March 1966 Objective: To show that cleanliness js the foundation in building a lovely Physical environment for the family. Specific help on different cleaning Schedules will be presented in the next lesson, which will be a continuation of "Cleanliness Is Next to Godliness,."' INTRODUCTION ber optimal health and happiness, Is there anything more SatisfyEvery Latter-day Saint homeing than a clean house—sparkmaker should strive to set a ling windows, immaculately clean standard of cleanliness of which corners and baseboards, fresh, she can be proud—a_ standard -weet-smelling beds, and beauti. Which says, I love my home. I ful clean floors? Cleanliness can want my children to remember be achieved only through effec. A house that shines." tive planning, know-how, and The homemaker _ Should aswork. Sume the initiative In determinRegard housework as a priving the standard she feels is lege and a creative experience. Consistent _with her particular Look upon the skills of cleaning family. This will be affected by a house not as goals in themthe Individual family Setup: (1) Selves, but as a means to securfamily members — the number, ing comfort, beauty, and happy ages, their health, Interests, acrelationships in the home. Livities, and how they share SET YOUR STANDARD size and condition of the house; A standard is your rule for (3) the season of the year and measurement of cleanliness, and climate; and (4) the efficiency has to do chiefly with the result Of cleaning ©quipment, materials, you wish to obtain. It goes with. And methods used. Out saying that the quality of housekeeping done in the home cleaning standard should insure each family memfamily: Father who is ward clerk: mother who is ward Relief Society work meeting leader and community leader; John who is seventeen, plays basketball for his high school, works in a grocery store on Saturday doing odd jobs, and assists with the Boy Scout troop; Annette who is fifteen, plays in the school orchestra, has lots of school activities, and teaches Primary; David who is twelve, all boy, and is trying to advance as fast as he can in the Boy Scout program; and Mary who is six, loves pets, and is in first grade. All are healthy and have agreed to share the cleaning of the house. The house, an older home, is modest but adequate with the average-sized kitchen, small dining room, a living room, three bedrooms, and a bath. It has an unfinished basement. The house is in good condition but needs redecorating. The season is late winter or early spring in a temperate climate. The tank-type vacuum cleaner is fairly new; the other equipment is in average condition but of rather poor quality. The mother doesn't seem to find time to try new methods of cleaning. (Limit discussion to no more than four minutes.) PLAN YOUR WORK WORK YOUR PLAN A busy mother who maintained a clean, sparkling home and yet had time for her husband and family and who enriched her life with Church activities and some civic responsibilities confided, "Housekeeping by the inch is a cinch, but housekeeping by the ward is hard.''* A regular work plan or schedule will avoid many hours of laborious cleaning. The kitchen range is a case in point. Quick cleaning each day, wiping up spills carefully as they occur, and weekly attention will avoid hours of tedious scouring and cleaning after months of neglect. You may *Quoted by Dr. Virginia F. Cutler at Utah State Home Economics Association Convention, Salt Lake City, Utah, April 1956. LESSON DEPARTMENT not always be able to adhere to a schedule (and it is vital that it possess flexibility), but make one and write it down on paper or on a bulletin board where you can consult it each day. It will help you to think more clearly and find better solutions to problems. Following a schedule leads to establishing proper habits; it eliminates frustrating little decisions which must be made constantly. In making your plan be certain that it is family-centered. Remember, you can be master of the situation. You have the schedule; the schedule should not have you! In determining your plans carefully consider: (1) What needs to be cleaned, (2) how often it needs to be cleaned, (3) how long it will take, and (4) the order which is best. Again, keep your' standard high and consider the conditions in your home. HINTS THAT HELP 1. Creative management and teaching are jobs of the homemaker. How can you get everyone in the act? Maintaining a shining home is the responsibility of each member of the family. How might the counseling period of the Family Home Evening be used to discuss cleaning problems in the home? 2. Alternate light and heavy work, jobs that are fun and jobs that are tedious. 3. Study your working ways; try to improve them. 4. Buy articles and _ furnishings with upkeep and cleaning in mind. 5. Clean up and put away tools and equipment as you go. SUMMARY The Lord said, '"'And let all things be done in cleanliness before me" (D&C 42:41). In what ways can a clean, neat house make for greater 945 DECEMBER 1965 spirituality in the home? Be an imaginative and creative housekeeper. Think ahead, study, and work—if the schedule fails, try again. Devise better ways of polishing the silver, of splashing in the dishpan, of making your hooked rug a vision of beauty. Build a lovely physical environment; it will inspire your family; it will be self-fulfillment for you, the keeper of the house. TO DO AND THINK ABOUT: Challenge each sister carefully to evaluate her own work schedule. Challenge her to attempt to remedy one or two cleaning problems during the coming month. SOCIAL SCIENCE—Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 3 (No. 15 in series)—Personal Standards For Third Meeting, March 1966 Objective: To point out the importance of personal standards LESSON 14 FOLLOW-UP The Home Doing suggestion concluding lesson 14 was the rereading of the lesson or, if available, the reading of the 1966 Melchizedek Priesthood lessons 1, 2, 3, and 4. Several expressions from the class members as to points clarified by this reading might be 'helpful to all class members. INTRODUCTION This lesson deals with personal standards and must, of necessity, be self-analyzing. It aims to call our collective attention to the need and the value of an individual review of one's personal standards as they relate to the 946 in the development of character. Principles of the gospel, and to the development of one's character, which we may say is the total result of one's beliefs, attitudes, and actions. THE SELF-IMAGE Although all may not be aware of the fact, each of us possesses, within the realm of the conscious or subconscious mind, a selfimage. This is the image of the person we believe that we are or would like to be; the person we hope others recognize us to) be. An early and obvious manifes-' tation of this image is that of the small child who makes be; lieve he is a policeman, an In- dian, a parent, or perhaps a friend. He may identify so closely with the object of his admiration as to follow closely even specific mannerisms. Years of experience, however, may and should discipline an individual to a self-image more in harmony with the realities of his particular life. It is a fact, nevertheless, that a_ self-image persists and is influenced by the principles in which a person believes and by the standard of performance which his beliefs dictate. With this idea in mind, how important is the self-image in motivating or restraining our actions? Often we hear such comments as the following: 1. I could never do such a thing. It just wouldn't be like me. 2. I couldn't do that. If I did, I would not be able to live with myself. 3. I do this service because I believe in its purpose and value. The principle involved is warp and woof of my very being. Do not such comments indicate how important is the standard of values we incorporate in our self-image? Let us not become discouraged in striving to attain the ideal self-image. HOW WOULD YOU ACT? Analyze the following situation and, in keeping with your own personal standard, indicate with a check what you would do. If a person whom you know is being gossiped about, would you: A. Listen quietly without comment, although you know that some of the statements are untrue? B. Add further to the gossip? C. Check the trend of disparaging conversation by relating something good about the person? LESSON DEPARTMENT THE BASIC VALUES Personal standards of Christian living must be based upon the commandments of the Lord. They are both source and definition. When questioned by the Pharisee lawyer as to the "great commandment in the law," Jesus answered: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as_ thyself (Matt. 22:37-39). The Articles of Faith enumerate many specific truths which Latter-day Saints also believe and accept. From the Thirteenth Article we have the following: "We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men." How do we rate, individually, in our attitude and belief relative to these personal virtues? Let us consider the virtue of personal honesty. Honesty, no doubt, is a personal virtue included in the moral standard of all of us. How honest, however, are we? How consistent is our performance? In business? In our social life? In our homes? EXAMPLE STORY Robert, age eleven, brings from his friend's home a puzzle game which he says he is quite sure his friend does not wish to keep. His mother explains that unless the game has actually been given to him it is not his to keep. She insists that Robert return the game, which he does. The mother is now satisfied that 947 DECEMBER 1965 her young son understands the meaning of honesty. Some time later Robert announces that he has been asked to give a two-and-one-half-minute talk on the subject, "'I Believe in Being Honest." The mother becomes excited with the thought of her son fulfilling this important assignment. She impresses upon him the need to speak clearly and to be neatly dressed, and asks him what he is going to say. "T don't know," Robert answers. "Why don't you write it for me?" Here is a crucial point relative to honesty in this illustrative story. There are alternatives of action which the mother might take: 1. If Robert is mature enough to prepare his talk without assistance, the mother should encourage him to do so. She might, of course, wish to hear the talk before it is given, which would give her an opportunity to see that Robert has the proper understanding of honesty and to clarify any points that may need clarification. 2. If Robert definitely needs his mother's assistance in preparing his talk, she might tell him that the story of his own experience or ideas about being honest, told in his own words, would be helpful to other children who are also learning about honesty. She might add that she will help him if he needs her to do so. She might also remind him that since the title of his talk is "I Believe in _ Being Honest," it should express his own thoughts about honesty. This _ procedure might help him to recall her recent teaching as to honesty and thus reinforce that teaching. How developing it would be for Robert, thus assisted, to say, "My talk today is called 'I Believe in Being Honest.' My mother is helping me to understand 948 what it means to be honest and why it is important that everyone be honest. She helped me prepare my talk." For Robert, how developing this would be, and for the audience, how refreshing! What is the difference between a mother writing a talk for her child and the child preparing his own talk with the mother's guidance? THEY SAY AND DO NOT How important is it that we live what we believe—that we are true to the personal standard we set for ourselves? This above all: to thine own self be true, And it must follow, as the night the day, Thou can'st not then be false to any man. There is wisdom in these lines by William Shakespeare. There is, however, no statement in all literature comparable to the Savior's denunciation of those who were false to their professed beliefs. Speaking of the lawgivers—the learned religious leaders of his time—he said: | The scribes and the Pharisees sit in Moses' seat: All therefore whatsoever they bid you observe, that observe and do; but do not ye after their works: for they say, and do not (Matt. 23:2, 3). Specific hypocrisies are then listed:... They bind heavy burdens and grievous to be borne,... But they themselves will not move them with one of their fingers.... Their works they do for to be seen of men.... Love the uppermost room at feasts, and the chief seats in the synagogues. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For ye devour widows' houses, and for a_ pretence make long prayer.... Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For ye pay tithe of mint and anise and cummin, and have omitted the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith. Ye blind guides, which strain at a gnat, and swallow a camel (Matt. 23:4-6, 14, 23-24). Are not these words of the Savior as relevant today as when uttered nearly 2,000 years ago? Are we not all guilty, to some degree, of being pretenders to virtues which we really do not possess? Do we not strain at a gnat and swallow a camel? (Enlarge upon small imperfections and ignore a more serious problem?) Do we follow the letter of the law—paying "tithe of mint and anise and cummin" and omit the weightier matters of the law? (Failing to use mercy and faith in our judgment of one another?) We often may forget that when we fail to live as we profess. To live, we may weaken, even destroy, the faith of others. Mothers may nullify the positive value of their teachings by failing to live according to their expressed beliefs. What might result from such statements as the following: 1. Mother to daughter: "Go to the door, dear, and say I'm not at home." 2. Mother to son: "Why don't you step on the gas? There is no policeman in sight." Jesus forgave the humble and repentant sinner. He paid tribute to Nathanael in these words, "Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile!" (no deceit) (John 1:47). But he spoke with scorn of those who did not live LESSON DEPARTMENT the moral principles to which they claimed belief. THE STATIONARY STANDARD VERSUS THE GROWING STANDARD We grow in wisdom through our experiences and as our understanding of temporal and spiritual laws enlarges. How should this affect our personal standards? (Suggestion: Our standards of belief and what we expect of ourselves by way of performance should rise. Do they always do so?) Note and discuss the following comments which illustrate, by way of contrast, both the stationary and the growing personal standard: 1. I seem to act at times as if I were still a young girl. Why don't I grow up? 2. The experiences of the past year should have made me more generous with other people. But apparently they have not. 3. I once thought that I would never bear my testimony before a group. I didn't think it mattered and I, also, was too timid. But I have seen women grow in ability to express themselves through repeatedly bearing their testimonies. My point of view has changed. I have received many blessings and I am bearing my testimony today to acknowledge the blessings of my Heavenly Father, and I shall do so again. What has happened to the following person's personal standards? 4. Now that I am a member of the Church my ideas regarding personal behavior have changed. It is as if I had suddenly developed a new conscience. I am no longer satisfied with my former performance. FOR HOME DOING Personal Check List 1. Check the qualities listed below which you honestly believe apply to you. 949 DECEMBER 1965 2. Underline the qualities which you think may be in your self-image without ample justification, because - you wish they were. 3. Try in even one single area, to lessen the gap between standard of belief and performance. I envision myself as being: honest humble obedient jealous thrifty conservative resourceful timid appreciative creative a worrier generous with others sound in making judgments blessed with leadership ability (name others) FOR DISCUSSION The questions that appear in the lesson, plus these three: 1. Do we frequently acknowledge and commend specific talents of only those from whom we may expect to receive favors? 2. Why is it easy to overrate one's ability and virtues? 3. Is it easy to depreciate one's personal abilities? IN CONCLUSION We frequently quote the familiar statement "No man is an island. No man stands alone," for we know that we influence others for good or ill, and, likewise, we are influenced by the attitude, words, and actions of others. It is true, however, that to the extent that each individual will be held responsible for his own life, each does stand alone. Likewise, we are blessed by our own individual worthy thoughts and actions, and not by the virtues of friend or neighbor, however close the association may be. The Latter-day Saint mother will want to consider this fact as she reviews her own personal standards and as she teaches her children in the home. (See D&C 68:25-28.) She will want them to understand how important it is for each one to build worthy ideals, as a basis of the personal standard, and she will want them to realize that to achieve an inner peace one must live in harmony with that standard. For Nancy After a Day Together Vesta N. Fairbairn A friend is forever. As precious as fine-cut crystal, Beautiful as clustered jade grapes and vined /eaves, Rich as color—cerise and pink, lavender, blue, and green— Delicate as translucent shells, Lovely as petals—azalea, orchid, rose— Refreshing as mountain spring water, Sustaining as the living rock, Warm as firelight and flame, And more to be cherished. A friend is forever. 950 LITERATURE — The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Dr. Bruce B. Clark Lesson 13—The Place of Suffering in Life—Part II (Text: Out of the Best Books, pp. 372-379, 386-396, and 405-419) For Fourth Meeting, March 1966 Objective: To show how hardship and suffering can strengthen character @ The lesson for this month is a continuation of last month's lesson, concerned with the nature of grief and with man's resources in time of suffering, but focusing, more particularly, on the fact that sorrow and hardship are largely what we make them. If we let ourselves be weak and short-sighted, they can destroy faith and corrode character; but if we react with understanding, remembering God's eternal plan for mankind, they can build faith and strengthen character. Four selections are covered by this lesson: two short stories (Mansfield's "The Fly" and Gorky's '"Boless''), one short poem (Hopkins's "Thou Art Indeed Just, Lord''), and one longer poem (Wordsworth's "'Michael''). The literature leader may wish to cover all four selections, or may prefer to concentrate on only one or two or three of the four. A valuable hour could, for example, be spent studying "Michael" alone. Each leader may choose the selections she feels she can if we respond to them maturely. Teach most effectively for her group. To bring the problem covered by this lesson sharply into focus, I recall an incident still vivid in my memory that occurred in 1944, over twenty years ago. A neighbor who was a prominent leader in the valley where I was living, stood up in fast and testimony meeting one Sunday to say he had no fear for his handsome young son, who was on his way overseas to participate in the World War II invasion of Europe. "He has always been a good son," said the man, "honest and clean and Church-active. He has just returned from an honorable mission and has been through the temple. I know the Lord will protect him and bring him back to us." Three weeks later the son was dead, killed in mid-air in a paratroop invasion before he even had time to: set foot on French soil. And the father became a bitter, beaten man! So grief-stricken was he, so shattered in his faith, that he felt the Lord had totally deserted 95) DECEMBER 1965 him and all the world was against him. Moreover, he never recovered from the shock. He withdrew from Church activity, became sullen and brooding in attitude, and died a few years later, still overwhelmed and embittered by the grief he could not comprehend. Such deaths do occur, and we need to be prepared to accept them without collapse of faith and character, even when, in our limited mortal vision, we may not fully understand them. "Thou Art Indeed Just, Lord'' As explored more fully on pages 394-396 of the text, the problem exposed by this incident and by Gerard Manley Hopkins's poem "Thou Art Indeed Just, Lord" should not be ignored. While it may be generally true that righteous people prosper in business and health, all of us also know that sometimes righteous people suffer all manner of earthly hardships and calamities. Business disaster sometimes overtakes the faithful, and the ravages of disease, plus the shock of sudden accidents, cut down saint as well as sinner, and sometimes in the vigor of youth as well as in the feebleness of age. Clean living is not a guarantee that one will never have problems, nor should we expect this. The very purpose of life is to strengthen character through meeting challenges. Moreover, life is everlasting, and the sufferings of mortality are not the same when viewed from the vantage-point of immortality. The rewards of righteous living are ultimately spiritual, not material. Righteousness will not guarantee man against tribulation, but it will fortify his spirit to meet whatever tribulations life 952 offers and to mature his character for the responsibilities of the eternal future. The great reward of righteous living, available to all, is not material prosperity and freedom from hardship, but spiritual peace of mind and the serenity that comes with a free conscience and a testimony of the truth. 'The Fly" "The Fly" by Katherine Mansfield is included in the text (see pp. 372-379) and in this month's lesson principally as a powerful, dramatic little story portraying a man who has an unhealthy reaction to grief. Instead of accepting the death of his son and adjusting to it with the passing of years, the man nurses his sorrow to keep it painfully alive so that the grief that once was genuine turns into sentimental self-pity. We, of course, admire a person who loves so deeply that the memory of a beloved one remains strong long after death has taken the one beloved. We can hardly admire the person, however, who wallows in self-pity and enjoys feeling sorry for himself as the old man in "The Fly" does. If the literature leader chooses to teach this story, she should turn to Out. Of the Best Books, where it is printed in full with a detailed discussion. "'Boless" "Boless" by the great Russion author Maxim Gorky is also included in this month's lesson. Here our interest centers on the contrast between the huge, homely Polish woman Teresa and the smug, callous, preachy Pan Student. We are touched by the pathetic story of Teresa, that "mastadon in petticoats," because we are reminded that large and homely women have hearts just as tender, desires for love just as intense, loneliness just as deep, and capacity for companionship just as great as do dainty and pretty women. We are annoyed by the insensitivity, the bored callousness of Pan Student, who talks about the need for sympathy and understanding, but lacks genuine sympathy and understanding. Again, the literature leader who chooses to teach this story will find it with a full discussion on pages 386-393 of the text. '"'Michael'"' Because it is more easily available to readers who may not have a copy of the Relief Society literature text, William Wordsworth's great narrative poem "Michael" is given central discussion in this month's lesson. The poem is so famous that it can be found in almost any volume of Wordsworth's poems or of English romantic literature in almost any library. And it is included in full with a detailed discussion on pages 405-419 of Out of the Best Books. Most readers and critics agree that "Michael" is Wordsworth's greatest narrative poem and one of the finest short narrative poems of the world's literature. Also, it is an impressive study of the nature of suffering in human experience. Written in stately, dignified, even majestic blank verse, it tells a simple story but also a beautiful and powerful story. Indeed, so impressive is its simple tragic power for most readers that, once fully experienced, it will remain in the memLESSON DEPARTMENT ory forever, like an incident out of the Old Testament. "Michael" opens with a thirtynine-line introduction which sets the dignified, reverent tone of the poem and in which Wordsworth explains why he is writing it: that in a remote mountain valley which as a boy he knew, there is a "staggering heap of unhewn stones" around which centers an old and moving legend which he wishes to retell "for the delight of a few natural hearts." He then goes on to tell the story of the old shepherd Michael. Listen to the words of the poem: Upon the forest-side in Grasmere Vale There dwelt a Shepherd, Michael was his name; An old man, stout of heart, and strong of limb. His bodily frame had been from youth to age Of an unusual strength: his mind was keen, Intense, and frugal, apt for all affairs, And in his shepherd's calling he was prompt And watchful more than ordinary men. Hence had he learned the meaning of all winds, Of blasts of every tone; and, oftentimes, When others heeded not, he heard the South Make subterraneous music, like the noise Of bagpipes on distant Highland hills. In every way Michael was noble and gocd, and, like Abraham of old, ne was blessed in his old age with a son named Luke, whom he loved deeply and with whom he formed a beautiful, gentle, profound companionship. But soon as Luke, full ten years old, could stand Against the mountain blasts; and to the heights, Not fearing toil, nor length of weary ways, 3 DECEMBER 1965 He with his Father daily went, and they Were as companions, why should I relate That objects which the Shepherd loved before Were dearer now? That from the Boy there came Feelings and emanations—things which were Light to the sun and music to the wind; And that the old Man's heart seemed born again? When the son was eighteen, and Michael eighty-four, financial difficulties pressed upon the family in the form of a "debt of honor." Long before the time Of which I speak, the Shepherd had been bound In surety for his brother's son, a man Of an industrious life, and ample means; But unforeseen misfortunes suddenly Had pressed upon him; and old Michael now Was summoned to discharge the forfeiture, A grievous penalty, but little less Than half his substance. After much discussion it was agreed that Luke should be sent to work for a distant kinsman to relieve the financial stress. Deciding to send him away was most difficult for Michael and his wife Isabel, for they loved the boy deeply. But their love for their land was equally great. And the only possibility for keeping the land as an inheritance for the son was to allow the son to be away for a few years, thus earning sufficient money to discharge the indebtedness and return to his parents and the land they all loved. So arrangements were made for his departure. But before the old father and the young son separated, Michael took Luke into the hills where 954 they laid the cornerstone of a sheepfold as a covenant of their faith in and devotion to each other. Michael assured Luke that at eighty-four he still was "strong and hale," and while Luke was gone he would use the pile of gathered stones to build the sheepfold and to do the other work now performed by the two together. He counseled his son: rT 3.. Lay now the cornerstone, As I requested; and hereafter, Luke, When thou art gone away, should evil men Be thy companions, think of me, my Son, And of this moment; hither turn thy thoughts, And God will strengthen thee: amid all fear And all temptation, Luke, I pray that thou May'st bear in mind the life thy Fathers lived, Who, being innocent, did for that cause Bestir them in good deeds. Now, fare thee well— When thou return'st, thou in this place wilt see A work which is not here: a covenant "Twill be between us; but, whatever fate Befall thee, I shall love thee to the last, And bear thy memory with me to the grave. —~—Then Michael and Luke separated. At first good reports came of the son, but months later Luke "began to slacken in his duty," and "in the dissolute city gave himself to evil courses: ignominy and shame fell on him, so that he was driven at last to seek a hiding-place beyond the seas." Old Michael was somewhat sustained in his grief by his deep love, for There is a comfort in the strength of love; "Twill make a thing endurable, which else Would overset the brain, or break the heart. But partly his love was, in very fact, responsible for his grief, for there is no grief more harsh than that of faith betrayed. Thus, bearing the burden of his sorrow, Michael went about his daily work suffering in silence, often sitting in numb loneliness at the site of the unfinished sheepfold, anguishedly disappointed in his erring son, but still loving him, even as God must feel for his erring earth children. I have conversed with more than one who well Remember the old Man, and what he was Years after he had heard this heavy news. His bodily frame had been from youth to age Of an unusual strength. Among the rocks He went, and still looked up to sun and cloud, And listened to the wind; and, as before, Performed all kinds of labor for his sheep, And for the land, his small inheritance. And to that hollow dell from time to time Did he repair to build the Fold of which His flock had need. 'Tis not forgotten yet The pity which was then in every heart. For the old Man—and 'tis believed by all That many and many a day he thither went, And never lifted up a single stone. Now, says Wordsworth in the closing passage of the poem, many years have passed since Michael and his wife died. All that remains are the unhewn stones out of which the sheepfold was to be built—and the legend of the grand old man who bore his grief with such tragic dignity. It is a powerful and unforgetLESSON DEPARTMENT tably sad and beautiful story. In a way, although perhaps Wordsworth did not think of this, it is the Prodigal Son parable retold, but with the son not returning. Its ethical message is not only to parents who may suffer as Michael suffered, but also to children—and all of us are children—who may falter as Luke faltered, and who through the poem may be strengthened in our desire to fulfill the faith in us of those who love us. As one aspect of the story, note that old Michael becomes a greater, more heroic figure through his suffering. Suffering dignifies and deepens him. Someone has defined tragedy as the spectacle of a heroic figure suffering heroically. We admire as well as pity a character of tragic stature, even as Michael is. Wordsworth once said of himself, "A deep distress hath humanized my soul." Is there a kind of understanding, a largeness of the soul, which comes through personal suffering, and can come in no other way? Is there a majesty of the human spirit that becomes most clearly visible only in a moment of defeat and disaster? Thoughts and Questions for Discussion 1. What specific evidences are there in "The Fly" that the father's grief is unhealthy and self-pitying rather than healthy and mature? 2. What are the dangers, as suggested in "The Fly" and in Hopkins's poem "Thou Art Indeed Just, Lord," of placing too much expectation in material rewards for righteous living rather than in spiritual rewards? 3. What specific evidences are there in "Boless" that Pan Student is not as genuinely sympathetic and understanding as he pretends to be? 955 DECEMBER 1965 4. Discuss how the dignified blanksuffering with the shallowness of verse language and form of "Micthe old man's in "The Fly." hael" are appropriate for the story 6. What qualities make "Michael" a that is told. Great piece of literature? Does it 5. Contrast the dignity of Michael's have weaknesses? * Note: CORRECT NUMBERING OF LITERATURE LESSONS The lesson "Growth Through Experience,' which was printed in the October issue of the Magazine, should have been numbered 11; and the lesson "The Place of Suffering in Life'—Part I, printed in the November Magazine, should have been No. 12. Under the Surface Ruth House l HAvE told my husband many times, as I cleaned the boys' room, that it would be ideal to have a manhole in the middle of the room. Twice a week, I would open the manhole and hose down the room. That way, I need never worry about what was precious enough to save, or what I could discard. One morning after the boys had cleaned and picked up in their room (which I secretly call '"'The Jungle"), I put them to work at various jobs while I went in to sweep, and as I surveyed "The Jungle," that morning, I sighed. There were stray socks under the bed, a bag of marbles on the window sill, and as I moved the bed, papers fell from underneath. I discovered a secret hiding place under the mattress; note papers under the rug, and a rock collection scattered on the dresser among an old Weekly Reader and some old tickets, still "lucky" to a child. And then I saw a paper slid under the dresser scarf, with the corner sticking out. I pulled it out and saw a half-written letter, put under there for safekeeping until it could be finished. And I read, "Dear Mother, I love you. Thank you for all the things you do for me. I will try to be a good boy today so I can grow up to be a missionary." I sat down on the edge of the bed and dabbed my eyes with my apron. Never again will I call it "The Jungle'; never again wish for a manhole. I will look under the surface and see the beauty of their belongings, and, yes, under their dirty faces and patches, too. And perhaps I have been looking at my friends and neighbors in the wrong way, too. I'll look under the surface in my heart and my life, and you look under the surface at your home, and perhaps when we meet, we will all have more beauty in our hearts. 956 HAWAIIAN TOURS November 1965 February 1966 <—_> ROSE PARADE TOUR December 1965 <_ MEXICO Early Spring Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23rd East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 485-2444 — 262-2337 Shank You for your patronage and your fine friendship over the years We have ALL THE NEW HANDCRAFPFTS: Plastic Grapes and other Plastic Casting Supplies Feather Flowers Ribbon Flowers Satin Wrapped Fruit, etc. And ALL THE OLD FAVORITES: Mosaics Aluminum Trays Copper Tooling Basketry, etc. Send 25c for catolog and also receive our newest book "EGG CARTON PARTY FAVORS" Discounts to Groups ZIM'S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah w BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.55 Zone 6 90 Zone 3.60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4 65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5.80 a> DESERET PFREws PREsS UNDERSTANDING AND ENJOYING LITERATURE b Ernest L. Glien Assistant Professor of English Brigham Young University Four Lectures EDUCATION WEEKS 1965 Price $1.00 k * *& DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS Sections 88 through 92 by ROY W. DOXEY Associate Professor of Religion Brigham Young University Price $1.50 Available now from BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Extension Publications Provo, Utah 84601 _ EXTENSION PUBLICATIONS 1965 CATALOG sent on request 957 SAN FRANCISCO or LOS ANGELES TOURS 5 Days $57.00 November 24-28 MEXICO XMAS TOUR 18 Days $218.00 Dec. 17—Jan. 4 ROSE PARADE TOUR 8 Days via San Francisco $127.00 Dec. 17—Jan. 4 HAWAII FUN Jan. 11-23 13 Days $550.00 TRAVEL INSTITUTE 278 E. 9th South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 'Phone 328-4907 YOUTH TOURS ALSO AVAILABLE WISH ON THE MOON Bernice Ames Spill on my shoulder Nuggets of light, As you sail by, older And high tonight. Enchant the meadow To move as a sea, Shifting each shadow Of fence and tree, Till the field runs over With flowing gold, And ships cruise the clover, Jewels in their hold. Tomorrow the willow Will be just a tree; But tonight make it hollow, A galleon for me. ROSE PARADE TOURS via San Diego via San Francisco Dec. 26 to Jan. 2 Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 SINGING MOTHERS' CHORAL ARRANGEMENTS Abide with Me—Madsen -.20 Come, Come, Ye Saints—Madsen...20 Come Ye Blessed of My Father.20 Come Ye Blessed—Scott.25 Create in Me a Clean Heart 26 Eternal Life ee 26 Eye Hath Not Seen -..--2. 2 God of All Nature — 0 00..0-22.25 Incline Your Ear - -------- 25 Lord Bless Thee and Keep Thee.20 Lord, God of Our Fathers.- 26 Lord Is My Shepherd—Ryg.20 Lord's Prayer—Robertson 25 Peace | Leave with You.20 Prayer for Our Country -.-. 26 Voice in the Wilderness -.26 Gertiro Music Co 327 Broadway idaho Falls, idaho 83401 We can supply all the Music suggested for special numbers for the Theology, Social Science and Literature lessons. 958 Jumbo (12" x 151%') extra heavy ita COOKIE SHEET with FREE U and I Sugar Gingerbread Boy (or Girl) pattern, gingerbread and frosting recipes and colorful deteiee =f suggestions. U and | Sugar Cookie Sheet Offer P. O. Box "'A" - Seattle, Washington 98109 Check choice: ( 1 Jumbo 12 x 15%" Wear-ever cookie sheet and Gingerbread Boy Pattern. Enclose $1.00 and U & I label (J 2 Jumbo 12 x 15%" Wear-ever cookie sheets and Gingerbread Boy pattern, plus free nylon spatula (will not scratch aluminum). Enclose $2.00 and U & I label Name Please Print Street or RFD City State Zip Code Price subject to change without notice. Offer good only in U. S. A. (except where prohibited). Please allow three to four weeks for delivery. Offer expires Dec. 31, 1966. PLEASE SEND THIS FORM WITH YOUR ORDER. Our next vt party! With a beautiful tiered cake usin Most popular premium offer we've made repeated at your request. Pans in most wanted sizes, as shown. D Boy! You can dress up your next festive occasion these Muuis® PARTY CAKE PANS ever Four U and | Party Cake Pans P. O. Box 500, Manitowoc, Wisconsin Please send me the U and I Mirro Party Cake Pans. Enclose $1.00 and U & I label Street or RFD. City State Zip Code___ Offer expires December 31, 1966. Please allow three to four weeks for delivery. Price subject to change without notice. Offer good only in the U. S. A., and void in any territory where prohibited. Look for these offers on back of U and I Sugar "Special Offer" bags now at your grocers SSSCHSSSSSHeereeFeeesOseoeeeseseees 4 of, ff f i L 101 Mrs. Ann Crawford Jensen Mrs. Hannah Dudley Ellsworth Poole Brigham City, Utah Menan, Idaho Mrs. Dora Sanders Gambel 100 Mrs. Pauline B. Wale Chelsea, Oklahoma Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sarah Talbot Ellis Mrs. Sarah E. Burton Foulger Ogden, Utah Ogden, Utah Mrs. Jeanette Bennion Gerrard Salt Lake City, Utah 44 Mrs. Mary Hegsted Rawson Whittier, California; 9] Mrs. Florence McCune Lunt Mrs. Hannah Nyquist Honolulu,. Hawaii Weiser, Idaho Mrs. Anna J. Thomas Salt Lake City, Utah. Annie M. Rob Smith 98 ae Lake City obit Mrs. Susan Parker Bues Hooper, Utah Mrs. Edith McLelland Gamble Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Annie Astle Reiche Alameda, California Mrs. Louisa Rappleye Hunter Nelson Ferron, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Thomas Shaw Los Angeles, California Mrs. Ellen Morris Marriott Ogden, Utah 90 Mrs. Jane Prestwich Simpson Salt Lake City, Utah 8 Mrs. Laura Benson Wray Hyrum, Utah Mrs. Ollie T. Nibley Honolulu, Hawaii Mrs. Olive Draper Anderson Mrs. Bertha Kohler Chantry Ve Nephi, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Amy Baker 45 Mrs. Mary F. Sproul Jolley Minersville, Utah Washington, Utah Mrs. Rose Ellen Bywater Valentine Salt Lake City, Utah 93 Mrs. Mary Ann Hyde Mortensen Miss Clay Allred Ogden, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Margaret Wilcox Brems 9? Mrs. Rose Dorton Varney Lehi, Utah American Fork, Utah Mrs. Ella Leonora Bu i Mrs. Sarah Foss Elliott Sait Take City, eal tler Bingham Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Barbara Ellen Merrill Hawke Annis, Idaho Mrs. Elizabeth Jones Ashby Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Sarah Burr Coleman Mrs. Emily Jane Whimpey Evans Teasdale, Utah Pleasant Grove, Utah Mrs. Anna Ball Frewin Mrs. Selma Klintenbury Hennings Salt Lake City, Utah American Fork, Utah 960 ESSENTIAL READING FOR aCe LDS WIFE AND MOTHER OF FOOD AND THOUGHT by Florence B. Pinnock Not just a cook book-not just a homecraft text. Every Latter-day Saint woman will find inspiration for her daily activities in feeding her family and nourishing their spirits. Divided into monthly segments for year-through reading. An ideal gift. $3.95 OUR MORAL CHALLENGE by Mark E. Petersen An apostle of the Lord speaks to youth about their "growing pains''in straightforward language that has impact and meaning. Perfect gift for your children or for your own reference. $2.95 THIS AGE OF CONFUSION by Alvin R. Dyer An invaluable guide to those who would know of the problems and confusion that beset those churches of the world that have not accepted the teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith. This book will strengthen your testimony by clearly revealing the "concrete" foundation of our faith. $3.50 i csevet Book (Satya eesage, COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah g4119 Phone 328-8191 e@eeeeoeee#eoeneoeeese Enclosed find$, in check/money order/cash/ Or bill. Me, I have an account. Iwish books 1. 2. 3. (circle): Le Me. Ie aon < Sir, gL. Te Weiwk ty.) cil Aine aN RNIN Me a a tani kil trax WP viet Wiest» & signs gelae < eee he eeel ane ae4 ee Residents of Utah, please add 32% sales tax. RS DEC 65 Residents of California, please add 4% sales tax when ordering through California store.