
The IRCGIief Society Magazine, Volume 52 «Number 5 - see VE A Dorothy J. Roberts | am weary of woods without you there, Of rivers winding in their greenery. Flowers pall and all the lavish wiles Of the piquant, ever-changing sea Are drained of their enchantment When they stand in solitude Without your eyes to look in awe, with mine, Without your words' enticing interlude. Without you | have no more need To take the fern-lined trail Nor follow sunset to the sea: Without you, want and longing fail. Without you montaged on a scene, My eyes behold but do not see. Your wonder opened wide the world, And gave it, shining, back to me. The Cover: Spring in Millcreek Canyon, Utah Transparency by L. Paul Roberts Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: View of Tomorrow, by L. Paul Roberts Art Layout: Dick Scopes illustrations: Mary Scopes | surely enjoy the Magazine. The colored pictures are beautiful. 1 just received the March issue with all those lovely pictures of England. My grandson is on a mission there. Meadow Street in Preston, England, is so beautiful, where my wonderful grandson is. All of England is beautiful, with its rolling green hills—what a wonderful place to be. The article ''The Lord Is My Strength,'' by Sister Winniefred Manwaring was just what! Needed today. Gladys Rudd Salt Lake City, Utah | just received my March Magazine. It is a beautiful copy and interesting because both Grandfather Turner and Grandmother came from England. The pictures are very beautiful. Lula Kelley Prescott, Arizona Thank you for the lovely gesture of making the birthday column possible —showing that more and more of our elderly sisters are enjoying seeing their names in print for their natal day. It is good to know that so many sisters are living to a wonderful, useful old age. Vera Pettit Layton, Utah | was overjoyed today. Coming home from Relief Society meeting, | picked up the beautiful March Magazine, and was much interested in the colored pictures of the countryside and landmarks of Northern England, the beautiful River Ribble and Meadow Street in Preston. Then | quickly read the special feature "Latter-day Saint Trails Along the River Ribble in Northern England,'' and to my great surprise, found the history of my great-grandmother, almost as | have it. | am a great-granddaughter of Ann Elizabeth Walmsley and her dear husband. 1! Have heard my grandmother relate the story of the miraculous ' healing of her mother and her great faith and testimony. | am very proud of my heritage and of the wonderful Relief Society organization. Della V. Passey Davis Portland, Oregon 322 ff | very much enjoyed the poem "The Oakland Temple,'' by Margery S. Stewart in the February issue of the Magazine. It is truly inspired, and magnificently, purely beautiful. She has always been my favorite Latter-day Saint poet, and this is her masterpiece, in my opinion. Margaret B. Jorgensen Los Angeles, California - | was so thrilled to find in the February issue of the Magazine Ethel Jacobson's poem "Valentine for Stephanie.'' |, too, have a little Valentine named Stephanie, who is six months old. Thank you very much for a very helpful and interesting magazine. Claudine H. Brimhall Farmington, New Mexico What a beautiful cover for the March Magazine. | picked it up and laid it down, and had to pick it up again. It brought a calm and restful feeling to me. In this fast-moving and ~ congested world, it was just what | needed. Dorothy J. Smith Salt Lake City,. Utah Thank you for the beauty contained in ''The Time of the Singing of Birds" (March editorial by Vesta P. Crawford). It is lovely. | am sure the hearts of many readers will be warmed and strengthened by it. This issue of the Magazine seems beautiful throughout. Miriam R. Anderson San Bernardino, California | wish to tell you how much I enjoy the lovely Magazines. My husband is a student here, and he has very little time to spare, but henever misses reading my Magazine. The Magazines are a constant source of inspiration to us in rearing our son and building our family relationships. | gave some of the old copies of the Magazine to my: neighbor to help her with Christmas decorating ideas. Later, | found her reading the Magazines. ''They are too beautiful to spoil,"' she said. No college student should be without the Magazine. Mrs. Julia Whiting Moscow, Idaho ¢9) the Relief Society Magazir = oe 

Volume 52 Number 5 May 1965 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford
Contents
 Special Features 324 "Bring Up Your Children in Light and Truth" Vivian R. McConkie 327 Literary Contest Announcements 1965 830 Teaching Truths to Teens Through the Family Home Evening Lila B. Walch 339 Gifts From My Mother Sylvia Probst Young 372 Magazine Honor Roll for 1964. Marianne C. Sharp 385 The Relief Society Magazine in the Lehi (Utah) Carnegie Library Gudrun Wathen Fiction 333 Ring Around Her Heart — Chapter 1 Shirley Thulin 341 The Fourth Commandment Camilla Woodbury Judd 349 Abide With Me Lenora Hansen 361 The Anniversary Nita Ellis 367 The Turn of the Se 8 (Conclusion) Mabel Harmer General Features 322 From Near and Far 346 Editorial: Relief Society Compassion Marianne C. Sharp 348 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 386 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 400 Birthday Congratulations The Home - inside and Out 355 Desserts From Australia Mary A. Lovett 355 Family Home Evening Special Casserole Ida A. Isaacson 356 Make an Add-on Pocket Adelle Ashby 359 Quality Quilts — A Relief Society Tradition 383 Just for a Moment — Jeanette C. Ryder Lesson for July 393 Work Meeting — When Has the Gospel Been Taught? Alberta H. Christensen Poetry 321 Toa Child — Dorothy J. Roberts Melody, by Celestia J. Taylor, 329; Joseph's Gift, by Carol Lynn Wright, 329; Drafted, by Bernice Ames, 332; Another's Need, by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 338; Mother's Day, by Patty Linn F. Tolley, 340; A Mother-in-Law Speaks, by Christine Stacey, 345; Burdens, by Catherine B. Bowles, 353; Old-Fashioned, by Ruth G. Rothe, 354; Log Cabin Quilt, by Maude Rubin, 358; A Mother's Solitude, by Margaret B. Jorgensen, 360; This House, by Leora Larsen, 384; May, by Annie Atkin Tanner, 384; Rain Forest, by Ethel Jacobson, 385; Room for Dreams, by Grace Barker Wilson, 397; No Day Is Lost, by Rosa Lee Lloyd, 398; The Mother, by Lael W. Hill, 398; A Suggestion, by Iris W. Schow, 400. 4 

Published monthly by Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Ae manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

Vivian R. McConkie @ We determined, as young parents, that the greatest challenge of our lives was to bring up our children in light and truth. We knew that to achieve this goal we would need to formulate and follow a family plan. The problem was: What should it be? What course should we follow? We knew the Lord had commanded us as parents to teach our children the doctrines of faith, repentance, baptism, and the gift of the Holy Ghost; to teach them "to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord'; to teach them to observe the Sabbath day, and to work—all with a warning that should we fail the sin would be upon our heads. (D&C 68: 25-31.) We also knew that the man who at that time presided over 324 Vivian McConkie Adams and her daughters Julie (left) and Jeanine, wearing coats which Mrs. Vivian Redd McConkie, grandmother of Mrs. Adams, made for them in a home sewing project. The Church, President Joseph F. Smith, had given counsel and promises where the operation of Latter-day Saint homes was concerned. Among many other things, he had said: There is no substitute for the home.... There can be no genuine happiness separate and apart from _ the home.... There is no happiness without service, and there is no service greater than that which converts the home into a divine institution, and which promotes and preserves family life (Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, 5th ed., page 300). Not one child in a hundred would go astray, if the home environment, example and training, were in harmony with the truth in the gospel of Christ, as revealed and taught to the Latter-day Saints. Fathers and mothers, you are largely to blame for the infidelity and indifference of your children. You can remedy the evil by "BRING UP YOUR CHILDREN IN LIGHT AND TRUTH" earnest worship, example, training and discipline, in the home (Ibid. P. 302). And again: What then is an ideal home?... It is one in which all worldly considerations are secondary. One in which the father is devoted to the family with which God has blessed him, counting them of first importance, and in which they in turn permit him to live in their hearts. One in which there is confidence, union, love, sacred devotion between father and mother and children and parents. One in which the mother takes every pleasure in her children, supported by the father — all being moral, pure, Godfearing (Ibid., pp. 302-303). Upon mature reflection our parental challenge seemed realistic and our set goal obtainable. We would follow counsel, teach our children the gospel by precept and example, add whatever persuasion and _ encouragement seemed necessary, and then rely upon the Lord to fulfill his promise that if we trained up a child in the way he should go, when he was old he would not depart from the path of righteousness. From its beginning until now our home has been a _ gospel school. Parents and children have consistently and regularly engaged in organized theological discussions. This matter of teaching the gospel in the home presupposes that the parents know what they are expected to teach. It is the responsibility of parents to become informed about the principles of the gospel. Children will be taught and trained, one way or another. If they are not trained in the home, they will gain knowledge from their associates. Whatever their training, whether good or bad, it is not likely that they will depart from it. Rearing a good family is no accident. It is the result of following a consistent course. It is not sufficient to teach by example alone. The idea that it is better to see a sermon than hear one is only partially true. No student ever qualifies for a college degree because of the good example of his teachers. The student must also learn the lessons involved. Similarly, where the gospel is concerned, children must learn the whys and wherefores if they are to build a foundation for future righteousness. Sabbath observance has been one of the most effective means of keeping spiritual things uppermost in the lives of the members of our family. We always used the Sabbath as a teaching day. Following Sunday School, it was standard practice to discuss the lessons learned there. When my husband was president of the California Mission, a nonmember of the Church called at the mission headquarters and said: ''Last week I went to your son James' Sunday School class in the Manhattan Ward in New York. After the class I met him and his wife and was invited to their home for Sunday dinner. A prominent musician friend was also invited. After the meal was served James said: 'We will now go into the front room and talk about the gospel. It is a family tradition. My father always taught his children the gospel on Sunday afternoons.' " Proper persuasion, as well as teaching, aids the cause of righteousness. James was a talented musician. As a young boy, he would listen to the symphony or- 325 MAY 1965 chestra broadcasts and follow the musical scores as he did so. One of these broadcasts was scheduled for the same hour as our ward sacrament meeting, and he had a great desire to stay home and listen to it. He said: "Daddy, I don't have to go to sacrament meeting unless I want to, do I?" The reply was: 'No, of course you don't; but you do want to do the right thing, and the right thing is to go to sacrament meeting; now hurry and get your coat, or you will be late." IN rearing a family the problem of money is ever with us. Young couples who have the attitude that their happiness depends upon how much money can be theirs to spend are sowing the seeds of discontent in their hearts and making a miserable home for themselves and their children. A capable wife who knows how to. Manage the spending of the. Family income wisely is worth her weight in gold. A sad commentary of our times is that young married people expect to start out with the modern luxuries which it took their parents years to acquire. This spirit of the times is partly the fault of parents, particularly mothers. Children should be taught in the home, before marriage, the value of a dollar and the art of industry. There are' few people whose money wants are fully satisfied. One's desires must be disciplined. Dollars can be saved if a mother knows how to sew, cook, decorate, and make handicraft items. We love to do the things we can do well. More women would stay in their homes and care for 326 and train their children if they knew more about the fine art of homemaking and what it means in the rearing of a family. Many mothers get great satisfaction out of sewing for their children and grandchildren, thus helping out in family budgets. Keeping the home and children clean, sewing, mending, washing, ironing, and preparing wholesome and well-balanced meals are all in themselves joyous experiences which help unite families in love and unity. Few things give a child a greater feeling of security and love than to come into a kitchen and smell the savory aroma of bread baking in the oven or some special dish cooking on the stove. Bringing up children in light and truth is a full-time occupation—and more—for parents. Fortunately, by following the programs and teachings of the Church, it turns out to be rewarding as well as challenging. And the more mature and stable parents become, the more they realize that the accumulation of worldly possessions and worldly honors should properly be relegated to the background, and that true joy and contentment come from rearing a family that is a credit to society and the Church. Truly, as President David O. McKay says, "No success compensates for failure in the home," for heaven itself is to us simply the continuation of the family unit in eternity. If we can learn how to arrange and conduct our family affairs in this life so that all members of the family will be united together in peace and joy forever, how great shall be our eternal joy! Literary Contest Announcements a y = LyYOS — - Tue Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The General Board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winner of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. "> iD Eliza & @ The Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1965. Prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize - --------:00---+$40 Second prize -.-.----------------$30 Third prize -..---------------$20 Prize poems will be published in the January 1966 issue of The Relief Society Magazine (the birth month of Eliza R. Snow). Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board, and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. > = Cy gh ETD, ewee Pm: 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible. Where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestants to insure against loss.) 4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany a poem. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted, certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state title) is the contestant's original work. C. That it has never been published. D. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 327 MAY 1965 9. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person trom the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points: Message or theme Form and pattern Rhythm and meter Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem e. Climax 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1965. 11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. Ao o p Relief Society Short Story Contest @ The Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1965 opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1965. The prizes this year will be as follows: First prize _ - 22222-.2-- ------$75 Second prize - --.-----$60 Third prize _———. 4$50 The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1966. Prize-winning stories become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latterday Saint women — exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the General Board — who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 328 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. The number of the words must appear on the first page of the manuscript. (All words should be counted, including one and two-letter words.) A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestants to insure against loss. 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication.) c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. D. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submit- ted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be 1965 CONTEST ANNOUNCEMENT submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation. B. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style 9. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1965. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. Melody Celestia J. Taylor Oh melody, your song has twisted my heartstrings As taut as the strings of a violin which With the touch of a knowing hand, Vibrate and breathe that Catching its sweetness be song again, fore it fades to nothingness. Nothingness? Can that song die When the wind, the brooks, the birds Still live to tell its story? Joseph's Gift Carol Lynn Wright When famine drained the ancient covenant land, And Jacob's sons went south for Egypt's store Of corn, unaware whose robes they knelt before, They filled their hungry sacks at Joseph's hand. Once more the world knew want. The precious grain That gives the bread of life had blown away Full centuries before. And now, today, in time's repeat, Joseph stands again. In strength he rises from his promised soil, His gathered parts made one, and stretches forth, Still quite unrecognized, a gift whose worth Outweighs the sum of Pharaoh's richest spoil. Oh, empty-handed sons 0 ¢ Jacob, look — And take the wealthy store of Joseph's book. 323 Lila B. Walch Member, General Board of Relief Society @ The phone rang in the Anderson home. Ver] answered and his mother heard the following one-sided conversation: "Hello, yes, this is Verl. Oh, Hi, Paul. "No, I can't... Sure, I'd like to but I can't. No need to ask Mom, J know I can't. "Well, I just know, that's why. There're times when you don't want to coax. You know I like to bowl just as much as you do, but tonight I'm staying home. "Sure I feel good. No, I'm not grounded. This just happens to be a real special night at our home and we all want to be here "No, it isn't a birthday and we don't have company. Well, it Seated in front: Idon Chadwick Anderson, Dona, Ernest Anderson, Erma; Standing: Vaughan, Erlene, Larry, Verl. Ie. Le | - Yi 4 TRS, ae wd + ': Fou) |:. -! C %,; 1!.. Ae A | an ay TEACHING TRUTHS TO TEENS THROUGH THE FAMILY HOME EVENING just happens to be our Family Home Evening. I know you don't know what that is 'cause you don't go to our Church, but boy it's great. I'll ask Mom and Dad if I can invite you over some night.... "We have one every week. "No, it isn't preachy! Sure, we talk some about religion but it's fun. Mom and Dad talk with us and we get our questions answered. Boy! It really makes you feel good when your Dad stays home from important meetings just to be with his family. He says nothing except an emergency will keep him away, and we haven't had any of those yet "Mom? Sure she meets with us. She helps plan and helps us fix up special eats. We take turns. Boy! You ought to see what we're having tonight. Mom and I just got it made.. "No, I can't tell you because it's a surprise and Donna would tell the whole family. She's right here listening to every word. Well, Paul, I have to hang up. It's almost time to get started on Home Evening. Tell Tom and Don I'll bow! With you another night.. "You don't think you'll go tonight either? How come you don't feel like it all of a sudden? You sick or something? Sure, I'll remember to invite you over sometime. Mom says you are welcome to come tonight, but since you don't feel.. "You do? You want to come > right now? O. K., you'll find our Home Evening is really great!" ParENTS, could this conversation have taken place in your home? Do your teenage boys and girls want to be with you on Home Evening? Do they consider their home a very special place because they know it is special with you? As they grow older and leave you to start homes of their own, what will their memories be? Will their homes be founded on a firm foundation because in their youth they were taught the gospel, their testimonies were strengthened, and they learned to get along with others through the Family Home Evening Program? Verl's home was this kind of a home. For as long as he could remember, Home Evenings had been a part of his life. He lived in a non-Latter-day Saint community, and this seemed to make those nights even more special to the family. In his home the evening of study, program, fun, and refreshments, often included holding a coun-. Cil which was a help in solving problems that arise daily in a home of growing children. If these problems were of minor importance, how convenient it was to say, "Bring this up in our Family Home Evening, we will discuss it there." Of course, only the major problems were remembered, and the little annoyances were eliminated with the children feeling that justice would be done. In their Home Evening Programs they had fun times, serious times, evenings laden with nostalgic memories, learning times, laughing times, working times, play times, weird programs, good food, nearly always a spiritual discussion, musical memories, problem solving, evenings dealing with genealogy, family reunion nights, Christ- 331 MAY 1965 mas programs, birthday celebrations, holiday keeping. Usually just the family participated, but on special occasions they held them at the grandparents' homes, with close family friends, around the campfire on camping trips, or with a lonely boy invited, such as Paul. As their family matured, their agenda developed to fit their needs and enjoyment. For the past thirteen years, since they have had children old enough to record minutes, they have kept a written permanent record of family nights. Occasionally, when they want to enjoy a real special time, they read through the pages of their "Home Evening Record" and chuckle together as they reminisce about past problems and pleasures. They have had some evenings they felt were failures, too. Whenever this happened, father and mother held a council and sometimes called in some of the older children to analyze what was the trouble. Better planning usually corrected the difficulty right away. Home Evenings have been a source of strength and joy in this home. The family members have come to know each other better, to appreciate each other more, to enjoy each other's talents and develop them. Because of home evenings, their love for each other is deeper and their eratitude for their home is more complete. Their understanding and love for the gospel have increased and their lives are more joyously full. These parents have built memories for their children that will strengthen them in hours of temptation or doubt. The children have built memories for the parents that will make their lives rich and full when they are left alone. To this family, Home Evening is REALLY GREAT. Drafted Bernice Ames It was nearly time to go. His dimples were flags When he looked at me. Behind his eyes was a darkness. No word freed him into the room. "Lamb for dinner?'' | asked. "| don't care."' But his words weighed like caring. "Some pictures of the family?" But now, 'Nothing extra," he said, Barely clearing the fence of the word. On the way in the car There was little but silence, Pillars of it and careful notice Of everything outside whirling by. At the moment of parting | tried to focus my camera Adding to twenty-two years of futile attempts. We slipped the bolt of goodbye Finding no words to free us. 332 Shirley Thulin _/ CHAPTER 1 @ The cab pulled up to the curb and even when the driver came around to open the door, Joan didn't move, not at first. A burden within her heart spread through her like quicksilver, heavy and fluid, and then found its way to her throat and swelled. In that moment before the cab driver got to her door, the past three years unfolded before her like an old melodrama, only the villain was no one she could vis- 333 MAY 1965 - ualize. The villain was misunderstanding and circumstances. Maybe the villain was herself. Surely no one had meant to hurt her and drive her out of the town where she was born, and grew in. No one had asked her to resign at the hospital. She had only herself to blame for that. It was just that the echoes in the halls and corridors began to repeat the past, and drum the loneliness and heartache into her with every step. And the town, the hospital, the people and herself were all so tangled up together that she didn't know how to separate them. She had spent her happy years in Elmdale and had grown sensitive to its beautiful natural surroundings, its deep lakes and rugged mountains. And as did the people who were her friends and her parents' friends, the mountains warmed her and reassured her when she looked up to them. She had found life in Elmdale good. The days had been filled with the accomplishment of her hospital duties, and her Sundays had been devoted to her class of ten-year-old boys. Even when her mother passed away and she had no one left, she had felt that she still could go on, still belonged. She had learned to reach out and take that which was good of life and of her work, and of her fellow men. She sat in the cab now and wondered that all this could have been taken from her in so short a time. True, she still had had her friends and her work, but there had been the heaviness that lay deep within her, and she knew she must get away. She knew she was too close to everything and everyone in Elmdale. 334 As the driver opened the door, she almost told him to get back in and drive her away, but where would she go? She fumbled with some change and then stood between the two suitcases looking up at the building as the cab drove away. The three-story stone structure seemed bright, openfaced and friendly. The windows were big, and shone clean in the early morning sun. In fact, the whole building looked as if it had just been scrubbed with some kind of bubbly soap and washed off with a giant hose. The front of the building was new, but she had seen as the cab neared, that the rear walls were faded with the years. It's just like me, she thought, it has put on a new face of granite and now stands for all to see, with a new hope, and a new belief. It's almost as though it were laughing at the world because of the new truths it has learned along with the remodeling, she thought. Only she wasn't laughing... She was hoping and longing. Joan leaned over to pick up her suitcases, and the door opened and a tall boy came out. He hurried down the steps and straight towards her. "Hi, I'm David. You must be Mrs. Morgan. We've been expecting you." "I'm Miss Morgan," Joan corrected, not meaning to sound so affected. For her words had made a shadow of hurt pass quickly over his face. His eyes, deep with ready friendship, had clouded slightly. "I'm sorry. I mean... Here, let me take those. The nurse's home is next door." Joan looked at him. He was so like another boy she once knew. Another boy who had lain sick for so long and had needed so much of her care, and then had died, taking a little of her with him. It was then that she had learned she shouldn't grow too fond of the patients. Shouldn't let them tug at her with their wanting and their needing. She found that she must be indifferent, withdrawn, efficient... But her heart was not yet harnessed, not yet disciplined. Now, with a new hospital and people who had never known her, she felt sure she could accomplish this. David picked the bags up and Joan almost told him not to bother, but she was tired from the long trip and she knew they were heavy. No use to be contrary, she thought. But she could not help wondering how she was ever going to learn where to draw the line between keeping herself in reserve, and being downright hostile. It will take practice, she thought, lots of practice. "Thank you," Joan told David. "I would appreciate it if you'll take them to my room. I'll go inside and talk to Doctor Niles." "First office to your right. He's waiting for you." Joan hesitated for just a moment, then made her feet move in the direction of the cement steps. She felt like a stranger invading the private domain of the king in a strange new city. She remembered the time she hadfaced her first hospital administrator. She was just out of high | school with a scholarship in her handbag, and a world full of dreams in her heart. That was ten. Years ago, and a thousand RING AROUND HER HEART heartaches ago. Today, she still had dreams and she was frightened. She had heard that Doctor Niles was very efficient and that he was noted for not being overly friendly. Mrs. Davis, with whom she had corresponded in connection with this position had let her know what to expect of Doctor Niles. ""He has come up through the ranks," Mrs. Davis had written, ''and is very exacting." Well, wasn't that just what she had wanted? Hadn't she been very careful to choose just such a hospital with just such an administrator? Before Joan had applied for the position of superintendent of nurses in the hospital, she had been very thorough in her investigation. She wanted a hospital in a large enough town where people were strangers. She wanted to work in a large hospital where patients were people who needed her help, but who were not her lifelong friends, their stricken faces pleading from white pillows. Hillcrest had fit the bill as far as a town was concerned, and the Hillcrest Memorial Hospital fit her choice of a hospital... At least she hoped it would. Joan started up the steps, and each one seemed a big climb in the direction of the unknown into an adventure that she was not sure she welcomed. That was strange for Joan. When she was little, she had been very adventurous. There wasn't a path ora trail she didn't know. She was familiar with each hill and each meadow in Elmdale. She almost knew all the cows by name. And she really did know all the people. Everyone said it was too bad she 335 MAY 1965 wasn't a boy, they were sure she could be the mayor when she grew up. But when she grew up, she had the same desire she had always had. She wanted to be a nurse, and she had become one. A good nurse, devoted and loving only no one had warned her about being too devoted... Too loving. Well, it wouldn't happen again, she promised herself. She would never again be so close to a patient that his dying would reach her. Doctor Niles looked up from his desk at her entrance. "'Yes?" he said, and the word had a tone that made Joan uneasy. "I'm Joan Morgan," she stated in a very efficient voice, and she could tell that he was impressed with her statement. "Well.'"' He adjusted his glasses and looked from her to the papers on his desk. "I've been going over your file. You have an excellent record, Miss Morgan, but you are very young to be." "TI have worked hard to get that excellent record in so few years." Her voice was just short of being stern and sounded unfamiliar to her. Doctor Niles looked up and studied her, then smiled a thin smile, one that seemed to reach over its boundary, as if it wasn't used to spreading that far over his face. "Well, I can see that you will do well here, Miss Morgan..: very well indeed. Here are some things I want you to study. I don't mind telling you, Miss Morgan, here at Hillcrest, we go by the book. It won't be easy for you. The nurses will naturally resent your age. It's never easy for someone to accept as his superior 336 a younger person," and as Doctor Niles went on, explaining, warning, Joan looked at him and knew that it would be not only her age that would be against her. Her new stern personality would be, too. She knew she would first have to prove to her staff that she was a hard worker, untiring and efficient. Then they would respect her, she knew. Joan looked at Doctor Niles. He was a man in his middle forties, and handsome, despite his rather thin face and precise features. Even though he was sitting down, she could see that he was tall, and that he was in the habit of carrying himself very straight. And though he disturbed her in a way she was at a loss to explain, at the same time she seemed to feel a certain amount of attraction towards him. All the while he was talking to her, his steel gray eyes pierced hers, and the fleeting wide smile did not show itself again. ".. And of course you will be directly responsible for the nurses." Doctor Niles finished and leaned toward her. "Are there any questions, Miss Morgan?" "No, sir. You have made yourself quite clear, and I am in agreement with your policies." "Very good. I'll have Miss Jackson show you around, and David take your bags..'.." "David has already seen to that, thank you." "Fine." His finger picked out a button from the row on his desk, and then he leaned back and looked at Joan. "Tell me. Why did you leave Elmdale? You were doing so well there." "T left because the town sud- Miss Jackson, this js Miss Morgan. I'd like you to Show her around." "You're Miss Morgan? You look so young to be that is "Miss Morgan has an excellent record and was the Superintend- "Oh, I'm sure she will, Doctor Niles. It's only that M was so Dr. Niles organ, we have very inadequate We are Planning to build an addition to the nurses' about them. T or two troublemakers that RING AROUND HER HEART Then suddenly there was Doctor Dean Desmond. As Miss J ackbarely e acknowledged the introduction briskly, with » you're here already. I'm Kathy Dirk, your roommate." "T'm Joan Morgan. It's almost eleven. Aren't you, > le "Supposed to be in by ten? Right! But I missed my bus, and my family had to bring me. That entailed the backing of a lunch, honing to let everyone know the Change of Plans,, | 337 MAY 1965 honestly, you'd think we had to go a thousand miles rather than less than a hundred."' Kathy slipped out of her smart street clothes and into her nightgown as she talked. 'You know, being a member of a big family has its problems. Mom still thinks I'm a baby, and not capable of staying at Hillcrest for one single week end." "You mean you have every week end off?" "Have so far." "And how have you managed that?" "Well, the others trade with me. They need the money the extra shifts bring and don't seem to mind. Mom would worry if I did not come home, so it works out just fine." As Kathy disappeared into the other room, Joan knew she should reprimand her for being late. She knew she would have to do something about her trading every week end, and yet suddenly a pang of longing filled her. Why? What had come over her? Joan knew. It was a homesickness that filled her. She knew that it was brought on by the mention of Kathy's family. She also knew her longing was brought on by the way Kathy moved, the way she talked, with such youthfulness and assurance. Not the assurance that comes with learning and living... But the assurance that is born of youth and of the lack of learning. When Kathy slipped into her bed on the other side of the room, Joan thought of her first roommate and of the talk that went on far into the night most nights. Well, there would be none of that with them. Joan had found that rocmmates were not to be trusted. Once they became familiar with your secret inner thoughts, once you dared ask them questions like those Joan would like to ask Kathy right now one's hopes and dreams were no longer one's own.... No, she would have to subdue her curiosity and observe. Still, before she could fall asleep, the question pierced her thoughts... Was Doctor Niles married? And what were the intentions behind Dr. Dean Desmond's teasing brown eyes? (To be continued) Another's Need Evelyn Fjeldsted It seemed to her she could not live; No one gave to her, she had naught to give. She could not live; there was no hope, With sordid life she could not cope. And then she saw another's need She had failed in word and deed. Herself effaced, she somehow knew, If there was time what she could do. The moon went down, the starlight paled— The sun came up—time had not failed. 338 Cj Feom My Moiier Sylvia Probst Young w Yesterday, at the home of a friend, I admired a delicately beautiful figurine. '"That,'"' she said proudly, "is a gift from my mother. It was imported from Italy."' On my way home I thought about the gifts my mother had given me. Materially I don't have much from her—two patchwork quilts she made for me when I was married, an old-fashioned treadle sewing machine, a glass cakestand, a pair of embroidered pillowcases, and a knitting sampler that she made some eighty years ago in a little Swiss school. These things came to me when she died, and moneywise they aren't worth very much. But Mother had left to me some priceless gifts that cannot be bought with money—a legacy for which I am deeply grateful. My mother taught me to love God's great out-of-doors — the wonder of the seasons, the miracle of a seed, the song of a brook, the return of a bird. Morning after summer morning we worked together in the garden. Her neat rows of vegetables, bordered by sweet peas and delphinium were admired by friends and neighbors near and far. And how often in the opal twilight we climbed our hill to watch night come softly over the valley. There was a cold winter morning when we walked across the crusted snow of the meadows to see how the frost had turned the creek and the willows into a regal fairyland. 339 MAY 1965 To mother, books were as essential as bread and butter. She wanted us to know good literature, and we early came to know the works of such writers as Wordsworth and Shakespeare, Longfellow and Lowell. When a traveling library came to our little town she would see that we borrowed some delightful books for our vacation reading. The Church magazines—The Children's Friend, The Juvenile Instructor, The Young Ladies' Journal, The Improvement Era, and The Relief Society Magazine were very carefully kept and at the end of the year we bound these precious volumes with the aid of a paper punch and some shoelaces. There was a special shelf in our clothes closet for these 'bound volumes," and we read them over and over again. Mother had a deep appreciation for good music, and she helped us to gain a love for it. Whenever I think of our front room I remember the corner where the organ stood, and the young people who gathered around it to sing together. Some of us children were always practicing on that old pump organ, and Mother willingly did washings to pay for music lessons. My mother was deeply spiritual, her family and my father's had come to America for the gos- | pel, and to them it was the most precious thing in the world. We learned about the Lord very early, and we were taught the value and importance of prayer and faith, repentance and baptism, the paying of tithing and the Word of Wisdom. Our winter nights were spent around a wood-burning stove reading the gospel together. We took turns reading chapters from the Bible and The Book of Mormon. Together, we read the life of Christ from the New Testament, and Joseph Smith's Story. From the Old Testament, we read the stories of all the wonderful old prophets — Moses, Joseph, Samuel, Daniel, or sometimes, Mother told those stories. She loved to tell stories, and she was a wonderful storyteller. Through her teachings we learned the great value of spiritual blessings and gained a knowledge of the truth. These are some of the gifts my mother gave to me. Time cannot efface them nor can thieves break in and take them from me. These gifts are far more precious than rubies, and for them I shall be eternally grateful to the wonderful woman who was my mother. Mother's Day Patty Linn F. Tolley Sing me no anthems. Bring no fragile flowers. Just put my small one in my arms And let me hold him. 340 @ The old bell in the little church steeple tolled the half hour as Ellen Larkin kissed the youngest of her children and sent her on her way to Sunday School. Little Mary lingered in the doorway. "I wish that you would come to Sunday School with me today, Mama," she coaxed. "T would like to go with you, my darling," Ellen replied wistfully, "but you see I am not' ready, and there is dinner to prepare, and Daddy likes it promptly at noon." Little Mary's eyes opened wide as she answered, "My Sunday School teacher said that we should never work on Sunday, a& because it is God's day. Today it is Mother's Day, and God's day, too. Oh, please come, Mama." The tears welled in Ellen's eyes. For some Strange reason, they were always quite near the surface of late. She wanted so much to go with her baby, but Camilla Wood bury Judd 341 MAY 1965 there was that proverbial Sunday feast to prepare, a custom that the Larkin family had handed down from one generation to the next for many years. Ellen avoided Mary's eyes as she replied, "I really can't go with you today, sweetheart, now run along or you'll be late."' A feeling of guilt engulfed her as she watched the disappointed child until she had turned the corner. Hot tears scalded Ellen's eyes. She could not shut out the vision of that eager, pleading face. "I should have left it all and gone with her," she accused herself. ''Mother's Day comes only once a year and God's day but once out. Of seven." With nervous fingers she dabbed at her eyes with the hem of her starched gingham apron and pinned a stiff lock of premature gray hair into place behind her ear. "I declare, it does keep a body busy; if I did get up at six to get them all fed and off on time. I must be growing old," she said to herself. Henry LarkKIN had departed for Priesthood meeting a good half hour earlier, with an admonition to each child to hurry up and be on time. Punctuality, honesty, reliability, and order were a legacy that had also been handed down. He was faithful in his observance of the Sabbath and expected the same of his children. They must clean up in respect to the Lord and attend to all their Church duties. With Ellen it was different. She had, through the struggling years, made a willing slave of herself for Henry to whom she looked with a mixed feeling of awe, admiration, and love. Henry was a 342 husband to be proud of, intelligent, progressive, and active in Church and civic affairs. A good husband, warm and gentle deep down, but with little outward display of sentimentality. He was, in short, an English gentleman who firmly believed that, "A man's house is his castle," and his wife's whole ambition should be to make it a shining one. He had built her this home, patterned after the style of his homeland, with tall gabled roof and dormer windows. It was back in the lot. The long driveway was fenced in by well-kept hedges and grapevine arbors. The house was E]llen's pride and joy; no smudge or spot of dust escaped her eye. No outside interest was of more importance than her housework. Over the years it had become a habit she could not break, and Henry had long since ceased to urge her to change her ways. Alone with her thoughts, she sat down to eat her breakfast as she planned the morning's work. First, the two chickens must be stuffed and be put into the oven to bake, and the dried corn to steam in the double boiler. Then she would make the marble cake that Bennie had ordered and the cream-coconut pies which were always expected. The rest could wait until she had done up the morning work. INNoon found Mother Larkin's Sunday feast steaming on the kitchen range, when little Mary fluttered in, bubbling with excitement and thrust into her mother's hand a small booklet of verse. "Oh, Mama, why didn't you come?" she cried. "All the chil- | dren gave a pretty flower to their mothers, and you weren't there. Marjory London's mother looked so pretty. Her hair was marcelled and she wore a new silk dress and hat and everything." Mary's rehearsal ended in a sob, and Ellen clasped the unhappy child to her breast, whispering feeble words of comfort. But the child would not be comforted. "Marjory said that she had the prettiest mother of all, and I told her that my mother is the very prettiest in the whole world, if she just had her hair curled and was wearing pretty clothes." Henry Larkin looked up very quickly from his place at the head of the table, where he was impatiently waiting for the family to take their places. Ellen felt his critical scrutiny, while she hastened to pin the unruly lock of stiff gray hair behind her ear. "Your mother's wish to stay at home is her privilege, Mary, and, as to clothes, she would not wear them if she had them."' Ellen gripped the huge platter of golden browned chicken she was carrying while the color fled from her overheated face. Henry turned abruptly toward her, ""My dear wife, can't we have dinner on time?" ELLEN dashed into the kitchen to hide the hurt that was stabbing her heart and blinding her eyes, and as she served the meal, the words, "On time, on time, on time,' raced through her brain. For thirty years, she had lived by the clock, and now a sudden rebellion seethed within her. Silently she moved from the hot kitchen stove to the long dining table, elegant in shining linen, her THE FOURTH COMMANDMENT best china and silverware for this special day; until the whole sumptuous banquet, from tomato bouillon to melting cream pies, was spread before the smiling eyes of Henry Larkin. After the blessing had been said on the food, Ellen, too tired to eat, made her way to her room where she sank into the little rocker beside her work table. Adjusting her glasses, she picked up the worn family Bible and turned its pages to the Ten Commandments. Running her finger down the list until she came to the fourth, she read: Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labour, and do all thy work: But the seventh day is the sabbath of the Lord thy God: in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates. For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day: wherefore the Lord blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed it. Mother Larkin read it over and over again: "Thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates."' Surely she was not reading right. She cleaned her tear-blurred bifocals and read it again. Yes, she was right, there was no mention made of "Thy wife.' All were specifically mentioned except her. The punishment of Mother Eve, no doubt, for disobedience in partaking of the forbidden fruit. Ellen closed the book and put it back in its place. She felt beaten, cheated somehow, for down deep in her rebellious heart she 343 MAY 1965 had hoped to find encouragement to ease up on the Sunday job. Unless, the thought struck her, she could be counted as "thy maidservant," for had she not been a servant in this house, caring for their needs, coming at their beck and call? Henry and her sons, all six of them, had accepted her servitude as they had accepted the rising and setting of the sun. Had not Bennie ordered the marble cake, and hadn't they all rushed off without bringing her a stick of wood or a bucket of coal and Mother Larkin came to herself with a start. Why, what kind of husbands would they make? Was she herself rearing six sons to be inconsiderate, to bring hardship upon the wives that they would someday marry? What a blind, miserable failure she had been, after all, and Ellen broke into sobs—sobs that shook and awakened her soul. Fumbling in her apron pocket for her handkerchief, her fingers touched the booklet of Mother Poems, and there on the front page were the words: Dear Mother, We cordially invite you to attend our Mother's Day program this evening at 6: P. M. To be given in the ward chapel by the members of the Aaronic Priesthood. Sincerely your servants, Ward Bishopric A sudden warmth crept into Ellen's heart. Somehow the word, "servant," didn't have a _ bad connotation at all. The Aaronic Priesthood—why, that took in two of her boys. Strange they had not mentioned it. But then, she reflected, she had not had 344 time to enter into their activities. She had been too busy and too absorbed in keeping the windows of Henry's castle shining to listen to their chatter. But she would go to their program. She would show them that she loved them and appreciated their efforts and their concern. She took down her old pongee dress from its hanger. She hadn't worn it since George had graduated from Junior High. It was a bit old-fashioned, but would do with a good pressing. The pink satin housecoat hanging beside it, which they had all given her a year ago, along with the bedroom slippers to match, were still unworn. She had found no time to relax in a delicate, pink robe. Those things were for pampered women of leisure. And then she saw it— the long box, tied up with bright blue ribbon lying on the bed and the card which read—"To Mother, with all our love." Ellen almost fainted. Then she dropped down on the bed beside the box and wept over its contents. Father was justly right, "She wouldn't wear them if she had them." She was to blame, after all. They had grown used to her excuses for staying home. Self-accusations welled up inside her as she solemnly resolved to change her ways. MioorHer Larkin tingled with a strange excitement as she stood before her mirror. The stiff unmanageable locks lay in soft curls around her temples. Her eyes, blue as the new dress that Henry had bought her, were bright with expectancy as she adjusted her new hat at a smart angle, pulled on the white gloves and tucked the lace handkerchief into her shiny new handbag. The chapel was nearly filled when, with little Mary joyfully holding her hand, she slid silently into a back seat. The stand was beautifully decorated and seats of honor were arranged under a banner inscribed, "Our Mothers." Young men were escorting their mothers to the seats of honor. The seats were almost filled now, and a young man was standing behind the pulpit. She couldn't see his face clearly for a vase of flowers, but he resembled her Paul. Ellen's heart beat fast, and she felt smothery. Of course she didn't count, it was for those who did count, it was for those who went to church regularly, the faithful ones. The young man was still standing there staring into the audience. Was it stage fright or was he looking for someone? Suddenly he stepped forward. It was Paul, her Paul so tall and handsome. He was smiling and coming straight toward her. "Oh, Mother, I'm glad," he whispered and proudly led her to a seat of honor. THE FOURTH COMMANDMENT Ellen felt like a queen as she listened to the eulogies of love and devotion, praise and admiration bestowed upon the mothers of men. Tributes to their careworn hands, their understanding and forgiving hearts; their courage and love that led them into the valley of the shadows; all their faith and suffering that triumphed over death. She forgot her weaknesses in the fragrance of the yellow carnation pinned on her breast, and the words of the bishop, "I am very pleased that Mother's Day comes on the Sabbath. The Sabbath is made for our spiritual uplifting. Let our bodies rest, that we may keep the laws of the God of nature, for he organized our bodies and he knows what they can endure. I think God made the Sabbath Day for tired mothers." Mother Larkin heard no more. Her eyes sought and met Henry's where he sat on the third row. Again she saw the old ardor of pride and tenderness in his eyes as he smiled at her. Then suddenly, the floodgates of her soul gave way and tears of happiness fell unheeded on her idle hands. A Mother-in-Law Speaks. Christine Stacey | have daughters-in-law and sons-in-law, | love them, they're near to my heart. | am happy each day that they're with us to stay, And now of our family a part. If | had my say in matters of state, | would hold to one thought as my aim; | would curtail a phrase, and quickly erase That caption "in law' from the name. 345 Relief Society Compassion m@ '' with the resources they will have at command, they will fly to the relief of the stranger; they will pour in oil and wine to the wounded heart of the distressed; they will dry up the tears of the orphan and make the widow's heart to rejoice." These prophetic words were written of Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith one week after he began the organization on March 17, 1842. In the 123 years since that time, these words have embodied a high purpose and directed daily actions of Relief Society members. Today in 1965, members everywhere are helping to fulfill this prophecy. How often do strangers who move into a community find a welcome expressed by a hot meal, an invitation, or some other service. How many wounded hearts are soothed and comforted by the sweet friendships and understanding hearts of their Relief Society sisters. In the days of Nauvoo and later, the Relief Society presidents would direct the loving care of orphans and see they were absorbed into families, when children were orphaned by sea and land voyages, or when parents succumbed to illnesses which swept the pioneer settlements. In today's world this aspect has changed. Relief Society now provides care for children whose mothers may be in the hospital ill, or mothers of new babies. When death of any member of a family occurs, the president provides both needed service and comforts the widow's heart, or other bereaved members. By careful and prayerful planning a president will involve the great majority of ward or branch sisters to provide extensive services which in her judgment are proper, whereby the great blessings of service are shared by many. Often the president makes the visiting teachers responsible for the first watchcare until such time as the president directs in particular instances. The statistical records of Relief Society compassionate services increase very substantially each year, but the statistics account for but a percentage of the service given by Relief Society. Just certain aspects of care at the time of death are recorded, just bedside nursing service, not other help given, such as in recruiting volunteers to aid in hospitals. The "Other Compassionate Services'' recorded do not include all additional services, nor specialized services given to some youth. Only the Lord knows the extent of the services given by Relief Society as outlined by the Prophet Joseph Smith and endorsed by the prophet today. Volume 52 April 1965 Number 4 e Belle S. Spafford, President e Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor e Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor @ Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer "8, Helen achieved he reputation fe) SUrPasseq in her Cytologj he Sugar beet," has f being "unCal work on Abide With Me Lenora Hansen @ All night the ticking of the cheap alarm clock had hammered Karen Arden with its endless metronome. There had been a time when it seemed to beat the echo of her peace. That was when she lay close beside Jim in the darkness, with the room empty of any sound except the alarm clock's strident voice and Jim's soft breathing. Now Jim Arden's bed was on a rocky, lonesome hill, where they had buried him, seven months ago, when the truck which he was driving had gone over Copper Bluff. Now the clock ticked on and on—part of Karen's yearning and her emptiness. Karen wanted to go home. She wanted to take her two children and go back to her own town and her own people. She wanted to sit at her mother's table and bite her teeth into the crusty edge of bread, hot from her mother's oven, to feel the soft warm center on her palate and to smell the buttered saltiness. She wanted to hear her father's voice again talking to the Lord in family prayer, telling him that this family wanted to serve him, if he would just forgive -their weaknesses and keep on showing them the way to go. But Karen could not go home. She couldn't even feed her children here. If only she could find some way She sighed and, turning back the covers, slid her long legs over the edge of the bed, sitting up. 349 MAY 1965 She felt with her feet for her slippers and reached for her robe, where it had slid from the foot of the bed onto the floor. She checked to see if Susie was still covered. The three-year-old stirred a little, but slept on. She leaned across the railing of the crib and touched her baby, caressing the cowlick that swirled left, up from his forehead, exactly as his father's had done. He carried his father's name—Jim. She sashed the robe tightly around and felt for a brush, using it on her short, dark hair without turning on a light. As she passed the hall closet, she reached in and drew out a blanket. In the other room she pushed back the curtains so that she could see into the night, draped the blanket across her shoulders and sat down in Jim's big chair, drawing her knees up close and wrapping the blanket around them. She prepared to lay out, again, the problem before her. Karen Arden was twenty-seven. She was tall and slender, with a half-hesitant grace of motion. Her eyes were large. Her mouth had a soft look, with a little tilt up at the corners as though a smile were just about to come. Her teeth were even, her complexion clear. She had an easy and listening manner with people. These were what Bob Evans was offering to pay her for—her good looks and her easy listening manner—to serve drinks at his club outside of town—to sit at the tables and listen to his special guests. What did she do if the guests became importunate? What if the gingerale, that Bob promised 350 she would be served, no longer tasted strong enough? The pay that he offered was good. She could hire a woman to take care of the children. This was November. Jim had died in April. The hospital and the burial had taken their little insurance. She had gone home for two weeks after the funeral, to visit with her parents, to postpone being alone and to look for work. There was no work. Her father had asked her to stay on, but she had been quite firm. His heart was bad and he had sold most of the farm. They managed, he and her mother, but there wasn't money to support three more. So she had come back here, where she and Jim had lived last. She and the children had moved into a smaller place and the finance company had picked up the car. She had taken a job in the Canvon Cafe and arranged with a Navajo girl to take care of the children. But the girl went back to the reservation, suddenly, and she had had to stop work. She worked for one week in Anna's Dress Shop. When she cashed her pay check and paid the woman who did baby sitting she had $4.85 left. She had inquired at the bank and at the local business offices. They had all been sorry, but they were all fully staffed. They had written down her name. Karen had advertised for sewing. She had ironed clothes and she had tended children in her home. But the money would not stretch. They really did eat, of course, but the children's clothes had grown too small and Karen didn't know where to get more. Her own clothes were shabby. They all needed shoes. The rent was a few days later every month. A light bill and a water bill lay on her dresser, unpaid. A tight knot of desperation was growing in her stomach. She had to find some better way—and quickly. Was Bob Evans' offer the answer? K arEN sat, pondering and troubled, until the sky began to grow light. Finally she stood up, folded the blanket and then wrapped it around her like a shawl, and, going to the front door, stepped out to see if the fresh day held any promise. She did not notice, as she usually did, where the screen had pulled loose from the door. She didn't see the broken adobe fence, nor the pile of tumbleweeds against the vacant house across the street. Her eyes looked on, beyond, where the trees stood, bare limbed, against a red-cloud sky. A wind blew, sharp against her face. A bird flew down across the fire clouds. She turned back into the house, a little healed. It was the Sabbath Day. When Jim was with her, they used to feed the babies early and drive fifty miles over to Beecroft where there was a Mormon Sunday School. Afterward, they would eat hamburgers at the drive-in, and both the children would go to sleep on the way home. Now Sunday was spent without any Church service. As Karen dressed Susie and the baby in their play clothes, she thought of Sunday morning when she was a child. When she was eight, she had had a lavender check dress with a white organdy collar. She reABIDE WITH ME membered the dress as part of a tingling clean and shiny feeling. Outside the sun was warm; inside the organ played. Her father sat up on the stand, and when she caught his eye, he smiled at her. What would happen if she called up the branch president in Beecroft, and said, ''President Rogers, I'm not a member of your branch, but I belong to the Church and I need help!" What would happen if she called Bob Evans and said, "I've been thinking about that job you offered me, at the club. Drive me over to Beecroft, to my Church tonight, and, maybe, after that I can give you my answer." What if she called Alice Hunt. The Hunts were Mormons. They had no children, so instead of trying to make Sunday School, they drove to Beecroft for sacrament meeting in the evening. Several times, after Jim's death, they had asked Karen to go with them, but the babies were awfully little to be out so late. She had declined. But now she could call Alice! As they got out of the Hunt car in Beecroft that evening, the sky was clouded over and the wind whipped up a blinding dust. The wind tore at Karen's dress and at the baby's blanket. Dust filled her eyes and its taste was in her mouth. Susie clung to her mother's skirts and cried. Just before they reached the chapel door the first great drops of rain came down, gathering the dust as they descended, and spattering it in round mud splats on Karen's shoulders and Susie's dress. Tears came to Karen's eyes. Even the rain came differently 351 summer See it approach- € east, like a misty foot acro, st, Please, SS green Father, let me fi n November, there Work to take my children," A peace Came over her Moment in the song Seemed sy © tears from Susie' ~ee with her € singers: h, Avior, Stay this ni » tis €ventide!" already comturned, Weary, to- ward her own house. Her shoulders sagged; her feet were heavy. She paid and dismissed the baby sitter, stepped out of her shoes and slumped down into the big chair. There she sat—deep, deep down inside, tired—looking at nothing. The baby cried; she didn't go to him. Susie tugged, begging at her knees, but she paid no heed. Hours later, as it was growing dark, she moved. Karen gathered up the baby, bathed and fed him and put him into bed. She took her daughter on her lap and washed the little face and gave her food and kissed her as she tucked her in. Through all of this, she didn't speak; she didn't smile. A great weariness of spirit held her. She had locked the door, pulled off her own clothes and started to lie down, when she remembered the letters. She had taken two letters out of the post office just before noon and put them both in her bag, hurrying on to reach the bank before the manager went out to lunch. She got her robe out of the closet, found her bag, and took the letters out to read them. The first letter was signed by William 3. Hendrix, manager of the bank in Preston, a small town about ABIDE WITH ME eight miles from where her parents lived. The letter read: Dear Mrs. Arden: One of our cashiers is leaving to be married in three weeks. I talked with your father, when he was in this afternoon, and he thought perhaps you might be interested in the work. The starting salary is $200 a month. If you would like the position, please let us' know immediately. | The other letter was from her mother. A check fell out as she unfolded: it. Halfway down the page it read: Bill Porter is driving back and forth to work in Preston every day. He says that, if you take the bank job, you can ride with him. You remember I wrote to you that Bill's wife died a few weeks after your Susie was born? His boy, Melvin, is six. I take care of the boy when he is not in school, until his father gets here. Your father is sending a check. He thinks that you might need the money to get home. The bank must have your answer as soon as possible. Be sure to let us know what you decide. Karen knelt down by her bed, the quick tears and the gratitude poured out together. Joyously she laid her hand against baby Jim's soft cheek. Carefully she slipped underneath the covers close to little Susie. The tiredness fell away into oblivion as Karen slept. Burdens Catherine B. Bowles if aches and pains could be measured They would reach around the earth. If they were put upon a golden scale They would weigh more than they are worth. With patience, skill, and loving care Burdens are lifted through faith and prayer. 353 354 Courtesy American Dairy Association Old-Fashioned Ruth G. Rothe Some people call me old-fashioned To bake bread the way | do, But one thing | have noticed Is that they're old fashioned, too; For just like folks ages ago, They like a slice—or three, Spread with rich old-fashioned jam, Also made by me. ~~ co oS oO a. Rr nn "oe; ' a - t a 2=SSertS Prom} MiisTra f we Ls ww I SS E w/t FT a dj * |: > & Mary A. Lovett Brisbane, Queensland, Australia CHOCOLATE SPONGE CAKE 4 eggs 2 tbsp. Cocoa 1 c. Sugar 14, c. Boiling water 1 c. And 1 tsp. Plain flour 2 tsp. Butter 114 tsp. Baking powder Have all ingredients at room temperature. Separate eggs and beat whites until thick. Add egg yolks and mix evenly through. Gradually add sugar and beat until thick and creamy. Fold in sifted dry ingredients, then add boiling water in which butter is melted. Pour into two greased 8-inch tins or other appropriate pans. Bake in moderate oven 20-25 minutes. Cool and fill with fresh cream or cream filling. Ice with chocolate icing. SUNSHINE TARTLETS Pastry 6 ozs. Plain flour 1 tbsp. Castor (fine) sugar 14 tsp. Baking powder 1 egg yolk pinch salt 2 tbsp. Water 3 ozs. Butter 1 tsp. Lemon juice Sift flour, baking powder, and salt. Add butter and rub it in with fingertips until mixture resembles coarse bread crumbs. Add sugar and mix well. Add egg yolk, water, and lemon juice and mix to a firm dough. Roll out and cut 12 rounds to fit small cake tins (muffin pans). Fill with a spoonful of fruit mince (mincemeat) and top with coconut meringue topping. Topping 1 c. Coconut 1 egg, plus the egg white left over from Yp C. Sugar the pastry, well beaten 14 tsp. Baking powder Mix all ingredients and spoon onto fruit mince (mincemeat). Bake in moderate oven for about 30 minutes. This recipe may be made as one large tart (pie). FAMILY HOME EVENING SPECIAL CASSEROLE Ida Isaacson Cook 1 package frozen green lima beans, as directed on the package. (Fresh green lima beans may be substituted.) Drain off the juice and drink it. (Don't throw it away.) Then add 1% c. Of corn (kernel or creamed) to the hot, cooked limas, return to the stove and cook 1 minute. Open a can of creamed mushroom soup (do not dilute soup)— heat 14 can of soup in separate pan. Put hot beans and corn in a casserole dish. Pour hot, steaming mushroom soup (undiluted) over hot beans and corn and sprinkle a dash or two of cumin over the whole. Brown in 370° oven. 355 Adelle Ashby — = Some of the new styles for the little miss leave the dresses without pockets. This presents a problem when she is sent to school. One suggestion is to make three or four pockets that can be added to her different dresses. Add-on pockets are portable, and are slipped onto her belt. They look pretty on most any style, be it a dress or a skirt (figure 1). If the dress or skirt does not have a belt, just stitch three snaps on the back of the pocket, and three snaps to correspond someplace on the dress. If you make several different colored pockets, they can mix with or match her clothes, and she will always be able to have her milk money or hankie handy. The slip-on pocket has three little loops stitched to the back. FABRIC TO CHOOSE The pocket takes so little material that you can use pieces left over from other sewing projects. A piece of organdy goes well with the daintier dresses, a bit of heavy denim will go with heavy skirts, or some corduroy will team up with jumper dresses. To add a bright note to an otherwise plain dress, try making the add-on pocket of gay plaid or polka dots. Or make a pocket of bright striped corduroy to go with all of her corduroy skirts and jumpers. 356 = 5" top back Ww cut two > figure 1 f:, bias tape loops ' ffigu re 4 CUT FROM DIAGRAM You will need to cut two pocket backs (figure 2) so that the pocket will be sturdy. Then cut the pocket front making it two inches wider than the back. If you are going to use a ruffle or other wide trim, you will need to allow for this in the cutting of the pocket front, and make it smaller than suggested in the diagram, because the completed pocket front should be the same size as the back when finished (figure 3). Be sure to use your pinking shears when cutting organdy or taffeta, to prevent unraveling. SEW BACK FIRST First, sew the two pocket backs together, being sure to put the right sides together. Sew them along the top and sides only, leaving the bottom free to turn. Now turn and press. Stitch three little bias tape loops securely near the top of the pocket back through which the dress belt may be slipped. Before sewing the pocket front to the back, you will need to stitch on the trim. You may want a little ruffle, or some rickrack, or bias binding. If the pocket is being made of plain material, you may want to embroider a kitten, a flower, or perhaps, the child's name or her initial (figure 4). 357 figure 5 figure 6 Gather in the fullness of the pocket front and stitch across the gather line on the machine. If you have a ruffle, you will want to gather along just under the ruffle (figure 5). If you have a bias binding, you will want to gather in the fullness at the top of the pocket and then bind it (figure 6). Now baste the pocket front to the pocket back along the sides and across the bottom. Be sure that the right side of the pocket front is placed by the side of the pocket on which the tabs are sewed. Now machine stitch all along the sides and bottom and turn. - f ' Maude Rubin Its old log cabin pattern like a book Tells of another era, a homespun day, Each narrow strip a chapter, a flashback look At a time of nothing-wasted-or-thrown-away. Grandmother's fingers sewed these woolen strips Of somber gray and black, teal-blue and brown, Let her silver-flashing needle make back trips To double-stitch the seams. Yet she laid work down To search for brighter colors, to intersperse Their jewel-tints among these quiet tones Till, like a brief and singing bit of verse — Bright as an autumn leaf among gray stones — Is this strip of turkey-red, this square of yellow, This home-dyed green as bright as a rain-washed willow! 358 a* fl SS Dorothy Dean Yancey, Blackfoot, Idaho, served as quilting chairman for the Blackfoot Fourth Ward for ten years. Devoted and encouraging in her leadership, she has helped to develop many expert quilters. She also makes rugs, dolls, pillows, pillowcases, needlecraft pictures, and afghans. Mrs. Yancey has served as ward organist and has been a visiting teacher for more than fifty years. She is the mother of seventeen children, fifteen of them living, and has fifty-seven grandchildren and thirty-seven great-grandchildren. Florence Wells Dudley, Charlottesville, Virginia, has been making quilts and numerous other handicraft articles for Relief Society ever since the branch was organized in 1944. She was first counselor to the first branch Relief Society president, and has served for many years as a visiting teacher. Her quilts are unique in design and exquisite in workmanship. Mrs. Dudley has nine children, twenty-seven grandchildren and fourteen great-grandchildren. At eighty-three years of age, she is busy, happy, and useful. 4 x. ' a = aks orn a. Oe, « r7 yi we ' 2 Gethin 3 cog FMS entire 7 @ "I won't be able to wear it, Mum—the bodice is ruined!" Celia held up the dress for her. Mother's inspection, her usually bright face clouded with dismay. "Who would have thought that a splash of orangeade would leave such a stubborn stain?" "Couldn't you wear your green frock tomorrow?" Mrs. Roberts asked, soothingly. '"'None of your friends will be at the dance. No one would recognize it." Celia sat down at the breakfast table, and dug, impatiently, into the grapefruit before her. "Oh, Mum! It is_ positively dated. Brian wouldn't think much of me in that." "T don't think a lot of hin, if that is the impression he gives his girl friends." Jeff slipped into the chair beside his sister, comparing his watch with the kitchen clock. A2iL Bs Nita Ellis Penarth, Glamorgan, South Wales "That green thing's nice. It suits you." »Celia's blue eyes grew mutinous, and her mother interposed quickly. '"'Give a call to Bob, dear. He'll be late for school." Celia's uncertain temper was never far below the surface, she thought. But she was a redhead, like her father, with his loving but fiery disposition. Only persistent and prayerful effort would enable her to control it. In time, she would succeed, just as David had. She was glad that he had gone off early this morning. He disliked to hear the children bickering, and it was important that he should not be worried today. If this deal didn't go through. She tried to shake off the sudden despondency, remembering all the unexpected expenses; the need for a new motor scythe, and the re- 361 MAY 1965 pair bill for the station wagon, the strain on David's face, after an evening spent in worried calculations. There were bills that must be settled by the end of the month, and it was the 20th, already. The 20th! The hand slicing bread tensed and stopped. Unseeingly, she stared through the window at the lovely, sunlit garden. It was their wedding anniversary. And they had both forgotten all about it! ""'Mum—remember that pattern I bought last week? It's so simple that if you didn't mind slipping out to buy that blue silk I showed you in Cooper's window, you could make a frock by tomorrow." Celia spoke pleadingly, one slim hand on the doorknob. 'You know how quick you are!"' "And you know how busy she is," countered young Bob, munching steadily through his bowl of cereal. "You ought to make your own dress, Cil."' JEFF laughed. "You might as well ask her to cook her own meals." "Boys — boys!" Mrs. Roberts prayed for the inward peace so necessary to manage this temperamental family of hers. 'Be fair to your sister. She works hard in the garden, and does her share when it comes to redecorating." "But those are men's jobs." Jeff sounded quite concerned. "How will she manage, when she marries?" This time Celia could not restrain her annoyance. 'No wonder Lucy had a quarrel with you. She's better off, if you ask me." "T didn't ask you!" Jeff's reply was ominously quiet. 362 They were at it again. Mrs. Roberts ran a hand over her forehead. "Celia, you'll miss your train. If I get that material and make the frock, you'll have to pay for it."' Celia had been overspending since she had become friendly with Brian. If only she could come to realize that Philip, her old boy friend, was the one for her. He had such a steadying influence, and Celia needed someone like that. "Bless you, Mummy dear—and thanks."" Temper was forgotten as quickly as it had arisen. "I'll pay you back—with interest." She waved a grateful hand. "Bye now!" Then she was gone—a whirl of navy skirt, lemon sweater, and bronze fall of bobbing hair, with a crimson and orange daubed canvas beneath one arm. "You know what?" asked Bob, eating egg and bacon with enthusiasm, "Cil will end up as one of those artists who live in a garret, with a candle and no food." "Not on your life!" Jeff stood up, a tall, dark boy, with an attractive smile. "'She's got enough sense to stay at home and let Mum look after her." He looked tired. He had been brooding about that break with Lucy. A pity! She was a sweet girl. Mi rs. Roberts inspected her firstborn with the wistful glance of a mother, who, powerless to help, has to watch her dear ones suffering the hurts of adolescence. "How about asking Pete over for the week end?" she suggested. "M-mm. I'll ring him." She brushed his jacket, wishing he wasn't so uncommunicative. "Thanks, Mum." He gave her his slow, sweet smile as he left for work. Now, only Bob remained to be seen off. He had always been the easiest of the three. "Mitzi should have her pups any time, now," he remarked, stuffing books into his satchel. "IT wonder how many she'll have?" his mother replied absently, holding out his blazer. "Bob—your arms are too long for the sleeves."' "T'll need a new one, if they make me a prefect. The list'll be read out today." She hugged him. "If they do, I'll bake a cake, a special 'prefect' one. Daddy and I can share it. We've been married twenty years today." "Twenty years!" Bob's exclamation held a touch of awe. "Wow!'' Then he, too, was gone, and she was left with a pile of washing-up. SHE worked deftly, restoring gleaming order to her big, whitepainted kitchen, with its shining brasses, fragrant potted plants and colorful rugs—the heart of the house, this room, a place for creation and living. Here the family ate together, talked together, prayed together. Here, in the sunny window alcove, she had spent patient hours trying to teach Celia to sew. The girl disliked it as much as she disliked cooking. But she showed so much talent in other skills that her mother had given up the instruction. She had worried about it, but David had laughed at her. "You do too much for the children. Leave them to find their own way THE ANNIVERSARY —make their mistakes. They'll learn quicker that way." Dear Dave! He would be so self-reproachful at the thought of forgetting their anniversary. But with so many things going wrong, and working as hard as two men on the small, mixed farm, it was little wonder that even such a special date should have eluded him. If he managed to secure that large order from the city firm, it would boost his morale, quite apart from straightening out their financial tangles. Maybe they would be able to manage new covers for the living room. The old ones had been washed and mended so often that they depressed her. She whisked around the bedrooms, thinking she must hurry now—shopping this morning— the frock this afternoon. A batch of cooking and more frock in the evening. So much for a wedding anniversary! It was just as she finished cutting out the dress that the phone rang. It was_ her husband. "'Dave!"' she said conscious of the thrill of pleasure, which, even after all these years, always ran through her when she heard his voice. '"'You've got that order—I just know you have!" "Right the first time, pet.'' He sounded himself again, free from the anxiety that had been fretting him. "And that's not all. Have you remembered what I've remembered?" SHE laughed softly, wishing she could see his face. "Of course. I'm going to make a cake." "Not at the moment, my lovely Jean. We're going to spend 363 MAY 1965 some money on ourselves—just you and me." His tone was wheedling, reminding her of Celia, but with David's, there was an underlying note of authority. "Listen carefully, Jean. Not coming home tonight." "Dave!"" She was aghast. He chuckled. "That's just the way I wanted you to say it. Proves-you still love me!" '"'Dave—you're not serious." "O. K. You can enlarge on that, later, surrounded by luxury. I've a surprise for you. You're coming to town by the 5:30 train. I'll meet you at the station. I've booked a room for two nights at a hotel." "How wonderful. But. "T haven't finished. I've taken seats for the ballet this evening and a play for tomorrow." With obvious enjoyment, he ended with "How about that, eh?' "T can't believe it, Dave."' She was at a loss for words. He had fixed everything. However was she going to explain that she was overwhelmed with work at home? "Tt'll do the children good to look after things for a week end. You wait on them far too much." She was thinking rapidly. Husband or children. Who should come first? Celia's frock—cooking —prefect cake—Pete staying for the week end—and Mitzi's pups. Celia couldn't cook and Celia couldn't sew. None of them knew a thing about midwifery. "Darling!" David's voice came with a note of acute disappointment. '"You're not trying to think up an excuse, are you? Not on our anniversary." There were sudden tears in Jean's eyes. "'No," she said. "I'm just overcome. Nothing in the I'm 39 364 _do them yourself." world will stop me from coming." OF course Dave came first. She had loved him for a long time before she knew the children. She looked at the clock. Just two hours left for everything. Clothes? She had the new dress bought a few weeks before for a niece's wedding, and her suit was just back from the cleaners. The cream hat would match nicely, with a ribbon band, instead of the veiling. She had all she needed. What a relief! She rang up to order a taxi and food from three local shops. Pete's appetite was as big as Jeff's. Celia would just have to > manage the cooking. Bob came home five minutes before the taxi, and she used the time to explain what had happened, as she packed her overnight case. He stared at her. "But, Mum! I've brought all my muddy football things home. There's a big match tomorrow, and they must be clean.": "Ask Celia to wash them—or How badly had she reared her children that they couldn't wash their own clothes. She felt an acute pang of guilt. Celia arrived, breathless and windswept, as Jean was stepping into the taxi. '"Mum—wherever are you going?" "To town, with Daddy, for two nights. I know it's unexpected, and I'm sorry, but you'll just have to manage. I've left instructions about the cooking—and the frock is cut out. All you've got to do is to follow the pattern directions carefully." "Mum!" Celia sounded desper- te. "You know that I couldn't possibly make the frock—or cook for a whole week end. You can't go!" "I can, you know—and I am," her mother told her firmly. "You're not babies, Celia. Which reminds me—if Mitzi seems in trouble, call the vet. Get Lindy Curtis to help you with the frock. She always makes her own." "'She's in Spain, with her grandmother." "For goodness sake!" She tried to think of some other advice. Another, minute and she would miss that train. '"'Eat out of cans, and ask Brian to take you somewhere else, where a new frock won't matter. Now I'm off! Address and phone number, on the _hall table—to be used only in case of illness."' The taxi slid forward. What a fuss. How wrong she had been in cosseting the family—in making them feel so dependent on her. Dave was right. They must learn by their own efforts—even if they did make a mess, at first. It had taken a twentieth wedding anniversary to convince her. She tried to put them out of her mind. Only Dave must matter, for this week end. But she couldn't help feeling mean—deserting them without notice. Yet how much meaner it would have been, to disappoint her husband. DvRING an interval at the ballet that evening, she glanced at Dave with her heart full of tenderness. How dear he was to her, his fair head bent over his program, his lean, muscled strength at ease for once. She must never allow herself to forget that she was a wife as well as a mother. THE ANNIVERSARY Never once did she mention the children; but her thoughts refused to be controlled. Was it wrong to have left little Mitzi to the doubtful care of teenagers? Would Celia burn the meat? Would she, perhaps, decide to ask a friend to lend her a frock? "You know," Dave remarked, as they were dressing for the theater, "you're still thinking about the children. Why not ring them up, and put your mind at rest?" "No!"' She hesitated. "No— they have to learn to stand on their own feet."' She would not admit how badly she longed to contact them. This must surely be the hardest thing for a mother to do—to let her children grow away from her, for' their own sakes. She had been selfish in not realizing it before. The time spent with David was wonderful. Before it drew to a close, he put an arm around her, drawing her close. "Thank you," he said, quietly, "for being—yjust my Jean." They exchanged smiles with perfect understanding. As they drove home from the station, between the peaceful, evening-shadowed fields, Jean, pleasantly rested, wondered how long such a blissful state of mind would last. She envisaged an untidy house, full of boisterous youth and spoiled food. Bob was the first to see his parents leaving the taxi at the gate and came bounding out. "Mum—AMitzi's had three pups. We helped her!" "You did?" She took a deep breath and went inside. Everything was immaculate, the table laid daintily for supper with a nicely cooked joint of 365 MAY 1965 lamb, decorated with parsley, an attractively arranged salad, a golden crusted fruit pie, and a jug of thick cream. "Bob," she asked, Celia?" "Gone to meet Phil. She stayed at his house last night, and he's bringing his parents over to supper. They're going to ask you if they can be engaged." ''where's WEAN sat down suddenly. 'Dave, did you hear that?" He had just brought in the suitcases, and he gave his deep chuckle. "You'll be telling us next that Jeff has made it up with Lucy." 'He has."' Bob grinned all over his rosy, freckled face. "Lucy has been looking after us. How do you think we would have got by, if I hadn't sent for her?" ""You—what?" his mother asked, faintly. "She was the only person I could think of who could cook. When Celia rang Brian to say she couldn't go to the dance because she hadn't a frock, he was annoyed. Cil got mad, and in the middle of it all, Jeff and Pete came in, and said that Phil had run into a car. Celia went white, dropped the phone and ran out. Next thing we knew, she rang to say she was keeping Phil's mother company, until they sent Phil home from the hospital, and that she and Phil had made it up, and wanted to be engaged."' "What happened _ to then?" "Hurt his arm, I think—can't be anything much, if they're bringing him in to supper. Anyway, I was on my own, after Pete and Jeff went out, and I got awPhil, 366 ful hungry. I made a mess of my football shorts—you never said anything about using hot water. So I rang Lucy. She came round right away, washed my things, and cooked us a super meal." "T like that girl so much," murmured Jean, with warm appreciation. "What then, Bob?" "Well, when Jeff came back and saw her, he gave a big whoop, and picked her right up in his arms." Bob looked confidentially into his mother's face. "You know what? I think they're all nuts!" Jean stole a glance at Dave. His eyes were fairly dancing. But all he said was, "See what I mean?" Bob was still chatting. He caught her arm. ''Lucy's made a chocolate cake. Cil helped. It's to celebrate my being made a prefect; and Cil and Phil getting engaged, if you'll let them; and you and Daddy having an anniversary; and—and Mitzi having pups," he ended triumphantly. Jean threw an arm around him, and went on, "and Jeff and Lucy making up their quarrel, and Daddy getting a great big order and buying new covers for the chairs. This is going to be a wonderful party!" "'New covers," repeated Bob, excitedly. ''Well, we must be very rich!" Through the window Jean watched a laughing group of lovely young people coming to the house. Her look embraced them all with a smile of pure content. Holding her husband's arm, she answered the question in the boy's clear eyes. "Yes, Bob," she said, joyously. ""Oh, yes, Bob, we are!" Mabel Harmer @ Before they had finished breakfast the next morning Uncle Frederick said, '"Now that I have this nice, big car' He waited for the laughter to subside, and then went on. "Anyway, it will hold the five of us, or so I think. We can try it out, and then you must all go with me on some trips around the countryside. We should visit Garmish and Munich and "Just a minute!" cried Maria. "You forget that I am a working girl, We don't just run off with visiting uncles whenever we take a notion. That is, we don't go and keep our jobs." *""And I must become a working girl as fast as I can," said Elsa. "As you know, I just barely had enough money to bring me back here." "Come now. You can go for a Chapter 8 (Conclusion), week, anyway," her uncle insisted. "You will not starve, nor do without any real necessities in that time. And the trip will cost you nothing. You, Maria, can get a week's vacation, surely." "Yes, perhaps I can. And it would be wonderful to have such a pleasant trip." "Good. Just as soon as you can get away we will start off on a holiday. Perhaps we will go over into Austria. As far as Innsbruck, anyway. Why, we can do that in a single day. Now, it is all arranged." He looked at them all happily. "Tt is all arranged as far as you and I are concerned," laughed Maria. 'Herr Klopfer, my employer, may take quite a different view. Anyway, we shall see. I'll ask this very day." "If we do go," said Elsa, '"'it 367 MAY 1965 should be right away, so that I can get to work as soon as possible. But, as you say, a week probably won't make too much difference." She wanted to go out that very day and start looking for work, but her mother wouldn't hear of it. 'You are entitled to one day at home," she said, "after so long an absence. If not, I am entitled to have you here one day, at any rate." Elsa agreed, and when Maria returned from work that evening, she said, "Herr Klopfer will let me go if I can get someone to work in my place. This is the busy season in the gift shop, of course, with all of the tourists coming through now. Vacation time for us is in the late fall and winter when everyone else stays at home." "That problem will be an easy one to solve," said Elsa. "I can take your place. I've had all the traveling and vacation that is coming to me. Besides, I know the shop and can do much better than anyone else. Tell Herr Klopfer that I'll report to work Monday morning." WAHEN Maria started to protest, her mother said firmly, "I think Elsa is right. Perhaps if she goes back to work, Herr Klopfer will decide he can use the two of you. Besides," she added with a twinkle in her eyes, "think how much more comfortable I shall be traveling with only two of us in that small back seat." It was finally agreed that the others would leave on the following Monday, and that Elsa would stay at home and take over the work in the gift shop. 368 By the time Sunday came she had been home for two days and had seen nothing of Karl. She began to suspect that his devotion was more in her mother's mind than in his heart. She strongly suspected, also, that her mother's reason for suggesting that she re-' main at home had more of a motive than merely wanting the additional room in the rear seat of the Volkswagon. They drove to church Sunday morning a few minutes early, so that Maria would be there in plenty of time to play the preliminary organ music. Karl met them in the foyer. His greeting was aS warm as anyone could wish, although he seemed just as much pleased to meet the aunt and uncle as he was to see her again. He was now in the branch presidency, he explained, and would be calling upon her right away to give her a choice of any two or three jobs that she might like. Before Elsa could answer, her mother said, "You must come home with us to dinner today. We want you to get acquainted with our folks from America." Elsa blushed faintly. Hadn't he just made it plain that he would be calling only in the interest of Church service? Why did her mother have to throw her at his head at every opportunity? As they walked into the chapel and took their seats, her mother whispered, "You are very lucky that he has not found another girl. There are plenty who have been after him."' "It is possible that he doesn't want a steady girl friend, you know," Elsa replied. "Not every young man does." "Oh, no,"' her mother protested. "That is not at all likely. He is doing very well in his work. He has even bought a car from a young man who was returning to America." Maria started to play the organ and Elsa said no more. What was the use, anyway? She couldn't convince her mother. She would have to show Karl herself that she hadn't come back mainly to try and capture him. Arer church her mother said to Karl, "Perhaps you will bring Elsa in your car. The rest of us can squeeze in with Frederick." "With pleasure," he replied. "I shall be delayed here for a few minutes on some affairs for the branch. You will not mind the wait?" he asked Elsa. She started to say that, as long as they had managed to squeeze in to come to church, she thought they could probably get back the same way. But some of her friends claimed her attention to welcome her back home, and by the time she was free again the family had driven away. There was nothing to do now but wait, unless she started out to walk, and that would be much too obvious. When Karl was finally through, he hurried over and said, "I am so sorry to keep you waiting. There is always some little matter that needs attention. The branch is growing fast—as I suppose you noticed." "I did indeed. So fast that I am beginning to wonder if [ needed to come back, after all." "Was that the only reason you came?" he asked, giving her a quizzical look. THE TURN OF THE WHEEL She blushed faintly. "That was the main reason. At least, so I thought. Of course, there were some others."' "I hope so," he said simply, taking her arm and leading her to the car. At the house they found a very happy group. Mother Breinholt had prepared the Sunday dinner that Elsa remembered best. Not elaborate, since most of it had been done the day before, but substantial and very good. Uncle Frederick at once set about finding out all he could of Karl's work, both at his business and in the branch. Then he began telling him how much better he could do in America. "We have a fine farm—all our own," he said. 'Our boys have all been to universities and have professions. If they had lived here it would have been just ordinary jobs." "Not so," interrupted Aunt Edith. "Our boys would have done well anywhere." "Indeed, yes!" added Sister Breinholt sharply. ''Anyone with ambition can do just as well here as anywhere. You forget that Germany isn't what it was forty years ago. Why do you suppose that Elsa came back again?" Before he could answer, and perhaps add to her embarrassment, Elsa quickly replied, "Because I felt that my place was here. It was not a matter of making money. Although, even at that I am not at all sure but what I could do just as well here as in America." "Ja, ja!' exclaimed Uncle Frederick with a chuckle. "So we will let you young people stay right here. I will say no more." 369 MAY 1965 From the look on her mother's face, Elsa was sure that it was just as well. T Hey had a pleasant afternoon, and when it was time to réturn to church for the evening service, Karl said, "'Will you play the organ tonight? Maria has done double duty all this time. I'm sure that she would like a chance to sit down in the congregation once more." Both sisters agreed and Elsa took her place at the organ. She touched the keys lovingly. For some reason or other, it seemed to bring back to her, more than anything else, the great love she had for the old familar things and places. Purposely she _ played "The Happy Wanderer."' Yes, the wanderer was home again and she was happy. She was also deeply content, and for that she was grateful. Happiness and contentment were rare treasures in anyone's life, sometimes purchased dearly. Always to be guarded zealously. The two speakers of the evening were recent converts, a man and his wife. Elsa felt that their deep joy was a reflection of her own. After the service the rest of the family drove home again with Uncle Frederick, but Karl took Elsa for a ride along the river on the opposite side from the castle. The great red brick battlements and towers were brilliant under floodlights, and it made a magnificent picture on the dark green of the hills. "Did you ever see anything so beautiful in America?" asked Karl. 370 "Well, yes—to tell the truth, I did. The temple in Salt Lake City, lighted up at night, is the most inspiring sight I have ever seen, or ever expect to see. Naturally, there is a vast difference." "Then some day you shall go back. But just long enough to have another look. In the meantime, you must make do with our castle."' "With the greatest of pleasure. Anyway, as far as I know, there isn't a single real castle in all of the United States." Later she was to ponder his words, inferring that she might go back again some day for a visit. Was it a promise—of sorts? Early the next morning she bade goodbye to the others as they set out for their holiday. She would very much have liked to go. Garmish, Innsbruck—perhaps Salzburg, were magic names that she would have loved to make realities. But she quickly thrust such "selfish" thoughts aside. Her travels were over for the time. She must get to work. It was fun to walk through Bismarkplatz again—to see and smell the lovely flowers. As she went down Hauptstrasse her first thoughts flew back to that morning, more than a year ago, when she had met the tall American soldier—met him so violently indeed that the Hoop-la had been knocked to the pavement and broken. Art the gift shop Herr Klopfer was delighted to see her again. "IT knew all the time that you would be back," he beamed. ''No one can sell gifts as you can. You have a real love for the beautiful."' "Thank you very much," she replied. "I am surely glad to be back. If only for this week." "Nein!" he cried. 'Now that I have both you and Maria it is time for me to take a vacation. For fifteen years now I have been at this shop day and night, ex- _ cept on Sundays and _ holidays. Now it is my turn to play. Frau Klopfer and I will go to the Land of the Midnight Sun. Is that not a wonderful idea?" "It is, indeed," agreed Elsa. "Quite as wonderful for me as for you." She was grateful that she was sure now of work for at least a month. That would give her ample time to look around and find something more permanent. When she left the shop that evening Karl was waiting outside in his red Volkswagon. Her face lighted up. 'What a nice surprise!" she exclaimed. "Now I shan't have to punish my aching feet any longer but can ride home like a queen." "But we are not going home," he answered, "I have a lunch packed. We are going up to Konigstuhl. There is something I wish you to see." "Good! It will be wonderful to see my valley again from the top of Konigstuhl—especially on this lovely summer evening." They parked the car and took the funicular railroad up to the top. Then they walked along a path to a spot that afforded a wonderful view of the valley and the Neckar River below. When they came to a grassy knoll, Karl spread out the blanket he had carried and put down the lunch basket. | "IT hope this will be enough," THE TURN OF THE WHEEL he said. "I remember that your mother packed twice as much for our last picnic up here." "And we probably carried half of it back down again," smiled Elsa. "Yes, I am sure that this will do."' T HEY ate heartily and there was none left this time to carry back. "Now, I have something else to show you," said Karl, rising and helping Elsa to her feet. They walked along the path around a bend and there, close by the side of the path, was a small pile of rocks. "See," he pointed. "Our monument." "But! How has it lasted all these months?' she gasped in surprise. "Surely small boys have been along to toss them down hill?" "A few," he admitted. "Once in awhile I have had to rebuild. But in the main, it is still here. It marks the spot where I first fell in love with you." He took hold of her hand. 'Shall I leave it here—or join the small boys and scatter the rocks on the hillside?" "Oh, yes, Karl! Leave it by all means!" He put an arm around her and drew her close. '""There will be a group going to the temple at Berne within a few weeks. I have been there once. It is very lovely against the setting of pines. Shall we go? You will not find it so large and magnificent perhaps as the one in Salt Lake City." "No," she smiled happily. "But this one is ours. This is where I want to go." She looked up into his eyes again and added, "And I want to go with you." 371 Magazine Honor Roll for 1964 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp Statistics on the number of subscribers to The Relief Society Magazine take on meaning as letters come constantly to the General Board from subscribers who express appreciation for what the contents of the Magazine mean to them. Every phase of a woman's life which the General Board seeks to strengthen through the pages of the Magazine, comes in for praiseworthy comment. The spiritual, intellectual, practical, and beautifying values of articles receive individual commendation. In addition, the worth of the Magazine as a proselyting and. Fellowshipping means is hailed. In the stakes and missions, past issues of the Magazine have been gathered and distributed to nonsubscribers and nonmembers as an inviting introduction to the world-wide sisterhood, with excellent results. It is well to reflect that behind every subscriber is the faithful and devoted work of a Relief Society Magazine representative and the encouraging guidance of a Relief Society president in the wards, stakes, missions, and on the General Board. President Spafford, who was the editor of the Magazine from 1937 to 1945, as the General Manager, keeps a careful watchcare over all phases of the Magazine-production from the initial planning to the colorful printed Magazine. The devotion on the part of the editorial staff is dedicated as is the devotion of the more than 6,800 Magazine representatives in the Church who go in good and bad weather as faithful emissaries of the Relief Society to spread the work of Relief Society through the printed word. The Magazine representatives go both to the crowded city dweller and to the lonely outpost of the bush. They serve in such places as New York and London, to the wives of servicement in Okinawa, Germany, Spain, and elsewhere, and to South Africa. The Magazine is welcomed by the elderly as well as by the young mother surrounded by her growing children, by the bride, and by the expert housekeeper. Relief Society gathers in the womanhood of the Church and sends back to the ever-increasing number of English-reading members words of instruction, encouragement, enjoyment, and love through The Relief Society Magazine. 372 O° One can Measure the j as they Place The j e Clief Societ ©N—testify to the to 4Ssisting in [ important and j so - €y give to this vita! Stake South Los Beles ( alifornia) 216 agazine Represent lve Dona Osborn Ward South Gate Ward, Sout Los (4) ornburgh Mission Branch Fergus Fal Branch _ 0% Dakota District, North Centra] States ISsion agazine "epresentative — mye Vol recht Ten Highest Percentages In Stakes SS216___ ©na Osbo a194 Mary |. Hebner.137. Dythe M. Fairba ks ie ae 137. Eloise Leavitt a a130.. Alice Bundies owe 129. Virginia F Nichols Sydney 50 East128. Catherine Jean Jeffree 4n Diego —<—_ a126 Lorraine E. Sharpe > as 125 Vera M. Williams. I 123 Vil Page 373 MAY 1965 Missions Achieving Ten Highest Percentages Western States 2 0:.000--. S-s---. 112 Carrell Thorpe Cumorah, 2 0..-.--22--22200020+ne111 Lu Seba Peterson North Central States -._——110 Carmen Dahlgren Canadian 2 cccccccenceeeeseeesnncces 107 Elna M. Adamson Western Canadian --.-pecenacal 104 Vera Jean Noyes Jones Northern States 0 0:00cecceeeeeoe 100 Ira Mae Palmer Eastern Atlantic States — 0000.00.100 Dorothy B. Burton Calliformia' 20cccipesssecececesnsennnees 98 Midene McKay Anderson Central States 000.:.2.2ceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 98 Norma Furnell West Central States 2..000000000.000 eee. 96 Lois Montague Ten Stakes With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. Subscriptions South Los Angeles 1683 Ensign Glendale 1468 Bonneville Huntington Park 1336 Burley Mesa 116514 Grant Las Vegas 1162 San Diego No. Subscriptions 1072 1027 1000 1000 995 Ten Missions With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. Subscriptions East Central States 1259 Northwestern States New England 959 Canadian Gulf States 821 Northern States Eastern Atlantic 757 Florida North Central States 719 West Central States Stakes in Which All Wards Received 100% or Over 374 FU G100010) | creZola Ricks Bonneville | 00.00.22000000220. Lececceeececeeeee eeeGrace B. Larsen Brigham City 2..00000000000 2-22ceecceeceeeeeeeeHilda R. Forrest |S) (-)Virginia F. Nichols Canoga Park.0 0000.00.2ccccccceeceeeceeeeeee eeeJeanine D. Hansen East Idaho Falls _..020000000 0000200000Sarah Owens East Mesa 0.0.0..00000000000b cece ceeecee cee eeneeneee eeElva M. Brown East Phoenix _..0..000000.0000000000000ccceeee eee e eeeGeneva Cluff FONGIGM) 2 see ecnceeesaPearl L. Whitney Glendale ee eeEdythe M. Fairbanks O00::) reViola G. Johnson OOJane Henry aRoene Boulter Huntington Park 002.222..2222..2-2--.2-----Mary L. Hebner Inglewood 0..00 ccccesseeeeeeeneeenenesEdith Pew Kansas City 22000.0.2 0002.00ccccecceneeceeeeeeeeeeeeeVenna T. Witbeck Las Vegas 02..200ccoecceeceeeecececeseeeeeeesEloise Leavitt bol)Luella Birrell Long Beach Erma G. Halls Mesa 0--2.-eee eee ceesensi sasuateneeeenseeealJulia Kerby Millcreek 0 2 0-2ceeeeesedeeeeeeceeeeeeeeesMartha J. H. Matern Monument Park eeceesescenalllRuth B. Parkinson Mt. Olympus o. Oo. Ce eee eee eeeAnn Goldthorpe Mt. Rubidoux 0000.00 aMary U. Tiffany Napa ae CllLa Vaun L. Allen No. Subscriptions 699 627 610 594 533 North Pocatello North Tooele semen cn nec cen cee rnc ee eee ener eee Oakland-Berkeley - -.---------------" Orange County MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1964 Sara Fisher Mildred Sagers La Von B. Johnson Imogene Allred Palmyra. ---2------2-coeeeer centerEleanor D. Olsen ParleyS ---c2c-c-c sce eetLucille L. Taylor Phoenix West -------------e Dianne E. Johns Rigby -----oc ccconseceranecesnnnerceccecensnecenensncosessOra Stallings St. Joseph ---------c---cecec eerRuth Marshall San Diego East Scottsdale -- Seattle ---------te-cecerce eset ete Shelley -..-..--------- South Cottonwood -------------- South Idaho Falls -----------------077 South Los Angeles ------------------077 South Salt Lake Wells ----—------- West Sharon Whittier --..---- Wilford -------- Woodruff ----- HONOR ROLL — STAKES BY PERCENTAGES — 1964 Lorraine E. Sharpe Anna Lee Gooch Dorothy C. Newman June L. Walton Anna V. Lindman Alice Moss Donna Osborn Hannah Dietrich Gertrude S. Fullmer Ethel S. Taylor Beulah D. Mickel Lila F. Madsen Gladys K. Groll South Los Angeles 216 Huntington Park Glendale Las Vegas Mojave Burley Sydney San Diego East Florida » Chicago Phoenix West Modesto Inglewood Long Beach Phoenix North South Idaho Falls Whittier Cumorah East Mesa Moapa Maricopa San Diego Monument Park Palomar Ammon Rexburg North Box Elder Wichita Ensign Woodruff 194 — 137 137 130 129 128 126 125 123 122 121 119 119 119 118 118 117 117 117 117 116 116 116 116 116 115 115 115 115 Redondo 114 Orange County Norwalk 114 Mt. Rubidoux Grand Junction 114 Grant American Falls 113 West Utah Santa Monica 113 North Pocatello Brigham City 113 Boston Liberty 113 Napa Cassia 113 Taber Toronto 113 East Idaho Falls East Phoenix 113 Calgary St. Joseph 113 Palmyra Phoenix 113 San Joaquin Rigby 113 Grand Coulee Southern Arizona 112 Juarez Mt. Graham 112 East Long Beach Oakland-Berkeley 112 Cannon Portland 12 Lost River St. Louis 112 Shelley Nyssa 111 Sharon Oquirrh 111 Torrance San Fernando 111 Canoga Park Bonneville 111 Salmon River Alameda 111 Scottsdale Wells 111 Granite Milwaukee 110 Pomona Roy 110 Riverdale Monterey Bay 110 Mesa Pocatello 110 Minidoka South Salt Lake 110 Zion Park San Jose 110 Granger MAY 1965 Las Vegas North Idaho Falls Provo Twin Falls Big Horn Tucson West Covina Granger North Temple View Juab North Sacramento Garden Grove New York North Tooele West Boise St. George East Seattle N. Columbia River East Rigby Norfolk Bountiful East Washington Dallas Reno North Malad Lake View Ashley Millcreek El Paso Sevier Highland Potomac St. George Taylor Bear River Columbia River Star Valley Weber Heights Panguitch Kansas City South Cottonwood West Sharon Wilford Mt. Olympus East Los Angeles Concord Yellowstone Parleys Philadelphia Tacoma 376 106 106 106 106 106 106 106 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 102 102 102 102 102 102 Burbank Edmonton Union East Sharon Uvada Boise Redwood Reno South Summit Mt. Jordan Cedar Granite Park Portneuf Millard St. Johns Springville Emigration San Juan Billings Snowflake Santa Barbara Park Denver Holladay San Diego South Riverton Wind River Franklin Mesa South San Leandro South Bear River Box Elder Puget Sound Casper East Jordan Teton Alaska Mt. Logan Yuma East Millcreek North Idaho Falls Riverside Bannock Kolob South Box Elder New Orleans San Mateo North Davis Santa Ana Glasgow 102 102 102 102 102 102 102 102 101 101 101 101 101 101 101 101 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 97 | 97 97 97 Mt. Ogden Oneida Farr West North Rexburg West Pocatello Great Falls New Jersey Sandy Santa Rosa Sugar House Nampa Timpanogos Beaver Denver South Pasadena Tooele Albuquerque Olympus North Jordan Orlando Cheyenne Ogden North Carbon North Seattle Humboldt San Bernardino Sacramento Idaho Spanish Fork Grantsville San Francisco Logan Lyman San Luis Obispo South Blackfoot Blackfoot Canyon Rim Rose Park Denver West Raft River Walnut Creek Alberta East Cache Taylorsville Weiser Gridley Salt Lake Covina Portland West San Jose West 97 97 Atlanta Pikes Peak American Fork Chicago South Oklahoma Nebo Weber West Jordan Roosevelt Bountiful South Seattle East Monument Pk. West 91 East Pocatello Virginia Kearns North Wayne Deseret Cache South Davis Klamath Los Angeles Tulsa East Provo Murray Murray South Richland Valley View Cascade Hamilton Bear Lake Butler Fresno Winder Montpelier Raleigh Gooding Lethbridge Honolulu Alpine Bakersfield Hillside Wasatch Brisbane Hyrum 'Tempe North Sevier Melbourne Santaquin-Tintic Fresno East Nevada 91 91 90 90 90 90 Utah Kaysville Moroni Detroit Layton Clearfield Reseda South Sevier Benson Carbon Cottonwood East Ogden Bountiful North Lansing Young Duchesne Summit Uintah San Luis Smithfield Clearfield Lorin Farr Butte Lake Mead Kanab Auckland Willamette Washington Terrace Palo Alto Missoula Minnesota American River Davis University West Redding Macon Yakima Lehi London Ben Lomond North Weber Corvallis Winter Quarters South Sanpete North Carolina Shreveport Miami Morgan Salem Hayward MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1964 87 87 87 87 87 87 86 86 86 86 86 86 Kearns 19 Midvale 19 Parowan 719 Blaine 719 Orem West 719 Spokane 19 Bountiful 17 Columbus 17 Beaumont 717 Oahu 17 Pioneer T7 South Carolina 717 Gunnison 77 North Sanpete 76 Manchester 716 Medford 716 Garfield 75 Santa Maria 75 Tampa 14 Vancouver 14 Craig 714 - South Ogden 713 Ben Lomond South 73 Emery 13 Fort Wayne 73 Hunter 713 Orem q2 Lewiston 712 Coeur d'Alene 70 Indianapolis 710 Cleveland 69 South Carolina West 69 Pearl Harbor 69 Greensboro 69 Cedar West 68 Leicester 68 Flagstaff 67 Cincinnati 66 Houston 66 Illinois 65 San Antonio 64 Corpus Christi 61 Leeds 59 Sandy East 50 Hawkes Bay 35 Limited Participation in University Campus Stakes 377 378 Relief Society Alameda Alaska Alberta Albuquerque Alpine American Falls American Fork American River Ammon Ashley Atlanta Auckland Bakersfield Bannock Bear Lake Bear River Beaumont Beaver Ben Lomond Benson Big Horn Billings Blackfoot Blaine Boise Bonneville Boston Bountiful Bountiful East Bountiful North Bountiful South Enrol! Ment 482 260 793 601 674 395 654 857 530 569 271 425 628 370 507 533 244 553 749 669 910 352 753 294 742 926 327 749 422 667 710 Subscriptions No. 5323 255 738 576 595 448 5973 7053 612 590 248 355 554 361 451 549 188 531 608 575 961 3533 704 232 753 1027 356 579 4403 569 645 Pct. 111 98 93 96 88 113 91 82 116 104 92 84 88 98 89 103 77 96 81 86 106 100 94 79 102 111 109 77 104 85 91 STAKES ON HONOR ROLL—1964 Magazine Representative Rosalie W. Taylor Mariam D. Johnson Viola B. Wynder Eddis J. Fidel Blanche D. Bennett Erminnie Johnson Ethel C. Graff Norma Pezely Zola Ricks Barsalena R. Hatch Barbara H. Blake Catharine M. Douglas June Davies Clara C. Christensen May Bowman Lottie R. Potter Hattie M. Moss Gertrude Marshall Marelda H. Cutler Arlene A. Kupfer Phyllis Borders Maude J. DeVor Janet Wray Vera E. Clifford Marion Hugentobler Grace B. Larsen Janette E. Bergman Beula Nelson Janice G. Stewart Columbia L. Argyle Colleen C. Poulsen Relief Society Duchesne East Cache East Idaho Falls East Jordan East Long Beach East Los Angeles East Mesa Fast Millcreek East Ogden East Phoenix East Pocatello East Provo East Rigby East Sharon Edmonton El Paso Emigration Ensign Farr West Florida Franklin Fresno Fresno East Garden Grove Garfield Glasgow Glendale Gooding Grand Coulee Grand Junction Granger Enroll ment 414 1020 593 502 715 737 553 645 822 587 620 693 638 764 424 525 586 934 739 626 828 424 425 502 301 109 1075 684 660 501 444 Subscriptions No. 352 948 644 493 773 754 6483 631 704 661 561 620 667 776 432 545 587 1072 7163 780 815 377 370 526 227 107 1468 606 715 569 473 Pct. 85 93 109 98 108 102 117 98 86 113 91 90 105 102 102 103 100 115 St 125 99 89 87 105 75 97 137 89 108 114 107 Magazine Representative Minnie M. Hamilton Venice S. Hill Sarah Owens LoVenna S. Cook Catherine F. Berger Fairie K. Session Elva M. Brown Doris N. Barney Katherine Eckenbrecht Geneva Cluff Jerri Sanders Eva J. Slick Myrtle Burtenshaw Lucile M. Weenig Helen Johnson Maud Taylor Bentley Sarah K. McKay Pearl L. Whitney Bertha H. Palmer Vera M. Williams Edna P. Lemmon Sarah Jean Stoker Laurine A. Ensign Aleen R. Larsen Melba Gates Jane McGibbon Edythe M. Fairbanks Viola Gold Marjie Barrus Irma Purnell Viola G. Johnson MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1964 379 Box Elder. Brigham City Brisbane Burbank Burley Butler Butte Cache Calgary Cannon Canoga Park Canyon Rim Carbon Cascade ' Casper Cassia Cedar Cheyenne Chicago Chicago South Clearfield Columbia River Columbus Concord Corvallis Cottonwood Covina Cumorah ° Dallas Davis Denver Denver South Denver West Deseret Detroit 491 516 269 698 775 630 562 710 578 551 414 953 734 373 249 401 - 427 428 337 404 707 569 328 463 239 485 662 312 592 729 426 432 519 735 507 484 584 228 711 1000 560 472 640 627 595 445 891} 6303 332 245 452 433 409 413 369 612 586 253 473 194 416 607 366 616 598 424 416 485 663 439 99 113 88 102 129 89 84 90 109. 108 108 94 86 89 98 113 101 96 123 91 87 103 77 102. 81 86 92 117 104 82 100 96 93 90 87 Cleo N. Dixon Hilda R. Forrest Elsie E. Orth | June Gardner Virginia F. Nichols Gladys R. Loveless Afton L. Whiteworth Norma J. Thompson Gwen Haycock Elsie Duehlmeier Jeanine D. Hansen Ruth Rushforth Gertrude M. McCourt Georgia M. Heiner Donna R. Thatcher Valoy Casperson Lottie T. Bladen Kathryn K. Andrews Vilda Page Doris H. Grott Ruby Taylor Agnes G. Hill Lelah De Gray Mae Annie Davis Euzell Preston Wilma P. Barr Gladys I. Barker Margaret G. Stoner Dorothy Fobes Marie S. Lloyd Katherina Belmain Carolyn R. Derrich Gay Hanson Erma E. Cropper Marlene Klaphaak Granger North Granite Granite Park Grant Grantsville Great Falls Gridley Gunnison Hamilton Hayward Highland Hillside Holladay Honolulu Humboldt Huntington Park Hyrum Idaho Idaho Falls Inglewood Juab Juarez Kanab Kansas City Kaysville Kearns Kearns North Klamath Kolob Lake Mead Lake View Lansing Las Vegas Las Vegas North Layton 573 647 673 913 598 358 862 445 401 551] - $87 1122 — 857 576 261 690 771 480 590 633 546 FF 524 587 673 536 558 247 658 608 465 443 849 746 1034 604 694 679 1000 565 345 798 341 357 436 606 989 847 509 248 1336 676 454} 625 756 574 105 438} 603 585 424 5043 222 642 511 483 378 1161 793 895 105 107 101 110 103 104 137 106 Ella H. Larson Jane Henry Lythia Street Roene Boulter Abbie K. Paskett Glenna MacDonald Vera Allred Katie Larson Evelyn Parton Esther H. Kenison Vesta E. Rockwood Ruby S. Ockey Arlene F. Dean Lois G. Weggeland Aliene N. Bloxham Mary L. Hebner Elsie B. Poppleton Elizabeth L. Hogan Verna Hoopes Edith Pew Selma Tranter Virginia B. Whetten > Vauna L. Covington Venna T. Witbeck Adelia Rushforth Fern G. Neilsen LaVeigh T. Atwood Beverly Ellis Hilda W. Cherrington Magda Potter Ethel S. Boswell Lucille Ranney Eloise Leavitt Vaun S. Klingonsmith Bernice S. Earl MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1964 380 MAY 1965 Monument Park Monument Pk. West Morgan Moroni Mt. Graham Mt. Jordan Mt. Logan Mt. Ogden Mt. Olympus Mt. Rubidoux Murray Murray South Nampa Napa Nebo Nevada New Jersey New Orleans New York Norfolk North Box Elder North Carbon North Carolina N. Columbia River North Davis North Idaho Falls North Jordan North Pocatello North Rexburg North Sacramento North Sanpete North Seattle North Sevier North Tooele North Weber 565 722 385 370 707 571 823 680 486 669 662 951 980 528 684 454 449 383 502 288 469 596 420 328 820 778 560 306 693 537 707 509 458 480 664 | 653 655 306 321 793 577 807 660 498 733 592 8493 944 575 6234 395 433 373 526 301 541 568 337 343 7973 761 536 334 672 564 538 484 401 503 539 116 91 80 87 112 101 98 97 103 110 89 89 96 109 91 87 96 97 105 105 115 95 80 105 97 98 96 109 97 105 76 95 88 105 81 Ruth B. Parkinson Faye B. Beatty Ruth Harrison Betty A. Cook Flora John Norma Erickson Elaine Passey Louise Woodland Ann Goldthorpe Mary U. Tiffany Liesel Barthel Lois Madsen Ida Cafferty LaVaun L. Allen Leona S. Crouch May Probert Beth S. Robison Dottie Wilson Margaret Bruns Lorna H. McPherson Sue F. Kapp Lue Twiddel] Eugenia S. Cochran Sarah M. Williams Helen W. Barber Thora B. Smith Melva B. Jones Sara Fisher Myrtle B. Park Kerma K. Jensen Genniel B. Watson Lillian Bulman Clarissa J. Sorensen Mildred Sagers Lola B. Venstra Potomac Provo Puget Sound Raft River Raleigh Redding Redondo Redwood Reno Reno North Reseda Rexburg Richland Rigby Riverdale Riverside Riverton Roosevelt Rose Park Roy Sacramento St. George St. George East St. Johns St. Joseph St. Louis Salem Salmon River Salt Lake San Bernardino San Diego San Diego East San Diego South Sandy San Fernando 535 549 548 195 231 391 582 270 534 462 670 746 757 875 459 647 508 573 879 618 739 503 524 530 613 344 336 200 769 890 856 391 477 607 705 552 [103 581 |106 540 | 99 182 | 93 205 | 89 320 | 82 665 /114 274 |102 542 |102 481 |104 5763 | 86 862 |116 675 | 89 984 |113 492 1107 633 | 98 5033] 99 521 | 91 822 | 94 6823110 701 | 95 519 |103 54831105 533 /101 690 |113 384 |1192 26614 79 215 |108 7094 99 846 | 95 995 |116 491 |126 473 | 99 585 | 96 783 |111 Emilie Packer Deseret Bullock Selena Fern Burbidge Ann Nye Myrtle M. Dixon Maxine Hansen Nedra R. Stott Minnie W. Herrin Doris Young Bette Streeper Gloria O. Peterson Mary K. Welker Beulah M. Page Ora Stallings Aneta Olson Iona N. Whitehead Blanche B. Densley Ruth L. Ostler Beverley Lundstrom Va Lois Bangerter Adelle M. Gorsch Sylva S. Graf Ruby M. Iverson Mae H. Wiltbank Ruth Marshall Margaretha Evans Mary B. Wall Sarah M. Hudlow Frances L. Kooyman Roma Simmons Kay Calder Lorraine E. Sharpe Ethel M. Burningham Louise R. Neff Noriene W. Kerr MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1964 382 Relief Society San Francisco San Joaquin San Jose San Jose West San Juan San Leandro San Luis San Luis Obispo San Mateo Santa Ana Santa Barbara Santa Maria Santa Monica Santa Rosa Santaquin-Tintic Scottsdale Seattle Seattle East Sevier Sharon Shelley Shreveport Smithfield Snowflake South Bear River South Blackfoot South Box Elder South Carolina South Cottonwood South Davis South Idaho Falls EnrollSubscriptions ment 438 399 552 531 724 445 054 220 680 477 523 246 803 647 407 417 529 365 875 580 850 463 778 870 750 809 481 498 563 742 523 No. 414 433 606 487 tao 439 469 206 662 464 522 185 910 624 448 448 554 331} 9033 626 918 371 658 869 740 757 469 382 578 668 6183 Pet. 95 109 110 92 100 99 85 94 97 97 100 75 113 96 107 107 105 91 103 108 108 80 85 100 99 94 98 v4 103 90 118 STAKES ON HONOR ROLL—1964 Magazine Representative Reta M. Heaton Mildred FE. White Elaine Hewett Carol Gifford Georgan H. Burtenshaw Elfonda Barker Hazel Haynie Edna C. Sawyer Ruby Elwood Ethel Blood Colleen M. Dial Geneva Wanlass Helen Hanson Mae Ballenger Ella H. Sandstrom Anna L. Gooch Dorothy C. Newman Erma Kenyon Manetta Hansen Neva M. Hamling June L. Walton Rertie F. Sentilles Ruby J. Thornley Lucilia S. Peterson Meda P. Hupp Agnes D. Cox Nila J. Stucki Fannie Branham Anna V. Lindman Naomi B. Stanbridge Alice Moss Relief Society South Los Angeles South Salt Lake South Sanpete South Sevier South Summit Southern Arizona Spanish Fork Spokane Springville Star Valley Sugar House Summit Sydney Taber Tacoma Taylor Taylorsville Tempe Temple View Teton Timpanogos Tooele Toronto Torrance Tucson Tulsa Twin Falls Uintah Union University West Utah 793 a EnrollSubscriptions ment 779 479 843 480 44] 403 739 548 715 717 954 390 373 410 458 711 679 332 717 542 957 548 536 556 580 295 994 519 621 No. 1683 527 6783 413 4463 453 700 433 719 7353 9193 331 4763 446 467 733 631 291 756 532 920 526 604 600 612 265 1052 440 6314 650 562 Pet. 216 110 81 86 101 112 95 79 101 103 96 85 128 109 102 103 93 88 105 98 96 96 113 108 106 90 106 85 102 82 87 Magazine Representative Dona Osborn Hannah Dietrich Iris D. Anderson Vera Smith Martha A. Lambert Maud Post Dora L. Otten Beulah Edwards Gwen A. Tippetts Leta Coffman Nellie J. Ehlers Clara C. Copley Catherine J. Jeffree Joan S. Anderson Ruth E. Fowler Lauretta S. Dahl Marjorie E. Coats Florence H. Bateman Mabel E. Snow Bertha Gillette Velma Gillman Alice Walton Ruth Florence Rennie Ivy R. Higdon Belva Jones Virginia R. Jacobson La Vella Pace Erma B. Taylor Mar Jean Westerfield Maud W. Johnson Faye Christensen MAY 1965 383 Uvada Valley View Virginia Walnut Creek Wasatch Washington Washington Terrace Wayne Weber Weber Heights Weiser Wells West Boise West Covina West Jordan West Pocatello Relief Society Alaskan-Canadian California Canadian Central Atlantic States Central States Cumorah East Central States Eastern Atlantic States Eastern States (Bermuda Br.) Florida Gulf States 320 715 317 442 814 645 435 341 734 663 620 888 799 730 668 621 Enrollment 478 314 586 441 502 376 1457 760 9 744 325 637 287 412 715 673 363 308 669 683 575 9814 837 770 608 602 102 89 91 93 88 104 83 90 91 103 93 111 105 106 91 | Subscriptions No. 454 308 627 349 494 396 1259 757 10 594 821 Pct. 95 98 107 79 98 105 86 100 111 80 85 Mae Hall Grace R. Engh Ethel T. Sweet Janet L. C. McManus Ruby Hicken Rubye D. Mikesell Edna B. Goodliffe Ruth Taylor Gonda De Boer Alma M. Peterson Vena M. Anderson Gertrude S. Fullmer Edith Coleman Lucille C. Hales Virginia B. Anderson Alta Holmes MISSIONS ON HONOR ROLL—1964 Magazine Representative Leola G. Durrant Ida Fuller Elva M. Adamson Rella White Norma J. Furnell LuSeba W. Peterson Nyla H. Morgan Helen Hatch Zelma R. West Ollie Hutchison Marie C. Richards West Sharon West Utah Whittier Witchita Wilford Willamette Winder Wind River Winter Quarters Woodruff Yakima Yellowstone Young Yuma Zion Park Relief Society Irish New England North Central States Northern Far East (2 branches) Kadena Br., Naha Br. Northern States Northwestern States Southern Australian Texas (West Texas Dist.) West Central States Western Canadian Western States 1136 538 747 580 238 684 520 622 181 376 651 298 908 701 364 410 Enrollment 163 652 45 612 808 625 239 556 301 425 552 817 682 274 702 437 553 179 303 746 243 928 597 357 437 103 109 118 115 103 84 89 99 81 115 82 102 85 98 107 Subscriptions No. 123 959 719 35 610 699 528 210 533 314 476 JER. 76 84 110 78 100 87 85 88 96 104 la Ethel S. Taylor Nola L. Stubbs Beulah D. Mickel M. Marcella Meador Lila F. Madsen Thelma Beckstrand Charlottie B. Poulton Betty G. Nelson Beverly K. Nye Gladys K. Groll LaVerne G. Jackson Leola Beddes Matilda Lewis Effie Nowland Pearl Stratton Magazine Representative Mary E. Brooks Alberta S. Baker Carmen Dahlgren Peggy Anderson Esther Waite Eva Mertlick Florence M. Carthew Willetta E. Mansell Florence M. Broberg Vera Jean N. Jones Carrell Thorpe MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1964 Jeanette C. Ryder Today, after we had finished dinner, y eleven_year-olg daughter Said "Come on, Mother, Set your SWeater." "Where are we going?" 7 ked. "Come On, get your SWeater," She id, divulging nothing. So, SWeaters o » Out the do r we went. I follow her throug the dead Erass down to the river 4 at ru Past our Place. She too € along the river' edge, then UP among the lows and brush th 8TOW on th Shore. "Can you make it?" asked "T can go 4nvwhere U Can," laughing answered "Oh, don't ] >" she Oked b T followeq h through the Willows and brush, duckin under Imbs, StepPing over Icks, Scratching m legs Sometime We explored the river bank horough] Nd she sho e her cret Play spots Then € raced ack along the river' ge, laughing 4S she beat to a &roup of big lava rocks. O across fence, an 4Mong some trees: holding hands, we kicked through th autumn leaves that had fallen hen we aded back f the hoy For awhile, out In the Crisp aut mn air, [| "eCaptured MY youth Such a my daughter and I felt aS We walke nd in and! J thou myself, You eed because I am your mother. T I, t Such a little bit of love and "omPanionship to m hen [ realized at in this b Small but Cautiful thj, n You. It takes ake us fee] Close to USY world we m IN8s of the our relationships nd on another USt take time out to en Joy the World with our children, if we are to Cement our understandings Just a fe Moments in their world Means al] the World to both of US. This House Leora Larsen This house i Peopled Friends hay, ested in this room If Oneliness Sits here Eaten Well t this able, S Stay j rief re wel] Prayed for, Here 8randchildren bring their Each Ie Shadow Of love Sweet lan Uage of living joy and eloved €ach ang €ssed b réngthe Our hop Clr safe turn And When » too, Must one day Leave, Lord, let m Make a home any Peopled May Annie Atkin Tanner Rain-gray is the y Pring Breen gro S the lawn Yellow forsythia, ink Clouds at daw Lingering twilights Onger each day, Prays of Purple lilacs And then, it is 384 The Relief Society Magazine in the Lehi (Utah) Carnegie Library Gudrun Wathen In 1951, Sister Hazel May Bone, the stake Relief Society Magazine representative, suggested that the Lehi Stake Relief Society contribute the Magazine to the public library as a permanent project. This was approved by the Relief Society presidency, under the direction of Sister Lileth Peck. With Sister Bone in charge of this project, The Relief Society Magazine was sent to the Public Library every month, and at the end of each year the stake Relief Society presidency had the issues beautifully bound, and placed in the library for the benefit of all who were interested in reminiscing over the past years, the marvelous work of the Relief Society organization, and its accomplishments. Sister Bone, after serving four years in this work, was released, and Sister Rosa Ashton for the past nine years has carried on with this worthwhile contribution with the cooperation of the stake Relief Society presidencies. Leah M. Sabey is now President of Lehi, Utah, Stake Relief Society. During these years the Relief Society sisters gathered back issues from: many who had preserved them, and these were sent to the bindery. We now have all volumes, beautifuly bound, back to and including 1915, in the library at the present time. We express our grateful appreciation to all who have contributed toward this worthwhile project. Rain Forest Ethel Jacobson Sunlight like rain slants down Through layer on layer of green From the loftiest hemlock's crown To where vine maples screen Young saplings sprung in rows On a giant fallen log. Each wraith of sunshine glows Through an ever-luminous fog— Emerald, celadon, jade, Like a land beneath the sea. This shimmering moss-hung glade Is bathed eternally In a hushed and aqueous light— A lichened, ferny domain Of peace and of all the bright-haired Children of the rain. 385 Relief Society Activities All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents or mission Relief Society presidents or supervisors, and should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. See regulations governing the submittal of Notes From the Field in the November 1964 issue of the Magazine, page 847. | ce AS] | North Tooele Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present an Evening of Music December 3, 1964 On the right, seated at the piano: Geraldine Droubay, organist; standing next to Sister Droubay: Kathleen Slater, chorister. Geneel O. Stewart, President, North Tooele Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our 'Evening of Music' will be an evening long remembered by the capacity audience that came to hear the beautiful songs rendered by the Singing Mothers. Amid the holiday splendor of poinsettias, the Singing Mothers, dressed in their lovely white blouses and dark skirts, each wearing an attractive Christmas corsage, sang 'their hearts out' as each thrilling number was presented. One of the highlights of the evening was the rendition of 'Come, Come, Ye Saints.' A special guest, Sister Hilda Erickson, Utah's only remaining original pioneer, sat cheerfully in her place of honor, an old rocking chair, as the group sang in her honor. At the close of the number she responded very graciously, much to the delight of the © audience. Talented guest soloists presented vocal and instrumental numbers that were well received. ' "Christmas music greeted the crowd as they neared the chapel. In the foyer - was a beautifully lighted nativity scene that brought to our hearts the true spirit of Christmas. At the close of the concert, refreshments were served on three long serving tables which were artistically decorated in keeping with the yuletide atmosphere. Delicious punch and homemade cookies were enjoyed by all. 'The sixty Singing Mothers met faithfully every Thursday morning at 9:30 for many weeks to practice for the entertainment for the stake building fund. Plans for the musical were carefully and prayerfully worked out by President Stewart and her Counselors Ethel Weight and Fern Gillette, and members of the board."' 386 NOTES FROM THE FIELD Seascape eee North Jordan Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present ''A World of Peace and Love'"' November 1964 Second from the right on the front row: Shirlene Hardy, conductor; at the right on the front row: Helen Williams, accompanist. Mary Lou K. Nielsen, President, North Jordan Stake Relief Society, reports: "The theme of the concert was 'A World of Peace and Love.' A lovely night of music was enjoyed by all, with each ward participating in two numbers, and the stake group rendering the finale. Special variety numbers were also given between the musical selections." Dm OMY dichnte sl tAONE ern odes FO. - - * ba Mrs South Carolina West Stake Relief Society Officers and Members Assembled at Leadership Meeting and Luncheon, September 12, 1964 Seated, front row, left to right: Clara Haner, social science class leader; Beulah Belue, visiting teacher message leader; Vivian Black, Magazine representative; Christine Ginn, Second Counselor; Helen Shaw, President; Grace Larson, First Counselor; Gladys Burdett, work meeting leader; Callie Jarrell, chorister; standing at the left in the back row: Elder Edgar K. Puckett, High Council representative. Sister Shaw reports: ''Our stake was two years old in February. The picture was taken the day we had our leadership meeting in the morning, and then assembled for a covered-dish lunch. Following the lunch, we had craft demonstrations given by each of our eight wards, and then a fashion show in which several of the sisters modeled clothes they had made, and children modeled clothing which their mothers had made. Sister Ginn and Sister Burdett planned the craft program and fashion show. The event was very successful, and the sisters are anxious to have it repeated. We have had several letters saying how interesting the program was, and how much they all enjoyed it." 387 MAY 1965 Manchester Stake (England) Music Display at Friendship Social December 5, 1964 Maureen Hoyle, President, Manchester Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Members of the committee were: First Counselor Irene Bates; Second Counselor Doreen Preston; Grace Steward; Lee Thornton; Joyce Roberts; Sylvia Walker. The social had two phases—talks and music in the chapel and an exhibition in the cultural hall. The talks were written by Mary Boswell, the chorister, and the music was by the Singing Mothers. "The photograph shows the much admired music display. The other activities—work, literature, social science, and theology were represented by similar displays. There was also a visiting teacher tableau. The occasion was entirely successful, and we were greatly uplifted by the obvious delight of our guests. About thirty nonmembers were present. On the following Monday evening we repeated our program before about one hundred Church members and friends. The program was described by stake Priesthood officials as being 'worthy of the beautiful building in which it was presented and destined to inspire higher standards in Church activity throughout the stake.' "' Philadelphia Stake, Salisbury (Maryland) Branch Bazaar, October 10, 1964 In front of a ''downtown"' bank, left to right: LaVern Rutter, President; Anna A. Lambert, Secretary-Treasurer; Thelma K. Hastings, First Counselor. Fern L. Hatch, President, Philadelphia Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The year 1964 will be remembered by the sisters in Salisbury, Maryland, for a good many years to come, and the successful bazaar will be a guide to follow. The bazaar was held in downtown Salisbury and the net proceeds totaled nearly $475. All varieties of beautifully made articles were sold, from homemade fudge and jams to children's clothing and quilts. The bazaar was not only a success financially, but was a great missionary tool also in introducing the talents of the members of the Relief Society to the community. The total membership of the Salisbury Branch is only twenty, but devotion to the gospel is the rule and not the exception in the Salisbury Relief Society."' Greensboro Stake (North Carolina) Relief Society Bazaar, November 28, 1964 Left to right, standing in the Winston-Salem Ward booth: Meris Gormley, First Counselor; Betty Marion, President; Janice Teddar, visiting teacher. Jessie Tyler Roberts, President, Greensboro Stake Relief Society, reports: "This booth from the Winston-Salem Ward is representative of the eleven booths and displays which made our first stake bazaar a successful event and the highlight of the year for the sisters of Greensboro Stake. "The cultural hall of the new Greensboro stake house had beautifully decorated booths arranged around the hall. The handwork was varied and outstanding, consisting of smocked pillows, pixie dolls, children's clothing, aprons, quilts, pillowcases, hand-knit and crocheted slippers and sweaters, mounted pictures and wall plaques, baked and canned products, and a variety of Christmas ideas and arrangements. "'For publicity, outstanding articles were displayed on a television program by Sister Roberts and Sister Virginia Harper, ward president. Attractive posters were distributed throughout the stores by the publicity committee. "We feel that the sisters derived more than just a financial increase by participating in a stake bazaar. A desire to improve their talents was instilled in the sisters, a choice selection of new ideas gained, enthusiasm built in the hearts of the sisters to go forward, and a warm spirit of cooperation and teamwork unequaled." 388 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 389 MAY 1965 Oakland-Berkeley Stake (California), Oakland Fourth Ward Christmas Bazaar November 14, 1964 Homemade bread featured at ''Santa's Sweet Shop,'' sold by Jennie Tate and Adeline Pratt. Margaret S. Fife, President, Oakland-Berkeley Stake Relief Society, reports: '*'A Sneak Preview of Christmas' was the theme of the bazaar. Decorations, booths, special events, gay Christmas aprons worn by officers and committee chairmen, jingle bells, and spicy smells brought back many memories of an oldfashioned Christmas. Hundreds of people attended as a result of excellent advertising in local and neighborhood newspapers. 'The evening was well planned by the ward work director Mary Bybee. These plans included something for every age group—balloons and fish pond for the very young; a 'teenage' booth decorated in the gayest of Christmas colors offered ping-pong, darts, checkers, and soda pop. Delicious food, including old-fashioned hot scones and jam, was served all day, and at ''Santa's Sweet Shop,'' homemade bread was featured, as well as cakes, Christmas cookies, and sandwiches and candy. 4 "This affair proved to be one of the most successful this Relief Society has ever attempted. It was most gratifying in that the whole ward seemed to participate and enter into the happy Christmas spirit. Many members of the stake attended this outstanding function.". 390 NOTES FROM THE FIELD | Pi zy. Corvallis Stake (Oregon) Relief Society Homemakers' "Fair Wear'' October 24, 1964 Standing in front of a backdrop representing the Mormon Pavilion at the World's Fair, left to right: Lucile Hardman, First Counselor; Maxine Lee, Second Counselor; Sigrid Persons, President. Sister Persons reports: "The Relief Society members and one Priesthood member modeled their 'Fair Wear' at the first Homemakers' Fair held in the stake. Brother Leo Hall, who had made the sports coat he modeled, was a hit of the fashion show, together with his small daughter, who was wearing an outfit made by her mother. "The morning was spent in viewing demonstrations at eight different booths for fifteen-minute intervals. Represented were silk screen printing, driftwood arrangements, ribbon roses, flower arrangements, tincraft, gift wrapping, ceramics and pottery, and textile painting. "A display of items from The Relief Society Magazine was participated in by all the wards and, just for fun, there was a guessing contest and door prizes. A luncheon, featuring a three-tiered Fair cake, was served to about seventy-five members of the stake. We had wonderful cooperation and participation from all our wards, and all entered into the spirit of the Fair." 391 MAY 1965 Bavarian Mission (Germany), Munich and Nurnberg Districts Present Historic Relief Society Pageant, November 1964 In picture frames, left to right: Ursula Roggermeier, as Emmeline B. Wells; Thamara Krause, as Clarissa S. Williams; Erna Schaefer as Louise Y. Robison; Lucia Seitz as Amy Brown Lyman; Edeltraud Bertele as Belle S. Spafford; Edeltraud Pollnau as Bathsheba Smith; Erna Schoepper as Zina D. H. Young; Josefa Wiedmann as Eliza R. Snow; Magdalena Gilch as Emma Hale Smith. Agnes S. Jacobs, Supervisor, Bavarian Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The photo tells a most interesting story. | wonder if we realize just how far reaching The Relief Society Magazine can be. Sister Ingeborg Gildner, our Bavarian Mission Relief Society President, who cannot read English, was very intrigued with the picture entitled 'Hall of Fame' in the February 1964 issue of the Magazine. The story and picture were submitted by the Orem Seventh Ward, Orem Stake (Utah). Sister Gildner asked me if | would write and get a copy of the script. | did not know Sister Bertha J. Kirk, President of the Orem Stake Relief Society, but we did have a missionary from Orem, Elder David Alma Burton. | wrote his mother and asked her assistance in contacting Sister Kirk. Sister Kirk was most gracious and sent the full script. "'Then followed the arduous task of translating. We desired to use the pageant for the Saturday night entertainment at quarterly conference. Because of the distance in travel, the mission has been divided into two districts, one in the Nurnberg area and one in the Munich area. That meant that two speaking casts must prepare, along with two separate choral groups of Singing Mothers. Our sisters entered into the project with a great deal of enthusiasm, making costumes, memorizing scripts, rehearsal, etc. They wanted to perform just as well as their sisters in Zion. We were all so proud of them the night of their performance. The speaking, the singing, the background music, the staging—all were lovely and well done. This was a real treat for the German people because so very little has been translated about the women of the Church. | have sent copies to each of the German-speaking missions and copies to the German Branch in Salt Lake City, Utah. Our thanks now go to the Orem Seventh Ward, Orem Stake, and to the wonderful Relief Society Magazine."' 392 WORK MEETING — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 7 — When Has the Gospel Been Taught? (A Course to Be Studied at Work Meeting, January Through September 1965) For July 1965 Objective: To motivate practices within the home whereby all members of the family may be taught the principles of the gospel. INTRODUCTION The gospel of Jesus Christ was taught to Adam and Eve, who, in turn, taught its principles to their children. And thus the Gospel began to be preached, from the beginning, being declared by holy angels sent forth from the presence of God, and by his own voice, and by the gift of the Holy Ghost (Moses 5:58). And Adam and Eve blessed the name of God, and they made all things known unto their sons and their daughters (Ibid., 5:12). This lesson, however, will not be concerned with the historical aspect of gospel teaching, as the title might imply, but will discuss the ultimate goal of teaching, which is to produce change in the life of the learner. To know what one did not know before, to feel as one did not feel previously, and to act upon this new knowledge, are all factors in the learning process. This discussion, therefore, will be based upon the concept that the gospel has been taught only when its teachings have produced change in the life of the individual. THE TEACHING MOMENTS We read much; we listen to many gospel sermons; we attend numerous Church meetings: How may we know when we have "learned" the gospel? How may the mother teach the principles of the gospel most effectively? When will the child be most receptive to ideas and truths which the mother knows are fundamental,. And how may she know when the child has really "learned" the teachings which she is endeavoring to teach. These are questions which concern each Latter-day 393 MAY 1965 Saint mother who accepts her part of the assignment given to parents by our Heavenly Father. They are also the concern of this lesson. In Deuteronomy 6:6-7 we find this relevant scripture: And these words, which I command thee this day, shall be in thine heart: And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up. This quotation indicates quite clearly that teaching need not be limited to a formal period of instruction nor restricted as to place. It implies that teaching moments occur throughout the day, whenever parents and children are together. Actually, the mother is teaching her children by her example, each day and each hour they are together. Example is a most effective teacher. That children imitate their parents is common knowledge. They tend to identify with the mother, who frequently may hear herself speak (sometimes unhappily so) through comments of her children. Yet, in addition to the general assimilation of gospel standards and attitudes through the influence of the home and the example of the mother, there are situations especially well adapted to the teaching of particular gospel principles. Some of these unscheduled situations which may create an atmosphere favorable to teaching and to learning are: 1. When a question is asked 2. When there is an infraction of a gospel standard 3. When there is a disputation 394 QUESTIONS CREATE TEACHING MOMENTS Perhaps no situation is more favorable to the teaching of a gospel principle than when a person asks a leading question. The mere fact that a question is asked, usually indicates a receptive mind. Many of the revelations given to the Prophet Joseph were in answer to questions about which he prayed earnestly. Jesus, the Master Teacher, frequently made his reply to questions the opportunity to introduce or to explain a gospel principle. Although mothers often may become annoyed at the incessant questioning of the _ pre-school child, many of his questions offer an excellent opportunity to teach, in a simple way, the basic truths of the gospel. Hear little children asking such questions: Why do we pray every day? Can't we ever see Heavenly Father? How do we know Heavenly Father loves us? Why do we die? How would you answer these questions? When children are very young, a favorable situation for gospel teaching may even be created by the mother. What gospel teaching might be introduced appropriately, yet intentionally, during the following occasions? 1. A ride through the countryside (children, five to ten years of age). 2. On hearing of the death of a friend or relative (children, seven to twelve years of age). The alert mother, however, will find plenty of natural situations when a gospel principle may be accepted and welcomed even by teenagers who might resent an artificially created situation, feeling that they are being "'preached at." INFRACTION OF GOSPEL STANDARDS Often an infraction of a gospel standard may be the moment for effective teaching of that standard. Illustration: A junior high school girl came to school one morning wearing a very attractive wrist watch. As her friends admired it, one asked, "Is it your birthday, or something special?" "No, nothing special. I was in dad's upholstery shop yesterday and I found it under the cushion of a chair he is going to recover." -"But why didn't you tell your father so he could give it to the woman who owns the chair?" one companion asked. From another companion, "What did your mother say?" The girl replied, shrugging her shoulders, "She didn't say anything. She just laughed when I said. 'Losers weepers, finders keepers.' So here it is." Although the mother's previous training of her daughter on the subject of honesty may have been lacking, this mother lost a golden opportunity to teach honesty when the watch was found. Suppose the mother had said.... (Complete this sentence with words which the mother might have said, but didn't.) Suggest three ways by which the mother might have met this situation, all in accordance with the principle of honesty. DISPUTATION—A TEACHING MOMENT The following family discussion illustrates, in a dramatic way, LESSON DEPARTMENT how conflicting opinions may create a teaching moment. Jim: (age thirteen) and Alice (age twelve) enter the living room arguing: Alice: "I'm sure it was twelve fish." Jim: "It wasn't twelve fish, it was twelve baskets." Alice: "Baskets of what?" Jim: "Good night, Alice, don't you know what? Bread—twelve baskets of bread left over." Alice: "Well, you don't need to be so smart. I forgot about the bread. I know there was something about twelve. Maybe it was four fish." Jim: "Or seven or eight—you'd better get the facts, my dear Alice." Alice: "I will before I write." Mother: "Now, now, what is all this talk about?" 'Father: (lowering his paper) "A battle, I'd call it." Jim: "This little sister of mine, is pretty mixed up." Alice: "Mother, he thinks he's the 'brain' but he's not so sure of the facts, himself." Mother: "Alice, what IS. This all about?" Alice: "It's an assignment for seminary. Brother Brown asked us _ to write a short paper on one of the miracles of the Savior, and I chose." Jim: "One she doesn't know a thing about." Father: "What miracle did you select, Alice?" Alice: "The miracle of the loaves and fishes." Mother: "The feeding of the five thousand." Father: "Well, what's the problem?" Jim: "She's off the beam, that's all. She's mixed up on the fish, bread, and baskets." Alice: "I'm not either. I only forgot about the left-over bread. There were about four fish." Father: "Well, daughter, we ought to be accurate. There were, as I remember, five fish." Mother: "As I remember it, dear, there weren't quite that many. Aren't you thinking of the five thousand people?" Father: "No, I think not." Here is a wonderful teaching moment! Right now. Will the 395 MAY 1965 mother be aware of it? Will she make use of it? She did. She said: Mother: "I suppose we should go to the source. Alice, will you bring in the Bible." Alice: "Yes, Mother, Ill get it." (She returns quickly with the Bible which she gives to the father.) Mother: "Listen, children, Father is going to read to us about a miracle of the Savior." Everyone becomes attentive, even the smaller children, as Father reads from Mark 6, verses 30-44, the miracle of the loaves and fishes. Jim: "You see, Allie, twelve baskets." Mother: "And we were all wrong about the fish. Suppose we start reading the scriptures in our Family Home Evening Program." Jim: "A good idea, it might help Allie out—especially!" Father: (still in the Book) "Five loaves—two fishes—twelve baskets full of the fragments and of the fishes." Question: What might have happened to this situation had the mother not recognized it as a teaching moment? PRAYER AS A TEACHING MOMENT Weare all aware of the fact that praying together strengthens the family, but have you ever considered family prayer as a teaching moment? If, instead of using repetitive phrases, a parent prays for the individual needs of family members, expresses gratitude for the blessings of life, solicitude for the welfare of others, humility in asking for other blessings, the children may "experience" some of the most important of gospel teachings. Whether or not the children have "learned" from the experience of family prayer, may never fully be known to the par- 396 ents. Such comments as the following, however, expressed to Sunday School teachers by small children, indicate their reaction to the family prayer: Child: "We like our neighbors. My mother prays for Johnny nearly every day, because he is sick." Child: "We don't just ask Heavenly Father to give us things. We thank him, too, for all the things he has already given us." Still more convincing is the actual "'doing" of a gospel teaching. Boy: (taking in garbage cans for neighbor) "I brought these cans in for you because Johnny is sick and I know he can't do it himself. But we pray for him every day." FAMILY HOME EVENING A TEACHING OPPORTUNITY With the introduction of the Family Home Evening Program throughout the Church in January 1965, gospel teaching in the home should be greatly strengthened. This program provides planned and scheduled moments for teaching. It may appear, at first glance, that the Family Home Evening manual is for families with small children only. A careful reading, however, will reveal suggestions to families with older children or where there are adults only. For example, on page 4, we find: "Even adults living alone can benefit from this exercise of thinking of the good qualities in someone with whom they are not getting along well." Many principles of the gospel may be taught in the home by example of the parents, by capturing the unscheduled teaching moments, by everyday living of gospel standards and by the scheduled and definite period of learning provided by the Family Home Evening. But a full understanding of the gospel also requires thoughtful and systematic study. The Family Home Evening Manual offers guidance to adults for this study. As stated in Lesson 1, the fundamental concern of the Family Home Evening Program is that all Church members be instructed more fully in the gospel doctrine that they may live in accordance with its principles. The following modern scripture indicates that it is a commandment that we do so. And I give unto you a commandment that you shall teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom. Teach ye diligently and my grace shall attend you, that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand (D&C 88: 77-78). Man can, if obedient and of sufficient faith, receive such of these truths as will lead him to the celestial kingdom where, ultimately, he may comprehend all truth. LESSON DEPARTMENT SUMMARY Familiar to the point of triteness is the statement that "'telling is not teaching." A child has not learned simply because he has been told, although he may have listened attentively. The gospel may be taught in the home by example, by making use of the teaching moments, through the Family Home Evening Program, and through other gospel study by adults. Only when the home utilizes these opportunities will it be fulfilling its spiritual obligation to the family. FOR DISCUSSION: Questions as they appear in the lesson, plus those introduced into the class period. FOR HOME DOING: Create (for small children) several teaching moment occasions and watch during the month for evidences of the results. Discuss with children (teenage children in the home) the incident of the girl who kept the wrist watch. Make use of their reactions. If desired, use the illustration of disputation as a teaching moment in your Family Home Evening. Let children dramatize the action, having father actually read the scripture indicated, relative to the miracle of feeding the five thousand. Room for Dreams Grace Barker Wilson Dreams need wider room to make them grow, An outward reach beyond the earth, Perhaps just space enough within a soul To bring them to their birth. 397 398 No Day Is Lost Rosa Lee Lloyd No day is ever lost If you have praised A friend or sung his song Or blessed a stranger At your door. No day is ever lost And unfulfilled If you have shared a grief Or helped a neighbor With a chore. No day is ever lost If you can soothe One anguished heart Or guide a sinking boat To reach the shore! The Mother Lael W. Hill How shall |! My love deny To any child there is, Since my child Is his Father's child And all my life is his? Whatever place | see his face A glow comes in my own, So | have smiled On many a child Who else would seem alone. Any child Is every child, His heritage divine; My love must run To every one, For every one is mine. HAWAIIAN TOURS April, May, June, October, November 1965 WORLD'S FAIR and L. D. S. PAGEANT TOURS 16 day tour July 17—Aug. 7 22 day tour July 24—Aug. 14 Two 29 day tours July 11—Aug. 8 and July 24—Aug. 21 AUTUMN TOURS TO EUROPE August 1965 WORLD'S FAIR NEW ENGLAND and CANADIAN FALL TOUR September 16, 1965 Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 485-2444 — 262-2337 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.55 Zone 6.90 Zone 3.60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4 65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5 80 — DESERET PPeEws FPREsS TO THE CUMORAH PAGEANT AND THE NEW YORK WORLD'S FAIR BY BUS OR JET! Eight-day Air Tour - Leaves July 29th. All the splendor and wonder of the colorful Hill Cumorah Pageant with your own guide! Three exciting days in New York City, including tours of the Fair and tickets for ''Hello Dolly."' Two days in Washington, D. C. Surprising low cost! Twenty-one Day Bus Tour - Leaves July 24th. This is the summer vacation you've dreamed about! See Winter Quarters, Carthage, Nauvoo, The Sacred Grove, Palmyra and all of those Church history sites with a competent guide. See the Hill Cumorah Pageant. Take in the World's Fair and the Mormon Pavilion! See Washington, D. C., and Williamsburg! MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. 14 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: 328-3161 Please send me full particulars on the following tour(s): MURDOCK | a TRA VEL City:..0 0000ce State: Zip: 8 a 8 s R. S. May '65. 8 s HAWAIIAN SUMMER C K PARADISE TOUR 15 days — June 26-July 11 ELECTR I C HAWAIIAN TOUR 17 days — July 23-August 8 a: HILL CUMORAH 5d 28 days — July 11-August 7 16 days — July 24-August 8 22 days — July 24-August 14 Includes Black Hills Passion Play 26 days — July 20-August 14 OAKLAND AND LOS ANGELES May 13 Pots and pans stay Will be time for those who wish a": a to go to temple white glove Evther J T, clean sther James fours 460 7th Avenue If its electric, its better! Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 399 10 Mrs. Anna Glackmyre Agee Mora, Minnesota Of Mrs. Martha Jones Provo, Utah 97 Mrs. Olena M. Larson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lois Barton Whittaker Circleville, Utah 96 Mrs. Alice Collins Frost Ogden, Utah q Mrs. Mary Alice Anderson Farnsworth Menlo Park, California 93 Mrs. Emma Butler Maxfield Bakersfield, California Mrs. Henrietta Watkins Barben Delta, Utah 9? Mrs. Minnie Bedell Banta Sacramento, California Mrs. Anna Mathild Garns Meadows American Falls, Idaho 9] Mrs. Elizabeth Barfuss Christensen Logan, Utah Mrs. Rebecca C. Miller Parowan, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Johnson Colvin Colorado City, Arizona Mrs. May Gates Rose Nielsen Roy, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Ellen Turner Tripp Burbank, California Mrs. Dora Maud White Whitehead Santa Monica, California Mrs. Ada Downs Holladay Tooele, Utah Mrs. Dora Moreland Ashland, Kentucky Mrs. Margaret McCurdy Roberts Vernal, Utah Mrs. Ines Fillmore Ellmer Payson, Utah Mrs. Johanna Farstad Creston, British Columbia, Canada Mrs. Emma Bunderson Pugmire St. Charles, Idaho Mrs. Dorothy Kocherhans Reid Panguitch, Utah 'Mrs. Hannah McLachlan Lyon Salt Lake City, Utah A Suggestion Iris W. Schow They say, ''Two rights cannot mend a wrong," And no doubt this is true; But try two rights when you have been wrong, And see how much they will do. A SUPERB NEW Cotpel-in-AyeMASTERPIECE | - -_ ~_. Chriss Ay 7 to the oNep %. By ARNOLD PRBERG HE stirring pages of 3rd Nephi inspired a. Superb Gospel-in. CAgt masterpiece picturing the most sublime event in the Book of Mormon. In rich oil colors. The World-famed ips artist Arnold Friberg has Created a monumental and sacred scene culminating in the noble figure of the Once both manly and d The superb full-color reproductions are of fine art museum Quality. The actual Picture size is fix 15", plus additional] generous white margins, the scriptural Quotation set below in fine typography. ¢) MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY pr Fe Bepnenen Pron 5867 wre? Lane + Sale os City, Utah Please send me —__ full -celo, Yobpel in-Areprints of 'Christ Appearing to the Nephites' by Arnold Friberg @ $250 eg plus 25¢ postage and handling. Orders to USA only Utah residents add 34% sales tax. Total enclosed $_ Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah - 5Y REVELATION wry S a OE. Selrmtu. Fran A distinguisheg biologist — specially Prominent jn the field of exo. Biology —— gives his reasons for belief jn the restored 9Ospel], With the skilj of q trained Scientific mind he Presents his evidence that Science and religion are totally compatible. All truth is God's truth! Ae 328-819 = = = == Ze SS — —— one — Encloseg Please Ss _ Check Desere; Bog oney Order. | have an Account, Please charg COM PaNny 44 Easy SO. TEMPLE AND aT COTTo, LAKE CI ae Address= ae 4 i ae ns: diel Zip.. Residents of Utah, Please include 3y % sales tax 
