The Relief Society Magazine Volume 52+ Number 10. October 1965 Lessons for January My mother called me into her apartment, then, in the wisdom of her eighty-nine years, asked me to hear a "beautiful article." With firm, clear tones, she read the Luacine C. Fox article (June 1965) on ''Thoughts of a Mother During a Family Home Evening.'' I, too, was inspired and fed by those tender words and wished that every mother might live them. Dorothy J. Roberts Salt Lake City, Utah | was thrilled with the picture ofthe Jamieson River, Victoria, Australia (the cover for the April 1965 Magazine). We live within one hundred miles from there. Our branch is still small, but our enthusiasm is in the opposite ratio. Hilda M. Curtis Shepparton, Australia | live in a community where there is no electricity. Everyone carries water. There are no other members of the Church here. Seward is sixty miles away. | do not want to be without the Magazine, because there is too much life-giving substance contained between the covers. It is a source of much hapPpiness, and gives me rich thoughts to pass on to my five children. Stella W. Powers Hope, Alaska The sisters of our stake appreciate the Magazine very much. It is beautifully prepared, and it enriches our lives and brings much to our understanding and development. Reading about the work that is carried on in ail parts of the world makes each of us feel close to these sisters. Fern L. Hatch, President Philadelphia Stake Relief Society My most sincere congratulations on the Magazine. It is really outstanding in looks and content. Dorothy Clapp Robinson Provo, Utah 722 | just wanted to let you know how much | love the Magazine. It always has a much-needed message tucked in its pages—stories that bring tears to the eyes, delicious recipes, and excellent lessons. | especially appreciated the story '"'Don't Feel Sorry for Me,"' (by Alice Gubler Sabin, July 1965). She has found what | am looking for. Mrs. Melva McKenzie Cambridge, Massachusetts | extend sincere appreciation for The Relief Society Magazine, with its inspirational and worthwhile articles and poetry. They have helped me to grow in. The gospel, and have strengthened my testimony of truth. | am nineteen, and have read every issue of my mother's Magazine since 1955. | especially enjoyed Amelia Everett's ''The Nature of Thought,"' in the April 1965 issue. Charlene Gold Payson, Utah It was with joy that | read the sweet poem ''Prodigal' by Carol Clark Ottesen in the July issue of the Magazine. My joy was great because Carol and | were in the same English class at the Springville, Utah, high school. | dearly love the Magazine and the riches contained therein. Valene Thorn Bateman ~ Etna, Wyoming The editorial ''A Goodly Heritage,' by Vesta P. Crawford (July 1965) gives so much substance to what I've been seeing and thinking about and working on that | must say thanks for it. | try to visualize my paternal grandfather, from England, who was thirty years old in 1860 and the difficult task of finding enough to eat in this area. A letter written by grandmother in 1869 tells of 'peas ready on May 10th and potatoes growing in the garden." Dr. Sedley Stanford Utah State University Logan, Utah thee Relief Society eceazine Oar ~ ae ae Fs 

Volume 52 October 1965 Number 10 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 724 The Covenant and the Promise Alvin R. Dyer 733. My Happiest Year Vanta Quintero 742 The Voice of Music Ora Pate Stewart 742 Tribute to the Singing Mothers Karen Crane 748 Consider the Nectarine Helen Hinckley Jones 750 Relief Society Means Opportunity Carol C. Hansen 752 Turning of the Road Enola Chamberlin Fiction 736 Mama's Retirement Florence B. Dunford 746 A Great Lady Margery S. Stewart 768 Ring Around Her Heart—Chapter 6 Shirley Thulin General Features 722 From Near and Far 743 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 744 Editorial: On Beginnings Louise W. Madsen 773 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 800 Birthday Congratulations The Home -inside and Out 753 Poetry Writing—A Favorite Hobby 755 Sweeping Out the Cobwebs Maxine T. Grimm 756 New Sweaters for Old Alta Williams 760 Quantity Cooking for Relief Society Functions Part II—Salads Rosa Shuriz 764 Every Day Is the Same Gene Prentice 766 Gleanings From the Season of Harvest 797 Hurry, Hurry, Hurry Janet W. Breeze Lesson Department 780 'Theology—Knowledge and Events of the Future Roy W. Doxey 786 Visiting Teacher Message "Cease to Be Idle" Christine H. Robinson 787 Work Meeting Lesson for January to appear in the November Magazine 788 Social Science—Priesthood in the Life of Every Latter-day Saint Woman Alberta H. Christensen 792 Literature—Growth Through Experience Bruce B. Clark Poetry 721 On Eagles' Wings Helen Hooper Parable and Promise, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 731; Dear Loved One, by Marilyn Miller, 731; Inland, by Lael W. Hill, 732; Blue October, by Etta Robbins, 735; Season's End, by Linda Clarke, 741; Supplicacién, by Beatrice Lopez, 751; An Apple, by Rowena Jensen Bills, 754; Housewife Confession, by Alberta H. Christensen, 759; For Three on an Autumn Beach, by Katherine F. Larsen, 763; Combing a Granddaughter's Hair, by Christie Lund Coles, 765; Perennial, by Marian C. Anderson, 767; Symphonies, by Grace B. Wilson, 791; Carpentry, by Kathryn Kay, 796; A Gift, by Elva T. Cowley, 797; The Mystic Glacier, by Bertha A. Kleinman, 797. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIEIY ot the Church of Jesus Unrist of Latter-aay Saints. 1965 by the Relief Society Generali Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

The Covenant and the Promise Alvin R. Dyer Assistant to the Council of the Twelve @ The laws of faith and repentance, as we have shown, are principles of light, or intelligence, and will ever be associated with man's eternal progress; but in and of themselves they are not completely effectual, until, by volitional promise, a sign is made with God the Father signifying that without reserve, having understood good and evil, and having chosen good over evil, in sincerity and confidence, man stands ready to make a covenant and promise of what he intends to do. Of such nature is the ordinance of baptism by water. Such declarations as: '"Teach all nations [faith and repentance], baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost,' "He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved,'"? "Repent and be baptized," (italics added) ''Repent iMatthew 28:19. 2Mark 16:16. SD&C 18:41. 4Moses 6:52. 724 of all thy transgressions, and be baptized,"* designate the culminative aspect of receiving a remission of sin, the desire to do better. It is natural for man who has committed sin, who, having been awakened to his wrongdoing is repentant, to desire to promise that he will not follow that sinful path again. Here, then, are the elementary gospel steps of faith, repentance, and baptism. Baptism Is a Sign to God Baptism by water, as an essential element to the redeeming processes from spiritual death, is just as fixed and permanent as a divine law of salvation, as the immovable laws which govern the planets and the stars. Of this the Prophet Joseph Smith declared: God has made certain decrees which are fixed, and immovable, for instance: God set the sun, the moon, and the stars in the heavens; and gave them their laws, conditions and bounds which they cannot pass, except by his commandments; they all move in perfect harmony in their sphere, and order, and are as lights, wonders and signs unto us... Upon the same principle baptism is a sign ordained of God, for the believer in Christ to take upon himself in order to enter into the Kingdom of God, for except ye are born of water, and of the spirit ye cannot enter into the Kingdom of God, saith the Savior... Baptism is a sign to God, to angels, and to heaven that we will do the will of God.® The Extent and Reality of the Sign In the same interview which Adam, the earthly father of the human family, had with the Lord, following the banishment of Adam and Eve from the Garden of Eden because of their transgression, he had been told by the Lord that their transgression that had invoked temporal death was forgiven, "the Son of God hath atoned for the _ original guilt,'® but as to redemption, or reconciliation from _ spiritual death concerned with the individual and _ personal transgression of Adam and Eve and all of their earth-life natural descendants, the Lord gave "another law and commandment,' to be absorbed by themselves and to be taught freely unto their children. This other law and commandment invoked the principles of faith and repentance, and the ordinance, or sign, of baptism by water and of the Spirit. Here is the commandment: That by reason of transgression cometh the fall, which fall bringeth death, and inasmuch as ye were born into the world by water, and blood, and the spirit, which I have made, and so became of dust a living soul, even so ye must be born again into the 'Times and Seasons, Vol. 3, pp. 751-752. ®SMoses 6:54. Ibid. 6:56. 8Ibid. 6:59. ®*Moses 6:62-64. THE COVENANT AND THE PROMISE kingdom of heaven, of water, and of the Spirit, and be cleansed by blood, even the blood of mine Only Begotten; that ye might be sanctified from all sin, and enjoy the words of eternal life in this world, and eternal life in the world to come, even immortal glory.® Concerning the Use of Water and Complete Immersion Needless to say, within the ranks of Christendom there are many modes of baptism, and many concepts of the use of water. But in the restored Church of Jesus Christ, by virtue of divine instruction on the matter, there are no mutations of that mode and use of water that was revealed in the beginning unto Adam our earthly father. The actual baptism of Adam is © the pattern for all mankind, and the words of counsel and instruction given him at the time by the Lord, are significant to the importance of this symbolic method, of "new birth' unto reconciliation with God. And now, behold, I say unto you: This is the plan of salvation unto all men, through the blood of mine Only Begotten, who shall come in the Meridian of time. And behold, all things have their likeness, and all things are created and made to bear record of me, both things which are temporal, and things which are spiritual; things which are in the heavens above, and things which are on the earth, and things which are in the earth, and things which are under the earth, both above and beneath: all things bear record of me. And it came to pass, when the Lord had spoken with Adam, our father, that Adam cried unto the Lord, and he was caught away by the Spirit of the Lord, and was carried down into the water, and was laid under the water, and was brought forth out of the water. OCTOBER 1965 President Brigham Young had this thought concerning the use of water, which stresses the importance of the complete covering of water as a true sign of coming forth into a newness of life: "In the last book of the New Testament," the statement is made, "that in the beginning God cursed the earth; but did he curse all things pertaining to it? No, he did not curse the water, but he blessed it. Pure water is cleansing—it serves to purify, and you are aware that the ancient saints were very tenacious with regard to their purification by water.'''' In order to answer to the likeness of the dead, that one principle might accord with the other, "The ordinance of baptism by water,' declared the Prophet Joseph Smith, is, "To be immersed in the water and come forth out of the water in the likeness of the resurrection of the dead in coming forth out of their graves. ''! The Prophet, speaking further of baptism by immersion, as the more complete symbol of death, burial, and resurrection, stated: "Immersion is certainly a correct figure, and represents his burial and resurrection exactly. It is a better symbol of it, at all events, than the symbol of sprinkling,—for ask all common sense, how a man can be baptized into Jesus Christ, —'baptized into his death'—be 'buried with him by baptism into death, —and be planted together 'in the likeness of his death,' in WJD., Brigham Young, Vol. 7, page 162. NTimes and Seasons, Vol. 3, page 935. 1"2Times and Seasons, Vol. 4, page 322. Moses 6:64. 4Matthew 3:13-16. 'John 3:23; Acts 8:39; Romans 6:3-5. 163 Nephi 11:23-26. 17Fourth Article of Faith. See D&C 84:25-27. LeSee Matthew 3:11. 726 a single drop or even a bucket of water. It is an impossibility.''!? The historic accounts of the ordinance of baptism of Adam the first man,'* and Jesus of Nazareth, the Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh,* by immersion, as the complete symbol of death, burial, and resurrection, together with the numerous scriptural references in both the Holy Bible*®' and The Book of Mormon,'* which assert this mode of baptism, should leave no doubt in any open mind of the validity of the Fourth Article of Faith in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints: "We believe the first principles and_ ordinances of the gospel are: (1) Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; (2) Repentance; (3) Baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; (4) Laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost." The Dual Nature of Baptism The ordinance of baptism by immersion in water, has, from the beginning, been a _ symbol of "cleansing" and "washing" pertaining to a remission of sin. Even when the fulness of the gospel was not among men, because of their wickedness and _ rebellion against God, the practice of baptism solely for repentance and a remission of sin has been practiced.'* Of this nature were the baptisms performed by John the Baptist, the forerunner of the Christ.'" But in the fulness of baptism, in addition to the remission of sin of those who worthily, by faith and repentance, obtain this ordinance, there is the covenant and promise, which the Prophet Joseph Smith, as already stated, proclaimed to be, "a sign The Baptism Of the Spirit When Adam, the first Ing, "brough and thus he was Spirit, and became quickened In the Inner man. The Order of beginning of OF Years, from all eternity » thou art d; and thus May al] MY sons. Amen: see the Pattern of the actual] Feconciliation of the ness,'?:1 The of baptism aS a symbo] Nance for the remjcc:; since he "knew IT Cor. 0:2 Missive to his will, and that he Would fulfj}] his pur S€ as the e€deemer f Mankind, the ordj Nance of baptism necessary e Confirmation his cove nant came Instant] » TOF as Jesys came up "straight ay out Of the OCTOBER 1965 water lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of God [the Holy Ghost],?? Descending like a dove, and lighting upon him: And lo a voice from heaven saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased."** (Italics added.) The Firstborn Son of God had covenanted and promised in the pre-mortal councils that he would come to earth to redeem mankind, but, then, when he _ possessed the body of a man, and ~ was himself subject to physical death and also capable of committing sin, it was necessary, being in the flesh, to rise above all things, and, while in possession of a mortal body which could be susceptible to the enticings of the Evil One, for him, through the eternal law of baptism. To reaffirm his premortal coveriant. Because of this, God cheFather was pleased; and then he, too, affirmed the mission of the Lord, his Beloved Son. Lucifer Seeks to Take Advantage There appears to be no question in the evil mind of Lucifer, the arch enemy of the chosen Firstborn and Beloved Son of God the Father, that the conditions of mortality into which the Lord had _ been placed, made him liable to sin and disobedience, but to neither of which did he yield. Nevertheless, Lucifer, the devil, pressed what he thought was an advantage, to cause the chosen Son of God to deviate from his assigned mission, and thus frustrate the design of God in the earth-life purpose of "Luke 3:22; 4:1. *Matthew 3:16-17. *4See Matthew 4:1-7; see also Moses 1:12-22. "Tbid. 4:8-10. 26See Ether 3:14-16. 728 man. But the Lord, the Firstborn in the Spirit and Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh, met every attempt of Lucifer to deceive and destroy him.*! Being the prince of the world, he offered Jesus all of the kingdoms and glory of the earth if he would but worship him. The Lord's denunciation was final, "Get thee hence Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve.' The Still Small Voice of the Holy Ghost The influence and power of the Holy Ghost came to a responsive and worthy Adam after baptism; this same power and _ influence came to a divine and _ sinless Christ, who sought guidance and influence as it emanated from God the Father; and this same pattern is for all of the sons and daughters of God, who shall be obedient to it, "'to fulfill all righteousness." It is a power that intercedes in the mind of the inner man, with all of its administrative force; it is, then, for the physical mind through restraint and obedience to become of one mind with the inner man. The Holy Ghost, as we have learned, is a personage of spirit, the same as the Firstborn Son of God was, in singular form, before birth into mortality. The image of the Holy Ghost is the same as God the Father and the Son. The brother of Jared saw the spirit person of Christ the Lord before his mortal birth; the body of Christ's spirit was the same in stature, image, and size as that of a man, for man was created spiritually and physically, after that same image."® From this we come to know of the person whom we call the Holy Ghost, who is a spirit, in full stature and size as that of a man. Under the administration of the Holy Ghost, mankind can be and is influenced, in the manner described by the Master unto Nicodemus, as the listing and blowing of the wind, ''and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth: so is every one that is born of the Spirit.''?' As man obeys the gospel principles of faith and repentance, and fulfills all righteousness in being baptized by immersion, symbolizing death, burial, and resurrection, and all is done in worthiness by the covenant and promise, then he becomes the beneficiary of the promise of the Father in receiving the guiding and enlightening influence of the power administered by that appointed holy being, called the Holy Ghost. This great power is a guiding light, a comforting influence, a testifying power in every walk of life to the righteous man. Its manifestation to each person, as described by the Prophet Elijah, is that of "a still small voice."" The witness of this, the greatest power upon _ the earth, was invoked upon Elijah, the Tishbite prophet, who, seeking refuge in the caves of Mount Horeb, while the Lord God demonstrated the many physical powers of destruction that could be visited upon the enemies of this great prophet of the sealing "John 3:7-8. 31 Kings 19:8-13; See The Lord Speaketh, by Author, pp. 303-305. *~D&C 93:38. "Moses 6:54. D&C 93:39. THE COVENANT AND THE PROMISE power, witnessed, "a great and strong wind rent the mountains, and broke in pieces the rocks but the Lord was not in the wind: and after the wind an earthquake; but the Lord was not in the earthquake; And after the earthquake a fire; but the Lord was not in the fire: and after the fire a still small voice.''" (Italics added.) Accountability and Infant Baptism In a revelation from God unto the Prophet Joseph Smith at Kirtland, Ohio, in May of 1833, the innocence of the spirit of man in his infant mortal state was affirmed: "Every spirit of man was innocent in the beginning; and God having redeemed man from the fall, men became again, in their infant state, innocent before God.''° It was revealed unto Moses, as previously referred to, "that the Son of God hath atoned for the original guilt,"*° thus relieving any man of accountability for the transgression or the sin of another. The innocence of the spirit of man in his infant state continues until he reaches a time of accountability, wherein he comes to know good and evil, at which time, as the Lord further revealed, covering the conditions which actually develop in each personal life: "... That wicked one cometh and taketh away light and truth, through disobedience, from the children of men and because of the tradition of their fathers.''*! It can be seen, therefore, that the spirit of man, in his earth life infant state is without sin, and continues in this condition until, through experience and growing 729 OCTOBER 1965 knowledge of good and evil, he becomes accountable. Until then, baptism by water for the remission of sin would be ineffectual. Under this condition, there would also be no need for the covenant and promise, for sin and transgression would not have entered. But there comes a time in the growing years of each child's life, "according to the tradition," or in accordance with the law of perceiving good and evil, that each spirit son and daughter of God tabernacled in a. Natural body, reaches an age of accountability; and from that youthful age until mortal death each is in need of the ordinance of baptism by water and the spirit to be reconciled to God. As the revelations from God clearly state: "For all men must repent and be baptized, and not only men, but women, and children who have arrived at the years of accountability."*> The New Testament record of the Holy Bible, when understood, proclaims that those who are to be baptized must be capable of being taught;** and thereafter are to have the power of perception so as to believe;** possessing the capability of repentance;** and of bringing forth fruits of repentance.** The Age of Accountability That there need be no disputations as to the proper age for the baptism of children, the Lord gave this commandment to the Prophet Joseph Smith, as a law: 32D&C 18:42. See Matthew 28:19-20. "See Mark 16:16; Acts 8:12, 36-37: Acts 10:34-35; 16:32-34; 18:8. *See Acts 2:38-39. %6See Luke 3:7-8. *D&C 68:27. See also 20:37: 20:68. *Moroni 8:7-8. 3°Tbid. 8:9, 11, 14. 730 "And their children shall be baptized for the remission of 'sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of hands.''** (Italics added.) Baptism of Infants Condemned Not only would the baptism of children who have not reached the age of accountability be ineffectual, but it is condemned by the Lord, as a challenge to him in the design and purpose of earth-life experience; and, therefore, a flaunting disregard for the will and commandments of God. Concerning this, Mormon, a prophet of God unto the ancient people of the American Continent, proclaims the mockery and error of baptizing infants, or any child before that child reaches the age of perception and accountability. Here are some excerpts from his strong writings on the subject, to his son Moroni (about 400-421 A. D.):... The word of the Lord came to me by the power of the Holy Ghost, saying: Listen to the words of Christ, your Redeemer, your Lord and your God. Behold, I came into the world not to call the righteous but sinners to repentance; the whole need no physician, but they that are sick; wherefore, little children are whole, for they are not capable of committing sin; wherefore the curse of Adam is taken from them in me, that it hath no power over them. I know that it is solemn mockery before God, that ye should baptize little children.... He that supposeth that little children need baptism is in the gall of bitterness and in the bonds of iniquity.*9 Conclusive Evidence Space will not be taken here to prove from ancient historical accounts, which could effectively be done, that the baptizing and sprinkling of infants is a manmade doctrine for which there is no scriptural warrant. Perhaps the singular statement of Martin Luther, the great reformer, will '0Manuscript in possession of Author (See Articles of Faith, James E. TALMAGE, pp. 127-128.) THE COVENANT AND THE PROMISE give evidence historically that infant baptism is false in concept and a mockery to God in its function. Said he, "It cannot be proved by the sacred scriptures that infant baptism was instituted by Christ, or begun by the first Christians after the Apostles.""'" Parable and Promise Dorothy J. Roberts Hold him—whom sovereign point of spear could never slay— By the cold, eternal memory of. Metal in the palm, And by some vigil in the heart that keeps him, strength and citadel, Guarding against the lash of years which would scourge him from the inn of the mind, From the room of memory into oblivion. Parable and promise let him live, and twin rows of yews He walked between, and Pilate, waiting. Dear Loved One Marilyn Miller Quebec, Canada True words of love come easy Like a shaft of blossoms before a cherry, Soft floating. Glad whispers carry Like perfume. The heart has room For love words. And in lonely moments, words are tender Flowers of smiles, once near; Cherry blossoms in December, Grown dear; Words to remember. 731 'Wind from a far sky And the gulls are s« ar — And now | am Ic For the loud wav And sharp in me i Of sea-birds' ru Piercing as pain are And | leap to the far, fa en wind runs free Miy Happiest Year Vanta Quintero Talk given by Vanta Quintero at special Placement Program meeting held Thursday, May 6, 1965, at Provo, Utah. M"The-la na go tha woo, she wont de tha she sh lah go show go th." I just said in my native Apache tongue "This year is my happiest. I am very, very happy, for in two weeks I will graduate from Provo High School." I have been in the Latter-day Saint Indian Placement Program for five years. I first came to Utah to start school in the 7th grade. My new foster parents, Brother Lloyd Bird and Sister Marge Bird, drove from Springville to Provo to pick me up. I was so afraid of white people that I lost my voice and couldn't even talk to my foster parents. I believe the reason I was so afraid was because at home our houses are very simple —the furniture is older and inexpensive. Up here the homes seem so elaborate, with lovely furniture, delicate figurines, and so many expensive things that could be so easily broken. On the reservation, the standards and restrictions are different. We are able to run around like "a bunch of wild Indians." Here, in our homes with white people, we are expected to conduct ourselves politely and with Vanta (right center) visits with her own family—the John Quinteros of Ft. Apache, Arizona and the Bishop John Martins of Provo, Utah. I wets OCTOBER 1965 restraint, and check with our foster parents before we do anything. Also, at home, I lived in a small community where I had always known everyone. There were very few white people with whom I was not well acquainted. Then, all of a sudden, I must learn to live with all the white people. It was very terrifying to me. The minute I got to the Bird's home and was shown my new room, I closed the door and wrote a tearful letter to my own parents telling them to come and get me. That was the beginning of the tears, but they went on and on, and when I would start to cry hardest, I would run to the piano and play "Mary Had a Little Lamb." My foster mother got so tired of the same piece that she taught me how to play "Chopsticks" and "'Peter, Peter, Pumpkin Eater." I cried for two weeks until my parents came and took me back home. My foster parents were so good to me and tried everything to make me feel welcome, but after two miserable weeks, my own parents came all the way from Ft. Apache (over 600 miles) and took me back. I had only been home a short time when I realized my mistake and determined to come back to Utah the next year, which I did. It was so hard because I was so shy, but the Birds helped me and I had so many good friends that I was not only able to last the year out, I even learned to enjoy it. I lived with the Birds for two years, and then Sister Bird had to help with the care of her aging mother and it was necessary for the caseworker to find me a new home. When I learned 734 I was to go to a new home, I felt panic-stricken. It was almost like starting all over again. When I first met Bishop Martin, his wife Dona, and their family of four children, Kathy, Mel, Kristy, and Kerry, I lost my voice again and could hardly force out a weak "Hello." Dona told me later it was the first time she had ever seen an Indian turn pale. This didn't seem to bother the Martin family. They bundled me into the car, and the children all spoke to sit next to me. The two little ones won out. On the way home, they pointed out all the points of interest to me. Little Kerry even gave me a few quick kisses on the cheek. It did not take long for me to feel at home. The first year I lived with the Martins, my foster mother Dona, and I were so careful with each other's feelings that we never even had a cross word between us. The next year we went for about three months, still being so careful to avoid any trouble. Then I don't know what happened, but one day we both had it out. I told her what I thought, and then she told me what she thought. I decided then I had better "shape up." We were both surprised to find that I had never seemed more like a member of the family, and, right then, we decided to talk things out and get our feelings out into the open. Sometimes I have had some dark days and lots of misunderstandings, but I have found that taking the time to talk them over with my foster parents has made them all work out. I think this is the secret of MY HAPPIEsy YEAR Cionship between the derfy] foster f ilies J have ad Ndian child and th Oster par. He irds and he Martins I ents—talk things Over, tel] them hankfy] or the wise advice J hatever t is th i bothering © received f the Casework you. He foste Parent Should ers I have also tel] t Indian hild ha € or she | ad, and for the counWhat ge] from the horities is oIng that doesn't fit IN with the fam; Y plan dian children 4Pcould be given thes my Seventeenth birth day. It Was a bi | € same OpporUNities that J have Surprise and the | hank you" t SO much mo better. NK you" to Father in heaven, I am Srateful foy the two won- 735 Something. € is al. Ways Killing herself (that word '~ Joey Was round again) | doing things for Others," and dar » Tight now his dark "Grand does things, too. He Yes were Pleading takes Kelly for a Walk." "That? S Just It, darling. We "T know But Grandpa IS re. Can't go to Grandma', today," Ired, [| hink Grand a works Joey frowned When Joe harder tha ever, thoy h. Grand rowns. Ell, he js like his fa 4 lS prett uch y derfoot." SO much hat it almost Kills me "So etimes J Step on Kelly.» With love, | fan. "What is "T Ow. Tr? 0 bad, but randma doing now?" little black 00dles have to learn "Gran ma Cleaning." I ran to stay Out from under People's MY hand t Tough his thick, Soft feet» } hair, "She has the Cleaners there "Like Grandpa." Joey laughed doing her h use. You remember "Well, € tries, busies him It ig Grandpa's birthday this Self as m h aturday,"? "What Ch as he can. But | Grandma Is j | are we £0ing to give Grandpa?" a Mpatient, | he isn't there, She ves things eavy things, all b herself" "Darling, We have hj gift. Yo "Like the Closets," now, so knitteg ties. Wha 7 " 7 Pushed the dark hair Wolries me lS that we Should Elve off Joey's Wide fo 736 in our sunny, small kitchen. "Grandma was going to let the cleaners do the closets. But then she decided she didn't want so much cleaning and confusion all at once. And she figured, too, it would save Grandpa fifteen or twenty dollars. But she has all the closets done now. And the cupboards, too. The cleaners were to come today." Today was Monday. How long will the cleaners be there? Who are they?" "Will and Howard. Two or three days." "Two or three days, what?" "Tt will take them two or three days to do the walls and woodwork, the windows and all the floors." "Then Grandma won't have to do anything." "That's what Grandpa thinks. Or that's what Grandma thinks he thinks. But there is a terrific amount of work to do, what with the pictures and the knicknacks, polishing furniture, and things like that. And Grandma likes things orderly, like most women."' "What is order?" Joey wanted to know. "Well." I hesitated. Sometimes Joey's father thinks I try to explain too much, too fast. But it is surprising the things Joey seems to understand. "Well, the other day I was at my poetry group." "Do you know some poetry?" "TI don't write it myself. But I like to go. Anyway, a girl was reviewing, talking about a book on poetry. And it said the first desire of our minds was for order. Like picking up your toys when you are through with them." Joey's eyes brightened. 'And MAMA''S RETIREMENT not leaving my dump truck in Mr. Gir Gir." "Mr. Giraldo's driveway." "And he ran over it with his car." Joey brushed a tear out of one eye with a fist. "He never. Never got me another."' "That's because it wasn't his fault. We must not leave our toys in other people's driveways." "TI know." Joey nodded wisely. "Daddy is getting me another." "Not until your birthday in October. This is April." "Maybe Grandma will get me one for." "This birthday is Grandpa's."' "Is Grandma giving him a party?" "Well, sort of. She always does. But this time, what with the cleaners, she hasn't said." "T want a truck," Joey said. Twat night when Big Joe came home from his work downtown, we discussed the matter over our dinner, there in the small dinette off the kitchen. "Did you go over to your mother's today?" He caught my hand and squeezed it as I set the platter of steak on the golden maple drop-leaf table. "T wanted to go. I really did. But you know Mama. She doesn't want help, but then she feels put upon." 'Sometimes I think she gives your father a bad time." "Oh, not really. I believe he deserves it. Mama just likes things orderly, and she doesn't like to wait." The telephone rang just then. "T'll get it," I said, sliding back my chair. I'm sorry to call you away from your dinner," Mama's voice said. 737 OCTOBER 1965 "But I wanted you to know you're invited over here to dinner on Saturday night. I didn't want Joe making plans to take you someplace else." "Oh, thank you, Mama," I said. 'But I think it's going to be too much for you. All that cleaning and the dinner, too. Why don't you and Daddy come over here?" "Because I've always had your father's birthday dinner at home." I sighed. But there was no use in arguing with Mama. "Can I bring the dessert?" I make a really superb lemon cream pie, if I do say so myself. "I always have my raspberry shortcake,'' Mama said. "But, Mama this is only April" "Well, there are frozen raspberries." I decided to change the subject. "Did the cleaners get there today?" "They won't be here until Wednesday."' Her tone was grim. "Oh, I thought they were coming today." "T decided to do the closets and some other things, myself." "T know." "Well, your Aunt Nell came and stayed five days last week," Mama reminded me. "And you know how much waiting on she takes." "IT think you just spoil people, Mama." "T don't know how yow're going to help it. Especially anyone who is so indolent as your Aunt Nell." "Maybe that's because she's 738 afraid she can't please you," I said. AMA snorted. "She won't lift a hand. Or a foot. Anyway, I might as well do what I have to do before the cleaners get here, as trying to do it at the same time, or afterward." "TY think you're a_ perfectionist, Mama." "Well, maybe." Mama's voice sounded pleased. "But, I don't think so. I just don't like confusion. I like to clean up as I go." "If there is anything I can do, Mama or Joe." "Isn't Joe working?" "Of course." "How can he help?" "He could come over in the evening. He'd be glad to come. We don't want you lifting any heavy furniture. Did the men come for the rugs?" "Yes. They came first thing this morning."' "Did you send the pads, too?" "No. They weren't very dirty. I can do them, myself." "Tf you have any lifting to do, or moving, you should ask Papa. He's still young and strong." Mama sniffed again. "Maybe that's the reason. He takes his time so about everything." 'Sometimes, Mama, I think that house is too big for you. What with all those nice apartment houses going up all over town, don't you think?" "No, I don't think," Mama said. "Your father and I both like room to move around in." I did not hear from Mama the next day, Tuesday, nor on Wednesday. Thursday a bit worried, for I had phoned twice, MAMA'S RETIREMENT and the telephone did not answer, When they were Out of ¢ Joey and I took the bus Over, room, J turned to Mama. "Now, here was a Janitoria] Service ama, out With it," truck out front. One of the men Severely « a slim, blo Said at happened?" man But Mama answered my ring, "J? Seemed suddenly Close to the: - om bed, and took her hand. "Tell," "Oh. She's in her bedroom," He nodded in that direction, "T - She raised her Self on her pillows, but then her Suess she isn't feeling go well," Wen contorted with Pain. "Ty he called after ys. My back and My right side." I found Mama Propped up in "T want to know Now what ed. The Canary yellow walls happened." looked bright and clean. The "Well, it was yesterday - no yellow and gold Chinese Silk the ay befor -. Before the Tapes that I loved so were at the Cleaners came, I had decided. Windows. But the soft beige ry those Tug pads were dirtier than Was gone; the rubber pad folded [| th hat the Cleaners bac under th Could doa etter job on the floors apa was sitting in a StraightIf they were out of the Ouse," acked chair there on the far "But the €avy furniture was Side. He took off his Spectacles on them, - - the piano in the aS We came in. Study. "Oh, arriet, I'm Slad yoy "Your father's Plano that he came." He looked at Mama, then €arned on When he was a bo turned to Joey, € always sa S it is better than "Mama, Whatever happened?" any grand." "But it's SO heavy you M ama slid down a bit in her pj] surely didn't, _ ae Ows. She glanced toward Papa "T could have Managed it al] "Charles, Why don't you take right," Oey out in the bac 8arden. Was just un €r one corner. I had nd take Kelly. " She Seemed a ready Moved the desk off the O bite her tongue, « do as yoy Wish." And then een an architect and SO as not Still liked to play 4round with it. ° stumble on the folded back "But the Piano! Why didn't Padding, and took Joey's hand in you ask Papa to help you?" one of his, "We'll take Kelly and "IT did Mention it to him the 80 for a Walk." night before He wasn t in sym "Where is Kelly?" Joey wanted pathy with the idea. He said to to know. Let the Cleaners do it, That was 'He's shut UP in the utilit What he Was paying them for" room. Makes youyy Grand- "T certainly agree. Especially mother nervous," under the cire umstances."? 739 OCTOBER 1965 "When I ask a person once Mama began. "Well, then, your father had to go downtown in the morning, and so I just got busy. It wasn't so much lifting the piano," she went on. "I had to somehow kick the mat from under the leg at exactly the same time." "And so you wrenched your Ibaek." "I'm afraid... Up at me. "Have you had a doctor?" "You know our old Doctor Landis passed away." "But, the new one?.' She looked 39 Miama pulled herself upright again. "Every time I go to him, it's up to the hospital I go, for all those expensive X-rays. Besides, it's just a sprain." "You haven't told me exactly how it happened." "T was just trying to lift the piano and push the mat out at the same time. And I Im afraid I was a bit angry with your father for going downtown and leaving me all the heavy work to do." "You weren't even careful. You went at it too fast." "T know." Mama's voice was more than usually contrite. 'All of a sudden, I just felt something. Well, sort of tear in my side. At the same time my back began to pain. But, I got the pad out from under the piano," she finished in triumph. "And I carried it out to the patio and swept and vacuumed it on both sides."' "And now you're paying for it,' I reminded her. 'Mama, when are you going to learn?" Mama turned her face away from me. When she spoke again, 740 her voice was muffled. "I'm all right. I feel much better today. And I've done something like this before, you know." "TI know. But not this badly." "No," Mama agreed. '"Harriet,' she confided, "you know, this time it scared me. I can just feel..."' she shuddered, 'that ripping feeling... Or sound." '""Mama, I hate to say this, but sometimes I feel you bring these things on yourself." "That's what your father says. I don't think it's very sympathetic of you." "T'm sorry." "You don't realize what I have to put up with. I like things orderly, and I like them done when they need doing. And _ your father " "T know he seems easygoing. But he has the best health of any man his age I know." Tears came into Mama's round blue eyes. "At my _ expense. Sometimes, I think he's just lazy." '"Mama, you know better than that. You say yourself that Daddy polishes your kitchen better than you do." "In his own time,'"' Mama said. "Well, I suppose that's his right. Not many men like to be bossed." "Your father, especially." "Mama, people are different. It's a peculiar thing, but sometimes we seem to marry our opposites. I mean a slow person falls in love with a person who is impatient. I suppose we're looking for balance, the golden mean, or something like that. I suppose it's like the poet said, it's our way of finding order." "What do you mean by that?" Mama's voice was contrite again. "Oh, nothing. Everything. It does mean though that we've got to give way to necessity, to differences in people. That we can't rush in pell-mell, and get our own way the minute we want it. Now, the cleaners would have been glad to move back the pads, or take them up altogether." "T know," Mama said. "That's what they told me. 'You should never lift anything heavy. You can always leave those things to us.' 93 "T hope you'll remember that, Mama." Mama lifted her chin. "Oh, I will, Harriet. This has really scared me. I'Il never never lift anything beyond my strength again." "Not even approaching it. You can always." "T know. Not be so impatient. Or so independent with your father and others. I'm not so young anymore." "None of us is when it comes to things like that." "Maybe your father doesn't feel like that heavy work, either."' "T think you're right. He just doesn't want to admit it." "I'm afraid we'll have to come over to your place for his birthday dinner, after all,'' Mama said. MAMA'S RETIREMENT "We're going to like that. There's a first time for everything. Aren't we going to like it, Joey?" I asked, as he and his grandfather came back into the room. "Grandpa is going to give mea dump truck for his birthday," Joey cried, all aglow. "And I'm never never never going to leave it in a driveway again. Not even our own." Mama's eyes were closed. But there was a gentle smile around her mouth. I knew she was thinking somewhat along the same line, but with doing too much, rather than too little. Order. Order in our households, our personal lives, and in our spiritual lives. It was a good thing, but we had to go about it in an orderly manner. "Just one thing more, Mama," I said. '"You're going to have to get along with my lemon cream pie." Mama moved restlessly there on her pillows, opened her eyes a bit, then closed them again. For one long moment I feared she was going to renege on the whole thing. But then she opened her eyes and smiled, though a trifle wanly. "Everything is going to be all right," she said. And suddenly I knew it would be. Season's End Linda Clarke Amber sheaves stand in rank along windrows; Red-blushed apples peek above their basket-beds; Tender blossoms courted by spring winds Lie as withered wreaths beneath my feet. Life is unpredictable. It can span a season Or leeward fall Before the gentlest breeze. 741 The Voice of Music Ora Pate Stewart Where wast thou when the morning stars sang together, as taking their pitch from the voice of God, they found their places in the universe? The angels who accompanied the Christ Child brought him with music, and remained to bear their testimony in song to shepherds. Were we among that choir? Had we a voice in it? Music is the first language a baby learns; perhaps it is a remembered transition. When a child goes to sleep it is his comforter. Through music he learns to love. When a man is of an age to marry, it is the rhythm of his mating dance. He praises his God in hymns. He pledges his patriotism with his national anthem. When he dies, a funeral psalm accompanies him back to his home country. Music carries men's praises up to God. It is the joyful noise he has required. He has stirred us with the rise and swell of oceans, and has calmed us with the quiet movement of clouds. He has sharpened us with lightnings, and has been known to speak with the chastening voice of thunder. He has soothed us with the whir of cricket wings, the cadences of waterfalls, the wind in trees. If stars can sing, and mountains shout for joy—if birds can communicate their lives through song—why need we put a voice into cannons or whining missiles? Music, more than flowers or jewels, conditions the heart to love. More than fire or frost, it refines the soul. As rain, it blesses rich and poor, the restless and the near-content. It is the rainbow bridging the finite with the infinite. Be still and listen: It could unify the world. Tribute to the Singing Mothers Karen Crane From a letter to Wilma Sorenson, Director, Singing Mothers, North Sevier Stake, Utah I want to express my feelings about belonging to the wonderful Singing Mothers chorus. I feel such a tremendous spiritual uplifting while practicing for each conference that I know without a doubt that it is the work of the Lord and that we are doing missionary work. A year ago, my husband and I went to the temple to be sealed and had our children sealed to us. Prior to that, on February 2, I sang for the first time for conference with this chorus. It was a wonderful experience not alone for me, but also for my husband. He was so thrilled with the singing, he said he had never heard anything so beautiful, and I feel without a doubt that this experience, together with what was said at that conference, helped in getting us to the temple, something we had thought of for some time, but kept putting off. You are a wonderful, inspired leader, your patience and kindness to all are greatly appreciated. If, at times, I should miss being to any of the practices, it is because I just can't be there for reasons beyond my control. I love the chorus too much to want to miss a practice. Thank you for the opportunity of belonging. 742 Ramona W. Cannon Selina Mann, President, Apia Stake Relief Society, a convert to the Church in 1947, was chosen by the Government of Western Samoa to be their representative at a United Nations Human Rights Seminar held in Mongolia August 3-17, 1965. Mrs. Mann traveled through Australia, New Delhi, Moscow, and Irkutsk before arriving at Ulan Bator, Mongolia, on August 2nd. Included in the agenda at the meetings were the meaning and importance of participation of women in public life; factors which affect such participation; measures needed to increase the contributions of women to public life; and the action which might be taken to achieve the objectives considered. Ivy Houtz Woolley, Las Vegas, Nevada, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, has recently had a collection of her poems, Sifted From the Sand, published by the Exposition Press, New York. Mrs. Woolley, an accomplished musician, has long been active in volunteer social service work, and has spent many hours reading to the blind. The former Hope Cook, once a New York debutante and a graduate of Sarah Lawrence College, where she majored in Oriental studies, married the Crown Prince of Sikkim soon after her graduation. Now mother of a year-old son, Palden, she was crowned Queen when her husband was crowned King of Sikkim on April 4, in Gangtok, capital of the high Himalayan little kingdom. Her broad education and interest in the problems of the people have made her a helpful person in her new country. Ells Maria Ferriero is considered America's finest Aida. She is a member of the New York City Opera Company, and has sung many difficult and exacting operatic roles throughout the country. Her remarkable voice is especially noted for its depth and vibrancy, and for its enunciation and breath control. Her impersonation of Aida, an Ethiopian princess enslaved by the Egyptians, has been described as ''majestic, glorious, unforgettably tragic." Miss Elizabeth Meehan is an expert in garden lighting, a delightful new fashion which is really an art. She is the color and lighting design coordinator with the Sylvania Electronics Products Company, Salem, Massachusetts. There should be one focal point in a lighted garden, the same as in a painting, she advises. Miss Meehan has won many awards in her field. Helen G. Russell of Gorham, Maine, Professor of Mathematics at Wellesley College, is also a photographer of note. Recently in a World Travel Photo Contest sponsored by the Saturday Review, she won the grand prize for color photography for her appealing picture of a child in a sampan. Her award was a round-trip to Hong Kong, with all expenses paid. Ellen-Ann Dunham, Vice-President of General Foods Corporation, is an expert on designing kitchens. Her unique and original ideas on the arrangement of cupboards and storage space have won acclaim by home economists throughout the world. 743 EDITORIAL they must enlist the interest of class members in the beginning to gain the desired response. "Behold, how great a matter a little fire kindleth'' (James 3:5). Good beginnings seldom just happen. They are the result of careful Preparation, prayerful consideration, and meticulous Planning. A new Start is fraught with Possibilities. There is something invigorating, something of the breath of new adventure, a refreshing of one's attitude with the redirecting of one's efforts. Volume 52 October 1965 Number 10 e@ Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor e@ Louise wW. Madsen, Second Counselor ® Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer With the arrival of October, a full scale of activities resumes and new courses of study are introduced. Each Relief Society presidency is responsible for each yearly beginning. So much depends on making it an eagerly anticipated event. Never should the opening of Relief Society be a dull and humdrum thing. An uninspiring beginning is a handicap difficult to overcome. The responsibility to stimulate and motivate makes it necessary to have the opening social and opening meetings right in spirit, attractive in presentation, and reflecting cherished sisterhood. Each class leader is responsible for making the initial yearly class periods vital, helpful, interesting, thought provoking and _ inviting to participation in learning. By affirming her conviction of the worth of the subject she teaches, and by her enthusiasm, she makes the beginning meaningful. A good beginning becomes the foundation upon which success is built. ''Though thy beginning was small, yet thy latter end should greatly increase' (Job 8:7). Relief Society had its beginning in this last dispensation 123 years ago. Its auspicious organization is the foundation for its growth and achievements. As a pebble thrown into a pond breaks the calm surface and causes the water to ripple in everwidening circles, Relief Society, from its start, has spread in everwidening waves to influence and uplift women of many lands. Come with us, begin with us, be one with us, Relief Society calls. Let the beginning of this year's work find every sister in her place in the organization the Lord caused to be created for his daughters. —L. W. M. Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Etsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson lrene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith ~~ we ¢ ~~ we @ There was a great lady who could make songs of her own. When she sang the songs in the evenings, all the townspeople gathered outside her windows to listen. The lady sang her songs softly, but so sweet was her voice and so gentle her fingers on the harp strings that listeners were moved to weep. At first the woman was delighted at the praise and gratitude of the humble village people, but as her fame spread, and more wealthy people came to listen, she began to grow impatient with the villagers. At last, the lady, who now was asked to visit distant cities to 746 ~ my fh: | S ~ Margery S. Stewart sing her songs, became angry with the villagers and built a high stone wall about her house, so they could no more press her windows. "Only those who pay shall hear me now," she said. One day the lady decided to give a great recital for many lmportant men and women who were visiting the island. For days her servants and gardeners swept and dusted and made ready the garlands of flowers for the guests. The great feast was made ready for the earth ovens. On the day of the recital everything shone. The sun was its brightest, the air most delightfully scented, the garden bloomed with lavish beauty, and the many lawns were green and tender to the eye. The lady stood in her purple robes with a crown upon her head, for many had told her she was a queen among women. How beautiful and grand she felt how proud to think of all the people who would soon be walking about admiring her gardens and flowers. Suddenly someone bowed over her hand. The lady looked up in surprise. It was an uninvited guest who stood there. Though he was very tall and handsome and gentle in manner, still he was a stranger. "Who are you?" asked the lady in wonder. "T am the messenger and the physician," said the stranger. "But I am not ill," cried the lady in some alarm. "Only your eyes," said the messenger and physician, and with that, he took a powder from his robes and blessed each of her eyes. After the small smarting was over, the lady opened her eyes and saw things very clearly. She saw her beautiful gardens, but everywhere she looked she saw the patient hands of her gardeners and the tears of the maids she had scolded. "Your guests are arriving," said the messenger and physician. The lady looked up and cried aloud, for each guest was supported by a pair of crutches, and on these crutches each one limped carefully. "Oh, how terrible!"' cried the lady, but then she was silent in some astonishment, for as the guests came nearer, she saw they were not at all sad because of their affliction, but rejoiced in their crutches. Some of them had taken great pains to make them especially beautiful and had had A GREAT LADY them inlaid with gold or silver or precious stones, and some were ivory and beautifully carved. "How strange,' murmured the lady. "Behold them," said the messenger and the physician, "for they are all named." And so they were. Some of them were named "Beauty," some "Wealth"; some were named "Pedigree" and some ''Wisdom"'; but each had a name. Suddenly there was a commotion. The lady looked toward the sound. She saw that one of the guests who leaned on crutches marked "Beauty" had stumbled and fallen to the ground. The broken crutches, which had _ betrayed her, were fallen beside her. "Alas," cried the lady, watching her stricken guest being carried away, "alas! That one should rely on such crutches as beauty. I rejoice that I am without such crutches." "Look," said the messenger and physician. The lady looked down and beheld that she also leaned upon crutches. The name _ of her crutches was "Talent," and they were of pure silver. With a cry of dismay, the lady cast the crutches from her. She stumbled and could not stand. The physician knelt beside her. She looked at him in fear. "Why can I not stand without the crutches?" "Because you have leaned upon the gift and not the Giver." The lady wept, for with her new sight, she saw that it would take great pain and endurance and self-denial to learn to lean upon that which would support her forever. 747 @ When I went into our garden to set the sprinkler, I stopped to admire our fast-growing nectarine tree. This year the weather had been perfect for its development, and it had put out a great deal of new wood. It seemed almost twice as large as last year; the leaves were clean and green, and the fruit that had been hanging with a cheek to the sun had already been warmed to blue-rose blushes, When I returned later to reset the sprinkler, the beautiful tree lay on its Side, its from the water-softened earth. J simply couldn't My husband looked at it Sadly. "We let the water run too long, 748 Helen H inckley Jones I guess. But perhaps we can stil] Save the tree, [']] get under it and lift it while you put a prop under it." Of course this was. Wishful thinking. What teacher of English is capable of lifting a large tree while another word-handler tries to put a prop under it? We struggled, Nothing happened. Some dim memory stirred, and I ran for a length of rope, with the idea that I could tie the rope to the tree and then hang my weight to the other end of the rope. I didn't remember that, for this Procedure to be successful, I would have to Weigh more than the tree! In a moment a neighbor, from the wind-swept plains of South Dakota, came to offer both ad- vice and muscle. "What happened?" he asked. Both Ivan and I lifted our shoulders in a magnificent display of actual ignorance. Then Ivan tried for an answer. "'I guess we gave it too much water."' 'See that down side?" Mr. Dakota asked. "Note how much more growth there is on that side than on the up side? The tree wasn't balanced." And then he added, "Trees don't root deep here in California as they do on the plains. Growth is too easy and too fast. There aren't any winds to buck, either." Mr. Dakota and Ivan lifted together. I put my weight on the rope and slowly the tree came to an upright position. Quickly I tied the rope to a metal support that was none too firm itself. While Mr. Dakota balanced the tree, Ivan went for boards to use as temporary props. "You better prune off all that heavy side and leave it propped for a couple of months," Mr. Dakota said as he placed the boards where they would do the most good and guyed a wire to a neighboring fence post. I watched his expertness with envy; but still I was thinking, "I wonder if I could make a parable out of this." Surely many of us—like the little nectarine tree—lose our footing and pull our roots out of soil that has been softened by new influences. Think of the adolescent girl who finds that her parents are not the stable people she had thought them. How easy it is for her to draw her roots out of the unfamiliar, disintegrating environment.. CONSIDER THE NECTARINE Then, what had Mr. Dakota said? The tree had grown unevenly. It had put out new wood, new leaves, heavy fruit, only in one direction. Many of us are, without realizing it, growing too much in one direction. Perhaps we are growing physically but not mentally. Or, perhaps even more likely, we may be growing mentally but not emotionally and_ spiritually. The student away from the influence of his home and attending an advanced technological institute may lose touch with his church and come to believe that only those things that can be proved by scientific methods can be of worth. Or, what was that other statement of Mr. Dakota? "Things don't root deep here in California. They grow too fast and too easily. There aren't any winds to buck, either."" I often wonder what differences there would be in me if I had lived the pioneer life. If I had belonged to the Martin Company, for example. But there is still another possible parable. Ivan and I saw the fallen tree. With the help of our neighbor, we set it upright. We knew how to give it temporary support. Perhaps we_ should watch for humans who have fallen, help them to their feet, and assist them until they are again firmly rooted. If we had the gift that Jesus had for telling parables, we might begin an immortal classic with the words: "Consider the nectarine tree, which having put all of its growth on one side, and finding itself in soil that was no longer firm." 749 ] few years, it Seems Me girl, | Was so inefficient! Would just iron 80ing Someplace and ©. | would wait for Cfore | would bathe the b y, because! Felt So j » and then j j iMpossible that | 4 Shirt jf my husband Was iM to Come ho at one o: had to Work and Plan to get Everything ready so as | thought the Children Would be Minute Of it. It [ » New Shortcuts Orking with Children All his, and even the Wonderfy| lessons that Made me read and Stud Then the time Was Changeq t Morning bright 4nd ear| Couldn't Bive UP no So | worked 2round the house t nigh Were in b * SO I coulg be ready for Relief Society in the of accomp| hment t was to 80 off knowing things w Yes, | almost forgot—now the Children Were 80ing wit Stay home from the Relief Society nurser Nother Challe &€ came. | Was calle to teach the SOCial sc a Wonderfy| blessing! ] SUPPose teaching is in MY blood. Both aught at Utah Stat University but | had never taught befor Prayed, Prepared, and fast le | aS One of the Oost thrilling life. Tt Still js! Can hardly wait for MY lesson time to come now teaching h theolo €ssons, and they are an inspiration! Have a Wonderfy| husband, Seven Precious Chil ren, and a | 4nd goog! Fee} blesseq e€yond my fondest dreams lam a | blessings because | have learneg t Manage time Wisely, elj tha aren't really 'Mportant, 4nd have learneg to love and ap enjoy my family! Know tha Motherhoog iS the NOblest lessons | learneq trom Relief Society.! Love it from the bott Will spend My life rying t help Other Mothers © for their liv 750 Sixth Year | Eva Willes Wangsgaard Littlest angel is entered in school. My! He's grown inches, so tall and so wise. Leastwise, he has if you use his own rule And read the new measurements through his own eyes. Littlest angel's a student brand new— Head up, chin in, and shoulders held square. He speaks of new friends and homework to do, "Two-times..."' and '"'two plus'' and ''something to share." Something inside me says, ''Mother, let go. Never let loneliness show in your face. Step out to meet him and let your heart grow. This year you launched a new man into space." Supplicacion Beatrice Lopez Translation éPorque te lleva esos vientos? Why let the winds take you? Cuando solo por pedir, es cierto. When for the asking, it is so. Esta Vida, dulce y dolorosa. This life so sweetly painful Pide que sea cumplidora. Ask that you find fulfillment. Deja que murmure ese viento. Let the wind whisper to you. Siente este corazon viviente. Feel this living heart. Esta vida te of rece tanto. This life offers you so much. Solo, cumple tu segundo estado. Only, keep your second estate. é¢Porque te lleva esos vientos? Why let the winds take you Cuando solo por pedir, siento. When for the asking, | feel Que en Tus Manos yo reposo In your hand, | rest, Libre de peligro, yo gozo. Finding happiness, free from harm? éPorque te lleva esos vientos? Why let the wind take you Cuando solo por pedir, es cierto. When for the asking, it is so? Ee 751 Of the Road Enola Cham berlin @ There Was a tim floors, Or ironed the ¢] Pressed €sentment f totaled the trouble My losses 4 d made a pile of Omg all of this J able to be around. I do not do those thin rend who had los Ww my arms, and found c that I ha Never log an nly troubles I ha were those J S making for That Was a turning of the road for me, [ Stieved With that family and did €verything I could for them. Itisa Sad commentary on my Christianity that Sorrow had to com ° Someone to Make me realize [T }, been living in an UN-Christian | Manner, F dwelling ©n troubles and losses nd limitations Is ag far Tom Christ? Teaching as anything can be, Jt leads away from God | Instead of toward him, So Now, as J Wash the dishes Or iron the clothes, Y mind jg as busy as it always 4s; but now Y Mouth ig Pulled UD at the corners here jt used t awn down, J Spend the time counting My bless Ings, Counting What J have to be thankfy] for, and Siving &ratitude to od. In this Process 6 Self-e amination Tama 4Zed at the any things I have to be thank fy] » amazed at the few mal] troubles Which come to Plague Me, |' Sure tha since J' hanged MY attitude toward life, life 4s changed Its attitud toward Mme. I do have more essings than id b Ore. I have fewer troubles Without Just ignor Ing or belittling hem. J find [' Closer to aS Well as being more In tune With the heart humanity. I' happier, I make Others happier. It is 800d to turn one's road to ha Piness and Joy. 752 Nancy W. Wilcox, Ogden, Utah, has expanded her interest in letter writing into composing poetry, which she has found to be a rewarding and challenging activity and an '"'insurance against loneliness.'' She expresses in her writing the good things of life—family, home, community, and Church. ''Poetry writing cultivates a new awareness and interest in all cultural activities. It mirrors my own philosophies of things which | love and understand. It lifts the spirit and increases faith —the most potent weapon known to man." Mrs. Wilcox has served in all the women's auxiliaries of the Church, and ts now a Relief Society visiting teacher. She is the mother of four sons and has fifteen grandchildren, and loves to keep records of the important happenings in her family. She has made many albums, using kodak pictures, honor awards, and other important mementos. Each son's life story has been recorded in pictures, from his infancy to his wedding day, and each daughter-in-law has received the record book as a wedding present that no one else could give— priceless and beautiful. The Grown of Years Nancy W. Wilcox Could | but tread the paths | trod, It pleases change to follow me And hear the music that was sung, And like my shadow round me clings, Relive the busy, wholesome hours Dictates and molds my destiny, When time and years were young, Unfolds life's fairest things. Rekindle all my lofty thoughts Time treads the earth with rhythmic pace, Born of youth's impatient yearning, Nor stops, nor waits, nor hours reclaim, \'d feel the glow, the magic touch He stamps his mark upon my face Of springtime returning. Writes years against my name. 753 inside and out An Apple Rowena Jensen Bills An apple is fulfillment! It is matured blossoms from shading trees, Spring's ball of green—sour, and quickly tasted, Red crabapples—jellied in jars, Crunchy lunch around a seeded core, A yellow transparent, honey-sweet in dew, The nectar of cool October and November, Fresh apple pie and apple sauce, Symbol of a bushel basket, Saucy, juicy grin of youth, Smell of winter basements and small markets, An apple is a green, red, or yellow skin Enclosing nature's bounty! Sweeping Out the Cobwebs Maxine T. Grimm ® You don't have to return to a neglected or vacated house to find cobwebs—the spiders are busy all the time. After all, they have more time than we do, and, too, they have their houses to build. Nevertheless, as I was sweeping the cobwebs from my ceiling, I conceived another "Household Sermonette."' It might be a good idea to start sweeping a few cobwebs, not only from our ceiling, but from our lives to clear our vision to the beauty of God's world. There are endless cobwebs—ignorance, temper, stubbornness, procrastination, neglect, laziness, impatience, exasperation—you could go on and on. Does the cobweb of ignorance keep you from enjoying the great achievements of man? Does it make you accept less than your due on earth because you don't fully understand the scriptures? Can you observe the beauty of a sunset till it stirs you inside and sends chills up your spine, or does the cobweb of impatience cause you to see only the passing of time and a late appointment? Can you respond to the joy of your son making his first home run, or have you shackled yourself with the cobweb of stubbornness and insist that he wipe his muddy shoes first, and so spoil a magic moment? Did you cheer up a lonely neighbor as you had promised, or are you enmeshed in the cobweb of procrastination—you have too much to do, you haven't the time—there are shopping and cleaning and children and meetings? Can you give your Relief Society lessons with true inspiration, or are they clouded by the cobwebs of neglect in preparation and research? When your husband looks as if he is carrying a problem, do you draw him out to see if you can help, or do you let your cobweb of impatience for getting household things done promptly, interfere? Do you waste precious time complaining about a torn ironing cover, a lost hammer, a cracked window, rather than admit that the cobweb of neglect has entangled your action? Let us dispel these cobwebs of ignorance with learning. Our Church sponsors this. There are endless opportunities. Relief Society meetings are an excellent beginning. Dispel the cobweb of temper with control, the cobweb of procrastination with action, stubbornness with a consideration of others, neglect with interest, impatience with patience, laziness with activity, and exasperation with inspiration. What are your cobwebs? List them, and one by one dissolve them with their own dissolving agent. To help us the beauty of God's world to see— Sweep out the cobwebs wherever they may be. 755 New SWEATERS for Old Alta Williams @ Have you ever had a sweater that you really enjoyed wearing? When it finally developed a few small holes, did you wish that you could mend it so that the holes would not be noticeable? Well, you know the old saying "Where there's a will, there's a way." My favorite sweater is beige. When I noticed some small holes in it, I was very reluctant to part with it. This is what I did, and you can do it, too. 1. Mend the holes with matching thread. 2. Lay the sweater on a newspaper and cut pattern pieces 14 inch bigger than the sweater. 3. Buy sufficient lace to cover the sweater or to make designs to cover the holes. 4. Cut off the buttons to be re-sewed later, if you are covering the whole sweater. 5. Hand stitch the lace pattern pieces to the sweater. 6. To give your sweater a more finished look, roll the cuffs and bottom ribbing under and hand stitch. This project was such a success that I covered all of my old sweaters with various designs, using matching lace or contrasting lace. You can create many fascinating sweaters which will have that personal touch and be very different from others that you see. Some sweaters can be successfully camouflaged for as little as thirty cents. Just cut out the flower motifs from the lace and make an attractive pattern on the sweater. If you have grown tired of a sweater, try this: Make a plaid skirt that will coordinate with the sweater. Use the scrap material from the skirt to trim the sweater. Try springy flowers made from yarn to give an old sweater new interest. Put one piece of yarn the length of a pencil, slitting the eraser and end of the pencil to hold yarn. Wrap more yarn twenty times around the pencil-length yarn. And the pencil, horizontally. Take the two end pieces of pencil-length yarn and tie them tightly around the wrapped yarn in a square knot. Slip this off the pencil and it springs into a lovely flower. Trim off the excess yarn and attach it to the sweater with a contrasting French knot. Embroider some green leaves for these flowers, and presto, you have another new sweater. This do-it-yourself project really helps perk up a back-to-school wardrobe and is so easy on the budget. It brings hours of enjoyment to the creative person who can always think up new ideas for old sweaters. 756 tte pattern \) Uf" DDI lace variations 758 =) = O 3 o Q o "< = Q = = = 2) bead >- n oO o "n a SS ewe ey & << €¢ & € oA 4 ms, ' 4 38; Ny att print ed; he un be ca mera - = gio why Si £ isa havanbany rayon a * "i alk y, 1 " { 4 4 7 1¢ ' bet vai aes vojitosinanoagsy ot yl ' A eis 7) CO A AQUAMITE UN 4g Aa! Sweater trimmed to match skirt slit to anchor yarn \) J | nee oe al Housewife Confession Alberta H. Christensen One self of me is disciplined And orderly her ways, Keeps figure neat and diet-thinned, Time-budgets weeks and days. In thrifty mood the fruit is canned, The sock is darned, each menu planned; With curtains crisp as springtime salad, She thinks of neither ode nor ballad. The other self, refusing tether, Would walk no charted lane, Saves heart-space for the scented heather, Would socialize with wind and rain. She lingers on a greening hill Where broom has never swept, nor will. Can she who hears the door of autumn turn Be much concerned if sometimes carrots burn? 759 (uantity Looking or Relief Society Functions Part || - Salads Rosa Shurtz hours, drained, and then mixed with other Ingredients. This gives POTATO SALAD 534 ats. Cooked, diced Potatoes 1 tsp. Pepper 1 qt. Chopped Celery Yc. White vinegar lc. Chopped green onions 1 c. Salad oil 2 ¢. Thinly sliced radishes 1 dozen €88s, hard-boiled 1 qt. Chopped Cucumbers 1 c. Hot dog relish 3 tbsp. Salt 1 c. Salad dressing Toss first nine ingredients together. Marinate several hours. Add eggs and remaining ingredients. Chill. Yield: 50 Servings, 14 Cc. Each. CURRIED RICE SALAD 14 c. Cubed Cooked turkey or Chicken 7 C¢. Chopped celery 4c. Uncooked rice 134 ¢. Chopped green pepper 13% ¢. Minced green onions (use tops) 4/4 cc. Salad dressing Y% c. Cider vinegar 1 tbsp. Salt, or salt to taste 1 c. Salad oil 2 Cc. Sweet Pickle relish 2 tbsp. Curry powder THE HOME—INsipg AND out CARROT SALAD SUPREME 7 Ibs. Carrots, 8round Coarsely and 1 large Miniaty Marshmallows rained 1 at. Light ¢ m Pkgs £0lden Seedless raisins Salt to taste Soak raisins ang Marshmallows Overnight 'N the €am. Fold in Carrots, Salt to taste, a d ad Some Sugar if Needed. |F alad ign' Moist enough, w ip Cream Into sal dressing nd add Until right Consistency, If too Moist, drain Slightly, Yield 5 Serv EASY PEACH SALAD ] tsp. Salt,! Pped tsp. Vinegar aC Prepared horse radish, draineq 2 tbsp. Sugar Fold alj ingredie nts xcept Peaches into Whipped cream. Lettuce leaf and fil] with SPoonfy| Of cr Place Peach halves on eam Mixture. Yield 50 Servings CHICKEN SALAD 2 tsp &ranulateq Chicken bouillon 7c diced celery 4 tsp Ot water I hard-b iled eggs 1 at. Salad dressing SMall jar PiMentos lly ip Cooked €lbo MacCaronj ly, qts Cooked frozen Peas Ibs. Dic d cook dc ICken Dissolve boullion in hot Water, beat into Salad dressing. Chill Cooked MaCaronj. Add to Other ingredients and mj thoroughly with dressing. Serve in lettuce Cups Or in SCOOped Out tomat €S. Yield 50 Servings. TOSSED SALAD 10 heads lettu » torn in bite-size 1 Medium SiZed gre N pepper Pleces thinly Sliced 5 bunches radishes, thinly Sliced 3 bunches lery, diced bs. Coarsely 8rated Carrots i bunch wat cress, Chopped Medium Onion, Sliced thin, S€parated Medium-sizeg tomatoes, Cut in thin into rings Wedges and draineq 2 Me€dium-sizeq cucumbers, thinly Sliced rite oj] and vinegar dressing Season to taste Yield 50 Servings NOTE: toaste bread Croutons: qWartereg hard-boileg eggs: bacon, fried Crisp and Crumble » May b added RICE FRUIT SALAD 2 ats. UNCOokeq rice ] larg Pkg Miniature Marshmallows amily size Dkg. Vanilla Puddin ly, qts iced raw UnPeeleq apples Coo CCOrding ¢ 'Tections 3c Suga 2 no. 2yY, Can Crush Pineapple Salt to taste rained 1 qt. Whipped Cream Cook rice @Ccording to directions Mix together with Pudding and Pineapple 4Nd coo dd Marsh WS, apples SU8ar and Salt to taste. Just be Ore servin Old jn hipped Crea Yield: ervin Variation: Se petit Macaronj in Place of riCe and add Chopped Maraschin €rries 4nd nuts. 761 OCTOBER 1965 CREAMY LIME SALAD 1 no. 10 can crushed pineapple, 2 qts. Creamed cottage cheese drained 1 qt. Mayonnaise 1 c. Lemon juice 1 qt. Finely chopped celery Drained pineapple juice and water to 1 pt. Chopped nuts make 2 qts. 4 tsp. Salt 1 qt. Lime-flavored gelatin 4 tsp. Grated lemon rind 4 tall cans evaporated milk, chilled Drain pineapple. Add lemon juice and enough water to pineapple syrup to make two quarts. Heat half of liquid to boiling. Pour over gelatin and stir until dissolved. Stir in remaining liquid and milk. Cool until partially set, stirring frequently to keep smooth. Blend cheese, pineapple, mayonnaise, celery, nuts, salt and lemon rind into gelatin mixture. Chill until firm, serve in squares on lettuce leaf. Yield: 50 servings. PEAR SALAD 1 c. Whipped cream 1 no. 2 can crushed pineapple, 1% c. Sugar drained 4 c. Mayonnaise 50 pear halves, canned and drained Whip cream until stiff. Add sugar. Fold into mayonnaise. Fold in pineapple and mix carefully. Serve on pear halves placed on lettuce leaves. A sprinkle of finely chopped nuts or a maraschino cherry may be added for decoration. CRANBERRY CREAM SALAD 1 Ib. Miniature marshmallows 1/3 c. Lemon juice 114 qts. Whole cranberry sauce 14, tsp. Salt 114 qts. Crushed pineapple, well 1 pt. Heavy cream, whipped drained Combine marshmallows, cranberries, pineapple, lemon juice, and salt. Mix thoroughly and fold in whipped cream. Chill several hours before serving or freeze to serve if desired. Serve in lettuce cups. Yield: 50 servings. LEMONADE SALAD 34, c. Unflavored gelatin 1 no. 10 can pineapple chunks, 1 32 oz. Can frozen lemonade drained concentrate 2 12 oz. Pkgs. Frozen strawberries water and pineapple syrup to make or 3 qts. 24 oz. Maraschino cherries mayonnaise with whipped cream added Soften gelatin in concentrated lemonade for five minutes. Heat water and syrup to boiling. Add gelatin and stir until dissolved. Cool until it begins to set. Add pineapple and berries or cherries which have been well drained. Pour into flat pans and chill until set. Serve in lettuce cups with mayonnaise to which whipped cream has been added. Yield: 50 servings each 2 in. Square. NOTE: For variation fruit salad mixture may be used in place of crushed 'or tidbit pineapple in any salad recipe. DATE MALLOW SALAD 10 c. Pineapple chunks, well drained 1 1/3 c. Mayonnaise 314% c. Dates cut in tiny pieces 5 heads lettuce 1 Ib. Miniature marshmallows 1 c. Coarsely chopped pecans 1 c. Heavy whipping cream Combine pineapple, dates, marshmallows. Whip cream until stiff and fold into mayonnaise. Fold into fruit and marshmallows. Chill. Place one-half cup of mixture on lettuce leaf for each serving. Sprinkle with tsp. Of nuts. May be decorated with a sprig of mint if desired. Yield: 50 servings. 762 THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT BASIC JEWEL SALAD 8 tbsp. Unflavored gelatin 2 c. Mild white vinegar 2 c. Cold water 14 c. Lemon juice 2 c. Hot water salt to taste 2c. Sugar 6 c. Pineapple juice Soften gelatin in cold water. Add hot water and stir until gelatin dissolves. Add sugar, vinegar, lemon juice, salt, and pineapple juice. Stir well and chill until it begins to thicken. Fold in combinations desired. Pour into pans and chill until set. Cut into squares, serve on lettuce leaf, garnish with mayonnaise. Combinations 8 c. Chopped cucumbers 8 c. Finely shredded cabbage 8 c. Canned pineapple tidbits 8 c. Fruit salad mixture or 1 pkg. Miniature marshmallows 8 c. Grated carrots or 8 c. Pineapple tidbits 8 c. Diced apples, unpeeled or 6 c. Diced celery 2 c. Chopped nutmeats Yield: 50 servings A For Three on an Autumn Beach Katherine F. Larsen May each child's sun-blessed world be beautiful For him alone; May each find unique treasure hour by hour— A polished stone, Sand dollars, starfish, cool shells shaped like ears, A rubbery strand Of wave-strewn kelp, gull feathers, driftwood chunks, Etchings in sand And may | cherish each eager look, each smile Turning my way; Each proffered marvel brought from abundant seas— Gifts of this day; Long silences filled with surf sound, shouts of joy Wafted on wind; —: - Small running footprints erased by water —~ -~ Downward thinned. And may each child meet swooping, curling waves Laughing, nor fear Rough-tumbling surf; then, red sun gone, When stars appear, Pricking a darkening sky, let brown toes spurn The swirling foam; ¥ Sunned bodies turn from those vast, chill seas To my hands—and home. 763 Every Day Is the Same Gene Prentice @ It was a beautiful day some years ago, when I said to a neighbor woman, "Good morning, how are you?" Without any hesitation or jest, she answered, "Every day is the same."' I don't know if it was her Boston accent or her tone of complete despair, but, somehow, this remark became locked in my memory. Could she have referred, I wondered, to the sunrise and sunset to the repeated tasks... Three meals to fix babies to be fed husband off to work and home again always at the same time and finally, bedtime? My thoughts, however, were soon lost in the din of laughter of my small children. I recalled this incident recently when we had a series of unfortunate events in our home, the last of which was a broken water heater. After unhappy days of inconvenience, my husband completed the repair of the tank. Once again, the water ran hot and clean into my washing machine, as I prepared to do the long overdue family laundry. Suddenly, the thought came to me, 'How grand it is to be able to wash clothes!" The smell of the fresh, clear water, the soap foaming in eager abundance, plus the quick churning of my machine, filled my heart with gladness. It was then that my thoughts turned back to that little woman. I saw again her wistful little face, as I recalled her bleak and empty answer. Once again, I wondered why the windows of her life had been so tightly closed as to admit no sunshine at all. Though each of us is, perhaps, guilty of feeling that life is sometimes dull and monotonous, if we were to reverse our thoughts, how great would be our joy. Do we really appreciate the sun which rises to brighten our day our eyes with which to see it our ability to enjoy it? Are we thankful as adults for our husbands, who share our lives... For precious children whose care brings such happiness... For the day so hot our lungs are scorched, the better to appreciate the rain... For the wintry winds to sweep the landscape clean are we aware of these things? 764 THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT Are we grateful enough for simple joys like the first sign of spring as a narcissus breaks the brown earth the song of a bird a waterfall the sound of a distant train whistle... The bright little face of a pansy... A baby's sweet breath... The fragrance of clean clothes... The sparkle of a fresh-washed window... A glowing fire... Buttered popcorn... A nursery rhyme... And Santa Claus? Do we take for granted the homes in which we live... Our Church our countries our schools? Finally, I thought, if every day is the same, thanks, dear Lord, for this, too. Thanks that I am able to grow by repetition... For my role as wife and mother... Thanks for the grass so green and trees so tall. Thanks for the noise and disorder of children who brighten my home. Thanks for their kisses and confidences. Thanks for my two hands with which to build. Thanks for the love in the eyes of a husband so fine and strong, and for the happiness which is ours. Thanks for our priceless Family Home Evenings. Thanks for the gospel and for God. How meaningless our lives would be without these blessings. And, as my thoughts winged on, I said softly, "Thank you, God, for that bright morning years ago and that wistful little woman." "Every day is the same," came the words again... And today I was privileged to grow a little. As I kneel tonight, I shall pray that she has somehow learned to enjoy richly the sameness of each day. And, dear Lord, may I add, "Thank you for prayer." Combing a Granddaughter's Hair Christie Lund Coles Like red-brown wings, the touch. Transports me backward to When | combed your mother's hair, How it lifted, flew Like softest milkweed fluff Blown by the wind, in sun, So warm, so soft, oh, child, Thus is a memory begun: Her young impatience, too, Her fair face lifted, turned; Her cheek close to my own. Such is a memory learned. And then, your smile of pride, Your kiss with love distilled; Your arms encircling me Thus is a hope fulfilled. 765 Gleanings From the Season of Harvest "'Lovely Growing Old'' oor lovely growing old' like an old house with a granite foundation and filled throughout with the patina of fond memories would be satisfying. There is loveliness in a face wrinkled and shadowed, in hair thinned and silvered, in hands roughened and blemished, when all are mellowed with gentleness and love coming from long service. Eyes that show suffering and forbearance, wet with tears of sympathy and understanding of the vicissitudes of life, and of the goodness of God in spite of all, are beautiful in a sense that young, sparkling eyes can never be. Shoulders stooped a little with life's storms, bodies thickened with hard work and the bearing of children are marks of a beautiful character. I have been known to say in times past, "I don't want to grow old, to show the wear of years, to be gray and wrinkled." Am I inconsistent? For I love old lines, old furniture, old houses, old laces, old silver. If I can be lovely growing old, I am sure I shall be ready for it as I see it approaching. —Caroline Eyring Miner The Hardy Ones b= us not laugh at the small, scrubby flower living precariously away from a flower garden. It has had to fight for its chance with weeds and drought. It may be small and gnarled, but it smiles brightly in a hard place. It is the hardy one, and it has seeds that may grow tall and strong and straight, bringing beauty down the generations. Such hardy ones among people were the pioneers, who came to the hard places and made them beautiful for us, their children. —Celia Luce imperishable Splendor | WALKED once in Bohemia's aged forests, through the wild-rose scented grove, through hovering leaves. I found ecarth's beauty, oh, so grand! My soul was touched by its imperishable splendor. I knelt in a prayer of reverence for this glorious bloom of spring, the handwork of him who has also enriched our hearts with song, wisdom, and undying faith. It is through life's difficulties that we receive our greatest education and are made to realize its values. In later years we can make the greatest use of this education as we live in the golden sunset of harvest time. Let us strive always to know ourselves — our gifts and our talents, however small — and to use them for the enrichment of all. —Pauline M. Bell 766 The Diligent Gardener A certain man planted a good seed, cultivated, and irrigated it. Soon it flourished and spread. The results were profuse growth in every direction. Other plants and forms of life with which it came in contact became more healthy and alive. But, in another place, a man was not particular in the choice of seed which he planted. Nor did he irrigate and weed his field. The results were smaller plants, hardly surviving in spots, and certainly not giving much beauty to plants with which they came in contact. So it is with the gospel of Jesus Christ and its effect upon our lives. By an active desire to increase knowledge and serve, our lives may become abundant. Others, too, will benefit. But by personal indifference our lives and the lives of others with whom we come in contact will be much more barren. —Colleen Layland She spends a week end with Kathy, her roommate, at the Kirk family farm and becomes interested in the family, at the hospital, Joan hears a siren and @ Joan was at the door of the emergency entrance almost as soon as the ambulance was, Her heart was pounding frantically. Who is it? She kept asking herself. Oh, why don't they hurry? It seemed as if it took so very long to open the doors at the back of the vehicle and lower the stretcher to the cement driveway. It's someone little, she told herself, for she could just see a small head against the whiteness of the sheet. It's a little boy, she now knew... Aloud she said, "It's Joey." Joan was still inside the big glass doors of the hospital, and she knew she must stay there. She had no business running out to help them roll the stretcher as she wanted to. She knew she couldn't go too near until after 768 he was admitted properly, though every part of her wanted to take the child and hold him close. Kathy, she thought. I must get Kathy. And she was about to, when she saw Mr. And Mrs. Kirk pull into the driveway. Mrs, Kirk was crying. Not a heavy cry, but a silent one, and her eyes were swollen. They got out and followed the men and the stretcher through the doors. "Mrs. Kirk, what happened? Do you feel like telling me?" Joan put her arm around the woman, who just shook her head. "He fell from a horse," Mr. Kirk said. "Tl go get Kathy." Joan hurried toward the elevator. The second floor nurse station was as it usually was, two or three nurses writing, phoning, talking quietly. Joan looked at Kathy. She wished she didn't have to tell her, but she knew she did. "Kathy, come with me," she said, and held out her hand. "All right, just a jiffy." "Now, Kathy, please." Kathy looked at Joan, and then her face mirrored what she saw in Joan's eyes. "What's wrong, Joan?" "T']] tell you on the way.' The other nurses looked and questioned, but Joan felt that Kathy wouldn't want to be told for all to hear. She felt that the first shock of the news would be better told as the two hurried towards the emergency ward. "It's Joey. He's been hurt." Joan still held Kathy's hand, and as she felt the younger nurse's fingers close tightly, she wished there were something she could do to comfort her. "What happened? How bad?" 'He fell from a horse. He's still unconscious." bd THEY quickly went to the left wing on the bottom floor, Kathy silent, Joan searching for the right words. "Things always seem worse at first,'' she said, but when they got to the side of the little figure now on the hospital bed in the emergency room, they both knew he wouldn't be all right. "Mama, oh, Mama," Kathy's words were just above a whisper. "How did it happen?" "He fell off." "He was trying to keep up with the others."" Mr. Kirk had his hat in his hand, and kept turning it around by the brim. "Have they told you anything yet?" "No." RING AROUND HER HEART "Oh, Mama." Joan suddenly realized she didn't belong there. Little Joey was her friend, but she, was not part of his family and had no reason to stand there listening to his family talk and watching for a sign on his little face watching for a flicker of an eyelid. She slipped out into the hall and they didn't even seem to notice she was gone. For a moment she just stood there and then, as she turned to go, Doctor Desmond was suddenly beside her. "I just got the call, Joan. They told me is it someone Kathy knows?" "It's little Joey. Oh, he's bad, Doctor Desmond, very bad." The Doctor didn't say anything more. He hurried into the room and closed the door behind him. Joan walked slowly down the hall towards the small waiting room. She was about to sit down and wait for news, when she saw Doctor Niles come towards her. "How is he? Is my sister here?" "Yes, in there." "They told me he fell off a horse." "Yes, he's still unconscious." Doctor Niles went into the room, also closing the door. Joan wanted to go to the door and pound on it with her fists. She wanted to be a part of what was going on. She wanted to belong, wished she could feel again the warmth of Joey's little arms around her neck. She couldn't just sit and wait, so she went back to the second floor. The nurses were waiting for Joan when she got there. She tried to sound calm as she told them it was Kathy's little brother who was hurt. She also wanted to 769 OCTOBER 1965 tell them that he was her special little friend, but she didn't. She went about her routine with a sickness inside her, and each time the elevator door opened, she expected to see them bringing Joey up for surgery. But they didn't bring him. The afternoon became evening, and she couldn't find anything more to busy herself with, so she went back down to the first floor. She had to know. "Ts there any word on the Kirk boy?" she asked of the floor nurse. "Nothing yet. They have really been working on him." "Any order for surgery prep?" "RS,?" "How about X-ray?" "Not yet." Joan bit her lip. This was bad, for she knew that if Doctor Desmond hadn't ordered X-rays or surgery, the child was losing ground. I feel so helpless, she thought, just like the other times. When the door finally opened, she hurried towards it. It was Doctor Desmond. "How is he?" "Very bad, Joan. He's not going to make it." He stepped over to the desk and said something to the floor nurse. Joan just stood there. The tears were spilling over, and she didn't even wipe them away. They were somehow soothing to her. She turned away so the doctor wouldn't see her cry. It seemed hours before the door opened again and Kathy came out with her mother and father. "You must get some rest,"' she was telling them. "I'll stay with him." Joan watched as Kathy took them to a little room down the 770 hall where Mrs. Kirk could lie down. When Kathy came back, Joan hurried to her. "Kathy, let me stay with him. You should get some rest, too." "T'm all right, Joan. Thanks." "Please, Kathy. It might be better for Joey if you left." "T've told Mom I'd stay." Doctor Desmond came over to them. He put his arm around Kathy's shoulders. "Come on, Kathy, let me take you to your room. I'll tell you immediately if there's any change." Kathy let him take her by the hand, and they went down the hall together. J oANn stepped into the dim room. The little form on the bed was so still that it frightened her. She sat beside Joey and began to talk softly to him, but he did not stir. And the night passed in unreality. The nurses who came silently with their tiny flashlights, checking and changing the upside down bottles of clear liquid which dripped through tubes, were like figures in a stage play. The silent figures in white who came to take temperatures and wrap the wide gray cloth around the tiny arm and squeeze the bulb to see if there were any change in the blood pressure, were like characters from a long-ago book. Even Doctor Desmond and Kathy and Mr. And Mrs. Kirk, who hovered near through the night, seemed unreal. "Joan, you need to go get some rest."" Doctor Desmond had come in again, and she felt his hand on her shoulder, gentle and warm. She felt like reaching up and putting her hand on top of his, but she didn't. She just stood up and, feelin & herself Close to ried 0 tears, hurut into the hal]. S Joan Walked alon Way to her "Well room, David came towards her, "yj; » hot for awhile." agreed. "yo 1 Iss Morgan, how's Joey? Any change?" "No » NO change." | "You look tired." | 6é i oe. "T mean I don't Want to g0 am. Will you report for me? Home, ever," Tel] them I'll be on duty in a Couple of hours 4 O that alone? Tell me that, Miss Morgan, How; 0) anything alone?" "Tom, Seems rea] 00d to me too." take first th; "Vou can es therapy. Pll come for you at two be £0ing home pretty 1 Soon, now." "No." OCTOBER 1965 Doctor Desmond had entered the room. "Good morning, Tom." Joan stood up, and without thinking, she asked, ''How's Joey?" "He's he's just the same." His voice said the words, but there was a warning look about his eyes, and suddenly she knew why. She had broken the most elementary rule in the book. She had discussed a patient in front of another patient. "Joey Kirk?" Tom asked, and Joan went sick all over. She had forgotten that Tom was Kirk's neighbor. "Yes. Joey had a little -accident. But he will be all right." Doctor Desmond looked at Joan, then back to Tom. "How's that studying coming along?" "Pretty good. What happened to Joey? Is he hurt bad?" "Yes, Tom. He's hurt pretty bad...."' The doctor's voice was steady, but Joan could feel his anger. She wished she could disappear into the woodwork. "Miss Morgan, is he going to be all right? How did he get hurt?" "He he fell off a horse," Joan told him, "but he " and she tried to tell him that Joey would be all right, but she couldn't. "'He's not going to be all right, is he?" Tom looked from Joan to the doctor and back again. "Is he?" he shouted. "Tom, you mustn't get so upset." Joan got up and went to the boy. She put her hand on his arm. 772 "But you've got to tell me." "We don't know yet," Doctor Desmond told him. "It will take a little while to find out." "T heard the siren last night, and I wondered who it was." Tom turned to the wall. "Little Joey. He was Richard's best friend. They were always together." "And they will be again," Doctor Desmond told him. Tom didn't answer. "I'll be back at two, Tom," Joan said, and turned to go. Doctor Desmond went with her. "I'm sorry," Joan said when they were out in the hall. "Don't worry about it what's done is done." "Ts Richard Tom's little brother?" ""Veas,"' They walked a little way before Doctor Desmond said he hoped that knowing about Joey wouldn't undo all the good she'd done with Tom. "T don't think it will," she told him. "In fact, it might make him want to go home. He might feel the need to be there with his little brother and sisters." Doctor Desmond didn't say anything for a while, then he turned and smiled at her. "'I dare not disagree with you anymore, you've been so right about Tom so far." They stopped walking and faced each other, and for just a moment Joan thought he was going to say something, but the call from the emergency room for Doctor Desmond, sent them both hurrying to the first floor. (To be continued) Relief Society Activities All material submitted for publication in this department through the stuke Kelef Society presidents or mission Helrel idents or supervisers, and should be addressed the fulite Rehef Society Magazine, 76 North Main, Salt Lak regulations governing the submittal of Notes From the Field in | 1964 issue of t M ] Beaver Stake (Utah) Visiting Teacher Convention April 1, 1965 Lucille A. Murdock, President, Beaver Stake Relief Society, reports: "In spite of a severe snowstorm, we had fifty per cent attendance. This is quite remarkable when you consider the fact that out of the 216 visiting teachers, forty of them are past eighty years of age, and 105 are past seventy years of age. Kleda Gillins, stake visiting teacher leader, was in charge of the dramatization 'The Lighted Path,' which was given very effectively. Susie Beeson, First Counselor, spoke to the sisters regarding the duties and blessings attendant to their calls. Each visiting teacher was presented with a small gift and a booklet containing the summer messages. Refreshments were in charge of Zona Myers, Second Counselor." 773 OCTOBER 1965 Santa Barbara Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Concert May 22, 1965 Second row, standing, left to right: Gladys B. Carmack, President, Santa Barbara Stake Relief Society; Lillian Johnson, chorister; Gloria Dixon Strauss, violin soloist; Marcine Camp Jardine, vocal soloist. Third row, second from the left: Byrdenne Johnson, organist. Sister Carmack reports: "One hundred Singing Mothers of the Santa Barbara Stake inspired an audience of about 1,000 members and nonmembers, in the high school auditorium, presenting a concert of sacred and secular numbers. The chorus rehearsed two and three days a week for several months, many traveling thirty to forty miles for each rehearsal. Not only do we feel that we presented a cultural program for the community, but the proceeds, amounting to about $1,400, will help build our new stake center." Wilford Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Relief Society Beauty School Project May 7 and June 7, 1965 "Before" and "after" pictures, left to right: Erika Rabe "top specialist"; Elsie Fudge as "Sysie'; Sara Paulsen as "Friend." Elna Hart Palmer, President, Wilford Stake Relief Society, reports: "The two pictures represent the before and ajter of 'Susie' at a Relief Society Beauty School given on May 7th for the daytime Relief Society, and on June 7th for the evening Relief Society. The skit illustrates how the beauty specialists help Susie with her problems. A style expert showed Susie how to sew for herself and how to teach her daughters to sew, and thus establish a closer bond between them; a literature expert presented the poem 'Opportunity', and a talent expert explained how Susie could hecome more self-confident. A theology expert explained the worth of a testimony of the gospel; and a social science expert discussed the benefits of the Family Home Evening, and that all should be 'doers of the word.' "The Singing Mothers sang and other numbers were presented by special groups. Thirty sisters modeled clothing they had made in the daytime program, and thirty mothers of teenage daughters modeled in the evening. Luncheon was served to over 500 women, and refreshments to 300 working women, husbands, and teenagers in the evening. Many non-Latter-day Saint and non-active women were present at each performance." Billings Stake (Montana) Singing Mothers Present Spring Musicale May 8, 1965 Seated in the front row, left to right, members of Billings Stake Relief Society board: Alvera O. White, Secretary-Treasurer, Nola B. Larsen, Second Counselor; Helen O. 'Thomas, President; Nellie T. Prindle, First Counselor; Maud J. DeVore; Lucy C. Taylor; Dixie R. Marasok; Agnes C. Crow; Julaine J. Cozzens, organist; Helen J. Peacock, chorister. Sister Thomas reports: "The Singing Mothers of Billings Stake presented a 'Spring Musicale—Let There Be Music' on May 8th. From the vibrant tones of the opening number 'Let There Be Music' to the grand finale 'This Is My Country, it was a grand and glorious experience. Most of our wards and branches and our night Relief Society furnished one number each, and the combined chorus sang the opening number, the closing number, and 'As Angels in Heaven.' The songs were in four categories: the home; semi-classic; sacred; and patriotic. Mildred Wilson was the narrator." 774 OCTOBER 1965 Gridley Stake (California), Chico Ward "Heritage Anniversary Party" March 1965 Author and cast of play "Now Let Us Rejoice." left to right: Marilyn Prusse; Virginia Dukelow; Beulah Astle; Margaret Mosier (standing), author and producer; Evelyn Hendershott; Ramona Dalling. Rena G. Jenkins, President, Gridley Stake Relief Society, reports: "The 'Heritage Anniversary Party' presented by the Chico Ward Relief Society was the result of hours of willing service by many sisters on different committees. Activities planned to develop the theme of the evening were the following: a pioneer fare dinner, with small 19th century leather-bound editions of the classics on each table. These precious books were loaned by courtesy of the Richard Dukelow family. A focal point of interest was a display of family heirlooms of various members. The high point of the evening was an original one-act play 'Now Let Us Rejoice,' written and produced by Margaret Mosier. It included a scene from pioneer life, then the whole group became a part of a 'Harvest Home Party.' Here there was square dancing and a look at the ward's 'Family Album.' This was a series of projected early photos of ward members. The evening was closed by group participation in singing of old-time songs. Greatly contributing to the spirit of the occasion were the pioneer costumes worn by many of those attending." Minnesota Stake Presents Program "Relief Society Has Something for Everyone" April 16, 1965 Nursery scene, left to right: Susan Williams; Christine Barrus; nursery leader Hannah Hoffman; Scott Stafford; Susan Barrus. Rose Garden scene, models, left to right: Bonny Solie; Patricia Zollinger; Geraldine Jermasek; Barbara Gellert. Vondo O. Williams, President, Minnesota Stake Relief Society, reports: "In the rose garden foyer, work meeting items were displayed, such as creative handicrafts. Foods for fun, and articles made from ideas found in The Relief Society Magazine. Stake Education Counselor Carol Jardine, and stake Work Counselor LaNay Davis spearheaded the program, with the assistance of stake board members and the sisters of the eleven wards and branches. The objective was to introduce the purpose and activities of Relief Society to husbands, friends, and nonmembers. In addition to the nursery and work meeting displays, scenes were presented from theology, visiting teaching, literature, social science, and The Relief Society Magazine. Renewed interest was created by the Singing Mothers as they presented a variety of musical numbers. An original composition 'Relief Society Song' by stake organist Jane A. Peterson climaxed the program." Glasgow Stake (Scotland) Visiting Teacher Convention March 31, 1965 Barbara Heede. President, Glasgow Stake Relief Society (seated at the right in the front row), reports that all of the sisters in the picture, except two, are visiting teachers. The visiting teacher message leader was unable to attend the evening the picture was taken. 776 OCTOBER 1965 Rose Park Stake (Sait Lake City, Utah) "Swing Into Spring" Fashion Show April 7, 1965 Back row, Standing, left to right, ward counselors: Janice J. Anderson; Dorothy B. Hart; Helen oO. Callahan: Barbara P. Newman; Dorothy B. Monson; Polly TSteenblik: Elaine Madsen; Myrle P. Goff: Bergliot P. Thompson: 778 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 779 Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 68—Knowledge and Events of the Future (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 88:76-116) For First Meeting, January 1966 Objective: To learn the importance of missionary preparation; the place of education in the gospel; and of events of the future predicted. INTRODUCTION Among the many great truths revealed in Section 88, known as the "Olive Leaf," is the promise of seeing the Savior in his own time and in his own way, provided that the Church member will keep his mind single to God that light may dissipate darkness from mind and body (D&C 88: 67-68). With this counsel before the elders, they were admonished to assemble themselves together that they might purify their hearts in preparation for their ministry assignments (Verses 70- 75). PRAYER AND FASTING Immediately following these admonitions, the Lord commanded that his people fast and pray. Prayer and fasting have often 780 been counseled with many beneficial results promised. Elder James E. Talmage points out that faith is developed with the power to do good when one follows this counsel (Jesus the Christ, page 395; see also Mark 9:14-29). Alma received a testimony of the truth by fasting and praying over a long period of time (Alma 5:46). In order to qualify in missionary service there is a need to seek the Lord humbly through this method. Alma_ records that the sons of Mosiah, through diligent study and because "they had given themselves to much prayer and fasting," had the spirit of prophecy "and the spirit of revelation, and when they taught, they taught with power and authority of God" (Alma 17:2-3). One of the many benefits of fasting is to prepare one for sincere and humble prayer. The Lord, through his prophets, has instituted the fast day with its opportunity for devout prayer that the membership of his Church might realize, at least monthly, the benefits of this kind of devotion (D&C 88:76; Alma 6:6; 3 Nephi 27:1; Moroni 6:5). President David O. McKay indicated that fasting from two meals once each month and giving the value of these meals for the relief of those in need is the application of Jesus' teachings. (Conference Report, April 1932, page 65). The Prophet Joseph Smith emphasized the need for all to know God through prayer and to pray over one's temporal possessions (DHC V:31). This counsel joins prayer to keeping the commandments in bringing forth the blessings of the Father. Real intent is the measure of success in prayer and in all of one's devotions (Moroni 7:6-8). TEACH ONE ANOTHER In one of the better known admonitions from Section 88 is the counsel to teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom (D&C 88:77). Following this counsel to the early Church, the Lord pointed out the need to become schooled in all things that pertain to the kingdom of God (Verses 78-79). The foregoing advice was given to brethren who had been and would yet proclaim the gospel, as is evident from the verses which follow: That ye may be prepared in all things when I shall send you again to LESSON DEPARTMENT magnify the calling whereunto I have called you, and the mission with which I have commissioned you. Behold, I sent you out to testify and warn the people, and it becometh every man who hath been warned to warn his neighbor (Verses 80-81). In terms of missionary preparation, with what should the missionary become acquainted in following this instruction to be prepared by study? It is evident from the foregoing verses that the Lord wanted his servants, who were to warn and to testify of the restoration of the gospel, to learn those things which would be of greatest value in discharging this responsibility. Here are the essentials from verses 78 and 79, above: First and foremost, to learn of the law of the gospel that pertains to the kingdom of God, insofar as it was expedient for them to know. This is the study of the principles and ordinances of salvation, which, of course, includes those great moral precepts that should ever guide the Latterday Saint. President Brigham Young said: There are a great many branches of education: some go to college to learn languages, some to study law, some to study physics, and some to study astronomy, and various other branches of science. We want every branch of science taught in this place that is taught in the world. But our favorite study is that branch which particularly belongs to the Elders of Israel — namely, theology. Every Elder should become a profound theologian — should understand this branch better than all the world. There is no Elder who has the power of God upon him but understands more of the principles of theology than all the world put together (Journal of Discourses 6:317). 781 OCTOBER 1965 come to pass (e) "Things which are at home" To the elders abroad in 1833, this Counsel was given: - +». Apply yourselves diligently to Study, that your minds may be stored with all necessary information (DHC 1: 469), ANOTHER APPLICATION It is true that verses 77 79, and In Prophesying that Zion will be ahead of the world ven in secular learning (lbid., 21:100 The Because Latter-day Saints believe that the temporal affairs of life have their spiritual meaning, the incentive to become educated is given greater stimulus (D&C 29:34-35). It seems necessary, always, to keep in mind that the salvation principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ save in this life and in the life to come and should never be neglected in preference to secular learning as such. MISSIONARY RESPONSIBILITY The missionary prepared to teach the principles of salvation and to learn the essentials of his environment in further preparing himself, is told that he should testify and warn the people. Today, as in 1832, all are to make known the principles of the gospel. This responsibility, so discharged, would free the missionary from the blood of his generation and leave the world without excuse (/bid., 88:81-82). Those people who would come to the Lord early would never be forsaken by him (Verse 83; Lesson 37, Relief Society Magazine, November 1961). BE FREE To be a true disciple of the Lord is to be free (John 8:31- 32). The elders of the Church were to continue in the freedom which they had received through the gospel of Jesus Christ. The converts of 1832 had come out of the world to become citizens of the kingdom of God. To them the Lord addressed these words: Abide ye in the liberty wherewith ye are made free; entangle not yourselves in sin, but let your hands be clean, until the Lord comes (D&C 88:86). LESSON DEPARTMENT In terms of the person's purpose in life, true freedom is to be free from those practices which hinder one from advancing on to the goal of eternal perfection. When the Prophet Joseph Smith defined salvation, he said: '"Salvation is nothing more nor less than to triumph over all our enemies and put them under our feet" (DHC V:387). Examples of man's enemies are the antonyms of the virtues such as those found in Section 4—skepticism, ignorance, hate, intolerance, fear, selfishness, and so forth. Members of the Church have found a new life in Jesus Christ through the benefits of release from the bondage of sin into freedom, a freedom which must be continually maintained through prayer, activity in the Church, and obedience to the other commandments. Habits and practices which bring one into bondage are contrary to the freedom which the gospel teaches one should seek. "Entangle not yourselves in sin" (D&C 88:86). The words of Elder James E. Talmage suggest to one that the person who lives close to sin in printed material, television, movies, etc., may soon find himself in bondage. Hosts of capable souls have heedlessly put themselves into the enemy's power by yielding to the treacherous invitation to fraternize with sin. Such a one is made welcome in the camp of the foe, and at first a visitor, he sooner or later awakens to the fact that he is a prisoner, and withal a deserter from the ranks of patriotism and honor (The Vitality of Mormonism, 1948 ed., page 335). UNTIL THE LORD COMES From the beginning of this dispensation, the warning voice of 783 OCTOBER 1965 the Lord has been uttered in revelation and the fulfillment of the prophecies by disturbances on the earth (D&C 1:35; 29:14-21: 43:18-27: 45:26-42), Similar warnings of judgments to come were given in 1839 and the Lord's Prophets since then have called upon all to repent lest these judgments come upon them. The First Presidency of 1949 President George Albert Smith, J. Reuben Clark, Jr., David O. McKay) indicated that 5,000 missionaries were proclaiming the Sospel in the world, and their purPose was stated as: warned the People as follows (D&C 88: 89-91 quoted). As_ the Heavenly Father, we admonish people Following the predicted earthquakes, wars, floods, and commotion among the inhabitants of the earth, angels are to fly through the heavens crying, prepare ye for the Bridegroom cometh (D&C 88:92). THE SIGN OF THE SON OF MAN When the Savior was asked concerning the Signs of his comIng in the last days, he replied by mentioning several of these signs, one of which was "the Sign of the 784 last days, this sign shall be seen by all What is this sign? The Prophet " second coming and said that the Lord would reveal his intent to his Servants the prophets Concerning the judgments, -.. There will be wars and rumors of wars, Signs. In the heavens above and on the earth beneath, the sun be as the light of the morning cometh out of the east (DHC V: 387). THE SEVEN TRUMPS Seven angels are to sound their trumps, each trump marking an event, beginning with the binding of the apostate church. Then silence will reign for half an hour, Preparatory to the second coming of the Lord, At his advent the Tessurrection of celestial beings will occur, followed by the resurrection of the terrestrial beings, The millenium will come when the Savior and men shall live jn peace and _ righteousness for a thousand years. At the end of that period, telestial persons wil] Come from their graves, and, finally, after the millennium, the sons of perdition will: be resurrected (D&C 88:94-102: Lesson Society Magazine, August 1965). The revelation continues with the remaining three trumps, announcing that all shall worship LESSON DEPARTMENT aker "foy the hour Of the €nd of the millenium, for the ls jJudgm is come" (D&C gg fina] Conflict. Michae » Or Adam 103-104) "nouncement of the Sevent ngel, even the arch fall of B lon or Wickednegs will ngel, Shal] Sather together his follow With the triump ant cry armies, eve the hosts of heaven by the Seventh ange] to battle Against Satan and his -« It is finished: it jg finished! The armies (D&C 88:171 13), Lamb of od hath Overcome and trodAnd then cometh battle of the en the Wine-presg alon even the great God: the vil and ies Wine-presgs of the €rceness of the armies shal] be cast aWay into their Wrath of Alm; htly G (Verse 106). Own place, that they Shall not have PoOWer over the Saint t ALL THINGS TO BE KNOWN all. El ae During the millenium the solu For Michael] Shall fight their battles ion of an vexing Problems and shall 6 Concerning the earth and its jinhabitants l me him who seeketh ne of him Who sitte will be Sven (D&C the thron e 101:32-34). The Lo Inal defeat of the evil and his followers, they will stence since Adam's € Cast into hel] Which wag prefall, men's acts have been recordPared for hem fro th begined. The Tevealing of € secret ning (Jb; 29:38. 44). Then acts of men and "th Oughts follow the Sounding of the last and intents Of their hearts" and three angels' try p already menthe mighty orks of God in each loned, "Nouncing he Judgment One of these Seven Periods, Will the fall g Wickedne » and the occur during the millennia] period rlumph God's Ork for the Of peace and therhoo upon Salvation of men (Lh; 88:103-. © earth (16; » 88:108-1; 77: 07). ~/, 12: Lesson 56, Relief Society a€azine, February 1964), QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSsion 1. What are some benefits of fasting POST-MILLENNiAL EVENTS and praying? | The last éreat effort of Satan at 7 hay fo, that | 0 ascend to he throne of God O atter-day Saint belief regardWill come wh € is loosed at the ing education? End of the millenniy LA 2reat 3. Hy is our dispensation 4 period Ivision among the People will re. — verano i Joma Sult whe Satan reigns for a little hat did Sus mean When lees Season. He Will gath r together Said: "A © Shall know the Is forces Mprising the Spirits truth, and the truth shall make peo follo ed hi inthe nes 5 Dae a events ee) as Mortal] World OSe Morta] ollowing the mil] nnium until Who 4postatized fro the tr uth at he force of evil are ©vercome. 785 Tvant beca Wicked use he Mploy hig PoOsses. Sions advantageoy y. Ul ten per cent of our abilities and TY the potential]. One Teason for this jg or example, Lord tells ys "Six ingly active. He is painstakingly busy and diligent and is devoted to lawful and useful labor. We should all be eternally grateful for the blessings of work and for the development that purposeful industry brings to each of us. Charles Kingsley has said, "Thank God every morning when you get up that you have something to do that day which must be done, whether you like it or not. Being forced to work, and foresu to do your best, will breed in you temperance and self-control, diligence and strength of will, cheerfulness and content, and a hundred virtues which the idle never know" (as quoted in Marler, Ezra L.: Golden Nuggets of Thought, Volume II, page 148). Without doubt the most effective medicine to heal discontent and drive away discouragement is purposeful and diligent work. Most of us have within us the necessary power for useful, progressive and successful lives. If we apply the abilities which may lie dormant within us, our powers LESSON DEPARTMENT for accomplishment will develop and grow. We are now living during a period of remarkable opportunities, when the Lord has poured out his spirit upon the inhabitants of the earth. It is a glorious and choice opportunity for each of us to be a part of this great progress, and to be able, through industry and work, to make our small, but most important contribution. For our own happiness and success, we should heed this commandment of the Lord as stated in the Doctrine and Covenants 88:124. We must not fritter away our time in useless, idle, and unimportant pursuits. If we are industrious we will aspire, plan, organize, concentrate, use our initiative, analyze, and accomplish. These are the ingredients of constructive work and the tools of satisfying success. Let us, then, be up and doing, With a heart for any fate; Still achieving, still pursuing, Learn to labor and to wait. (Longfellow, "Psalm of Life') WORK MEETING The Work Meeting Discussion for January 1966 will appear in the November issue of the Magazine. 787 SOCIAL SCIENCE—Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 1 (No. 13 in Series) Priesthood in the Life of Every Latter-day Saint Woman For Third Meeting, January 1966 Objective: To show how the Latter-day Saint woman shares INTRODUCTION TO 1966 LESSONS In January 1965 the "Teaching the Gospel in the Home" lessons were introduced as a course of study designed to correlate with lessons being studied by Melchizedek Priesthood quorums. Lesson 1 also stated that the lessons supported the Home Teaching Program of the Church. It was felt that through this course and this correlation, the Latter-day Saint woman would understand more clearly her role as wife and mother and would be encouraged to support her husband in his spiritual leadership of the family. It was hoped that through this correlation of lessons, the roles of the father and the mother would be more clearly understood; that parents would work unitedly in teaching the principles of the gospel to their children and would strive earnestly to bring a fulness of the gospel into their home. An understanding of the roles of father and of mother requires a consideration of the various 788 in the blessings of the Priesthood. Relationships of the family—husband to wife, parents to children, children to children. Some obligations of each member of the family, and of the family as a unit to the Church and to the community were discussed in the lessons. The social science lessons for 1966 will continue to correlate with those being studied by the Melchizedek Priesthood quorums. They will represent, in general, the woman's position in relation to some of the subjects with which they correlate. Relief Society sisters will be in an advantageous position in the first lesson, which deals with the Priesthood, having recently completed a well-prepared and wellwritten course on the nature and function of Priesthood as an instrument for Church government. They are, therefore, generally familiar with the operation of Priesthood as the "power of God delegated to man by which man can act in the earth for the salvation of the human family, in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost, and act legitimately" (WIDTSOE, JOHN A.: Priesthood and Church Government, page 33). They are familiar with the statement that "the Church itself is a product of Priesthood" and the means through which the Eternal Father accomplishes his divine purposes. LESSON FOLLOW-UP Invite several members of the class to report on their efforts to make their 1965 observation of Christmas more meaningful and in keeping with its purpose, as suggested in the December lesson. THIS LESSON Since the first unit of Priesthood quorum lessons deals with the subject of Priesthood, this lesson will likewise deal with some phases of this great power. It will be, of necessity, largely doctrinal, and will consider 1. Priesthood as an eternal blessing to all of God's children. 2. The specific blessings of. Priesthood in which a woman may share. PRIESTHOOD AN ETERNAL BLESSING TO ALL President Brigham Young had this to say about the Priesthood of the Son of God:.. It is the law by which the worlds are, were, and will continue for ever and ever. It is that system which brings worlds into existence and peoples them, gives them their revolutions—their days, weeks, months, years, their seasons and times and by which they are rolled up as a scroll, as it were, and go into a higher state of existence (Discourses of Brigham Young. Page 130). The power of all truth dwells in the bosom of our Father and God, which he dispenses to his children as LESSON DEPARTMENT he will, by the means of his eternal Priesthood. He is enthroned in the light, glory and power of truth. The Gospel and the Priesthood are _the means he employs to save and exalt his obedient children to the possession with him of the same glory and power to be crowned with crowns of glory, immortality and_ eternal lives (Ibid., page 5). It is impossible for us to comprehend the full significance of the foregoing quotations. It is clearly evident, however, that all who live upon the earth, female as well as male, are beneficiaries of the blessings of the Priesthood. Men have no greater claim than women upon the blessings that issue from the Priesthood and accompany its possession. Woman does not hold the Priesthood, but she is a partaker of the blessings of the Priesthood. That is, the man holds the Priesthood, performs the priestly duties of the Church, but his wife enjoys with him every other privilege derived from the possession of the Priesthood (WIDTSOE. JOHN A.: Priesthood and Church Government, page 83). It is evident that a woman is blessed by this great, eternal power because she is a daughter of God. The following scripture, moreover, among others, indicates that the blessings do not apply to this world only. She always has been a recipient of these blessings and, if obedient to the gospel teaching, will be blessed through the power of the Priesthood throughout eternity. "Now this same _ Priesthood, which was in the beginning, shall be in the end of the world also" (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 6:7). SPECIFIC BLESSINGS IN MORTALITY What are the specific blessings of Priesthood which may come to 789 OCTOBER 1965 a daughter of God _ through ordinances performed by a bearer of the Priesthood who is delegated to act with authority? What are the occasions which bring into focus these specific blessings? 1. Blessing as an infant. 2. Baptism and confirmation. 3. Receiving a patriarchal blessing. 4. Administration by Priesthood in times of illness. 5. Other special blessings. 6. Personal endowment. 7. Celestial marriage. 8. Opportunity to perform vicarious temple work for the dead. 9. Set apart by Priesthood when giving specific callings in the Church. From the above listed blessings we see that from infancy to the end of earth-life and into eternity, a Latter-day Saint girl-child is a recipient of numerous and specific blessings through the Priesthood of God. As an infant she may receive a father's blessing and a name by which she will be known among her associates. This ordinance is performed by authority of the Priesthood. Her baptism and confirmation with the bestowal of the Holy Ghost admit her into the Church. These blessings are special blessings, received only through the delegated power of the Priesthood. As her father and brothers who bear the Priesthood, she, too, may be given a patriarchal blessing which may be a guide, inspiration, and comfort to her throughout her life. She may receive the administration of the Priesthood in times of illness or on other occasions, when the sustaining influence and help of the Lord through the authority of the Priesthood are especially needed. 790 She may realize how her own abilities are augmented as a result of her faith in the Priesthood, when a blessing is given her if she is set apart for some specific calling in the Church. The opportunity of entering the House of the Lord in receiving her own endowments and the opportunity of the sacred ceremony of celestial marriage are two of the greatest of God's blessings to her. By the side of the companion of her choice, the Latter-day Saint woman may experience the culminating Priesthood ordinance in this life, the efficacy of these ordinances being dependent upon faithfulness. BLESSINGS AVAILABLE The home where husband or father holds and honors the Priesthood, is greatly blessed. All family relationships are influenced for good, all problems tempered where parents seek the help and guidance to which the Priesthood entitles them. For those women whose husbands have not as yet embraced the gospel truth, there are still blessings derived from Priesthood which are available to them, such as baptism, confirmation, the patriarchal, and other special blessings. Upon them perhaps rests a greater responsibility—to rear their children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord as this opportunity is available to them. They may also enjoy the counsel of their Home Teachers and of their bishops who have been commissioned to use their Priesthood for the benefit and blessing of members of the ward. HONORED AND BLESSED Women have been greatly blessed through the role given to them by the Creator. To Mary, a "daughter of Eve," he entrusted the mothering of his Only Begotten Son. Women who joyously accept the role of motherhood and who fill it with competence and righteous insight realize great satisfactions in this life and eternal joy in the life hereafter. Women who through no fault of their own cannot exercise the gift of motherhood, directly, may do _ so vicariously. Motherhood may be exercised as universally and vicariously as Priesthood. Countless neglected children are in need of motherly LESSON DEPARTMENT care (WIDTSOE, JOHN A.: Priesthood and Church Government, page 85). Is there an earthly experience for a woman more soul satisfying than that of rearing to righteous adulthood a spirit child of God? FOR DISCUSSION Questions which arise during the development of this lesson. FOR HOME DOING (Children in the home) Consider the many blessings available to family members. Check to see if all the ordinances with attendant blessings are being enjoyed by family members at present. If not, endeavor to bring about this realization. (Adults only) Check your own attitude and activities in regard to blessings available through the Priesthood. Symphonies Grace B. Wilson Above conflicting noises of the earth High stars still sing together, And proclaim creation's majesty From dark till dawning. Whether The strange, confused, unlistening ear of man Can ever catch the singing, Still, eons old, across the eternal skies Heaven's symphonies are ringing. Autumn Peace Clella Holland 7 you feel the calm and infinite peace that envelops your soul when you go through a painted canyon in the fall? Your eyes are completely enraptured with the delicate and fragile colors that present themselves before your eyes. Brown, crimson, gold, and green are tucked in among the hills in such a way that it is almost unbelievable. A small grove of quivering aspen, beyond the trees, then the shimmering splashes of crims quiet and restful green of the hardy fir on and gold burst forth in brilliant array. Fall, some say, is the most beautiful time of the year. I know that one comes away from such splendor with peace in the heart. 791 LITERATURE — The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Dr. Bruce B. Clark Lesson 12—Growth Through Experience (Text: Out of the Best Books, pp. 113-123 and 179-197) For Fourth Meeting, January 1966 Objective: To show how literature dramatizes the fact that sometimes we learn through experience and sometimes we resist learning @ The lesson for this month covers just two selections, both of them famous and great short stories—"The Necklace" by Guy de Maupassant (1850-1893), distinguished French novelist and short-story writer of the nineteenth century, and "The Bear' by William Faulkner (1897- 1962), eminent American novelist and short-story writer of the twentieth century. "THE NECKLACE" In order to start with the negative and end with the positive, we will discuss "The Necklace" first. Many readers have regarded this as the story of a woman who began life with shallow values but through a distressing incident followed by years of hard work emerged as a wise and good woman, enriched through experience. However, a close reading of the story makes us question this interpretation. As pointed out in the discussion in the text, on a first reading 792 to remain unchanged. "The Necklace" may seem just a clever story with a surprise ending. But it is more than this, and it must be seen as more than this to be fully understood and appreciated. In fact, when read carefully, it emerges as a story without a surprise ending at all. "The Necklace" is above all a character study, and a study in values. When the story opens we see Mathilde Loisel as a fadingly pretty young wife—unhappy, resentful, and self-pitying. In her shallow vanity she is bored by the drab world of her marriage and in her daydreams yearns for a life of gaiety and luxury. She suffered ceaselessly, feeling herself born for all the delicacies and all the luxuries. She suffered from the poverty of her dwelling, from the wretched look of the walls, from the worn-out chairs, from the ugliness of the curtains. All those things, of which another womar of her rank would never even have been conscious, tortured her and made her angry. The sight of the little Breton peasant who did her humble housework aroused in 1 a Othing. Nly ave no ress and: Ought of he herefore I can't go 0 this Il. Give Silent antechambergs hung With Orienyour carg to Some Colleague Whose tal tapestry, lit by tal] bronze Cande. Wife is better €qulpped than |" (text, abra, and of ¢ O great footmen In page 114), nee breeches who Sleep In the big armchairs made drowsy by the heay Warmth he hot air Stove. Sh Even t > Tchase a new thought of; e long salon, fitted up Tess doesn't Satisfy her, because with ancient Uk, of th Icate fy; Sh has O] Iry, Her husban 's niture Trying price] S_CUriositieg Suggestion that she Wear flowers and of the "Odquettish pe ~med boumerely annoys her O viously Olrs ade for talks a five 0 clock er concern is not for genuine With int; ate frien S, with Men fa. B t t disp] f Mous and Sought after, Who ll wom eau or 'Splay en envy and hose att ion they Wealth. § h Orrows a flashy all desire (te » Page 113 diamond necklace fro a rich Acquaintance, Mm Orestier Although She les those with And at the bal] he Spends a a 8ay social] life, She Complains night of nkling e tasy until When her husba a 8es tick. The affair ds a he must ets to a gove ment ball, ecause, return to er dra bartment— as she p 8 lt, she has nothing de. And the terrible Covery that cent to wea She has lost th Insteaq of being delighteg » She threw SCussed more ~~ fully in th text, on the reader's o Seeing that It does n t have a oi € do you want me to do with UIprise en dita, for we are pre. "But, my dear, J thought You would Pared al] throu th Story for be glad U never go Out and this Is the disclosure at the en that the such © PPortunity, 7 ad aw °St necklace was ere] cheap a <n; hone tite te Imitation, For one thing, Mme. Giving many invitationg to clerks, The Forestier allows = Loise] to Whole Officia] World wil] be ther Aad Olrrow the necklace lth h rdly a She looke at him with, 4N irritateg thought, 4nd doesn' €ven open slance, and Said, mpatiently - the jewe] Case when it ig returned « my phat, do vou want me to pat Ithough She has been tol that He had not thought of that; he the Clas 4s broken and re. Stammereq. Paired, A man such ag Mme "Why, the Tess yoy 50 to the F Testier uld be Ore contheater In. It looks very Well, to Me." Cerned if the Jewels Were real and te stopped, distracted, Seeing his their clasp broken, pF another Wife Crying. Two Bveat tears de-. ': Scended slowly from the Corners of ng, when me. Loisel tries to er ey Oward + Corners of jo. Find a dup Cate of th lost neck Mouth. He Stuttereq ace, the Jeweler Whose Me is in Vhat' © Matter? What, th © jewel case Says that he sold ma er M. But, by Violent effort, She had con- = er estier on| the c quered her &Tief, ang a cal, © replied, with the necklace _ M voice, While she wi Cheeks. T the Jewels are not Teal. And finally, as the OCTOBER 1965 reader thinks through the story, he realizes that Mme. Loisel is the very kind of woman who would choose the false over the true, the cheap and imitative over the valuable and genuine. For she is herself a cheap imitation of what a genuine woman should be. So far as this month's lesson is concerned, the most important question to ask about the story is: How much does Mme. Loisel grow through the experience? Does she mature to an understanding of true values? Does she develop from shallowness to depth of character? Unfortunately, she does not. Experience can be a great character-builder, but for Mme. Loisel it is not. She hates the hard work she must do and becomes an embittered, coarse, unkempt woman, unhealthily dreaming of the life that might have been. There is dignity in hard work, and there is nobility in simple living. But Mme. Loisel finds neither. She finds only bitterness and resentment and selfpity, blaming Mme. Forestier for all that has happened. And so the story ends, with Mme. Loisel essentially as she was at the beginning—years older, but otherwise unchanged. She is still cheap and shallow, just like the jewels she wore with such vanity. A strong and significant contrast can be seen between the shallowness of character and the false values of Mme. Loisel and the depth of character and genuine values of Mr. Gessler, the old German bootmaker in Galsworthy's story "Quality," on pp. 124-131 of the text, immediately following "The Necklace." Indeed, a comparative study of "Quality" and "The Necklace" 794 would make an excellent lesson for any teacher who prefers to review "Quality" rather than "The Bear." "THE BEAR" For the purposes of this lesson, a perhaps even more meaningful contrast can be seen between the lack of character growth in "The Necklace" and the profound character growth in "The Bear." In fact, the primary purpose of "The Bear" is to dramatize the maturation of a boy from boyhood to manhood, not just a physical growth but, more important, a character growth. As the story begins the boy is just a boy, limited in knowledge and even more limited in: understanding of life's values. Then come several years of rich experience in the wilderness as the boy is taught by his father and old Sam Fathers, the wisest wilderness man of them all, and by the wilderness itself. Most of the space of the story is given to a dramatization of these vivid incidents, as discussed fully in the text on pp. 192-196. But the central meaning of the story is saved for its end, after the action is over. If the story had stopped with the close of the action described in it, we would have a good story; but it becomes a truly great story only through the conversation between the boy and his father at the very end. The father reminds the boy that he didn't shoot the bear when he twice had a chance even though shooting it had for years been the great dream and goal of the boy's life. "Why?" asks the father. The boy doesn't quite know why, at least not yet—but LESSON DEPARTMENT € boy had What the Story is a] about Th Shot the ar he Id have boy had €ard the Words "cour. Killed the most Magnificent thing age," "fa rs ide," <p mility," In his life The bear had €come etc.; but they were Meaningles Ohima Symbol of the ma Jesty of to him Until ¢), Ough Perience he untame idernesgs It Teprehe came to know them. Hus, Sented al] that Was beautify] and with the wild ress as his ge ool, Powerfy] and Magnifice tly free and the bear and Sam RF thers as 0 destroy it Would destro is teachers th Vv through e dream f his life oreover, experience, Nd thro h ditat € didn't nee to kill it € had Ing on his e berience Proved his urage to Meet it on €qual term What finally, Is th is about be 48e and fe does the boy see? W. € story al] OCTOBER 1965 short story, achieves its place as one of the greatest stories of the English language partly because of its magnificent prose style. Note such sentences as the two following from early in the story, describing the bear: It looked and towered in _ his dreams before he even saw the unaxed woods where it left its crooked print, shaggy, huge, red-eyed, not malevolent but just big—too big for the dogs which tried to bay it, for the horses which tried to ride it down, for the men and the bullets they fired into it, too big for the very country which was its constricting scope. He seemed to see it entire with a child's complete divination before he ever laid eyes on either—the doomed wilderness whose edges were being constantly and punily gnawed at by men with axes and plows who feared it because it was wilderness, men myriad and nameless even to one another in the land where the old bear had earned a name, through which ran not even a mortal animal but an anachronism, indomitable and invincible, out of an old dead time, a phantom, epitome and apotheosis of the old wild life at which the puny humans swarmed and hacked in a fury of abhorrence and fear, like pygmies about the ankles of a drowsing elephant: the old bear solitary, indomitable and _ alone, widowered, childless, and absolved of mortality—old Priam reft of his old wife and having outlived all his sons (text, page 193; copyright by William Faulkner; reprinted by permission from Random House, Inc.) This is symphonic prose in its most brilliant luxury. But the greatness of the story goes far beyond its prose style. It has a greatness in meaning fully matching its triumph in language. THOUGHTS AND QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. What are the fundamental differences between the boy in "The Bear" and Mme. Loisel that make him grow through experience but cause her to remain essentially unchanged? 2. A different woman in Mme. Loisel's situation might have become strong and admirable in character through Mme. Loisel's experience. Discuss, pointing out the qualities of personality and attitude that would make _ character growth probable. 3. Invite class members to cite experiences in their own lives that, although difficult at the time, helped to build character as they are looked back upon in later years. 4. To what extent is it true that abstract concepts such as freedom, love, honor, and beauty become meaningful only when experience makes them meaningful? 5. To what extent can we grow in our understanding and in character-strength through the experiences of others—including those in literature—as well as through our own experiences? Carpentry Kathryn Kay The thunder hammers On the clouds Till lightning sparks fly around And ten billion nails of rain Are driven in the ground. 796 A Gift Elva T. Cowley Should you come to the end of a dreary day And check on the things you've done And find them good, or poor, as you say, Or unfinished, the things you've begun. Just know that tomorrow the sun will shine, The rain clouds will float away, And he whose power is all supreme Will give you another day. The Mystic Glacier Bertha A. Kleinman A sapphire facet cleaves the lofty crest Of yonder peak where only eagles fly, A mystic glacier timeless in its quest To mirror back the azure of the sky. Inured in awesome chasms far below, It lifts its crystal chalice to the rain, Thence dripping molten rills across the snow To lave the thirsted furrows of the plain. HAWAIIAN TOUR OCTOBER 16, 1965 15 DAYS ROSE PARADE TOURS via San Diego via San Francisco Dec. 26 to Jan. 2 OAKLAND AND LOS ANGELES Nov. 11 Will be time for those who wish to go to temple Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 Hurry, Hurry, Hurry Janet W. Breeze (Ga some special reading time by always carrying a book with you to the dentist, doctor, beauty shop, or wherever you expect to wait. Many worthwhile books are now available in paper-back editions which can easily be carried in your purse. Why buy one pair of shoelaces at a time when it costs so little to buy more? Nail an old bucket to the wall of your garage or storage room and save time looking for all of those little garden items such as nozzles, clippers, etc. 797 MURDOCK TRAVEL womwcmntiene 5 roy @ 16 exciting days! Many thrilling sights! MURDOCK TRAVEL INC., HAWAIIAN TOURS October, November, December 1965 — ROSE PARADE TOUR December 1965 ——— MEXICO February 1966 a Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 485-2444 — 262-2337 798 SOHSHSHSHSSHSHSSHSHSHSOSHSHSHSHSHSSHSHSHSHSHSSHSHHSCHCHHEHHHESHHH8EEE8 14 South Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone: 328-3161 Gentlemen: please send me full particulars on the following tours: ["] (1) Book of Mormon Lands with W. Cleon Skousen (J (2) South America with W. Cleon Skousen TWO GREAT TOURS! With W. Cleon Skousen as Your Guide 1. Book of Mormon Lands Tour Departs Sait Lake City January 14, 1966 @ Mexico City, Ancient Aztec Ruins, Guatemala, Mayan Villages, and 2. South America Tour peparts Mexico City January 29, 1966 © 26 sun-splashed days in Southern Hemisphere Summer! © Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, Montevideo, Buenos Aires, Santiago, Lima and other fabulous places! @ See ancient and modern South America in one breath-taking sweep! BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Reiief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2. B55 Zone (6.9y 2 90 Zone 3.60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4.65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5.80 ay PESERET PPEws PRESS NEW AMERICAN TEMPERANCE PLAN PAYS *100 WEEKLY even for life to Non-drinkers and Non-Smokers! At last—a new kind of 'hospitalization plan for you thousands who realize drinking and smoking are harmful. Rates are fantastically low because "poor risk" drinkers and smokers are excluded. Since your health is superior there is no age limit, no physical examination, no waiting period. Only you can cancel your policy. No salesman will ever call. Starting the first day vou enter any hospital, you will be paid $14.28 a day. You do not smoke or drink— so why pay premiums for those who do? Every day in your newspaper you see more evidence that drinking and smoking shorten eee They're now one of America's leading ealth problems — a prime cause of the high premium policies charge. Our rates are based on your superior health, as a non-drinker and non-smoker. The new American Temperance Hospitalization Plan tan offer you unbelievably low rates because we do not accept drinkers and smokers, who cause high rates. Rates most hospitalization READ YOUR AMERICAN TEMPERANCE PLAN BENEFITS 1. You receive $100 cash weekly — TAX FREE—even for life, rom the first day you enter a hospital. Good in any wspital in the world. We pay in addition to any other nsurance you carry. We send you our payments Air Mail Special Delivery so you have cash on hand fast. No limit on number of times you collect. |. We cover all accidents and sicknesses, cept pregnancy, any act of war or military service, pre-existing accidents or sickness, hospitalization 'aused by use of liquor or narcotics. On everything Ise you're fully protected—at amazingly low rates' 3. Other benefits for loss within 90 days of accident 4s described in policy). We pay $2000 cash for acciental death. Or $2000 cash for loss of one hand, one sot, or sight of one eye. Or $6000 cash for loss of oth eves, both hands. Or both feet. IMPORTANT: include first premium with application. LOOK AT THESE AMERICAN TEMPERANCE LOW RATES Pay Monthly Pay Yearly 19:59 oops $38 $38 Sit $59 | $59 70.100 evs ad $79 ond ender pers $2 $28 SAVE TWO MONTHS PREMIUM BY PAYING YEARLY! Also, your premiums can never be because you grow older or have too many claims. Only a general rate adjustment up or down could affect your low rates. And only you can cancel your policy. We cannot. DO THIS TODAY! Fill out application below and mail right away. Upon approval, your policy will be promptly mailed. Coverage begins at noon on effective date of your policy. Don't delay. Every day almost 50,000 people enter hospitals. So get your protection now. We invite 'close comparison with any other plan. Raised pare rates. See what you save. Actually, no other is like ours. But comMONEY-BACK GUARANTEE Read over your policy carefully Ask your min- «ster, lawyer and doctor to examine it. Be sure at provides exactly what we say it does Thentf for any reason at all you are not 1004, satisfied, just mail your policy back to us within 30 days and we will immediately refund your entire premium. No questions asked. You can gain thousands of dollars you risk nothing TEAR OUT AND MAIL TODAY BEFORE IT'S TOO LATE APPLICATION TO BUCKINGHAM LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY, EXECUTIVE OFFICES, LIBERTYVILLE, ILLINOIS at. Ror a AMERICAN TEMPERANCE HOSPITALIZATION POLICY Name (PLEASE PRINT). Street or RO Z. City County State Zip Age Cte «oof Birth Month Day Year Occupat Height Weight Beneficiary Relationship t also apply for coverage for the members of my family listed below NAME AGE HEIGHT WEIGHT BENEFICIARY BIRTH DATE 1. 2 3 4 To To the best of your knowledge and belief, are you and all members listed above in good health and free from any physical impairment, of disease? Yes[) Nof} To the best of your knowledge, have you of any member above listed had medical advice of treatment, of have you of they been advised to have a surgical operation in the tast five years? Yes () No) If so, please give detarts stating person affected, cause, Gate, name and address of attending physician, and whether fully recovered ~ Weither | mor any person listed above uses tobacco or alcoholic beverages, and 1 hereby apply for a policy based on the understanding that the policy does not cover conditions originating prior to its effective date, and that the policy is issued solely and entirety in telence upon the written answers to the above questions Oste:_ Signea X Mail this application with AMERICAN TEMPERANCE ASSOCIATES, Inc., your frst premium to BOX 131, LIBERTYVILLE, ILLINOIS AT iat R. S. 3484 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT Cc OM Pany cc A NGTON BLVD. OGD N ST, ORANGE. CALIFORNIA € most Magnificent full color and black 4nd white of Numerous hurch agencies artists! Church Of Jesus Christof Latter-day ACe age Operations! Dall L. Green! DESERET BOOK COMPA 4st South Temple Salt Lake City Utah Gentlemen Enclosed Please find Check money Order - | have an account, Please Charge; Amount $ - (Please include Sales tax) for (number COpies) of MEET THE MORMONs. --.. State. Zip (ah please add 3+, +) Sales tay « Sales tax When ordering through C alifornig Store Residents of California, Please add 4:
