[Vol9 | April 1922 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson III - Literature - John Jaques]

LESSON III Literature (Tutrp WeEK In JUNE) LITERATURE LESSON John Jaques, remembered among the Latter-day Saints for his valubale contributions to their hymnology, was born January 7, 1827, at Market Bosworth, Leicestershire, England. At the time of his baptism, which occurred in the year 1845, he became a member of the Branstone branch, but was identified later with the Stratford-on-Avon branch, Warwickshire conference. He sailed from Liverpool, May 22, 1856, and was subjected to severe snow storms, while coming to the valleys. On the plains he and his wife had a child born to them, he also lost a daughter near Green river., Essentially a literary man, he was trained as a cabinet maker. During his lifetime he worked on the Millennial Star, the Deseret News, and the Daily Telegraph. At the time of his death, which occurred June 1, 1900, the anniversary of Brigham Young's birthday, he was working at the Historian's Office, having been connected there for many years. (For further biographical information consult L. D. S. Biographical Encyclopedia, page ~ 254.) Five hymns from the pen of John Jaques appear in the L. D. S. Hymn book. Of this number "O say, what is truth?' holds first place in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints, with whom it has found great favor, not alone because of its poetic quality, but because it is an appropriate hymn for many occa-  sions. It is said to be the favorite hymn of Elder David O. McKay. This hymn begins with a question, an unusual way to begin a hymn, but, in this instance, most effective, as it calls attention to the central idea of the hymn, around which all else is centered. The poet asks the question, which comes ringing to us from the pages of the Holy Bible, "What is truth?" and then proceeds to answer the question, not as a philosopher would answer it, but as a poet answers it. The literary quality of the hymn is produced by bringing into being a group of beautiful comparisons that appeal to the senses and whose connotation is vast and pleasurable. While John Jacques appeals to the senses by comparing truth with the "fairest gem that the riches of worlds can produce," at once suggesting to the mind all the color and brilliancy of the jewels of the world, yet he tells us that truth is to be treasured beyond all the gems of the earth, for it shall be exalted when the "proud monarch's costliest diadem is counted but dross and refuse." ??_ There is a prophecy in the'first stanza that has certainly found its fulfilment during the last decade. Are not the crowns of both the house of Hapsburg and of Hohenzollern dross and refuse at the present time? Before the war were they not the embodiment of pride, the one proud of reigning for nine centuries, the -other proud of military power and prowess? The second stanza accentuates the fact that truth is a prize above all else, a prize to which mortals and even gods may aspire, that it permeates all regions, that whether found in the depths or on the heights, "'Tis an aim for the noblest desire." The third stanza shows how temporary and ephemeral are all material things when compared with the products of the spirit: "The scepter may fall from the despot's grasp, When with winds of stern justice he copes, But the pillar of truth will endure to the last, And its firm-rooted bulwarks oustand the rude blast, And the wreck of the fell tyrant's hopes. The last stanza reminds us that spiritual entities are not bound by either time or space, that even though heaven and earth pass away, yet truth will stand "eternal, unchanged evermore." "Softly beams the sacred dawning," while not in the same class with "O say, what is truth?" as a poetic composition is nevertheless a favorite hymn with the Latter-day Saints. It stands second among John Jaques' hymns for its literary quality, lofty and poetic as it is both in conception and style. The suggestive quality of this hymn should not go un-  noticed, for each line arouses a train of images that must keep the singer in exalted mood. There are eight stanzas in the hymn, each as we approach it, to borrow the language of the author, "seems glowing with celestial cheer." The other three hymns from the pen of John Jaques, found in the L. D. S. Collection, carry their message in clear, concise English, they are examples of good verse rather than poetry. Such hymns are of great value and most serviceable, but we are always gratified when the theme and emotional content raises the author into a realm where the expression is truly poetic. In this day when the Latter-day Saints are emphasizing temple work, the words of the hymn on page 389 cannot fail to make direct appeal. Surely the contribution of two such hymns as "O say, what is truth," and "Softly beams the Sacred dawning" will give lasting fame to their author. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What are the material entities to which John Jaques compares truth? Have the hymn sung during the session. 2. Read the words of "Softly beams the sacred dawning." 3. To what theme is the poem devoted? 4. Select the lines that you regard as especially poetic in the hymn. 5. Are you assisted, through the poetic language, to see and feel more keenly the time that the poet projects? 6. What proof have we that John Jaques could write prose as well as poetry? 7, In the event that the topic of a lesson should be temple work, which one of John Jaques' hymns would be appropriate to sing? 8. Have the hymn read or sung to the class, preferably both, if you have time.