[Vol9 | April 1922 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: The General Procession James H. Anderson]

The General Procession James H. Anderson Prohibition is steadily gaining ground in Great Britain. Mexico's population in 1921 is estimated at 14,000,000. In Japan, on February 4th, 110 people were killed outright in a railway collision. A coal mine explosion at Gates, Pa., in February, killed 25 miners. In Paris, France, during 1921, over 400 persons were killed in street accidents. India was giving Great Britain less trouble in February than during January, with practically a cessation of violence. Russia has begun an increase in its military forces, with a prospect that they will be directed against the Japanese. Fires in the' United States increased in February over Janvary, many of them being of supposed incendiary origin. At Washington, D. C., the collapse of the Knickerbocker moving picttire theatre resulted in the death of 98 persons. German political prognostications now are that within the next five years Germany will assume the form of a liberal monarchy. Palestine authorities captured several shipments of arms and ammunition which were being smuggled into the country in February. Mobs in Plymouth, England, followed "Mormon" missionaries in the streets after a meeting, jeered and threatened them, but did no personal injury to any. Japanese immigration into South America is being discouraged by the Japanese themselves, who are turning the tide to the Asiatic mainland.  In Belfast, Ireland, during February, more than twoscore murders were committed by Sinn Feiners before quiet was restored. The victims included women and children. Albania has such an unstable government that it is regarded by adjoining nations as a menace. To Europe's peace, unless the discordant state of affairs there can be remedied. The Roma, an airship built in Italy for the United States, met with disaster in a flight in Virginia on February 21, 34 of the crew being killed and the airship destroyed. Heavy wind and snowstorms in the north central portions of the United States did an unusual amount of damage in February, and took a toll of more than a score of lives. Egypt is to be released immediately from being under Great Britain as a protectorate. The probability is that after disturbances are quelled the Islamic Arabs will come into actual control of the country. The American Congress has before it a bill to divide the year into thirteen months of 28 days each, the extra month to be called Vern, and the extra leapyear day would be aiholiday sandwiched between the present June and July. The ceremony of placing on the head of Pope Pius XI of Rome the tiara which is symbolic of the pope's sovereignty over the world powers, on February 12, contained these words: "Receive the tiara adorned with three crowns, and know that thou art father of princes and kings, ruler of the world, vicar of our Savior Jesus Christ." The latest Palestine project is a canal from Haifa to the Jordan valley just south of the sea of Galilee, and another from the Dead Sea to the Gulf of Akabah, thus making a waterway across Palestine from Haifa to the Persian Gulf, filling the Dead Sea basin to the level of the Mediterranean, and practically replacing the Suez canal route to India. "Angels communicate by telepathy," and "the Father has no physical organs of speech," is an announcement now being made by certain Pennsylvania preachers. Since the gentlemen admit that they have neither seen nor heard the parties whom they. Are describing, their credibility is questionable.  What Women are Doing. A woman's volunteer fire company has been organized at Wilmington, Delaware.. 14,834 girls between the ages of 15 and 16 years were married in the United States in 1971. The woman's suffrage amendment to the American Constitution was definitely upheld by the United States Supreme Court on February 27. ' Miss Inez Reyntiens, a Catholic, of Belgium, was married on February 27, at Brussels, to Hugh Gibson, American minister to Poland, by a special dispensation from Pope Pius XI. The women deans of universities in Kentucky, Ohio, and Chicago, issued public statements in February, denouncing the growing social habit of smoking by girls as "a vile, nasty fad." Mrs. Margot Asquith, wife of the noted English statesman, says she likes American men better than American women. The latter generally look upon the loquacious Englishwoman in the same way. Viscountess Windsor, twenty years of age, has been elected to the British parliament from the Ludlow division of Shropshire, England. She will be 21 before taking her seat in the august body. Dr. Bigelow, formerly prominently connected with the Boy Scouts' association, says that between the ages of 10 and 15 years girls are braver than boys, as his extensive experience has demonstrated. Factory girls in Great Britain are said by the temperance societies there to have given themselves over to excessive drinking of wine and liquor, since the war, and the temperance workers are combining to combat the evil. The case seems strongly put, for many of the factory girls are equally as good as those of other classes.