[Vol9 | April 1922 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson IV - Social Service - Moral Leadership in the Home]

LESSON IV Social Service. Fourth Week in June MORAL LEADERSHIP IN THE HOME "And now a commandment I give unto you," said the Lord through the Prophet, "if you will be delivered, you shall set in order your own house for there are many things that are not right in your house." Doctrine and Covenants, 93:43. And again, "Your family must needs repent and forsake some things,  and give more earnest heed unto your sayings or be removed out of their place. What I say unto one I say unto all; pray always, lest the wicked one have power in you and remove you out of your place." Doctrine and Covenants 93:48-49, To set our houses in order morally implies two lines of careful organization. In the first place, the environment must be made good, it must inspire moral ideals, sentiments and habits. To set our houses in order means to remove those forces that are morally contaminating and substitute such conditions as tend toward moral uplift. These influences may be either physical or social. We shall call them the home environment. In the second place, we must give proper direction to the native tendencies of children. We call these tendencies instincts. Thus the Lord's commandment implies that order, system, intelligent direction, should take the place of disorder, confusion, conflict. The house of the Lord is a house of order, and so also should be the sacred homes in which God's choice spirits are reared. In this and the following two lessons we shall study moral leadership in the home from the standpoint of what we shall do with the normal child by way of providing proper surroundings on the one hand and giving proper direction to native tendencies on the other. In harmony with what we have said heretofore, we insist that to direct the natural activities of children is much easier than to remove unnatural tendencies when they have once taken root in the lives of our children. In the present lesson we shall consider the home environment in its moral significance and in the following two lessons we shall treat the instructive tendencies with the view of directing them into moral channels. Social Environment of the Home "Better is a dry morsel and quietness therewith, Than a houseful of feasting with strife."?-Proverbs 17:1. It is commonly recognized that the great majority of morally delinquent children and the older criminals come from homes where there is strife, conflict and confusion. And we can expect nothing else of a boy who, during the tender and sensitive years of his life, hears constantly profanity, vulgarity; observes dishonesty, cruelty, sensuality; lives in an atmosphere of filth and tobacco smoke. If the tender thoughts and feelings are to develop in the right direction, and if right habits are to be formed the stimulus and inspiration of the home must conform to the higher standards. A little child is after all very much  like a young colt. He learns to respond to the things which he sees and hears. If he hears loud and profane language he becomes wild and uncontrollable. If the language of the home is kind and the voices gentle, he is likely to take on that attitude. If the parents are honest, the child is quite sure to be honest. If parents control their own impulses, the child soon learns to control his. We must not assume that a child has the motives, the intelligence, the self-control of an adult. If that were the case, there would be no need for moral education. The child needs the constant direction of the parent, because, as a child he does not recognize fully the meaning of moral principles. He needs the authoritative control of the parent because he does not yet possess the inner power of reason and organized habits. "The Perfect child," says Cope, "is the one unborn; shortly after his birth he begins to take after his father. The perfect character does not exist in a child. It is as unreasonable to expect it as it would be to look for the perfect tree in the sapling. Character comes by development; it is not born full-blown. Childhood implies promise, development. Therefore parents must not be surprised at evidences that their children are pretty much like their neighbor's children. Outside of the old-time SundaySchool-library book the child who never lied, lost his temper, sulked, or made a disturbance never existed and never will, except in a psychopathic ward in some hospital. Could anything be sadder than the picture of the anzmic, pulseless automaton who is always good?"* Physical Environment of the Home By physical environment we mean all those things that influence the lives of children other than the direct influence of human beings, and such influences are numerous. The animals in the barn-yard, the flowers of the garden, the artistic arrangement of the furniture, the pictures on the wall, and the music in the home, all these influence profoundly the moral life of the home. The little child should be taught to see God's work in the beauties of nature, to enjoy to live with nature, to care for and develop plants and animals. ' He should be taught to treat kindly all the creatures of nature that are capable of feeling pain and pleasure as he does himself. Sometimes a beautiful picture may develop a love for nature which first hand contact may not do. Well chosen pictures also inspire in the minds of children other moral sentiments which can be created in no other way. The best of art can be obtained in *The Religious Education in the Family, Cope, page 219.  prints at slight cost. A visit to the class rooms of some of the grades in the school may be profitable in ascertaining the most desirable pictures and at the same time ascertaining the prices. An attractive home environment has an indirect moral value in that it tends to keep the younger members of the family at home. In these times when there are so many things that attract young people away from the home, it is very essential that the attraction of the home shal! Hold its own in competition with outside amusements. Public places of amusement have their place in the community but they must not be permitted to absorb all the attention of young people. The home must always be the most interesting place in the world. It must become as near a paradise as we can make it. The loving influence of father and mother, the brother and sister, inspiring strains of music, the interesting life and behavior of domestic animals, all tend to 'make a moral and happy home., Cleanliness is Next to Godliness Too often the beauty, attractiveness and moral atmosphere of the home is weakened by a few careless habits of its members. In and of themselves these habits are not morally bad, but indirectly their influence is detrimental to the wholesome, cheerful spirit that otherwise could be maintained. How often members of the family enter the house and throw their wraps here and there. How often papers, books, music and toys are used and left misplaced. How often the personal belongings of even the adult members of the family are left in disorder. Such common habits as these only bring confusion and irritation and generally end in added burdens to the mother. The personal cleanliness and neatness of an individual has a direct effect on his daily habits of thought and action. Careless language, crude behavior, and vulgarity in general frequently grow out of and accompany unclean bodies and slovenly dress. For example, a little boy four years of age, after having received his bath, clean underwear and his best suit, came to his mama and said, "My, but I am clean, Mama. I can be a good boy now." The Spirit of God will not dwell in unclean or unholy places. If the home is to be the most attractive place in the world it must be clean in every sense of the word. Mother can enjoy her house only when everything is in order, when every room in the house smells fresh, when the body of every member of the family is clean. The father takes pride in his home only when the door-yard and the barn-yard measure up to his standard of order and sanitation.  REFERENCES Deuteronomy, Chapter 6. Cope: Religious Education in the Family, ch, 19. Doctrine and Covenants: Sec. 93:43-45. QUESTIONS 1. How do you interpret the Lord's statement: "If you will be delivered, you shall set in order your house?" 2. Discuss also the statement:. "The house of the Lord is the house of order." 3. How do you explain the fact that the majority of morally delinquent children and criminals come from homes of low moral character? 4, How does the language of the home influence the conduct of the children? 5. What, in the physical environment of the home, do you consider of moral significance? 6. What is the moral significance of pictures in the home? 8. Show in what way a home that is generally attractive has a strong influence over the lives of young people. 9. Why is it important that a large proportion of young people's amusements should be provided for in the home? 10. Explain the moral value of family prayers. 11. Show the moral value of cleanliness. TEACHER'S TOPIC May MOTHER'S DAY. PRIVILEGES OF MOTHERHOOD "Men may build nations, And armies control, But what is all that To the birth of a soul?" "We admire the artist who presents the mimic man upon the canvas; we applaud the sculptor who carves out that same image in enduring marble, but oh, how insignificant are these achievements, though the highest and fairest in all the domain of art, in comparison with the great vocation of human mothers? They work not upon canvas that will fade, nor marble that will crumble into dust, but upon mind and spirit, that will live forever, and bear through eternity, for good or ill, the impress of a mother's plastic hand."?Daniel Webster. GUIDE LESSONS ? 233 TEACHER'S TOPIC For June PROPER CHAPERONAGE Have faith in your children but fear the social conditions of the day. Cooperation of parents in ocmmunities in regard to chaperonage. Responsibility of parents for the salvation of children. The Three Glories J lia Farr Through the darkened woodland, one night I strolled alone, Faintly through the tree-tops, the twinkling star-light shone. The air was filled with fragrance, from moss, and tree, and flower, My soul was thrilled and silenced by the magic of the hour! Many wondrous thoughts seemed to flood with joy my being, Angels seemed to hover round, my earthly bondage freeing. When night was far advanced, a silver light appeared, And as it grew in brilliance, the darkness disappeared. Wondering, then, I gazed at the beauty of the scene? Nature seemed more eloquent, the leaves and ferns a-sheen. The whole night through, I contemplated the glory of the moon. The hours passed me quickly by, it seemed to me too soon, The moon-light waned, the shadows fled. But lo! The golden ray Upon the eastern hills, proclaimed the dawning of a day! The heavens were lit with prism rays as the glorious sun appeared! The shadows fled, the zephyrs stirred, the songs of birds were heard!; Majestically the sun arose, in splendor unsurpassed, I felt its warmth, I felt its power, I felt soul strength at last! And, as with awe I watched it rise in power and majesty, I thought of heaven's reward to Man-?one of glories three, The glory of the Stars, or of the Moon, or of the Sun! I prayed that mine would be the Third, when my early race was run! SAZY? A Big Treat for Conference Time "Sazy" is a Social Service Drama, dealing with the real problems of THE SIMM'S FAMILY?and solving those problems by practical methods. ? The Salt Lake Theatre APRIL 5th, Next You will do Relief Society work more thoughtfully? You will bestow charities more cautiously? You will love humanity more generously? When you have seen this stirring Drama with its big appeal. The Simms Family is among you UUSHAnauecenesdCueneantrsnnecescs Ov4boeeenssed oedeeseuuseaee in cantCteT gaat enisaanaenestestrt ECCLES BLDG., OGDEN THE FLOWER SHOP ELIZABETH HUTH, Prop. Telephone 73 AT McINTYRE'S IOANANVEODONOUNOONARO ANA EONAT UU To the Agents and Friends of the Magazine who are Taking Subscriptions It was unanimously decided at the October Conference by the officers and members present rather than raise the price of the magazine, we would ask the agents and friends for the present to secure subscriptions without the customary 10 per cent discount. We call your attention to the fact that more than one-half of the subscriptions received so far have had the percentage deducted, which is not in accordance with the general understanding of the Magazine management and officers present at the conference. Will you kindly give this matter your attention and give these facts as wide publicity as possible in order that the subscriptions which we receive hereafter, will be accompanied with the full amount of the price of the magazine, which is $1.00. Sincerely, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. To the Relief Society Magazine SUBSCRIBERS Commencing with the November issue your expiration will appear on the outside cover of the magazine, with your address. Watch for Your Expiration! Eanpongqauntanptacdsiasauncssunaun S?sy BY TEST" Ice Cream: 'Candy Cake-Luncheons PHONE. WAS. 3223. -. P. O. BOX 17/3. ? SALT LAKE City -APage for Every Woman Containing latest patterns?fascinating health and beauty suggestions?receipes for cooking special dishes?and numerous articles that have special appeal to women readers. In fact there is a department for every member of the family furnishing entertainment and wunaranea information regarding the live topics of the day. All this with progressiveness?wholesomeness and dependability characterizes The Deseret News Utah's Leading Evening Newspaper An tel MABE AI Cuts" t When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine sti ? Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stoc Best in the Market _ RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Inter-mountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT. Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it, I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." Bureau of Information ~ Mention Relief Society Magazine Ask Your Dealer for Z. C. M. I. Boys' School SHOES When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine