[Vol9 | April 1922 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Why I am a Mormon P. V. Cardon]

Why I am a "Mormon" A SIMPLE STATEMENT, NOT DOCTRINAL BUT SINCERE By P. V. Cardon It has been my good fortune to travel extensively in the United States, engaged in professional work for the U. S. Department of Agriculture and different State Agricultural Colleges and Experiment Stations. Ordinarily, while traveling, the subject of religion was not discussed, except as an after-dinner topic on the gallery of a plantation home, in the lounging room of the club, in the Pullman, or in the parlor of a farm home in this county or that parish. Occasionally, also, the monotony of a long automobile trip would be broken by a discussion of religion. Such a conversation would begin in any of a number of different ways, but usually it would involve one or both of two simple questions. If my religion was unknown to the other party to the conversation, he would ask, "What's your Church?" or words to that effect. If he knew my religion, he would inquire about as follows: "Cardon, why are you a 'Mormon'?" I have been asked these questions many times, by representatives of the more common churches in this country, as well as by non-believers, even atheists, so called. My answer to the first, always has led to the second question; so, regardless of how the conversation opened, I almost invariably have had to state my reasons for being a "Mormon." Early in my experience I was prompted to reply to this question with quotations of scripture and an exhaustive review of the facts leading to the establishment and development of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; but I soon learned that I was not qualified to reply effectively along that line. I found that my boyhood indulgence in religious work had served  to satisfy my own desires, but had failed to prepare me for making the kind of reply which always struggled for expression on such occasions as these. Moreover, I lacked the familiarity with scripture and Church doctrine that comes to the sincere missionary. The privilege of serving in the missionary field had been denied me. I had responded favorably to a mission call, but President Smith decided later that the agricultural work in which I was engaged at that time was missionary work of a highly acceptable type, so I continued the investigation of temporal instead of spiritual affairs. Not being qualified from a doctrinal standpoint, therefore, I decided to answer the question, "Why are you a 'Mormon'?" from a common-sense standpoint wholly satisfactory to myself, at least. And why not? Being a "Mormon," should I not be able to say why? If my reasons were not doctrinal, what were they? I have spent a great deal of time trying to answer that question. It is not an easy thing to do. But I have answered it, in my own way, and my answer satisfies me. I am a "Mormon" for the reasons given below, and, to me, they are sufficient reasons for my remaining a "Mormon," aside from any consideration of scripture, doctrine or covenant. I am a "Mormon" because (a) I could never have been born anything else; (b) "Mormonism" created for me a home environment that made me able to approach the problems and assume the responsibilities of life, fearlessly; (c) "Mormonism" has filled my cup with happiness; and (d) my simple belief has eased my thoughts of death, making it possible for me to look to the future with equanimity. To be able thus to state my reasons I had to begin back in the 17th century, when my paternal ancestors, who were Huguenots, probably were "forced out of France by the Edict of Nantes, in 1685, which deprived them of all security and rights so long as they clung to their religion." They settled in the Piedmont region of northern Italy; and it was there, about 158 years later, in 1843, that Thomas Bartholomew Cardon, my father, was born. When he was a mere boy, his family, including both parents, four sons and a daughter, emigrated to Utah as converts of the "Mormon" Church, Later he went to war, serving as a bugler in the Army of the Potomac. * Being severely wounded in the Battle of Gains Mill, he was sent to the rear and finally was discharged from the convalescent camp near Washington, D. C. By some means he found his way to Harrisburg, Penn., where, as an apprentice, he learned the photographic art which enabled him at last to get back to Utah. There he met and later married Lucy Smith, my mother. WHY I AM A "MORMON" 181 She had come as a girl from England, her parents having been converted to "Mormonism," and when eighteen months old she had crossed the plains, arriving in Utah in 1854. Now, it is clear that, from a biological standpoint, if from no other, I should never have been born had it not been for "Mor. Monism." My father doubtless would have lived his life in Italy, whereas my mother probably would have remained in England. Because of "Mormonism," however, I was born; and I am now duly appreciative of my inheritance. Happily, the natural inclinations of my parents prompted them to maintain wholesomeness in the home; and it is likely that they would have done so had they been of any other faith than "Mormonism." Reflection on this point, however, has convinced me that their peculiar faith caused them to be unusually solicitous when considering the welfare of their children. To them, every child was a gift of heaven, sent to them by the grace of God. The spirit of that child before being sent to earth, had lived in heaven; and it was sent to earth to enable it later to enjoy eternal life, according to the great plan of salvation. My parents, therefore, looked upon me as something holy that had been placed in their keeping. Nothing should be left undone that would be conducive to my eternal glory. The responsibility rested with them, as my parents. What a tremendous responsibility! Yet, what an incentive to proper homemaking! My recollections of my father are few; I doubt if I could now recall his face were it not for his photographs, to which I have frequently turned to refresh my memory. Yet, there are two events in his life which I shall mention because they have a bearing upon the question I am striving herein to answer. Both of these events illustrate the sustaining influence of the faith of my parents. The first was a result of the panic of 93. I do not recall the exact date of the event, nor does it matter. The important thing is that I see myself standing in a forlorn family group, watching the parade of cows, horses, wagons, buggies, machinery, etc., that passed, under the direction of the sheriff, from our home to the county court house where our goods were to be sold at public auction. One thing, I remember, was left—a phaeton, which was used for many years subsequently by my mother in her Relief Society work! I do not know the circumstances that forced that sale, but at the time there were rumors that it might have been avoided, if certain men of the same faith had not permitted their avarice to dominate their religion. Be that as it may, the only comment from my parents was to the effect that human failings could not affect the truth of "Mor-  monism." That was my first lesson in the importance of always clearly distinguishing between the acts of men and the purpose of any organization they represent. That is practical religion, call it by whatever name you may. The second event to which I have referred was at the death bed of my father. The date—February 15, 1898—was doubly impressed upon my mind, because my father died within fifteen minutes of the explosion that destroyed the battleship Maine! I was nine years old. In my mother's family there were six children older than I, and one younger, a baby. Out of the sorrow of that occasion, the thing which I have carried most vividly in my memory is the remark of my mother, made when we youngsters were gathered about her in sympathetic grief. I recall how we younger boys were quick to express a determination to help her carry the great burden now resting upon her shoulders—the burden of eight children and a mortgage on the home! Her remark embodied the assurance that father was happy and that if we lived as he had taught us to live we should all see him, and be with him, as a happy family, in the next world! What a promise! Could I ever forget it? "Honor thy father and thy mother" had not only been taught us; we had been given every reason to honor them! We honored them not because God had so commanded, but because their lives had been 'such that we could not do otherwise than honor them. You see, our parents had sensed their full duty—they had honored their parents by so living that their own children could, in turn, honor them. And the promise of being re-united in eternity with such parents could not fail to appeal to the best there was in me. What did it mean to live as he had taught me? Briefly to live as he had lived; for he had lived his religion, just as my mother is living her religion to this day. It meant a righteous, Christian life of faith, hope, charity—with emphasis on the greatest of these. It meant a proper observance of the laws of health, intellectual advancement, and fair dealing with men. It meant that I should be prepared always to. Assume my full responsibility in this life that I might be worthy of the next. That promise of reunion was made again by my mother, sixteen years later, when she pressed her lips upon the cold brow of her oldest son and murmured, "Goodby, my boy, for a little while." What faith! Is it surprising that I share it? Would it not be surprising if I did not share it? I have talked with men who believe differently, with some who think death is the end of all; I have worked in close association with men who consider such faith a pitiful remnant of man's primitive existence; I number WHY I AM A "MORMON" 183 among my best friends men who are willing to tolerate that faith in me because, happily, I possess something else which to them off-sets my "weakness;" but I thank God, nevertheless, that nothing I have seen or heard or read has ever appeared worthy to replace my faith in the future my mother has promised. Though it prove to be wrong, it is my faith; and it remains unshaken by my increasing knowledge, as I study the laws that seem to govern life on earth. The religion which made possible my life, thereby made me an American citizen, entitled to all that this government means to a man who loves it and helps to preserve it. That religion, also, is what led to the marriage of my wife's parents, thereby making possible her life; and, for the same reason, she honors her parents, as I honor mine. Further, the same religion united us and thereby made possible the lives of our children; and it is prompting us to live that we, too, may be honored as parents. Is it an exaggeration, therefore, when I state that this religion—'"Mormonism''—has filled my cup with happiness? It would be wholly wrong to say that it has done less. In view of what I have already stated, it follows naturally that I look serenely toward the future. I look upon death as a mere passing from this life to a greater one. An occasion for sorrow, certainly; but also one for rejoicing. An abiding faith in a future existence—in more than that, an eternity, with loved ones—makes it possible for me to approach death, as I am approaching it every day, experiencing a kind of thrill in the adventure of it all. In such a faith, the only fear I could have would be a fear that I have failed to live as I should live to be worthy, and thereby help others to be worthy, of what lies ahead. And what might that be—that which lies ahead? What has "Mormonism" taught me of that? Golden stairs, harps? Nothing of that sort! It is an opportunity for still greater service— a life of greater usefulness. A sphere in which to apply all I have learned and may yet learn on earth—a sphere in which to learn still more and more of the wonderfully fascinating laws which govern all life! Is it not inviting? '[Note—tThe writer of this article is now the head of the Cedar Branch Agricultural College. He spent twelve years in government service in various parts of the U. S. As an agricultural expert before returning to his home state to accept the position he now occupies.—S. Y. G.]