MORMON HANDICRAFT Highlights By Nellie O. Parker
"In the elder days of art Builders wrought with greatest care Each minute and unseen part, For the gods see everywhere."
DISCRIMINATING people in our modern day are proud to own articles that are very carefully and skillfully made, even to the minutest detail. There is a constant pleasure derived from viewing fine workmanship and in using things that are exquisitely fashioned by expert, clever fingers. One of the nicest compliments to pay a friend is to present him with a beautiful hand-made gift from Mormon Handicraft. The blue and white beehive sticker is the label of fine, unexcelled craftsmanship. Such a gift is evidence of your appraisal of the friend's high appreciation of lovely, distinctive things.
Dainty Lamps
An unusual little alabaster lamp from the Shop?a lighthouse on a rocky coast?received marked attention and admiration in the gift room at a recent wedding reception. Besides this enchanting little lighthouse there is a beehive model which would glow very appropriately on a man's desk. There are other types of lamps available also.
Wool Mittens and Ski Sets
Prepare for the cold weather now by getting hand-knit mittens, scarfs and socks. There is a nice variety to choose from for street, sport, or party wear. These ski sets are very desirable in our mountainous country where skiing is a favorite sport. The dainty llama-down mittens for formal evening wear are "veritable poems" in their exquisite beauty of workmanship and color harmony. These and some of the sport models for both adults and children have attractive designs embroidered on them. Nothing could be nicer for birthday or Christmas gifts. Early shopping assures getting one's choice without delay or disappointment.
New Sweaters
Some new sweaters have come to the Shop. They are smart and up to the minute according to Vogue's dictum.
Party Favors
A number of pretty and original motives for party favors, nut cups and place cards are now available. Come and see them when planning your next luncheon.