Lesson Department (For Second Week in November)
Theology and Testimony
Lesson II?Messages From LIBERTY JAIL
1. The Exiles. The closing months of 1838 were fraught with much unhappiness and suffering for the Latter-day Saints. Already it had become apparent that they must leave their homes in Missouri and seek an exile elsewhere. At that time the membership of the Church in Missouri was estimated at between twelve and fifteen thousand, with a property ownership of nearly two million dollars. The leaders of the Church were arrested and held in jail on the slightest pretext or no pretext at all. Finally with all three members of the First Presidency in prison, the responsibility of removing the Saints from Missouri to Illinois fell upon the shoulders of Brigham Young. The trek continued through the months of January to April of 1839, under most trying and insuperable hardships. The Prophet himself and five companions were left behind in Liberty jail, and others at Richmond.
2. The Prophet Imprisoned. Throughout the year 1838 the Prophet and others of the leading brethren were repeatedly imprisoned. In November of that year he was brought before Judge Austin A. King at Richmond. Witnesses against the Prophet were called and sworn at the point of the bayonet, while those for the defense were arrested by the militia and thrown into prison, not being allowed to appear. This mock investigation continued for several days until finally on the 28th of November most of the prisoners were released. The Prophet, however, and the following named brethren, held on the charge of treason and murder, were committed to Liberty Jail: Hyrum Smith, Sidney Rigdon, Lyman Wight, Caleb Baldwin and Alexander McRae. During the investigation the prisoners were confined in chains and subjected to various forms of humiliating abuse.
3. Liberty Jail. There were no jails in either Daviess or Caldwell counties, and hence the brethren were sent to Liberty, Clay County, pending the time they were to appear for trial. Elder B. H. Roberts describes the appearance and construction of "Liberty Jail" As follows: The building "faced the east, and was a scant two hundred yards from the court house. It was built of rough dressed limestone, of yellowish color. Its dimensions were twenty by twenty-two feet, and the walls were two feet thick. It had two floors, hence two rooms?an upper one and a basement, which formed a dungeon. In the east end was a heavy door made strong, and of great thickness, by nailing inch oak boards together with iron spikes. In the south side of the upper room there was a small opening, a foot and a half square, with strong iron bars, two inches apart, firmly imbedded in the stones of the wall.' " (Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. I, p. 526) The ceilings of the jail were low; the ventilation was extremely poor; and the lower room was practically without light.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
4. It was within this place under the most unsanitary and repulsive conditions, that the Prophet and his companions were imprisoned for five months. The food is described as very inadequate and of poor quality. At times visitors were not permitted, and at other times there were not a few, friends and enemies alike. Driven on by threats of death from the guards and by the squalid conditions under which they lived, the prisoners made one or more attempts to escape, but without success. By the close of February, 1839, practically the entire membership of the Church, including the Prophet's wife, had migrated to Illinois.
5. Escape of the Prisoners. Meantime the brethren on the outside were doing everything possible to bring about the Prophet's release. Fearing that this might be done, or a change of venue secured, Judge King hurried the prisoners off to Daviess County, April 6, 1839, where they were tried before a prejudiced court and found guilty of "murder, treason, burglary, arson, larceny, theft, and stealing." A few days after this verdict was rendered. The prisoners secured a change of venue from Daviess to Boone county, and a mittimus was made out by Judge Burch, without date, name or place. Immediately thereafter the brethren left for Boone County in charge of the sheriff and four aides. When the party was one day out the sheriff exhibited the unsigned mittimus and informed the brethren that he had been instructed by Judge Burch not to take them to Boone county. After thus exposing the plan that had been laid for the escape of the prisoners, the sheriff told the brethren he was going to take a good drink of whiskey and go to bed and that they could do as they pleased. Accordingly, when all of the guards were asleep except one, the brethren by the assistance of this guard mounted their horses and rode away. Some ten days later they reached their families and friends who had preceded them to Illinois.
6. The Dungeon-Temple. Although Liberty Jail was a dungeon ?small, unclean, poorly ventilated, and practically without light, yet the Prophet's presence transferred it into a sanctuary of spiritual learning. It was a haven of comfort to which the stricken and scattered Saints turned for solace and instruction. It was a place of meditation and prayer, where Joseph held communion with God. Such a place?a meeting ground between heaven and earth? is more than a prison; it is a temple of spiritual learning, made such by the influence of those who were there. This prison still stands? 1935?and is occupied as a residence.
7. During the long months of Joseph's imprisonment at this place he was never disheartened or subdued. He was impatient with the ways of sinners, but ever constant in belief that God would overrule all for the good of those who loved him. In the midst of his own suffering he dispatched messages of joy and comfort to those who were awaiting his return. He forgot himself and lived for others alone. His was the attitude of a prophet that saw beyond prison walls, beyond his own personal discomfort, to the Saints outside, and to the glories that awaited those who proved faithful. But we must turn attention to some of the things that he taught?imprisoned. And part of the time in chains.
8. Undaunted in Adversity. Under date of December 16, 1838, the imprisoned Prophet wrote to the stricken and scattered Saints in part as follows: "Know assuredly, dear brethren, that it is for the testimony of Jesus that we are in bonds and in prison, But we say unto you, that we consider that our condition is better (notwithstanding our sufferings) than that of those who have persecuted us, and smitten us, and borne false witness against us." (History of the Church, Vol. III, p. 226)
9. Further, "Dear brethren, do not think our hearts faint, as though some strange thing had happened unto us, for we have seen and been assured of all these things beforehand, and have an assurance of a better hope than that of our persecutors. Therefore God hath made broad our shoulders for the burden. We glory in our tribulation, because we know that God is with us, that He is our friend, and that he will save our souls. We ask no favors at the hands of mobs, nor of the world, nor of the devil, nor of his emissaries, the dissenters, and those who love, and make, and swear falsehoods, to take away our lives. We have never dissembled, nor will we for the sake of our lives." (History of the Church, Vol. III, p. 227)
10. Hope, Pity, and Accusation. At the opening of each New Year human beings are usually softened with love and brotherly kindness, but the enemies of the Prophet remained cruel and relentless. On the first day of January, 1839, still in jail, the Prophet uttered the following significant words: "The day dawned upon us as prisoners of hope, but not as sons of liberty. O Columbia, Columbia! How thou art fallen! 'The land of the free, the home of the brave!' 'The asylum of the oppressed'?oppressing thy noblest sons, in a loathsome dungeon, without any provocation, only that they have claimed to worship the God of their fathers according to his own word, and the dictates of their own consciences." (History of the Church, Vol. III, p. 245)
11. Regard for the American Constitution. Even though he was deprived of his rights and unjustly imprisoned, yet he had this to say of the American Constitution: "The Constitution of the United States is a glorious standard; it is founded in the wisdom of God. It is a heavenly banner; it is to all those who are privileged with the sweets of its liberty, like the cooling shades and refreshing waters of a great rock in a thirsty and weary land. It is like a great tree under whose branches men from every clime can be shielded from the burning rays of the sun. We, brethren, are deprived of the protection of its glorious principles by the cruelty of men." (History of the Church, Vol. III, p. 304; see also D. And C. 101:76-80)
12. Blessings Upon the Saints. The Prophet was ever praying for the welfare of the Saints. The following is significant of his love for them: "What power shall stay the heavens? As well might man stretch forth his puny arm to stop the Missouri river in its decreed course, or to turn it upstream, as to hinder the Almighty from pouring down knowledge from heaven upon the heads of the Latter-day Saints." (D. And C. 121:33)
13. A Basic Pedagogical Principle. "No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; by kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile ?reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy." (D. And C. 121:41-43)
14. The Anguish of the Prophet. The Prophet had been imprisoned for four months; twelve thousand of his people had been exiled in the dead of winter; and his appeals for justice had failed to bring relief. Out of the midst of this distress, he called upon God in childlike earnestness: "O God, where art Thou? And where is the pavilion that covereth Thy hiding place? How long shall Thy hand be stayed, and Thine eye, yea Thy pure eye, behold from the eternal heavens the wrongs of Thy people and of Thy servants, and Thine ear be penetrated with their cries? Yea, O Lord, how long shall they suffer these wrongs and unlawful oppressions, before Thine heart shall be softened toward them, and Thy bowels be moved with compassion toward them.... Remember Thy suffering Saints, O our God; and Thy servants will rejoice in Thy name." (D. And C. 121:1-6)
15. The Heavenly Answer. And the Lord said: "My son, peace be unto thy soul; thine adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment; and then, if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high; thou shalt triumph over all thy foes. Thy friends do stand by thee, and they shall hail thee again with warm hearts and friendly hands." (D. And C. 121:7-9) "The ends of the earth shall inquire after thy name, and fools shall have thee in derision, and hell shall rage against thee; while the pure in heart, and the wise, and the noble, and the virtuous, shall seek counsel, and authority, and blessings constantly from under thy hand. And thy people shall never be turned against thee by the testimony of traitors.' (D. And C. 122:1-3) "Know thou, my son, that all these things shall give thee experience and shall be for thy good. The Son of Man hath descended below them all." (D. And C. 122:7-8)
Suggestion for Discussion and Review
1. Compare the Mormon exile from Missouri with their later exile from Illinois.
2. Compare the prisons of today with the one in which the Prophet was incarcerated.
3. Why do you suppose that the enemies of the Prophet provided a means for his escape?
4. In what respects might the jail at Liberty be regarded as a "shrine of spiritual learning," that is, while the Prophet was there?
5. The Prophet was undaunted in adversity. Why?
6. How do you account for the Prophet's love for the American Constitution, in spite of the persecution to which he was so often subjected?
7. How many of the Lord's promises given in paragraph fifteen have already been fulfilled? Explain.
Teachers' Topic
GENERAL INSTRUCTION
THE Teacher's Topics will be based on Proverbs taken from the Book of Proverbs in the Old Testament. Each home will be asked to have a Bible ready when the teachers call. The Proverb is to be read in each Home. Each home will be asked to read and discuss the Proverb during the month.
THE BOOK OF PROVERBS
THE Book of Proverbs introduces us to the wisdom literature of the Hebrews. The sages who wrote them believed that wisdom would give sagacity and common sense that would lead to happy prosperous lives. Julius A. Bewer says, "There is a wealth of wisdom, of sober and realistic observation, of sharp epigrammatic characterization, of kindly humor and biting sarcasm, of warm personal exhortation and urgent appeal that makes the Book of Proverbs a veritable mine of good counsel for the art of right living." The teachings of these wise men were very practical. While there are some elevated religious proverbs, they are mostly drawn from secular life and describe the fortunes that may be expected to come from certain conduct or types of character. Self interest is the all pervasive note. The motive is always personal happiness. They concern themselves not at all with making others happy, yet were these wise men religious for thus only could they be happy and prosperous, so there is a devout spirit manifested in their teachings. These writers were concerned with the whole range of life. They treated good manners, morals, family relations, social intercourse, professional and business matters and public life. They put the teachings of the Prophets into usable language, and while they lacked the prophetic enthusiasm they kept a balance between form. And spirit, maintaining always that wisdom is the true norm and guide of life. They addressed themselves to individuals rather than to nations. Their interest was not only in the Jewish people but in the whole of human life. Hence, the Book of Proverbs is of universal application. While Jewish tradition gives to Solomon the credit for the authorship of the Book of Proverbs, students of the Scriptures feel certain that they are not the work of one writer. Their language, style, the social and political conditions they imply lead to the conclusion that they were written by different people and at different times. The drift of their teachings is uniform. The motives. For right conduct they hold forth are mainly prudential. They show no tendency to speculation or to doubt. They emphatically proclaim "Be good and you will prosper, be wicked and you will suffer." We wish these teachings had been grouped in logical order. It is interesting to gather together those that deal with the same subject. "Each verse contains a complete Proverb. Each Proverb consists of two members. The two members stand almost exclusively in antithetic parallelism the second confirming or enforcing the first by declaring some contrasted truth which forms, as it were, its counterpart."
TEACHERS' TOPIC (For October, 1935) Proverbs 16:32
"He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty; and he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a city."
THERE is in man an innate love of power and leadership. Proverbs 16:32 asserts the highest manifestation of power the most desirable type of leadership. In the great life struggle for self-control none should feel helpless and think it is impossible for them to change their inborn characteristics and to gain the mastery. Characters are changeable. A realization of this is the first step in regeneration. The untold suffering caused by bad temper and uncontrolled passion, which is at the root of the loss of self-control should summon all the strength of the soul to wage war until victory is attained. Anger not only works havoc on the one who throws down the reins of self-control but in the home or the workshop, all are injured by its burning flame. The sweet tempered may become peevish by the constant irritation of one who lacks self-control and the gentlest may be roused to anger by being associated with the passionate. Horton says, "A passionate man or woman spreads a pervading sense of irritation in the house or in the workshop, and all the other occupants of the place are as if they dwelt in a country subject to earthquakes; life for them is divided between anxiety to avoid the explosion and a painful effort to repair its devastations." All who lack self-control should study themselves, diagnose their cases, appraise their strength and weakness and finding the roots of their trouble they should resolutely set about eradicating the weakness. If possible they should avoid what produces anger. Constant vigilance is necessary, yet one may remonstrate saying, "How are we to become watchful, since it is the special characteristic of a hasty temper that it overpowers our sentinels before it assaults the city? How are we to become loving and humble?" They would do well to cry with David, "Create in me a clean heart, O God; and renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from Thy presence and take not Thy Holy Spirit from me." Anger and hatred should be replaced with love, for "Hatred stirreth up strifes: but love covereth all sins." Proverbs 10:12. Love will soothe irritated nerves and will fill the soul with an impulse to change those who offend rather than to be angry with them. The tongue should be controlled, will-power should be cultivated, the results of ill temper should be thought over. But after one does all he can to control, regeneration is what this rudderless, storm-tossed soul needs. "For our evil tempers, then, our passion, our wrath, our sullen pride, our fretful irritability, our outbreaks of sarcasm, our malignant sneers, there is only one possible cure; we must bring the heart, out of which all the evil comes, to Jesus Christ, that He may create it anew; we must accept our failures as evidence of an imperfect surrender, and come afresh with a more insistent cry, and a more perfect faith, that He may reign in our hearts as undisputed Lord, checking, subduing, warring down, every evil motion there."* The following story illustrates what the Gospel of Jesus Christ will do in helping one who is truly converted to overcome his weaknesses. A Japanese living at Fujioka was given to strong intoxicants. This had a terrible effect on his temper. When he became a Christian, he gave up the evil habit and became regenerated. One day an unfortunate incident made his wife realize the remarkable change that had taken place in him. Through her carelessness some silk worms' eggs had become partially destroyed. She trembled with fear lest when her husband found it out he would become enraged and punish her as he had often done before. To her amazement he remained calm as he said, We can distribute the unharmed ones among our poor neighbors. They will then have a larger crop so it will be better than if we had sold them and taken all the money ourselves."
*R. F. Horton.
Topics and Questions for Discussion
1. Point out the effect of keeping the Word of Wisdom and of observing a monthly fast in the matter of self-control.
2. What has helped you to rule your spirit?
3. Give some suggestions for curbing anger.
4. Read the following Proverbs commenting on the ones that especially appeal to you: 15:18; 11:12; 17:4; 25:28; 29:22; 26:21; 22:24, 19:19,
Literature (For Third Week in November)
ADVENTURES IN READING
THE GLORY OF THE COMMONPLACE
"If thou wilt receive profit, read with humility, simplicity, and faith; and seek not at any time the fame of being learned."
THE earth and its fullness is man's heritage. Its bounty is for his sustenance; its beauty is for his delight; and its mystery for his inspiration. It is truly a goodly heritage. To understand the nature and mystery of his heritage Man has ever striven. The unknown and the invisible stirred him in the quest. But always the violet's perfume, the thrush's note, the star's constancy sang to him of the glory of the commonplace, and "From an eye made quiet with the power Of Harmony, and the deep power of Joy, We see into the life of things." The Glory of the Commonplace The true poetry of life ? the poetry of the common things ? a flower, a bird, a simple cottager, a toilworn woman?the things that lie around us is the expression of the greatest poets. Literature is made of many patterns and of many themes. Out of the intensity of Greek life and thought came classic Thomas A. Kenipis. Patterns; out of the scaredness of Hebrew philosophy came great themes; out of the simplicity of the common life of man came the glory of the commonplace. English Poetry like the literature of Western Europe grew simply and slowly out of the adventures of life. Folk tales, legends, ballads of love. Daring and mystery marked its early expression. Then came the Renaissance with the revival of the classic patterns. Slowly simple forms and simple themes gave way to epic poems and tragic drama. Shakespeare mingled the old and the new into a romanticism that is still the wonder of man. The School of Classicists, English and French, of the seventeenth century made of literature a stilted form of expression. Slowly to the world came the beauty of the Hebrew story of Ruth, and the simple parables of the Teacher of Galilee. Gray, Burns, Wordsworth, Shelley and Keats sang the songs of Nature and from the nightingale's note, the daffodil's dance, the cotter's life, the Spring's return, learned anew the glory of the commonplace. Elegy Written ina Country Churchyard?Thomas Gray Gray's "Elegy" has become the best-known poem in the English language. Thomas Gray, a melancholy young poet, kept the poem eight years revising and polishing it. The churchyard that gave the inspiration for the poem is that of Stoke Poges, a little village near London. The poem was written when the classical school of writers with gilded phrases and stilted themes was being replaced by the romantic school with its simple expressions of the life of common people. The poem is loved for the simplicity of its form, the wistful beauty of its language, and the humanity of its theme?"the short and simple annals of the poor." The setting of the poem is a simple village nestled round an ivy-covered church at eventide. The poet meditates upon the obscure lives of the villagers. Some of their forefathers sleep in the graveyard. Death is the commion end of all?'"the paths of glory lead but to the grave." No pealing anthem, or stately monument can stay the unwelcome guest. Among these sleeping villagers who will know no more the joys of home and loved ones might be one whom had the chance given "the rod of empire might have swayed." Yet these simple folks asked no more than a simple monument, a simple epitaph. The poet anticipates the tine when he will join them "a youth to Fortune and to Fame unknown" and so he pens his own epitaph. No poem in the English language has given so many lines of choice expression to become familiar as the "Elegy". "The boast of heraldry, the pomp of power, And all that beauty, all that wealth e'er gave, Await alike the inevitable hour; The paths of glory lead but to the grave." The Cotter's Saturday Night? Robert Burns "Let not Ambition mock their useful toil, Their homely joys and destiny obscure; Nor grandeur hear, with a disdainful smile, The short and simple annals of the poor.' The poem opening with the lines from Gray's "Elegy" carries the spirit of Romanticism ushered into English literature by that poem and Goldsmith's "The Deserted Village." Robert Burns in the language of the unlettered men of his time and race sang of the dignity of simple life. He revealed the true greatness of his native Scotland as it was builded upon the stalwart idealism of its peasants. The humble cottager goes to his home thankful that the weekly toil is ended. When he is greeted by his thrifty wife and bonnie children around the cheerful hearth the toil is forgotten. Later the older children come in from their service to near-by farmers. Jenny, then "eldest hope" is a woman grown. As brothers and sisters meet on this weekly occasion, bits of gossip, fragments of news, words of wisdom pass the rounds of the family circle. As the neighbor. Lad joins the happy group the wily mother notes the kindle in Jenny's eyes. The simple supper "crowns the cheerful board." Then the cotter with the dignity of a patriarch old, lifts the family Bible from its place on the shelf declaring with solemn air "Let us worship God." After reading from the sacred page the priest-like father and his family kneel in prayer. "From scenes like these old Scotia's grandeur springs, That makes her loved at home, revered abroad, LESSON DEPARTMENT 383 384 Princes and lords are but the breath of kings, 'An honest man's the noblest work of God." The poein is concluded with an invocation for Scotland's security and nobility. Snowbound?John Greenleaf Whittier Whittier has been called ?The American Burns" because of the similarity of the rural idyls written by the two poets. The poet was born at the old homestead described in "Snowbound" at Haverhill, Massachusetts, in 1807. In explaining the poem Whittier wrote: "The inmates of the family at the homestead were my father, my mother, my brother and two sisters, and my uncle and aunt, both unmarried. In addition, there was the district schoolmaster who boarded with us. In my boyhood in our lonely farmhouse we had scanty sources of information, few books and only a small weekly newspaper. Our only annual was the almanac. Under such circumstances story-telling was a natural resource in the long winter evenings. My father, when a young man, had traversed the wilderness in Canada, and could tell-us of his sojourns in the French villages. My uncle was ready with his record of hunting and fishing, and mother, who was born in the Indian-haunted region of New Hampshire, told us of the experiences of her ancestors." Today the visitor to the farm house may see every detail as pictured even to the turkey wing used to brush up the hearth. Whittier's parents belonged to the Society of Friends known as Quakers. Growing up in this strict simple faith prepared him to be the foremost religious poet of America. He is better known, however, for his great pastoral poem ?Snowbound" an idyl of pioneer life in any rural section RELIEF SOCIETY. MAGAZINE of the country in the nineteenth century. The poem consists of descriptions, characterizations, and reminiscences of the group by the fireside. The setting of the poem is the snow storm, outside a world glistening and unknown, inside seated -about the clean-winged hearth enjoying nuts, apples, and cider, the dear family circle. Spending the time with stories old, the men folks entertained as mother turned her wheel, dear aunt with gracious calm dreamed of her girlhood memories, and the elder sister plied the evening tasks. The interesting character of the family circle is the schoolmaster 'brisk wielder of the birch and rule," at school, yet "a careless boy around the fire he seemed." A week passed by and the glad sound of sleigh-bells announced the village doctor on his rounds and the family was snowbound no longer. The schoolmaster of "Snowbound" is interesting when compared with a similar characterization by Goldsmith in "The Deserted Village." "A man severe he was, and stearn to view Yet he was kind, or if severe inaught, The love he bore to learning was in fault; The 'village all declared how much he knew. "Twas certain he could write, and cipher too While words of learned length and thundering sound Amazed the gazing rustics ranging round; And still they gazed, and still the wonder grew That one small head could carry all he knew." Laureates of Childhood James Whitcomb Riley and Eugene LESSON DEPARTMENT Field have endeared themselves to many because of their poetry of childhood. The "Hoosier Poet" of humble scenes of rustic America sang out of his love of children "Awake he loved their voices, And wove them into rhyme; And the music of their laughter Was with him all the time." James Whitcomb Riley was trained for a lawyer but he left school for the carefree life with a band of traveling actors down the great Ohio Valley. The, way to literature came with service as a columnist in a newspaper office. Several volumes of poems were published this way. Mingling smiles and tears in Hoosier dialect, Riley sang his way to the hearts of the American people. There is genuine melody in "An Old Sweetheart of Mine," and "An Old Swimmin' Hole." "Afterwhiles," "When the Frost is on the Punkin," and "Little Orphan Annie" never grow old. Eugene Field also met his first literary success as a journalist; he was one of the first newspaper columnists. Humor, pathos, and sentiment mark the verse of Eugene Field; sparkle and gay abandon the prose. "Little Boy Blue" strikes the depths of feeling; "Sharps and Flats" furnished daily laughs for the readers of the day. As a fore-runner of the columnists?Heywood Broun, Christopher Morley, and George Ade?Eugene Field is remembered, but today's writer who best resembles the pioneer in style and content is Franklin Pierce Adams, the "F. P. A." of the New York World. "Limitations of Youth," 'Seein' Things," and "Wynken, Blynken, and Nod" are read today with enjoyment and appreciation. -"oe 385 Acres of Diamonds The celebrated lecturer, Dr. Russel Cornwell, and founder of Temple University coined for all time the significance of the words "Acres of Diamonds" to preach the gospel "Right where you are is the place for fortune and happiness." The celebrated lecture "Acres of Diamonds" begins with the story that gives it its title: The lecturer was traveling down the river Tigris with an Arab guide when he first heard the story: Alf Hafed, a wealthy Hindu, lived on the banks of the Indus in content and security. Hearing from a mendicant priest the value and beauty of diamonds, Alf Hafed knew rest no more. Settling his estate he went off in quest of "a mine of diamonds." He wandered in many lands, reduced himself to poverty and died in despair. The man who bought Alf Hafed's farm one day led his camel out into the garden to drink. As the animal put its nose down into the shallow stream a flash of light came from the sands?and thus were discovered the diamond mines of Golconda?acres of diamonds. Incident follows incident in other famous lectures, each one teaching the gospel of opportunity, and extolling the glory of the commonplace. Guide to Preparation A. Suggested topics for Lesson Assignments. Pioneer Days?The setting of "Snowbound," Whittier. 2. Robert Burns?Peasant Singer. 3. Reading: "The Cotter's Saturday Night," Burns. 4. Description?The Scene of Gray's Elegy. 5. Retold Story?'Acres of Diamonds," Dr. Cornwell. 386 Guide to Reading A. "The Deserted Village,' Goldsmith. A poem of pastoral beauty, painting the portraits of two passing figures, the village preacher and the rural schoolmaster. B. Janice Meredith, Paul Leicester Ford. Colonel Carter of Cartersville, L. H. Smith. Stories of Colonial Days in America. C. "Richard Carvel'? ? Winston Churchill. "A Man for the Ages??Irving Bacheller. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Stories painting vividly, pictures of Civil War days and the great emancipator, Abraham Lincoln. D. "Master Skylark"?John Bennet. "Kenilworth''?Scott. Stories of the days of Shakespeare. E. "The Little Shepherd of Kingdom Come''?John Fox, Jr. A story of the Civil War days for the family circle. Boys especially will enjoy this human interest story. Note: Each teacher should choose from the wealth of material this lesson offers the selections that will best fit her class. Bibliography for Literary Lessons WE publish herewith the titles, of the literary lessons for 1935-36 and underneath each title, books that may be used in the lesson. We wish to emphasize again that we do not expect any teacher to cover all the material in the lesson, but to select such parts as she thinks will best fit her group. It would be well for the teacher during the summer to try to locate these books and read as many as possible, also to ask librarians to keep them on reserve during the months when they will be needed for the lesson work, The first few lessons can be thoroughly prepared during the summer vacation, as they are appearing in the Magazine, the first one beg nning in the May issue. We expect the work will be unusually fine next season because of this added time for preparation. LESSON FOR OCTOBER ADVENTURES IN READING Hans Christian Anderson. The Clay Cart?Sanskrit. The Soul of the Great Bell?Chinese. Evangeline?Longfellow. The Land of the Blue Flower?Van Dyke. Norse Stories Retold ? Hamilton Mabie. The Oxford Book of Ballads, Edited hy Sir Arthur Quiller?Couch. The Boy Knight of Rheims. The Trumpeter of Cracon?Toundsbury.: The Arabian Nights. LESSON FOR NOVEMBER THE GLORY OF THE COMMONPLACE Snowbound?Whittier. Poems?Robert Burns. Gray's Elegy. Acres of Diamonds?Cornwell. The Deserted Village?Goldsmith. Janice Meredith ? Paul Leicester Ford. Colonel Carter of Cartersville?L. H. Smith. Stories of Colonial Days in America. Richard Carvel?Winston Churchill. A Man for the Ages?Irving Bacheller. Stories of Abraham Lincoln. Master Skylark?John Bennet. Kenelworth?Scott. The Little Shepherd of Come?John Fox, Jr. Poems of Eugene Field. DECEMBER LESSON SOUL HARBORS Excelsior?Longfellow. A Man for the Ages?Irving Bacheller. The Life of Saint Francis d'Assisi? Paul Sabitier. How to Live on Twenty Four Hours A Day?Arnold Bennett. In Memoriam?Tennyson. Kingdom LESSON DEPARTMENT JANUARY LESSON THE MAGIC OF IMAGINATION Peter Pan?Barrie. The Blue Bird?Maeterlinck. Mid-Summer Night's Dream?Shakespeare. The Life of the Bee?Maeterlinck. The Celtic Twilight?Yeats. Chanticler?Rostand. LESSON FOR FEBRUARY BOOK FRIENDS Pippa Passes?Browning. Charles Dickens, Human'st. David Copperfield?Dickens. The Bishop's Candlesticks from Les Miserables?Hugo. Men and Women?Browning. LESSONS FOR APRIL COMPANIONABLE BOOKS A Life of Benjamin Franklin. The Life of Samuel Johnson?James Boswell. The Life of Elbert Hubbard. An American Bible?Hubbard. Essays, Self Reliance, Compensation ?Emerson. The Book Nobody Knows?Bruce Barton. 387 Mothers and Children?Fisher. Long and Short Arrows?Brimhall. Adventures in Contentment?Grayson. LESSON FOR MAY A WOMAN'S ADVENTURE Life of Jane Austin. Life of Jane Eyre. Ite of Charlotte Bronte?E. C. Gaskell. Poems of Emily Bronte. Testament of Youth?Vera Brittan. The Piper-?-Josephine Peabody. Margaret Ogilvy?James Barrie. Her Son's Wife?Dorothy Canfield Fisher. Poems for a Little Girl?Hilda Conklin. LESSON FOR JUNE NEW LAMPS FOR OLD Plet?Alfred Lambourne. The Prophet?Kahil Gibran. The Canterbury Pilgrims ? Percy MacKaye. Magic Spades?Steffins. The Exiles?Alfred Osmond. The King's Henchman?fFdna St. Vincent Millay. Social Service (For Fourth Week in November) Lesson JI?Tue Use or our NATURAL RESOURCES Text, Civic Sociology, Edward A. Ross CHAPTER II The general purposes of this lesson are: 1. To translate into terms of every day living the facts of the decreasing abundance of natural resources. 2. To acquire the attitude of using natural resources for the greatest good of the greatest number and for the longest time. This can be accomplished by first acquiring a knowledge of the facts presented in the text and in the lesson guide and secondly by relating the information to present conditions of life. As a result of the increasing pres sure upon the natural resources of the country show that the following statements are present reactions to the situation. 1. Homes cannot be acquired now as easily as they were during the past generation. 2. Today, arable land cannot be secured except by purchase at advanced prices. 3. The desire for the independence and freedom of the great "outof-doors" cannot be easily satisfied. 4. Large margins of profit from the soil or from industry cannot be looked for at the present time. 388 5. Children should not be left to an uncertain future on the basis of our own past experiences or the achievements of our grandparents. 6. We cannot go out to conquer the wilderness with the assurance of economic independence as a reward for hard work. Show that the following obligations are a result of the above reactions: 1. We must realize we are entering a new social and economic era. 2. We must strive to prepare our young people to meet the new era. 3. We must learn to conserve all goods and resources for ourselves and future generations. 4. We must realize that our duty is to the future generations as well as to the present.. The physical conditions under which any group of people lives determines very largely the culture of that particular group. The association of all groups of people is characterized by a particular type of culture. The term "culture" in sociology is used to describe the associated, organized life of society, its thoughts, habits, and patterns of behavior, or that which characterized it as distinct from another society. The abundant resources of the United States have gone far in determining the culture of the people. The characteristics of the western mining communities, the cattle and sheep ranchers of the west, the fishermen who search for the fruit of the sea, are all guided in their cultural development by the physiographical character of the locality in which they live. With the trend in the United States definitely pointing toward an increasing pressure on natural resources life must assume a new basis of culture. Natural conditions have been one of the most important forces shaping the destiny of man. His mind has RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE been stimulated to reverence natural phenomena, leading him to deify the various forces, and thus to worship them as gods. His reverence and respect for powers greater than his own have been attributed partly to the geographic conditions under which he lived. These conditions have played a most important part in his development. The early history of man shows that he followed those regions where natural resources made living easy because the climate was mild, or where the fertile river valleys made agriculture profitable, or where game lived in abundance to furnish food. Man has struggled constantly to harness the forces of nature. Increasing civilization has indicated increasing domination over nature, and the overcoming of natural barriers, mountains, rivers, and oceans, thus making arid regions also contribute to the sustenance of man-. Kind. The energy of waterfalls and coal beds has been converted into productive enterprise. Through sanitation the fever-stricken and unhealthy places of the earth have been reclaimed. Man's progress can be measured by his domination over the forces of nature. As long as he was struggling to control the forces of nature his mental and emotional life was greatly colored by that struggle. Today, however, his emotional life is increasingly controlled by the economic organization, the culture, and the mechanical nature of civilization as it has developed. It is only reasonable, then, to assume that man's entire life including his spiritual, emotional, and economic views, will be different today from what it has been in the past, under the influences of the present industrial and machine age. We may well ask what effect the culture and achievements of the present age will have upon man's spiritual and religious ideals? In relation to the second objective LESSON DEPARTMENT of the lesson, the former extravagant use of natural resources is described as follows: "More than three-fourths of our original forest area has been culled, cut over, or burned, since colonial times. Wholesale logging methods have swept vast areas bare of valuable timber. Careless cutting has wasted a quarter of our timber supply. In the lumber mills about 40 per cent of the entire volume of the logs is lost by wasteful methods of work. Since 1870 forest fires have annually destroyed more than $50,000,000 worth of timber. Our timber supply is diminishing three or four times as fast as we replenish it. Deforestation has also an injurious effect upon agriculture. When heavy rains wash valuable surface soil from the tops and sides of hills these denuded areas are rendered less valuable for grazing, while the over abundance of top soil in the valley retards effective cultivation. Agriculture also suffers from the fact that streams which would ordinarily furnish a steady supply of irrigation water are often either in a state of flood or practically dried up.; The result is higher prices for coal, wood, iron, oil, gas, and similar commodities. It is at least partly due to the heavy drain upon our resources that the cost of building homes, heating them, feeding the population, and carrying on the varied activities of American industry has increased. Natural resources should be safeguarded for the benefit of the people as a whole, yet much of our natural wealth has been monopolized by individuals. Four-fifths of our timber lands are privately owned, and of that four-fifths about half is con389 trolled by 250 companies. Two-thirds of the developed water power in this country is controlled by a small group of power interests. Defective land laws, the lax administration of good laws, and extravagant land grants to railroads have allowed private fortunes to be built up without a proportionate advantage to the public. Coal and petroleum deposits are controlled largely by a few corporations, while a heavy percentage of our copper and iron deposits is in private hands." (Williams and Wesley, "Principles of Social Science," pp. 66-.....) Activities 1. If your own community was originally settled through man's effort to exploit some of the natural resources, show that the entire life of the community has been colored by that original purpose. If the resource had been other than what it was, what differences would have developed? Compare the religious, social, and intellectual life of the average agricultural community with that of the average mining community. 2. Show the relationship between ? the following signs often seen in the "great out of doors" and the preservation of our resources, "Don't pick the. Wild flowers," "break your match," "put out your fire," "Clean your camp," "You drink this water." As citizens what obligation have we after reading such suggestion? 3. Discuss the proposition, 'No one has the right to use a natural resource lavishly even though there is plenty." 4. Outline the particular conservation needs of your own community. References: Van Hise, ''Conservation of Natural Resources."  Mission Lessons HEALTH LESSONS 1935-1936 Lesson I]?Fresu Air AND SUNSHINE HE autobiography of Doctor Trudeau is a book written in the blood of a human heart. He was an ambitious intelligent young American who in the course of his medical studies contracted tuberculosis of the lungs. Judged by the previous record of that dreaded disease he had just one chance in fifteen for recovery. <A tragedy stared him in the face. Undismayed he undertook his own cure. He got outside of houses and slept in the open where he could have the fresh air uncontaminated. In the coldest winter weather he covered himself up warm and slept out: though he was at Saranac Lake high in the Adirondacks where the temperature went away below zero. He discovered that God made the medicine that cures tuberculosis, and gives it to us without charge. Previous to his time a diagnosis of consumption was almost like a death sentence. In the vain hope of doing something the physician prescribed creosote, and cod liver oil, and other drugs, but they did little good. But Trudeau showed that fresh air is the only medicine we can rely on, and he established what is known as the sanatorium treatment of tuberculosis. The plan of the sanatorium is to arrange an outdoor sleeping porch for each patient, abundance of nourishing food, and rest in bed when there is fever. If it is started early in the disease, before cavities have formed in the lungs, there is a good chance for cure. Now while fresh air has revolutionized the treatment of tuberculosis it is shown to be of great benefit in all other diseases. If we are in perfect health we are not nearly so likely to contract an infectious disease as we are if our vitality for any reason is diminished. Sleeping in a room which is not properly ventilated, and where we have to breathe contaminated air, is one of the most effectual ways of lowering our vitality. The germs of disease are all around us, 25% of people have the organism of pneumonia habitually in their throats. They do not contract the disease, although they have the germs in their system, as long as the vitality is kept up to standard. But let that individual with the pneumonia germs in his throat go for several hours in the cold with wet clothing, or let him sleep in a stuffy room where he breathes contaminated air, and his vitality will be so lowered that the germs can lodge in the lung and start a process of pneumonia, which will be very serious. We should always keep the sleeping apartment well ventilated, It is the custom with some people to shut the windows of their bedroom up at night, because they fear that there is danger in night air. One wonders what other kind of air we could breathe at night but night air. Now wherever we are whether in Germany, or England, or France, or America, or any other part of the world it is important to ventilate well our houses by day and by night if we would keep our vitality up to the point of resistance. We shall thereby not only prevent illness, but help to cure ourselves of any infection we may already have contracted. In the older days the author of this article saw a real miracle. The New Testament tells of the pool of Bethesda at Jerusalem, where many LESSON DEPARTMENT indigent people lay around year after year watching for the water, and that whoever got in the pool first after the stirring would be cured of his disease. In the great London Hospital at Mile End, I saw multitudes of people with the apparently uncurable disease known as lupus, which is really tuberculosis of the skin, waiting around the clinic month after month and year after year in the hope that somebody could do something for them. Then an angel did come and stir the water and they all began to get well. The Danish born queen Alexandria went back to her native Copenhagen and learned of the work of Finson in the application of light for the treatment of diseases. Finson had noticed that the children on the sunny side of the dormitory always seemed to thrive better and look more ruddy than those on the shady side. He invented great lenses for concentrating the sunlight on certain diseased areas like the patches of lupus, and found that it would cure them. Queen Alexandria installed a Finson light apartment in the London Hospital on her return from Copenhagen to the great relief of those indigent subjects of lupus. On my return after an absence of nine years I saw nurses at relays of twenty minutes applying concentrated pencils of light to the patches of lupus, and these unfortunate people were actually being cured of their disease, 391 and moving on. With trees and shrubs and flowers we note the effect on their growth and their apparent vitality of sunlight. Those which grow under the shadow of the house or in any position' where they fail to get their full contingent of sunshine, do not thrive and prosper as the same plants do when they get the sunlight unimpeded. And the same thing is true of human beings. We thrive best when we get a proper amount of sunshine. The sunlight is a very powerful disinfectant. Mattresses or blankets from the sick room which cannot easily be sterilized by other methods will be rapidly sterilized by laying then out in the bright sunlight. But the sunlight must not have to pass through window glass or it loses its power. Questions Tell about the work of Doctor Trudeau. What great system of treatment did he discover?; How does fresh air prevent us from taking diseases? Why should we not shut the windows at night? " How does the sanitorium treat tuberculosis? Why should we choose a sunny room for the sick person? How may we use the sunshine as a disinfectant? What benefit can you imagine from the sun bath?