Our Shrines in the Holy Land By Leah D. Widtsoe
To a member of this Church, no trip to the Holy Land is complete without a visit to the final resting places of our dear and valiant sons who have laid down their lives while serving their fellow men in behalf of the restored Gospel of Jesus Christ. A deeply appreciated visit was made to this interesting country by Brother John A. Widtsoe in the summer of 1933, while he was serving as president of the European Mission. The visit had a two fold purpose. President Joseph Wilford Booth, who had spent the best years of his manhood in this mission, was suddenly called Home to the great Beyond on December 5, 1928. He was on a visit to the members of the Church in Aleppo, a city in Syria, when the "call" came to him very suddenly, through a heart attack. That country since the war has been under the mandate of France, and according to law, no body may be removed within a year of death. So the people buried their beloved president and deeply mourned his passing. Sister Booth, the capable and loving wife of the president, closed the affairs of the mission as best she could with the help of Brother Ralph V. Chisholm, a secretary of the European Mission, who had just been released and was sent to assist her in this great crisis of her life. She returned to her home, and during the year the family of President Booth decided to leave his remains in the country which he had served so valiantly and amongst the people whom he loved so well. The Church decided to place a suitable monument over his final resting place and Brother Widtsoe was commissioned to see that one was prepared and installed with fitting ceremonies.
A New President For The Mission
Meantime the mission had been without a president since the passing of Brother Booth. Finally, in the latter part of 1932, Brother Badwagen Piranian, a native Armenian, born in Turkey, but later a resident of Switzerland and a stalwart Latter-day Saint, was chosen to fill this important position. So Brother Widtsoe's commission was two-fold: to dedicate President Booth's monument and to install a new president of the Palestine-Syrian Mission. The way was opened for the writer also to visit this mission, and a life-time of extra service will be but slight repayment for this glorious privilege.
Joseph Wilford Booth
President Booth was called as a young man on his first mission to the Turkish Mission, as it was then called, in August, 1898, where he remained until May, 1902. His second mission was from August, 1903, to November, 1909; and his last mission was from September, 1921, until his death in 1928—a total of more than eighteen years of active, intelligent and devoted service in behalf of the spread of Truth amongst these ancient peoples. The name was later changed to the Armenian Mission because most of the members of the Church there were of that race. He was made president of the mission for his last two terms of service. During most of the time of the last two missions his devoted wife, Mary Rebecca Moyle Booth, was with him, and for many years they were the only missionaries from Zion to labor with these millions of Arabs, Turks, Jews and Armenians in whose land this mission was established. His labors took him into the countries of Turkey, Armenia, Syria, Greece and Palestine. Indeed, during his travels he covered most of the country traversed by our Savior and his Apostles, and in all of them he labored as diligently and faithfully as did any of the missionaries of old. This wide experience combined with his intensely studious habits enabled him to become a recognized authority on matters pertaining to the Holy Land and the Near East as a whole. In fact, the last mission of Brother Booth was undertaken under an appointment to care for the disbursement of the funds and clothing gathered by the Church to alleviate the suffering of the Near-East refugees who were so cruelly treated by the Turks during the late World War. No better man could have been chosen, and he performed his many labors so successfully that he became the ideal of manhood for these down-trodden peoples. His photograph is placed beside that of the Prophet Joseph in most of the humble homes of our Armenian people today. They love and honor him as a real man of God. They love his wife also, for she was always his loyal and devoted companion in all his work. In his Journal of May 1, 1905, while at Aintab, Turkey, Brother Booth writes:
"May 1, 1905—At Aintab, Turkey. Reba (his pet name for his wife) and I took a walk through the cemetery where there were multitudes of people. I estimated them at from 15,000 to 20,000 people. We visited Elder Simmons' grave and then wandered around among the tombs and met many friends and held conversation with some of them. * * *
"What a difference of feeling among the people toward us from what there was about 6 years ago, when Elder Phil Maycock and I were driven from these grounds under a shower of stones. Now we have hundreds of friends among them. During the day a number of friends called to see us. Professor John E. Merrill was among them, and I talked with him two or three hours on the Mormon question.
"Ate supper at Nersis Kuljians and enjoyed the evening.
"This May Day has been a beautiful one, for the weather was almost ideal, and we have had the pleasure of meeting so many of our friends whom we trust will some day be counted as our brethren and sisters."
What a delightful insight into his heart and labor is afforded us by this simple recital! He was truly a great missionary. President Booth was a dear and loved brother of Sister James E. Talmage, who was always loyal and helpful to him during his long missionary labors. She took a most active interest in the welfare of the Armenian people and for many years, at a great cost of time and labor on her part, undertook to sell to friends and neighbors, some of the handiwork of these far-away members of our Church. The Armenian people love Sister Talmage for her unselfish labor on their behalf. Apostle Talmage while president of the European Missions visited President Booth in Palestine and was instrumental with him in moving the headquarters of the mission to Haifa where they are now located. He, too, was always interested in the Armenian Mission as it was once called. The name has now been changed to the Palestine-Syrian Mission, for it is hoped that many people other than Armenians may hear the voice of the true Shepherd and may accept restored Truth.
The Monument and Resting Place
The cemetery at Aleppo, in Syria, where President Booth died, is out of town and beautifully situated on a hillside overlooking the country for miles around. The Armenian part faces the west, and Brother Booth's resting place is high up toward the upper boundary of the enclosure. The view of the rolling hills toward the setting sun is most inspiring, even though the country is arid and devoid of trees and vegetation in the summer. During the rainy season a carpet of wild flowers everywhere makes up in loveliness for the heat and drought of summer. The members of the Church had built a modest headstone and a large slab of concrete to cover the grave and to express their lasting gratitude for his devotion to their welfare. The large monument later installed by the Church is a fitting memorial, built of the best Scotch granite, and made in Liverpool, England. It is easily the most imposing in the Armenian section, and one of the best in the entire cemetery. On the monument, in enduring lead which will not rust nor corrode, is written the following:
JOSEPH WILFORD BOOTH President of the Armenian Mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Born at Alpine, Utah, U. S. A. 14th August, 1866 Died at Aleppo, Syria 5th December, 1928
For Eighteen Years He served faithfully as a missionary Elder in Turkey, Greece, Syria and Palestine
Though dead he lives in the hearts Of a host who hold him In honorable and loving remembrance
"Whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it."
When the larger monument was placed, the small headstone of the members was put back of the larger one, so that their expressed loyalty might be permanent also.
Dedicatory Service
On a hot Sunday afternoon, June 18, 1933, the dedicatory service over the grave and monument of President Booth was held. Present were all the members of the Branch and some friends, about fifty in number. The service was held in the late afternoon to avoid the heat of the day. Because of the scarcity of water, few flowers were to be had; but a large bouquet was purchased, and all the Saints who desired were asked to bring their tribute, even though it were but one green twig or leaf. Brother Garabed Sulahian brought an enlarged picture of their much loved past president, and the few flowers and greenery were placed around this, in evidence of their devotion. After singing, in English, "Come Listen to a Prophet's Voice," in which most of the people participated, prayer was offered by the Branch President, Brother Nazar Bezzian. Sister Booth had sent a pressed bouquet of flowers which grew over their doorway at Alpine, Utah, requesting that "they should be placed on Wilford's grave." This was done by Sister Widtsoe after the opening exercises. They were later placed under the small headstone so that they could not be blown away. Just as the sun was setting, Brother Widtsoe made a few remarks, and then gave a beautiful dedicatory prayer, after which all sang "We Thank Thee O God for a Prophet." President Piranian dismissed the service. Soon the people scattered, and we were left alone in the brief twilight to enjoy the spirit of peace, which pervaded the scene. Thank God for the knowledge that our friend is a busy missionary Over There, even though his body is waiting in a quiet, somewhat lonely spot in the hallowed land of our Savior's ministry.
Other Shrines
Unfortunately, there are several of our young missionaries who have laid down their lives in this far away land. Amongst the number is Brother Edgar Simmons, who died in 1889, and is buried in Aintab, Turkey. We have noted President Booth's visit to his grave in 1905. While in Aleppo we also visited the resting place of Brother Emil J. Huber, who died in May, 1908. There, too, we placed some flowers and gave a silent prayer of gratitude for his service and sacrifice. In the Haifa cemetery we visited the tombs of two more of our valiant sons whose remains lie peacefully in the Holy Land. Brother Adolph Haag, who passed away in October, 1892, and Brother John A. Clark in February, 1895. Here, too, we placed some flowers in memory of their devotion to the Gospel. In each case our thoughts went out to the families of these dear lads, and our prayers for the continued comfort and blessing of their dear ones yet on earth were heartfelt and sincere. We sensed again, most keenly, that Greater love hath no man than that he is willing to lay down his life for the welfare of fellow-man.
The Prospect Today
To the mothers of future missionaries who may be called to this most interesting mission, may I pass a reassuring word. The scourge of small pox which carried off some of these missionaries is largely conquered today. If a young man is healthy when he leaves home, if he will care for himself hygienically and live on simple foods, as do the native peoples—which is but living the Word of Wisdom in its positive as well as in its negative aspects—he will be as safe in this as in any other mission on earth. However, here obedience to this wise law of health is imperative. There is a great work in these lands awaiting the messengers of the true Gospel of Christ. The Jews are there in great numbers, and one day will hear "the call of the Shepherd." The countless descendants of Ishmael must also hear the message of Truth, for they too are God's children. Verily, is the field white for the harvest. May our Father bless and prosper this mighty work in the Holy Land, as elsewhere upon earth!