Donna Durrant Sorensen By Marie H. Tanner
Donna Durrant Sorensen was born in Spanish Fork, Utah County, Utah, December 24, 1904. She is the daughter of Agnes Lewis of Spanish Fork and of the late Lorenzo J. Durrant of American Fork. Her grandparents on both sides were converts from the British Isles and crossed the plains shortly after the original pioneers. She has ever complied with the fifth commandment: "Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee." This love and loyalty to her parents is also expressed in the verse:
"If I could give you just one gift, I'd try to make your dreams come true, I'd see that my life was so spent That I would be a monument, commemorating you."
When Donna was eight years old, her family moved to Thatcher, Idaho, engaging in the Creamery Business but when she was in the sixth grade, her father moved his family to Provo that they might have the educational advantages of a Church school. Donna entered the sixth grade of the B. Y. University training school continuing until she graduated from the college in 1927.
She gave efficient service as a Sunday School teacher and was called to labor in the Central States Mission from June, 1924, until June, 1926. Sister Lottie T. Bennion, who was mission mother during this time, says: "Donna was a remarkably outstanding missionary. She has a pleasing personality, was a staunch student, was very spiritual and had a broad understanding of the Gospel. She could enter many homes where others failed. Sister Sorensen was especially kind and interested in the new missionaries and was very agreeable with all her companions. She labored around St. Louis and Kansas City and spent one year at the Independence office doing clerical work. She never missed an opportunity of bearing her testimony and with her musical ability, was a great help in the conference. She was a ray of sunshine in the mission home."
Upon her return from her mission, she taught English and speech in the American Fork High School for two years. While there she worked in the Mutual Improvement Association teaching in the Bee Hive group. She has also taught the Gleaner and Senior Departments and was counselor to the President of the Y. W. M. I. A. Of the Capitol Hill Ward. She served as secretary of the Utah State Returned Missionaries for three years. Part of her duty was to arrange for their Sunday appointments and to plan their programs. Sister Sorensen was married to Wesley A. Sorensen in the Salt Lake Temple, October, 1929. Brother Sorensen is very solicitous in his anxiety to be of assistance to her. She has his faith and support in all her labors and perfect love and harmony exists in their home.
The art of teaching is an inherent bent of her nature. She was the Theology class leader in the Jefferson Ward during the winter of 1933 and '34. Her Relief Society President said: "Sister Sorensen inspired the Sisters to look their best and to come better prepared on that day than any other." Sister Sorensen was called to be the Social Service Class Leader of the Wells Stake Relief Society in the summer of 1934. She felt this was a new line of work and in order to prepare for the winter program, she attended many lectures in the extension work of the University of Southern California during her vacation there. She also made good use of their wonderful library. Sister Sorensen took the Welfare course under Sister Lyman to broaden her field for this particular calling; she also visited all the State and private institutions for the physically and mentally handicapped. While listening to a radio talk, she learned of a new book written by Laura E. Richards of the life of her father, Samuel Gridly Howe. She used this book as supplementary reading for her lesson on the handicapped child. She wrote to Mrs. Richards and received a gracious answer. These letters were recently published in the Relief Society Magazine. There are two kinds of teachers, those who come prepared and those who come with excuses. She led with an assurance that comes only with preparation and a love for her work. All her work has been done joyously, and all who have come in contact with her, have felt radiating from her a spirit of delight that characterizes only those who love deeply and sincerely the work they are doing. The greatest service you can render anyone, is that which helps the person to help himself. Class leaders who have visited her department have come to learn to use the material they have gathered. Sister Sorensen inspires others to do their part well; she has the ability to see and appreciate in others what is good and beautiful and as a result, she has the power to attract love and devotion. She is modest and unassuming and has charm and personality. She has honored and dignified every calling. She has great strength of character and a will to do the right. Undoubtedly the greatest thing in her life that colored her whole existence, the thing that is life to her, is the Gospel. She is a true Latter-day Saint, living up to the requirements of the Gospel and putting into practice those things she is to advocate to others. Sister Sorensen will fill her new position with grace and inspiration while acknowledging her constant dependence on that divine guidance which she has ever sought and found.
It is a divine command to read good books. He who loves books is richer culturally than he who merely owns a library full of them. The poor man enjoys their contents as much as the rich. Not what we read but what we remember makes us cultured. There is no magazine on the market more wholesome than the Relief Society Magazine. —Sarah M. McLelland.