Notes from the Field Julia A. F, Lund—General Secretary Eastern States Mission
FROM Palmyra Branch, New York, comes a message to the Relief Society office. Though this organization is not so large, it is most enthusiastic. For the Project work each sister is reading some book of Scripture and reporting to the Secretary each month. On March 17 a very delightful pageant was prepared and presented. This was called "The Book that Lives," and was a beautiful representation of the characters in costume. The Relief Society in Palmyra cooperates with other welfare organizations and the Commissioner of Public Welfare. This cooperation keeps the Relief Society informed of what is done and gives the members an opportunity to do much excellent work. The Branch President, Sister Bean, has charge of some of the older ladies who get the Old Age Pension. Each month the checks are made out to her, and she supervises the expenditures for these elderly people. To quote from her letter: "I just love these old ladies, and they look forward each month to my coming." Notes from Palmyra, which means so much to the Latter-day Saints, are always of deep interest.
Samoan Mission
FROM far away Samoa comes a message of enthusiasm and development. The sisters are very happy in the work of the Lord. A delightful Annual Day meeting was held and the sisters of several branches met together. Talks appropriate to the occasion were given and appointments made to visit other branches. Some of the sisters walked twenty-five miles in the rain, for at this season it is not uncommon to have continued rain for six days and nights. It took practically a week to make the visits and hold the different conferences. The Samoan sisters are so anxious to do their duty, and though the organizations are small in numbers they accomplish a great deal of good. During the latter part of March a very delightful meeting was held. In the forenoon the sisters had a display of the mats which they made themselves, and this was followed by a dinner, to which Mission President Sears, and Relief Society Mission President Agnes M. Sears, were invited. In addition to the native food chicken, soup, cocoa, pies, cakes, puddings were served. They excel particularly in cake making. The President reports that during the beginning of the year branch conferences were held and visits made to all organizations. In January a new branch, several miles distant from Apia, was organized. Here there are some very splendid native missionaries. Eighteen people were baptized, nineteen children were blessed.
Washington, D. C. Branch
On Sunday night, March 17, a very delightful meeting was held in honor of the Relief Society anniversary. An excellent historical sketch, giving the aims and accomplishments of the organization, was presented, as well as tributes to the past Branch Presidents of the organization, in keeping with the request made by President Robison that the living and past Presidents be honored in the anniversary celebration this year. The musical part of the meeting was very delightful. The Relief Society Chorus, which Brother Edward P. Kimball has trained, gave some fine numbers, and the special organ music, with congregational singing made the event one long to be remembered. It was remarked by many present that the meeting was one of the finest ever held in the new chapel. This enterprising branch of the Eastern States Mission is especially fortunate in being able to carry on the outlined lesson work, and they find the Relief Society Magazine a very great aid. On March 15 a concert and reception was sponsored by the Washington Relief Society. The following program was very successfully carried out: Invocation, Dr. Melvin C. Merrill, Instrumental Trio—(a) Minuet from Suite Bergamasque, Claude DeBussy; (b) Reverie—opus 9 No. 4, Richard Strauss, Frieda Hauf Irwin, Violin; Myra Grant Wallace, cello; Frances O'Neill Berrett; Piano, Contralto Solo (a) Mon Coeur S'ouvre a Ta Voix—"Samson and Delilah" — Saint-Saens; (b) I Love Life — Mana-Zucca, Ruby Epperson McQuarrie. Violin Solo (a) Walther's Prize Song—Wagner; (b) Canzonetta—d'Ambrozio, Max G. Lloyd. Piano Solo (a) Impromptu in C Sharp Minor—Hugo Reinhold; (b) Valse—opus 70 No. 1—Chopin, Bernice Jacobs Manwaring. Male Quartette (a) Give a Man a Horse He Can Ride—Jeoffrey O'Hara; (b) Nola—Felix Ardnt, Clifford Webb, Jessie R. Smith, James K. Knudsen, Frances R. Kirkham. Violin and Piano Sonata — Cesar Franck: Milton Schwartz, violin; Cicely Adams Brown, piano. Ladies' Chorus (a) Solvejg's Song—Greig: (b) Giannina Mia—Friml; Directed by Edward P. Kimball; Accompanied by Frances O'Neill Berrett..
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Northern States Mission
SISTER ARTEMESIA ROMNEY, Relief Society President of the Northern States Mission, reports a very successful year's work in Relief Society. In common with other missions, more enthusiasm, willingness to serve and determination to follow the programs outlined in the Magazine, brings the work to a higher standard than ever before. The lessons are greatly appreciated, and much enlightenment is in evidence from the books which are read, and the knowledge of the fine things which our sisters make their own, from the study courses. Singing practice is one of the special features in most of the branches. The Scripture Project is carried through with great enthusiasm. The Annual Convention of officers of all the various organizations which was held in Chicago in the late Fall was of great benefit. It was a new experience for the saints in that part of the country and they are looking forward to other opportunities where they can meet in larger groups, exchange plans and ideas and receive instructions in their work. Nearly all of the branches of the mission were represented at this time. The Magazine subscriptions are increasing very materially, and considering the financial depression, a splendid record was established. The following questions which were sent out by the President indicate the thought given to the work: (1) What are your plans for Work and Business Meeting for the Winter? (2) What are you doing to increase membership? (3) What is your method of interesting young mothers to attend Relief Society? (4) What plan have you made to get members to study the lesson? (5) What methods do your teachers use to get members to take part in lesson discussion? (6) What is your Chorister doing to create interest in singing practice? (7) What is the nature of your parties that you sponsor to raise funds? (8) What plan do your Visiting Teachers use to convey the message to members? (9) What plan do you use to encourage missionary work among members? (10) What is your most successful method of collecting Dues? (11) What extra effort has been made during the past month to increase the Magazine subscription? It will be noted that a discussion of such a questionnaire covers practically every branch of Relief Society activity, and stimulates much interest.
North Central States Mission
SISTER ELFIE S. RICHARDS, Relief Society Mission President of the North Central States Mission, writes enthusiastically of the development of the work in this mission. The energy, zeal and faith of the sisters can be felt in every particular. Even in small groups, in remote sections of the mission, the work is progressing most satisfactorily. Union Meetings have been instituted in two branches—St. Paul and Minneapolis. Here all the officers and auxiliary workers meet together. It is proving to be very profitable in the advancement of Relief Society work. Practically one hundred per cent of the officers and teachers are in attendance. The Relief Society Singing Mothers of both of these branches have added greatly to the pleasure of the meetings by the numbers they have given. The department work also has offered the opportunity for instructions and cooperative work pertaining to Relief Society problems. It is the aim of the Mission Presidency to hold Union Meetings in other branches where conditions permit. To quote from Sister Richards' letter: "We are stressing the Project of Scripture reading, with the result that many of our sisters are finding a new and active interest in the standard works of the Church. We hope to carry forward a number of activities that will be worthy of report from time to time. Relief Society Conferences are to be held throughout the Mission in the next few weeks. The necessary plans and schedules are now in the hands of the local organizations that will make this program possible."
MINNEAPOLIS BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
LOUISE YATES ROBISON AMY BROWN LYMAN.KATE M. BARKER JULIA A. F. LUND Emma A. Empey Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD Ethel Reynolds Smith: President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Hazel H. Greenwood Annie Wells Cannon Rosannah C. Irvine Emeline Y. Nebeker Jennie B, Knight Nettie D. Bradford Mary Connelly Kimball Lalene H. Hart Elise B. Alder Janet M. Thompson Lotta Paul Baxter Inez K. Allen Belle S. Spafford Cora L, Bennion Ida P. Beal Donna Durrant Sorensen Amy Whipple Evans Marcia K. Howells
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Manager Mary Connelly Kimball Assistant Manager