Sarah M. McLelland By Mary C. Kimball
One of the great blessings of a long and useful life is to have a storehouse of memories of service well done and of a life filled with good deeds. Now, when Sarah M. McLelland can no longer be as active as she was of yore, she has such a storehouse of memories to draw from, for from her early girlhood she has been busily engaged in her Father's service.
Sarah M. McLelland comes of sturdy Scotch Irish lineage. Her parents, Thomas and Elizabeth McLelland, received the Gospel in Scotland in 1841. They gave devoted service to the Church in their native land from the time they joined until, impelled by their desire to meet the Prophet Joseph Smith, they emigrated to the United States on their wedding day in 1844. When they saw the Prophet Joseph Smith and his wife, Emma, and heard him speak with power on the Godhead, they said they felt repaid for their journey and when Brother McLelland shook hands with the Prophet a thrill went through him and he felt to say like Ruth of old, "Whither thou goest, I will go; and where thou lodgest, I will lodge: thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God." Brother McLelland worked as a stone cutter on the Nauvoo Temple and rejoiced in the completion of the House of the Lord. He was a member of the Nauvoo Legion. He and his wife passed through the hardships entailed by the expulsion of the Saints from Nauvoo. They arrived in Salt Lake in 1848. He assisted in building the Salt Lake Temple and also served for many years as Bishop and his wife as President of the Relief Society in the 7th Ward. ONE of the blessings of a long He served as a member of the City Council in 1870. It is not to be wondered then that the daughter of this faithful couple, born ten days after the Saints returned from camping on Utah Lake after Johnston's Army had marched through the city and established themselves at Camp Floyd, should devote her talents and energies to furthering the great Latter-day work. After attending the school of Franklin D. Richards and later that of Dr. Karl G. Maeser, she began her Church service as a Sunday School teacher in the first Farmer's Ward Sabbath School in 1876. She has been a bulwark of strength to that Ward ever since serving in its various organizations. For 10 years she was counselor and for 5 years class leader in the Y. W. M. I. A. For 4 years she served as a Stake Board member in the Granite Stake and was called to be Stake President of the Y. W. M. I. A., but was released from this obligation to become a member of the General Board of Relief Society May 12, 1911. During the years 1909 and 1910 she labored as a missionary in the Central States. When she received the call she thought, "Where shall I go for encouragement?" She opened her Bible and read, "Fear thou not; for I am with thee: be not dismayed; for I am thy God: I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness." Strengthened by these lines she went forward and the mission gave her the testimony Job received when he said, "I know that my redeemer lives." President Samuel O. Bennion said that in his long experience SARAH M,. McLelland there had been no better missionary than Sister McLelland. He said she came to the study period early in the morning well attired from her well-kept hair to her polished shoes. She was always ready for her work. She met the public graciously. She knew the Scriptures and how to use them. She was a worthy example to all women missionaries of her time and those who followed her. In 1911 she did missionary work on the Temple Block. In 1914 she took the Red Cross work given by the Relief Society. For 6 years she was a most successful teacher in the Senior and Theological classes in her Ward and also assisted at that time in the Teacher Training classes. For 24 years she was a most valued member of the General Board of Relief Society. She visited the organizations frequently, indeed, she has the highest number of visits made to Stakes of any member of her Board. In 1891 her twin brother's wife died, leaving six children under twelve years of age. Sarah assisted her mother in raising this family and when in 1900 her mother passed away, she cared for the children until her brother married again in 1907. They loved her as though she were their real mother. Most of them married from her home. She saw to it that all had the opportunity of a good education. She says she never permitted one of them to go to bed feeling badly towards her. Everything was always made right before they and she slept. She said, "children never hold anything against you; they forgive easily. It was Sister McLelland's privilege to attend the National Council of Women with President Emmeline B. Wells in 1913, the session being held in New York. She also went to the meetings held in St. Louis in 1918 in company with Julina Smith and Amy B. Lyman. She holds a 345 life membership in the Daughters of the Pioneers and is a member of the Genealogical Society of Utah. Although she has done so much public work, Sister McLelland has always been a good home maker. She is an expert needle woman. For years she earned her living as a dressmaker and later was a most efficient and charming clerk in Z. C. M. I. She delights in Scripture study. She observes closely, her information is always authentic, and she makes accurate deductions. She has always evidenced loyalty to the Church and its leadership and has conformed her life to its teachings. Her Ward Relief Society President says that she is always able to meet every situation and her presence lifts all to a higher level. While she is broad-minded and tolerant and exacting in herself, she is generous in her judgment of others. She says, that while Noah did get drunk he also built the Ark. Always willing to serve, the performance of her duty has been characterized by cheerfulness and efficiency. N. J. Teerlink, the Superintendent of the Sabbath School of her Ward, says, "One does not need to manufacture thoughts in an exaggerated way when one speaks of Sister McLelland, as her character stands out based on good deeds and example. "As a class instructor she has been unsurpassed, not only in regard to a knowledge of the Gospel, but with a perfect command of her audience or class, backed by proper enunciation and good articulation. She has always been able to control a group of younger folks, even those who were frequently uncontrollable by men teachers. "TI have heard her speak on programs as an extemporaneous speaker, and her talks always surpassed the ones given by those who were well prepared, both in material and delivery. 346 "Without flattery she is the Eliza Rk. Snow of our community, as far as leadership and dignity is concerned, qualified for any position that a woman can hold. "From her Sunday School classes have come some of the most prominent men and women in our city, including a Stake President, Bishops, heads of auxiliary organizations, and many missionaries. "To very few can the following tribute of President David O. McKay be given, but to me Sister Sarah McLelland has earned the following words to the letter, The religious teacher's duty is to lead her pupils over moral and ethical hills to the glorious heights of spirituality, where the Spirit of man may receive the illumination of God's Holy Spirit." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Sister McLelland has never sought office but has always responded to every call that has been made upon her, giving to each duty the best that was in her. She feels that her experience in the Relief Society work has greatly enriched her life for it has given her the opportunity of learning to serve by serving. Feeling that her health would no longer permit her to fulfill the duties of being on the General Board of Relief Society, she showed the right spirit in asking to be released so that another might be put in her place who could do the necessary work. Her request was granted and while Sister McLelland cannot longer actively participate in the work of the General Board she will never lose her interest in the great Relief Society Cause.