KEEPSAKES FOR THI TREASURE CHEST OF LIFE 367 way that would be worthy of a loving mother for her child. However, he was possessed of that wonderful spirit of discernment that it seemed to me, at all times he was able to decide which of these attitudes to use in order that justice and right should prevail. With this narrative of my remembrance and experiences of and with President Young, I can only say in conclusion, that I would to God I had the ability and words to express my great appreciation and love for this great Pioneer who led his people, under the inspiration and direction of Almighty God, from the Missouri River over an almost trackless plain to the Valley of the Great Salt Lake. Never can any of us forget how when he raised himself on his arm from a sickbed and looked on the Valley of the Great Salt Lake for the first time, he remarked prophetically, "Drive on, this is the place." God bless his memory and posterity to the last generation of time. Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest of Life By Lella Marler Hoggan Would’st hear the angel at thy door? Be still, little heart of mine.” Mable C. DeVona "Calmness is the rarest quality in life," says William George Jordan. "It is the poise of a great nature, in harmony with itself and its ideals." Calmness comes from within. The person whose life is in harmony with his ideals is at peace with himself and his Maker. He is not looking backward with regret on "the man he might have been." Nor is he looking forward with uncertainty and misgiving. Even in the midst of confusion he can retire into the quiet serenity of his heart's refuge. Great men have ever been men of calm courage and peaceful reserve. When Joseph Smith, the Prophet, was going back to Carthage to his doom, as he well knew, he said quietly, "I am going as a lamb to the slaughter, but I am as calm as a summer's morning." The great soul has his course 368 clearly marked out, and with confidence he travels straight to the goal. Delays may occur, obstacles may arise, temptation may confront him, but it matters not. Come hardship, come sorrow, for him there is no shifting of purpose, no turning back. He does not chafe under difficulties, he does not fear interruptions; for he knows that in God's own time and way, he will reach his destination, he will achieve that which he set out to accomplish. In these uncertain days of hurry and worry and economic distress we need, as we never needed before, a clear conscience and a calm spirit. From year to year the world is gaining speed in almost every line of endeavor. Weare hurrying through life so rapidly that we are missing many of the refining influences and cultural experiences that would enrich and beautify our lives. The days are crowded so full of the things we have to do, that little time is left for the things that we want to do; the little precious joys that our hearts are hungering for, the choice gifts that make life worth the quest. "Asa nation we lack the gracious sense of leisure," said Mable A. Hinkhouse recently. We push, and crowd, and worry, and fret, as if life were a game of chance and we had to make haste or lose our place and our portion. When strife and confusion are all about us, have we not learned to "sit tight," lest we rock the boat to its over turning? When our life's purposes are but vaguely outlined, have we not faith enough to leave it to God's gracious care, and trustfully wait for his just reward? How can we hope to find the balm that our sick souls need, when we go to the Great Physician carrying our prescription with us? Does not he know our needs better RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE than we? He said we should serve with an eye single to his glory, and yet when we reach up our hands in prayer, they are cluttered full of our own heart's wishes. Oh, we of little faith. Even a woman in the street in that long ago day, knew that but to touch the hem of His garment would make her whole. If we receive from life only as much as we pay for, then why all the hurry and worry? There is time for all of the really worth while things, if we but cultivate the wisdom of choosing prudently and then traveling straight to our course. Nature never hurries. She takes as much time as is necessary to do her work thoroughly, and to complete it fully. Slow, painstaking foundation work brings reliable results. Many of us are working to a program that is too crowded. It is for us to seek out the essentials, and eliminate the things of least value. "To learn to discard is a fine art," we are told. It may be we have no program at all. A lack of plan makes confusion. Charting our effort tends to hold things in place. Working to a clearly defined outline gives one greater security and does away with much hurry and worry. It is constant rushing from one service to another, from this obligation to that, that undoes our serenity, gives us a sense of incompetence, and leaves us at eventide with a heart full of care and a burden of unfinished things. And nothing detracts more from one's efficiency and peace of mind, than the accumulation of unfinished tasks. They make confusion in the soul as well as in the home. "The world is wide, in time and tide, And God is guide, Then do not hurry. KEEPSAKES FOR THE TREASURE CHEST OF LIFE 369 The man is blest who does his best And leaves the rest. Then do not worry." —Selected. EING continually hurried and worried, and keyed up to a high nervous tension, will eventually wear the nerves to tatters; then when some great emergency arises, one is unprepared to meet it. We either break under the strain or become petulant and bitter, and feel that the odds are against us in the game of life, that the Fates have been unfair. Like a tired child we want to strike back. But we should remember Frank Crane's wise suggestion, "Your enemy can answer every thing but silence." And that other sage, the one of long ago said, "A soft answer turneth away wrath: but grievous words stir up anger." We conserve our power if we keep calm as we go about the business of life. When we feel our self-control slipping from us, if we will relax and lower the voice, and attempt to give the situation a pleasant or even a mirthful turn, it is surprising how quickly we can regain our emotional balance. When life begins to hurry us into a dangerous speed limit, let us recall John Burrough's quiet philosophy: "I stay my haste, I make delays— For what avails this eager pace? I stand amid the eternal ways And what is mine shall know my face." We can not hope for the dove of peace to flutter down to our doorstep unless we lure him with crumbs of patient kindness. "Self-control is the very essence of character." "He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty; And he that ruleth his spirit, than he that taketh a city." —Proverbs 16:32. We readjust to peace and serenity more easily when we shut out the noise and confusion. In Walter Savage Landor's beautiful words. "A solitude is the audience chamber of God." H. A. Overstreet tells us that not only do we need parks and playgrounds, but we need "places of quiet retreat, of silence and solitude, where, defended against intrusion, we may recover peace and serenity." Every child should have, A little time, a little place, A little refuge all his own; Where he may rest his troubled heart, Where he may talk to God alone. And every mother should have a few quiet moments each glad morning to plan and think and set her soul in tune with the day's work, and in harmony with her Maker: that she shall be fortified against any emergency that may arise during the day. She also needs a few quiet moments at evening time that she and her family may wash out the losses and crosses of the day, and find the sweet, permanent joys that will carry over to a glad awakening, a happy beginning again, on the morrow. A psychologist has made the daring statement that as long as there is corporeal punishment in the home, we can not hope to establish universal peace. Parents of emotional stability usually have peaceful, well-ordered homes, where children are understood and guided into efforts of high endeavor. The self-controlled, self-disciplined child, stands a better chance of reaching maturity with a strong well-balanced personality, than does the wilful child who is ruled by his emotions rather than his judgment. Is it not possible to guide the child into paths of peace, that he shall be prepared to do his part in building a new world of love and freedom from strife? From the discord, and sorrow, and bloodshed of the past, can this new generation work out a code of understanding and good fellowship and brotherly love, that will insure the peace and happiness of generations yet to come? Can we bring our lives into accord with such a plan? When God completed his work of creation he rested on the following day and hallowed it. We still have that sacred Sabbath as our day of rest, a day in which we may rebuild our shattered nerves, regain our mental poise, and make ready for that longer day of peace. The millennium, like a star of hope, has shed its rays of promise down through the ages. The children of men look forward to the day when war shall cease and "swords shall be beaten into plowshares." Of that great day the poet Markham says, "It comes, the high inbrothering of men The new earth seen by John of Patmos. When the comrade dream was on his mighty heart." The Master stands out as the supreme example of peace and serenity.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
At his birth the angels heralded him as a messenger of peace and good will. From the manger to the cross his life was one of self-control and calm courage, even in the Garden of Gethsemane. He is still the Prince of Peace. His quiet power can calm the stress and anguish in our lives, even as it calmed the stormy Sea of Galilee. He greets us today with the same quiet salutation that he gave to his apostles after he had arisen from the tomb, "Peace be unto you." And the same farewell blessing that comforted and assured that little group of long ago, as they watched him ascend into heaven, still rests as a benediction on all who are ready to accept his Gospel of Peace and walk in its everlasting light. "Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid." (John 14:27.) Let us not surrender to the hopeless confusion of these unsettled times. The Master's promise has not been lost to us, as it has come down through the long years, that to know him and to walk in his path will bring that "peace that passeth understanding." It is one of the rare gifts we shall want to put by with our precious treasures.