THE BOOK OF MORMON TESTED 429
Then she said he looked at her in a most indignant manner, and as if he would liked to have said, "Don't you think it most unkind to take advantage of me in my helplessness by giving me that book?" However, he began reading the book and in time became very much interested. The reading of the Book of Mormon completed, she gave him the book of Doctrine and Covenants to read. At the conclusion of the reading of these two books, the young man was ready for baptism. He says that the Book of Mormon conveyed to him the truth of the Latter-day gospel. The resentment that he felt to the young woman for placing this book in his hands turned to admiration, which ripened into love. About one year and a half ago these young people were married in the Salt Lake Temple, much to the satisfaction and gratification, not only of themselves, but of a devoted family. The kodak pictures were taken of the Hill Cumorah on July 19, 1916. The persons appearing in the "snaps" are Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary; Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde, business manager of the Magczine; Mrs. Emma A. Empey, member of   THE GENERAL BUA MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - | Geaeuil "Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
CrarissA SMITH WILLIAMS Avice Louise REYNOLDS - President Editor - Associate Editor - - - Business Manager - - - JEANETTE A. Hype Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's THncilskiaes, Salt Lake City, Utah 
Vol. X SEPTEMBER, 1923 _ No. 9
The Book of Mormon as a Best Seller Thirty years ago the American public was astonished by the statement that a popular volume of fiction had sold at the rate of a quarter of million copies in three months. That sort of thing was new in America at that time. It has occurred somewhat frequently since. The last few years has probably witnessed the sale of a quarter of million copies of the Book of Mormon. The book is not yet in the class of the best sellers, but it is rapidly moving toward such a place. It does not seem to us extravagant in any way to suggest that during the next hundred years the Book of Mormon will become one of the best sellers among American 'books; indeed, it is not impossible that it may become the best seller. The Book of Mormon as a Literary Product It is difficult to call to mind a book that has been more frequently scoffed at than has the Book of Mormon by its wouldbe critics. Yet the standard history of American literature, the Cambridge History, has devoted considerable space to the book under the caption, "New Bibles". While the author of the chapter insists that the advent of the book was quite unnecessary, quoting "Mormon" authorities to the effect that it agrees in all essentials with the Bible, therefore, he argues, there is no excuse for its
EDITORIAL 433 existence; yet, so potent has the book become in the ninety-three years since its first publication, in 1830, that men of letters writing a history of the literature of the nation have been forced to include it, which means that University students, all over the land, will learn of the book as a literary product. The Scholar and the Book of Mormon The 21st of September of this year marks the centenary of the appearance of the Angel Moroni to the Prophet Joseph Smith; a visit which eventually resulted in the coming forth of the Book of Mormon. The first edition of the Book of Mormon was published in 1830. Since that time many persons have attempted to discredit the story of the Prophet Joseph concerning the: origin of the Book. These critics have been very numerous in college circles. Whether the critic has appeared within the confines of the college, among those who are classed as learned or among those classed as the unlearned, they are all in the same predicament. They deny the story of the origin of the book as set forth by Joseph Smith and the witnesses; yet they fail utterly to establish any other origin. With the attitude of many scholars in mind, we recall the admonition of an elderly gentleman who said to some people who were very greatly disturbed over what their opponents were saying about them, "Don't fear an opponent who changes front every day; it may be tremendously. Irritating, but it is an acknowledgment of the weakness of his position." This remark strikes home with singular force as it applies to the critics of the Book of Mormon. Within the decade an incredibly large number of theses have been written by graduate students in American Universities, on the Book of Mormon, most of them having as their objects, first, the refutation of the story as told by Joseph Smith and the witnesses of the Book of Mormon, while their second aim has been to establish the origin of the book. Many and most ingenious have been the theories presented. The confusion found in the ranks of the skeptical must give comfort to those who know that the Book of Mormon is of divine origin. This winter a story came to us from the University of California which is typical of attempts made by students in other colleges to explain the origin of the book. A _ student presented a thesis which, as usual, denied the story of the origin as maintained by the Latter-day Saints, and which also admitted that the idea that the book had any connection with the Solomon Spaulding Manuscripts had been exploded. The writer then proceeded to give Sidney Rigdon credit for the authorship of

 ' the book. Very likely he established the thesis to his own satis-. Faction. His argument may have been as the case required— reasonably exhaustive. At the close of the presentation, one of the Utah students asked the writer if he knew what Sidney Rigdon had said on this matter. He replied, he did not. He was then informed that Sidney Rigdon's testimony was to the effect that he became converted to the faith of the Latter-day Saints through reading the Book of Mormon. What has the next century in store for us? Will students in our colleges and universities continue a work which has proved so futile in the past, or will they read the book in a spirit of truth-seeking and be converted to the fact that neither Joseph Smith or any other man of modern times is responsible for the origin of this book, but that it is what it purports to be—a story of the ancient inhabitants of this continent and God's dealing with them, even as the Jewish scripure is the story of the Israelitish people, and the dealing of the Lord with them? Tapestries Grace Ingles Frost As to and fro my needle flies, A canvas close to weave With sheen of threads that harmonize, My mind does oft achieve The art more radiant in hue, For it weaves tapestries of you. No flower that ever blooms to fade, Can vie with colors that are laid Across the fibres of my heart, With rhythmic touch and blend, And when complete in every part, I view my work, O Friend! Fain would I find a thread more true, To weave my tapestries of you. The Scenic West and Its Natural Resources It is said that the Swiss people were oblivious to the beauty of their country until the tourist went in and discovered the beauty for them. It seems rather certain that the people of southern Utah in the region of Zion's Canyon, Bryce Canyon and Cedar Breaks have not appreciated in full the beauty of that region, and that history is daily repeating itself, in that people are constantly going into that country who are loud in their praises of the beauty of color and form found in these lovely canyons of southern Utah and northern Arizona, including, of course, the Grand Canyon of Colorado and the Kaibab Forest. We are personally acquainted with a physician now practicing in one of the cities of northern Utah who, as a boy, herded cows in and around Bryce Canyon, who never dreamed that there was anything superior about it. It is said of the man after whom the canyon is named that he suggested that it might be very beautiful to look at, but that it was most inconvenient to herd cows in as they usually succeeded in getting lost. Other expressions similar to this might be quoted were it necessary to support the idea that the growth of appreciation for the natural beauty of these places has developed rather slowly. At this writing we have in our state Dr. Cowles, a plant ecologist, from the University of Chicago, who is giving a course in the summer school being conducted at Aspen Grove in Provo Canyon. Dr. Cowles is widely traveled, both in the United States and in Europe. He has been this summer to Zion, Bryce and Cedar Breaks, and the Grand Canyon of Colorado and the famous Kaibab Forest. In speaking to Mr. E. S. Hinckley, who is especially interested at the present time in making manifest to people some of the beauties of this western country, he said, "You people don't advertise your state enough. So far as I am personally concerned, I should put the scenery of southern' Utah, including the Grand Canyon of Colorado and the Kaibab Forest, ahead of anything for scenic beauty I have yet noted." Evidence is not lacking that this country is coming to its own, so far as its natural beauty is concerned. The press of the East has been more generous than usual, in playing up the scenic beauty of Utah, and the recent visit of the late President Harding to the south has drawn the attention of people all over the country to some of the wonder spots of the West. Of course the automobile, the railroads, and the splendid roads that have

 been built through the state and into the canyon, must not be ignored as they are important factors in drawing to the attention of people the beauties so long hidden in the mountain fastnesses in remote parts of the state. ~~ What is true of the south is true in very large measure of all the state. There is not the superb coloring in many of the canyons of the north that is found in these canyons of the south, but there are always other features to commend them, such as beautiful trees, flowers of many hues, and attractive waterfalls. In these particulars the canyons of the north resemble very much the mountainous country of S'witzerland. The canyons of Utah as a whole are a sesame of treasures that delight the eye and the heart of all who come in contact with them.. Not long ago, Mr. Paul L. Newmyer, in addressing a business group of Salt Lake City, featured the resources and beauties of Utah in the following items: Utah Has iron ore enough in one county to relay every mile of railroad in the United States and rebuild every steel structure in the country. Has salt enough, in one county alone, to supply the present population of the world with a quarter of a pound a day for over a hundred years. Has the largest open cut copper mine in the world, -and other copper properties not yet developed. Has the largest body of salt water in the world. Has the largest fresh water lake west of the Mississippi. Will raise enough fruit in 1923 to supply every person in the United States with a half-pound each. One county alone in Utah will this year ship 15,000 cars of fruits, vegetables and sugar. Zion National Park and Bryce Canyon are among the world's greatest scenic wonders. The State has already discovered more than 500,000,000 tons of coal, enough to supply the present population of the state for 50,000 years. Utah has black marble enough to build a column 1.7 feet thick from the earth to the moon. Has granite and sandstone enough to rebuild every structure in the United States and Europe, and that is of the finest quality. Has enough cement stone to build a highway from New York to San Francisco fifty feet wide and a foot thick.