[Literature: Oliver Goldsmith by Briant S. Jacobs]

Literature of England Lesson 15—Oliver Goldsmith Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday, April 17, 1951 HE need to look at a man's face in order to "know" either him or his works is a strong and natural one, but there is something of the mystical about it as well. In seeing an author's likeness, most of us like to flatter ourselves that in his features we can discern the qualities which characterize the most intimate self-revelation which, recorded in communicable form, has come to be known as literature. 'The process also works in reverse: oftentimes, while reading a passage which is so particularly immediate that it comes alive in our imagination suddenly, and without being summoned, the image of the author looms heavily across our subconscious mental screen, almost like Hamlet's ghost. Instantaneously, we relate the essence of the passage to the personal traits we like to see in his face and say within ourselves, "Yes, this indeed is his. I see it all, now, and all is one. His looks are of the same breed as his poetry. I like them both." When Sir Joshua Reynolds painted the portrait of his friend Oliver Goldsmith, he caught those qualities (or at least seemed to) which 58 made Goldsmith the most charming, graceful stylist of his century, and one of the most pleasant writers one will ever read. A full, high forehead, heavy eyebrows, large, alert eyes, a mouth delicately shaped, yet full, and rounded cheeks, still scarred by the pox which had dishgured him as a child and which made him resent his ugliness even as he did his poverty. "Here," we might say, "is a man neither cunning, aloof, nor profound. His eye seems poised between a wink and a perpetual twinkle.
From the side view portrait he might well turn to us full face, with warmth and cheer radiating toward us, unknown to him as we are.
Having just met him, nonetheless we feel him to be one of us.
Even as he seems to enjoy life, here is someone to enjoy.
Tell us more about him."
Whether such thoughts originate from the portrait alone, from his works alone, or from a combination of the two, is a mystery, but an unimportant one. The fact remains that such impressions arise, and pervade our acquaintance with every aspect of the man. But there is one other significant point in Reynolds' interpretation of Oliver Goldsmith that merits comment. In the portrait Goldsmith's left hand rests upon an open notebook; his right hand, holding a nibbed goose quill, is poised above the page, as if waiting for the proper phrasing to come before recording it.
While he did not find himself as a writer until he was nearly thirty years of age, Goldsmith for decades fought off starvation with his pen as his sole weapon.
During these desperate years of struggle he pro A Perry Picture Copyright 1909 OLIVER GOLDSMITH 1728-1774 duced a volume of work which even ° by his fellow hack writers would be considered vast. He contributed to at least ten different periodicals, and wrote, revised, translated, compiled, or supervised at least forty volumes of work, some of them as sizeable as his eight-volume History of the Earth and Animated Nature. Nor did he receive just pay for his labors, since he was helpless to prevent his work for periodicals from being pirated by other publications. As he once remarked, "If there be a pride in multiple editions, I have seen some of my labors sixteen times reprinted, and claimed by different parents as their own." We must also credit his achievement on a level higher than writing LESSON DEPARTMENT to keep from starving. Like Dryden, in the generation preceding, Goldsmith wrote and excelled in drama, poetry, and essay.
Goldsmith wrote as well the most popular novel of the century, The Vicar of Wakefield, which has also proved to be one of the best-known novels of the English people.
Judging by his versatile excellences in polite literature, we can see how far he rose above a lowly beginning and long years of wasted young manhood. Oliver Goldsmith was born in 1728 in rural Ireland, and though he left Ireland forever at twentythree, he always carried in his heart the warm Irish virtues; he was carefree, considerate, and willing to give his friends whatever he had. His kind uncle sent him to Trinity College in Dublin, but school work bored him.
After dunking a teacher in a well, Goldsmith impetuously sold his books and was ready to seek his fortune in America, but his uncle persuaded him to return to college. He finally managed to graduate at twenty-one, but he was near the bottom of his class.
Behind him he left a reputation for unpaid bills, and for selling his ballads for five shillings apiece, then sneaking out at night to hear them sung in the local taverns.
After college he enjoyed life and youth by staying for a time with various relatives, fishing and hunting in the countryside, playing his flute to the accompaniment of his cousin at the harpsichord, and enjoying the local tavern society.
When his application to take religious orders was denied, Goldsmith started for London to become a lawyer, but in Dublin he gambled away the fifty 59 pounds his uncle had given him and returned home.
Next his uncle financed him in his desire to become a doctor. He stayed in Edinburgh for a time, then Leyden, and finally walked throughout most of the countries of Europe on a grand tour of enjoyment and ease, paying his way by playing the flute and debating before learned groups. He returned penniless, and in rapid order was an apothecary's assistant, a school teacher, a poor man's physician, a printer's devil, and finally a hack writer in London's famous Grub Street. In 1760-1761
Goldsmith wrote his most important series of essays, which were collected the following year as The Citizen of the World: Or, Letters from a Chinese Philosopher Residing in London to His Friends in the East (text, pp. 1024- 1032). Here, as always in Goldsmith, we see him drawing almost entirely on personal experience for material; he appraised England with the traveler's eye which he had acquired during his European jaunt. Because of the intensifying interest in the Orient, he found it advantageous to make the narrator a Chinese. The Oriental viewpoint was also useful because Goldsmith wished to point out the foibles of England by showing how unreasonable they were, and the Chinese were noted for their cool wisdom and common sense. But it was not so much this device as it was his style which charmed his audience. These essays, written in the manner of Addison and Steele, are not only smooth and graceful; they are informal, and warm, flowing with the freshness of a personality who 60 writes for the joy of writing, just as he lived and laughed and sang for the joys of living happily. 'The charm of his style is unique, since it is the charm of Goldsmith himself, who was vivid, fluent, and always at his ease. 'The musical, flowing quality of his style is undeniable from the first sentence: May the wings of peace rest upon thy dwelling, and the shield of conscience preserve thee from vice and misery! (text, page 1025) These essays are satirical, but of a warmer, kindlier tone than we have studied earlier. After poking mild fun at the British for being such sea-dogs, he calls London gloomy, and describes "a great lazy puddle" which were her streets, her dingy architecture, and the unimaginative quality of her riches: "A man's riches may be seen in his eyes: if we judge of the English by this rule, there is not a poorer nation under the sun." Letter III praises reason, points that such variables as the definition of female beauty depends on the point of view, and chides the English gentleman and gentlewoman for the foolish fads they worship as aids to what they define as personal beauty. In Letter IV he finds the English proud, unwilling to be the first to speak, ignorant of the true meaning of liberty, far too willing to tell the King how the country should be run, and valuing esteem and _position more than love and social enjoyment of friends. Letter CVI satirizes the custom of honoring the dead by writing poetry which is mechanically written by the undertaker as a part of his service. 

The  following passage might well be autobiographical:... I am induced to pity the poet, whose trade is thus to make demigods and heroes for a dinner.
There is not in nature a more dismal figure than a. Man who sits down to premeditated flattery: every stanza he writes tacitly reproaches the meanness of his occupation, till, at last, his stupidity becomes more stupid, and his dullness more diminutive (text page 1030). His creation of Beau Tibbs (text, page 1031) is a masterful piece of writing. In less than a page and a half we come to know him intimately: his pretense at wealth while he is in want; his ability to lie so habitually that he cannot remember truth; his fawning agreement with whatever is said in order to please; his fundamental hypocrisy; and finally, the climax of all his previous small talk:. But dear Drybone, you are an honest creature, lend me half-a-crown for a minute or two, or so,_ just till—but hearkee, ask me for it the next time we meet, or it may be twenty to one but I forget to pay you (10, text, page 1032).
Herein is the very stuff of which we weak humans are made.
Soon after coming to London, Goldsmith became an intimate of Samuel Johnson, a great distinction for anyone. When Johnson founded his "Club" in 1764, "Goldy," was a charter member—"Goldy," whom everyone liked—even Boswell, who sometimes seemed slightly jealous of his wit and nearness to Johnson. It was Goldsmith who stood alone against the great roarings of Johnson, ignoring the condemnations and bluster as if he LESSON DEPARTMENT didn't know he was the object of the "Great Bears," attack, and soon they would once more be on the friendliest of terms. And it was Johnson who rescued "Goldy" from a landlady who had him arrested for not paying his rent by taking Goldsmith's novel to the printer and returning the sixty pounds to the author. It was in this novel, The Vicar of Wakefield, that Goldsmith immortalized his clergyman father as Dr. Primrose, the simple, kind, but impractical man who has stolen the hearts of generations of readers.
Later on, in 1771, Goldsmith achieved equal success on the stage when, in his She Stoops to Conquer (text, page 1039), he also used an actual incident from his own boyhood as the plot for this comedy, which still remains one of our best. But now we should consider his verse, particularly his best and most famous poem, The Deserted Village (text, page 1032), published in 1770.
Fight years earlier Goldsmith had published an essay, "The Revolution in Low Life," in which he stated the same convictions as those of his greatest poem.
England was rapidly being transformed from an agricultural nation into an industrial one, and in this transition the rights, and consequently the innocent happiness of the rural peasantry, were being harshly violated and finally made extinct. The Deserted Village appears on the surface to be a satire on the luxury-loving wealthy class and their callous destruction of entire villages in order to enlarge their estates and beautify them through extensive _ landscaping.
Elsewhere he had praised material 61 progress, nor does he oppose it now; he does oppose the insane love of luxury which sudden industrial and commercial wealth had brought to the upper classes. The poem consists of the poet's memories of his boyhood village of Auburn as now he pokes among the uncultivated wildernesses where once it stood.
Frequently he pauses in his bitter comparison between then and now to exclaim, O luxury, thou cursed by Heaven's decree How ill exchanged are things like these for thee! How do thy potions, with insidious joy, Diffuse their pleasures only to destroy! (385-388, text, page 1038) Actually, the poem achieves its universal appeal, not in condemning luxury, but in presenting, through selected detail and powerful sentiment, the bygone days of the pure rural virtues and the complementing joys of youth and old age living together.
Here we find the melancholy longing for the blissful yesterdays which was to play so strong a role in nineteenth-century Romanticism. Indeed, the range of sentimental appeal is so broad that almost everyone finds in the poem a description somewhat approximating his present frame of mind, whatever it might be. If the reader is young, he identifies himself with The bashful virgin's side-long looks of love. (29, text, page 1033) If he is old, he reads most carefully the following: I still had hopes, my latest hours to crown Amidst these humble bowers to lay me down; 62 To husband out life's taper at the close And keep the flame from wasting by repose. (85-89, text, page 1034) Should the reader be a mother, she sees herself as she.. » Kissed. Her thoughtless babes with many a tear And clasped them close in sorrow doubly dear. (381-382, text, page 1038) The father consoles his homeless wife in "silent manliness of grief," recalling that A time there was, ere England's griefs began, When every rood of ground maintained its man. Ww.
Best companions, health; And his best riches, ignorance of wealth. (57-61, text, page 1033) His innocence and Further to intensify each reader's identification with the glorious past, Goldsmith next describes the church, the school, and the tavern: Yes: let the rich deride, the proud disdain, These simple blessings of the lowly train; To me more dear, congenial to my heart, One native charm, than all the gloss of art. (251-254, text, page 1036) Spontaneous joys, where nature has its play, The soul adopts and owns their first-born sway; Lightly they frolic o'er the vacant mind, Unenvied, unmolested, unconfined: But the long pomp, the midnight masquerade, With all the freaks of wanton wealth arrayed, In these, ere triflers half their wish obtain, The toiling pleasure sickens into pain, And, e'en while fashion's brightest arts decoy,. The heart distrusting asks, if this be joy. (255-264, text, page 1036) 
Thus, in his flowing lines, Goldsmith described the warm humanity, the fruitful, carefree life of his boyhood in tones so rich with nostalgia and melancholy that the poem has come to be a minor English classic. His "Retaliation" (text, page 1039) reveals the convivial, hearty fun Goldsmith found in supping and talking with a group of the keen, accomplished men who above all else, were his friends. When David Garrick, the great actor, spontaneously composed the following epitaph for Goldsmith, Here lies Nolly Goldsmith, for shortness called Noll, Who wrote like an angel, but talked like poor Poll, he "retaliated" some weeks later with a friendly satirical sketch of each of his friends. While sometimes his tone bears a mild cutting edge, here predominantly is the sparkling wit and the joy that comes when "Good fellows get together." When Oliver Goldsmith died in his forty-sixth year, he took with him certain weaknesses which he never overcame. He spent far too much of his substance on elegant clothes; and was always giving far more than he should to his needy friends; consequently throughout his life, even when he made a good wage, he was so deeply in debt that at critical moments he had to leave town to escape his creditors. He was so engrossed with the joys of living that in many ways he was irresponsible. Yet beside his accomplishments such details hardly deserve mention. While he was not a great thinker, he was interested LESSON DEPARTMENT in ideas; in presenting his own to us he is never tedious nor depressing. Because of the charm of his personality and his style, his writings are pleasant and familiar. He enjoyed writing his views on a life which he found congenial and good; therefore we enjoy reading what was so happily penned. As Samuel Johnson said of him, "Let not his frailties be remembered; he was a very great man." 'The verdict of time has not proved Johnson wrong. 63
Questions for Discussion 1. Characterize Oliver Goldsmith: (a) as a man; (b) as a writer. 2. Was Goldsmith's youth entirely wasted? Discuss his early years as source material for his writings. 3. Discuss Goldsmith's literary _productiveness and versatility. 4. Why is Goldsmith's style so pleasant to read? 5. Why did Goldsmith write The Desetted Village? 6. If time permits, have several choice passages read from The Deserted Village. Social Sctence—The Progress of Man Part I—The Lesson of History Lesson 6—The Role of Ancient Israel Elder Archibald F. Bennett (Text: The Progress of Man, by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, chapter 10.) For Tuesday, April 24, 1951
Objective: To portray how Israel's mission, as the Lord's chosen people, was to preserve in the world the knowledge of God and the true gospel, and to exercise divine authority for the good of all mankind. The Call of Abraham GOME seventeen hundred years before the birth of our Savior there lived in Ur of the Chaldees a young man who found himself very much out of harmony with his surroundings. The city of Erech, or Ur, as it is called in the scriptures, was a place of considerable importance in the land of Chaldea, about two thousand years B. C. At the time of which we write it was under the dominion of Pharaoh, King of Egypt. The inhabitants of the land had turned from the worship of the true God to the worship of the gods of the heathen. Abraham writes of these times as follows: My fathers having turned from their righteousness, and from the holy commandments which the Lord their God had given unto them, unto the worshiping of the gods of the heathen, utterly refused to hearken to my voice; For their hearts were set to do evil, and were wholly turned to the god of Elkenah, and the god of Libnah, and the god of Mahmackrah, and the god of Korash, and the god of Pharoah, king of Egypt; Therefore they turned their hearts to the sacrifice of the heathen in offering up their children unto their dumb idols, and hearkened not unto my voice, but endeavored to take away my life by the hand of the priest of Elkenah. The priest of Elkenah was also the priest of Pharaoh (Pearl of Great Price, Abraham 1:5-7). 64
Now Abraham had refused to follow the teachings of his fathers for he had in his hands the records which had come down from the earliest fathers, containing the history of the patriarchs from the days of Adam to his own time, which the Lord had preserved in his hands. In this manner, and perhaps because Abraham had also listened to the teachings of Noah and Shem, he understood the truth. Under all these conditions, and finding opposition even in his own household, Abraham found it necessary to leave his place of residence. Abraham was a prayerful man, and it was in answer to his fervent prayer that the Lord spoke to him saying: "Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land that I will show thee" (Pearl of Great Price, Abraham 2:3). 'Therefore he left the land of Ur to go into the land of Canaan, taking with him his wife, his brother's son and his wife, and also his father who had consented to go because of the severity of the famine. The Lord's Covenant with Abraham For a time Abraham and his colony dwelt in a place they called Haran, presumably named after Abraham's brother who was the father of Lot. In the land of Haran the word of the Lord came to Abraham again:... Arise, and take Lot with thee; for I have purposed to take thee away out of Haran, and to make of thee a minister to bear my naine in a strange land which I will give unto thy seed after thee for an everlasting possession, when they hearken to my voice (Pearl of Great Price, Abraham 2:6). " 
Terah, the father of Abraham, found Haran a pleasant place and he remained there, having turned again to his idolatry. Abraham, in answer to this call of the Lord, journeyed on until he arrived in Canaan. Here Abraham manifested his faith and integrity before the Lord in his willingness to offer his dearest possession, his son Isaac, upon the altar of sacrifice, at the command of the Lord. 'Thus being proved and found not wanting, Abraham was greatly blessed. (See Abraham 2:8-11.) We have already mentioned the fact that the Lord would have gladly conferred the blessings of the gospel and the power of the Priesthood upon all peoples, if they would have received it, but in their failure he called Abraham and placed upon him this wonderful blessing, because of his faithfulness. 'This honor and blessing places Abraham as the father of all those who receive the gospel from his day to the end of time. No person can receive the gospel and the Priesthood without becoming of the seed of Abraham. The scattering of Israel, which came because of rebellion, the Lord turned into a blessing in behalf of other nations by infusing the blood of Abraham among other peoples. The House of Israel We are informed that there were certain intelligences who were entitled to come to the earth through a chosen lineage. 'These are the spirits who have belonged to the house of Israel and who were separated before the Lord divided the inheritances among the nations. (See Deut. 32:7-9; Acts 17:26.) LESSON DEPARTMENT The promised blessings given to Abraham have come down more particularly through the seed of Isaac and Jacob, son and grandson of Abraham, respectively. Jacob, son of Isaac, is spoken of as the founder of the house of Israel. His name was changed by divine edict from Jacob to Israel.
Jacob had four wives and twelve sons.
These twelve sons became the heads of the twelve tribes of Israel, with this exception: When Jacob went down into Egypt and found Joseph there, who had been sold by his brothers, he also found that Joseph had two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim. The Lord directed Jacob to adopt these two grandsons as his own. Jacob, by blessing and adoption, took these two sons of Joseph and numbered them with his own sons, saying that all the other children of Joseph should also be named after Ephraim and Manasseh and be numbered among the tribes issuing from these two sons. The choosing of these two grandsons to be the heads of tribes in Israel did not increase the number of tribes from twelve to fourteen, however. The Lord _ blessed Joseph with a double portion because of his faithfulness. He does not appear by name as a tribe, but is represented by his two sons. Later, when the children of Israel came out of Egypt, the Lord instructed Moses to take the males of the tribe of Levi and make them priests of the people. In this capacity, they were not to be numbered as a tribe, but were to be scattered among the people. We see, then, that the number of the tribes remained at twelve, two of the sons of Joseph replacing 65 two of the sons of Israel in the reckoning. The Day of Israel's Greatness It was decreed by the Almighty, according to the promise of Abraham, that the Israelites should remain in Egypt for a period.
During this time they were to grow into a mighty people. In keeping with this prediction Israel went down into Egypt and there remained four hundred years. In the fourth generation under Moses a great multitude of people came out of Egypt, for the time had come for them to possess their inheritance in the land of Canaan.
When they entered into the land to possess it, the Lord gave them definite and pointed instructions.
They were admonished and commanded to keep the statutes and judgments thus given unto them.
They were promised if they would do so that they would always possess the land in peace and safety, the land would produce in abundance, happiness and __ prosperity should follow them all their days; and they would have the constant companionship and blessings of righteous leaders, and the revelations of heaven.
Israel was duly warned that if the people rebelled against the Lord, and refused to accept his statutes and judgments, and to hearken to his prophets, that a curse would be placed upon the land. All kinds of trouble and sorrow would be meted out to them, and they would find themselves in bondage to other peoples. Nor was this all, it was predicted the time would come when they would be driven forth 66 from the land and scattered among all peoples.
From the days of Moses until the days of the prophet Samuel, Israel was governed by judges raised up from among the people. In the days of Samuel they demanded a king.
They desired to be ruled by a king as were the nations around them. So Israel was given a king. Saul, son of Kish, of the tribe of Benjamin, was chosen. His story is a sad one. In course of time Saul became arrogant, selfish, and cruel, and lost his kingdom. He was succeeded by David, son of Jesse, of the tribe of Judah.
Once again a righteous and goodly person was chosen, for David was a man of exceptional faith and great ability. Yet, even with David, power brought him to the verge of destruction.
Apostasy and Captivity Following the reign of the third king, Solomon, who was honored with the duty of building the temple, there came a division among the people. Ten of the twelve tribes rebelled, and set up another kingdom.
These two kingdoms existed side by side until about 730 B. C., when the ten tribes, known as the kingdom of Israel, were carried off captive into Assyria by Shalmaneser.
From that captivity they never returned to their own land, and are known as the Lost Tribes to this day. The Lord had set prophets among them, but their warnings were not heeded and the Lord fulfilled his promise made through Moses that they should be banished from the land. The other kingdom, comprising the tribes of Judah and Benjamin,  and known as the kingdom of Judah, remained in their inheritance until about the time that Lehi left Jerusalem, 600 sB. C. The people were inclined to repent more readily and therefore the Lord spared them a little longer than their kinsmen of the northern kingdom. Eventually, however, their iniquity brought this kingdom to its end.
They were carried off captive by Nebuchadnezzar in the reign of Zedekiah and planted in the land of Babylon. A State of Wicked Rebellion They remained in Babylon seventy years.
Then under the reign of the Persians, they were privileged to return. In the land of Babylon, under their suffering, they had lost their besetting sin, that of idol worship.
Again they built the temple.
Again a measure of prosperity came to them. And again their repentance did not last very long before once more they had fallen into grievous sin.
Much of this time was spent in spiritual darkness, and a portion of their subsequent history is recorded in the Apocrypha. When Christ came he found the Jews in a state of most wicked apostasy, perhaps such as had never been known among their people amidst their darkest hours of unbelief while governed by their kings.
When they cried out against the Son of God, who came to bring them the fulness of salvation, the anger of the AImighty was kindled against them, and they were persecuted, driven, and scattered, until they became a hiss and a byword among all nations.
LESSON DEPARTMENT A Day of Fulfillment Promised Today the words of the prophets are being fulfilled. Judah is being gathered. Jerusalem is being rebuilt and the Lord is preparing to redeem his ancient people. Eventually they will be sitting under their own vine and fig tree, enjoying the fulness of the gospel, and the blessings of the house of the Lord, in fulfillment of the words of Ezekiel: Moreover I will make a covenant of peace with them, it shall be an everlasting covenant with them: and I will place them, and multiply them, and will set my sanctuary in the midst of them for evermore (Ezekiel 37:26). Thoughts for Discussion 1. What was the distinctive mission of Israel in the world? 2. Why was Israel made a chosen nation so greatly blessed? 67 3. What is the chief lesson to be learned from the history of the house of Israel? 4. Are there evidences of progression and retrogression in the history of Israel? 5. Have a class member assigned to prepare and enumerate the essentials of the covenant the Lord made with Abraham and his posterity as to: a. Numbers b. Bearing the gospel to all nations c. The Priesthood d. Bringing blessings to all families of the earth e. Everlasting land inheritance. 6. Have parts of the covenants been fulfilled? If not, will they yet be? 7. Show how the dispersion of Israel has proved a blessing to the nations. 8. Will any of the covenants of the Lord with Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph and Ephraim fail to be fulfilled? (Compare Book of Mormon, Mormon 8:21-23; D. & C. 1:37-38; Genesis 28:13-14.) Nlustéc—Fundamentals of Musicianship CONDUCTING, SINGING, AND ACCOMPANYING 'For Music Department at Union Meeting) Textbook: Fundamentals of Conducting, by J. Spencer Cornwall.
Lesson 7—Theories Underlying Singing, Accompanying, and Conducting Florence J]. Madsen Objective: To focus attention on the importance of harmonious activity between singers, accompanist, and conductor. 1. Interpretation of Song Material (a) The duty of the interpreter of music is to bring out of a composition its full meaning and significance; to express beautifully and simply the intent of the composer. (b) In singing there are two mediums through which to work—the music and the text. The first consideration should be given to the text. The poem which, though lovely, might have lived only in the memories of the few, when united with a melody of sustaining tones, with repeated sentences, declamatory words, increasing volume and height, or diminishing power and range, evolves as a message of lasting worth and lives in the hearts of the many. 2. Theories Underlying Singing "|.. I will sing with the spirit, and I will sing with the understanding also" (St. Paul, I Cor. 14:15). 
68 
The following are a few basic theories that have been adopted by great singers: THREE PART "The training of the Voice to sing, without training the Singer's Mind, and the Singer's Body, is no training at all" ' ACRED SRSERBERS | (withrow).: "Every vocal tone is, in fact, a mental concept reproduced as voice by the Peete de. OF physical organs of voice-production, so that every vocal tone is, in its origin, a mental phenomenon" (Frane E. FOR | Miller, M. D.). "Sing as if the breath remained in Singing Mothers | ct2.'scst (on) ims continuing to take breath" (G. B. | Lamperti). ——a 1233 He That Keepeth Israel— He who knows how to Speak and Schloesser 0.022 15 to breathe, knows how to sing (Pacae8943
Hear My Prayer—James 15 chierotti ). I=312-05984
How Lovely Are Thy "When you can start your voice —_; = ep ea sesrsoeeear =16 with your mouth shut as well as you — RE ep ia er can with it open, you can sing. When sascael8942 I Will Thank Thee, O Lord— the voice retains the same hum-like _ ' Moir i, —aa - sound and feeling after the lips part, — eo ee as it has before they separate, you can —— lb Is Athirst for God— rE sing" (Lamperti). HE) co Oe es... EeCM650 O Day of Rest and Gladness Great singers have aE lied the the- —Schumann oe 15 ory that to sing correctly one must cssseee337 | a aaa ager. Stand erect, with the torso comfortably On (DNOAA)..-..---.- -- o.. @6221
Unto Thee I Lift Mine Eyes— expanded, and with weight of body on Beethoven 200.00 cece 16 the balls of the feet.