[Pioneer Wagon Wheels — Third Prize Poem by Ruth Horsley Chadwick]

Pioneer Wagon Wheels." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society general board since 1932, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second general president of Relief Society, a gifted poet and beloved leader. The contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing, and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society general board, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the general board. The general board also reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first  prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. There were one hundred eleven poems submitted in this year's contest, as compared with ninety-seven entered last year. Many of the poems submitted this year revealed beauty of thought, and nearly all of the subjects of the entries were based upon an interesting and significant theme. Sixteen states and the Dominion of Canada were represented in this year's contest, the largest number of entries coming from Utah, with seventeen from California, ten from Idaho, seven from Colorado, six from Arizona, four from Nevada, three from Massachusetts, two each from Florida, Washington, Oregon, Wyoming, and Canada. One entry each came from Texas, Wisconsin, Montana, Minnesota, and Connecticut. _ | One of the 1950 prize winners has received previous awards in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, and two new poets are represented. The general board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The general board wishes, also, to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prizewinning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the general board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, _together with photographs and _ biographical sketches of the prize-winning contestants, are published herewith. Prize -Winning Preis Glas Roxey Orie Wancdéal (nam Gerucst
ALICE MORREY BAILEY
First Prize Poem stots WLW e Alice Morrey Bailey She merely turned for one last, stolen look Before her woman's lingering mind forsook The home her hands had decked, her smile made sweet, The memories of her children in the street. A spirit, set on right, must keep front-face Forever rigid toward the chosen place And eyes firm-narrowed in the lane of duty. No wayside resting place and no lush beauty Should tempt the soul to longing, no lost Love or glory, and no treasure mete their cost In nostalgic indecision, not even pity For a wanton, doomed, and wicked city, Lest the will be drawn into the sucking blaze, Consumed to smoke and ash. The backward gaze Can bend desire, compel the step to halt, And slowly, slowly turn the heart to salt.  
12  JULIA M. NELSON Second Prize Poem Old Home Julia M. Nelson Come this way, it is softer even now To walk where he has labored with his plow Between these rows; how proudly tall they stand That once were saplings on the barren land. Not that way; tangled vines have overrun The garden path... She stood there in the sun To breathe the warming fragrance of her flowers; She bought their beauty with such precious hours! Step lightly, for the robins come each spring To rear their nestling brood beside the swing; They loved the laughing noise that children made. The silence has been long... They are afraid. Come softly through the door; the house is old, Love's fire is out, the sheltering walls are cold... The windows dark where shone a sacred light Of trust and harmony into the night. Pray humbly that the choice and fruitful years Upon this altar laid with joy... With tears May reach to heaven from this dead home, until It stands a city, set upon a hill! PRIZE-WINNING POEMS RUTH HORSLEY CHADWICK Third Prize Poem Pioneer Wagon WVheels Ruth H. Chadwick They screeched against the river's icy crust And groaned in protest to the freezing night; Behind, the inky skies were red with lust, A crimson emblem formed by fires of might. Through dust-green grasses, seared by summer's sun, They cut with steady unrelentless pace A double line of etching, slowly spun Across the lonesome prairie's swarthy face. They strained beneath perpetual wear and weight, Defying nature's cruel, untamed force Of ruthless weather spelling out their fate, And craggy mountain peaks that blocked their course. They built new worlds for men who would be free; Then on they rolled to their eternity. 13
Biographical Sketches of 6liza KR. Snow Poem Contest Winners Alice Morrey Bailey, musician, composer, sculptor, artist, and writer, is a remarkably gifted Latter-day Saint woman. Alice and her husband, DeWitt Bailey, have three children. Mrs. Bailey has served in all of the Church auxiliary organizations and is now organist in the Sunday School of the Eleventh Ward, Salt Lake City. The literary work of Mrs. Bailey has been recognized by many publications and has received awards in several contests. Readers of The Relief Society Magazine are familiar with Mrs. Bailey's poems, many of them frontispieces, and with her excellent short stories and serials which have appeared from time to time in the Magazine. Her story, "The Wilderness," placed first in the 1941
Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest, and "The Ring of Strength" placed second in 1945. In the 1948
Relief Society contests, Mrs. Bailey was awarded first prize in the short story and second prize in poetry. This is her first appearance as winner of the first prize in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. Vy tf @ Julia Mecham Nelson was born in Taber, Alberta, Canada. She married George A. Nelson and now lives on a ranch near Mountain View, Alberta. They have three daughters and two sons, the oldest is twelve years old and the youngest three and a half. Mrs. Nelson has contributed stories and poems to the Church magazines and has been represented in The Relief Society Magazine by several poems. This is her first appearance as a winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. Mrs. Nelson has always had a strong urge to write, she tells us. "I taught myself touch typing at home, about two months before my fourth child was born. I have often tried to give up writing, but I can't." Over a period of twenty-five years, Mrs. Nelson has served in all the auxiliary organizations of the Church. In October 1950 she was appointed president of the Mountain View Ward Relief Society. G@ Bf 8 #8
Ruth Horsley Chadwick was born in Brigham City, Utah, the daughter of May Mathias Horsley, and the late Ermest P. Horsley. She graduated from Box Elder High School and studied at the University of Utah and the Utah Agricultural College, graduating from the latter with a teaching major in English. Marriage cut short her teaching career after one year at Logan High School. She is the wife of LeRoi C. Chadwick. They have three children. Mrs. Chadwick is an active member of the League of Utah Writers, the Utah Poetry Society, and the National League of American Pen Women, of which she is now Utah State President. In January 1944, Mrs. Chadwick was called to the Brite general board, and soon after was appointed a member of the editorial staff of The Children's Friend. In that capacity, she spends most of her time editing and writing.