["Mirror, Mirror," by Mabel Jones Gabbott,]

Mirror Mabel Jones Gabbott I need no mirror on the wall To tell me I must mend my ways; My daughter, playing with her doll, Reflects each manner, tone, and phrase. LESSON Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 31—"The Long Night of Apostasy" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, by Elder James E. Talmage, chapter 40.) For Tuesday, April 3, 1951
Objective: To prove that there was an apostasy from the Primitive Church and that the Lord Jesus ceased to reveal himself to men for centuries. T is doubtful if there are any Christian churches that claim there was direct revelation from God after the apostles were taken from the earth until the year 1820. In fact, most of these churches insist that no new revelation has yet come. Indeed, they say it is not necessary; that the Bible is a sufficient guide.
This position is taken in the face of the plain declaration of the Bible: "Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but he revealeth his secret unto his servants the prophets" (Amos 3:7). "The passing of the apostles was followed by the rapid development of a universal apostasy as had been foreseen and predicted."
Both external and internal causes were back of this apostasy. 'The Church, from the beginning, met with opposition from both Jews and pagans. The severe and cruel persecution caused many to desert the cause.
This was true of many of the officers holding positions of responsibility in the Church. 'There were some whose zeal was stimulated, but many more could not endure and  fell away. The worst cause, however, was the internal dissension, division, and turning from the truth, all of which resulted in a complete apostasy. It has already been shown how bitter most of the Jews were and how relentlessly and cruelly they persecuted the members of the Church. The Romans soon joined in vigorous hostilities. 'These persecutions were general during Nero's reign and extended from about 64 A. D.
Until about 305 A. D., with only occasional respites.
History records the cruel, inhuman, and barbarous atrocities of that period. We do not have space for details.
Early in the fourth century, Constantine the Great became emperor. He made a complete change. He soon made Christianity the state religion within his empire. The church of that day, however, had been almost completely changed and bore little resemblance to the Church founded by the Savior and named for him.
There was only a crude outline of the original organization. 'The emperor had not been LESSON DEPARTMENT baptized, but he made himself the head of the church.
Paul said: "And no man taketh this honour unto himself, but he that is called of God, as was Aaron" (Heb. 5:4).
Church offices were more widely sought than either military or political positions. The bishop of Rome, without direct revelation, claimed supremacy over the other officers of the church, but when Constantine made Constantinople his capital, the bishop there claimed equal authority with the one at Rome. 'The dispute divided the church, a division which has continued to this day. As a result, we have the Roman Catholic and Greek Orthodox churches, both of which have been in existence since the fourth century, each claiming to be the church of God. The bishop of Rome assumed secular as well as spiritual powers, and in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, his authority was superior to kings and emperors. The spiritual powers claimed were even more audacious than the temporal powers. He pretended to forgive sins and remit penalties here and hereafter. He even sold the right to commit future sins in this life and extended forgiveness on earth and in heaven. Read Paul's prophecy of the powers that would be usurped (2
Thess. 2:3-4). (Isaiah 24:5) prophecied that the earth itself would be "defiled under the inhabitants thereof; because they have transgressed the laws, changed the ordinance, broken the everlasting covenant," which is the gospel of Jesus Christ. The apostate church changed the ordinance of baptism. The Holy Ghost can be 51 received only after proper water baptism by immersion and the laying on of hands by authorized servants of God. Therefore, the members lost the only means by which man can say that "Jesus is the Lord" (See I Cor. 12:3). Baptism, having been changed, lost all its symbolism and meaning. Instead of administering the sacrament of the Lord's supper as emblems of his broken body and spilt blood, they invented the doctrine of transubstantiation. (This false doctrine claimed that by priestly power the emblems of Christ's flesh and blood are transmuted into the actual flesh and blood of the Redeemer.) The practice of celibacy among the clergy was established. The people were penalized for reading the scriptures. In short, the church completely departed from the plan of life as taught by Jesus and substituted doctrines and practices wholly at variance with the simple gospel of the Lord. (See Crark, J. REUBEN, JR., On the Way to Immortality and Eternal Life; and Barker, JAMES L., Protestors of Christendom. ) The author of our text summarizes the important internal causes of the apostasy under the three following headings: (1) The corrupting of the simple doctrines of the gospel of Christ by admix. Ture with so-called philosophic systems. (2) Unauthorized additions to the prescribed rites of the Church and the introduction of vital alterations in essential ordinances. (3) Unauthorized changes in Church organization and government. The world commenced _ to emerge from the period known as the Dark Ages in the fifteenth century. The movement is known as 2 the Renaissance or Revival of Learning. Strong men arose in a determined effort to arouse the people from indolence and ignorance. We regard it as the work of God in preparation for the restoration of the gospel and the establishment of the true Church of Jesus Christ. With the intellectual awakening and material betterment, people began to protest and then revolt against the abuses of members of the clergy who represented the ecclesiastical authority of the Pope at Rome. 'There was revolt in France as early as the thirteenth century. Early in the fourteenth century, John Wickliffe of Oxford University in England tefused to comply with the order that the people should not study the scriptures, and he gave to the world a version of the Holy Bible in English. For this he suffered severe persecution and, after his death, officials of the Roman church had his body exhumed and burned and his ashes scattered to the wind. Many other similar instances occurred. In the year 1517
Martin Luther, a German monk, led a revolt in Middle Europe which resulted in the establishment of Protestant churches in many countries, known as the Reformation. 'These Protestants, however, soon became divided on church government and doctrine. There was no divine authority in any of them and consequently they could not properly be guided in the gospel of the Savior. The Roman church resorted to extreme cruelty in trying to crush the Protestant movement. The tor tures inflicted on those accused of heresy are beyond description and, perhaps, no good would come from a detailed recital. We are interested more in the churches that came into existence as a result of the Reformation instigated by Luther. We must bear in mind that many honest men and women were still trying to follow Christ and many gave their lives rather than to stultify themselves by denying that which they believed to be true. On the other hand, many wicked men used the "cloak of religion" to gain desired results. As an example, Henry VIII, King of England, in the early stages of Luther's movement, declared that he was a supporter of the Pope and was given the title of | "Defender of the Faith." A few years later, however, this king wanted to divorce his wife, Queen Catherine, in order that he might marry another. In 1534, the British Parliament passed an act declaring the nation free from all allegiance to the Pope. It also passed an act making the king the head of the Church of England. It cannot be denied that this church came into existence as the direct result of the "licentious amours of a debauched and infamous king" who provided his own clergy and proclaimed himself the head of spiritual as well as temporal matters. There was no divine commission, notwithstanding Paul affirms: "no man taketh this honour unto himself, but he that is called of God, as was Aaron" (Heb. 5:4), as stated above. Aaron was called by direct revelation. In Great Britain and in many other countries of Europe there . Liberties.
LESSON DEPARTMENT was bitter hatred and warfare between Catholics and Protestants. The latter, especially, went to excesses with their newly acquired "The mis-called Age of Reason, and the atheistical abominations culminating in the French Revolution stand as an ineftaceable testimony of what man may become when glorying in his denial of God." 'The world today is threatened again by forces that deny God and reject his love and mercy. Men, unauthorized of God, have organized literally hundreds _ of churches. 'These churches have been named for men or "from the circumstances of their origin'; some are known because of distinctive doctrines. It is significant and challenging that in the beginning of the year 1830 there was no church on the earth that bore the name of Jesus Christ.
Further there was only one church—the Catholic—that claimed authority to act for the Lord by succession, and none by direct revelation. If we are convinced that the original Church lost its authority through apostasy, then surely no - other church could claim the right to officiate in the laws and ordinances of the gospel until divine authority was again restored.
Many thoughtful men have admitted frankly the lack of divine authority in the world. It is worthy of note that the Church of England admits an awful state of apostasy in the "Homily Against Peril of Idolatry," published during the sixteenth century. Let us consider one sentence: So that laity unlearned, all ages, sects, and degrees of and clergy, learned and 33 men, women, and children of whole Christendom—an hornble and _ most dreadful thing to think—have been at once drowned in abominable idolatry; of all other vices most detested of God, and most damnable to man; and that by the space of eight hundred years ana more. So, we may conclude that God always gives to people "all that he seeth fit that they should have" (B. Of M, Alma 29:8). We may well add that he gives them all that they will receive.
During the period of the universal apostasy, the spirit of God strove with men and influenced them greatly. John, the apostle, and the three Nephites ministered somewhere on the face of the earth. No doubt during that time good men and women did the best they could in carrying out what they believed was the will of God; but the churches organized by human beings were without divine authority.
Only one church claimed a direct line of authority back to Jesus Christ and we have shown how that church completely lost its power through apostasy and _ sin.
This is all in accordance with the prophecies found in the Holy Bible.
Individual characters such as Columbus, Washington, the Pilgrim Fathers, and others too numerous to mention, were led by the inspiration of God to do great and marvelous things in preparation for the restoration of the gospel. We have direct revelation affirming that God raised up wise men to write the Constitution of the United States. He guided the founders of this great Government. But this inspiration and help from the Lord must not be mistaken for direct revelation given to 54 prophets and apostles who stand with power and authority at the head of the true Church of Jesus the Christ. "Through the operation of the genius of intelligence, which is the Spirit of Truth, the soul of the race had been undergoing a preparation," and, in 1820, the Eternal Father and Jesus our Lord came to earth and inaugurated the great dispensation of the fulness of times. 
Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. Enumerate the main causes which led to the apostasy. 2. What led to the division of the Roman and Greek Catholic churches? 3. Name some of the principles and ordinances of the true gospel which were changed during the apostasy. 4. What led to the establishment of the Church of England? 5. Discuss the Renaissance. Visiting Seacher ITlessages— Our Savior Speaks Lesson 15—"And Jesus Answering Saith Unto Them, Have Faith In God" (Mark 11:22). Mary Grant Judd For Tuesday, April 3, 1951
Objective: "ST'AITH," says President David O. McKay, "is an anchor to the soul of man which brings blessings and peace.". The trouble today is that modem man, in his self-sufficiency, depends upon his own strength, failing to even admit the need for the anchor of faith in God.
Indifference is one of the dangers that seriously threaten us.
When man finds the world in chaos, he fails to blame himself. And yet whose fault is it, if not his? Chase S. Osborn, one of America's hopeful philosophers, in a letter to a friend recently said: You ask when things are going to be better. I might retort by asking "what things?"
There is absolutely nothing wrong with the earth. The sun performs its functions. The earth is still in its orbit To point out that faith in God is fundamental to true success in life. And on its axis. The clouds move hither and thither as usual and drench the thirsty footstool. The soil has all the elements of nourishment that sustain human life and everything else that it ever had.
There is nothing wrong with the earth and with heaven, but somewhere between there has been a good deal of a mess.
What then is wrong? It must be man. As Shakespeare expressed it, "The fault... Is not in our stars, but in ourselves, that we are underlings." Charles A. Lindbergh, the first man to solo the Atlantic, recently called upon scientists "for a reorientation of our standards to place the character of man above the value of his products." It was a simple, childlike faith in God that was taught by the LESSON DEPARTMENT Christ. "Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you," he told his disciples (Matt. 7:7).
These promises our Savior is ready to make good in our day. But it must be realized that it will only be through our individual effort. The acquiring of faith is a personal thing. No one else can give it to us, although they may help in its attainment. It must come from 59 within as a result of a quickening of the spirit which produces an inner conviction.
Faith must come from the spiritual part of our beings. It is the eternal part of our natures that is nurtured when we increase our faith in God. Let us understand the importance of this admonition of Christ and make it active in our lives, "Have faith in God." Work ITleeting—The Art of Homemaking (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at