[Award Winners — Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest]
[Biographical  Sketches  of  tbliza  U\.  Snow 
LPoem  Looniest   VUinners 
Alice  Money  Bailey,  musician,  composer,  sculptor,  artist,  and  writer,  is  a 
remarkably  gifted  Latter-day  Saint  woman.  Alice  and  her  husband,  DeWitt 
Bailey,  have  three  children. 
Mrs.  Bailey  has  served  in  all  of  the  Church  auxiliary  organizations  and 
is  now  organist  in  the  Sunday  School  of  the  Eleventh  Ward,  Salt  Lake  City. 
The  literary  work  of  Mrs.  Bailey  has  been  recognized  by  many  publica- 
tions and  has  received  awards  in  several  contests. 
Readers  of  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  are  familiar  with  Mrs.  Bailey's 
poems,  many  of  them  frontispieces,  and  with  her  excellent  short  stories  and 
serials  which  have  appeared  from  time  to  time  in  the  Magazine.  Her  story, 
"The  Wilderness,"  placed  first  in  the  1941  Annual  Relief  Society  Short  Story 
Contest,  and  'The  Ring  of  Strength"  placed  second  in  1945.  In  the  1948 
Relief  Society  contests,  Mrs.  Bailey  was  awarded  first  prize  in  the  short  story 
and  second  prize  in  poetry.  This  is  her  first  appearance  as  winner  of  the  first 
prize  in  the  Eliza  R.  Snow  Poem  Contest. 
Julia  Mecham  Nelson  was  born  in  Taber,  Alberta,  Canada.  She  married 
George  A.  Nelson  and  now  lives  on  a  ranch  near  Mountain  View,  Alberta. 
They  have  three  daughters  and  two  sons,  the  oldest  is  twelve  years  old  and 
the  youngest  three  and  a  half. 
Mrs.  Nelson  has  contributed  stories  and  poems  to  the  Church  magazines 
and  has  been  represented  in  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  by  several  poems. 
This  is  her  first  appearance  as  a  winner  in  the  Eliza  R.  Snow  Poem  Contest. 
Mrs.  Nelson  has  always  had  a  strong  urge  to  write,  she  tells  us.  "I  taught  my- 
self touch  typing  at  home,  about  two  months  before  my  fourth  child  was  born. 
I  have  often  tried  to  give  up  writing,  but  I  can't." 
Over  a  period  of  twenty-five  years,  Mrs.  Nelson  has  served  in  all  the 
auxiliary  organizations  of  the  Church.  In  October  1950  she  was  appointed 
president  of  the  Mountain  View  Ward  Relief  Society. 
Ruth  HorsJey  Chadwick  was  born  in  Brigham  City,  Utah,  the  daughter  of 
May  Mathias  Horsley,  and  the  late  Ernest  P.  Horsley.  She  graduated  from 
Box  Elder  High  School  and  studied  at  the  University  of  Utah  and  the  Utah 
Agricultural  College,  graduating  from  the  latter  with  a  teaching  major  in 
English.  Marriage  cut  short  her  teaching  career  after  one  year  at  Logan  High 
School.    She  is  the  wife  of  LeRoi  C.  Chadwick.    They  have  three  children. 
Mrs.  Chadwick  is  an  active  member  of  the  League  of  Utah  Writers,  the 
Utah  Poetry  Society,  and  the  National  League  of  American  Pen  Women, 
of  which  she  is  now  Utah  State  President. 
In  January  1944,  Mrs.  Chadwick  was  called  to  the  Primary  general  board, 
and  soon  after  was  appointed  a  member  of  the  editorial  staff  of  The  Children  s 
Friend.  In  that  capacity,  she  spends  most  of  her  time  editing  and  writing. 
Page  14 

J^iward   vi/t tuners 
^rLnnuai  [Relief  Society  Short  Story  (contest 
npHE  Relief  Society  general  board 
is  pleased  to  announce  the 
award  winners  in  the  short  story 
contest  which  was  announced  in 
the  June  1950  issue  of  the  Magazine, 
and  which  closed  September  15, 
1950. 
The  first  prize  of  fifty  dollars  is 
awarded  to  Mirla  Greenwood 
Thayne,  Provo,  Utah,  for  her  story 
"But  Covet  Earnestly;' 
The  second  prize  of  forty  dollars 
is  awarded  to  Inez  Bagnell  of  Kam- 
as,  Utah,  for  her  story  "We'll  Al- 
ways Remember." 
The  third  prize  of  thirty  dollars 
is  awarded  to  Frances  Carter  Yost, 
Bancroft,  Idaho,  for  her  story  "She 
Shall  Have  Music." 
All  three  winners  in  this  year's 
short  story  contest  are  busy  mothers 
and  homemakers. 
This  contest,  first  conducted  by 
the  Relief  Society  general  board  in 
1941,  as  a  feature  of  the  Relief  So- 
ciety centennial  observance,  was 
made  an  annual  contest  in  1942. 
The  contest  is  open  only  to  Latter- 
day  Saint  women  who  have  had  at 
least  one  literary  composition  pub- 
lished or  accepted  for  publication 
by  a  periodical  of  recognized  merit. 
The  three  prize-winning  stories 
will  be  published  consecutively  in 
the  first  three  issues  of  the  Maga- 
zine for  1951. 
Thirty  eight  manuscripts  were 
submitted  in  the  contest  for  1950, 
as  compared  with  twenty-four  for 
last  year.    All  three  of  the  women 
receiving  awards  this  year  are  mak- 
ing their  first  appearance  as  winners 
in  the  Relief  Society  Short  Story 
Contest,  although  each  of  them  has 
previously  contributed  to  the  Maga- 
zine. Most  of  the  stories  entered  in 
this  contest  were  well-written,  many 
of  them  revealing  professional 
quality  in  organization  and  tech- 
nique. 
The  contest  was  initiated  to  en- 
courage Latter-day  Saint  women  to 
express  themselves  in  the  field  of 
fiction.  The  general  board  feels 
that  the  response  to  this  oppor- 
tunity will  continue  to  increase  the 
literary  quality  of  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine,  and  will  aid  the  women 
of  the  Church  in  the  development 
of  their  gifts  in  creative  writing. 
The  Relief  Society  Magazine  has 
subscribers  in  every  state  of  the 
Union,  and  in  many  foreign  coun- 
tries, thus  providing  a  varied  and 
interested  group  of  readers.  Writ- 
ers, recognizing  this  large  and  ap- 
preciative audience,  realize  the  im- 
portance of  entering  in  the  contest 
their  very  best  work. 
The  general  board  congratulates 
the  prize-winning  contestants,  and 
expresses  appreciation  to  all  those 
who  submitted  stories.  Sincere 
gratitude  is  extended  to  the  three 
judges  for  their  discernment  and 
skill  in  selecting  the  prize-winning 
stories.  The  general  board  also  ac- 
knowledges, with  appreciation,  the 
work  of  the  short  story  committee 
in  supervising  the  contest. 
Page  15 

M 
LPrtze  -  vl/t fining  Story 
Kjinnual  [Relief  Society  Snort  Story   (contest 
First  Prize  Story 
"But  Covet  Earnestly" 
Mirla  Greenwood  Thayne 
and  the  rhythmic  swish  of  the  swirl- 
ing dolly  often  set  her  to  singing. 
This  morning  there  was  no  sun 
in  Marcia's  heart.  Her  throat  was 
too  tight  for  singing.  She  worked 
mechanically,  her  lips  drawn  into  a 
thin  line. 
"Whatsa*  matter,  Mommy?" 
Young  Stephen  followed  her  from 
the  kitchen  to  the  screen  porch,  his 
brown  eyes  registering  concern.  "Is 
you  tired,  Mommy?" 
"Yes  Stephen,  a  little  tired," 
Marcia  answered  petulantly.  She 
brushed  a  damp  hand  across  her 
eyes  and  turned  her  head  quickly  to 
hide  the  signs  of  a  deluge  that  she 
knew  were  beginning  to  appear. 
"Run  in  the  front  room,  Stephie, 
pick  up  the  Sunday  paper  for  Moth- 
er, hustle  now!"  She  gathered  up 
a  basket  of  clothes  and  hurried  to 
the  line. 
Other  Mondays  Stephen  had  fol- 
lowed her  there.  They  had  chat- 
ted joyously  together,  about  the 
flowers,  the  tiny  red-winged  hum- 
ming birds  that  nested  in  Marcia's 
Dianthus.  Stephen  had  handed  her 
the  pins  while  her  deft  fingers  se- 
cured a  panorama  of  clothes  to  the 
line.  This  morning  she  could  not 
bear  his  questioning,  so  she  was  re- 
lieved to  hear  the  story  hour  com- 
ing over  the  morning  broadcast. 
Stephen  would  be  lost  in  fairyland 
for  a  while. 
MIRLA  GREENWOOD  THAYNE 
ONDAY  dawned  blue  for 
Marcia,  blue  as  indigo, 
though  the  sky  was  cloud- 
less, and  the  sun  rose  triumphantly 
over  the  rain-drenched  hills.  Marcia 
had  said  that  Monday  need  never 
be  blue.  Synonymous  with  the  first 
day  of  creation,  each  Monday  to 
Marcia  meant  a  new  beginning. 
She  invariably  arose  early  and  by 
the  time  old  Sol  made  his  singular 
appearance  her  washing  was  usually 
well  underway.  She  rather  liked  the 
clean  smell  of  suds  against  duds, 
Page  16
