[Polio Strikes Egonia]

Polio Strikes Again Information Compiled by The National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis olio struck again in 1950. For the third consecutive year, infantile paralysis went on a rampage across the nation, striking more than 30,000 men, women, and children.
Only once before—in 1949—had polio attacked with greater violence. The toll of that tragic year was still being counted as the fresh onslaught began.
Hospitals and clinics were still crowded with polio patients from previous epidemics who were depending upon MARCH OF DIMES aid for continuing treatment.
Polio played no favorites in ig50.
Every section of the country suffered heavy attacks. The last three years have been the three blackest polio years in the nation's history.
Cumulative incidence for this period reached the monstrous total of 100,000 cases—almost as many as the entire case load for the preceding ten years. Fortunately, wherever polio hit, a Chapter of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis was on the spot, ready to help the patient, his family, and the entire community, as necessary. The staggering blow of the 1950 epidemic was absorbed—the shock eased—by prompt and efficient use of MARCH OF DIMES funds. MARCH OF DIMES money paid hospital bills for thousands of families who could not meet the high cost of polio care unaided.
Four out of every five of the stricken needed—and received—financial assistance from the National Foundation and its chapters. MARCH OF DIMES money paid for nursing care, physical therapy, transportation, wheel chairs, braces, and crutches wherever necessary.
Help was given to all who needed it, without regard to age, race, creed, or color. MARCH OF DIMES money paid salaries, travel expenses and maintenance of more than 1,600 desperately needed nurses recruited for the National Foundation by the Red Cross for emergency service in highincidence areas in 37 states.
Other personnel furnished on the same basis included more than 100 physical therapists and approximately 120 nursing consultants. MARCH OF DIMES money shipped more than $1,000,000 worth of iron lungs, hot pack machines, and other vital equipment on spot notice from seven equipment depots strategically located throughout the Nation. Up to mid-October these depots had rushed into epidemic zones 521 respirators, 299 hot pack machines, more than 200 cribs and beds, and a heavy volume of miscellaneous hospital supplies and equipment. If polio strikes again in 1951, we must be prepared to strike back.
Epidemics cannot yet be prevented. We can no longer anticipate "light" polio years.
More people are being stricken, more patients need care, more money is needed than ever before. Your Chapter stands ready today to serve you when polio strikes. It will continue to serve as long as you give it your wholehearted support.
Please give generously to the 1951 MARCH OF DIMES. 
Hal Rumel  SOLITUDE AND SILENCE —~—_ She