[Sixty Years Ago]

Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, January 1, and January 15, 1891 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN OF ALL NATIONS" A HAPPY NEW YEAR: Here let us pause for one retrospective moment, and look back over the hills of the radiant past, and ask our own hearts some solemn ques- ' tions, which each one is best prepared to answer for himself.
What precious fruit have we garnered for the soul's heritage?
What evil have we overcome in our own erring natures, and what sacrifices have we made of self? If we have not been seeking wisdom from the living fountain of knowledge, it is a good time now to commence. The year is slipping fast away, soon the New Year will be upon us. It is an eve of sadness and yet of joy; there are many pleasant realisms, which fill the lap of life with blessings; and if there are some sorrows, some regrets, some human pain, let us acknowledge God in all things, and trustful in His providence, look into the bright new year with hopeful glance, never doubting His kind care and protection. Let it be one of the fresh, green places in our lives towards which, in after years, we may turn with a sense of infinite restfulness, a refuge of peace in moments of pain——Aunt Em. MEMORIA If only in my dreams I may behold thee, Still hath the day a goal; If only in my dreams I may enfold thee, Still hath the night a soul. Ten thousand blossoms earth's gay gardens cherish; One pale, pale rose is mine; Of frost or blight the rest may quickly perish, Not so that rose divine. —Florence Earle Coates HOME THOUGHTS: To make home a delightsome and an attractive place, does not depend upon a large, fine house, with plenty of costly furniture, and expensive surroundings, although these are very pleasing and attractive to the eye; but the true secrets and attributes of a happy home are not purchased with gold or silver, but are placed there by the hearts and the united efforts of the inmates of that dwelling.
What are riches compared with the love of sincere and honest hearts? It does not matter if the floor is bare, the rooms limited and the furniture unpainted, the home may be far more pleasant and enjoyable than the finest mansion that is without the peace and quietude of loving hearts. In a home where the Spirit of the Lord is an inmate, the husband and wife are each striving for the welfare of the other, and unitedly striving for the welfare of their children—M. E. H. DAVIS STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE: Bro. Wm. Muir, being called upon said, I feel to add my mite to your Conference, it really does me good to look at these aged sisters, I think they are the ones who stand at the helm—they are the ones who have rocked the cradle, and their course has been onward, and the Latterday Saints do not stop progressing. It is what we do we get credit for, and not what we leave undone. Pres. Z. D. H.
Young then addressed the meeting.... My heart aches for those who do not come to meeting, for we need the bread of life for our spirits. By and by, when pay day comes, those who do not attend to their duties will want just as much as those who do, but they will fall short—Phebe C. Sessions, Secretary  RS. BELLE S. SPAFFORD, general president of Relief Society, has been re-elected third vice-president of the National Council of Women in the United States. Mrs.
Spafford conducted two of the general sessions of the National Council convention held in New York City in October 1950, and presented the annual report of Relief Society. Mrs. Florence Jepperson Madsen, a member of the general board of Relief Society, accompanied Mrs.
Spafford to New York City and presented the annual report of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association. 'The members of the National Council were greatly interested in the outstanding activities of these two auxiliaries of the Church. "TON CARLO," the first performance of the Metropolitan Opera's 1950-51 season, heard over the air, was staged by Margaret Webster, a famous figure in the theater of both Great Britain and America. Miss Webster has _ revived many classical plays, one notable example being The Trojan Women, which she directed and in which she played the leading role.
Included in the cast was Miss Webster's mother, the famous Dame May Whitty. Miss Webster has also directed her mother very successfully in plays in New York.