[Vol45 | September 1958 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Editorial | Author: Craford]
EDITORIAL m2 VOk, 


 NO. 9 Grandparents in the Family Pattern Thou shalt come to thy grave in a full age, like a shock of corn cometh in his season (Job 5:26). GRANDPARENTS by virtue of their years, their sacrifices, and their wisdom, have become a stabilizing influence in many family patterns. They are able to understand the problems and the yearnings of the age groups through which they have passed, and they can discern as the Bible says, "the end from the beginning." 'They have been disciplined and tempered, and they know the joy that may be found in the security and the spiritual unity of the family pattern. From life experiences grandparents have much to offer, and the older ones in their nearer approach to the eternities, have increased spiritual perceptions. They have learned to separate the lasting treasures of earth from its evanescent satisfactions. 7 Recently, two sisters, visiting the family homestead, stood on the rim of a desert hill and saw remnants of their grandmother's cabin, pieces of her stove, the frame of an old clock. They recalled the days when the grandmother was young and supported her family by wresting a living from the barren earth. The sisters had never known hunger for food, but sorrows and disappointments had tried their spirits. One of them found a battered tin plate and held it in her hand, and said, "There was courage on this hill and Page 596 that courage is in the line of our ancestry. It is the family pattern." A grandfather who had spent his life in labor and sacrifice and love for his family came near to the time of his farewell days. He thought of his sixteen-year-old granddaughter and wrote her a letter proffering a "Grandfather's Blessing." He spoke of the Bible as a guide, of the light of the gospel, of continuity of the family in the "mansions of eternity." The letter closed with a blessing: And in that future day, When my girl is a woman grown And the worries of life surround her, May Grandpa's prayers be known. With much to give of spiritual wealth, grandparents are a blessing to their posterity. It should be remembered that they also have needs —sometimes material needs — but always the need for companionship and love. In the gospel plan, it ls the responsibility of families to provide for their own in every possible way. A grandson took his aged grandfather to a store to buy him a new suit. The grandfather expressed his hesitancy in accepting such a gift and said that since this would probably be the only suit he would ever need, that it should be inexpensive, but the grandson said, "If this is to be your last suit, then it must be the finest one you have ever had." EDITORIAL If grandparents live separate from the young families, they need to be visited often, they need frequent expressions of concem for their welfare. They need to know that their long disciplined wisdom is valued in the family pattern. Particularly the elderly grandparents, as they approach the door to the next phase in their everlasting life, need to have 597 cause for rejoicing in the young representatives of their lineage who are continuing the family pattern. One gencration passcth away, and another gencration cometh.... So teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts to wisdom (Eccles. 1:4; Psalms 85:12). —V. P. C. <> Gn a Swin g Christie Lund Coles A woman swings beside her child In the pale autumn weather; Soft as tulle upon the land, Broken soon the tether That bound them through the summer days When swinging was light-hearted, When laughter shook delphinium bells, And birds had not departed, She leans her cheek against her hand, Listening to wild geese calling. The swinging slows beneath her foot, She sees the last leaf falling. -<_-o— Jo Mlozart Bernice Ames With the first clear note I am lost, bird-free, to harmony And wing the blue air In fluent phrases of flight. With your fragile sandpiper steps On the smooth drifted beach of sound Running toward coolness and shadow And back into light, You feather the moment. With your fingers pacing the deep base clef And your thoughts racing at treble pitch, You release a miracle of song Bright to the steady pulse of the evening, A moon-glistened branch for the spirit's return. Recipes Strom the West Spanish-American ITlisston Submitted by McNone N. Perry CuILes RELLENOS 12 green California chiles 7 tbs. Flour 6 eggs 1 tbs. Oil (or melted shortening ) 1 lb. Longhorn cheese Separate eggs. Beat whites till very stiff. Beat yolks till thick. Add 1 tbs. Oil to yolks. Fold into whites. Add 7 tbs. Flour and mix well. Salt to taste. Prepare chiles by roasting them on a hot griddle. Wrap in damp cloth and let steam for 10 minutes. Peel, using long strokes. Remove stems and seeds, cut pepper lengthwise. Fill with cheese. Dip in egg batter, using a large spoon, then drop into hot oil or fat and fry brown on both sides. Serve with sauce if desired. SALSA POR CHILES RELLENOS (Sauce for Chiles Rellenos) 4 tbs. Fat 3 tbs. Flour 1 c. Tomato sauce dash of garlic about 1 c. Of water _ Salt and pepper 1 small onion Melt fat, add onions, and cook. Add flour and brown slightly. Add tomato sauce and water. Add dash of garlic, salt and pepper to taste. Pour sauce over stuffed chiles when ready to serve. This sauce is delicious over fried eggs for breakfast, or eggs may be poached in this sauce. GUACAMOLE 1 large clove garlic 1 minced small onion 1 tsp. Fat "4 tsp. Pepper 2 green hot chiles that have been roasted and peeled. (See above recipe for roasting green chiles) Crush mixture with fork. Now add: 1 tbs. Lemon juice 1 tsp. Olive oil. Serve as a dip or with corn chips. CARNE DE PUERCO CON CHILE VERDE (Pork with Green Chile) 1 Ib. Pork steak (cut in 1 inch cubes) (which have been roasted and peeled. 3 tbs. Flour See above recipe. ) 3 long green chiles ' ¢. Whole tomatoes 2 large onions, minced Fry pork until slightly brown. Remove excessive fat. Add onions and cook. Add chiles which have been cut up. Add garlic and flour. Let flour brown slightly. Add tomatoes and enough water to make slightly thick gravy. Add salt and pepper to taste. Cover and let simmer for about 15 minutes. Serves about 4 or 5 persons. Page 598 RECIPES FROM THE WEST SPANISH-AMERICAN MISSION 599 Mexican Heart STEw 1 Ib. Beef heart 1% tsp. Salt 2 tbs. Oil or shortening 72 green pepper, cut in thin strips 1 can (10 ounce) Spanish Red Chili Sauce 1 c. Water % ¢. Sliced ripe olives wee c. All-purpose flour tsp. Pepper large onion, coarsely chopped c. Sliced celery can (8 ounce) tomato sauce small can whole kernel corm to 5 cups hot thick commeal mush ~~ oS ee Cut meat into 1-inch cubes and shake in a paper bag with salt, flour, and pepper. Brown meat slightly in oil, using a heavy kettle with a tight fitting cover. Add onion, green pepper, and celery and continue sautcing until meat is browned. Add chili and tomato sauce and water. Cover and simmer 1% hours or until meat is almost tender. Add corn and olives and continue cooking 30 minutes. To serve, spoon meat and sauce over hot cornmeal mush, SMOTHERED CHICKEN, MEXICAN STYLE (Chicken in zippy tomato sauce — real south of the border flavor!) 1 ready-to-cook frying chicken (3 Ibs.) /, tsp. Pepper cut into serving pieces "2 tsp. Thyme 1 tsp. Salt % c. Salad oil "4 tsp. Curry powder zippy (hot) tomato sauce % tsp. Chili powder Rub chicken pieces generously with combined seasonings. Brown over medium heat in salad oil. When nicely browned, spoon zippy tomato sauce over chicken. Cover and simmer for 35 to 45 minutes until chicken is tender. Mound chicken in center of warm platter.