[Vol45 | September 1958 | Sequence: 19 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
YOUR  QUEST  FOR  TRUTH  583 
has    revealed    it.      llie    spiritually  and  with  a  fixed  determination  un- 
reborn  do  not  have  their  acadeniie  ceasingly  to  pursue  the  goal  inspired 
freedom   restrieted   but   greatly  ex-  in  the  promise: 
tended  at  Brigham  Young  Univer- 
Qjj-y  He  that  kecpeth  his  commandments  re- 
TT      •         1        -J.!      .1        r     •.       £  cciveth  truth  and  lieht,  until  he  is  glorified 
Equipped   with    the   rruit    of   an  •     .    .i        ,  ,        ^.,     n  .,  •        n^  s  r^ 
1    .i  ^  1  1"  truth  and  knoweth  all  thmgs  (D  &  C 
education  on  this  campus,  you  grad-  0^:28). 
uates  should  continue  your  quest  for 
truth   with   the   certain   knowledge         That   you   may  eventually  reach 
that  ''the  spirit  of  truth  is  of  God,"  this  goal  is  my  humble  prayer. 
i/Lystic    Vlyord 
Eva  Wiiles  Wangsgaard 
Golden  is  a  mystic  word 
Calling  up  a  topaz  bird. 
The  molten  song  a  meadowlark 
Sings  to  dawn  with  skies  still  dark; 
A  daffodil,  a  marigold, 
The  midday  sun  the  cowslips  hold. 
An  apple  bite,  banana  husk, 
A  melon's  amber  smell  of  musk; 
The  golden  dust  a  bee  let  fall 
From  hollyhocks'  pink-rufTlcd  wall. 
Swept  away  by  the  wind's  thin  broom 
To  find  the  future's  infinite  bloom; 
The  li\ing  gold  forever  descending 
To  life  beginning  from  life  ending. 
i/iother-Ujy-cLove 
Maude  Rubin 
Oh,  she  knew  the  way  of  a  young  wife's  heart, 
And  gax'c  me  her  son  for  my  \ery  own — 
Aware  that  no  wife  could  take  that  part 
Of  this  lasting  love  that  was  hers  alone! 
She  lent  peace  and  strength  through  the  weary  length 
Of  slow-ticking  hours  one  fearful  night  .  .  . 
When  our  first-born's  breath  hoNcred  near  to  death; 
She  dried  my  tears  and  held  the  light. 
Let  no  knife-sharp  thrust  of  an  ancient  joke 
Leave  its  echoing  ring  of  laughter's  sound — 
For  she  was  a  friend  who  would  gi\e  or  lend 
A  wing  of  comfort  the  whole  year  round. 
No  phrase  like  mother-in-law  could  prove 
The  way  I  feel  toward  my  mother-by-love!

cJhe    vi/est  (bpanish-Kyimencan    1 1  iission 
Preston  R.  Nihley 
Assistant  Church  Historian 
"PvURING  the  first  week  of  November  1957,  the  First  Presidency  an- 
nounced that  a  new  mission  of  the  Church  had  been  formed,  to  be 
known  as  the  West  Spanish-American  Mission.  Los  Angeles  was  selected 
as  the  headquarters  of  the  new  mission,  and  Leland  M.  Perry  of  Provo, 
Utah,  was  chosen  as  the  first  president.  President  Perry  had  served  in 
many  positions  of  leadership  in  the  Church,  and  he  and  his  wife  were 
missionaries  in  Mexico  in  1925-27. 
The  territory  of  this  new  mission  includes  the  States  of  California  and 
Arizona  and  southeastern  Nevada. 
This  area  was  formerly  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Spanish-American 
Mission,  with  headquarters  in  San  Antonio,  Texas,  and  a  number  of 
branches  had  already  been  developed  among  Spanish-speaking  people.  It 
is  estimated  that  there  are  now  nearly  one  million  Spanish-speaking  peo- 
ple within  the  borders  of  the  new  mission. 
In  February  1958,  a  large,  hacienda-style  home,  on  the  corner  of 
Via  Corona  and  Sadler  Avenues,  East  Los  Angeles,  was  purchased  for 
a  mission  home.  Shortly  afterwards  President  and  Mrs.  Perry  arrived  at 
the  new  headquarters  after  spending  several  days  in  San  Antonio,  Texas, 
where  they  consulted  with  President  Harold  I.  Bowman  of  the  Spanish- 
American  Mission.  Transfer  of  missionaries,  mission  records,  and  opera- 
tion of  the  mission  were  discused  during  the  visit  in  Texas. 
rhutuaiaph   submitted  by  McNone  N.   Perry 
WEST  SPANISH-AMERICAN  MISSION  HOME 
East  Los  Angeles,  California 
Page  584