[Vol45 | September 1958 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: You Can | Author: Jennings]
(Continued on page 638) You Can Sew— VIL. Hlems Jean R. Jennings OW are you with hems? Are you discriminating in the way you hem your clothes, or do you just turn up the edges and sew them down on all garments, one just the same as the next? The right hem, beautifully done, is imporant to any garment, if you wish to achieve a custom-made look. All the care expended on the rest of the dress will be useless unless the hem is well hung. Hems vary in width and finish, depending on the fabric, style, and purpose of the article being made. It is important to learn the different hems, how to make them, and where to use them. Putting in the hem is the last step to be done in making a dress or other garment. Be sure that the s: irt hangs evenly from the waistline and that all seams are smoothly pressed. If any part of the skirt is on the bias grain, it should be allowed to hang for a day or two before the hem is measured. This lets the cloth stretch naturally and avoids sag later. If skirt seams are on the bias grain, it is wise to reinforce them with seam tape when they are sewed. This will keep them from stretching and sagging out of shape when worn. 'This precaution is especially important for back seams. When measuring the hem, it is wise to wear the type of foundation garment and shoes that you will later wear with the dress, since a variation in tightness or a change in the heel height will affect the skirt length. Page 604 Several types of pin and chalk markers are made for marking hems. With some of the chalk markers, it is possible to mark your own hemline. When your skirt is being marked, whether you do it yourself or someone does it for you, stand in a natural position with arms at sides and with feet parallel and close together. Keep the same position until the hem is completely marked. The fitter or marker should move around the hemline as it is being marked. Mark the line with pins or chalk every three or four inches. The following steps should be used in making all hems: 1. Turn up the hem on the line of the markings, matching center lines and seam lines on the hem to those on the garment. Baste % inch from the turning line, using 1-inch stitches. 2. Check the evenness and becomingness of the hemline by pinning the upper edge of the hem in place and trying on the garment. 3. Next, determine the depth of the hem according to the weight of the fabric and the style of the skirt. Dresses that are moderately flared and of medium weight look best with hems 2 or 3 inches deep. If the fabric is sheer and the skirt not very flared, a hem as deep as 4 inches is suitable; but hems wider than 2 inches are clumsy on heavy materials. 'The greater the circular flare in a skirt, the greater will be the fullness in the upper edge of the hem; therefore a hem of 1 to 1% inches is best on a very flared skirt. 4. Measure an even depth for the hem all around with a gauge or ruler. Cut off even. To ease out the fullness at the top on the hem, a row of machine stitching, placed % inch from the edge, YOU CAN SEW—VII. HEMS A SEAM CLIPPED ALONG A PLEAT THAT WOULD FALL WITHIN THE HEM TURN PUT POC FCFPRAIRCFRFILFS A SLIP-STITCH HEM WITH STITCHES CONCEALED UNDERNEATH THE EDGE may be used, or it may be pressed out in tiny pleats instead of gathering. Match the upper edge of the hem to the garment at each seam and the center of each gore. 605 At this point press the hem with paper inserted between the garment and the hem. Shrink out as much fullness as possible. The most generally used hem finish for skirts and dresses is seambinding because of its lack of bulk. But this finish is not always the best, and in some cases ls actually unsatisfactory. One should never use rayon seam binding on cotton materials that are to be laundered. 'This type of tape will dissolve under the heat of an iron warm enough to iron the cotton. For hems in most cotton dresses that are not very flared, simply turn and stitch the edge of the hem and then slip-stitch it to the dress. When there is much flare in the skirt and a binding is needed to help work out some of the fullness in the hem, use a thin cotton bias fold tape around the top. For medium light-weight woolens, silks, rayons, and nylons, use rayon seam binding as a hem finish. Before applying the binding, be sure to shrink out the fullness in the top of the hem by pressing, by taking small tucks in the edge, or by using a row of machine basting to draw up the extra material. Be sure the tape lies perfectly flat against the garment. When skirts are very flared, a smoother hem finish is had by shaping or curving the seam tape before stitching it onto the hem. Simply press it on the board with a warm iron, curving it as you press and it will easily take the shape of the skirt edge. Stitch the seam binding along the top of the hem so that the raw edge is concealed. Pin in place at the seams and the center of each gore, and slip-stitch to the garment. 606 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 To slip-stitch a hem in place, hold the hem back so that the under side of the turned edge stands slightly above the fold of the garment. Using a fine needle and single thread, catch a single yarn of the garment and a small stitch in the tape. Repeat every * inch. The long stitches or hem stitching when the garment is worn or laundered. On tailored skirts and jackets of heavier material, the hem will show less from the outside, if its edge is bound as you bind a seam. The underneath side is then slip-stitched into position by the above method. Thread floats will fall underneath the tape and thus be concealed from the outside. 'There will be little chance of catching or breaking the line of All hems are more serviceable if they are stitched in place by alipstitching that is concealed.