[Vol45 | September 1958 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Your | Author: Romney]
Your Quest for Truth Elder Marion G. Romney Of the Council of the Twelve (Baccalaureate Address at Brigham Young University, May 39, 1957) members of the Class of 1957. Especially do I congratulate you on your being graduates of this Church University. Here you have been free to search for knowledge in the ficlds of your choice. By divine injunction you have been encouraged to "seck learning by study and also by faith" concerning: I commend and congratulate you _., things both in heaven and in the earth, and under the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass; things which are at home, things which are abroad; the wars and the perplexities of the nations, and the judgments which are on the land; and a knowledge also of countries and of kingdoms (D & C 88:79). Surely yours has been a purposeful education. Your completion of the work required for graduation Is a monument of achievement in your quest for truth. Your industry and perseverance in pursuit of learning are im harmony with the best traditions of your people, who, from the beginning, have promoted and sustained education. For many years the Church was on the frontier where there were no schools other than its own. Beginning in 1831, when William W. Phelps was called by revelation to assist "... Oliver Cowdery to do the work of printing, and of selecting and writing books for schools... That little children also may receive instruction " (D&C 55:4), the Church embarked upon a program of elementary education. Even as books were being prepared, parents and guardians were urged not to wait, but to go forward with the teaching of their children. If children are to be brought up in the way they should go, to be good citizens here, and happy hereafter, they must be taught [said the Times and Seasons in January 1542]. It is idle to suppose that children will grow up good, while surrounded with wickedness, without cultivation. [t is folly to suppose that they can become learned without education. In order to do this as it should be, it is necessary that children should be taught in the rudiments of common learning out of the best books. As early as 1832, the saints were developing schools in far-off Missouri. According to the Kansas City Journal Post of March 4, 1923: The first school established within the present limits of Kansas City. -. Was founded by the Mormon Prophet, Joseph Smith, in 1832, in what now is 'Troost Park Lake, a site 12% miles west of Independence (BERRETT ANP Burton, Readings in L. D. S. Church History, I, page 224). Nor were their efforts confined to elementary education. "Kirtland High School is taught in the attic story" of the temple, noted the Prophet Joseph Smith in 1837. The school numbers from one hundred and thirty-five to one hundred and forty students, divided into three departments— the classic, where the languages only are taught; the English department, where mathematics, common arithmetic, geogPage 5/5 576 raphy, English grammar, writing, and reading are taught; and the juvenile department (D. H. C., II, page 474). In Illinois, the saints established the first municipal university in America. December 16, 1840, the legislature authorized the City Council of Nauvoo to:... Organize an institution of learning within the limits of the city, for the teaching of the Arts, Sciences and Learned Professions to be called the University of the City of Nauvoo. (Brennron, M. Lynn: Mormonism and Education, page 22). IVE years later they were on the move across Iowa in the great trek to the West. 'The University, by this time, had:. A small, but excellent faculty, and did some good class work in several departments. Text books were adopted for the elementary schools, and provisions were made for the certification of teachers (Ibid., page 36). Among the treasured belongings rescued (by the saints) in their hurried flight from Nauvoo were books and during the dreary march to the Basin, schools were maintained for the children. Most of the instruction was given around the evening campfire at the end of the day's journey and on the Sabbath when the pilgrims rested from their travels (Ibid., page 37). They brought with them across the plains every available:... Treatise on education—every book, map, chart, or diagram... Every historical, mathematical, philosophical, geological, astronomical, scientific, practical treatise which they could find; and such printing or writing paper as was available to them. When they reached the Valleys of the Mountains, the next thing they did after putting in crops was to open schools for their children (Ibid., page 38). Time will not permit us to follow RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 the development of Church education in the West. Suffice it to say that it was carried forward here with the same vigor and interest as in the Fast. In 1850 the University of Utah had its beginnings in the University of Deseret, the first state university west of the Missouri River. The Church always has and does now encourage secular learning. We are proud of our over-all record therein and of individual members who have attained distinction in their chosen professions. We point with pride to Church members who have excelled in science, literature, and other fields. 'here is no limit to our search for truth. We seek everything "... Virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy..." (13th Article of Faith). The peculiar educational function of the Church, however, does not lie in the area of secular learning. By divine commission it lies in the field of religious education. 'The primary purpose for the learning which the Lord directed the saints to seek was clearly set forth in the dedicatory prayer of the Kirtland Temple as follows: And do thou grant, Holy Father, that all those who shall worship in this house may be taught words of wisdom out of the best books, and that they may seek learning even by study, and also by faith, as thou hast said (D & C 109:14). And to what purpos?.. That they may grow up in thee, and receive a fulness of the Holy Ghost, and be organized according to thy laws, and be prepared to obtain every needful thing (D & C 109:15). This prayer was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith by revelation. YOUR QUEST FOR TRUTH This quotation makes clear that in the Lord's view one's learning is complete only when he is guided by the Holy Spirit. Speaking to this point, the Prophet said: Man was created to dress the earth, and to cultivate his mind, and glorify God. It therefore cannot be amiss for us at this early period, to urge the disciples of our Lord, to study to show 'themselves approved in all things. For, when a disciple, educated, even as Paul at the feet of Gamaliel, is guided by the Holy Spirit, he not only edifies his fellow beings correctly, but he improves his faculties agreeable to the will of God (Puruuies, A. B.: The Restoration Movement and the Latter-day Saints, page 204, quoted in BERRETT AND Burton's Readings in L. D. S. Church History, I, page 220). E know that the truth of which Jesus spoke when he. Said, If ye continue in my word ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free" (John 8:31-32), is not to be had through the learning of the world alone. So far as history records, there never has been a time when secular learning was so far advanced and widespread as it is today, and yet we do not enjoy this freedom. On the contrary, it seems to be as elusive as it ever was. Discerning educators themselves are pointing out this unhappy fact. Although they have not found the key to the truth of which Jesus spoke, they are calling attention to the need for its guiding and sustaining power. Because we spend so much time in American higher education on_ science, and so little time on religion [says John T. Wahlquist, President of San Jose State College,I most students must conclude that science is the most important form of knowledge and that religion is relative- 7 ly unimportant in life (A Matter of Emphasis, page 2). About two months ago the Boston Herald, under the caption: "Harvard Students Ask More Religion Courses," said: Students think about the most profound questions of their lives in religious symbols. Beyond doubt, their interest in religious issues is keen. 'To avoid discussing these things is to neglect a responsibility and an opportunity. President Sproul, of the University of California, only last month rated the spirit of man above the mind of man in its potential for good or evil. "Our commission," said he, "deals with the mind of man, which next to the spirit of man is the greatest of human potentials for good or for evil" (Sprout, RosERT G.: Western Regional Conference on Education Beyond the High School, April 10, 1957). Unless society can build an effective system of religious education to match its system of secular schools [said Dean Emeritus Athearn of Boston University], our nation will crumble just as certainly as did Greece and Rome, and for the same reason (Ibid., page 3). Now these educators speak truth in their conclusions that secular education alone is inadequate to deal with the problems of our society. They also speak truth when they conclude that the solution to these problems is to be found in religious education. 'Their conclusions, however, do not solve the problems, nor do they offer any program, either of substance or procedure, which will solve them. What we must learn which they do not teach is that truth which Jesus said will make us free. 578 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 O attain this truth we must draw upon a source of knowledge which lies above and beyond the reach of ordinary learning processes. Now I know, as you do, that our possession of any such knowledge is frequently denied. Some months ago I listened to a learned lecturer discuss the question, "Is religious knowledge possible?" We must conclude [he summarized].. That we do not possess any religious knowledge, [that is] knowledge which concerns specifically religious matters and which is neither identical with any scientific knowledge nor included within the scope of any science ("Great Issues," Forum Series, Series 2: Religion, pp. 4, 13). We here at Brigham Young, however, are not deceived by such benighted conclusions. 'They but remind us of the significant saying of Jesus, "The light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehendeth it not " (D&C 88:49). They recall the Savior's interview with Nicodemus, the learned member of the Jewish Sanhedrin who, you will remember, came to Jesus by night with the implied purpose of learning from him his identity and _ his message.. Rabbi [he said], we know that thou art a teacher come from God: for no man can do these miracles that thou doest, except God be with him (John 3:2). In this statement Nicodemus unwittingly but clearly revealed the fact that he was spiritually dead; that he could not discern the divinity of Jesus. All he could see in the Son of God was a superior teacher. This was, of course, entirely consistent with his statement that he based his conclusion upon what he had seen and heard of the Master's miracles. Jesus promptly informed him that the knowledge he sought was not to be had on such evidence alone; that without the aid of a superior learning process, a process sensitive to the infinite world of reality above and beyond the world of