[Vol45 | September 1958 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Lesson | Title: 629 Social Science — No Lesson Outlined]
social and political revolution. In almost every department of our society laws and practices are being proposed daily and adopted which greatly alter the course of our lives. Indeed, some of them are literally shaking the foundations of our political and social institutions. If you would know truth from error in this bitterly contested arena, apply Mormon's test to these innovations. Do _ they facilitate or restrict the exercise of man's divine endowment of free agency? 'Tested by this standard, most of them will fall quickly into 581 their proper category as between good and evil. NHERENT in the law of free agency is the principle of accountability. "The scriptures affirm that in their exercise of free agency, men judge themselves and that they will be held accountable for their choices, for "... Whosoever will not come the same is not compelled to come," says Alma, "but in the last day it shall be restored unto him according to his deeds" (Alma 42:27). Recently, I heard a sociologist explain to a gathering of young people that society and not the individual is responsible for his misconduct. How does this concept stand up when tested by the revealed principle of accountability '. Nat men will be punished for their own sins, and not for Adam's transgression" (2d Article of Faith), and that every man, in the day of judgment, will "... Be accountable for his own sins " (D & C 101:78). For our concluding illustration, let us turn to that perennial problem, "the origin of man." At the very heart of revealed truth is the doctrine that Jesus atoned for the "Fall of Adam." The immediate result of the fall [as taught by revealed truth] was the substitution of mortality, with all its attendant frailties, for the vigor of [Adam's] the primeval deathless state (TALMAGE, James E.: Articles of Faith, page 67). This doctrine that Adam lived in a deathless state before ''the fall" persuadeth to believe in Christ and his atonement. 'Therefore, according to Mormon, it is of God—that is, it is truth. I suggest that in your search for 582 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 knowledge, you examine the conclusions of science as to the origin of man to see, if in harmony with God's revealed truth, they account for this deathless state. If not, then they do not persuade to believe in Christ, and therefore, according to Mormon, are not of God. In your quest for truth, you will do well to apply this test in other fields. Should you, in doing so, discover conflicts between revealed truth and men's conclusions, you need not be too concerned about reconciling these conflicts. 'Truth and error cannot be reconciled. All you need to do is distinguish between them, accept the truth and forsake the error. 'That is what the Lord has always done. In fact, his ability to do so is, as we have seen, inherent in the intelligence which is his glory. 'The error of Lucifer and the truth of Jesus could not be reconciled even in heaven. Error had to be cast out. Jesus spoke with finality on this matter when he said: No man can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon (Mt. 6:24). This is just as true in the realms of thought and faith as it is in the fields of action. Should conflicts in fact, or seemingly, arise between revealed truth and the conclusions drawn by men in their search for that knowledge which is truth, the safe course is always to accept, hold fast to, and rely upon the word of God. When all the facts are in, science will come to that truth which God already knows and which he speaks in his revelations to men. HE unique commission of your Alma Mater, the Brigham Young University, has always been and now is threefold. First, to help you recognize that there are two sources of learning, one divine, the other human; second, to urge and inspire you students to drink deeply from both sources; and third, to teach and train you correctly to distinguish between the learning of the world and revealed truth that you may not be deceived in your search. This unique commission puts peculiar responsibility upon both