[Vol52 | September 1965 | Page 708 | Home | Work Meeting — Good Communication Is Essential to Happiness Winnifred | C. Jardine]
WORK MEETING Molding a Happy Life Winnifred C. Jardine (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Good Communication Is Essential to Happiness For Second Meeting, December 1965 Objective: To discuss the need of improving one's power of expression as an asset to happiness. It is important for mothers to making room for seeds of happitake a "little walk around themness to flourish. Selves," to hear themselves as others hear them. 1. Poor Grammar Today, let's talk about ten hobOf all people, Latter-day Saints goblins of speech that, in spite of I should make an effort to improve us, seem to creep into our lives. Their speech grammatically, espeBy recognizing them, we can percially because we are a "speaking sist in efforts to weed them out, people." Incorrect grammatical 708 — expressions used within the home become such a deep part of the children's speech that it is almost impossible for English teachers to correct them. Three commonly used errors in grammar are: I seen (saw) You was (were) It don't (doesn't) 2. Slang Expressions Latter-day Saints should never swear nor use vulgar language and should be careful in the use of slang expressions, for they are crutches for a crippled vocabulary. 3. Loud Talking A sage bit of advice for family members is this: Speak not loudly to each other unless the house is on fire. Soft, gentle tones are always appropriate, and if they are used by parents in the home, like bread cast upon the water, they will come back to them. Family members should resist the temptation to shout from room to room; if something is worth saying, it is worth the short walk. Brigham Young, who recognized the unladylike quality of shouting, installed in his home in the early days, tubes from floor to floor for communication purposes. As for shouting in anger, he quoted from scripture: "A soft answer turneth away wrath: but grievous words stir up anger" (Proverbs 15:1). 4. Nagging This is an ugly-sounding word with an ugly meaning. Irritation by persistent scolding and urging can dampen happiness in any home. Repeating things over and over is a bad habit. If a thing is LESSON DEPARTMENT said once or twice and must be adhered to, then action should follow. Otherwise, let the matter drop. I 5. Interrupting This practice can_ spread through a family like wildfire and should be stamped out before it gets out of control. From infancy, children should be taught to refrain from interrupting a conversation, and the best teacher is example. Not only does this mean interrupting a conversation within the room or on the phone, but also interrupting one who is studying or reading. Let adults always remember, too, that to talk while entering a room or a group may not only be interrupting but destroy the spirit of communion that may exist. 6. Quarreling This matter slips into homes unbidden, and parents can be drawn into it almost without realizing it. Brigham Young said: "TI will give you a few words that you may have children that are not quarrelsome. Always be good-natured yourselves. Never allow yourselves to become out of temper."' A good antidote for quarreling is putting children to work. 7. Hurtful Retorts Mothers should exercise every power to keep hurtful words from passing between members of the family. Each time these words slip out, they make it easier the next time, and once they are said, they can never be retracted and permanent damage may result. One of President McKay's most persistent messages to members of the Church is the need for 


 courtesy and consideration in the home. Hurtful words are darts thrown by Satan to destroy the sanctity of the home, and_parents should avoid the use of them. 8. Gossiping If they are engaged as they should be, Latter-day Saints would not have free time for gossiping. In fact, if they are in the right spirit, they would refrain from speaking unkindly about anyone. I "Nay, speak no ill; a kindly word can never leave a sting behind; and, oh, to breathe each tale we've heard is far beneath a _ noble mong." I 9. Criticism Criticism, unless it is constructive, is eroding, wearing away at the character of the innocent, but even more at the one who criticizes. Let words of criticism never escape our lips, for once they do, more surely will follow. 10. Talking Too Much In the busyness and fullness of a mother's day, it is a temptation indeed to talk as hard and fast as she works. Happiness within a home often results from simple silence. "The factor of omission 'is often important in human relations," wrote Alex Osborne of advertising fame (Your Creative Power, page 211). It is well to ask ourselves, '""What could be left unsaid?" To keep all of these dang in mind all the time is difficult. Why not try to work at it as Benjamin Franklin did with his Thirteen Virtues, concentrating on one virtue each week, but marking himself on all? The important thing is that we set good examples for our children. Like a mirror, our children reflect back to us exactly what we are. We will view the reflection with pride or shame, depending upon the example we set.