[Vol52 | September 1965 | Page 670 | Home | Promise of Spring Iruin | T. Nelson]
[Promise of Spring Iruin T. Nelson]
[PHOTOGRAPH]
[PHOTOGRAPH]
[PHOTOGRAPH: Garden display with potted plants]
[PHOTOGRAPH: Colorful flower garden display]
[PHOTOGRAPH: Garden landscape with flowering border]
[PHOTOGRAPH]
[PHOTOGRAPH]

Promise of Spring

Preparing for a Springtime Garden

Irvin T. Nelson

Director of Landscaping, Temple Square, Church Historic Sites, Foreign Temples, Mormon Pavilion, World's Fair

Member, White House Conference on National Beauty

Transparencies by the Author

■ A spring garden, like anything worthwhile, needs some forethought, intelligence, and a bit of work. For the experienced gardener and for the best results, the planning for next year's garden commences when this year's garden is in bloom. At that time a person can see the successes and failures and plan accordingly. Then, too, it is necessary to start early to get the plants ready. Even with bulbs, it is advisable to order in May or June, if one is to be sure of getting what he wants at good prices. Also, with other plants for a spring garden, it is necessary to get them underway before summer is too far advanced. For example, if you are going to use pansies or violas, which are generally next to bulbs, as the main feature of a spring garden, then the seed must be ordered and planted before mid-July. If you are going to use primroses in next year's garden, then you should start to divide the plants after they are through blooming. So it is usually good to plan about a year ahead.

However, if you are one who has not started until now, do not despair. If you take a few definite steps at once you can get along very well.

SELECTION OF PLANTS

You must first decide what you want in your spring garden. Usually bulbs of some sort are an immediate choice—hyacinths, tulips, daffodils, narcissi, and a score of others. If you are uncertain of what you really want, get some good bulb catalogues or books, or talk with some experienced gardeners for ideas. Visit nurseries or stores featuring bulbs as soon as they are on display. Here you can get ideas and, which is often important, find out how much various things are going to cost. Remember, for the small garden, great numbers of bulbs are not necessary. By proper selection of varieties and colors, and by wise grouping, you can get splendid results. I

670

PROMISE OF SPRING

remember several years ago when the bulb growers of Holland offered some very choice prizes, including some trips to Europe, for the best pictures showing the use of tulips. The picture which won first prize was of a single tulip. Beauty is not necessarily in great masses of color. Usually solid color give the best results. The good gardener seldom uses mixtures. The one exception to this is in the use of pansies, where mixed varieties will give the desired effect. Most seed growers are very careful in the selection of the seeds which make up their mixtures. Highly skilled workmen rogue out any colors in a given planting which do not harmonize with what they want for best effect. But even when using mixtures, some gardeners select colors which are alike and which harmonize, and place them together so, in effect, they are following the principle of using solid colors.

Of course, height of the plant is another thing which must be considered in your planting. If you do not know how high varieties grow, you can usually find out. As a general rule, the tall varieties will be placed in the back of a bed. But even in the bed as a whole some variation in height adds great interest.

There is not much difference in the texture of plants grown from bulbs, but, usually, in the shape and size of the flower there is a decided difference, so when plants are properly selected you get the pleasant feeling which comes from this important element in design.

PLANTING BULBS

All bulbs require soil reasonably well drained. Most any soil is good enough to grow bulbs the first year, if they have drainage. The ordinary bulb has sufficient food in it to produce a good blossom, so that feeding of the soil is not too necessary if other factors are satisfactory. Among these factors, in most places, is the proper application of water. When the bulbs are placed in the ground there must be a certain amount of moisture in the ground so that the roots can properly develop. You can plant tulips anytime from October to December. It is good to plant daffodils earlier in the season.

All during the fall and early winter months, the bulb is sending out roots so that the plant is ready to start in the spring. Therefore, keep the soil moist. Daffodils are especially responsive to the proper amount of moisture in the ground. In the springtime, however, is when you must be especially careful regarding moisture content of the ground. Make sure the plants have sufficient moisture all during the growing season. As soon as the buds start to show be especially diligent in the application of water. Here you must use good judgement because a heavy soil, of course, will require less water than a sandy soil. The blooming period of bulbs can be prolonged ten days to two weeks and sometimes longer by the proper application of water.

Tulips can ordinarily be left in the ground for three or four years or longer, depending on how long they continue to give satisfactory bloom. Be sure to remove the seed pods after blooming and let the

671

SEPTEMBER 1965

leaves die away naturally. After digging, some of the bulbs might be large enough to replant the following fall.

Hyacinths, which are usually planted six to eight inches deep, can remain in the ground for long periods and give good results—eight, ten, or twelve years. Daffodils can be left in the same place almost indefinitely. When put in the right place, they tend to naturalize themselves. I have seen them in woodland gardens for twenty-five years.

Some good varieties of tulips (among the thousands) which harmonize in color are: Pink—Eros (lovely double), Smiling Queen, Geo. H. Recks, Princess Elizabeth, Pride of Zwanenburg, Barbara Pratt; Yellows—Niphetos (lemon), Mother's Day, Mrs. Scheepers; White—Mt. Tacoma (double), Zwanenburg; Blue—The Bishop (still good); George Grappe (tall lavender).

GROWING PANSIES AND VIOLAS

It is generally difficult to get a wide selection of pansies on the market. Most growers have only mixed varieties. So some gardeners grow what they want. If you are going to grow your own plants, you must sow the seeds about the middle of July. The seed beds, which are usually shaded, must be carefully watched. After you have scattered the seed on the ground, we suggest that you cover it with sand. It isn't too difficult to keep the sand moist, and it is especially effective when the plants start to grow. Wilting off seldom occurs when the ground is covered with sand. When the seedlings have four leaves on them, they can be transferred to temporary bedding boxes and planted six inches apart. They can then be left in these beds until early spring when they should be transferred to the garden. In the fall, after the first heavy frost, it is a good thing to cover the seed beds with clean straw or salt hay. This will prevent the ground from alternately freezing and thawing, which tends to lift the plants out of the ground.

It requires some skill and care to grow pansies and violas from seed, but it is done by many gardeners and is a very rewarding experience after you learn how to do it.

Pansy seed can be obtained from most ordinary seed houses, but one of the best places for you to contact, I think, is Harold's Pansy Gardens, at Grants Pass, Oregon. These people prepare some instructions for amateurs which are very helpful in the growing of pansies and violas. So when you write for the catalogue be sure to ask for planting instructions.

Some choice pansies are (consult catalogues for colors) Lake of Zurich, Ullswater Blue, Beaconsfield, Heaven's Queen, Paydirt, Luna, Jungfrau, Raspberry Rose.

Among the best violas are: Jersey Gem, Blue Perfection, Chantryland, Papelco.

Remember in growing pansies and violas that they are very heavy feeders. They need plant food. If a little barnyard manure can be

(Continued on page 674)

672

[PHOTOGRAPH]

A Spring Promise Is Kept—Seven varieties of pansies and violas, five hyacinths, and a few rocks complement each other.

The Abundant Generosity of Spring in a Lovely Setting.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

[PHOTOGRAPH: Garden display with potted plants]

[PHOTOGRAPH: Colorful flower garden display]

Left: Shape, Texture, Color, and the Pleasure of Sunlight and Shadows at the Mormon Pavilion at the World's Fair. Right: Wallflowers and Forget-me-nots at the London Temple.

worked into the soil before you transfer the plants to the garden, the results are good. Feeding with commercial fertilizer, of course, gives splendid results, also. But in any case remember that these plants need to be properly fed.

FORGET-ME-NOTS AND WALLFLOWERS

Forget-me-nots can be a very important and pleasing plant in the garden and are used by many people. When once grown in places where there is shade, and where the ground is not disturbed too much, they seed themselves from year to year. There are pink varieties, as well as blue, which add to the interest.

Wallflowers, in different colors, are coming to be used more and more in the home garden, as is also the little English daisy. European gardeners get splendid results from these plants. Forget-me-nots and wallflowers can generally be obtained from any commercial grower; however, you can grow these also.

[PHOTOGRAPH: Garden landscape with flowering border]

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Reflected Glory—Love's Labor Not Lost

[PHOTOGRAPH]

◁ A Welcome Home
at the Feet of
"Singing Trees."

Reward
