[Vol52 | September 1965 | Page 687 | Home | Come for Breakfast Hazel | S. Cannon]
[Come for Breakfast Hazel S. Cannon]

Hazel S. Cannon why not set aside a "lazy" mornFormer Member, General ing to extend hospitality? Board of Relief Society This type of entertaining is fun Transparencies by Hal Rumel for the hostess as well as for the Adults' Table: Accessories, Carole 7.: E. Cannon guests, since the preparation lS Children's Table: Accessories, Jane essentially simple and informal. S. Tibbals and Doralee D. Madsen It is usually less expensive also. I;. CLOOGOGOOGOEEOEOOEOEEEEOO. Morning parties, however, can be pretty as you please, whimsical as you wish, and can call forth your most original ideas. Many doahead foods may be used (it is surprising how many partial food preparations can be made the day before); the table can be set and often the centerpiece arranged, leaving just last minute preparations for the morning of the breakfast. If the meal is held closer to lunchtime it becomes heartier, partakes of both breakfast and luncheon foods, and is called brunch. Late Summer Brunch Fresh Fruit Bowl Creamed Breast of Chicken Rice Ring or Jane's Elegant Rice Casserole Broccoli Parmesan Carrot Posies Celery Federal Heights Cinnamon Rolls Butter Apricot Marmalade COME FOR BREAKFAST There is no greater bargain for your morning meal than summer's bounty of luscious fruits, flavor-best vegetables, and lovely, home-grown flowers, Used for the above brunch is a basket of late summer garden roses in yellow tones on an inexpensive, striped India madras cloth. Danish china with a blue flower motif and bright blue glassware hold the brunch fare. Starchy vegetable will be ready for lusty appetites upon your return. For a nostalgic brunch fill] your house with the tantalizing fragrance of baking cinnamon rolls as your guests gather. "But," you protest, "hot bread for breakfast requires rising at dawn solution, and Federal Heights cinnamon rolis, mixed the evening before, are easy, delicate, light-hearted, and with a bit of jelly or preserve are a delectable finale to your brunch. A rule worth remembering is: "Make your guests wait for the hot bread, but never make the hot bread wait for the guests." CREAMED BREAST OF CHICKEN (Courtesy Helen L. Goates) 1 can cream of mushroom soup 1 tbsp. Lemon juice 4 c. Mayonnaise (scant) dash of garlic salt Y% c. Sour cream 3 chicken breasts, cut in halves % ec. Nippy cheese, grated Method: Wash and salt each one-half chicken breast. Line a 9" x 19" baking pan with metal foil, leaving ends long enough to cover pan. Place chicken in pan and bake in oven for about 114 hours or until tender. Cool and 689 COME FOR BREAKFAST fast. A manzanita branch is painted white, and artificial, shiny red apples are fastened to it. A slate nestles among the apples. Apple place mats of bright red terry cloth, machine finished around the edges and with snap-on felt stems and leaves, are a boon to busy mothers. They are so practical. Napkins are of the same matching fabric. The slate place cards, made of black construction paper and edged with large overcasting stitches of white yarn, are stuck in a schoolboy apple to be taken home. The menu is one which should please mothers and children alike. The blushing apples with gumdrop or mint leaves can be done the day before, bacon can be partially cooked and placed in the greased muffin tins, and the flannel pancake batter mixed. Flannel pancakes, leavened with yeast, are a scone-type griddlecake. Young fry dote on animal pancakes, and a little practice will enable you, as well as the children, to produce a whimsical facsimile of the real thing. Turtles, bunnies, cats, and gingerbread-shaped boys and girls are some of children's favorites. Honey-butter, two-thirds honey and one-third butter, beaten fluffy with an electric beater, is a taste-treat. HUMPTY DUMPTY IN A NEST Line bacon-greased muffin tins or ramekins with lean bacon which has been slightly pan broiled. Break an egg into saucer and slip into the center of each. Season with salt and pepper, if desired. Cover with 1 tablespoon sweet or sour cream, or a topping of grated cheese or buttered crumbs may be used. Bake in a 325 degree oven for about 15 or 20 minutes, or until eggs are set. Serve at once. FLANNEL PANCAKES (Turtles) 1 c. Milk, scalded 1 c. Lukewarm water 2 tbsp. Brown sugar 2 tbsp. Melted shortening 1 tsp. Salt _ 2 eggs, well beaten 1 cake compressed yeast or 1 pkg. Granular yeast 214, c. Sifted flour Method: Scald milk, add sugar and salt; cool to lukewarm. Dissolve yeast in lukewarm water and add to cooled milk. Add melted shon _-ning, well-beaten eggs, and flour. Beat thoroughly to make a smooth batter. Cover and let rise in warm place for about one hour. Stir well and bake on hot greased griddle. Makes about 18 turtle pancakes, depending on size. For overnight method: Use 1 tsp. Or 143 pkg. Granular yeast, or 14 cake of compressed yeast. Also use an additional 14 tsp. Salt. Cover and let stand overnight in a cool place. Do not place in refrigerator. Proceed as above. BLUSHING APPLES 6 medium-sized eating apples (hold shape better than cooking variety) 1 c. Sugar 2 tbsp. Lemon juice 3 c. Water 1/4, to %4 c. Red cinnamon candies, or red coloring may be used Method: Peel apples and remove core from each end with an apple corer. Make syrup of remaining ingredients, add apples, and cook until slightly transparent and tender, turning carefully to distribute color. Let stand in syrup until ready to serve. May be served as a fruit course, as part of the main course, as dessert with whipped cream, or stuffed as a salad. Makes 6 servings. Apples are very attractive also cut into rings. Those waning summer mornings are for remembering. Treat your friends or dear ones to a delicious breakfast or brunch.