[Vol52 | September 1965 | Page 685 | Home | Make a Drum Tree for Holidays | Florence C Williams]
Make a Drum Tree for Holidays Florence C. Williams Transparency by Hal Rumel A many-branched miniature tree, decorated with a half dozen or so drums, makes an attractive and unusual decorative feature for the hollidays—any holiday—Constitution Day in September, Columbus Day in October, Thanksgiving Day in November, the Christmas season, or into February for Lincoln's or Washington's birthday. For the summer season, a Fourth of July or a Pioneer Day occasion can be made colorful and festive with a drum tree. If you want the drum tree for a table centerpiece or for placing near the fireplace or on a mantel, it may be a small tree, but if you want to place it in the hall to speak a welcome to your guests, or if you wish the tree to brighten a corner of the family room or the living room, then it may be larger, such as an oak tree branch, an elm tree branch, or an apple tree branch of suitable shape and coloring. Cut the branch in length and shape to suit your purposes and place it in a can of sand to hold it upright and solid. If the color and texture of the wood are not particularly attractive, the branch may be sprayed with white enamel or gold paint, which will make a contrast with the red, white, and blue colors of the drum. The decorative drums may be made large or small to harmonize with the tree, and, if it is for a children's party or a dinner party, smaller drums make colorful and unusual favors. The following directions are given for making a drum 3 inches in diameter: From a circular-shaped core of styrofoam (3 inches in diameter) cut a piece 21%4 inches wide to make the drum. With strong, clear glue, attach a circle of white felt to each end of the drum shape. Cover the circumference of the styrofoam with dark blue velvet and glue narrow red velvet ribbon to each edge, leaving a loop (11% inches) of the red velvet ribbon for hanging the drum to the tree. Then glue an edging of gold-colored cord between the blue velvet and the red velvet ribbon, and, for decoration, attach the gold braid to form triangles around the drum. Hold the points of the triangles with dark blue headed pins.
