[Vol52 | September 1965 | Page 666 | General Feature | Editorial: Belonging Marianne | C. Sharp]
[Editorial: Belonging Marianne C. Sharp]

EDITORIAL

Belonging

Alone one comes into the world and alone one leaves it, but, while in mortality, the soul longs for understanding, companionship, and to have a sense of belonging.

In the days of one's youth with the family as rather a reserve group, still it is necessary for one's rounded happiness to have peer companions. Literally hours may be spent in conversation and confidences of vital importance to the young girl. A mother is concerned about a daughter who seems to have no friend of her own age with whom she can associate. When such a friend is found, a happier relationship develops.

The need for belonging sometimes results in too early dating, with attendant evils. It is essential that one be friendly with those of the same high ideals. Sometimes this need to belong to the crowd leads young people into foolish fads. But if there is nothing degrading about it, a wise mother accepts it for what it is—an expression of the need to belong, to conform to the appearances of one's schoolmates.

The joy of belonging reaches its epitome as a bride is sealed to her husband. Hereafter she does belong, and she knows it will last throughout eternity. Then the young wife needs to cherish and nourish the spirit of belonging. She needs to study her husband's righteous wishes and desires and do all in her power to strengthen and bind their eternal relationship. "They twain shall be one flesh," and she needs to make her soul a part of his. The children who bless their union, and the joys and sorrows bind them ever closer together. A remark will be made in a crowded group. It strikes an answering

Volume 52    September 1965    Number 9

• Belle S. Spafford, President
• Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor
• Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor
• Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer

chord in the hearts of the wife and husband and their eyes seek each other out in the midst of the crowd in a warm, shared feeling. This is a manifestation of a marital belonging.

As the character matures, there is still the need of belonging, of sharing, but a realization comes to one that one's belonging is not limited to this life. Tender and loved memories bridge the gap between those in mortality and those who have passed beyond mortality. Belonging takes on eternal meaning, and the eternity of the sealing power.

What if a convert has come into the Church alone, what if she has left father, mother, sister and brother, what if she never finds her life's companion? As a member of the Church she "belongs."

Recently a daughter was leaving her father who was not very well. As the daughter and her small daughter went down the stairs, the mother said, "I hate to leave him alone." The small one spoke up, "He isn't alone, Heavenly Father is with him."

That is the ultimate belonging, and the Heavenly Father is always there for any of his children who seek him. He is there for all, but only as one seeks him does one realize it. The Savior is there also—the Advocate with the Father.

The greatest belonging will be to belong to the celestial family. The Lord has said, "It is not meet that the things which belong to the children of the kingdom should be given to them that are not worthy" (D&C 41:6). Every convert to the Church through baptism is heir to the things which belong to the children of the kingdom. There is no loneliness, no aloneness in the kingdom of God—every one will belong forever.

—M. C. S.