Emily Sophia Tanner Richards By Alice L. Reynolds
In the spring of 1918 it was my pleasure to accompany Mrs. Emily S. Richards to the city of St. Louis, where she was a delegate to the convention that celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of Wyoming's receiving its suffrage. It was soon evident, after our arrival, that Carrie Chapman Catt, Dr. Anna Howard Shaw, Rachel Foster Avery, and other suffrage leaders knew her well; they spoke of her as "our dear Mrs. Richards from Utah." This title she had earned through years of devotion to the cause. So familiar were the chief executives of our State with her record that from Governor Caleb West to Governor George H. Dern she was kept in mind and given appointments to conferences and congresses on behalf of philanthropic and progressive moves for women and children.
Emily S. Richards was the daughter of Nathan and Rachel Tanner. She inherited the lofty bearing and physical beauty so prevalent in her father's family. James Matthew Barrie has one of the characters of his play say, "If you have charm you don't need anything else." Mrs. Richards had personal charm. Good looks, cheerfulness, graciousness of manner, combined to make of her a lady to the manner born. I have never seen her when she was not cheerful and dignified. But Mrs. Richards had more, much more, than the personal and spiritual graces that go to make charm. Descended from a family noted for intellectual achievement, she had the type of mind that could distinguish a worthwhile cause, and the courage to ally herself with it. Another factor that has worked materially in assisting her to carry out the well defined purposes of her life has been her husband. Franklin S. Richards and Emily S. Richards stood side by side. They were lovers always; everything she said bore evidence of the fact that he was giving her not only the material support to carry on, but that encouragement which is often so necessary
 
to keep up the real drive of the soul. I saw her at the age of sixty-nine beam at the reception of his letters and telegrams as a young girl beams over letters from her first lover. Franklin S. Richards has always been a fitting companion for his wife. He has appreciated through the years her worth, and as we consider what their union and comradeship has been, it suggests in a number of ways the life of Alice Freeman Palmer and George Herbert Palmer of Harvard fame.
Mrs. Richards is descended, as is also her husband, from one of the prominent families of the Church. Father Nathan Tanner was a friend of the Prophet Joseph, as had been his father John Tanner before him. Nathan Tanner was with Joseph when the latter was taken by the mob to Carthage jail. He died at the age of ninety-five, a revered patriarch of the Church. Of him President Joseph F. Smith said: "Nathan Tanner's devotion to the Prophet would alone insure his eternal salvation." He and his wife Rachel became the parents of Emily Sophia, born the 13th of May, 1850.
Emily passed her childhood days in pioneer surroundings, which did not shut out God's sunlight and air. She loved the fields, the flowers, and responded in joyous manner to the beauty around her. She was six years of age when her father moved from South Cottonwood into Salt Lake City. This gave her an opportunity to attend the best schools that Salt Lake had at the time. She was proud with others to have been a student of Bartlett Tripp, a man of such outstanding culture that he became the first governor of South Dakota, one of the judges of the supreme court of that state and later served the nation as United States Minister to Austria. She was eighteen years of age when she became the wife of Franklin S. Richards. Their first home was in Ogden where three sons were born to them, Franklin Dewey, Joseph Tanner and William Snyder, two of whom have preceded her to the Great Beyond. Her family was augmented later by two daughters whom she adopted and on whom she bestowed much care. The daughters were named Wealthy Lucile and Emily Helen.
It would not be fair to this good woman to continue long a sketch of her life without taking into consideration her faith in God, in the Latter-day work, and her joy in the religious life. At the beginning she was connected with organizations of the Church, serving as president of the Retrenchment Association, as an officer in the Mutual Improvement Association, and in the Relief Society. Her husband's mother, Jane Snyder Richards, was conspicuous in the organization of the Relief Society; at one time they were both members of the General Board. Emily S. Richards served on the ed the Utah State Council of Women, standing at the head of the work when the battle came on. Fortunately for the cause, her political affiliations were the same as that of the Constitutional Convention. Her husband was one of the number and assisted in placing Suffrage into the Constitution of the State. It was not an easy task. I have often listened to her relate in glowing terms the story of the anxiety of the women as the opponents of the cause flooded the chamber with oratory meant to kill the movement; of the anxious night spent in sending telegrams to women all over the State, asking them to see to it that their representatives would stand flatly for the incorporation of a suffrage clause; for truly they feared lest some might falter.
After Utah became a full-fledged suffrage State, Susan B. Anthony and Anna Howard Shaw visited the State. Their visit marked the high peak in the suffrage history of Utah. The meetings in the city, which were notable in character, were followed by a reception in Mrs. Richards' home in which Governor Caleb
 
West, with his staff in brilliant uniforms, became part of the receiving line, along with the host and hostess and their special visitors. When at last she was triumphant, party leaders asked her if she did not wish the honor of being the first woman to be elected to a state senate. She declined, but was intensely interested in aiding in the election of Mattie Paul Hughes Cannon, who had that honor, to the Senate of the State of Utah.
But she was not only a leader when the flags were flying and the drums beating. After the cause was won in Utah, the women of the State became more or less apathetic, while there was yet much to do to give suffrage to the women of the United States. The success of the movement depended largely on the States that already had suffrage. It meant a severe struggle to secure a federal amendment to the Constitution. Mrs. Richards kept the home fires burning. She visited our Congressmen in Washington, urging their support. She gave liberally of her own means and collected what she could from others, so that always the leaders of the movement knew on whom they could depend. When in 1920 the national suffrage amendment was passed, Mrs. Richards was still holding on. She attended the special session of the Utah State legislature that ratified the amendment. Later, she called a meeting with a view of organizing the League of Women Voters, an organization replacing the American Suffrage Association, which was attended by Carrie Chapman Catt and Dr. Valeria H. Parker. Here Mrs. Richards turned the reins over to others, having fought a long and good fight?a fight covering a period of twenty-five years. In view of the quality of her service, it was certainly fitting that in 1918, at St. Louis, she should have been singled out by Rachel Foster Avery as her special dinner guest.
In 1891 the Relief Society and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association were affiliated with the National Council of Women, and through that with the International Council. On that occasion, Mrs. Richards was in Washington with other women from Utah. Mrs. Richards attended meetings of both the National and International Councils of Women. An outstanding occasion was her visit to the quinquennial meeting of the International Council at Berlin in 1904. It was a notable session, remembered by those who visited it for contributions from American women of the class of Charlotte Perkins Gilman, and was brilliant in its social aspects. The delegates were received in the Kaiser's palace at Berlin where they saw the Kaiserine in robes of state. After the convention, Mrs. Richards toured Europe with her husband, which was a joy, giving experience to her.
EMILY SOPHIA TANNER RICHARDS 525
To continue, she was appointed president of the Utah board of lady managers to the Columbian exposition in Chicago in 1893, and during the summer session of the World's Fair was hostess in the Utah building. She received appointments also as vice-president of the Utah delegation to the California mid-winter fair in 1893-94, and to the International Exposition at Atlanta in 1895.
Mrs. Richards was noted for her interest in peace. For a number of years she served as a member of the State Peace Society. She was president of the Mother's Congress of Utah and was Utah's representative to National and International Congress of Charities and Corrections, from time to time. In political fields Mrs. Richards has served as national Democratic committeewoman for Utah and has been a member of the national woman's Democratic committee. She was alternate delegate to the national Democratic convention in 1896.
Her contribution to education is noted in the fact that she was for ten years trustee of the Utah Agricultural College, and also a member of the board of trustees of the Salt Lake Public Library. It was inevitable that one of her vast experience in public affairs should be sought during a catastrophe such as the World War. She was a member of the Utah State Council of Defense, as well as a member of the Woman's Liberty Loan Committee. She served her county as a member of the executive committee of the Red Cross. Those of us who recall the strenuous days of the war will recognize that a full quota had been allotted her. The vigor of her service at this time showed clearly that she had not grown weary in well doing. She, too, was one of the one hundred selected women who, led by Mrs. Catt, went to the White House and offered to President Wilson the services of two million organized women pending an outbreak of war.
Mr. Richards' professional duties took him to Washington a good deal. At one time he was in residence there for practically five years. During this time Mrs. Richards became acquainted with the leaders of women's movements. She also met the wives of the senators at their weekly afternoon receptions. When they later returned to Utah and built their home, it was her desire to build in such a manner that in the event of any of these leaders coming to Salt Lake she would have a place where they might be entertained. Her wish was gratified in full measure. Her beautiful home was always a social center. Many citizens will bring to mind special occasions when she entertained. Some of us will recall an evening when Ella Wheeler Wilcox was the guest of honor; others, when Susan B. Anthony, Anna Howard Shaw, and Rachel Foster Avery were at her home; while yet others will remember Carrie Chapman Catt, Dr. Valeria H. Parker and Mrs. Emily Newell Blair.
 
Mrs. Richards passed quietly away at the family residence, 175 A Street, Salt Lake City, on Monday afternoon, Aug. 19, 1929. In the morning she had been in town where she had seen a number of her friends, among them Mrs. George H. Dern. She expressed great pleasure at seeing and visiting with her friends. She passed as those who loved her would have her pass, free from extended suffering, with her family at her side.
It is remarkable how much one person can accomplish when the head and heart are set in the right direction. Mrs. Richards was a leader born, and to the very last exhibited characteristics of leadership. She inspired in the minds of those who knew her great admiration on the one hand and tender devotion on the other. One of the choicest of choice women, she has served her family and friends, her State, Nation, and Church, nobly and well. She has made her place, which is a place of sacredness and of honor; she has left a memory around which is bound much of what is lovely and ideal. It was eminently fitting that at her service, President Heber J. Grant should be there to express his appreciation for her religious life; that Orson F. Whitney, a poet, should stand as a symbol of the ideality that was so much a part of her; that Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon should symbolize her great contribution to the progress of women, and that her brother, Mr. C. C. Richards, should pay tribute to her home life.
Emily A loving tribute to Mrs. Franklin S. Richards
"Come unto me, ye blessed of my Father."
Kindness and friendliness beamed from Emily's eyes. Her heart and hands reached out to works of love. Last evening bright and glad?today surprise Brings message of "her going home"?above!
No ling'ring hours of weariness and dread? But ready transport to her God instead.
Her soul's companion, children, grandchildren, friends, Confess God's hand in this benign release. To hearts bereft His matchless grace extends Sweet consolation, hope, and sacred peace. May we live worthy, from earth's changing clod, To meet her in her heavenly home with God.