Message and Characters of the Book of Mormon
We are gratified to welcome another book intended to extend appreciation for the Book of Mormon. It comes at an opportune time and is a fitting contribution to mark the centenary of the publication of the book. In a sense it is the story of the Book of Mormon with some of its divine teachings, told through its characters, therefore is very properly entitled, Message and Characters of the Book of Mormon. It is told in modern English, and grips the reader with its fascinating style. The task is not an easy one; consequently we congratulate the author, John Henry Evans, on his signal success.
A thing worthy of note is the fact that the spirit of the book has been preserved. It emphasizes what is perhaps the most important message in the Book of Mormon?the testimony that Jesus is the Christ, which all the prophets bear witness to. Each chapter opens with a story or a bit of philosophy that adds to the interest of the chapter. As an example, we include the following from Chapter Thirteen:
"Hold a fresh lily to your eye and examine its wonders?its white purity, its exquisite outlines, its delicate tracings that no human hand can ever hope to match. And yet all this rich beauty has been made out of mud and slime that gives you a shudder just to look at it. Through the fine arteries of that long, tender stem shooting up out of the still water, in silence and without effort,
 
that filth has been lifted up and been transformed into a thing of incomparable loveliness.
"It is often so in human life. Good may be got out of everything?provided we have a transformer inside us. A lightning stroke that killed his companion made Martin Luther a monk. The ridiculous shoutings and other emotional antics of a religious revival turned Joseph Smith's thoughts to God. And the horrible murder of the Prophet Abinadi awoke in one of Noah's priests a conscience that stirred up great masses to religious devotion. Truly, the blood of a martyr is the seed of the Church, as has been proved over and over again in the history of the world.
"This chapter, therefore, is to tell of one of these wonder-working miracles in the human heart, which have often been known to transform a man into something that surpasses even the splendor of the lily."
The titles of the chapters have a modern smack and add to the interest of the book; for example, "Two Thousand Boy Scouts," "A Nephite Iago." We wish to say something about the mechanics of the book. It is one of the very finest books from a mechanical standpoint ever turned from the press by a local author. It is a beautiful book, bound in brown leather, with a full size statue of the Angel Moroni in gold and a gilded representation of the plates upon the cover. The paper and print are of excellent quality; they are soft to the eyes, making easy reading. It is a source of gratification to have a book issued in such thoroughly artistic form. It should be said in passing that the drawings illustrating ancient American culture and civilization are the work of John Henry Evans, Jr.
When the Sun is Blotted Out
A total eclipse of the sun is a rare sight, indeed; scientists often travel halfway around the earth to observe the phenomenon, which seldom lasts, in any one spot, more than four or five minutes. It is an awesome spectacle to watch the sun disappear, to become aware of darkness shrouding the landscape, to see the stars "come out," and to be startled by the flaming corona of the sun?the blazing gases that fling themselves out into space beyond the black disc that hides the sun itself.
In an eclipse the sun fails. Primitive peoples become afraid thinking perhaps some god has been offended and has blotted out the sun forever. Indeed, the very word eclipse suggests this failing, for, according to Webster's New International Dictionary, it comes from the Greek for "a forsaking, failing." When the sun forsakes the earth in an eclipse scientists quiver with expectancy and excitement while the ignorant tremble in mortal alarm.
Notes From the Field
Northcentral States Mission
A most interesting report of the Relief Society activities in the Northcentral States Mission reached the office shortly after the release of President John G. and Sister Allred. Accompanying the letter was a fine photograph of the Minneapolis Branch Relief Society.
MINNEAPOLIS BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Northcentral States Mission
Sister Allred writes: "I wish to acknowledge the hearty cooperation and help that we have received from the district presidents and lady missionaries. Sometimes I think that without their support and wise counsel we could scarcely have carried on, especially where numbers were few. All of these branches in the last four years have held bazaars, food sales, and in many other ways have worked hard to acquire funds. The Minneapolis and St. Paul, as also the Winnipeg sisters, have put on plays and pageants.
"I am pleased to report that our Magazine subscriptions have increased from 51 in 1925, to 95 in 1928. We hear many good things about the Magazine, and find that those who take it are the ones who best appreciate the lesson work. The new theology lessons have been very much enjoyed, as also the literary lessons and social service."
The mission was organized in 1925, the membership steadily increasing. In the larger cities summer work has been tried, but so many members go on vacations or move into the country for
 
the summer that it has been scarcely worthwhile. During the year 1928, Sister Allred visited and held conferences in all the branch Relief Societies. There are nine branches in the mission. All are in good working order, being led by capable and efficient women who have a warm testimony of the gospel.
"In closing I would like to express my joy and satisfaction in being able to help in this work. It has been a great pleasure to mingle with the sisters and to help out whenever I could. It is unnecessary to say that with genuine regrets I am leaving many wonderful people. However, we are ready to welcome Sister Welling; and I am sure that every sister in the mission will sustain the splendid work of the Relief Society."
Northwestern States Mission
A letter from Sister Pearl C. Sloan, mission president, says: "We are very proud of the work of this Relief Society, of which we are sending the picture.
MISSOULA BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Northwestern States Mission
With one exception every member of the Missoula, Montana, Relief Society is on the picture; the sister who is not there was ill at the time.
"We have had an unusual year's work, and are looking forward with pleasure to the next season."
In Missoula, Montana, a Relief Society was organized October 31, 1928.