'Aunt Em's' Life Portrayed in Pageant " "We live in deeds not words," is truly manifest in the lives of those who through the years strive to help their fellow men. To men and women who hold high the lamp of life and let its light shine to brighten the path of others, there is no death. The spirit in their lives proves its immortality in the heart of memory; therefore, as the years go by, those lives devoted to others' advancement still shine on in the world. 'This summer at Mackinac Island, Michigan, the Professional and Business Women's Club held its national convention. The closing session consisted of a pageant portraying in succession the life of the most outstanding woman of each State in the Union. The clubs of the organization in the respective States decided by vote the selection of its most noted woman. The Utah clubs voted for Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells. They considered her the woman who had rendered the greatest service to the women of her State, Utah. Miss Ora Harmston of Richfield, State president of the Utah society, Miss Elizabeth Fitzgerald, assistant principal of the Salt Lake West High School, and Miss Margaret Stewart of Ogden were the delegates from Utah; on them was placed the task of presenting Utah's part in the entertainment. The pageant was prepared by Miss Nelson of Richfield, state secretary of the organization. It was written in three parts? education, suffrage, and philanthropy?including the unique story of the storing of the wheat. The personal call of President and Mrs. Wilson, in behalf of the nation to express to Mrs. Wells his ?the President's?grateful thanks for the large amount of wheat bestowed at the time of the World War was interwoven in the story, which was read by Miss Margaret Stewart of Ogden to the music of the song, "Our Mountain Home So Dear," composed by Mrs. Wells. To represent Mrs. Wells, Miss Elizabeth Fitzgerald was 530, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE chosen. She wore the actual costumes, including the well remembered paisley shawl and silver-colored bonnet, with the beautiful Utah silk dress, now the property of the Daughters of the Pioneers. She was declared to be a perfect representation of the character. Miss Fitzgerald's slight build, classic features, and soft grey hair?so like "Aunt Em's'?made her delightfully real in the quaint costume. On their return home, the delegates were enthusiastic over the success of the pageant, pronouncing it the finest one presented and the one that received the most applause. The popularity of the pageant was reiterated in a letter from Miss Fitzgerald written on board a Cunard liner on the Atlantic ocean, as she was on her way for a tour of Europe at the close of the convention. She wrote that "Even after going to New York, and since I have been on the boat, I have had to tell her story over and over again, adding many of the little incidents that our limited time at Mackinac did not permit us to tell. Over and over again I heard at our convention this expression: 'I think Utah presented the most interesting woman.'" She further writes, "I am sure our little bit will make people understand that the women of Utah were among the leaders in any forward-looking movement." 'It is always gratifying to know that one of our dearly beloved women has received such honors, and to feel, as in this case, that they are worthily bestowed?a verification that our good deeds live after us and that the sweet influence of "Aunt Em's" life has left its shining light, a guide and inspiration for the women of Zion and all women.