[Vol5 | January 1918 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]
NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD.  29 
Brinton,  former  counselors  to  President  Leonora  T.  Harrington. 
An  attractive  musical  program  was  rendered  and  refreshments 
were  served. 
About  300  local  and  stake  officers  were  in  attendance,  includ- 
ing Board  members  of  the  Cottonwood  stake  Relief  Society. 
ONLY  A  VOLUNTEER. 
Why  didn't  I  wait  to  be  drafted, 
And  led  to  the  train  by  a  band, 
And  put  in  a  claim  for  exemption ; 
Oh,  why  did  I  hold  up  my  hand? 
Why  didn't  I  wait  for  the  banquet? 
Why  didn't  I  wait  to  be  cheered  ? 
For  the  drafted  men  "get  the  credit" 
While  T — merely  volunteered. 
And  nobody  gave  me  a  banquet 
And  nobody  said  a  kind  word. 
The  grind  of  the  wheels  of  the  engine 
Was  all  the  goodbye  that  I  heard. 
Then  off  to  the  camp  I  was  mustered 
To  be  trained  for  the  next  half  year. 
And  then  in  the  shuffle  forgotten — 
I  was  only  a  volunteer. 
And  maybe  some  day  in  the  future 
When  my  little  boy  sits  on  my  knee. 
And  asks  what  I  did  in  the  conflict 
And  his  little  eyes  look  up  to  me — 
I  will  have  to  look  back,  as  in  blushing, 
To  the  eyes  that  so  trustingly  peer 
And  tell  him  I  missed  being  drafted — 
I  was  onlv  "a  volunteer." 
NOTE    RETURNED  TO  A  UTAH  CTRL    l<ROM    ARMY 
FRONT. 
I  want  to  thank  you  for  the  socks  you  knit. 
But  sorry  to  say  they  do  not  fit. 
Wear  one  for  a  scarf  and  one  for  a  mitt, 
Where  in  the  world  did  you  learn  to  knit?

Fruits  of  Endeavor. 
By  Ruth  Moench  Bell. 
There  was  a  sensation  in  North  Hammond  when  Louise  Ren- 
shaw,  one  of  America's  leading  artists,  came  seeking  a  model  for 
a  painting. 
"I  was  through  here,  on  my  way  to  the  coast,  five  years  ago," 
she  explained  to  Mrs.  Cheevers,  who  had  been  pointed  out  to  her 
as  the  woman  most  interested  in  art  in  the  town.  "I  saw  at  the 
station  then  a  woman  whose  face  I  have  never  been  able  to  forget. 
She  was  gazing  after  the  moving  train  with  a  look  of  infinite 
peace  as  though  the  currents  of  her  life  had  been  stilled  into  a 
majestic  calm." 
"I  cannot  imagine  whom  you  mean,"  Mrs.  Cheevers  observed, 
as  the  artist  paused,  seemingly  ab.sor])e(l  in  musings  concerning 
her  painting. 
"Behind  her  in  a  lot,"  the  artist  continued,  "just  beyond  the 
station  was  a  pear  tree,  in  the  fulness  of  its  autumnal  beauty. 
Not  a  stray  branch  projected  beyond  the  prescribed  bounds  of  the 
shapely  whole.  It  was  as  if  the  tree  had  been  moulded  and  col- 
ored by  a  master  hand  to  whom  it  subjected  its  own  will  with 
faith  and  confidence  in  the  ultimate  harmony." 
For  some  time  the  artist  sat  rapt  in  the  vision  that  some  day 
was  to  inspire  thousands.  After  while  she  resumed,  as  much  to 
herself  as  to  her  interested  listener. 
"I  have  never  forgotten  that  tree  or  the  face  of  that  woman. 
Every  autumn  they  renew  their  hold  on  me.  This  autumn  I  came 
here  hoping  to  find  her  and  paint  the  picture  which  I  shall  call 
'Fulfilment.'  In  the  tree:  fulfilment  of  all  the  promises  of  spring, 
the  rich  ripening  of  summer's  radiance  and  the  repose  after  labor 
joyfully  accomplished.  In  the  woman  :  the  fulfilment  of  her  girl-
