[Vol18 | January 1931 | Sequence: 23d | Category: Lesson | Title: Social Service - Personality Study: Habits and Growth]

Social Service. (Fourth Week in March) PERSONALITY STUDY: Based on Overstreet's "Influencing Human Behavior," HABITS AND GROWTH pages 169-183, 201-216 "The most widespread disease of humanity," remarked a great sociologist in a lecture before the students of the Alpine session of Brigham Young University, "is the unwillingness to work." During his travels in many different countries he had observed unmistakable evidences that in the presence of work to be done, practically every human being tries with more or less success to "let George do it." Countless interesting subterfuges are invented—The Chinaman lets his finger nails grow so that he can't work.

The American becomes a hobo or finds an easy "white-collar job." The European often manages to "let the women do the work." Religionists throughout the world very frequently lose sight of the spur to individual achievement presented by their early prophets and conjure up much more lazy and comfortable means of salvation.

Such observations and generalizations correspond remarkably well with those which have been made by psychologists.

In a former lesson our attention was directed to a human characteristic, sometimes called the "tendency to minimum effort." Thorndike gives it as his impression that "the majority of men remain far below their limit of efficiency, even when it is decidedly in their interest to approach it, and when they think they are doing the best that they are capable of." This "tendency to minimum effort," coupled with a desire to maintain our self respect, leads to a number of mental habits that hinder our personal growth.

What our personalities are like, as we have already seen, is largely the result of our past training and experience.

During our lives we pass through many specific conflicts in the effort to make satisfactory social adjustments to the environments in which we find ourselves.

These struggles are for the most part mental in character, but they are none the less real and important in their consequences.

They are efforts at self-preservation (seldom mere physical self-preservation), and the "advancement of one's ego." The typical outcome of these mental battles is not complete victory nor complete defeat, but rather a sort of not altogether satisfactory compromise.

Since the habit-systems that make up our personalities crystallize more or less as a result of our reactions to the conflicts we pass through, it may help us to understand various possibilities if we list some of the types of reaction which are frequently adopted in these mental struggles.

On the one hand we may assume and hold more or less continuously an aggressive attitude, facing reality and recognizing rather honestly whatever the outcome may be.

The genuine optimist may be taken as a person likely to adopt this attitude.

He is not only willing but anxious to take into account unfavorable facts, but he also has an aggressive program based upon an unfeigned confidence that evil can be overcome with good.

On the other hand we may adopt one or more of a number of types of somewhat well known defensive reactions.

We shall enumerate and discuss just seven of them. 1. We may recognize but refuse to meet the difficulty.

An example of this is the pouting reaction seen in children and not infrequently in some adults.

The pessimist also furnishes us with typical reactions under this heading.

Even at his best he recognizes the existence of evil, but seems to lack the faith and willingness to expend energy which is required to cope adequately with the situation. 2. We may avoid battle by denying to ourselves and others the existence of any issue that should give us concern.

Here we may point to the counterfeit optimist so often met with— the "cheerful idiot" who, of course, has no program of social betterment, because whatever is, is "fine and dandy" and "couldn't be better." Also typical of this reaction is the keeping of our religion and business or our religion and science in separate "water-tight" compartments of our minds, so to speak.

Perhaps this condition would not be so comfortable to us if we knew that our friends sometimes suspect us of lacking intellectual honesty and the genuine kind of faith that dares to inquire. 3. Sometimes rather than admit our present defeat we try to overshadow it by keeping in mind some previous victory.

An example is the repulsed lover returning for comfort to a consideration of the time when he was his mother's darling.

Mr. Nebbs and Major Hoople of the comic strips, seem to resort to somewhat similar regressions in order to bolster up their self-regard with least bother to themselves in the way of present achievement. 4. Which one of us has not taken satisfaction in the midst of conflict by congratulating ourselves as being more fortunate than the other fellow—the one who didn't even get a chance to be a "goat," for example.

Self-consolation obtained by playing the role of a snob, either as an individual or as a group, (there are many varieties), is a rather poor way of blinding ourselves, and as one writer says it "simply kills any initiative we may have to improve our position." (See Overstreet, pages 178-181, also Jno. 8:31-39, Alma 31:16-28, Rom. 2:17-29). 5. Sometimes we soothe ourselves by dwelling in a world of phantasy, considering either the great things we might have done or the easy victories that some day will be ours.

Mr. Overstreet takes quite a thrust at some so-called Christians who evade the religious responsibilities of the here and now by dwelling too much upon supposed matters pertaining to the next world.

Such people seem to despise their present existence, referring to it as passing through a "vale of tears." They have an intense and supposedly pious yearning to be freed from all that pertains to this earth and to come into possession of the peace and supposed rest of heaven.

The sentiments expressed in the songs which they sing with especial fervor are like the following: "Come on, my partners in distress, My comrades through the wilderness, Who still your bodies feel: Awhile forget your griefs and fears, And look beyond this vale of tears, To that celestial hill." "Fair land!—could mortal eyes But half its charms explore, How would our spirits long to rise, And dwell on earth no more!" "I languish and sigh to be there, Where Jesus hath fixed his abode; O when shall we meet in the air, And fly to the mountain of God!" Of course Latter-day Saints should not fall into the error of being too other-worldly in their concerns, or of despising their mortal bodies and this earthly existence.

It is more typical for us to sing songs with sentiments appreciative of our present natural surroundings, and of the need of making this world a better place in which to live.

Then, too, the prophet Alma plainly says that "now is the time and the day of your salvation." In the same spirit Brigham Young said: "We ought not to speak lightly of and undervalue the life we now enjoy, but so dispose of each passing day that the hours and minutes are spent in doing good * * * in improving our talents and abilities to do more good. * * * "It would be no blessing to you to be carried into the celestial kingdom, and obliged to stay therein, unless you were prepared to dwell there.

"This life is worth as much as any life that any being can possess in time or in eternity. * * * "It is my business to teach mankind how to live, how to honor their present existence, how to treat their bodies so as to live to a good old age on the earth, and have power to do good." (Discourses of Brigham Young, pages 140, 146, 446, 513.) To continue our enumeration let us mention briefly just two more very human reactions to conflict. 6. A seemingly very satisfactory and frequently used way of explaining away defeat, is to shift the blame for our failures to the shoulders of someone else.

Our successful rival "had a pull." The devil was working against us or again on the basis of no real evidence at all, we may even blandly remark that "it was God's will." 7. Sometimes we succeed more or less in exonerating ourselves by rather skillfully shifting the blame to certain uncontrollable circumstances that seem to be plausible explanations.

The failure would not have occurred except for our ill luck, bad health, or our alleged condition of over-work or inability to sleep, and so on.

Before leaving the subject of defensive reactions, it should be emphasized that typically in most of them we are not ourselves aware that we are using them.

We not only succeed in fooling others to some extent, but we are perhaps most successful in "kidding" ourselves, and that is the real pity of it all.

Happy may the person be who was brought up during his childhood with plenty of experience with success so that he has not developed a lot of fabrication habits to hinder his progress.

Of course this does not mean that he should never have come face to face with hard problems to solve, but he should be guarded from an undue number of impossible ones that preclude any chance of success in spite of a reasonable amount of ingenuity, industriousness and persistence on his part.

A Few of the Possible Problems for Discussion 1. Explain briefly the two basic drives mentioned in our text, viz.

Self-regard and least effort.

In this connection read and comment upon the quotation from Swift, given in the September Magazine, page 516. 2. Mention several maladjustments which people might make in relation to the mental conflicts they encounter. 3. In relation to the tendencies toward other worldliness which might even afflict some members of our own group, read suitable extracts from the following songs in our book of Deseret Sunday School Songs, Nos. 52, 60, 123, 139, 197, 207, 222, and 228. Have any songs with sentiments like those in the verses quoted above been included in our Sunday School song book?

If so, are they favorites with us and what is their source? 4. We sometimes speak of ourselves as being the "chosen people" of God.

Can it be possible that with some of us this notion serves us just like the fabricated superiority which Overstreet speaks of—buttressing our insecure self-respect and nourishing the "tendency to minimum effort?" Or do most of us feel challenged to worthy effort because we feel that our people have been chosen not so much for favor as for service and responsibility? 5. In the biography of a Latter-day Saint missionary to the Society Islands, it tells of his efforts to dislodge the native converts from their "indolent reliance upon ceremonial for salvation. * * * To them religion was an invitation to comfort and peace, rather than a call to adventure and service, often to heroic performance." He had come to appreciate the fact that "religious and moral character * * is an achievement, not a gift; an invitation to struggle and accomplishment, not to peace and security." Compare the insight of this missionary with that reflected in such Bible passages as the following: Hosea 6:6; Micah 6:6-8; Amos 5:14-15, 21-24; Isa. 1:10-17; Jer. 7:5-7, 21-22, Matt. 25: 31-46; Jno. 8:31-39, Rom. 2:17-29. 6. Read Mosiah 18:8-13; Alma 31:16-28; 34:28-34; 41:14; II Nephi 9:16, 33, 38; Mormon 9:14; D. & C. 11:12, 20; 58:26-29; 108:99, and comment along the line of the thoughts suggested in problem five.

To what extent do these extracts from characteristic Mormon scripture emphasize a conception of religion which does not permit of careless procrastination or empty emotionalism, or a lazy reliance upon mere rituals and ceremonies as substitutes for initiative and self-effort here and now as essential conditions of salvation? 7. It is fairly easy for us to recognize defensive reactions in other people, especially in children.

Suggest several specific ways of helping them.

How may we ourselves overcome these tendencies?

In their extreme forms to what do they lead? 8. We have all heard the saying that "nothing succeeds like success." Of what importance is this idea in relation to personality development?

Should children be provided with a lot of cheap or undeserved "successes?" If not, what are the characteristics of real successes and what should be done to bring them about? 9. Read carefully page 181 of our text and write out your best comment on it for presentation before the class. 10. In Chapter XII, Overstreet discusses in a clear manner certain interesting problems of social and political progress.

With what part of this chapter do you find yourself in closest agreement?

Point out one or two things he expresses with which you do not readily agree.

HAPPY LITTLE