[Vol18 | January 1931 | Sequence: 21e | Category: Article | Title: Whitehouse Conference on Childhood Health and Protection]
Whitehouse Conference on Childhood Health and Protection

THE United States is greatly blessed in having as its chief executive President Herbert Hoover, a man who is so vitally interested in human beings. His love for children is deep, and his interest in their welfare is one of his marked characteristics. Shortly after he became president, he announced that he would call a conference on child health and protection, with the object in view of finding out what ought to be done and the best way of doing it. At his call in 1929, the body met, and after several sessions adjourned to carry on a year's research. Twelve hundred experts have delved into the subject and in November, 1930, brought with them their printed report to the White House Conference on Child Health and Protection. For the use of this conference, foundations, educational institutions, and commissions have carried on investigations and have made surveys throughout the United States. This conference is not a governmental affair but is an unofficial service rendered in response to President Hoover's call. It is financed by funds given by those who, like the President, are interested in child welfare, and by grants from foundations and associations that are interested in child study. Secretary Wibur said these twelve hundred investigators are assembling all that it is possible to find out about children, to be sifted, sorted, and given back to those who have practical every-day dealings with them.

President Hoover himself opened the White House Conference on Child Health and Protection. He said:

FROM your explorations into the mental and moral endowment and opportunities of children will develop new methods to inspire their creative work and play, to substitute love and self discipline for the rigors of rule, to guide their recreations into wholesome channels, to steer them past the reefs of temptation, to develop their character and to bring them to adult age in tune with life, strong in moral fiber and prepared to play more happily their part in the productive tasks of society.

"The problems of the child are not always the problems of the child alone. In the vision of the whole of our social fabric, we have loosened new inhibitions, new energies; we have produced a complexity of life for which there is no precedent. With machines ever enlarging man's power and capacity, with electricity extending over the world its magic, with the air giving us a wholly new realm, our children must be prepared to meet entirely new contacts and new forces. They must be physically strong and mentally placed to stand up under the increasing pressure of life. Their problem is not alone one of physical health, but of mental, emotional and spiritual health.

"These are the problems that I charge you to answer. This task that you have come here to perform has never been done before. These problems are not easily answered, they reach the very root of our national life. We need to meet them squarely and to accuse ourselves as frankly as possible, to see all the implications that trail in our wake, and to place the blame where it lies and set resolutely to attack it."

President Hoover told the conference that the problem falls into three groups: "First, the protection and stimulation of the normal child; second, aid to the physically defective and handicapped child; third, the problems of the delinquent child."
