Literature (Third Week.

In March) Tue Suort Story In GERMANY Suggested Short Stories The Coming of Gandin by Gottfriend Von Strassburg™. The Sick Wife by Christian Gellert.

The Fury by Paul Heyse.

The Triple Warning by Arthur Schnitzler.

A New Year's Eve Confession by Herman Sudermann*. To devote just one lesson to the Short Story in Germany is somewhat like taking a trip around the world in a Zeppelin and looking out of the window but once.

German literature is rich in short stories and her writers have contributed much to that form of art; yet the stories of this country are, in many instances, not as well known as they deserve to be.

Nor has their influence been as wide as might be expected of so intellectual a nation.

There are several reasons for this.

As with anything else, stories existed before their terminology was known, and German short stories are as old as German literature.

But the German mind, which takes so easily to analysis, divides and subdivides its subjects, and the short story has not escaped.

The Germans have made so many classes, instead of holding to the one term, novelle, that it has been difficult for the non-German reader to understand that the short story as we understand it exists in Germany.

However, since the World War, editors and other writers in Germany have tended to adopt the two terms, novelle and erzahlung, just as in English we have the short story and the tale.

Moreover, as a usual thing, the German short story is too long, giving a great deal of space to description.

It is not at all uncommon for a German short story to be from twenty to thirty thousand words long, while we favor our short stories from twelve hundred up— and the upward limit is soon reached.. Another reason is that the Germans have lost many excellent stories (novellen) through not collecting them in books.

Thus their stories die too early and they lose the dignity of permanence. (Many of the stories in our Church have been lost for this same reason.) Then the German critics have been unkind to the story writers.

A large number of them have taken the attitude that there have never been great short stories in German and that the modern writers have no claim to greatness.

And it is also true that in Germany it is hard to find a representative writer.

Indeed no German has ever written the complete history of the short story in his country.

Germany, however, has been, kind to the writers of other nations, for their translations include most of the literature of the world.

In spite of these drawbacks, the German short story ranks in quantity and quality with that of other nations.

Up until 1200 there was no distinct type of short story for the very reason that there was no prose in which stories might be written.

Germany was almost two centuries later than France in developing her prose.

Readers may find this next statement hard to credit, but it was not until 1687 that Christian Thomasius amazed his colleagues at the University of Leipzig by announcing that from then on he would deliver his lectures in German instead of in Latin.

Martin Luther, born in 1483, has been rightly called the father of German prose.

Yet it was a good many years after his birth that the German language became an effective medium of expression.

Some two hundred years before Martin Luther there had been a number of classical writers, Gottfried Von Strassburg among them, but for a long time after the German language was given such impetus, there were no gifted writers.

Boccacio was translated in 1460 and the Gesta Romanorum of England was also made available, giving Germany something more exciting to read than anything she could produce.

It was the Reformation in the sixteenth century that brought about great reforms in economics, religion, and philosophy, and it was during the period of 1500 to 1770 that the seeds were sown for modern German literature, of which the short story is an integral part.

During this period Germany's greatest universities were either founded or took their place in the intellectual life of the nation.

Previous to the appearance of the universities, critical thought was an almost unknown thing.

Authors were so intent upon their moral that they forgot style and form.

When the professor arrived, he emphasized art for its own sake and analyzed for his students the strengths and weaknesses of his materials.

Translations became more common and German literature was founded.

From the sixteenth to well into the eighteenth centuries, many different types of stories flourished— Volkbrecher, fablen, and marchen to mention a few.

These stories differed in two ways from the modern conception: They were didactic and they appealed too much to the supernatural.

Gottsched, for more than half of the eighteenth century, taught at Leipzig that prose should be used exclusively for theorizing.

But while the professor talked, the people were reading Schnabel's Insel Felsenburg, Germany's Robinson (Crusoe.

And in 1776 Shakespeare was translated into prose and was produced on the stage.

People learned that the great English writer had used short stories for his sources.

The short story had come to stay. 1796 to 1830 was approximately the great period of the Romanticists.

These writers felt that in their stories they should tell of something that had never been written before.

Heaven and hell and strange worlds in between were used to stir the imagination, and Italy and Spain were resorted to more than Germany itself.

A number of these writers, among them Tieck, Wieland and Goethe, tried to establish the novelle as a distinct form.

The real short story writers among the Romanticists were Kleist, Hoffman, Tieck, Brentano, Arnim and Eichendorff.

Kleist was the greatest genius and is the best dramatist of Germany, while Hoffman was the most gifted story writer.

It was he who greatly influenced Edgar Allen Poe.

Hoffman was endowed with a mysterious sixth sense and his characters today seem as so many Dr. Jekylls and Mr. Hydes, ghosts, sprites, vampires, doomed men, and fairy children.

He did much to introduce the novelle and to make it an enduring type, and he did not write one indelicate line.

Many lesser writers have failed in imitating Hoffman.

His genius was too strange and great.

Brentano was the son of a family with partly Italian blood.

He introduced humor into the short story and Eichendorff used his genius to champion loveliness and to glorify the charms of nature.

Of the next group, Paul Heyse, 11830-1914, was the leader.

Rather than draw his material from Germany he went to the Southlands for his stories.

It was in 1910 that he won the Nobel prize in literature.

He was a great admirer of Boccacio, and especially of one story, "The Falcon," which will be studied later in the Italian group.

From this one story Heyse derived much of his theory for writing short stories. 'His theory has also been widely accepted.

Many of the best short stories in Germany were written from 1870 on to the World War.

Women now began to add to literature.

One of the first of the earlier writers was Annette Von Droste-Huhlshoff, 1822-1891. Since her time there have been Marie Von Ebner-Eschenbach, Helene Stcekl, Isolde, Kurz, Gabriele Reuter, Richardo Huch, and many others.

Some of the later writers who have won world fame are, Arthur Schnitzler, Thomas Mann, Herman Sudermann, Jacob Wasserman, and Zweig.

Schnitzler and Sudermann will be written of in more detail.

Thomas Mann is considered by many to be the greatest of the living German writers.

In 1929 he won the Nobel Prize for his "Magic Mountain," and his first great novel, in a way the autobiography of his youth and youthful thinking, is ""Buddenbrooks." Herman Sudermann Herman Sudermann was born in East Prussia in 1857, of a poor Mennonite family.

At the age of fourteen he was apprenticed to a chemist, but the boy was not satisfied and by various struggles he was able to enter the University of Tilsit, and later the University of Berlin.

He tutored, did many kinds of work, and wrote for the newspapers, 58. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and at one time was a journalist.

It was in 1885 that a collection was made of his newspaper stories, and the next year he wrote one of his great novels, "Dame Care" (Frau Sorge). Since then he has written much, stories, novels and plays.

His characters are swayed by passions, sorrows, and mental twists which everyone is familiar with in some degree.

Thus Sudermann's characters give his readers a feeling of kinship and of sympathy.

He is almost always sympathetic with his characters and has a firm faith in the saving power of women, a theme running through many of his writings.

Arthur Schnitzler Great writers are often associated with great cities—Dickens with London, Zola with Paris—and Arthur Schnitzler and Vienna are inseparable.

He is a product of the Austrian capital and he writes of every phase of Viennese life, though he is more apt to avoid the very lowly and the very high.

His love for his city is not of the intense political nature some men feel.

He loved it under Franz Josef and he loves it under his President. 'What has held him true has been the city that housed Mozart, Beethoven, Haydn, the city that is filled with great architects, painters, sculptors, actors, singers, writers, and scientists, the city of restaurants, laughter, and waltz music.

Of Schnitzler's personal life little is known.

He feels that this is his own private affair, and he does not want his biography written.

He was born of a family of Hungarian Jews, his father being a noted doctor of medicine at the University of Vienna.

Dr. Johann Schnitzler loved the theatre and his private practice included many renowned members of the operatic and theatrical world. 'So 'this son came rightly by his love of drama and music.

Arthur Schnitzler was born May 15, 1862 and became, like his father, a doctor of medicine.

Later he turned more to the practice of the psychological phases.

Of medicine and many of his dramas and stories revolve about a doctor of that type.

He has always kept up some private practice, even after his fiftieth birthday, when he was recognized as Austria's most gifted writer.

Schnitzler has beautifully molded features and a sensitive face, and his writings are sometimes delicate and fragile.

For a long time he had little confidence in his gifts, keeping his writing in obscurity.

His writings are for a public, sophisticated in life as well as in art.

He invests human life with the grace and charm of poetry, but through it all runs a strain of melancholy.

His cynicism is not distrust in human nature; rather it is the knowledge that comes with complete vision of man's frailties.

If he has any fixed philosophy to guide his writings, it is that man is uneven and so are his days.

He feels that temptation is everywhere and the person who escapes it is not so often strong as merely inactive.

Arthur Schnitzler is not the greatest writer Austria has produced, but he is the most interesting.

In his own field, that of creating tragedy ending with hope in the offing and of comedy closing with pathos near, he is without a superior in any nation.

To the Teachers: You will find that most of these German stories will be enjoyed by the class members.

The first and the last in the suggested list have been starred as being particularly appropriate.

Schnitzler's story, too, is short and will arouse a great deal of comment.

The "Sick Wife" is also brief and will be enjoyed for its humor.

One of woman's traits has a long history.

"The Fury" is a beautiful and romantic story, and is found in almost every collection of great short stories from various nations.

The pronunciation of the German names may seem a little difficult, but they are, on the whole, pronounced just as they are spelled.

Sudermann has the oo u and the a is a short a. To give all the others would require too much time and space, but you cannot go very wrong in pronouncing them.

Questions The Triple Warning: What is the theme of this story and what is Schnitzler's philosophy?

Is the meaning allegorical?

A New Year's Eve Confession: Are you aware at any point in the story (not counting the climax) that either the husband or the friend knew who held the wife's real love?

Do you believe the husband's last statement?

In what way does this story show Sudermann's belief in good women?

Is this a true short story?

Why?

Is this story strictly German in local color and character?

What is most emphasized, plot, character, or action?

What is the conflict in this story and who is the chief character?

The Fury: Mention details that place the characters of this story (a) racially, (b) socially.

Who is the dominant character?

What clues show Laurella's love for Antonio?

Why did she struggle against her love for him?

If her inner struggle is the chief one, what other struggle is also important?

Show how the two combined make one large conflict?

Which is the scene of dramatic climax?

In what way does the curato contribute to the story?

What is the length of the action?

Have you obtained anything from these stories that will give you a better insight into the German racial characteristics?