[Vol18 | January 1931 | Sequence: 23b | Category: Lesson | Title: Work and Business - Teacher's Topic for March]

Work and Business TEACHER'S Topic For Marcu (This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in March.) Our RESPONSIBILITY TO SUSTAIN CHURCH ORGANIZATIONS "No one can survey the history of modern progress—its philanthropy, its reforms, its industrial responsibility, its political democracy—without recognizing that the chief accession of moral force which these movements have received has come from the Christian religion." "The whole duty of man is not to enjoy God forever, but to descend with the grace of God to the help of man.

The Christian Church is not a place of refuge from the world, but a place of training for the world.

The Christian life is not a retreat from stormy winds and tides of woe, but an advance through them; not a hiding beneath the Mercy-seat, but a rising from one's seat for the sake of mercy." "The sanctified life is the serviceable life, and in that service finds its freedom." —Francis Greenwood Peabody.

"Not always on the mount may we Rapt in heavenly vision be; The mount for vision—but below The paths of daily duty go." Women, from the beginning, have been great inspirers, great teachers—they have been noted as most ardent supporters of the Church.

Since Church institutions are for the welfare of its members, women should avail themselves of the opportunities offered, and encourage others to benefit from active participation therein.

I. They should sustain Church institutions themselves: By attending meetings.

By speaking in their favor.

By encouraging their husbands and children to attend and uphold them. 4. By giving them financial backing. 5. By teaching their value in the home.; 6. By pointing out their benefits to friends and neighbors and encouraging them to attend. 7. By acting as teachers and officers when requested so to do.

II.

They should uphold those called to preside in the different associations, giving them their most ardent support.

They should not dwell upon the faults and failings of the officers, but note their strong points and commend their devotion to duty.

IIT.

They should tell the officers how much they appreciate their service.