Mrs. Annie D. Palmer By Amy Brown Lyman
THE passing of Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, supervisor of the Relief Society Welfare Department, is a distinct loss to social work in general and to the Relief Society in particular. Relief Society presidents and stake aids throughout the organization will miss her efficient help and sound advice which she so freely gave in assisting them to solve their problems. Those whom she has helped out of trouble will also miss her for the sympathetic and intelligent guidance she tendered to them.
Mrs. Palmer was born in Fairview, Sanpete County, March 16, 1864, of sturdy, frugal, intelligent Scandinavian parents who strove diligently to develop in their children the finest traits of character and to give them opportunity for spiritual and intellectual development. They were richly rewarded with a group of able children who have been leaders in educational and Church circles in their various communities. Her husband, Mr. Andrew W. Palmer, and the following brothers and sisters survive her: J. W. Christensen, Fairview; Dr. W. O. Christensen, Wellsville; Mrs. F. O. Hales, Salt Lake; Mrs. May Hammond, Provo; and Mrs. Carl Sundwall, Fairview.
FOR fifteen years Mrs. Palmer devoted herself exclusively to social work. She began as executive secretary of the Home Service Department, Utah County Chapter, American Red Cross. She served in that capacity during the World War, organizing the work throughout the county. She was complimented frequently by the Division office upon the excellent results she attained for the organization. After this work was over, she organized, under the direction of President Joseph B. Keeler of Utah Stake and Mrs. Inez Knight Allen, president of the Relief Society of this stake—in which organization Mrs. Palmer was first counselor, the Community Welfare Department of Provo, which coordinated all the family welfare work of the whole community and became a successful charity organization society. She left this work to become a member of the staff of the Welfare Department at Relief Society headquarters in Salt Lake City, where she served, with slight interruption, up to the time of her death, first as a case worker and later as supervisor.
At the time of the Castle Gate mine disaster, in 1924, when it was decided to employ a social worker to help with the distribution of the relief funds raised throughout the state, and with the supervision and rehabilitation of the broken and desolate homes bereft of fathers and breadwinners, Mrs. Palmer was selected for this work. She was a full time worker in the beginning while family plans were being made and budgets decided upon, and later when there was only follow-up work to do, she gave part-time. It has been most interesting to observe her at work with these families of various nationalities giving the type of service and supervision necessary in each case, and withal, holding the respect and confidence of them all.
MRS. ANNIE D. PALMER
They put their entire trust in her and regarded her as a wise adviser and real benefactor.
HAVING formerly been a teacher by profession, Mrs. Palmer has been a most able instructor in the social service institutes which have been featured throughout the Relief Society for the last fifteen years. She has assisted in this work in Utah, Idaho, California, and Arizona. She has attended a number of the sessions of the National Conference of Social Work and at the conference held in Memphis, Tennessee, in 1931, in the Children's Division, she had the opportunity of making a detailed report for the State of Utah of the educational work fostered by the Relief Society upon the subject, "State Assistance and Leadership in Developing Rural Case Work." As the Relief Society is the only agency in Utah carrying forward such work, the opportunity came for the Relief Society to represent the State, with Mrs. Palmer as speaker. The report was much appreciated and the Relief Society was highly commended for its pioneer effort in this direction. One of the distinctions she won in social work was full membership in the American Association of Social Workers, and she was an interesting and stimulating member of the Salt Lake Chapter.
MRS. PALMER had a broad conception and understanding of human welfare. She knew social work in the large. She did not confine her interest to case work with individual families, but was a consistent and effective worker for mass betterment and social reform. By laboring with individuals in all sorts of difficulties she was brought
525
face to face with the fact that much of the trouble affecting human beings is due to circumstances over which they have no control. A part of her effort, therefore, was used in preventive work and social reform.
MRS. PALMER excelled also as a teacher and writer. Being left a widow when little more than a girl, she prepared herself for the teaching profession and was one of the most able teachers the State has produced. As a writer of short stories, poems and plays, she was well and favorably known. For two consecutive years she won first prize in the Eliza R. Snow Relief Society Poem Contest,—in 1925 for her poem, "O White-Winged Gull," and in 1926 for "Where Hollyhocks Grew." She also won the first prize twice in the "Christmas News" story contest, with human interest stories based upon actual experience. She contributed articles also, from time to time, to the other Church magazines. Her plays, four in number, have been along welfare lines. "The House of Hope" was used at the Relief Society April conference in 1932, and "The Recompense" will be used throughout the Relief Society in the fall and winter stake conventions of this year. The latter very subtly portrays the carelessness and lack of feeling and responsibility which are sometimes manifested toward the aged by their children and other relatives. This play was the last of her writings and was finished only a few days before her final illness. Her last work in life was correcting the proof of this little play.
MRS. PALMER was a gifted woman with many assets—a
526
most versatile woman. But she was so modest and unassuming that people generally hardly realized it. She had a fine intellect—a mentality far above the average. She could think straight. Her mind was not cluttered up with disconnected odds and ends. She towered above her associates intellectually as she did physically. She had an ever ready sense of humor and a playfulness which relieved tension and stimulated social intercourse. Her character was above reproach. She was known for her rugged honesty, straight-forwardness and dependability. She was practical by nature and concrete by example. She was often blunt and frank in her speech, and never failed to give an honest opinion when it was asked for, regardless of results. She used no subterfuge and was never guilty of pretense or flattery of any sort. She had a heart as tender as a child's, but her sympathy did not get the better of her judgment, and in her ministrations she was thus often misunderstood by sentimental givers.
Annie D. Palmer was a real Christian and true Latter-day Saint. There was a spiritual touch in all her work. As a social worker and teacher she felt that each individual is a child of God and is entitled not only to His protection and care but also to the consideration of his fellow beings, and to an opportunity to make the most of his life. She was what might be called an orthodox Latter-day Saint, conforming strictly at all times to the standards and teachings of the gospel. In her young womanhood she performed a mission in far-off Samoa, and all through the years of her life she gave freely to her beloved Church of her time, effort and talent, and she was most generous in her financial contributions. Being practical by nature and concrete by example, she carried out in actual practice her ideals, and she literally lived up to the command, "All things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them."
The following letters from the Central Council of Salt Lake Social Agencies to the Welfare Department, and from the Salt Lake Chapter of the American Association of Social Workers to the family, indicate the esteem in which she was held in social welfare circles: "On behalf of the social service workers in the thirty-two public and private welfare organizations belonging to the Central Council of Social Agencies we express our profound sorrow at the passing of our beloved co-worker, Annie D. Palmer. Her integrity, her quiet tolerant manner, her mature judgment, her steadfastness in upholding the standards of her profession, have endeared her to the hearts of all those engaged with her in organizing the spirit of human helpfulness and administering to the wants of those in need. "While we realize that her loss will be most sorely felt by her family and by the Relief Society organization to which she gave her devoted and untiring efforts, we also know that in her service tto the Relief Society she has made a valuable and lasting contribution to social work in the community as a whole. When decisions are to be made in our committees and council the strength of her judgment will be keenly missed and we shall feel in full the seriousness of our loss. "Central Council of Social Agencies (Signed) Kate Williams, Chairman, Hugo B. Anderson, Secretary-treasurer.": MRS. ANNIE "The Salt Lake Chapter of the American Association of Social Workers extends to you an your hour of bereavement sincerest sympathy. "Mrs. Palmer was an honored and devoted member of our organization and stood for the highest ideals in our profession. In her was well developed every Christian virtue. Without ostentation, she went about literally feeding the hungry, clothing the naked, and doing good to the unfortunate. It hardly seems possible for one clothed in mortality to follow more accurately and faithfully the example. And teachings of the great Master than did she. Her D, PALMER 527 life and example are a heritage of richest quality which she leaves to her loved ones. "In social service circles she will be greatly missed and when the final history is written of the development of scientific social work in Utah her name will surely have a prominent place. "To her loved ones and all who are dear to her we extend our deepest sympathy. "Sincerely, Salt Lake Chapter, American Association of Social Workers, (Signed) Ada Taylor Graham, Secretary."