Sir Walter Scott By Nellie Schofield Thornton September 21st marks the hundredth anniversary of the death of Sir Walter Scott, the man who first made the world aware that Scotland existed. 'Before his time, Scotland was a small, remote country somewhere to the north of England; after his novels and poems were given to the world, Scotland became known to two hemispheres as the land of romance and of heroism. It is fitting that honor be given to Scott by his own countrymen, and by English speaking people the world over. In America perhaps, little is being done in a public way, but wherever Scottish societies exist, or wherever Scott's admirers gather in studious groups, some tribute will be paid to his genius and character. In Edinburgh, a city which he was pleased to call "mine own romantic town," a committee has been formed to arrange for the due celebration of the Scott centenary. The committee has planned a thoughtful and inspiring program, including: (1) A service in St. Giles' Cathedral, on September 21, the day of the centenary. (2) A ceremony in Dryburgh Abbey, where Scott was buried on. September 23. (3) A masque of scenes from the Waverley Novels, in Usher Hall, from June 20 to June 25, inclusive. (4) An exhibition of portraits and manuscripts in the National Gallery from July 1 to September 30. (5) A pageant by the school children in the Waverley Market from September 21 to-24, inclusive. (6) The publication of a commemorative volume, edited by Prof. J. C. Greierson. (7) The foundation of a lectureship on Scottish literature, in the Edinburgh University. Just a hundred years ago, Sir Walter was rounding out a busy life, respected, admired and famous for his writings. Since that time his popularity has suffered an eclipse; his books are no longer among the "best sellers." But "Ivanhoe" and "Kenilworth" are still required reading in high schools, and "The Lady of The Lake" and "Marmion" are studied as classics in English courses. It has become the fashion to depreciate Scott, and to emphasize his limitations. This reaction began with Carlyle: who charges Scott with being a mere entertainer, and Taine, who says he is the stage director of a masquerade. (The chorus of criticism has grown until today the most common complaint against him is that we have advanced beyond his kind of verisimilitude, and know better how novels should be constructed; in short, that he is old-fashioned. I suppose we must admit the charge; but there are really many lovely things that are old-fashioned, mothers, for instance, and love and romance. This centennial year will serve to re-awaken interest in Scott and his work. Already two new studies of his life have been published and a study of his contribution to the English language has been suggested. Undoubtedly there will be many new books as an outgrowth of the celebration in Scotland. The lectureship SIR WALTER SCOTT on Scottish literature in Edinburgh University should be productive of much interesting material. But, old-fashioned or not, Sir Walter has lived a hundred years—no mean tribute in these days of myriad books. Recently the London Observer, a newspaper with wide circulation, put forth a competitive question. It asked its readers to send in answers to this query: 'Which of the immortals would you choose for half an hour's walk?" After careful tabulation of results, these six headed the list of favorites, in the order named: Shakespeare, Dr. Johnson, Charles Lamb, Socrates, Sir Walter Scott, and Julius Caesar. To be one of six, with the whole world to choose from, is a distinct honor. Scott has been called the Great Magician, because of what he has done for this native land. He had many talents, and all of them were used for the benefit of his country. He taught the world that Scotland's history was full of heroism and romance. It is impossible to overestimate our indebtedness to him, for in traveling or in reading, we enjoy with ease what cost him years of labor to accomplish. Tourists in Scotland do not need guide-books so much as a fresh acquaintance with Scott's poems and novels. The characters and events of his stories have almost crowded out and supplanted the actual events of history. There are dozens of 'beautiful mountain lakes that delight whoever discovers them but which remain unknown to the world. Tiny Lake Katherine, or Loch Katrine, is visited by thousands because Scott made it the background for his Lady of The Lake. He gave the name to its smooth white beach; it is still the "Silver Strand" where Fitz-James 529 blew his bugle to call his scattered followers, and where he met Ellen, the Lady of the Lake. It is like traveling backward in Time to see a boat glide out from the oak trees on the shore, and to have a Scotch boatman volunteer to row you to Ellen's Isle, and there tell you of characters and places as if he were recounting history. One critic has said that Scott "has given to Scotland a citizenship of literature-scenery, monuments, cottages, characters of every age and condition"' which crowd forward as we mention their names. Perhaps there is "no country which has had its past and its present, its Highlands and its Lowlands, its peasants and its citizens, its heroes and its martyrs, the very stuff of its people and the genius of its soil recorded with the power and vitality, the humor and humanity with which they are recorded by Sir Walter Scott." It was by arousing enthusiasm for everything in Scotland that Scott increased patriotism among his own countrymen and claimed the interest of other countries. When Queen Victoria came to the throne as a young woman, she was a lover of the: Waverley Novels. Through them she learned to love Scotland; the older she grew the more she loved her northern subjects, and her Stuart ancestry. Her reaction to his work is similiar to the effect produced on thousands of other readers. In America, when pioneers were struggling to make new homes in a wilderness of hard work and danger, Scott was the favorite author. From our pioneer ancestry, we have learned to love his romances of court and castle. 'We are familiar with his works and so will enjoy again the story of his life. Sir Walter Scott came from a family who loved riding, sporting, 530 and fighting, a family that stood midway between the poverty of the peasants and the wealthy ease of the aristocracy. They belonged to what is known as the Border race. Sir Walter's father was a barrister, or as we should say a lawyer. His 'business sometimes suffered financially, because he advised his clients, first of all to be honest in their lawsuits. The mother was the daughter of a physician and had been better educated than most Scotch women of her day. She was a good story-teller and made the heroes of the past seem as real as living friends to her children. Sir Walter was the tenth of twelve children, the first six of whom died in infancy. His mother could not nurse him, and his first nurse had consumption, a fact which she concealed from his parents. When he was eighteen months old, he contracted a fever which cost him the full use of his right leg. This lameness and consequent ill-health led Dr. Rutherford, his mother's father to prescribe outdoor life for the child. Accordingly he lived with his grandparents at Sandy-Knowe until he was eight years old. Grandmother Scott's memory went back to the days of Border raids. What a treasure house of stories she must have been. Grandfather Scott, a hardy farmer and sheep-owner, insisted on vigorous exercise for the boy, thus helping him to become healthy and high spirited. When he entered school at the age of eight, his tastes were established and his mind well-filled with stories of real happenings in his own country. He was not a diligent student in required subjects though no labor was too great for him in collecting Border legends. He tells us in his autobiography that he had RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE bound up several volumes before he was ten. Scott attended school for about seven years and then entered his father's office to study law. His attitude at this time may be known from his own expression of "entering upon the dry and barren wilderness of forms and conveyances." He soon became known among his associates for his marvelous memory, his industry in purposes he loved, his delight in adventure and athletics, and his skill as a peace-maker. His desk instead of being covered with legal papers was filled with old chronicles and tales of adventure. Family and friends regarded him as a very brilliant young man who wasted his time rummaging old libraries and collecting useless old records instead of attending to his profession. Yet he did apply himself diligently to the study of law in spite of his lack of interest, and was admitted to the bar when he was twenty-one. Then followed several lean years when his income was less than $800 a year, yet he was the life of a circle of brilliant young men who gathered about him to hear his latest story, told as only he could tell it. Through the assistance of friends he received an appointment as sheriff of a small county, a position carrying a salary of $1500 a year and requiring but little of his time. A few years latex he was appointed clerk of a court in Edinburgh. These two positions relieved him of financial anxiety and enabled him to establish a home in the country. Best of all he was now able to give more attention to the work he loved. Speaking of himself and the legal profession, Scott says, "There was no great love between us at the beginning and it pleased Heaven to decrease it on further acquaintance." When Scott was twenty-six, he became engaged to Miss Carpenter, the daughter of a French royalist. She had come, after her father's death, to England, and was making a summer tour when Scott met her. They were married at Christmas tie and first set up their home in Edinburgh. Their married life seems full of tenderness and loyalty though perhaps Lady Scott did not have the depth of character necessary for the full appreciation of her husband's genius. They had four children, two sons and two daughters who lived to maturity. Perhaps Scott himself best summarizes this phase of his life. In a letter to a friend he says; "Mrs. Scott's match and mine was of our own making and proceeded from the most sincere affection on both sides, which has rather increased than diminished during 12 years marriage. But it is something short of love in all its forms, which I suspect people feel only once in their lives; folks who have been nearly drowned rarely venture a second time out of their depth." Scott's literary work began with the translation of popular German ballads and this led him naturally into the romantic legends of his own land. In 1802-03 he published three volumes of "The Minstrelsy of the Scottish Border,' the material of which he had been collecting for years. Whenever he found ballads or legends incomplete he patched them with his own words and invented new ones to suit the scene or the character. To piece out the third volume he began to write "The Lay of the Last Minstrel," which soon grew too long to be included and was published separately. Its immediate success, followed by the enthusiasm which greeted “Marmion” WALTER SCOTT 531 and the "Lady of the Lake," gave Scott the resolution to abandon the law, in which he had won only scant success, and devote himself wholly to literature, though he still believed that writing "should be a staff, not a crutch." With the publication of these poems, Scott entered into partnership with James Ballantyne, a former school mate. It seemed a most reasonable thing to do; by being a silent partner in a printing business, and by using his inexhaustible store of romantic material, he hoped to make more money than the ordinary author. It is quite possible that he might have succeeded had that been the end of his ventures, but very soon he joined the firm of John Ballantyne and Co., publishers and book sellers. All three men were of a speculative turn of mind, and began publishing all sorts of books 'in which they were interested but for which the public cared 'but little. When bankruptcy threatened, Scott discovered a new source of wealth. While hunting out some fishing tackle, one day, he came across an unfinished story that he had written nine years before. He read it with interest, finished it within three weeks, and published it anonymously under the title, "Waverley." The success of this first novel, and the wealth that came from its great sales stabilized the printing and publishing business for a time. Six more novels appeared within the next four years and were sold as fast as they could be printed. In Great Britian, Europe, and America these were the books of the hour. With this crisis over, Scott again began spending money before it was earned. He indulged himself in realizing his favorite dream of buying land and establishing a permanent RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ABBOTSFORD home befitting a Scotch laird. This farm, at first consisting of probably a hundred acres, grew to include nearly a thousand. The place, situated on the banks of the Tweed, was overgrown and neglected, but Scott could see the possibility of making it a beautiful estate. Scott named it Abbotsford because it was near a ford used by the abbots from Melrose Abbey. The estate was in the heart of a country filled with historic associations which Scott has preserved for us and enriched by adding more from his own life. Abbotsford became his delight. He spent his life and his wealth enlarging and beautifying his home. The cottage became a mansion and the mansion grew to a castle. He planted a young forest of trees, "he made landscape gardens,” he used every natural advantage of river and hillside, and like the characters in his novels, took delight in his beautiful theatrical setting. He kept numerous horses and dogs for his own pleasure and that of his friends. He was surrounded by devoted servants and loved and honored by the peasants as though he were lord of a feudal castle. His wide circle of friends was welcomed for weeks at a time to all his big heart and home could offer. "In 1820 he was made a baronet and the title, Sir Walter, came nearer to turning his honest head than had all his literary success." For twenty years, he wrote steadily producing on an average two novels a year, besides writing "Tales of A Grandfather," a treatise on witchcraft, the biographies of Dryden and of Swift, the life of Napoleon in nine volumes, and numerous articles for current magazines. Such an amount of literary work would have been impossible had Scott been unprepared for it, but all his life he had been interested in gathering legends, history, ballads and traditions and now his marvelous memory served him better than an encyclopedia. With the year 1826 came the financial crash, and the Ballantyne business failed. Though Scott was a silent partner he assumed the debt SIR WALTER SCOTT as a personal one and at the age of fifty-five with his youthful vigor gone and his best work done, he set himself the task of paying back half a million dollars. He refused to take advantage of the bankruptcy laws, but with pride and courage seldom equalled, bought out new editions of previous novels and wrote new ones. At the end of five years he had paid nearly half of the debt, but his health was rapidly failing. The British government, mindful of his great contributions to the nation placed a naval vessel at his disposal, with the hope that rest and change would restore him. He enjoyed Italy but was most happy to get back to Abbotsford, where he died at the age of 61. In contemplating his death, he had written in his diary, "I care not, if I leave my name unstained and my family settled." That wish was gratified but the debt was still unpaid. However soon after his death, with life insurance policies, and the sale of copyrights, the debt was fully paid and the home at Abbotsford left clear. And now a hundred years have passed. Novels have changed but Scott has outlived the best sellers. To-day we remember his heroic work to clear himself of debt. We can look with unprejudiced eyes at the result of his work. According to Dr. Long, whose judgment of English Literature is usually accepted, Scott accomplished four noteworthy things. (1) He created the historical novel, and novelists of England and other countries acknowledge their indebtedness to him. (2) His novels deal with big movements and public interests rather than with private affairs. Historical parties such as Crusaders, Cavaliers, Roundheads, Papists, Fashions in poetry and 533 Jews, Gypsies and Rebels crowd through his pages enlisting the sympathy or scorn of his readers. In the scope of his stories covering over six centuries of time, Scott outranks other English novelists. (3) He was the first to make the scene an essential part of the story. He loved the scenes he portrayed and made them as accurate as if he were writing a guide-book. "No imagination can long retain its freshness," he said to a friend, "without a constant and minute study of nature." So, if a hero gallops twenty miles in a certain time we may be sure that Scott first galloped that distance himself. His backgrounds seem made for the action, as though one could hardly exist without the others. "Scott's chief claim to greatness lies in the fact that he was the first novelist to re-create the past." Carlyle admits that he taught historians "that bygone ages were actually filled with living men and women." Not only the past but all Scotland is presented to us with the vividness of real life. Just as the clinging ivy covers with new beauty the ruins of once loved churches and castles, so Scott by the magic touch of his genius, clothes with mellowness and beauty the historical romances of six centuries. He loved the ivy and wove it into most of his novels to cover with its glossy green mantle the castles, manor-houses, lowlier habitations, and even the "Harp of The North." The ivy should be his symbol and emblem. If Scott interpreted so truly the people of his own country, he must interpret also some of the fundamental characteristics of humanity, making his work universal. He lays emphasis upon the common elemental 534 RELIEF qualities of human nature rather than upon eccentricities. "His ideals are lofty and pure; his heroes brave and strong, not exempt from human infirmities but devoted to noble ends. His heroines whom he frankly asks you to admire are womenly and true. No woman of gentle birth, with one exception, marries beneath her; the line between gentle folk and the rest of creation is kindly, quietly, but SOCIETY MAGAZINE firmly drawn." his philosophy. Through the changes of three generations he has proclaimed that 'loyalty, chivalry, obedience, love not silver, are the glory of a man or a nation." In this centennial year he will be quoted in every phase of Nature arfd in every condition of human life as friends remember or discover the charms of his loved Scotland.