Lesson Department (First Week in November) Theology and Testimony DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS History or THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS 1. The revelations contained in the book of Doctrine and Covenants were received during the years 18231847. There are 136 in all, including a declaration and belief regarding governments and laws (Section 134), also an account of the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum Smith (Section 135). The first revelation (Section 2) contains the words of the angel Moroni spoken to Joseph Smith on the night of September 21, 1823. The last revelation (Section 136) was given through Brigham Young at Winter Quarters, January 14, 1847, and comprises a plan of organization for migration to the 'West, also admonitions to righteous living. Roughly one-sixth of the revelations were received before the Church was organized, one-half during the next three years, and the others following. 2. Compilation of the Revelations. As early as July, 1830, shortly after the revelation contained in Section 26 had been given, when the Church was only three months old, the Prophet began to arrange the revelations thus far received apparently for publication. Here are his words: "I began to arrange and copy the revelations, which we had received from time to time; in which I was assisted by John Whitmer, who now resided with me. Whilst thus employed in the work appointed me by my Heavenly Father, I received," etc. (History of the Church, Vol. 1, p. 104) 3. Joseph's Implicit Confidence in the Revelations. Joseph Smith evidently never entertained doubt concerning the divinity of the revelations he had obtained for the guidance of the Church. On one occasion, for example, he received a letter from Oliver Cowdery stating that he had discovered an error in one of the commandments, also calling upon him "in the name of God to erase those words, that no priestcraft be amongst us." Joseph's attitude is well explained in the following: "I immediately wrote to him a reply, in which I asked him by what authority he took upon him to command me to alter or erase, to add to or diminish from, a revelation or commandment from Almighty God. A few days afterwards I visited him and Mr. Whitmer's family, when I found the family in general of his opinion concerning the words above quoted [Section 20, latter part of verse 37], and it was not without both labor and perseverance that I could prevail with any of them to reason calmly on the subject. However, Christian Whitmer at length became convinced that the sentence was reasonable, and according to Scripture; and finally, with his assistance, I succeeded in bringing not only the Whitmer family, but also Oliver Cowdery to acknowledge that they had been in error, and that the sentence in dispute was in accordance with the rest of the commandment. And thus was this error rooted out, which having its rise in 548 presumption and rash judgment was the more particularly calculated (when once fairly understood) to teach each and all of us the necessity of humility and meekness before the Lord, that He might teach us of His ways, that we might walk in His paths, and live by every word that proceedeth forth from His mouth." (History of 'the Church, Vol. 1, p. 105). 4. Special Conference at Hiram, Ohio. Slightly more than a year after the Prophet began arranging the revelations, a special conference was called at Hiram, Ohio, November 1, 1831, for the purpose of considering the matter of their publication. (History of the Church, Vol. 1, pp. 221-222). At this time the revelation contained in Section 1, designated 'by the Lord as the "preface unto the book of my commandments,? was received, also Section 133, called the "appendix." As a result of the deliberation of the conference it was decided to 'publish ten thousand, 'copies of the Book of Commandments; that if possible Joseph Smith should' have the revelations arranged by the fifteenth of November (1831); that Oliver Cowdery and John Whitmer should carry the revelations to Missouri for printing, and that Joseph Smith, Martin Harris, Oliver Cowdery, and John Whitmer be appointed as stewards over the revelations. If the income was more than was needed for their necessities, the surplus was to be consecrated unto the inhabitants of Zion ("D. And C." 70.) At this conference many of the leaders bore testimony of the divinity of the revelations and shortly thereafter Joseph Smith dedicated them to the service of God. (History of the Church, Vol. 1, p. 234). 5. Concerning the subsequent RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE preparation of the revelations and their value to mankind, Joseph Smith said: "My time was occupied closely in reviewing the commandments and sitting in conference, for nearly two weeks; for from the first to the twelfth of November we held four special conferences. In the last which was held at Brother Johnson's at Hiram, after deliberate consideration, in consequence of the book of revelations, now to be printed, being the foundation of the Church in these last days, and a benefit to the world, showing that the keys of the mysteries of the kingdom of our Savior are again entrusted to man; and the riches of eternity within the compass of those who are willing to live by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God?therefore the conference voted that they prize the revelations to be worth to the Church the riches of the whole earth, speaking temporally. The great benefits to the world which result from the Book of Mormon and the revelations, which the Lord has seen fit in His infinite wisdom to grant unto us for our salvation, and for the salvation of all that will believe, were duly appreciated." (History of the Church, Vol. 1, pp. 235236. ) 6. The Council at Independence, Missouri. On the first of May, 1832, at a general council of the Church held at Independence, Missouri, "It was ordered that three thousand copies of the Book of Commandments be printed in the first edition; that Willian W. Phelps, Oliver Cowdery, and John Whitmer be appointed to review and prepare such revelations for the press as shall be deemed proper (for publication, and print them as soon as possible at Independence, LESSON DEPARTMENT Missouri." (History of the Church, Vol..1, p. 270), The book was to be published by W. W. Phelps and Company. 7. It appears that the work of setting up and printing the Book of Commandments must have proceeded rather slowly, for more than a year after the council was held Joseph wrote to W. W. Phelps under date of June 25, 1833, as follows: "First, as respects getting the Book of Commandments bound, we think it not necessary. They will be sold well without binding, and there is no bookbinder to be had that we know of, nor are there materials to be had for binding, without keeping the books too long from circulation." (History of the Church, Vol. 1, p. 362). 8. In another letter dated July 2, 1833, Joseph requested that a box of the Book of Commandments be sent to Newel K. Whitney and Company of Kirtland, Ohio, which seemingly indicates that the books were practically ready for distribution. (History of the Church, Vol. 2, p. 369). 9. Destruction of the Printing Establishment. The books however were never permitted to appear, for on the night of July 20, 1833, a mob of three to five hundred Missouri ruffians. Destroyed the printing establishment together with its contents, save only a few copies of some of the forms of the unfinished book. (History of the 'Church, Vol. 1, pp. 390, 411, 412). 10, High. Council Meeting at Kirtland, Ohio. Notwithstanding this calamity, the courageous Saints soon established another ''printing house, this time at Kirtland, Ohio, and at a High Council meeting held September 24, 1834, decided again to publish the revelations. To over549 see this work a committee was appointed consisting of the following: Joseph Smith, Oliver Cowdery, Sidney Rigdon, and Frederick G. Williams. (History of the 'Church, Vol. 2, p. 165). Later this committee was assisted by W. W. Phelps. (p. 227). 11. Publication of the Book. Nearly one year later, August 17, 1835, this committee reported the completion of its labors to a General Assembly of the Church at Kirtland, Ohio. 'The book here appeared for the first time under the name Doctrine and Covenants.. The importance of the occasion warrants a careful consideration of the proceedings. The purpose of the conference is well set out in the following excerpt of the minutes. (See History of the Church, Vol. 2, pp. 243-246). 12, Presentation for Action by the Church. "A general assembly of the Church of Latter-day Saints was held at Kirtland on the 17th day of August, 1835, to take into consideration the labors of a committee appointed by a general assembly of the Church on the 24th of September, 1834, for the purpose of arranging the items of the doctrine of Jesus Christ for the government of the Church. The names of the committee were: Joseph Smith, Jun., Sidney Rigdon, Oliver Cowdery and Frederick G. Williams, who having finished said book according to the instructions given them, deem it necessary to call a general assembly of the Church to see whether the book be approved or not by the authorities of the Church; that it may, if approved, become a law and a rule of faith and practice to the Church.", 13, Presidents Joseph Smith and Frederick G. Williams were absent 550 at the time, visiting the Saints in Michigan. After the members of the Priesthood were stranged in their various groups, "President Cowdery arose and introduced the 'Book of Doctrine and Covenants of the Church of the Latter-day Saints' in behalf of the committee. He was followed by President Rigdon, who explained the manner by which they intended to obtain the voice of the assembly for or against said book." 14. Acceptance by the Church. Following this, a considerable number of the presiding brethren bore testimony to the truth of the revelations, and each quorum or distinctive body of the Priesthood, by separate vote, accepted the revelations in the book of Doctrine and Covenants. Similiar action was taken by the entire assembly. 15. Testimony of the Twelve Apostles. William W. Phelps read the written testimony of the Twelve, as follows: TESTIMONY OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES TO THE TRUTH OF THE Book OF DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS "The testimony of the Witnesses to the Book of the Lord's Commandments, which commandments He gave to His Church through Joseph Smith, Jun., who was appointed, by the voice of the Church, for this purpose., "We therefore feel willing to bear testimony to all the world of mankind, to every creature upon the face of all the earth, that the Lord has borne record to our souls, through the Holy Ghost shed forth upon us, that these Commandments were given by inspiration of God, and are profitable for all men, and are verily true. We give this testimony unto the world, the Lord being our helper RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE er; and it is through the grace of God the Father, and His Son Jesus Christ, that we are permitted to have this privilege of bearing this testimony unto the world, in the which we rejoice exceedingly, praying the Lord always that the children of men may be profited thereby." Thomas B. Marsh David W. Patten Brigham Young Heber C. Kimball Orson Hyde William E. McLellin Parley P. Pratt Luke S. Johnson William Smith Orson Pratt John F. Boynton Lyman E. Johnson 16. Title Page to the First Edition. Following is the title page of the first edition of the Doctrine and Covenants: DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS of THE CHURCH OF LATTERDAY SAINTS: Carefully Selected From the Revelations of God, and compiled by Joseph Smith, Junior, Oliver Cowdery, Sidney Rigdon, Frederick G. Williams, (Presiding Elders of said Church) Proprietors Kirtland, Ohio, Printed by F. 'G. Williams & Co., For the Proprietors. 1835. (See History of the Church, Vol. 2, p. 250). 17. Later Editions, and Translations. Several later editions have been published both in the United LESSON DEPARTMENT States and abroad. The book was first issued, as divided into chapters and verses by Orson Pratt, in 1876. It appeared in 1879 with foot-notes, and in double-column pages, with revised foot-note references and index, in 1921. It has been translated into several foreign languages, including the Welsh, (Danish, German, Swedish,: Dutch, Maori, French. 18. The following appears on the Introductory page of the current 551 edition: "Certain lessons, entitled 'Lessons on Faith,' which were bound with the Doctrine and Covenants in some of its former issues, are not included in this edition. These lessons were prepared for use in the School of the Elders, conducted in Kirtland, Ohio, during the winter of 1834-1835; but they were never presented to nor accepted by the Church as being other than theological lectures or lessons." Teachers' Topic BEATITUDES Aim: To enable us to more fully appreciate the Beatitudes and to apply their beautiful truths to our daily lives. "Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted."?Matthew 5:4. "Mourning is a quality of genuine repentance for the wrongs we have done, and failure to do the good we might have done, a heart-felt sorrow for our lack of understanding and generosity." The sorrows which God permits, if received with humility, refine and ennoble the character and elevate it into closer union with Him. "Come unto me, all ye that are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.". Those people shall be made happy who are burdened, and are 'having a hard time, for they shall learn the real comfort of the Gospel. Those who have been called upon to mourn, are usually the ones who later are most keenly aware of their blessings. Mourning which follows poverty of spirit, gives tenderness of conscience, sorrow for wrong doing, and a disposition to sympathize in the troubles of others. Those who mourn for the sorrows or sins of others, and who pray earnestly for them, are comforted with the feeling of peace and hope, just as truly as when they are repentant for their own short-comings. Sorrow has a chastening effect, and gives a better and broader understanding and sympathy for others who mourn. What a feeling of peace and assurance comes with this promise of comfort! This means relief, consolation or strengthing aid. 'Faith in this promise should dispel harassing fears? Psalms 34:4. Luke 7:50. "Be not afraid, only believe." Mark 5:36. "Our success is measured by the supremacy of faith over fear. Faith is the panacea for fear. If a man has faith, and he is doing his best, he feels that whatever comes, is for the purpose of developing him and making him stronger. The greatest joy comes from overcoming difficulties." It is the divine plan for developing human character. To illustrate, consider the experiences 552 of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Of course all these promises are dependent upon our faithfulness. "God requires of those who would serve Him, all diligence and willingness to profit by every resource they can command." Because, "Faith without works is dead," appropriate activity and service must follow faithfulness. Our Church furnishes ample opportunity for the working out of this great RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE pedagogical truth, which the Master so beautifully exemplified during His ministry. "Act, act in the living present, Heart within, and God o'head." References: Psalms 23:4; Isaiah 66:13; II Corinthians 1:4; Revelations 21:4; Book of Mormon, Moroni 7:26; Doctrine and Covenants, Section 20:29, Literature (3rd Week in November) THE DELIGHT OF GREAT Books Matory's "Le Morte D'ARTHUR Man likes his stories to be frankly a yarn.? Erskine. "Le Morte D'Arthur" is one of those priceless volumes in which, through the genius of one man, the best stories which have delighted the world for hundreds of years are gathered up and made available for posterity. This great treasure-house of the stories of King Arthur is to the English race what the stories of Ulysses and Aeneas were to the Greeks and Latins, a great national inheritance. The high nobility, dauntless courage, and gentle humility of Arthur and his knights have had a great effect in molding the character of the English speaking peoples. The Arthurian Legends One lof the most. Fascinating stories of all literature is the record of the growth of King Arthur in universality. All that history can tell us of this great literary character is that in the fifth century he was the chieftain of a Celtic Kingdom in Cornwall. To the primitive Celts, a wild freedom loving people with a system of tribal government, a religion, and an underlying ideal of the sacredness of family life, Arthur was an unifying influence bringing peace out of chaos and goodwill out of savage tribal rivalry. Tradition has preserved this influence. The stories grew into a great legendary cycle breathing a personality rather than deeds. From Cornwall the story of Arthur crossed Wales, and thence to Brittany being retold in camp, court, and cloister. That Arthur existed has been questioned by European continental critics, but the fact remains that by the twelfth century the name of Arthur had come to stand for an ideal of royalty, knightliness, and virtue alike in England, France and Germany. During the earlier Middle Ages the pursuit of literature was confined to bards and minstrels who wandered through the length and breadth of the land. In this atmosphere of music and chivalry the old hero tales grew into romances and grouped themselves around great romantic figures. In France the romances of Merlin, Tristan and Iseult, and Lancelot were added to the Arthurian tales. In England the cycle gradually took on a religious tone by the addition of the Grail legends, the various romances which formed later the groundwork of the great music dramas of Wagner. This romantic material was recorded first in England by Geoffrey of Monmouth, the famous historian of the twelfth century. Later a poet priest, Layamon, incorporated into his poem "Brut" this shadowy romantic material, creating a hero for all time?Arthur, the ideal of English chivalry. It remained for Sir Thomas Malory to gather all the scattered material of the medieval romances in both French and English connected with Arthur, and weave it into a single narrative, a gorgeous tapestry unfolding the whole realm of Arthurian legend and story in rich and fascinating colors.
Sir Thomas Malory
Sir Thomas Malory's "Le Morte D'Arthur" is one of the golden literary products of the fifteenth century. Of the author of "Le Morte D'Arthur" little is known. The ancestors of Malory had been lords of Draughton in Northamptonshire as early as 1267. His father, John Malory, was knight of the Shire of Warwick in the Parliament of 1413. The birth and circumstances of Sir Thomas Malory appear, so far as we can discover them, to fit well with his authorship of this work. He belonged to that class to whom the Arthurian stories directly appealed; he was a gentleman of an ancient house and a soldier. It is not to be doubted, then, that Sir Thomas received a gentleman's education. That he should learn to read and write French, as well as speak it, was a matter of course. He lived in the Middle Ages and breathed their very spirit into his great book of romances which was issued from the printing press of William Caxton in 1485 with the following illuminating preface by the editor:
"To the intent that noble men may see and learn the noble acts of chivalry, the gentle and virtuous deeds that some knights used in those days by which they came to honor and how they that were vicious were punished and oft put to shame and rebuke."
"Le Morte D'Arthur" has held a remarkable place among the notable books of the past four hundred years. In this beautiful prose classic the author did not invent new tales; he translated old tales with a sense of beauty, blending chivalry with Christianity, and clothing worldly adventure with spiritual inspiration. In the "Le Morte D'Arthur" poets, painters, and composers have found many of their noblest themes?Spencer, Tennyson, Morris, Rossetti, Watts, Burne-Jones, Wagner. In the field of English art the highways lead to Camelot. No other work in any literature has called into being such a library of poetry. If Malory had not brought together the Arthurian tales, English literature might have been deprived of two of its great masterpieces: Edmund Spenser's "Faerie Queene," Alfred Tennyson's "The Idylls of the King."
Yet "Le Morte D'Arthur" is far more than great source book, it is in itself a great story, and holds its high place in literature by its own literary merits. Malory's style has the simplicity of genius; it is always perfectly natural. There are modern readers who prefer this simple natural style, because it is a transparent medium through which we see the writer's thoughts. In this great prose classic the author made a great contribution to literature by opening up new paths, by showing men to whom the gift of song was denied the pattern of a rich and beautiful prose.
Le Morte D'Arthur?Synopsis
1. How Arthur Became King: Long years ago a mighty prince, Uther-pendragon ruled over Britain. The king loved Igrayne, the winsome wife of Gorlois, the warrior lord of Tyntagil. From grief and disappointment Uther fell sick. A famous magician, Merlin, hearing of the king's grief came and offered his aid. "Only promise to give me, at his birth, the son that shall be born to thee, and thou shalt have thy heart's desire," requested Merlin. The king agreed. Uther and Gorlois meet in battle, Gorlois is killed, and Uther takes the fair Igrayne for his wife. When the prince is born, the king commanded that he should be christened, Arthur, and then delivered to Merlin. After the death of Uther grave disputes arose in Britain. The nobles, not knowing of Arthur, each struggled to become king by making war on his neighbors. The land went to wrack and ruin under the warring lords. Merlin had taken the child Arthur to protect him from just this chaos. The child had been taken to Sir Ector to bring up with his son Kay. After many years of strife Merlin counselled the Archbishop of Canterbury to call the warring lords together in the great cathedral at London; "for to see a great marvel by which it shall be made clear to all men who is the lawful king of Britain." The barons and knights came as the Archbishop called, to keep the feast of Christmas. When they had prayed to heaven to send peace to the realm, they witnessed a strange scene. In the open space before them stood a great stone into which a sword was thrust. The words on the stone were, "Whoso can draw forth this sword is rightful King of Britain born." Each noble clamored to be allowed to try to remove the sword. The archbishop sent messengers through all the land announcing that the great challenge should be met at Easter time when each knight could adventure. Among those who rode to London were Sir Ector, his son, Sir Kay, and the young Arthur. When they were riding to the jousts, Sir Kay discovered that he had forgotten his sword. Arthur, fearing lest his brother should lose his chance of gaining glory in the tournament, offered to return for the sword. Passing the cathedral, he saw the sword in the stone. He seized the hilt and instantly it yielded. Not knowing of the marvel or of its significance, he hurried after Sir Kay and handed him the sword. Sir Ector recognized the sword and paid homage to Arthur, his king. When the archbishop was notified, he called the knights together and bade Arthur thrust back the sword and draw it forth again. The knights murmured because they had been deprived of their attempts. So at the word of the archbishop again the sword was replaced. Each man tried in turn to draw the sword forth, and failed. Then, again, Arthur drew forth the sword. Immediately arose the cry, Arthur is King!
2. The Round Table: The first task of King Arthur was to subdue the rebel lords who refused to acknowledge their king. Eleven great nobles united under Lot of Orkney, the husband of Bellicent, daughter of Gorlois. Upon Merlin's advice Arthur sought aid from Bans and Bars, two kings of Gaul. In a great battle the rebels were defeated. Arthur now set to work to restore order throughout Britain. He governed by kindness, removing the oppressor and protecting the weak and defenseless. The peasant now plowed his fields in safety, and peace reigned. Among the chieftains Arthur had helped to free his domain from rebels was Leodegrance of Camilard. Leodegrance had a fair daughter, Guenevere; and when Arthur saw her "he gave her all his love." So the king sent his knights to Leodegrance to ask him for his daughter. With great pomp the princess was conducted to Canterbury and wedded to Arthur. On the day of his marriage Arthur founded the Order of the Round Table. The table had been made for King Uther. After the king's death, Leodegrance had possessed it. Now it was returned to its rightful owner, Arthur. One hundred and fifty knights might sit around it. At the great feast of Pentecost, Arthur ordained 128 knights, each promising in his vows of knighthood: to obey the king; to show mercy to all who asked it; to defend the weak; and ask for no worldly gain; to fight in no wrongful cause.
The fame of this symbol of Christian ideals, the Round Table, will endure for all time.
3. The Sword Excalibur: Merlin, the magician, was ever Arthur's servant. He brought him to his rights of king of Britain, and some say that Camelot, the castle stronghold with its splendid halls where Arthur would gather with his knights was Merlin's gift. As the king and Merlin rode together one day the king said, "I have no sword." Merlin answered, "Near by is a sword that shall be yours." As they came to a lake fair and broad, King Arthur saw in the midst of the lake an arm clothed in white samite that held a fair sword in the hand. A damsel, the Lady of the Lake, came forward and saluted Arthur. "Damsel," said the king, "I have no sword. I would that sword, the arm holdeth, were mine." The Lady of the Lake answered, "Sir King, that sword shall be yours, if ye will give me a gift when I ask it." The king assented and went out in a barge to get the sword and scabbard. The king liked the sword passing well, but Merlin told him to guard well the scabbard "for while ye have the scabbard upon you ye shall lose no blood." And Arthur kept the sword Excalibur with him all his days.
"My time lieth fast," said King Arthur to Sir Bedivere after his last great battle, "therefore take thou Excalibur, my good sword, I charge thee, throw my sword into the lake, then return and tell me what thou saw." Sir Bedivere goes to do the king's bidding, but lured by its beauty hides the sword and returns. A second time Arthur sends Bedivere to return the sword to the lake, again Bedivere yields to its beauty, hides it, and returns. Again Arthur sends Bedivere with the sword, threatening to slay him if he fails. As Bedivere throws the sword there came an arm clothed in mystic samite and took the sword.
Arthur now requests Sir Bedivere to bear him to the margin of the lake. At the shore is a barge in which sit three black-robed queens. With lamentation they take Arthur tenderly on their laps. And so the king passes to the vale of Avilion where the wounded are healed and the old made young.
4. The Quest of the Holy Grail: It was the custom of King Arthur to ordain new knights each Feast of Pentecost. As yet no knight had claimed the seat named by Merlin the Siege Perilous. During the great feast a nun came to Arthur's court requesting that Sir Launcelot accompany her to a nunnery in the forest. There twelve nuns with a beautiful youth met them. "Sir," said the nuns, "we have brought up this child in our midst, now he has grown to manhood, we pray you make him a knight." Launcelot knighted Galahad and returned to Camelot. During the Feast of Pentecost, while the knights were seated about the Round Table an aged man clad in white, entered the hall, followed by a young knight in red armor. Bowing low to the king the old man said. "Sir, I bring you a young knight of the house and lineage of Joseph of Arimathea and through him shall great glory be won." When the young knight had saluted the king, the old man led him to the Siege Perilous. The knight knew that this was he that should achieve the Holy Grail. After four days Sir Galahad in his quest reached an abbey where he received a beautiful shield "whiter than snow save for a blood-red cross." Traveling on guided in his quest he came to the castle of King Pelles. As all were seated "the hall was filled with a great light and the holy vessel appeared covered in white samite." To the surprised knights came a voice saying, "You, my chosen knights, have seen the holy vessel dimly. Continue your journey to the city of Sarras and there the perfect vision shall be yours." In the city of Sarras had dwelt Joseph of Arimathea teaching the true faith carrying with him always the Holy Grail, the dish from which Jesus had eaten the Last Supper. Thus Sir Galahad with two other knights came to Sarras in far Babylon. As the knights were praying in the ancient chapel of Sarras, in vision they saw Joseph of Arimathea who spoke saying, "I am come to show you the perfect vision of the Holy Grail." Then appeared uncovered in a great radiance the Holy Grail. The two knights, Sir Bars and Sir Percivale, recovered from the vision. "Then they went to Sir Galahad where he still knelt in prayer, and behold he was dead; for it had been with him as he had prayed; in the moment when he had seen the vision, his soul had gone back to God.?So Sir Galahad was buried in that far city?Sir Percivale put off his arms, and taking the habit of a monk lived a holy life?Great was the rejoicing of Arthur and his knights when Sir Bars returned?The king caused the wisest men of the land to write in the great books this Quest of the Holy Grail that the fame of it should endure unto all time."?Malory.
Suggestions for Study:
A. Materials
1. The Delight of Great Books......................Erskine
2. Le Morte D'Arthur..............................Malory
3. Mabinogion
4. The Idylls of the King..........................Tennyson
5. King Arthur Stories............................Pyle
6. Launcelot (Poem)...............................Robison
B. Projects
1. The Holy Grail Legend
2. The Story of Lohengrin.........................Wagner
3. The Lady of Shallot............................Tennyson
4. The Vision of Sir Launfal......................Selection
5. Famous Paintings, e. g., Sir Galahad, The Holy Grail.
6. Musical selections from Lohengrin.
C. Method
It matters little whether "Le Morte D'Arthur," "The Idylls of the King," or the simple "King Arthur Stories" be used. By using musical selections from "Lohengrin" and readings from "The Vision of Sir Launfal" or "The Lady of Shallot" for the preliminary program, a delightful setting for the lesson can be obtained.
Social Service (Fourth Week in November)
CONDUCT CONTROL PROBLEMS RELATED TO CHILD HEALTH AND PROTECTION
Lesson II. COOPERATIVE ACTION IN THE INTEREST OF CHILDREN IN AMERICA.
This is essentially an appreciation lesson. Teachers should strive to have the class members feel the importance of custom in civilization both in stabilizing life and oftentimes slowing up needed changes. To change the folkways cooperation is necessary. The procedure should be essentially a socialized discussion group, reading and talking together. The instructor should be able to clarify and illustrate by studying the supplementary material the meaning of "mores." Class members should make the suggested list of customs in child care and should be willing to analyze carefully the method by means of which these customs were learned as indicated in the supplementary material. The facts regarding the conferences and the Children's Bureau are for purposes of historical appreciation and reference. They are not to be memorized. The instructor may assign for topical report by members of the class or may lecture to the class on the following supplementary material given in the report of "The White House Conference 1930."
President Hoover's statement of purpose on pages 6-7. Secretary Wilbur's explanation of the need for cooperation between individuals and the group activities of the community, pages 17-18. James J. Davis' summary of work done during the last twenty years, pages 28-30. Miss Van Rensselaer's analysis of the feeling among parents that guided change is necessary, pages 36 to 37; and her challenge to go from "precept to practice," page 40.
Supplementary Material:
"At every turn we find new evidence that the 'mores' can make anything right." (1. Sumner: Folkways. P. 521). Of the term "mores" the author says:
"I mean by it the popular usages and traditions, when they include a judgment that they are conducive to societal welfare, and when they exert a coercion on the individual to conform to them, although they are not coordinated by any authority." (2. Sumner: Folkways, P. 11).
Assignments: Each American community has "folkways" in the caring for children. Members of each class studying this lesson should make a list of the ways common among them of performing the ordinary duties in caring for children. Each class member should then prepare a statement showing clearly how she learned to do the way she actually in practice does one, or more of these common place things. For example, how did she learn to feed the baby the first time.
Students of sociology tell us that these customs or habits have developed largely without conscious planning. Their perpetuation has been largely a process of traditional passing from one generation to another and that they tend to persist even in the presence of critics. This seems to be especially true in cases where the attempts to modify practice are made by individuals acting more or less alone. People in general may learn from experts in many lines the new facts discovered and new modes of life that are recommended but folkways seem to continue on. In "Middletown" customs were found to be entrenched in this way. The following description of one parent's attitude illustrates this:
"You see other people being more lenient and you think perhaps that it is the best way, but you are afraid to do anything very different from what your mother did for fear you may leave out something essential or do something wrong. I would give anything to know what is wisest, but I don't know what to do." (3. Middletown, p. 143).
Parents do appreciate the fact that the general plan of the social phases of life is changing. With this consciousness comes a desire to learn. They hope that such learning will tend to modify custom so that the old ideals of social relations may be maintained in the new environment. It is realized that as the "mores" change the ideals of what is good change also. But eagerness to change indicates a step forward from the unconscious establishment of customs as seen in the past. Lind writes:
"One cannot talk with Middletown mothers without being continually impressed by the eagerness of many to lay hold of every available resource for help in training their children: one business class mother took a course in the Montessori method in a near-by city before the birth of her daughter; another reads regularly the pamphlets of the Massachusetts Society for Mental Hygiene and such books as 'A System of Character Training for Children'; a few get informal help from the head of the Home Economics Department of the schools and from occasional state demonstrations on child care; a handful get hold of government bulletins. Some mothers found help in a 'mothers' training class' conducted for a time by a minister's wife, and a score of others are enthusiastic over a Mothers' Sunday School Class in another church; a few look to the Mothers' Council, but many of the supporters of these groups say that they get little concrete help from them. Forty mothers, many of them from the working class, paid over forty dollars for an installment set of ten volumes on child-training entitled Foundation Stones of Success; with the purchase went membership in a mothers' club where child-training programs were to have been studied, had not the club died after a meeting or two. Some working class mothers receive advice in the physical care of their children from the Visiting Nurses' Association and some through the schools, although the latter, like the medical profession, appear to be chiefly concerned with remedial rather than preventive work. Most important of all new sources of information are the widely-read women's magazines. 'There was only one weak magazine thirty-five years ago from which we got help in child training,' according to one mother, 'and it was nothing like the fine women's magazines we have today.' Such 'baby books' as Holt's 'Care and Feeding of Infants' are also supplanting the 'family recipe book' of 1890. And yet a prevalent mood among Middletown parents is bewilderment, a feeling that their difficulties outrun their best efforts to cope with them." 4. "Middletown" may be any town. Class members may discuss whether it is their town.
Sumner continues: "If the life conditions change, the traditional folkways may produce pain and loss, or fail to produce the same good as formerly. Then the loss of comfort and ease brings doubt into the judgment of welfare?and thus disturbs the unconscious philosophy of the mores." (5. Folkways:58).
The customs that we now have individually have in general been imposed on us by the pressure of the group. In so far as we do what is right we do what the groups in which we live have accepted as the desirable way of doing. The group habits are the products of the interaction of individuals and masses. Gradually, often slowly, the crowd accepts the suggestions of the individual and then imposes it as a requirement on the other individuals. It is significant that folkways do change and develop. Our ways of caring for and guiding children can thus be modified in the interest of greater welfare.
At present the movement is to take the contributions of individuals of the past years, give them by cooperative action the sanction of the group, then seek to have those who really work with children apply them as the new set of folkways with children. The American movement had its beginning back in the early days of the government when poor children were fed, clothed, and educated by charitable institutions subsidized by government. The expansion of public education forwarded the movement. Child labor legislation has added its benefits. Behind all of these movements has been a developing sense of humanitarianism in our social life and a body of scientific work done in the field of child psychology. Now as a nation we are ready to coordinate the influences of the specific agencies that care for the child: the parent and home; schools; governmental agencies; voluntary social agencies.
The modern movement led by the federal government began on Christmas day, 1908, when President Theodore Roosevelt invited 200 child welfare workers to meet in Washington, January 25-26, 1909, to discuss the problem of "Dependent Children." These children are the product of the breakdown of the normal institutions for child care. The recommendations that were made in 1909 regarding them included the following:
1. Children were not to be removed from their homes because of poverty.
2. Causes of dependency were to be studied and removed.
3. Dependent children should be placed in foster homes as far as possible.
4. Institutions should be incorporated and inspected by the state.
5. A federal Children's Bureau should be created.
The Children's Bureau in the Department of Labor was organized in 1912. Its purpose is to: "investigate and report upon all matters pertaining to the welfare of children and child life among all classes of our people, and shall especially investigate the questions of infant mortality, the birth rate, orphanage, juvenile courts, desertion, dangerous occupations, accidents and diseases of children, employment, legislation affecting children in the several States and Territories."
The work of the Children's Bureau has been a direct product of this first conference. It has included in its publications many valuable contributions which can be had either free or at a very low cost. The other tangible product of the first conference was a new wave of interest in the scientific study of the welfare factors in public education, in the medical care of children and in parental education. An illustration of the type of work that was being done is found in the following extract from an address given before the American Academy of Medicine in 1912 by Dr. Thomas D. Wood: "The child is the most valuable object in the human world. Biologically speaking, the only reason for the existence of the adult of the species is the reproduction and care RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the young. The most important business on earth is the bearing and rearing of children. And it is of all forms of business, in relation to its value to mankind, the most inadequately understood and the least well conducted..* * * For practical eugenics it is essential that the romantic, the affectionate Basis of marriage should be preserved, but the sentimental and emotional elements should be supported and guided by intelligent appreciation of all the factors necessary for parenthood which will protect the biological values, as these are as important in the human species as in any other. "This view of life, in which the interests of the future determine present conduct, will modify the influences and attractive forces which draw men and women together for marriage and the institution of the family. 'Che dominance of this idea} will, unconsciously, even in the minds of those properly ' trained, tend to make those qualities, attributes, and characteristics in each most attractive and desirable to the other which are most important in men and women for parenthood, for the welfare of the future." President Woodrow Wilson called the second White House Conference to meet May 5-8, 1919 under the direction of the Children's Bureau. Although this conference was limited in its scope by the war conditions its discussions expanded the field to include a study of five phases of child welfare: (1) economic and social basis for child welfare standards; (2) child labor; (3) health of children and mothers; (4) children in need of special care; (5) standardization of child welfare laws. Eight regional conferences were later held. The standards approved by these meetings LESSON DEPARTMENT have served as a stimulus and a guide to legislation during the succeeding years. Each of the first two conferences was essentially a report meeting: leading to recommendations. The recent White House Conference on Child Health and Protection and the subsequent state meetings differ basically in their programs. First there was a general planning committee of twenty-seven men and women which outlined the detailed units of the work and then grouped these details into four major sections: Medical. Service; (Public Health Service and Administration; Education and 'Training; and The Handicapped. Special committees operating in each of these sections is shown in the following table: Section I. Medical Service a. Growth and 'Development. B. Prenatal and Maternal Care. C. Medical Care for Children. Section II. Public Health Service and Administration. | a. Public Health Organization. B. Communicable Disease Control. C. Milk Production and Control. Section III. Education and Training. A. The Family and Parent Education. B. The Infant and (Preschool Child. C. The School Child. D. Vocational Guidance and Child Labor. E. Recreation and Physical Education. F. Special Classes. G. Youth Outside of Home and School. Section IV. The Handicapped a. State and Local Organizations for the Handicapped. B. Physically and Mentally Handicapped. Socially Handicapped?Dependency and Neglect. 2. Socially Handicapped?Delinquency. Many sub-committees were formed. The first step in each case was one of fact finding in two major fields, first, the technical and scientific work in the field; second, experiments in community improvement in the various agencies of child welfare. One statement of objectives, that of the committee on the Socially Handicapped?Delinquency, will illustrate the plan. "The aim of the Delinquency Committee is to bring together and interpret in a simple and understandable way the experience of those who have been studying its causation, significance and _ treatment. From the point of view of organized society, delinquency may be defined as anti-social behavior of a kind which the community has legal authority to recognize and deal with. As applied to juveniles, the term refers to certain behavior problems arising in the process of growing from a state of complete dependence to one of independence as a properly integrated person in a living social organization. Growing up to become a responsible adult involves both privileges and duties, freedom and rules, the individual and the situation. It is important to consider the developing child's own urges and needs, and the urges and needs of the various social groups to which the child must in large measure adjust, namely; the family, the school, the Church, industry, other community agencies, and the municipality and State. The committee is attempting to state these needs in general terms and to point out the conflicts which inevitably arise between the needs and urges of 562 the child and the needs of the social groups which form his environment, and which sometimes result in delinquent behavior. Through various sub-committees, the committee is studying the present situation with reference to the extent of delinquency and its relationship to' these various social institutions, and the agencies which society has set up to deal with it. It is also considering the significant factors in modern life which affect delinquency, and the most promising experiments in its prevention and treatment." The major work of the recent conference was done by these committees of investigation between the first call in July, 1929 and the meetings November 19-22, 1930. The second step outlined in President Hoover's call was to report what is being done. This was done in the main by summary reports at the meeting. The complete report can be had only when the publications are completed. The third step was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the recommendation of "what ought to be done and how to do it." This is the theme of the next lesson. From the meeting in Washington the enthusiasm and_ leadership spread to the states. Conferences were held after committees studied the facts about local conditions. After the state meetings there has been widespread activity in localities and special organizations in attempts to take the message of the experts, give it the sanction of popularity and mass action and thus lead to new practices, new folkways, based on the product of modern science. Cooperation in this movement by the ward Relief Societies is looked for as the chief outcome of the study of these lessons. References: 1, Sumner: Folkways, p. 521. 2. Sumner: Folkways, p. III. 3. Lind: Middletown, p. 143. 4. Lind: Middletown, p. 149-51. 5. Sumner: Ibid, p. 58.