Help me the good in life to see While loving all humanity, That through thy power I may find grace And in thy kingdom find a place, Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon VACATIONS end. Blessed is work. "By the sweat of thy brow" means not punishment but salvation. Work brings surcease of unrest, content to the mind, and is the panacea for sorrow. HE Pioneer Mother Monument," unveiled last July in Spiingville is a fitting tribute to the courageous women who helped to conquer these desert lands. The idea was conceived and carried on to its ultimate completeness by the Springville Camps of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers. The mother of Cyrus E. Dallin, the sculptor, was the model for this beautiful monument. MRS: LIBBIE RICH PRATT who died recently was one of Utah's choicest daughters. She was a charter member of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers and gave valuable service in collecting relics and historical data. ADAM CURIE is the only person to have received more than one of the Nobel prizes, having won the coveted prize in both chemistry and physics. MRS. APPHIA HACK and several other women from the University of Cincinnati are a part of the American expedition allied with the German archaeologists to excavate the Aegean Area for the buried treasures of Troy. MISS ADELAIDE AMES, scientist of Harvard College, was drowned while vacationing in New Hampshire. MILDRED DIDRIKSON, a Texas girl, won the tworld record as a javelin thrower the opening day of the Olympic games this year. She also made a new world record in the running hurdle race for women. DONNA VICTORIA KENT, ' director of prisons in Spain has a policy of "softness" and gentleness; she endeavors to keep the prisoners busy at work and play, confining them only at night to their cells. The rigid punishment during the monarchy is now gone. TALIAN women are now initiated into the Fascist group. Mussolini places them almost on a par with the men. MARGUERITE NICHOLS of Boston opened an. Anglo American tea room in Berlin, which became a popular gathering place for students and scholars where, over the American pie, international problems are now as freely discussed as at the Lausanne or Geneva conferences. Incidentally Miss Nichols' experiment: is becoming quite profitable. ADY ELEANOR SMITH'S novel "Ballerina" shows a vivid study of the terpsichorean art as her last novel "Red 'Wagon' did of gypsy life. HE Countess De Martel, French novelist, died this summer. She was a grandniece of the famous Mirabeau. ENNIE BROUGHTEN BROWN has written a historical book about old Fort Hall which ought to interest the Westerner. OETA LJUNGBERG, a new Swedish nightingale, makes her ° appearance at the. Metropolitan Opera this fall. She fills the place of Jeritza, the song bird of Vienna, and is said to be a second Jenny Lind.