Why Religious Training? By Dr. Joseph F. Merrill, of the Council of the Twelve.
IN these modern days when everything is questioned, when everything is analyzed, and when the demand for freedom of expression and action is so insistent, we are often forced to defend long accepted views and cherished ideals. It seems that no longer is anything "taken for granted." Particularly is this true relative to matters pertaining to conduct and religion. Under the plea that freedom of expression and action is an inherent human right, all sorts of demoralizing practices are advocated and stoutly defended, as freedom to gamble, smoking among women, drinking of alcoholic beverages, even though law violation is involved, companionate marriage, free love indulgences, violation of marriage covenants, etc. There are many of indolent natures and moral dwarfs who claim the right to live even to the extent of helping themselves without leave to other people's property. Again under the plea that "business is business" some people whose most outstanding characteristic is selfishness, proceed as if "all is fair in love and war" and so assume that the "means justifies the end" no matter how unrighteous. Again, we are living in an "Age of Science." In the realms of knowledge and mechanical achievements the human mind has scaled heights heretofore undreamed of. So in this sensual and material day there are some who proudly proclaim—as if it were a distinction to do so—that there is no God and there are myriads of others who appear to be wholly indifferent to the question. Whether or not there is life beyond the grave does not concern them. They live the doctrine, "eat, drink be merry for tomorrow we die." It is doubtful if ever before in the history of civilization life was lived with more abandon than today.
So, Latter-day Saints are faced with a situation and a problem the exact like of which they have never seen before. How to overcome the situation, how to live saint-like in this complex and ever-changing world, how to train their children so that their manner of living shall be a pride to the parents, are questions that cannot satisfactorily be answered off-handedly. It is the last of these questions with which this article is most concerned.
The writer remembers once meeting a friend—one of the most prominent of our educators—to whom he remarked, "I rarely see now-a-days
508
anything from you in print on how to raise children, a subject about which you used to write frequently." The prompt reply was, "Oh, I now have children of my own." This reply seemed to confirm the truth spoken by Shakespeare's lovely Portia when she said, "I can easier teach twenty what were good to be done, than to be one of the twenty to follow my own teaching."
No Latter-day Saint will question, of course, the need of training our youth in religion—the need of this kind of training was perhaps never so great. And there are many non-members who also feel, or have felt strongly on this matter. Does anyone question that America and the world need an effective, vitalizing religion that will grip the people so powerfully that the ideals of true Christianity will have a firm lodgment in the minds and hearts of all, including youth? Thinkers in all walks of life, both men and women, are converted to this view, and these thinkers in large measure, constitute our leaders, educational, political and civic as well as religious.
In his book entitled An Adventure in Religious Education, Dean Athearn of Boston University wrote: "It is now becoming increasingly clear that, society must learn how to teach virtue, and find a way to give every child a systematic training in morality and religion. Unless society can build an effective system of religious education to match its system of secular schools, our nation will crumble just as certainly as did Greece and Rome, and for the same reasons. The American people are becoming aroused; wise and far-seeing leaders in all religious bodies are calling the people to a great crusade in the in-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
terests of moral and religious education." (P. 34.)
Another scholar, Dr. James H. Snowden, expressed himself similarly in his book entitled Outfitting the Teacher of Religion when he asked the question, "Was there ever such need for religion in education as in our modern world?" And the great thinker Herbert Spencer declared that religion "concerns us more than any other matter whatsoever."
In the Ordinance of 1787 the founders of our Republic wrote: "Religion, morality, and knowledge, being necessary to good government and the happiness of mankind, schools and means of education shall forever be encouraged." In his farewell address, Washington said, "Of all the dispositions and habits, which lead to political prosperity, religion and morality are indispensable supports * * * Let us with caution indulge the supposition that morality can be maintained without religion."
Mr. Roger W. Babson, the great business statistician says "This religion which we talk about for an hour a week, on Sunday, is not only the vital force which protects our community, but it is the vital force which makes our community."
And so educational leaders, seeing the trend of the times, have sensed the need of more effective moral training in the public schools. During recent years they have, therefore, given a good deal of attention to the subject. For illustration, the Utah State Department of Public Instruction published in June, 1929, a 176 page Supplement to the Utah State Course of Study treating on character education. In the preface to this excellent manual, Dr. C. N. Jensen, the superintendent, says: "Notwithstanding this commendable
WHY RELIGIOUS TRAINING?
work of the school (in character training) the increase of juvenile delinquency and crime has led some of us to hope that the public school might become a greater force for training in morality."
But can children be trained effectively in morality unless religious influences are brought into play in the process? In the October, 1927, number of Good Housekeeping Senator James J. Davis, then a member of President Coolidge's cabinet, writes an article discussing the need of religious training as a part of the educational process. Among other things he wrote: "America has a solemn duty to her young people. If we are not to suffer the effects of a dangerous degeneration, we must look to it that the children of today become the citizens of tomorrow in whose hands the nation passed on to us by Washington can safely go on. * * * We must teach the head, the hand, the heart. * * * Morality needs a religious base. A man cannot be truly moral unless at the same time he is deeply religious."
This, then, is Senator Davis' answer to the proposition that religious influences must have part in the training of children. And the Senator continues: "Men may say what they will, but we shall never have a morality that respects the rights and integrity of others unless our morality has a religious sanction. To put morality on anything but a religious basis is to build on sand. It is religion that gives vision, strength, inspiration, and without it we are nothing."
And among many other fine things the Senator says are these gripping words. "No nation ever lived and prospered without a religious faith of some sort." Of course the Senator here states an historical fact.
509
When Senator Davis wrote his article, he was a member of President Coolidge's cabinet. Shall we quote a few words spoken about the same time by President Coolidge himself? Here they are: "Our doctrine of equality and liberty of humanity and charity, comes from our belief in the brotherhood of man through the fatherhood of God. The whole foundation of enlightened civilization, in government, in society and business rests on religion. Unless our people are thoroughly instructed in its great truths, they are not fitted either to understand our institutions or provide them with adequate support. * * * Laxity in the nation's religious convictions will induce forfeiture of the guarantees which have been erected for the protection of life and liberty. We cannot remind ourselves too often that our right to be free, the support of our principles of justice, our obligations to each other in our domestic affairs and our duty to humanity abroad, the confidence in each other necessary to support our social and economic relations, and finally the fabric of our government itself, all rest on religion. Its importance cannot be stressed too often or emphasized too much."
Strong words are these and written by such an outstanding authority in the science and art of government, they are worthy of our most careful consideration. Needless to say that similar thoughts have been expressed both in writing and in speech by many of our leaders in all walks of life, and it is of the utmost importance they all agree, that the youth of the land be trained in religion. If this shall not be done our civilization is doomed. From such a fate shall we not all work to be delivered?
510
To genuine Latter-day Saints the religious training of their youth has always been a problem of chief concern. The schools, academies and colleges they established and maintained before the public school system of the states where they live were adequately organized and financed, bear testimony to this fact. And many times, too, these schools were maintained at great sacrifice. But however great the sacrifices they were made uncomplainingly. Nothing removable could be permitted to stand between a Latter-day Saint home and the education of the children of the home. And of course an essential part of this education was religious training. Certainly no church membership has ever placed a higher value on this type of training than the Latter-day Saints.
To supply this type of training the Church has long provided various agencies with the result that at the present time no other religious body of people is better supplied, perhaps, than the Latter-day Saints with facilities for religious education either for children or adults. Just to name some of the agencies is all the attention we can here give them. First, in order of priority, comes the Relief Society, an efficient organization for women that dates back to Nauvoo times. It has a broad program of training and education well suited to the growth of women in the field of practical religion. Then there is the Sunday School, an institution wonderfully organized, that opens its doors to the entire church membership "from the cradle to the grave." Next among the auxiliary organizations, all educational in nature—we have the church-wide Mutual Improvement and Primary organizations, both giving week-day pro-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
grams in every ward in the Church, also in many branches of the missions. Each of the organizations named has its characteristic program so that one needs to belong to several of them to take advantage of all the training opportunities provided by the Church. Space will permit only of a mention of the Priesthood, genealogical and sacrament meeting facilities for religious instruction and training. And, of course, we must not overlook the missionary organizations, both at home and abroad, when speaking or writing of means offered by the Church for religious training. The great training value of the missionary work of the Church is so well known that no defense of it is called for here.
But a few lines must be given here to a comparatively new, and therefore less well known agency in the Church; that providing week-day instruction and training in the field of religion. We refer to the seminaries—week-day schools of religion—which offer carefully prepared programs of instruction and training to the youth of the Church attending grades 7 to 12 inclusive, of the public schools. During the adolescent period the seminary is one of the very best and most effective means provided by the Church for religious training. In more than two hundred seminaries over thirty thousand high school boys and girls enrolled during the school year 1931-32. Each seminary class is, in general, in charge of a professionally trained teacher and one specially trained to teach seminary. In consequence the effectiveness of seminary work is exceptionally good. But this article must not end without mention of the most important agency in the Church for religious WHY RELIGIOUS TRAINING? training,—week-day or Sabbath,—the home. The home were ideal and its effectiveness as a training agent were complete, then the Church could safely eliminate a number of its training agencies. But, alas! Such homes are very few, and perhaps non-existent. Yet, however this may be, the home, such as it is, is still the most important means in the Church for the religious training of the young people. The success of any of the organizations is largely dependent upon the. Amount and kind of support given them by the homes from which their enrollment comes. The attendance at Sunday School, for example, may be regular or irregular. A student may or may not enroll in the seminary. In both cases the influence of the parents is usually the deciding factor. Further, if the teachings of the Church are observed in the home, the most influential factor in the Church is at work, It is to the home, then, that training organizations look, it is upon the home that they must depend for sympathy and support. And the degree of success attained in their training work is a measure of the response they get from the home. Would that all parents were willing, able and wise enough to do well their part in the religious training of their children, then the future of our country and civilization would be safe.