Funeral and Burial of President Brigham Young Part II Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian leading brethren of the Church to the death of President Brigham Young, is well expressed in the words of George C. Cannon, a member of the Council of the Twelve: "On 'Tuesday night," he states, "as I sat at the head of his bed, and thought of his death, if it should occur, I recoiled from the contemplation of the view. It seemed to me that he was indispensable. What could we do without him? He had been the brain, the eye, the ear, the mouth, and hand for the entire Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. From the greatest details connected with the organization of this Church, down to the smallest minutiae connected with the work, he has left upon it the impress of his great mind. From the organization of the Church, and the construction of Temples, the building of 'Tabernacles; from the creation of a provisional State government, and a 'Territorial government, down to the small matter of directing the shape of these seats upon which. We sit this day; upon all these things, as well as upon all the settlements of the 'Territory, the impress of his genius is apparent. Nothing was too small for his mind; nothing was too large. His mind was of that character that it could grasp the greatest subjects, and yet it had the Page 84 Toe: immediate reaction of the C. R. Savage BRIGHAM YOUNG Said to be one of his last portraits capacity to descend to the minutest details. 'This was evident in all his counsels and associations with the Saints; he had that power, that wonderful faculty, which God gave him, and with which he was inspired. And while I was thinking of all this, it seemed as though we could not spare him; he was indispensable to this great work. And while I felt it, it seemed as though a voice said, 'I am God, this is my work; it is I who build up and carry | it forward; it is my business to guide my Saints'"" (Deseret News, September 3, 1877). FUNERAL AND BURIAL OF PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG 85 II HE funeral of President Brigham Young was held on Sunday, September 2, 1877, in the large Tabernacle. The previous day, "at a quarter past eight o'clock in the moming," the body was conveyed from the Lion House to the 'Tabernacle, in order that the Saints might have "a farewell look upon the countenance of our loved and venPS & 4 Don Busath for Eig): Ais ge Riedl erated President, Prophet and Brother."' About half past ten o'clock the doors of the 'Tabernacle were opened and the anxious crowds admitted. From this time on until nightfall "there was a continuous stream of living humanity passing through the Tabernacle" until, it was estimated, that at least 25,000 people "had taken their last farewell of the honored dead." The following morning, Sunday, BRIGHAM YOUNG'S GRAVE First Avenue, Salt Lake City, Utah 86 at ten o'clock, the doors of the Tabernacle were again opened, and by noon "the building was entirely filled, as were the aisles and doorways, and every available standing place. 'The congregation within the building numbered at least 12,000, while thousands of persons, unable to obtain admission, were in the grounds of the 'Tabernacle, or in the streets outside." "At 12 noon," the immense congregation was called to order by George QO. Cannon. "The Choir of 220 voices, led by George Careless, with Joseph J. Daynes presiding at the Organ," sang "Hark, From Afar a Funeral Knell." The opening prayer was offered by Franklin D. Richards, after which the choir sang "Thou Dost not Weep to Weep Alone." The first speaker was President Daniel H. Wells, whom, with the others, I can quote only briefly. "T arise with an aching heart," he said, "but I cannot let pass this opportunity of paying at least a tribute of respect to our departed friend and brother, who has just stepped behind the veil. I can only say, let the silent tear fall that it may give relief to the troubled heart; for we have lost our counselor, our friend our President; a friend to God, a friend to his Saints, a friend to the Church, and a friend to humanity." Wilford Woodruff followed with a few remarks: "We have lying before us the earthly tabernacle of President Brigham Young. His voice is hushed in death, and all Israel has to submit to the mind and will of God. Israel will never again hear his voice until after the resurrection. I have no desire to occupy the time of this assembly, in eulogizing the life of President Young. His works and words are recorded in Heaven, and they are recorded here on the earth; and that is sufficient. Let those of us who remain a few days study the counsels, the sermons and _ principles which have been revealed to us through the mouth of the Prophet of God." RASTUS Snow followed: "... It would be a small thing to add my testimony, but which J know would be the testimony of thousands before me, as well as thousands who are not with us today, more especially those who have been longest and most intimately acquainted with him; namely, the never-failing devotion of his heart to the building up of the Kingdom of God, to the honoring of the Holy Priesthood he received, and the carrying out of the counsels of the Lord, and all things revealed through the Prophet Joseph...." George QO. Cannon then arose and read this remarkable statement, which President Young had pre pared in 1873, more than four years previously, regarding his funeral services and the disposition of his remains: "I, Brigham Young, wish my funeral services to be conducted in the following manner: "When I breathe my last, I wish my friends to put my body in as clean and wholesome state as can conveniently be done, and preserve the same for one, two, three or four days, or as long as my body can be preserved in good condition. I want my coffin made of plump one and one-quarter inch boards, not scrimped in length, but two inches FUNERAL AND BURIAL OF PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG 87 longer than I would measure, and from two to three inches wider than is commonly made for a person of my breadth and size, and deep enough to place me on a little comfortable bed, with a good suitable pillow for size and quality; my body dressed in my Temple clothing, and laid nicely into my coffin, and the coffin to have the appearance that if I wanted to turn a little to the right or the left, I should have plenty of room to do so. The lid can be made crowning. "At my interment I wish all of my family present, that can be conveniently, and the male members wear no crepe on their hats or in their coats; the females to buy no black bonnets, nor black dresses, nor black veils; but if they have them they are at liberty to wear them. The services may be permitted, as singing and a_ prayer offered, and if any of my friends wish to say a few words, and really desire, do so; and when they have closed their services, take my remains on a bier, and repair to the little burying ground, which I have reserved on my lot east of the White House on the hill, and in the southeast corner of this lot, have a vault built of mason work large enough to receive my coffin, and that may be placed in a box, if they choose, made of the same material as the coffin — redwood. Then place flat rocks over the vault sufficiently large to cover it, that the earth may be placed over it — nice, fine, dry earth — to cover it until the walls of the little cemetery are reared, which will leave me in the southeast corner. This vault ought to be roofed over, with some kind of temporary roof. 'There let my earthly house or tabernacle rest in peace, and have a good sleep, until the morning of the first resurrection; no crying or mourning with anyone, as I have done my work faithfully and in good faith. "IT wish this to be read at the funeral, providing that I should die anywhere in the mountains, I desire the above directions respecting my place of burial to be observed; but if I should live to go back with the Church to Jackson County, I wish to be buried there." BRIGHAM YOUNG, PRESIDENT OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1873, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PRESIDENT Young did die "in the mountains," and his instructions were respected. The concluding speakers were George Q. Cannon and President John Taylor. "His value has not been properly estimated by the Latter-day Saints," said Elder Cannon. "There are none of us who will not feel this more and more, every day in the future. Today, now that we have lost him, we examine our conduct, and the wish will rise that we had been more obedient, more willing to observe his counsels, and pay him that respect and reverence which his great qualities as a Prophet and _ leader deserved.... The time will come when the Latter-day Saints will appreciate him as one of the greatest Prophets that ever lived. "IT have been much with him. I look upon this association as the greatest privilege of my life, to have heard his counsels and witness his life as I have. And in contemplat- 88 ing that life, it seems to me perfect. In my eyes and to my feelings, he was as perfect as a man could be in mortality." President John Taylor was the concluding speaker. "We have before us," he said, "the body of the man who has led us for the past thirty-three years. 'Thirty-three years ago I was with, and witnessed the departure of our first President, Joseph Smith. He passed away in very different circumstances to those which surrounded President Brigham Young in his last hours. Immured in prison, surrounded by enemies who sought his life and attacked by a ruthless mob, savage and relentless, they took away his life, and he died by the hand, and in the midst of vindictive and bloodthirsty foes, who, in the absence of legal offense, surcharged with deadly, venomous hate, clamored for his blood. "President Young, after leading the Church, and buffeting the trials and persecutions to which the Church has ever been subjected, has, at length, in these valleys of the mountains, after having accomplished the object of his life, and done the et that has been represented here so truthfully by our brethren, who have spoken, lain down to sleep in the midst of a loving and affectionate family, surrounded by faithful and tried friends.... Both of these Presidents had the faith and confidence of the Saints of the Most High, and the guidance and direction of the Lord." After a closing hymn by the choir, and the benediction by Orson Hyde, the body of President Young was borne to its last resting place, as he had directed. All that was mortal of him was given back to mother earth; his spirit had departed to the great kingdom beyond. Il If I were asked to point out the principal thing, which, more than all others, made President Brigham Young the great man he was, I think that I should reply, without hesitation, that it was his ability to believe — his great faith. First, faith in a living God, to whom he felt personally responsible and to whom he felt obligated to render up an accounting for all the deeds done in the flesh. Second, faith in every principle and doctrine revealed and taught by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and a firm and unyielding determination to shape his life according to those principles. Third, faith in himself, and in his ability to carry on the great work of establishing the kingdom of God, the leadership which had come to him after the death of the Prophet. 'Time and time again in his history, I have been astounded by the strength of this man's faith. On his tombstone one might well have written He Believed — yes, he believed his religion, this great man, and he shaped his life to its principles, to his dying day. She Spirit s Stillness Caroline Eyring Miner God's masterpiece, Iguassu Falls, demands The spirit's stillness, savoring silence, too. The mighty water thunders and commands And I stand mute. Eternity shines through, As emerald-amber streaked, the living stream Plunges in shattered glass and silver spray, Rising in mist like bride's illusive dream. Glass beads spill on the mossy footstool where Embroidered eyelet flounces endless weave Hypnotic trances of this sunlit hair So silvery bright that falling, falling leaves This memory in tropic jungle green, Where the majesty and power of God are seen. Page 89 Sood Buying.