Cafe Curtains Are Versatile Shirley Thulin wer is the most popular, the most decorative, the most functional, and least expensive window treatment today? There's only one answer — Cafe Curtains! Why so popular? Because they are at home in many rooms, from attic bedroom through kitchen, bath, or basement laundry room. They are decorative, because you can use your imagination and make them gay and colorful, whimsical (from comic prints as for children's rooms), sedate (as for dining rooms), and bright as sunshine for music or sewing rooms. How about functional? Cafe curtains really are! If you move a lot, they are your only answer. You can make them fit a new set of windows by raising or lowering the rod. They can cover the whole window, or three-fourths of the window, or half of the window, or only the bottom fourth if you so desire. You can have them in one, two, or three tiers. You can let them hang straight, tie them back, or part them. They do away with the need for blinds, too, and can be hung on any sturdy curtain rod. They are by far the least expensive curtains, because they can be made from inexpensive prints, from bedspreads, from unbleached muslin, from tablecloths, or, for small windows, from remnants. How to Make Plan double fullness for the width ef your window and measure the length, plus hem and facing, to estimate yardage required. Wash and press the material first, unless you are sure it won't shrink. Before making the points, make a narrow hem along both side edges and a wider hem across the bottom (figure 1). X= —— Figure 1 Make a narrow hem along both edges of the curtain, and a wider hem along the bottom. Lay the material out flat on the table and, using a paper panel the same width as the hemmed material, divide it into equal parts and draw reverse scallops three inches deep (figure 2). Now trace with a dark pencil, scallops along the unhemmed top edge of the material on the wrong side. Be sure to measure from cach point to the bottom of the material to be sure they are even Page 110 CAFE CURTAINS ARE VERSATILE 1 3 INCHES | DEEP Figure 2 Make reverse scallops three inches deep for the top of the curtain. Cut a piece of material, full width by three inches deep, for the facing. Lay this under the edge with the scallop lines, face to face, so the pencil lines show. Baste them together across the top and bottom to hold them securely, then sew by machine on pencil lines. Next cut out close to the edge around the scallops, leaving about onefourth inch seam. 'urn the piece inside out and press down with an iron along the stitching of the scallops. 'Then turn up one-fourth inch along the bottom edge of the facing, leaving a one and one-half inch hem at the deepest point, and stitch by machine (figure 3). AE oe eee ee FACING em ee meee = Figure 3 Make a facing for the scallops for the top of the curtain. If you would rather, you can cut out the points and bind them with bias tape of matching color, so the tape only shows on the wrong side. If you want them to hang especially well, press them into pleats by folding the material from each point to the bottom of the curtain (the way you used to make a paper fan when a child). This enhances the appearance and the hang of the curtain. Attach a ring to each point and hang the rings over a rod.