A Legacy of Lilacs Pauline L. Jensen LL day we drove through a A stcads downpour of rain, and it was late afternoon when Martin, my husband, and I entered the town where I was born and grew to womanhood. After an absence of over twenty years, I was going back to see the house in which I'd lived so many years, and the grounds where my brother Tom and I had spent countless happy hours. The thought of this return had sustained me all day, and pushed into the background the bitterness I had felt ever since Martin had received word, a month earlier, that we were being transferred to another town. "Tl not go," I had stubbornly maintained. "We've spent ten years of backbreaking work and_hard-toget dollars making this place into exactly what we want. I can't walk away and leave it for someone else to enjoy." "We have no choice,' Martin had answered patiently. "And, this, after all, is a promotion." "But our yard," I wept, "our beautiful yard! 'The moonflowers on the garden wall, and the tamarisk below our window. How we've loved that in the early spring — the first feathery blush of the season!" I broke into fresh sobs. "These things are old-fashioned, Martin. No one else will want them. They'll tear them up and replace them with exotic plants that haven't their beauty." In the end, I'd done as I knew I would do. And now we were on Page 112 our way to the new home, with this overnight stop on the way, suggested by Martin, I was sure, in the hope that it would divert me from the grief of closing the door on a loved phase of living. I couldn't tell him how badly I needed to find something here in this little town. Something vague and unexplainable, but a something that would bolster my sagging spirits. "See anything familiar?" Martin asked, bringing me back to reality. I shook my head. The avenue we were driving along had been a lovely street with wide lawns and beautiful trees when I last saw it. Now it was lined with drive-ins, a theatre, filling stations, garages, a miniature golf course, and motels. "Here," Martin exclaimed, braking the car to a stop, "this motel looks all right, and it has a vacancy sign. How about it?" I nodded. I waited, as Martin registered, and then came back to the car for the bags. In the room, as soon as Martin had deposited a bag on the chair, I flipped the bag open and took out a pair of low-heeled shoes. I glanced at my watch. It was almost six o'clock and the rain had stopped, but the May dusk was beginning to settle down. "Do you mind, Martin," I asked, pulling on the shoes, "if I go to the old neighborhood alone? Somehow, I'd like it that way." "Of course! I understand!" and I blessed my husband for this understanding. The faces I saw as I walked along A LEGACY OF LILACS were unfamiliar. I passed the spot where the old grade school once stood. A new building, of light brick and stone had replaced it. An auditorium stood on the ground where we played baseball in the summer, and fox-and-geese in winter. My heart pounded as I approached the corner. For just beyond it was the house — our house that I'd thought of so many times in the years past. As I came in sight of it, I closed my eyes, prolonging that moment to which I had looked forward. I gasped when I opened them. The white picket fence that Tom and [ had painted, Tom Sawyer fashion, was gone, and a low redwood one stretched decorously across the front. HE house! This couldn't be the big, square, utilitarian one where I had spent so many happy hours! A long portico extended across the front, and the shuttered windows gave it a look of southern grandeur. Gone was the old bay window, my mother's delight, and instead a large picture window overlooked the front yard and garden. Not the yard and garden I had known, with zinnias, marigolds, and nasturtiums, but a clipped lawn with rose beds and sundial. My eyes burned with tears. There was nothing here to remind me of those happy years. Somehow I had expected it would look the same. I had hoped to see a collie, like old Ginger, come bounding out to meet me. There was nothing that bore evidence of the kind of living we had known. Slowly I walked past the yard, 113 searching, longing, for something familiar. I turned the corner, feeling lost, forlorn, and old. We leave a place, I thought, and someone comes who changes it beyond recognition. Nothing remains of the old. Is this, I thought with heavy heart, what will happen to our tamarisk and moonflowers? Suddenly I straightened. There was something familiar. The scent of lilacs! Lilacs, fresh-washed in the rain! I saw them, then, a long row extending full length across the back of the yard. My mother's lilacs. For it was she who had planted them and tended them until their feet were firmly rooted in the ground. I recalled the time of planting. The nimble fingers, long since stilled, had placed each shrub carefully in its appointed place. "Don't work so hard," my father had gently chided her. "If my plans work out, we'll be gone from here before those lilacs bloom, and you won't be able to enjoy them." I remembered, as if it were yesterday. My mother had laid down her trowel and looked up at him, her Scotch blue eyes twinkling. "Then I will have left a legacy of joy to others. A legacy of lilacs." Tears stung my cheeks. I seemed powerless to move from the spot where I was standing. Suddenly, a light flashed on in the kitchen and the door was flung open. A slender, dark-haired woman stood silhouetted there a moment. Then, walking lightly, she crossed the patio and, flinging wide her arms, she breathed deeply of the lilac-scented air. "Jim," she called back over her shoulder, "Jim, do come out and 114 jon me. The fragrance of these lilacs is divine." I stepped back in the shadow of a tree, and watched a tall man stroll through the door and join her. I[ saw him put his arm around her waist, and then they walked toward the lilac hedge. I felt like singing. In spite of portico, sundial, and rose garden, these people kept and loved the oldfashioned lilacs. It could well be that those who followed us would like our tamarisk and moonflowers. I turned and started running. I must hurry, hurry back to Martin. I must tell him what had _ happened, and how my heart was lightened. For we, too, had left a legacy. Not one of lilacs, but of lowly tamarisk and moonflowers, for others to enjoy!