Visiting Seacher Nlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 40 — "Continue in Steadfastness" (D & C 49:23). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, May 1, 1962 Objective: To show that steadfastness is one of our most important character traits. TEADFASTNESS is a character trait loved both by the Lord and by one's fellow men. It is a synonym for dependability, faithfulness, firmness in the right. It means determination in adhering to sound principles. 'Those who are steadfast are unwavering in the face of temptations and obstacles. Steadfastness is one of the primary essentials for accomplishment. Unless we have this quality we are uncertain, easily swayed, and do not possess the perseverance to follow through to the end and to accomplish those things we set out to do. Steadfastness and conviction are closely interrelated. One cannot be steadfast unless he has strong convictions to which to adhere. Applied to the gospel, steadfastness means obtaining a strong conviction or an unwavering testimony of what is right, and then having the courage and the will power to live accordingly. On his ninetieth birthday, a loving father called the members of his family together to give them the benefit of his venerable wisdom. In respect to steadfastness, his counsel to his children was: "What means most to one when life is viewed from a long perspective is the assurance that one has never surrendered when the storms of life have beaten upon his face; and that he has always stood steadfast for the right. In the battle of hfe, the capacity to fight to the last rampart is the all-essential thing (H1NcKLEy, 138 BriAnt S.: That Ye Might Have Joy, page 32) Probably the most classic example of steadfastness in the face of adversity is found in the story of Job, as told in the Old Testament. Job was an upright and honest man who feared God and was greatly loved and blessed by him. Because of his righteousness, Job had _ prospered greatly in the land. Satan taunted the Lord and claimed that Job's righteousness was due only to the fact that the Lord had given him great wealth and steadfastness. To test his servant, the Lord put everything that Job possessed in the hands of Satan. And, one by one, his possessions, his children, and even his health were taken from him. In the face of all this affliction Job remained solidly steadfast. He did not waver in his own convictions nor in his faithfulness to the Lord. He staunchly maintained, "My lips shall not speak wickedness, nor my tongue utter deceit... Till I die I will not remove mine integrity from me. My Se ae I hold fast, and will not let it go. (Job 27:46). Job remained steadfast because he had an unfaltering testimony and an immovable conviction. He knew that his Redeemer lived. (See Job 19:25.) If we would build steadfastness into our lives, we must strengthen our convictions of what is night. On this foundation we will avoid uncertainty and wavering and will realize "... He that wavereth is like a wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed" (James 1:6). Let us apply to our lives the message as found in the D & C 49:2 Let us "continue in steadfastness" in being good neighbors, in being kind and understanding, and in giving devoted service to others and to the Church.