The Tintype Lady By Lillie M. Dale
The clock struck 3 a. m. As Lodema Latimer, regardless of her flimsy, gorgeous gown of spangled and beaded georgette and chiffon, flung herself into a heavy over-stuffed rocker in front of the fireplace where a feeble flame was still burning. Recklessly she kicked off her high heeled slippers and, resting her small, well shaped dark head against the soft grey back of the chair, she exclaimed: "Another perfectly beautiful romance wrecked on the rocks of stubbornness." Carelessly lighting a cigarette, she blew several puffs of smoke toward the mantel. "Oh, heck! I wish I were dead," she sobbed.
"Yes, my dear, you are right, you are making a very successful wreck of your life," said a soft voice. Lodema looked up and there on the mantel stood a strange, young lady such as she had never seen in her travels and she had traveled extensively. "Why! Who are you? How dare you?" she cried. "I am your grandmother," said the soft voice. "But to be up to date I must not publicly proclaim that relationship, for I have learned since sojourning on the mantel that I am your "Mama Latimore." You, the modern girl, my son James' only child."
"I have been watching you for a long time, and I know you have quarreled with John Aldrich,—and I wouldn't blame him one bit if he never saw you again. Don't interrupt me. Yes! I know you were engaged, but no right-thinking man can ever approve of the things you insist upon doing. All society girls drink and smoke you say? But does that make it right? Or does it make you good, sweet, and womanly? These habits lead to other bad habits and, my darling child, only yesterday I thought I heard you use a profane word. Gracious me! How short your skirt is. Just below your knees, it is shocking. I can actually see your—garters, and your feet, how large they are. Why! When I was married, I only wore a one and a half size boot. I remember so well a beautiful pair I had, cloth tops and laced on each inner side. Your hair is—let me think—they call it shingled. Surely you look more like a boy, only for that ridiculous gown. Here, it is cold weather and I know you haven't your flannels on."
"At first I thought your complexion was natural. I could not see very clearly after being in that drawer so long but I know now it is the make-up that keeps your cheeks so rosy, and your 
 lips—I feel like falling right off into the fireplace. In my time, to color the lips would have been disgraceful. From what I hear, young ladies of today powder their noses and rouge in public and nothing is thought of it. You appear on the street in men's attire, on a hike in knickers, I over-heard someone say. It almost makes me wish I was back in that dark drawer, wrapped up in soft, white tissue paper, where I couldn't hear or see such goings on."
"When your gr—gran—, no "Mama Latimore" was a young woman, it was a great privilege to be allowed to remain out of an evening until nine o'clock, but I heard you coming in at three this morning. The clock on the mantel beside me chimed the hour, so I was not mistaken. I was awake and waiting for you, because you always come to this room and smoke a cigarette before retiring. I knew you had gone out earlier in the evening with a Aldrich in that big blue auto-mo-bubble—"Sport Model." I declare! There is so much I must remember. A jazz age, you say? I don't like the word. That reminds me when I was a miss, I learned to play the organ. "The Blue Danube" and "Nellie Gray" were very popular. A fox-trot or any other animal trotting was never heard of in music. I have listened to you playing, "Baby Blues" and "Choo, Choo, Blues" fox trot. I cannot recollect the other colors. Do I like your dances? I really haven't had a chance to see many. Day in and day out I am in one place on this mantel. Howsoever, I will say that dance named after a southern town is very improper. There is not any dance as pretty and graceful as the "Minuet" or "Money Musk."
"You are not sleepy, neither am I, so suppose my dear, I tell you how, for four years I traveled through the south in a soldier's pocket."
"Shortly after Will Latimore and I became engaged, he enlisted at the first call for volunteers in the Civil War, in a Massachusetts cavalry regiment. For some reason there was a long delay in going to the front and He, being impatient and rather restless at the delay, re-enlisted in a company of infantry that had marching orders and he was soon in the midst of the fighting. He enlisted as a private and served through the entire war leaving it as a captain.
"Tintypes were very popular in those days so I had a likeness taken and he carried it away, telling me it was his most precious possession. I thought my frock was the prettiest I ever had. It is the one I am now wearing. A wide blue and black striped silk with three rows of gilt buttons extending across the ample basque. The sleeves are full and these white under sleeves reaching just above the wrist are most effective. The skirt contains six widths and is held out as you notice by hoops which is a beautiful fashion. The skirt, too, is ruffled from the hem to the waist line, where the fullness is gathered in. My straw hat has a low crown THE TINTYPE LADY 399 and the brim dips in the front and back. The trimming of black ribbon and feathers is very stylish. My hat sits upon the top of my head, not pulled down to my brow as you wear yours. My hair is heavy and long and I wear it coiled low on my neck with becoming curls hanging down on one side."
"I always dressed in good taste and was much admired and courted by the young beaux in our town. Did I ever quarrel with my lover? I suppose I did because I was proud like you, but the war cured me of the determination to always want to have my own way and I learned it never pays to be stubborn."
"We women of the north were very busy making bandages to send to hospitals, helping take care of returned soldiers who were either sick or wounded, sending comfort and cheer to the dear ones on the battle field. A woman's duty is always to uplift and give her moral support to men folks, never to lower her standard."
"When a fleet under Captain (afterward admiral) Farragut entered the Mississippi river from the gulf of Mexico, General Butler commanded the land forces and Will Latimore was one of the boys in blue. The confederates had strung a cable across the river to prevent the Union vessels from sailing by to New Orleans. General Butler's army made camp one night. Close to the point where the cable was stretched across the river. Private Latimore, off duty, strolled down to where the stake was driven into the ground to hold the cable. He was alone and wretchedly homesick. Taking his note book from his pocket he extracted from between its leaves, my tintype, the picture of the girl he had left in the north. It was while sitting there the idea came to him to make a frame for this picture. So with only his jack-knife to work with, he lovingly whittled a frame from out the stake. It was in one piece, with no joining. Very delicately he carved a tiny vine on each side of the frame and cut my name—Mary—in clear letters. You will forgive me dearie, if I weep just a little, because it brings back such sweet memories of happy bygone days."
Lodema tried to speak, but no words came, her head fell to one side and with a jerk she sat erect in her rocker. The fire was out. Glancing toward the mantel, in old fashioned hoop skirts, ruffles and curls, stood "The Tintype Lady" in the odd frame. Lodema stretched out her arms toward her— "You darling grandmother," she exclaimed! "I will try so hard to be different."
Shelley somewhere says that "Poets are the unacknowledged legislators of the world." They are, however, not so much makers of laws, as creators of conditions out of which laws arise — Charles F. Thwing.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS


RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - - - - CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS
Assistant Manager.- - - - - - AMY BROWN LYMAN
Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Magazine 

Vol. XIII AUGUST, 1926. No. 8
EDITORIAL