The Mother of Mothers in Israel.
Eliza R. Snow.
The study of histories and biographies judiciously perused gives one a liberal education, for not only are all the activities of life herein manifested, but the characters of men and women with the forces and elements which have contributed to successes and failures, are set before the reader with vivid pen-strokes. In the study of the greatest women of modern times, nay, the greatest women of all times, not excepting those Hebrew heroines whose names shine out on the pages of the Bible, we pass naturally from Lucy Mack Smith to her daughter-in-law, Mary Fielding Smith, and, then we come face to face with Eliza R. Snow. She had no children of her own, but she was indeed by nature and grace, the mother of all mothers in Israel. She revered motherhood next to fatherhood and her whole life was a dedication to the service of her sex in its most exalted phases of motherhood.
Eliza R. Snow was born on the 21st of January, 1804, in Becket, Berkshire County, Massachusetts, into a scholarly and refined household. She had every advantage of education and cultural surroundings. She early showed her poetic gifts and was invited, when only a girl of 22, to write a requiem for John Adams and Thomas Jefferson, whose simultaneous deaths, on July 24, 1826, afforded a worthy theme for the inspiration and lofty grandeur of her gifted, poetic pen. Her father had fought through the whole Revolution, and his stories of the hardships endured and the purpose thereof, were a never failing source of patriotic reverence to his studious daughter. Her parents removed to Mantua, Ohio, and there received the gospel. Eliza was baptised into the Church on the 5th of April, 1835, and she soon removed to Kirtland. She entered the family of the Prophet Joseph Smith as a governess for his children; and opened a select school for young ladies in his home. She wrote constantly, and all of her poems were saturated with devotion to her country and to her newly espoused religion. When the Saints settled in Nauvoo the young poetess accompanied them in their travels. What she endured, together with her parents and her noble brother, Lorenzo Snow who was later made President of the Church—could never be told. Pen could not write nor imagination conceive the difficulties which this delicately nurtured lady experienced in common with the others of her sex who belonged to the hated "Mormon" people.
On reaching Nauvoo she still continued her occupation of school teaching, and on the 29th of June, 1842, she was sealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith. She loved the Prophet Joseph with a deep and wide affection which only such natures may understand. All that others thought about him in honour and praise was reflected in double measure in her own consuming affection for this Prophet of God. She once answered a curious young girl, who had asked her an impertinent question concerning the measure of affection possible for the Prophet to feel under such circumstances: "I could not love my husband if I did not know that his heart was as broad as eternity."
Such sincere and exalted devotion cannot be understood outside of those who have embraced the gospel. So well did she love the Prophet that, although she accepted the generous offer of protection and a home from his best friend and his successor, Brigham Young, after her widowhood, that protection was in name only, and she did not even take the surname of President Young, but was always called by her public name, Eliza R. Snow.
When the first Relief Society was organised on March 17, 1842, Eliza R. Snow was chosen as the secretary, on that historic occasion. A little incident which shows the high esteem in which the Prophet held her follows: When the Prophet came into the Relief Society meeting, she asked him concerning the time, and taking out his own watch he laid it upon the table beside her and said, "Here is a timepiece and you may keep it, from me." That watch was presented by Sister Snow to her beloved friend and nephew, President Joseph F. Smith. (See illustration.)
Sister Eliza R. Snow faithfully kept the minutes of the Relief Society meetings held for the next two years in Nauvoo, and the original records are now deposited in the Historian's office where they are treasured as a rare relic of those days. When the Nauvoo temple was opened just after the martyrdom, Eliza R. Snow was chosen to officiate as one of the High Priestesses in that sacred court. After the Saints were driven out she shared in the dreadful exposures and hardships that followed the expulsion from Nauvoo. She learned to drive an ox team herself, and while resting for a few months in a miserable log house, laid up like children's cob houses, with cracks in it from one to four inches wide and only a tent covering over the top, Sister Snow was taken sick with chills and fever. This was in Winter Quarters, in August, 1846-7, and here, for some months, her life was despaired of. She did not entirely recover for many years from the dreadful exposures of that awful winter. And yet she sang! oh, how she sang! of love, of life, of faith, hope and charity. The sweetness and the benediction of peace fell like clouds of incense upon every line which she wrote. Her songs were sung around the camp-fire, and by weary men, along unbroken trails; they were crooned over the cradles by tender mothers, and hymned in the crowded meetinghouses of the Saints, while even children voiced her psalms of praise, as they trudged their way to school. Before she left Nauvoo, she wrote, "O, My Father," one of the most beloved hymns ever written for this people. And the hymn book discloses for us the wealth of her imagery, the beauty of her metres, and the exalted piety of her muse. She is one of the greatest, if not the greatest, hymn writers that this Church has produced. It would be impossible in the confines of this little sketch, to do anything like justice to her poetic powers or to analyse her as poet and writer. We suggest to the sisters of the Relief Society that they purchase her poems and read them occasionally, not only in their public assemblies, but on the Sabbath days, and in the evening hours of restfulness and reflection.
On arriving in Salt Lake City, in Sept., 1847, she was married to President Brigham Young, in 1849, for time only. She lived first in what was known as the Old Log Row, and there lay upon a bed of suffering for a number of years. She had consumption and nearly coughed and spit her lungs and life away, but through it all she was patient and sweet, and gently charitable, never offering one word of complaint nor criticism.
When the Lion House was completed, in 1856, she was given her quarters there. In May, 1855, when the Endowment House was opened, President Young asked Sister Eliza R. Snow to officiate as a Priestess in the Endowment House. She expressed fears that her health would not permit her to do justice to so important a mission, but he assured her that her health should improve, and that she should have joy in her labours to which the Lord had called her. About this time Sister Snow came across a book of Dr. Dio. Lewis's, recommending daily cold baths and plenty of fresh air. She immediately adopted this regime and those who sometimes peeped into her bed-room of a winter morning would find a wooden tub full of water with a thin coating of ice on it before her bed, all ready to be used for a morning ablution. Sister Snow never wholly recovered from the irritating little cough which was the only result from her long siege of consumption.
She was an exquisite seamstress. Her embroideries were works of art, and there is still extant a bed-spread embroidered by her, which is even now a thing of beauty. She made many temple robes and other garments for the clothing of the dead. She was never idle. If she were not writing or studying or conversing, you may be sure her hands were busy with some delicate needlework.
She was a marvel of patience. At one time a certain sister turned upon her and administered a bitter tongue lashing. Sister Snow did not reply, and when asked by a by-stander how she could endure such a thing quietly, Sister Snow replied that there was only one injured and that was the person who gave way to such violence of temper.
Even if she was generally patient, it was not because she had not the wit nor the quick intelligence to make reply. On one occasion, in the Lion House where Sister Snow always sat on the right hand side of President Brigham Young and where they frequently entered into instructing, and inspiring discourse, there had been considerable discussion in the family circle concerning the bringing up of children, to which Sister Snow had contributed: "I notice," said one of the tart spoken women present, "that it is always old maids and childless women who know most about bringing up children." Clearing her throat in her usual deliberate way, Sister Snow replied, "I would rather go into the Kingdom of Heaven childless than to bring up one son who would deny the faith," which fate, as to the son, overtook the tart spoken woman.
When President Young wished to have the Relief Society organised completely in all its branches, he gave Sister Eliza R. Snow the mission of assisting the bishops in this great work, and told her to take Sister Zina D. H. Young as her companion. This was in 1866, and from that day to her death, Sister Snow stood at the head of all organisation work for women in the Church. President John Taylor organised the General Boards, in 1888, and placed Sister Snow at the head of the Relief Society and the women in the Church. It was under her that all the wondrous departments in sericulture, suffrage, nurse classes, and woman's newspaper and woman's hospital, co-operative stores, Women's Relief Society halls, the saving of grain, and indeed every enterprise and activity known to women even today, germinated, and took root under her beneficent and marvellous organising powers.
Sister Snow visited Palestine, in 1872-3, with her brother, Lorenzo Snow and his party, and wrote a complete account of this in a series of letters which were afterwards published. She also wrote the biography of her brother, President Snow, and many other books, and volumes of poetry.
Sister Eliza R. Snow was in most respects the greatest woman this Church has produced. To her gifts as poet, writer, public speaker, high priestess in the temples, and ministering angel among women, she added the supreme gift of initiation. She knew how to handle women. When she entered a room or an assembly, no matter what condition things may have been in before her entrance, she at once dominated the gathering, and order followed immediately, for the whole essence of her personality was dignity and poise. Strife, petty contention, envy, malice, selfish ambition and worldliness, fled from her presence. She was the high priestess of the religion of Jesus Christ and as such she ministered amongst the people. She was the greatest organiser among the women this Church has ever seen. Others might suggest schemes and plans, but with prophetic poise and essence of values she seized upon the practical features, and instantly put into successful operation every proper suggestion and plan for the salvation of women and for the development of the home. She was ultra-progressive, and yet, with it all, she united a rigid adherence to the vital principles of the relation of the sexes as taught by the gospel. She organised Relief Societies in every town, village and ward. She travelled thousands of miles, and sometimes under the most trying pioneer circumstances, but no complaint ever passed her lips—nothing but rejoicing and words of peace and sweet sobriety. She encouraged women, and often suggested that other women should be put in charge of various departments, leaving them free to develop their own initiative and to carry on the work. There was nothing petty, spiteful or mean about Eliza R. Snow. She measured people accurately, and she had the power to inspire those who came near her, with the desire to do their very best. She had an eloquence born of the lambent flame of inspiration and when she spoke, her words were so simple, so direct and so impassioned that her hearers caught them breathlessly and treasured them forever in their hearts. She led out in all measures of reform. When President Brigham Young desired the sisters to create their own fashions, and wished them to adopt some local costume, Sister Snow, together with a few equally courageous ones, developed the hideous Deseret costume which was a cross between Mrs. Bloomer's dress and the clothing of the Oriental women. She braided hats and wore them. She crocheted collars and wore them, and always she believed that the beauty of the raiment of the woman should be the workmanship of her own hands.
Supreme among all her characteristics was her reverence for the priesthood. She took no honours to herself. She asked for no personal glory. She recognised the fact that not only should the priesthood be honoured above all things in heaven and on the earth, but also she knew that those who were the vicegerents of God upon this earth had offered to women, without suggestion and without request, the highest honours and rights which women have ever enjoyed upon this earth. She would permit no woman to take credit for the organisation of the Relief Society which had come as a direct revelation to the Prophet Joseph himself, nor would she allow any woman, much less herself, any honour for the reorganisation of that Society in the valleys of the mountains, nor for the inception of the Young Ladies' Retrenchment, later the Improvement, Association, nor for the Primary Association. Scan her writings, examine her reports, study her recorded speeches, and you will find in them all, that absence of self-glorification, that quick willingness to give to God the glory, and to accord to his servants what earthly credit there may be for the various opportunities given to women and children in this Church. She possessed great initiative, and yet so quietly and modestly did she work that few guessed the springs of their own activity, because she adroitly set them in motion and watched with unselfish joy the successful results. She despised flattery and adulation, nor would she permit herself to be showered with honours. She succeeded completely in losing herself in Christ Jesus. It is this majestic humility which added so much to the sum of her greatness.
In and through it all, she was a mother to all mothers. No night was too dark, no distance too great, for her to go out and administer to the sick child or to the discouraged mother. She has waited upon thousands and has washed and anointed multitudes of prospective mothers for their future confinements. Always her voice was lifted in praise and honour for full and complete motherhood. She gloried in the woman who bore children repeatedly and continuously. She would often point out in assemblies the mothers of large families as the bright and beautiful exemplars for the rest of the community. And yet, she had no children of her own. It may be that when eternity unfolds the doors, we shall know why she and other childless wives have been denied this great and priceless blessing. Ye childless mothers, it is only when ye turn your hearts and empty arms to minister to other women blessed and burdened with little children and cares, that ye can bear your burdens of loneliness and sad regret.
Eliza R. Snow died on the 5th of December, 1887, in the historic old Lion House. She was attended, in her later sickness, by her beloved friends, Zina D. Young, Lucy B. Young, and Minerva W. Snow. President Lorenzo Snow asked the latter to remain with his sister until the last, and this she did. Sister Snow was tall and slender, with dark eyes and dark-brown hair. She was deliberate in speech and manner, and very dignified. Everyone thought of some Hebrew prophetess when she was near. Herself almost without fault, she was never critical of faults in others, requiring only justice for herself. She poured the vial of mercy upon all who came within the radius of her presence. She was and is a pattern for all Latter-day Saint women to emulate. May her rest be glorious.
ZION PROSPERS, ALL IS WELL
By Eliza R. Snow.
O awake my slumbering minstrel, Let my harp forget its spell Say, O say, in sweetest accents, Zion prospers, all is well.
Strike a chord unknown to sadness, Strike, and let its numbers tell, In celestial tones of gladness, Zion prospers, all is well.
Zion's welfare is my portion, And I feel my bosom swell With a warm, divine emotion. When she prospers, all is well.