A Wondrous Woman's Book.
Ida Husted Harper.—Washington. A notable addition has just been made to the Library of Congress in the presentation, by Mrs. Ida Husted Harper, of her magazine and newspaper articles on woman suffrage, and the various phases of the so-called woman question during the past twenty years. They are preserved in twelve large, handsomely bound scrap books, the contents of each indicated by gold lettering on the red backs. Every volume is carefully indexed and altogether they offer a mine of information on this much discussed question which will gladly be taken advantage of by those who are interested.
The books represent what may be termed the current events relating to woman suffrage and the general progress of women during this long period, as week by week and year by year they take up the points of special prominence just at that moment. It was during this time that Mrs. Harper wrote the Biography of Susan B. Anthony, and the last volume of the History of Woman Suffrage, and the fund of information which it was necessary to acquire for this work contributed to the accuracy of these articles, so they are likely to be largely drawn upon by future writers on the subjects they cover.
By no means the least important part of this collection are the volumes containing the accounts of the great international congresses of women held in Europe, beginning with the International Council of Women in London, in 1899. This was followed by others in Berlin, Copenhagen, Paris, Geneva, The Hague, Amsterdam, Budapest and on down to the large meeting at Rome, in 1914. Graphic descriptions are given, from the view point of a delegate and speaker, of the distinguished people in attendance, the courtesies extended by the municipalities, the receptions by queens, empresses, the nobility and others of note, garden parties, visits to institutions, etc. Accompanying these are invitations, menus, pictures and souvenirs of many kinds.
One page of maiden hair ferns and delicate blossoms is inscribed: "Gathered in the little conservatory at the foot of the stairs leading to Tennyson's study." Under a cluster of pressed roses is written: "Placed in my hands by Queen Margherita of Italy;" and under another: "A rose from the bouquet of Eleanore Duse."
In no other library in any country can a collection of these congress letters be found, and they are all the record that exists of these cosmopolitan meetings, except the official business reports, while the social festivities are their life and charm.
A very interesting feature is the number of autograph letters from eminent people in the United States and Europe, some of them possessing a value even beyond their signatures. In leaving these and other mementos in the books, Mrs. Harper has shown a commendable faith in the honesty of the readers.
Two volumes of especial interest are made up entirely of the series of articles that ran continuously for five years, 1899-1903, in the New York Sunday Sun. This was a period when the words "woman suffrage" seldom appeared in the newspapers and they attracted much attention because of their wide range, fearlessness and satire. Men were much rasher in their printed utterances than nowadays, and they were flayed without mercy, while the women "antis," who were just beginning to organise, were joyfully held up to scorn. These several hundred articles give an accurate pen picture of public sentiment on the woman question ten or fifteen years ago, and they record also practically every important step of progress. It was largely through the influence of Miss Anthony that the Sun began the publication of these articles and she followed them closely and with the keenest interest. This was also true of Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton and several of her letters are given in which she urges that they be put in some kind of permanent form and makes suggestions for future writing. Some characteristic of Miss Anthony is inserted, telling how she hurries home from church to read the articles, and a copy of a protest she sent Mr. Dana because one of them was cut! She carefully preserved them in scrap books of her own. Mrs. Harper herself has added a graphic account of how they happened to be written, and has made copious annotations for the assistance of readers.
The opening of the national headquarters in New York, which marked an epoch in the movement, is depicted also the entrance of society leaders into the arena and the new regime of parades, street corner meetings, "hikes," and all the publicity features which are distinctive of the present day contest for the ballot. The books might be characterised as the unrolling of a panorama of the march of woman suffrage.
The story is told of many suffrage campaigns, including that of California in 1896, the first which attracted the attention of the country at large. Hearings before Congressional Committees are given the granting of partial suffrage in various States and the action of Legislatures recorded. The suffrage question is discussed from every point of view, beginning when it was chiefly academic, and every possible objection is analysed and answered. As the years go by, its development is followed into practical politics, and the later volumes describe the victories in the Western states, and the effects of women's enfranchisement on the laws, their election to office, etc. Considerable space is allotted in the books of 1914 and 1915 to the discussion of a national amendment and the debates and votes in Congress.
Through all the early volumes, the personality of Miss Anthony runs like a thread of gold, as many of them were written while Mrs. Harper was in her home and they were working on the History of Woman Suffrage, and Miss Anthony's biography. For about ten years before her death, their association was very close, each assisting the other. Miss Anthony always said that Mrs. Harper's pen came to her help just as Mrs. Stanton's was laid aside. A number of Miss Anthony's articles also are contained in these books, and some which they wrote together.
Mrs. Harper lived to see both Mrs. Stanton and Miss Anthony pass from earth and to preserve in these volumes the tributes of the press to their memory and her own appreciation of their character expressed in various magazine articles.
It has evidently been a good deal of a sacrifice for Mrs. Harper to part with these books, which have been her companions for many years, but she gives her motive in a brief note of presentation in which she says:
"These scrap books contain a considerable part of my magazine and newspaper articles for the past twenty years. They performed their mission at the time they were published, and, like all such ephemeral work, were not preserved by others in connected form. Because of their associations and their convenience for reference they possess a special value for me, but I think that at this time, when there is so much study of the woman suffrage question, they should render more general service. For this reason I present them to the Library of Congress, although with the feeling of parting from my children. * * * Aside from the assistance which they may offer to students, present and future, their illustrations of the gradual evolution of public sentiment, and the strenuous objections of the opponents, will probably interest and amuse.
"I am deeply appreciative of the opportunity offered by this great Library to preserve these records."
The "records" consist of over 1,800 pages and form a collection of data which never can be duplicated. In placing them upon its shelves the Library of Congress is able to offer, for purposes of research, material which cannot be found anywhere else in the world.
Home Science Department.
Juliette A. Hyde.
During the April conference, this department will hold a session on Saturday afternoon, April 8, at 2 o'clock, in the Bishop's Building. The General Committee will have charge of the convention work, and they will be assisted by experts from the Agricultural College. Discussions will be in order, and all problems and questions which the stake workers may desire to present can be brought forward at this time. We, therefore, invite the cordial co-operation of all visiting stake officers, and specially invite such chairmen of