Query Box.
Hazel Love Dunford.
[This department is in receipt of some anonymous letters. We cannot print such letters, nor can we answer the writers privately for we have no name nor address. The usual rule of refusing to accept or publish unsigned letters must obtain in this department.]
Mrs. C, Richfield—Latter-day Saint women who have been through the temple know the rules of this Church regarding the wearing of low-necked and short sleeved dresses. When they break those rules, they must suffer the certain consequences of disobedience. But you and I will not be blamed for other people's faults and sins. Let us watch our own lives carefully that we may not become stumbling blocks.
Can you tell me where we get the letters P. S., as used at the bottom of a letter?—c. r. d.
These letters are an abbreviation of the Latin phrase post scriptum, written afterwards in English. The words postscript has become a noun, the words written at the bottom of a letter, with the prefix P. S., being spoken of as the postscript.
A young writer wants to know our ideas on teasing and playing with children before they are put to bed.
In my opinion it is a selfish form of amusement and should never be allowed. It is practised many times by cruel, thoughtless persons, early in the evening. A child becomes nervous and excited, and it is almost impossible for a good, peaceful night's rest to follow. Many a mother has lost hours of sleep because some senseless adult tossed and bounced her baby before he took his bottle and went to bed. The hour before bed-time should be quiet and happy. A good plan is to tell the babies a simple story, let them hear some soft music, or look at some good pictures, and generally this will put the child in a condition for sleep.
I know that milk is a very valuable food, but my children do not care for it. Can you suggest any way that I might use to induce them to like it?—t. f.
It is indeed unfortunate if your children, as you say, do not like the taste of milk, but this is very often the case. Milk is one of the best foods for young children, because it contains all the food elements required to meet the body demands. Try offering a little reward for a cup of milk. Often a dislike is merely a whim, and can be overcome in some such way. You might add a little spice as nutmeg, cinnamon, etc., or make with a little weak cream use milk for the liquid. You may find that your children will enjoy buttermilk where they will not taste sweet milk.
My young daughter insists on wearing low-neck dresses and short sleeves to school. All that I can say or do seems to have no effect. "Other girls do, why should I not be allowed to do so?" is what she always ends up with.—a. b. c.
There is an alarming number of our Latter-day Saint girls appearing at school and elsewhere in ridiculously low-cut dresses. It seems to me that parents and school authorities are the only ones to handle this problem. It is largely a question of "doing as the other fellow does." If a leader in a crowd could be made to see that it were not the right thing and she were converted, there would soon be a change.
Cracked eggs may be boiled, if they are to be served that way, provided the inner skins are not broken. Add a tablespoon of salt to the water, or sprinkle salt on the egg over the crack. They will cook without a particle of white escaping.
A little salt added to the bowl of cream will help if you have been unable to get it to stiffen in beating.
An old flour sifter that has lost its value as a sieve makes an excellent egg boiler, as the eggs may all be placed in the water at once and also removed at once when done.
Children will be delighted with a variation of the old coloured Easter eggs. When the eggs have been boiled and cooled, draw flowers' names, bunnies, etc., by using slit pen dipped in melted wax for ink, drop in dye, and the result—white figures with coloured back-ground.
Mrs. Marvine Brown from Manassa, Colorado, writes to know if we can tell her what to do for her gums and teeth. She says, "My gums are falling away from my teeth and at times are a fiery red and very sore."
From your description I am almost sure you are suffering from pyorrhea. I know of no better thing to use than ipecac. Get a small quantity and rub it over your gums and they will soon harden up again unless your case is too far gone. In that case we advise you to consult a first class dentist. Keep the teeth very clean. Salt and water is a very poor cure for this disease. It has a tendency to contract the gums. You need more acid in your system and less salt and soda. Try lemons once a day.