[Vol35 | July 1948 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Relief News]
—JULY 1948 arrangement was very fine. 'The women made green crepe paper flounces on pint bottles for vases. It was interesting to watch them and see the art with which they work. I have never seen them so interested in anything before. Claudina, their Y. W. M. I. A. President, planned the program. It was all Indian and very fine. The program lasted about an hour. It was well worth the money without the dinner—violin solos, duets, quartets, stories, and Indian dances. We planned on serving two hundred and served more than three hundred. We had to send out and get cake and ice cream to give the ones that helped. It was a real thrill to me and they are so happy and so proud that they could do it. The money is such a small part of the good that has been done. Thanks for the opportunity to help these people. Martina Schurtz, our Papago president, lives in Mesa and works at a cleaners. She misses work every Monday and goes to her meetings. That means eight dollars a week or thirty-two dollars a month to attend Relief Society. That is a lot for anyone to give but for an Indian woman who works for a living, I feel she is making more of a sacrifice than anyone else I know. After sending the $135 to you they will have over $200 left to get something for their association. We are anxious for them to get a good electric machine, an iron, and cabinets to keep their things in. Our Spanish ward had a banquet or Spanish dinner to raise their fund. Some gave the five dollars but so many could not. They all helped with it and it was very fine. Josephine Mortensen is a very splendid person and a real leader. They were the first ward to go over the top and of course were very proud of it. Mable King, our music leader, helped with their program and it was very good. At our Papago dinner President Lorenzo Wright paid honor to Josephine our Spanish president as we did not have a chance at their program. They work so hard and have many difficulties to overcome that we do not have in our other wards. This makes us appreciate the advantages we have. PAPAGO WARD, MARICOPA STAKE, COMPLETES ITS BUILDING QUOTA April 19, 1948
This photograph was taken the night of the banquet and bazaar so interestingly described by Stake Relief Society President Vida D. Brinton in her letter which is printed herewith. RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING NEWS 443 RICHMOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, WASHINGTON STAKE, PRESENTS BUILDING QUOTA TO STAKE PRESIDENT April 30, 1948
Left to right: Secretary-Treasurer, Eleanor P. Gill, Florence Buster; President Gertrude M. Smoot; Second Counselor Lucille Blackman; Gwendolyn T. Gwynn, President, Washington Stake Relief Society. Sister Marian V. Elman comments on the very fine accomplishment of the sisters of this ward: "We feel that special recognition should be given these dear sisters who, in only two and a half months, raised their Relief Society building fund quota, being the first society in their stake to make this accomplishment.... The members of this society do not possess a great deal of worldly goods... But they consist mostly of sincere and humble converts to the gospel, who, with humility and prayers in their hearts, set out to do a job which was assigned them to do.... They have also a small dependent Relief Society at Bumpass, Virginia... Which raised $35 and a dependent Sunday School in Howertons, Virginia, which donated $10 toward the quota." MISSIONS WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS NorTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION EASTERN STATES MIssION SAMOAN MiIssION New ZEALAND Mission STAKES WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS South Idaho Falls (Idaho) Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) San Diego Stake (California) Wells Stake (Utah) Teton Stake (Idaho and Wyoming) Granite Stake (Utah) North Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) Emigration Stake (Utah) Mesa Stake (Arizona) Rexburg Stake (Idaho) Uvada Stake (Nevada and Utah) Utah Stake (Utah) Seattle Stake (Washington) San Juan South Los Angeles Stake (Calif.) Juarez Stake (Mexico) Florida Stake (Florida) Temple View Stake (Utah) Bear River Stake (Utah) Paro WAN Stake (Utah) Liberty Stake (Utah) Smithfield Stake (Utah) Sugar House Stake (Utah) Salt Lake Stake (Utah) San Luis Stake (Colorado) Oneida Stake (Idaho) Tooele Stake (Utah) Stake (Utah)
