[Vol35 | July 1948 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Literature of]

These are as much needed today as they ever were. We can "go about doing good." "Ye shall do the work which ye see me do." << of sterature—Literature of the Latter-day Saints Literature of the Gospel Restoration Elder Howard R. Driggs Preview of Lessons for 1948-49 LITERATURE 479 in its' broadest sense applies to all that is written.
Thus we may speak of the literature of mathematics, of science, of philosophy, of commerce, of advertising, or of any other field of study or activity. In a more restrictive sense, however, the term literature means that body of writings characterized by artistry of expression, of creative skill in portraying life, impressing truth, as in poetry, drama, fiction, oratory, essays, or sermons. A synonymous term suggestive of this product of literary art is belle-lettres.
This course on "Literature of the Latter-day Saints" —a pioneering venture—obviously cannot be spread over the whole field; nor can it be held within the narrow one.
What is planned is a series of studies that will deal with such literature of varied types as portrays truthfully the History, the character, the ideals of our people.
Whatever can be found that rings true to the highest and best in the epic rise of our Church may be presented for appreciation and uplift.
Naturally, in a two-year course, with eight lessons for each year, only the highlights of the alluring theme can be given attention. Yet from these selective lessons, carefully prepared by class leaders and members, should come a rich fruitage. Certainly these results from the work may be confidently expected:
First, help in clarifying the gospel as taught and lived by Latter-day Saints.
Second, an improved sense of selection, or skill to find true literature.
Third, new joy in discovery and enrichment from the best of our literature.
With a stream of materials, books and articles, pouring off the press, both within and without the Church, we need such guidance. Earnest, co-operative study will help to meet this basic need. Such training will save time and money and, better still, will give to those who take it a new and vitalized view of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
People live on through their earthly literature. Their hopes, ideals, achievements, written with artistry, continue to vibrate so long as the record endures and is read with understanding, with appreciation. Through the radiant influence of good books mankind may keep rising to higher levels, may gain guidance to follow ever the path of righteousness.
Think here of the scriptures. Have not the "chosen people" continued to live because of the "Old Testament"? What would we know of the creation, the patriarchs and the prophets—the epic story of the children of Israel—had this "Book of Books" not been created and preserved?
How much likewise would be known of our Savior had not Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John written the precious gospels? Or what would be known of the rise of the early Christian Church if Luke had not made vibrant record of it through "The Acts of the Apostles"; had not Paul and the other stalwarts who carried forward the divine work of the Master not written their epistles, and John not bequeathed to the world "The Revelation"? Truly our indebtedness to these holy men who through inspiration and devotion gave us these sacred scriptures, is great and lasting.
Latter-day Saints have added reason for gratitude. Through sacrificial efforts of other men of God our people have an enriched heritage of sacred literature. Our Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, and Pearl of Great Price add treasures of scriptural knowledge and dramatic stories to help vitalize the gospel, to give it greater clarity, and to teach people how more surely to live it. These volumes, together with the Bible, make the basic, the standard literature of our religion.
Dependable history of our Church and of its leaders and its members—constitutes another body of literature—ever being enriched and expanding as the great work progresses.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Significant incidents from this developing epic, events of dramatic cast and revealing import, truthfully, inspiringly written, help bring out the inner meaning of the gospel in action. Stories of the men and women who have lived it help to humanize the messages of the Savior as applied to today.' Words of truth and light from leaders and others who feel and know the gospel, help to interpret and impress it. Out of all this wealth of materials, too, may come songs and lyrics that live—stories and drama of stirring true-to-life cast, orations and sermons that impress truth. Our part is to discover these gems of expression, these life-giving thoughts, these dramatic events, and to appreciate them. To that end this series of what we hope may be practical and inspirational lessons is planned. For the first year the work will be on what may be called "Literature of the Gospel Restoration." A brief outline suggestive of the studycenters of this part of the course follows: 1. Literature of the Beginnings Background study of family and boyhood of Joseph Smith in source writings—and study from literary viewpoint of Joseph's own story of the restoration. 2. Highlights of the Book of Mormon Epic Study of some of the dramatic events portrayed in this new "Book of Books" —this from the standpoint of effective story-telling. 3. Gospel Messages from the Book of Mormon Study of distinctive contributions of religious import and of literary ceaatey in the Book of Mormon. 481 4. Words of Light and Truth From the Prophet Study of choice selections from the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith. 5. Earlier Evangelistic Literature Study of selected excerpts from diaries, autobiographies, and other writings by loyal ones who helped in establishing the Church through testing years. 6. Lyric Expression of the Restoration Study of gospel songs and other poetic expression vibrant with the message of the new dispensation. 7. Literary Sidelights of the Founding Years Study of selections from this expository literature written to clarify and impress basic principles of the restored gospel in action. 8. Literature of the Prophet's Closing Years Study of distinctive and dependable literature portraying soul-testing, dramatic incidents that mark the rise of the Church under the inspired leadership of the Prophet Joseph Smith. This spread of inviting work, may we again impress, represents a pioneering venture into a rich realm. It is entered into humbly with one thought, that of doing good. Our hope is not to cover the wide field with adequacy; rather do we trust that it may be opened alluringly, that new interest will be wakened, enjoyment and enrichment come to those who pioneer with us. Further, this first year's work on "Literature of the Gospel Restoration" should lay a good foundation for the second year's course which is to be centered round the general theme, "Literature of the Expanding Pioneer Period." 
 —JULY 1948
Lesson 1—Literature of the Beginnings Elder Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, October 19, 1948 OP letters often give living glimpses of the past. Thoughts, feelings, home news, comments on passing events, informally written to friends and loved ones, are revealing of the character of the writer as well as of the days in which he or she lived.
Sometimes such letters, in parts, rise to literary excellence; always they are source material of more or less help to historians and authors.
Fortunately for our present purpose, two such old letters have been preserved since the days when Washington was President of our Country.
They both were written by a stalwart American, Asael Smith, paternal grandfather of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and great-great-grandfather of George Albert Smith, now President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
This grandsire, born in 1744, twelve years after the "Father of our Country" came into the world, had lived through the stirring years of the French and Indian War, the Revolutionary War, in which he took part as a soldier of the American army, and on through the founding of our Nation to the year 1830, when our Church was organized. The first of these letters, written to a friend, Jacob Town, reveals Asael Smith as one of the solid New England type, God-fearing, patriotic, of loyal friendship, with independent spirit, and a sense of humor.
After acknowledging with appreciation a letter from his friend, telling with gratitude of the well-being of his family, and giving word of the building of a new home, Asael writes of a "noisy" political party just defeated in its hopes to seize power.
Then he comments: For my part, I am so willing to trust the government of the world in the hands of the Supreme Ruler of Universal Nature, that I do not, at present, wish to try to wrest it out of His hands.... He has conducted us through a glorious Revolution and has brought us into the promised land of peace and liberty; and I believe that He is about to bring all the world in the same beatitude in His own time and way.
Then comes this touch of pleasantry: Give my best regards to your parents and tell them I have taken up with the eleventh commandment, that the negro taught to the minister, which was thus— The minister asked the negro how many commandments there were and his answer was "'eleven, sir." "Aye," replied the other. "What is the eleventh?
That is one I have never heard of." "The eleventh commandment, sir, is mind your own business." So I choose to do.
Write to me as often and as large as you can and oblige your friend and wellwisher. (signed) Asael Smith The second letter, written for his family, and to be read after his death, contains such gems of religious thought as the following: The soul is immortal; you have to deal with an infinite Majesty. Do all to God in a serious manner; when you think of Him, speak of Him, pray of Him, or in any way make your LESSON DEPARTMENT addresses to His great Majesty, be in good carest.
Trifle not with His name nor with His attributes, nor call Him to witness to any thing but is absolute truth, If you find that you stand in need of a Savior, Christ saith: "Look unto me and Other gems of practical wisdom are in these lines from the letter: Above everything avoid a melancholy disposition, that is a humor that admits of any temptation and is capable of any impression and distemper. -Any honest calling will honor you, if you honor that.
Persevere in the way of well-doing and you may hope for success, The letter closes with this paragraph: and all, and myself... And wish to leave to you everything I have in this world but oblivion; but leaving my virtues, if ever I had any, to revive and live in you (B.H., Comprehensive History of the Church, I, PP. 7, 8, 9, 10, 12).
Surely the virtues of this grandsire have lived on in his Posterity and have been amplified for the everlasting good of mankind.
Another type of literature, Tepresented by the History of Joseph Smith, by His Mother, Lucy Mack Smith, brings us close to the Prophet's boyhood, and gives the story of his visions and soul-testing struggles through the earlier years of the restoration. All this is portrayed in its relation to loyal family life which characterized the Smith home. It is a story out of a loving, heroic mother heart. In straightforward narrative, with 483 richness of incidents such as women more than men treasure, the life of her son Joseph is portrayed.
Naturally the background of ancestry, of the struggles to make a livelihood in what was frontier Vermont and tugged western New York are given attention. One feels, too, the devout faith in God from the first through the Pages of the little volume. At times, too, the narration attains qualities of story-telling art. In chapter fifteen, for illustration, where heroic efforts are made with mother love and faith to save her son Joseph from a dangerous infection, the little drama js stirringly told.
Doctors had decided the boy's leg must be amputated, but the mother insisted that one more trial be made to save it.
This is the mother's story: The principal Surgeon....
Ordered cords to be brought to bind Joseph fast to a bedstead; but to this Joseph objected. The doctor, however, insisted that he must be confined, upon which Joseph said very decidedly, "No, doctor, I will not be bound, for I can bear the operation much better if I have my liberty!" "Then," said Dr. Stone, "will you drink some brandy?" "No," said Joseph, "not one drop!" "Will you take some wine?" rejoined the doctor. "You must take something, ation to which you must be subjected." " exclaimed Joseph, "I will not touch one particle of liquor, neither will I be tied down; but I will tell you what I will do—I will have my father sit on the bed and hold me in his arms, and then I will do whatever is necessary in order to have the bone taken out."
Looking at me, he said, "Mother, I want you to leave the room, for I know you cannot bear to see me suffer so; father can stand it, but you have carried me so much, and watched Over me so long, you are almost worn out." 484
Then looking up into my face, his eyes swimming in tears, he continued, "Now Mother, promise me that you will not stay, will you! The Lord will help me, and I shall get through with it." Another home drama of hearttouching quality is portrayed with like skill in chapter nineteen. Here the death of Alvin Smith, eldest brother of Joseph, is related. Again the tender mother love, the loyalty of the family, more closely drawn together through the persecutions heaped on them for the sake of devotion to the truth, are revealed. This faithful brother's counsel to all of them, and especially to his brother Joseph, is most impressive: "I am now going to die, the distress which I suffer, and the feelings that I have tell me my time is very short. I want you to be a good boy, and do everything that lies in your power to obtain the Record. Be faithful in receiving instruction, and in keeping every commandment that is given you. Your brother Alvin must leave you; but remember the example which he has set for you; and set the same example for the children that are younger than yourself, and always be kind to father and mother." How faithfully this beloved brother's counsel was followed is impressively revealed in the life story of the Prophet Joseph. Happily we have that story in his own straightforward words. With distinctive clarity of style and convincing detail—for all whose hearts and minds are open to accept spintual truth—the autobiographical sketch is written. Yet, whether accepted or not accepted, it has the qualities of a classic—it will be read and re-read down the ages. What gives to this life-story such classic qualities? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948
Its central message that God lives.
This the boy expressed with simple, trenchant words: I had actually seen a light, and in the midst of that light I saw two Personages, and they did in reality speak to me; and though I was hated and persecuted for saying that I had seen a vision, yet it was true; and while they were persecuting me.... I was led to say in my heart: Why persecute me for telling the truth? I have actually seen a vision; and who am I that I can withstand God, or why does the world think to make me deny what I have actually seen? For I had seen a vision; I knew it, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny it, neither dared I do it; at least I knew that by so doing I would offend God, and come under condemnation.: Here is a courageous statement that will ever stand high in religious literature of the world. It is a buming testimony of truth out of the soul of a youth who had been given a divine work to do.
With his characteristic straightforward style, Joseph Smith relates the rest of the story of the gospel restoration as he lived it. It is a simple, direct, natural unfolding of a stirring sequence of events.
From a literary viewpoint, like other ef fective narration, it moves forward with clarity of sentences, and orderly paragraphs.
Such writings may be compared to a chain made up of "story links." Observe, for illustration, this construction of "Joseph Smith's Own Story."
After a brief paragraph on his birth in old Vermont, and of the new home in western New York, this chain of events is given: Religious Conflict; A Boy's Problem; Biblical Wisdom; First Prayer; Divine Answer; Derision and Ostracism; Heroic Testimony of the LESSON DEPARTMENT Truth; Lonely, Wayward Years; "An Angel from on High"; A Precious Record Revealed; Further Test and Training; Treasures Delivered; Struggles Against Evil-minded Men; Record with God's Help Translated; Publishing of Sacred Scripture; Organization of Church.
Apart from the divine import of this stirring epic which has taken its everlasting place in religious literature, there are basic characteristics that give it classic quality. First, it rings of sincerity; second, it has clarity and the charm of simple directness; third, it is portrayed with details that add vividness and—for those of open, spiritual mind and heart—truth.
Great literature is lived before it is written. 'This means that what it portrays must be intrinsically a throbbing part of the author who brings it forth. Certainly Joseph Smith lived in reality the story of the gospel restoration. He lived the inner spirit and divine meaning of the Book of Mormon, and other great literature which, under inspiration of God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ, he gave to the hungering world.
Ours is a precious privilege to come, through these books and the other literature bequeathed to us by this Prophet of these latter days, into close and uplifting relationship with his inspired and continuing life.
Studies and Activities Note: This lesson on Literature of the Beginnings—it should be kept clearly in mind by teachers and class members—is not to be made merely a study of history, though historical matters naturally will 485 play a part in the study. The central purpose of the lesson and of all the other lessons of the course will be best served by giving major attention to the literary aspect of what is studied. First, in dealing with old letters—it may be well to have the second letter of Asael Smith read for the helpful messages it carries—and a brief discussion of what wellwritten letters may mean in the preserving of the past—and in their help for histon ans and writers of literature. Second, it will be well also to have some member of the class read aloud the story told in chapter fifteen (History of Joseph Smith By His Mother Lucy Mack Smith), of the Saving of the Boy Joseph—as an example of story-telling art.
What qualities make it an effective story? Third, it is urged that the missionary pamphlet, Joseph Smith Tells His Own Story, be obtained by the teacher and the members of the class, so far as this is practicable.
With it in hand, the study of the story, not alone for the message it contains—but also—and with emphasis—for appreciation of its literary qualities, can be more interestingly made. Fourth, teachers and class members naturally will be impelled to search out other ° firsthand literature which helps bring out vividly the days of the beginning when Joseph Smith as a youth received his divine message from the Father and the Son— and the visitations of the Angel Moroni.
Whatever is appropriate to help enrich and vitalize this study should of course be contributed—but with this caution: Do not permit the lesson to go too far afield.
Keep it true to its central purpose—make it a study of literature that truly portrays the story, the ideals, the fundamental principles of the gospel. References Documentary History of the Church, Vol. 1. Roberts, B. H., A Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. 1.
History of Joseph Smith 
By His Mother Lucy Mack Smith, Edited by Preston Nibley, 1945, Stevens and Wallis, Inc. Joseph Smith Tells His Own Story— A Missionary Pamphlet. Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith: 2. 
 —JULY 1948