[Vol35 | July 1948 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: The Seventh Handcart Johnson]

The Seventh Handcart Company Anna S. D. Johnson S I looked upon the monument recently erected on Temple Square, Salt Lake City, honoring the ten handcart companies, I was deeply moved, for it symbolized faith and hope and brought to memory the privation and suffering of the Seventh Handcart Company in which many stalwart and faithful people came to Salt Lake Valley. In the summer of 1850, Apostle Erastus Snow, with three other missionaries, went to Europe to open the Scandinavian mission. Five young men, three born in Copenhagen and two nearby, all between the ages of eighteen and twentytwo, became very much interested in this new and different religion called Mormonism. They attended the first meeting with renewed spirit, and then, after about three months, three of these young men were converted and baptized. Before another year passed the other two boys also joined the Church. Being of strong character, they were anxious to do whatever was asked of them. President Snow set them apart as: local missionaries to travel without purse or scrip to preach the gospel in Denmark and Norway. During the five to seven years they spent as missionaries, they were mobbed, thrown into prison, and went through much persecution. But, despite these hardships, they converted many. The greatest joy of their lives was realized when they were released to come to Zion, bringing with them their fiancees and families whom they had converted. These young men planned to be married upon reaching the Great Salt Lake Valley, but when they arrived in Liverpool, they discovered that Elder John Kay was returning to Zion on the same boat, The Westmoreland, with them, and it was unanimously decided that he should marry the young couples before setting sail. What a thrilling romance to be married in such a manner! Mr. Deacon, captain of The Westmoreland, did his share in making a pleasant reception on the ship. About 500 saints and emigrants were aboard. Most of the passengers were friends and converts, happy with the thought of coming to Zion, and all joined in a joyous outburst of song and hurrahs in congratulation to these five young couples. The crossing took thirty-six days. The emigrants landed up the river near the Philadelphia shore. What happiness they expressed as_ they touched their feet on American soil! A diary of 1857 states: They then traveled until they came to a place below Iowa City which was green and lovely, with a spring nearby. Here they were met by President John Taylor, who gave them instructions on how to prepare for the trek across the plains. How little they knew what lay before them! All was joyous and, after three weeks' preparation, they were hurrying on their way, knowing the fate of the Fifth and Sixth Handcart Page 449 450
Torleif Knaphus HANDCART MONUMENT, TEMPLE SQUARE, SALT LAKE CITY RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948
Nor gold nor glory their exalted quest Who won for East the wide unconquered West They toiled o'er frozen crest, o'er parching plain, Eternal wealth in higher worlds to gain.
Forever in remembrance let them be, 'Who gave their all for truth and liberty. Orson F. Whitney Companies of the previous year which were not well prepared, and started out too late in the season and were caught in the winter blasts on the plains, many of whom had perished before help came. The Seventh Company, consisting of 334 persons, left Iowa on July 3, 1857.
These young couples were light-hearted and gay, singing around the campfires, dancing, holding meetings, and praying together mornings and evenings. However, the trip was arduous and soon food had to be rationed and often they had to go more than a day without —Orson F.
Whitney water.
Then came great thunderstorms.
They still trudged on.
Such privation and physical endurance was unknown to them.
They climbed up and down heavy sand hills and tried to follow the covered wagon trails. Then, besides these troubles, there were the ditches, streams, and creeks which must be waded. The most dangerous place was at Loup Fork where the stream was a mile wide.
Here the children were placed in the handcarts but the water came up in the carts and frightened the children. Two ox teams carried the old and sick. The women clung together and got across as best they THE SEVENTH HANDCART COMPANY could. The Indians came to their assistance, but yet it took two days to cross the stream.
After crossing Loup Fork, the walking was hard and many times one or more would have to drop at the wayside because they were too weak to go on. The trials seemed almost beyond human endurance, but the saints had spirit and courage, and they traveled on to reach their goal. At Wood River, one of the mothers left camp and, with the help of devoted friends, gave birth to a baby girl and returned to camp the following morning, carrying the child in her apron, and continued on the trek.
Indeed it was a strenuous journey, as one-tenth of the company died. Yet the only time my mother mentioned the hardships was when her shoes wore out and she used burlap around her swollen, 451 bleeding feet to protect them from the thin ice that had formed on the streams.
Many had tom, bare feet when they arrived. For three weeks they were without meat, and not one of them dared kill a buffalo for fear of a stampede.
This was understandable, for none of the company was much used to firearms. As they were traveling, many unusual things occurred. Of much interest was the Johnston Army of 1857, traveling on the other side of the Platte River with their bountiful supply of everything.
What they thought of this poor handcart company will never be known, but one day one of the army officers approached the handcart camp and said very kindly that one of their oxen had had its foot crushed and if they cared for the (Continued on page 501) From a painting by C. C. A.