[Vol35 | July 1948 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Summer Swain]
Summer  Days 
Vesta  P.  Crawford 
SUMMER  brings  a  rich  array  of  colorful  blossoms,  offering  such  exquisite  variety  in 
form  and  color  that  many  different  floral  compositions  may  be  designed. 
Remember  that  it  is  better  to  use  a  few  flowers  in  any  arrangement  than  to  bunch 
them  closely.  Lightness  and  grace  are  fundamental  to  the  perfection  of  a  floral 
symphony. 
Many  homemakers  who  have  a  special  gift  for  color  appreciation  find  that  a  flower 
arrangement  which  uses  different  tones  of  the  same  color  is  a  delightful  diversion.  Pale 
pink  roses  as  the  center  of  interest,  combined  with  deeper  pink  gypsophila  or  forget- 
me-nots,  make  a  bouquet  that  will  not  soon  be  forgotten.  One  tall  spike  of  deep  pink 
delphinium  might  add  grace  to  such  an  arrangement.  It  is  a  delight  to  use  the  various 
tones  of  blue,  or  blue  with  white,  for  summer  designs. 
For  a  regal  design  of  dignified  formality,  use  gladioli,  being  most  careful  to  cut  the 
stems  in  various  lengths  so  that  the  topmost  buds  will  be  graduated  points  of  interest 
and  the  composition  as  a  whole  will  have  a  pleasing  pattern. 
The  following  illustrations  show  the  variety  and  attractiveness  in  flower  arrange- 
ments that  may  be  secured  by  carefully  selecting  blossoms  for  size,  tone  quality,  length 
of  stems,  and  particularly,  by  the  use  of  originality  in  selecting  appropriate  containers 
for  summer  flowers. 
W.  Atlee  Burpee 
"ALLDOUBLE"  PETUNIAS 
These  intricately  ruffled  petunias  are  the  first  truly  "alldouble"  type  created  in 
America.  This  arrangement  is  composed  of  various  blendings  of  pale  pink  to  dark  rose 
color. 
Paae  456

Grace  T.  Kirton 
A  SYMPHONY  IN  PINK 
Note  the  graceful  lines  of  the  vase  and  the  accent  motif  provided  by  the  little 
figurine  at  the  right.

^,v#-^^ 
1^ W.  Atlee  Burpee 
RUBY  LARKSPUR 
Grace  T.  Kirton 
MOTTLED  SEGO  LILIES 
The  rich  dark-colored  blossoms  are  pat-  Fragile  blossoms  in  a   tall  crystal  vase, 
terned  in  a  triangular-shaped  bouquet  in  a       The  larger,  fully  opened  flowers  are  placed 
cream-white,  flat  bowl.  at  the  base  of  the  design. 
W.  Atlee  Burpee 
ELEANOR  PETUNIAS 
Pale-colored  petals  marked  with  dark 
red  throats  make  a  striking  design  in  this 
rustic  wood  bowl. 
W.  Atlee  Burpee 
CHRYSANTHEMUM-FLOWERED 
ZINNIAS 
The  dark,  gold-colored  flowers  appear 
at  the  base  of  this  floral  design,  with  the 
pale-colored  blossoms  at  the  top.