[Vol54 | July 1967 | Page 510 | Fiction | General Features Editorial: "The Woman's Role in Family Preparedness" Louise | W. Madsen]
[General Features Editorial: "The Woman's Role in Family Preparedness" Louise W. Madsen]

To use her talents and discover new ones, to bring to the fore her innate abilities and add to them, to listen to words of counsel and implement them, this, too, is the: role of a woman. Of greater desirability than diamonds is the ability to buy wisely. "The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her...'' (Proverbs 31:11). Frequently, the actual spending of the food and clothing money is entrusted to the wife. While the guidelines for spending are laid in a carefully planned budget, deliberately tailored to the income, needs, and desires of her particular family, she must use wisdom in every expenditure. Family preparedness requires storage of food, clothing, and other items for future use. One of the cardinal rules in storage is that each family decide what to store. Another rule concerns use and replacement, rotation of items to keep them in good condition. A wise woman plans her shopping with these rules in mind. Of more worth than pearls is a woman who ''worketh willingly with her hands' (Proverbs 31:13), who uses her talents to make her home a heaven and a haven. She who seeks to increase her knowledge of homemaking skills, who learns the basic arts, is prepared to meet the contingencies. Proverbs explains her security in these words, "She is not afraid of the snow for her household: for all her household are clothed with scarlet."'. Better than silver or gold is her ability to save. To economize, to be thrifty, to make do, to keep her yearnings within family earnings, bring the goal of being prepared within reach. Often it becomes the lot of the mother to exercise a restraining hand in the matter of acquiring luxuries. A provident housewife is a blessing to her family. Better than the whole galaxy of precious gems and riches is a woman who knows her responsibilities and fulfills them, who uses her capabilities and increases them, who hears the counsel of those in authority and follows it, whose desire is her family's good and she works for it, and who seeks to be a helpmate to her husband and achieves it. L. W. M. 511 Ramona W. Cannon Dr. Patricia Marie Smith of Seattle, Washington, has practiced medicine among the Montagnards of South Viet Nam since 1959, She now operates a forty-bed hospital, and in the past three and a half years more than 12,000 patients have been treated in her hospital, and thousands of ''out patients"' have been cared for. Among the Montagnards, she is known as "Ya Pagang Tih Big Grandmother of all Medicine." Dr. Mary I. Bunting, President of Radcliffe College, has a Ph. D. In microbiology, and advocates continuing education for mothers and homemakers. Herself a mother, she believes that home study can be combined successfully with motherhood. She emphasizes the need for trained women in many fields of social service work, and in such positions as members of school boards and in other organizations having influence on the welfare of children. Jean Saubert, former Olympic ski champion, regarded by many as the best woman skiier in American history, is now a schoolteacher in the mountain resort town of Vail, Colorado. A graduate of the University of Utah, and a native of Idaho, Miss Saubert was rated as the second best woman skiier in the world in 1964 by the International Ski Federation. Peggy Fleming, eighteen, Colorado College freshman, won the women's crown at the world figure skating championship events in Vienna, Austria, in March 1967. In this second year of her championship award, she won the decision of all nine judges. 512 Berta H. Christensen, a member of the General Board of Relief Society, in April, placed first in the Utah State Poetry Society Annual Book Manuscript Award Contest. Her manuscript, ''Walk the Proud Morning,' also won the Linnie Fisher Robinson $100 cash award. The book will be published during the summer and will be presented at a poetry concert in Salt Lake City, Utah, in October. Bethany Beardslee, soprano, has won international fame through her premiere performances of vocal works by Stravinsky, Berg, Schoenberg, and Webern. She has ''a superb voice of pure color and lyric inflection."" A graduate of the Juilliard School of Music, she has sung with the New York Pro Musica, and the Boston, Minneapolis, and St. Louis symphonies. Her 1966 concerts at Stanford University, California, during the summer, will include a lecture on ''Vocal Techniques for 20th Century Music." Marjorie Merriweather Post May has re-_ ceived medals and awards from six na-- tions and more than thirty associations for her charitable work. Among the recipients of her philanthropies are the Red Cross, the Washington National Symphony, and a number of colleges.