[Vol48 | October 1961 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social]
[Social Science — - Motherhood, the Highest Type of Service Ariel S. Ballif 703]
urer; third,  Naomi  Carr,  social  science  class  leader;  Ellen  Blair,  Magazine  representative. 
Photos:ra))h   submitted   by   Alta   Fuhriman 
NAMPA  STAKE    (IDAHO)    RELIEF   SOCIETY  PRESIDENTS  HONORED  AT 
CONVENTION,  April  21,   1961 
Seated  at  the  right,  left  to  right:  Mary  Butler;  LaRue  Leslie. 
Seated  in  aisle  at  the  left:  Bertha  Campbell. 
Second  row,  left  to  right:  Esther  Holliday;  Gayle  Hales;  Emily  Christensen;  Mary 
Stevens;  LaPreal  Davenport;  Melva  Leavitt;  Verda  Johnston;  Lorraine  \\^igand. 
Third  row,  left  to  right:  La  Verda  Young;  Louise  Tobler;  Freida  Alder;  Ressa  Wood; 
Luzean  Yorgason;  Mary  Waite;  Mary  Fuhriman  Edgley;  Bardella  Rasmussen  Preston.

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
683 
Fourth  row:  Sybil  Yorgason;  Margaret  Hook;  Lola  Hunter;  Marion  Mathewson,  now 
President  of  Nyssa  Stake  Relief  Society;  Belle  Fiet;  Ruby  Jordan;  Manilla  Dowdle; 
Beth  Walker. 
Fifth  row:  Audessa  Wilcox;  Wanda  May;  Charlotte  Taylor;  Ella  Allen;  Madge 
Blue;  NoRene  Green;  Diantha  Pancheri;  Mary  Cook;  Violet  Nelson. 
Sixth  row:  Agnes  Bice,  First  Counselor,  Nampa  Stake  Relief  Society;  Mable  Strate, 
Nampa  Stake  visiting  teacher  message  leader;  Melba  Reynolds,  Second  Counselor, 
Nampa  Stake  Relief  Society;  Evelyn  Raff;  Elinor  Fuhriman. 
Alta  Fuhriman,  President,  Nampa  Stake  Relief  Societv,  reports:  "This  picture  was 
taken  at  our  visiting  teacher  convention,  where  we  honored  all  ward  Relief  Society  past 
presidents.  Several  came  from  out  of  town.  One  came  a  distance  of  500  miles.  We 
were  pleased  with  the  attendance,  but  were  especially  happy  because  of  the  s\\eet  spirit 
that  was  with  us." 
Photograph   submitted  by  Mary   Stirk 
EAST  OGDEN  STAKE    (UTAH),   THIRTY  FIFTH   W^ARD   RELIEF   SOCIETY 
MAKES  ROSE  DESIGN  OUILT 
Seated  in  front,  at  the  left:  Loxenia  Fullmer;  Janet  Driver;  Cora  Davis;  at  the 
right:  Olive  Vandenburg;  V^aNeta  Burnett. 
Back  row,  standing,  left  to  right:  Marie  Hutchens;  Lula  Graham;  Madge  Craw- 
ford; Itha  Bieler;  Louise  Van  Dyke;  Norma  Smith,  President;  Audrey  Bonnell;  Doris 
Stone;  Anna  Stephens;  Roberta  Alhed. 
Pearl  Hussev  and  Norine  Collins  were  absent  when  the  picture  was  taken. 
Mary  Stirk,  President,  East  Ogden  Stake  Relief  Society,  reports  that  390  hours  of 
work  went  into  the  making  of  this  beautiful  rose  applique  quilt  which  was  presented 
to  the  retiring  bishop  C.  Austin  Seager,  as  a  "thank  you"  for  his  nine  years  of  service. 
"Along  with  the  quilt  was  a  book  of  names  of  all  past  and  present  ward  members  who 
had  contributed  to  the  project.  The  wholehearted  and  generous  response  enabled  us 
to  present  this  gift  to  the  bishop  who  was  retiring,  and  a  check  for  S400  to  the  present 
bishop  Lowell  M.  Stone  for  the  building  fund.  The  presentation  was  made  at  the  close 
of  a  ward  banquet  and  a  verv  impressive  program  depicting  the  birth  and  growth  of 
the  ward."

684 
RELIEF  SOCIETY   MAGAZINE— OCTOBER   1961 
Photograph  submitted  by   Avez   B.   Goodman 
TUCSON  STAKE   (ARIZONA),  TUCSON  FOURTH  WARD  HANDICRAFT 
FAIR.  December  2,  iq6o 
Second  Counselor  and  fair  director  Virginia  Nelson  displays  some  of  the  items 
made  for  the  fair.  Children  in  the  picture,  left  to  right,  are:  Jeffrey  Reisner,  son  of  the 
Tucson  Fourth  Ward  Relief  Society  President  Margaret  C.  Reisner;  Nola  Skousen, 
daughter  of  Beth  Skousen,  publicity  chairman  for  the  fair;  Carol  Nelson,  daughter  of 
Virginia  Nelson. 
Avez  M.  Goodman,  President,  Tucson  Stake  Relief  Society,  reports  that  this 
liandieraft  fair  was  very  successful:  "We  had  in  attendance  many  nonmembers  and 
visitors  from  out  of  the  city,  as  well  as  from  other  wards  in  Tucson  Stake.  A  fried 
chicken  dinner  was  served.  We  had  moxies  for  the  children.  There  were  many 
booths  of  beautiful  handwork,  including  quilts,  pillowcases,  and  tablecloths.  The  dolls 
in  the  picture  were  bought  and  then  dressed  by  the  sisters.  The  toys  were  all  made 
by  the  sisters.  The  wreath  and  Christmas  tree  were  made  of  nylon  net.  There  were 
aprons,  housecoats,  pajamas,  shirts,  skirts,  dresses,  and  baby  clothes  for  sale.  There 
was  a  fish  pond,  a  candy  booth,  and  a  bakery  counter,  where  cakes,  pies,  rolls,  and 
cookies  were  sold.  Almost  e\ery  sister  contributed  something  towards  the  fair,  and 
most  of  them  helped  at  some  time  during  the  evening.  W^e  were  very  happy  with  the 
financial,  as  well  as  with  the  spiritual  success.  \\^omen  are  brought  close  together  by 
Avorking  and  sharing  in  a  common  cause. 
"We  ha\'e  a  nurserv  for  the  children  under  three  years  of  age,  and  a  'J^ck  and  Jill' 
school,  run  very  much  like  a  kindergarten  by  the  mothers  for  preschool  children."

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
685 
,ifl,  -.  ^         v«&  > 
PhotoRiaph    submitted   by    Marion   H.    Madsen 
MIAMI  STAKE    (FLORIDA),  MIAMI  WARD  PRESENTS  PLAY  "RELIEF 
SOCIETY,  \\  IIY?"  March   18,  1961 
Seated,  in  front,  at  the  left:  Marilyn  Parrish  and  Beth  Salter;  standing,  in  front, 
at  the  right:  Mary  Strome. 
Standing  at  the  back:  Lillian  Hemrick;  Nadine  Smith;  Ann  Sorensen;  Lillian  Sea- 
man; Andrey  Home;  Belva  Morris. 
Marion  H.  Madsen,  President,  Miami  Stake  Relief  Society,  reports:  "For  the  first 
time  since  its  organization,  in  November  ig6o,  the  Miami  Stake  Relief  Society  officers 
called  a  special  stake  gathering  of  all  Relief  Societ\'  members  of  the  stake  for  the  cele-
