[Vol48 | October 1961 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Fiction | Title: Sunshine | Author: Johnson]
[Sunshine Is Where You Find It Cleo Jones Johnson]
SUNSHINE  FROM  ABOVE 
The  sunshine  streams  upon  my  soul, 
Which  opens  to  its  welcome  ray; 
It  thrills  me  through,  it  lights  the  whole 
As  doth  the  sun  the  summer's  day. 
My  soul  exults,  responsive  sings, 
As  if  to  burst  the  bands  I  feel; 
My  morning  song  with  music  rings. 
My  even  song  hath  richer  peal! 
—  N. 
THE  NATION  IN  MOURNING:  'The  President  (William  McKinley)  is  fatally 
wounded.  .  .  ."  The  telegram  received  in  this  city  (September  6,  1901)  .  .  .  plunged 
the  whole  community  into  deep  sorrow  and  mourning.  .  .  .  Mrs.  McKinley  had  borne 
up  bravely  from  the  first  ...  as  our  Father  tempers  the  wind  to  the  shorn  lamb,  so 
He  in  His  infinite  mercy  gave  to  the  sorrowing  wife  grace  equal  to  the  trying  hour. 
.  .  .  when  at  last  he  bade  his  loved  ones  farewell  his  words  were  characteristic  of  the 
divinity  that  made  him  great  among  men,  ''Good  bye  all,  good  bye,  it  is  God's  way, 
His  will  be  done."  The  heart  of  the  nation  is  bowed  in  grief  and  in  mourning,  and 
prayers  from  the  many  thousands  are  being  offered  continuously  to  heaven  for  the 
immediate  friends,  that  they  may  have  strength  and  courage.  ...  A  good  man  has  gone, 
a  great  man  has  fallen,  the  people  mourn  but  they  must  also  strive  to  carry  out  the 
measures  and  policy  that  will  preserve  the  country,  so  famed  for  true  liberty.  .  .  . 
—  Editorial 
Page  656

Woman's  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
TTARPER  LEE,  of  Monroeville, 
Alabama,  has  received  the  i960 
Pulitzer  Prize  for  her  autobio- 
graphical novel,  To  Kill  a  Mocking- 
bird (Lippincott).  The  book  has 
already  been  translated  into  ten 
languages.  In  the  story  two  chil- 
dren learn  to  appreciate  ''the  dig- 
nity of  human  life/'  Her  father, 
Amasa  Lee,  is  the  real-life  model  of 
the  hero,  Atticus  Finch. 
lyrRS.  MARIE  A.  STUMB,  after 
an  automobile  accident  ended 
her  budding  career  in  voice  and  bal- 
let, turned  to  the  business  world  for 
a  new  occupation.  She  is  now 
among  the  nation's  top  ten  women 
underwriting  more  than  a  million 
dollars  worth  of  life  insurance  an- 
nuallv.  She  analvzes  the  business 
affairs  of  doctors,  businessmen,  and 
corporation  executives,  sometimes 
in  the  highest  of  income  brackets, 
and  gives  expert  advice.  She  is  also 
a  specialist  on  estate  and  tax  mat- 
ters. 
jyjRS.  DA\qD  DONALD  is  work- 
ing with  her  husband,  profes- 
sor of  history  at  Princeton  Univer- 
sity, in  editing  the  diary  of  Charles 
Francis  Adams,  son  and  grandson 
of  our  American  Presidents  Adams. 
This  diary  was  not  available  to  re- 
search until  1954.  ^^  ^^^s  kept 
meticulously  from  the  eighteen 
twenties  down  to  1880. 
TTELEN  HAYES,  America's  first 
lady  of  the  theater,  and  June 
Havoc,  Helen  Menken,  Barbara  Bar- 
rie,  with  nine-year-old  Rona  Gale  (in 
the  role  of  the  blind  child,  Helen 
Keller),  were  the  leading  women  in 
the  American  National  Theater  and 
Academy  experiment  sponsored  bv 
the  United  States  Government,  to 
give  other  nations  some  familiaritv 
with  America's  culture. 
M RS.  OLIVER  (ESTHER) 
PETERSON,  a  former  Utah