[Vol48 | October 1961 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Fiction | Title: Bday | Author: Congrats]
THE  LAST  DAYS  OF  BRIGHAM  YOUNG 
647 
God  to  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
who  have  come  here  to  give  us  sweet  mel- 
ody, and  I  feel  to  bless  every  one  of  the 
good  and  honest  in  heart,  all  over  the 
earth,  and  pray  that  they  may  receive  the 
truth  in  their  hearts  and  be  gathered  with 
Israel.  I  ask  my  Heavenly  Father  to  grant 
all  that  has  been  asked  by  my  brethren  in 
these  meetings,  and  that  he  will  let  his 
spirit  rest  upon  this  house,  that  his  angels 
may  visit,  and  his  spirit  rest  upon  those 
who  shall  come  into  this  house  to  labor 
for  themselves  or  for  their  dead.  ...  I  feel 
to  bless  every  one  of  you,  and  I  do  it  by 
virtue  of  the  authority  which  is  in  me, 
and  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen 
(J.  H.,  April  8,  1877). 
He  also  referred  to  the  condition 
of  his  health. 
As  to  my  health,  I  feel  manv  times 
that  I  could  not  live  an  hour  longer,  but 
I  mean  to  live  just  as  long  as  I  can.  I 
know  not  how  soon  the  messenger  will  call 
for  me,  but  I  calculate  to  die  in  the 
harness  (J.  H.,  April  6,  1877). 
President  Young  was  now  nearing 
his  seventy-sixth  birthday,  and  he 
felt  the  weight  of  his  years.  But 
there  were  so  many  things  that  he 
wanted  to  do;  he  had  to  crowd  them 
into  the  remaining  months  of  his 
life.  He  told  the  brethren  that  on 
his  return  trip  to  Salt  Lake  Citv,  he 
wanted  to  stop  at  Manti  and  dedi- 
cate a  site  for  a  temple  there. 
The  President  and  party  left  St. 
George  on  April  16,  1877,  and  travel- 
ing leisurely,  they  reached  Manti  on 
the  24th.  The  next  day  they  ascend- 
ed the  hill  north  and  east  of  the  city 
and  dedicated  the  site  for  the  Manti 
Temple.  The  President  knelt  upon 
the  ground  as  he  offered  the  prayer. 
Here  is  one  paragraph,  revealing  his 
fervent  words  and  the  deep  feelings 
of  his  heart. 
We  ask  thee  Holy  Father  to  recei\e  our 
thanks,  and  to  accept  of  us  at  this  time, 
that  what  we  do  and  say  mav  come  up 
before  the  Lord  as  an  acceptable  offering. 
We  dedicate  to  thee  this  ground  on 
which  we  now  are,  which  has  been  chosen 
for  Temple  purposes.  We  dedicate  the 
mountain  itself  and  the  valley  round 
about,  to  the  name  and  service  of  the 
Lord.  .  .  .  We  also  dedicate  unto  thee  the 
habitations  of  thy  people,  that  they  may 
be  the  sanctuaries  of  peace  and  happiness. 
But  especially  do  we  dedicate  unto  thee 
this  ground,  on  the  southeast  corner  of 
which  we  now  kneel,  for  the  purpose 
of  building  a  Temple  to  thy  most  holy 
name,  and  we  ask  that  it  may  be  made 
holy,  that  the  rock  and  the  soil  and  every 
part  and  portion  of  it  may  be  sanctified 
for  this  purpose  (J.  H.,  April  25,  1877). 
The  President  did  not  propose  to 
pay  wages  to  anyone  in  the  building 
of  the  Manti  Temple.  After  the 
dedicatory  prayer  he  explained  this 
to  the  people  who  were  present. 
We  intend  building  this  Temple  for 
ourselves,  and  we  are  abundantly  able  to 
do  it;  therefore  no  man  need  come  here 
to  work,  expecting  wages  for  his  services. 
The  neighboring  settlements  will  send 
their  men,  and  they  can  be  changed  when- 
ever, and  as  often  as  desirable;  and  they 
can  get  credit  on  Labor  Tithing  or  Dona- 
tion Account  for  their  services,  and  we 
expect  them  to  work  until  this  Temple  is 
completed,  \\ithout  asking  for  wages.  It 
is  not  in  keeping  with  the  character  of 
Saints  to  make  the  building  of  Temples 
a  matter  of  merchandise  (J.  H.,  April  25, 
1877). 
Leaving  Manti  immediately  after 
the  dedication  of  the  temple  site, 
the  President  and  party  drove  to 
Nephi.  The  following  day  they  con- 
tinued on  to  York  in  Juab  County, 
and  from  there  they  journeyed  by 
rail  to  Salt  Lake  City.  The  Presi- 
dent had  been  absent  from  the  head- 
quarters of  the  Church  a  little  more 
than  five  months. 
T^HE  principal  work  which  Presi- 
dent  Young  now  planned   for 
the    remainder    of   the    spring   and 
summer   was   to    set   in    order    the

648 
RELIEF   SOCIETY   MAGAZINE— OCTOBER    1961 
Photograph  Courtesy  of  the  Church  Historian's  Office 
THE  MANTI  TEMPLE   IN  COURSE  OV   CONSTRUCTION 
Note  the  pioneer  homes  and  fences,  the  j^oung  Lombardy  poplars,  and  the 
terraced  hill. 
Site  Dedicated  April  2^,  1877  Temple  Dedicated  May  21,  1888 
stakes  of  Zion  and  see  that  all 
were  working  harmoniously  together. 
Therefore,  important  conferences, 
one  after  another,  were  called.  The 
first  was  held  in  Salt  Lake  City  on 
May  12th  and  13th,  in  the  new 
Tabernacle.  One  week  later  on 
May  19th  and  20th,  an  organization 
of  Cache  Stake  at  Logan  was  effect- 
ed, with  Moses  Thatcher  as  presi- 
dent, and  William  B.  Preston  and 
Milton  D.  Hammond  as  counselors. 
On  May  24th  a  special  conference 
was  called  at  Ogden,  and  the  city 
was  divided  into  four  wards.  Also, 
outlying  settlements  of  Weber 
County  were  all  completely  organ- 
ized under  their  respective  bishop- 
ries. All  this  was  done  under  the 
immediate  supervision  and  direction 
of  President  Young,  now  approach- 
ing his  seventy-sixth  birthday. 
In  writing  to  Joseph  F.  Smith  in 
England,  under  date  of  June  6th, 
the  President  reported  as  follows: 
Since  you  left  we  ha\'e  organized  stakes 
in  Cache,  Weber  and  Utah  Counties,  and 
next  Saturday  we  hope  to  be  in  Brigham 
City,  and  the  next  weeks  following  at 
Farmington  and  Tooele.  We  shall  then 
most  probably  go  down  into  Sanpete  Coun- 
ty and  so  continue  until  we  have  organized 
the  Latter-day  Saints  throughout  these  \'al- 
leys,  so  that  all  can  be  known  and  looked 
after  (M.  S.  39,  page  444). 
Again,  in  a  letter  to  Elder  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  under  date  of  July  12th,  he 
reported  that: 
With  a  few  of  the  brethren  I  started 
on  June  29th  to  visit  the  Saints  in  Juab 
and  Sanpete  Counties,  and  returned  on  the 
10th  inst.  We  had  a  very  enjoyable  trip, 
though  the  weather  was  exceeding!}'  hot 
and  the  roads  excessively  dusty.  In  both 
counties  we  organized  stakes  of  Zion,  Elder 
George  Teasdale  of  Salt  Lake  City  being

THE  LAST  DAYS  OF  BRIGHAM  YOUNG 
649 
sustained  as  the  president  of  Juab  Stake, 
and  Bishop  Canute  Peterson  of  Sanpete 
County.  We  found  a  good  spirit  prevail- 
ing and  are  well  satisfied  with  our  labors 
during  our  absence  (M.  S.  39,  page  524). 
On  July  24,  1877,  thousands  of 
Sunday  School  children  gathered  in 
the  new  Tabernacle  at  Salt  Lake 
Citv  to  participate  in  a  pioneer  cele- 
bration. Among  others,  President 
Young  addressed  them  and  gave 
them  a  splendid  recital  of  the  pio- 
neer journey. 
Exactly  thirty  years  today,  myself,  with 
others,  came  out  of  what  we  named  Emi- 
gration Canyon.  We  crossed  the  Big  and 
Little  Mountains,  and  came  down  into  the 
valley  about  three  quarters  of  a  mile  south 
of  this.  We  located  and  wc  looked  about 
and  finally  we  came  and  camped  between 
the  two  forks  of  City  Creek,  one  of  which 
ran  southwest  and  the  other  west.  Here 
we  planted  our  standard,  on  this  Temple 
Block  and  the  one  above  it;  here  we 
pitched  our  camps  and  determined  that  we 
would  stop  and  settle. 
Children,  we  are  the  Pioneers  of  this 
country,  with  one  exception,  west  of  the 
Mississippi  river;  we  established  the  first 
printing  press  in  every  state  from  here  to 
the  Pacific  Ocean,  and  we  were  the  first 
to  establish  hbraries,  and  the  first  to  estab- 
lish good  schools;  we  were  the  first  to 
plant  our  orchards,  and  to  improve  the 
desert  countrv,  making  it  like  the  Garden 
of  Eden  (J.  H.,  July  24,  1877). 
On  Sunday,  August  19th,  the 
President  was  in  attendance  at  a 
conference  in  Brigham  City,  where 
''under  a  large  bowery,"  he  addressed 
a  congregation  of  ''at  least  two  thou- 
sand five  hundred  people."  The  Box 
Elder  Stake  was  organized,  with 
Oliver  G.  Snow  as  president  and 
Elijah  Box  and  Isaac  Smith  as  coun- 
selors. On  Monday,  President 
Young  and  the  visiting  brethren  re- 
turned by  train  to  Salt  Lake  City. 
nPHROUGHOUT  the  Thursday 
following,  while  working  in  his 
office,  the  President  complained  of 
a  feeling  of  nausea.  At  eleven  o'clock 
at  night,  on  retiring,  he  was  seized 
with  a  severe  attack  of  "cholera  mor- 
bus" which  continued  until  five 
o'clock  in  the  morning,  when,  to 
relieve  his  suffering,  a  mild  opiate 
was  administered  by  Dr.  F.  D.  Bene- 
dict and  Dr.  Seymour  B.  Young, 
who  had  been  called  to  his  bedside 
during  the  night. 
All  day  Friday  he  was  in  consider-
