

Margery S. Stewart The mist has purple in it, Inside the chill, the sea blows. | should be used to summer P Severing the day's hours On these flowing hills. But this is not the folding Away of a year but the ripping Of remembrance. | should name this sea edge home, Fall feathers over the dove cote P In the tender hollows. Why soar the cliffs? Climbings? Wind gilded mountains of my Birth land? They invade me. | feel snow only a storm away | hear rains falling on dust-leafed Alders. | feel poplars probing The weathers. They cry me home. But | cannot. | have seen birds in the sunny Springtime here, scolding The rich lawns, drooping on the Wires, waiting for the release. When it came, uncurling cramped Wing to leap iceward on the Airy rivers. Let it not be Too long for me. The Cover: Castle in Austria: Transparency by Alpha Photo Associates: Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Laguna Beach, California, by Josef Muench Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: Mary Scopes My husband and | both enjoy the Magazine. It serves as a comforter to us. We especially enjoy all the words of wisdom and we. Liked the story 'Valentine's Day,'' by Helen H. Trutton, in the February issue. Before we came here, we were in the Southern States Mission, and it was like a wonderful visit home to see the Singing Mothers of the South Georgia District recently in our Magazine—all those familiar faces smiling at us over 11,000 miles away! E. Deanie Teuscher Guam, Marianna Islands The Magazine is interesting, educational, and objective. By means of it | have had the privilege of knowing more of our North American sisters, and many of our Church leaders. It is a pleasure to see the pictures of the bazaars and the beautiful ideas for handicrafts. Rhina P. De Viacava Valparaiso, Pert | have read from the pen of Blanche Kendall McKey many beautiful and inspirational poems and stories. ''Never Land and Home," in the April Magazine is no exception. In a 1926 college yearbook, | treasure this bit of advice, as | left for the mission field: ''Speak up real bravely and organize."' This gentle, sweet wisdom from a patient, lovely speech teacher—Blanche Kendall McKey. LaVina Norman Holman Pocatello, Idaho The way to build a testimony is to improve in knowledge of the gospel by reading good literature. Before | became a subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine | was like a cabbage— | just grew. But since | have this wonderful book | have learned many things to improve myself and my family. There is something for everyone in this Magazine. Willehmina McAlister Rockhampton Branch Australian Mission 482! Am so completely impressed by this year's new literature text ''Out of the Best Books'' that | feel prompted to express myself to you. | love teaching from the text. It is truly a masterpiece of criticism and selection. 1! Am so very grateful for the literature program in Relief Society. My group loves the lessons. | truly believe the greatest minds we can learn to know have been those in the past who have written. Again, | am grateful for Dr. Clark and Dr. Thomas who did such an outstanding service in compiling the book. Mrs. Lloyd C. Miller Provo, Utah | have really enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine. We were living in an area where we had to travel about twentyfive miles to church, and if the weather was bad, as it was most of the winter, we couldn't make it at all. There were so few women in the ward who could get to Relief Society that most of the time there wasn't any. So the Magazine was a special comfort and blessing. | look forward to receiving it each and every month, even though we now live where 1 can attend meetings regularly. Helen Anderson Sacramento, California | think the story ''A State of Mind," by Lael J. Littke, in the April Magazine is one of the best published in quite some time. The theme has universality, the characters are real, and the author shows understanding of all ages; no rough places, no overwriting. Dorothy Clapp Robinson Provo, Utah The Relief Society Magazine is an inspiration and a great help to us in our home, and to me personally in the work in the Chilean Mission. | work as First Counselor in the Relief Society of the mission, and often refer to old numbers of the Magazine, as well as to current numbers for help in my work. Gloria Schaffer Melendez Santiago, Chile. Relief Society 
Volume 52 Number 7 July 1965 Editor Marianne C. Sharp' Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Content
Special Features 484 Pioneer Standards Dorothy Clapp Robinson 514 Snatches of Happiness Elsie C. Carroll 517 Don't Feel Sorry for Me Alice Gubler Sabin Fiction 488 Homecoming Mary R. MacArthur 494 Postmark: London Agda Harlow 521 Ring Around Her Heart—Chapter 3 Shirley Thulin Generali Features 482 From Near and Far 500 Editorial: A Goodly Heritage Vesta P. Crawford 502 Notes to the Field: Change in Lesson Order 503 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 528 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 560 Birthday Congratulations The Home - inside and Out 505 Sunday Is Still Sunday When You're Camping Leola Hacken 507 Easier Summer Living Dorothy Hicks 509 Sleepwear and Sunsuits Janet W. Brzeze 510 Food With Foreign Tastes Florian H. Thayn 512 Something Beautiful Joyce L. Canham 513 Knitted Lace—A Lovely Art 515 The Neighbor Plate Betty G. Spencer 516 Gleanings From the Summer Nancy M. Armstrong Lessons 535 Theology for October—God's Power in the World Roy W. Doxey 541 Visiting Teacher Message for October—''And I Give Unto You a Commandment." Christine H. Robinson 543 Work Meeting for September—Teaching the Gospel In the Home—Vocational Goals and Marriage Alberta H. Christensen 549 Work Meeting for October—Molding a Happy Life—Using One's Resources to Find Happiness Winnifred C. Jardine 551 Social Science lesson for October will be printed in the August Magazine 551 Literature for October—Good Versus Evil—Part I Bruce B. Clark Poetry 481 Heimweh Margery S. Stewart Prodigal, by Carol Ottesen, 487; Whither, by Iris W. Schow, 492; Let Me Remember Her, by Christie Lund Coles, 493; Dear Lord, by Mae L. Curtis, 502; Deep Summer, by Vesta Fairbairn, 504; In the Pyrenees, by Diane Houghton, 506; Of the Heart, by Linda Clarke, 520; A Wish, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 527; A Way of Peace, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 542; Love Is, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 548; While Apart, by Sylvia Lustig Bennion, 557; Incident of the Red Rose, by Lael M. Hill, 558; Moon-Beguiied, by Ethel Jacobson, 560. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1965 by Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned' unless return. Postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

Jesus tells of a king who, before he went to war, sat down and counted the cost. Our pioneer grandparents also did that before taking up their journey. Behind, they were leaving the familiar, the known. Ahead lay the unfamiliar, the unknown, the challenges of which they might be poorly prepared to meet. Individually the pioneer made his choice, and the choice once made, he used all his resources in an attempt to meet the responsibilities that went with it. He put faith in his God, trust in his leaders, and he developed muscle and judgment. He quickly learned that his welfare depended on the welfare of the company. The pioneers, as a whole, gave their 484 thy Chan Robins best to the cause. It was a journey for stout hearts and strong bodies; it was a journey that produced great men; it was a journey that brought forth a growing spiritual nation of the Lord. The pioneer could do this because he could say with sure conviction: "I am a man; I came into the world possessing certain attributes and powers, and God has given me the strength to develop them for my welfare and that of others." History has proved he did have that strength. Again today we face a future that is uncharted. Many minds are riddled by doubts and fears. Strange new values are being advanced as necessary to survival. Living has become so complex that many of the ablest minds are ready to throw aside all the old values. There seems to be a nebulous line between right and wrong in the minds of many. There seems to be a strong tendency, especially among some young people, and even some fathers and mothers, to show no reverence toward God or their bodies. The mothers of today are faced with a frightening challenge. How can they rear men and women of honor and integrity when, from all sides, posters, TV, radio, and magazines flaunt the glorification of selfishness, immorality, violence, self-love and self-gratification? The task is not easy. It has not been easy in any generation. The way of ease is not the way of growth. Our children came into this life with the same _ potentials of strength as have the children of other generations. They must be taught to count the cost before succumbing to many present-day theories and practices. They must be schooled in the graces and sacrifices that produce character. They should know the meaning of the words of Alma, "'For every man receiveth wages of him whom he listeth to obey." "But, Grandma, times have changed." How often we hear this excuse! ""We don't do things that way these days." True, times have changed, but human urges and wants have not. It is hard for children to realize that their parents went through the same emotional adjustments that they face. David, the young son of Jesse, met and conquered Goliath; an PIONEER STANDARDS eight-year-old pioneer boy crept alone through the darkness of night over trackless hills to summon help for his people who were trapped by Indians; today a young lad faced his gang bent on deviltry and said, "Count me out." Those were the times, and these are the times when the same brand of courage is needed; and the results will be the same. David won the battle for his king; the pioneer boy saved his people. The boy who said, "Count me out," gave strength to weaker boys who were waiting for his decision. Today we live in a climate of "sive me." The pioneer would have been insulted if offered something for nothing. Taking care of himself and his family was the test of his manhood. How do we help our children to grow strong and self-reliant? The way any skill is acquired— by patience and _ practice—the same way a pianist perfects his playing, or a basketball player develops quickness of sight and muscular agility. Fine in theory, but how do you control practice? There seems to be no one sure answer. It would be a wise parent, indeed, who could foresee every contingency. Wherever the way lies, our Heavenly Father is not going to puta finished script in our hands. " for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant.... For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves..." (D&C 58:26, 28). Parents must keep alert and teachable and develop their own powers by "faith and by study." 485 JULY 1965 There is no lack of signposts. Our Church magazines and other magazines carry articles by recognized authorities. President McKay has said, "To be trusted is more to be desired than to be loved."" Trust implies self-discipline, honor, and promptness. The climate of the home seems to be basic to all training of children. Much training is caught rather than taught. It might be helpful to observe the methods used by parents who seem to be making a success of rearing their families. One mother of a family of husky, rowdy boys doesn't make a big production out of their training. Their behavior is taken as a matter of course. They laugh and sing and work and play together. They fill their Church assignments; they are active in school and civic projects; they have a togetherness won by prayer and appreciation. Where there is appreciation there is thankfulness. Gratitude does not breed discontent. Perhaps success with families comes as a by-product as does happiness. A man who is determined to make a_ success of rearing his family might be contrasted with a man who helps his children reach their full potentials. No difference between the two except attitude, and attitude predetermines method. A fourth grade boy announced to his class at school that his birthday was tomorrow after school. He assured the teacher his mother had said he might invite the entire class. Next morning, with his mother standing by, he confessed to his classmates it was not his birthday and there would 486 be no party. Perhaps there might be one on his birthday but not before. Harsh? Did his mother make a big thing out of a small lie? A little girl who thought money was made to spend earned some by helping a neighbor clean her yard. The rake handle rubbed a blister on the palm of the girl's hand. She priced everything in the dime store that she thought was worth her blister. She came home with all her money still clutched in her hand. The great men and women who have risen from poverty give proof that gratification of every wish and whim is not necessary for development. In searching the lives of great men who came from wealthy homes, we find they were strictly disciplined in their youth. A distinction should be made between truly great men and men of great reputation. THe pioneer child provided his own amusements to a large extent. Two pioneer boys built a small adobe mill and hammered together some small molds. Small adobes made wonderful playhouses for small girls. Through their play the boys learned the fundamentals of brickmaking. On the market today are innumerable toys that can develop a child's or teenager's skills far beyond a pioneer parent's wildest dream. A visit to a grade or high school science fair is a revelation to the uninitiated. Again nature is the same but the settings and tools are different. Buying amusements just for amusement's sake can end in a search for thrills. The outstanding men of today are those who have risen from the f / + / A; di | 4 @ Alma gathered her books and purse from the car and walked up to the house. It's good to be home, she thought, as she walked in the door, and it's Friday— that's always good news. "That you, Mom?" Larry ambled into the living room and planted a kiss on Alma's cheek. "How was school?" "Pretty wild today, dear. How was yours?" "Okay. But those men aren't through with the bathroom yet. They left right after I got here, and they said to tell you that there's some odd part they need 488 ge; OMeCOMNG jt Mary R. MacArthur to finish the plumbing that they can't get until tomorrow." "Oh, no! You mean everything is still in pieces?" "Ves." Alma picked her way through the dining room into the bathroom to inspect the invisible progress. Her plumbing had recently collapsed for the third time that autumn, and she had finally called in a plumber who had spent the week tearing out, repairing, and trying to renew the ancient fixtures. But everything had gone more slowly than expected, and nothing worked yet. Even worse, all the movable contents of the roomy old bathroom were piled and stacked in the adjoining room. Alma's inspection was cut short by the ringing of the telephone. She stepped into the dining room to answer it. "Surprise, Mommy—it's I Her daughter Kristy's excited voice pierced through the telephone and made Alma's heart leap. "Darling, how are you? Are you calling from school?" "No, and you'll never guess where I am. I'm in Bakersfield, and I'll be home in two hours!" "In Bakersfield! How did you get there? And why aren't you at school?" "Calm down, Mom! Everything's wonderful. You know that fellow Ted that I wrote you about? He offered me a ride down for the week end in exchange for a date with him to the big football game tomorrow. We didn't have any afternoon classes, so we got an early start today." "Sweetheart, it will be so wonderful to see you! I can't tell you how much we've missed you." "Oh, Mommy, I can hardly wait to get there. But, Mom— Lisa is with me, too. You remember the German girl in my dorm that I told you about? She seemed so lonesome and I'm dying to have you meet her. Ted brought his sleeping bag—lI don't think Larry will mind having him on the floor in his room, do you? And Lisa can share my room. Is it all right?" "Why... Yes, of course." Though positively overwhelmed, Alma managed to make some 199 HOMECOMING sort of reassuring noise. "But why didn't you tell me earlier in the week so I could have prepared a suitable homecoming for you?" "Oh, Mom, I knew you would kill yourself getting everything ready if I told you, and you're just too busy during the week. Besides, we didn't really know what our plans were until yesterday. Listen, Mom, our three minutes are up. Don't worry—we'll love things just as they are." _ As Alma said goodbye, a wave of panic swept over her. Kristy's first visit home from the university, and no plumbing! Two college friends coming with her. Her brain racing wildly, Alma ran for the vacuum cleaner. "Larry! Larry! Get in here! We've got a miracle to work!" Larry was sent off to the market with an impromptu shopping list, and Alma tackled the living room. As she straightened and dusted, she tried to remember what Kristy had said about her new friends, Ted and Lisa, in her letters. Ted was Kristy's first college boy friend—Alma remembered that her daughter had visited his lovely home near the college and had been impressed by his family. And Lisa? Let's see—her folks had left Germany in the thirties, and Kristy had said that they had become members of the Church while living in Switzerland. Oh, yes—Kristy had met Lisa at the Institute. Hadn't Kristy said that Lisa was fluent in four languages? Oh, my, thought Alma, looking around the small, well-worn living room. What in the world would those two think of this house? Alma 489 JULY 1965 was proud that she had been able to support her family with her teaching since her husband died, but how would it all look to Kristy now, after life at the university? Well, I certainly don't have time to worry about that now, Alma thought as she finished the living room and surveyed the mess in the adjoining room. But what on earth am I going to do about all this stuff? I can't move it now—there just isn't time left. In desperation she spread clean sheets over the piles of bathroom stuff and headed for the kitchen. A few minutes later she heard voices and the sound of car doors banging in front of the house. "Mother—we're here!" Cristy raced through the front door and threw herself into Alma's arms. She turned and hugged Larry. "Oh, it's so wonderful to be home!" As. Kristy introduced her mother to her friends, Alma could hardly keep her eyes off her girl. How pretty she looks, Alma thought, and how happy! The tired youngsters collapsed in the living room. "Are you hungry?" Alma asked. "I'd love to fix you a snack." A chorus of yeas greeted her Suggestion, and a few minutes later she was serving tuna sandwiches, hot chocolate, and doughnuts. For the first time Alma took a good look at the other young people. Ted was a spectacled, lanky type—so young-looking, Alma thought, but nice enough. Lisa—how much more mature she looked, but how tense she was. At that moment Lisa reached 490 for a doughnut and knocked over her cup of chocolate. "Oh, how awful of me!" Lisa jumped to her feet. "Mrs. Hargent, I'm so very sorry. What shall I do?" Alma watched the brown stain spread over the print slip cover. "It's nothing, Lisa—the slip covers are washable. But your lovely skirt...." Alma _ unzipped the bright cover, and winced at the sight of the ugly mohair sofa beneath. Oh, dear, she thought, we needed that camouflage! "Mother, what in the world is this?" Kristy was in the adjoining room, gazing at the sheetcovered piles. "Why, that's a surprise for you," Alma said lightly, trying not to let her embarrassment show. She told of her bathroom woes. "We'll have to play primitive tonight," she finished. "Miss Tanner next door is kindly lending us her facilities for the duration. You'll find a pile of towels by the back door." Kristy looked a bit desperate, and Alma tried to smile reassuringly at her daughter. The group broke up in a bustle of baggage hunting, sleeping bag unrolling, and goodnight calling. It was well past midnight when all was quiet again, and Alma sank exhausted into bed. THE next morning Alma was the first up, and she headed for the kitchen to clean up from last night's snack. The sight that met her eyes caused her to sink onto a kitchen chair, helpless with nearly hysterical laughter. Larry, fuzzy with sleep, stumbled into the room. "Mom, what's so funny?" Alma pointed to the kitchen sink. The whole counter was alive with ants—the little black grease ants, the nemesis of the California housewife. They had somehow found the tray with the crumbs of the midnight snack, and had brought colonies of comrades to the remains. "For Pete's sake, what's so funny about ants?" Larry demanded. "Your father and I used to have a grim family joke. Whenever we had a family crisis, three things always happened: the car broke down; the plumbing stopped; and the ants moved in."' Larry grinned. "I'm afraid to go out and look at the car." Alma sent Larry off to find the ant poison and tackled the mess. The last dead ant and dirty dish had just been disposed of when Kristy burst in. "Morning, Mommy! It's so marvelous to be home! I'm starved!" And that was the way the week end went, Alma thought —not as an orderly succession of minutes and hours, but like a wave sweeping over her all at HOMECOMING once. The young people never seemed to wear out or get tired of talking—or eating. | Saturday night, while Alma was preparing dinner, Lisa quietly came into the kitchen. "May I do something to help, Mrs. Hargent?" Alma was about to say no when she noticed a certain wistfulness on Lisa's face. "If you'd like, dear, you could wash and slice these tomatoes." The two found themselves deep in conversation in a very few minutes. Alma discovered that Lisa had lived in Copenhagen, where both Alma's parents had been born, and she eagerly listened to the girl describe the city. As they put the dinner on the table, Lisa smiled at Alma and said, "It seems wonderful to be in a real home again. My mother is a widow, too. We have spent much of our time in hotels in recent years—being here reminds me of our home in Switzerland before my father died." At dinner, Alma started apologizing to the group for the inconvenience of the still halfdemolished bathroom, but was interrupted by Ted. "If you think this is bad, Mrs. Hargent, you ought to see the facilities in the dorm where I live!"' Soon he had all of them roaring with laughter at tales of water fights in the freshman dormitory. Sunday moming Alma finally had a few minutes alone to visit with Kristy. Kristy couldn't talk fast enough to tell her everything she had saved up. "Mother, the girls are wonderful, all of them. I never dreamed living in a dormitory could be such a ball. Do 491 JULY 1965 you know what? I've been nominated for president of our wing!" "T'm so proud of you, dear." Alma reached over and hugged her daughter tightly. "And I'm proud of the things you stand for. We miss you very much, but we're so glad you're happy." "T miss you all terribly, too." Kristy's voice wobbled a_ bit. "Sometimes I get awfully homesick, but I know I'm aaEie the right thing." "Well, it won't be ame until Christmas now. Darling, I was just thinking... Will Lisa be able to fly to Europe to join her mother for Christmas?" "fT don't think so—she said something about her mother planning on visiting her at school for a couple of weeks." "Kristy, do you suppose they would enjoy spending Christmas here with us? I know our place must seem like a shack after what they're used to, but Lisa seemed glad to be in a home again." "Mommy! You doll! What a wonderful idea! Ill ask Lisa about it right away!" So very soon, it seemed, the young folks were scrambling around the house gathering up their belongings. While Alma was finishing some sandwiches for them to eat in the car, Lisa came to the kitchen. She put her hand on Alma's arm, and Alma turned and saw tears in the girl's eyes. "T don't know how to thank you, Mrs. Hargent. For this, and for the wonderful Christmas invitation. I would like so much for my mother to meet you and your children. If she can come, we would love to visit you at Christmas." '"'And if she can't, dear, I'll be expecting you to spend all the holidays with us." Alma gave Lisa a hug, and handed her the sack full of food. Larry bounded in, with Ted right behind him. ''What can we carry out, Mrs. Hargent?" "Hey," Larry broke in. "I told Ted he was welcome to sleep on my floor any time. Isn't that right?" "Sure it is, Ted," Alma smiled as she handed him a thermos of hot chocolate. "Then I'll be back,' Ted laughed. '"Thanks, Mrs. Hargent, for everything."" Another hug and a kiss from Kristy, and the group was out the door. Alma sank down on the recovered sofa and enjoyed the quiet. It had been, she decided, a wonderful week end.. Whither? Iris W. Schow Men's reactions give shape to their fortunes; One may drift where another would steer; Where the slothful see only the backwoods, The alert find a new frontier! 492 bh Let Me Remember Her Christie Lund Coles My thoughts turn to her Who faced the prairie's emptiness Like a wide hood, And saw nothing but Sky; Nothing but birds and Clouds, Heard the hawk''s wild cry, And sounds of animats of prey, Standing against them ali With head held high. Let me remember her When my Self-pity starts, ive me the strength Her memory imparts, PHOTOGRAPH BY WILLARD LUCE @ The taxi stopped in an old part of the city that Sunday afternoon. Mary Wallace paid the driver and walked up to the large old house with its neat sign Rooms attached to the porch railing. As she rang the bell, she reflected in some surprise that she had never thought of Gram living in a place like this. It was as bad as Beth and Dave's apartment near the University of Chicago. For that matter, Mary thought, unless she told Jim she couldn't marry him, she would find herself in a place like this. Walking behind the landlady to Gram's second floor room, Mary smoothed her uniform skirt. The hall was dim, the carpet a faded pattern of red roses and green leaves, different from the bright entrance to the New York apartment she shared with two other stewardesses. The landlady called '"'"Mrs. Wallace, someone to see you!" and left Mary alone outside the door. Gram would be surprised. Mom had suggested several times that Mary stop to see Gram when a 494 flight took her that way. Mary would please both Gram and Mom, have a good visit with Gram, maybe even go to church with her, and still be back in New York for that breakfast date at the Waldorf with the captain before their flight left for London. Mary knocked impatiently, and Gram's voice, weak and distant, said "Wait, just a minute, please." In another moment Gram was opening the door, exclaiming "Mary, my dear girl!'"' and they were in each other's arms. Drawing Mary into the room, Gram said, "You caught me asleep that time." Mary noted the wrinkled bedspread and a heating pad where Gram had been napping. 'Oh, Gram! Aren't you feeling well?" "It's nothing, just my shoulder acting up. Guess I must not be in such great pain or I couldn't have dropped off to sleep like that. But, Mary, where have you come from? And where are you off to?" "T've been in San Francisco. I'm going to New York. But we have the rest of the day together." Gram smiled. "You'll want to freshen up. The bathroom's down the hall to the right." The bathroom was spotless, a high-ceilinged room, but it was obviously not for Gram's private use. 'Share bath" and 'Kitchen privileges" were phrases assiduously avoided when Mary scanned the classified ads looking for a place to live. Mary ran a comb through her hair and applied fresh lipstick. This visit to Gram was going to make it easier to write that letter to Jim. She felt strengthened in her resolve not to let early marriage rob her of all life's opportunities as it had Gram and Mom. Even Beth, her sister, only twenty-five, had already started on the same path—two babies, and Dave not yet out of law school. She glanced in the wavy mirror, pleased with the new shade of lipstick and the hair rinse she had let Louis persuade her to try. No thank you, no shared bath or rented room or early marriage for her. No thank you, Jim. Applying the eyebrow pencil that exactly matched the hair shade, she continued her thoughts. Of course she would marry someday, maybe in her thirties, in time to have a child or two, a man well established in a career, preferably with a few thousand dollars in the bank, but definitely a man who had done his army service, gone on his mission, graduated from college and acquired all theadvanced degrees he planned on getting. She hadn't seen Jim for over two years, nor heard from him POSTMARK: LONDON while he was on his mission, until that letter came. It was a long letter, full of his missionary experiences and ending with the paragraph that called for an answer, and quickly. Jim had written: I've only a year left at the university, and then I am almost sure of one of the graduate scholarships. We wouldn't be rich, nor even very comfortable for the first few years, but if you could love me as T still love you, I think, with the Lord on our side, we could make out just fine. Love? Well, marriage in Mary's terms needed a lot more than love, and she wasn't going to weaken now just because Jim was such a nice person. Mary snapped her cosmetic case shut, dropped it in her purse on top of Jim's letter, and went back to Gram's room. Gram was lying against the plumped pillows, looking old and little, until she looked up and smiled at Mary's entrance. "How beautiful you are, dear." Gram indicated a_ rocking chair Mary remembered having seen in the sewing room of Gram's and Gramp's old house. "Sit there and tell me all about it. Since I saw you last, you've been to Tokyo, Bangkok, Paris, and I don't know where all. I keep every card you send me, and I want to hear you tell me what it was like." For more than an hour Mary told of her travels to faraway cities. Whenever Mary paused, Gram had another question: "Were all of Manila's medieval churches bombed?" 'Are rice paddies a different green than wheatfields?" "What opera did you see in Rome?" Mary won- 495 JULY 1965 dered how Gram knew about all these places. "Did you goto Odense, Hans Christian Andersen's birthplace?" "No, Gram, but in Copenhagen I saw the lovely bronze figure of Hans Andersen," though she had known him personally. "He never married." "But he was rich and famous and welcome at the king's court." "Oh, he was rich all right, but that never made up ously, and he wrote all those lovely fairy stories out of heartache. Some say the Little Mermaid looking away from the bustling harbor Is the picture of Andersen's soul, lonely and fee]- ing left out of things." | They were both quiet a moment, and then Gram asked, "How do you like my home, Mary?" Mary avoided Gram's inquiring look as Gram continued, "You've never been to see me here before." Gram! It just isn't Gram was Startled, and Mary went on, the words tumbling out, "After all you've done for your family and your Church, you live here, Crowded into a little rented room all alone." Gram smiled wryly, "Then I take it you don't think much of my home?" "T don't know how to say it— it's just not 800d enough for you. --. I don't see how Father or Uncle Joe or Aunt Sally or any of 496 edge of the bed. "Mary, dear, I would be welcome to live with any of them, and I love Visiting them often. But I chose to be here, independent, and near the chapel Eric and new so well." Mary walked to the one window, fingered a geranium leaf in the window box, lifted the white cottage curtain and let it drop, and came back to stand by G "But, G There are don't even know about. You don't know what plays, the art museums,,,." Gram interrupted, have a couple of new showings every And my portrait gallery is at the Church When I have time, I go over and sit at the back for the Primary opening exercises, J may never have seen 'The Blue Boy' or 'The Girl with the Torn Hat' in the original, but I've seen some wonderful child portraits: 'Boy with a Missing Front Tooth,' for Instance, or 'Girl in a Pinafore.'..." "You have an answer for everything!" She no one to talk to?" As she answered, Gram looked at the picture of Gramp on the old desk in the corner. "Yes, I am lonely, but it's Eric ''m lonely for. Nobody else can really fil] *_4rIe and [| did a lot of Walking in n't even let me fee] | 1 Sorry for you, Gram." S what Jj a éTanddaughtey wh travels 4round the ay of aples, | Usually of. S00dneszg_ child, Our time j ten today, Most gone Fast and testimon Meeting wil] begin j €Y seate back of th utes, "' "YO matter how answered the le Ought, give Jim ody is Wearing Out, th ut I'm Stil] Siving jt 0) another two 9) years, that's just Where rders, Jim Would be. But, ourse, One of the things jt an still do js Te was no question how She Set me to church," Would 4NsWwer the ette e blessing Over, the father Whur Tam combed thin lifted his baby P for all to d &tay hair, Slipped Out of her robe mire. Then hee Swiftly down 4nd into a figured silk ress, € aisle d han Mary roc ed in the old chair an looked a Stiffen for she reached 4CTOss and took © heavy oak bed and dresser the ba y, hispering Into Mary's that ust be fift years old, | " @ar, used to be ne of my the Tound table here Gram guid Scouts. | | their first baby Must eat her €als, " +. Father In the bishopric "Are YOu ready?" Gram asked, _ - + Mother plays the Organ. |. Arm in arm, they Walked the told him I'd Old the baby to. Half block to the Chapel. TY day." remarked that Gram Could out JULY 1965 moved closer to the aisle, drawing her skirt away from the baby's blanket. She had gone to fast and testimony meetings all her life, and this followed the same pattern; but sitting by Gram added a new dimension to the experience. A cuRLY-HEADED eight-year-old was confirmed by his father. Gram looked a little misty-eyed as if she were seeing another boy and another father, maybe Mary's father, with Gramp confirming him—before he was Gramp, when he was father, or Eric, as he had always been to Gram. Just as Jim would always be Jim to her. There she was again, thinking of Jim! How could he always get into the picture? Gram held the baby tenderly. Mary wondered, was Gram, then, thinking of her own children, her grandchildren, the little guide scout who had grown up to be the father of this baby and was now in the bishopric? Gram's and Mary's eyes closed for the sacrament prayer, and Mary could almost feel the spirit of prayer around them. For what did Gram _pray so fervently? Mary bowed her own head and added her prayer, "Dear Father, whatever Gram wants, make it come true. I thank thee for my visit with her today. I meant to cheer her lonely old life, but it is she who is making me glad, although I can't explain quite how." The testimonies began, but, through Gram's eyes, even the testimonies were different. The young deacon speaking so earnestly, his face puckered, made Mary glad the people listened to him so politely. The scoutmaster 498 spoke next, grateful for his opportunity to serve. A woman in the row ahead told of her joy in having a missionary son. Mary remembered that all four of Gram's sons had served missions. A man near the front expressed thanks for his recovery from a serious operation, for the power that had guided the surgeon's hands. And then, the young mother of the baby Gram held went to the pulpit from her place on the stand near the organ. With brimming eyes, she thanked her Heavenly Father for the gospel, for her husband, and for her baby, in that order. Mary looked down at the sleeping infant, slid off her glove, and gently touched the soft cheek. Gram misinterpreted the gesture and settled the baby in Mary's lap, linty blanket and all. Before Mary could give the baby back, Gram was on her feet, bearing her testimony. Mary listened and _ unconsciously held the baby close, lifting it to her shoulder, brushing the tiny ear with her lips. Gram was saying, Now that my family is scattered, you are my family, each of you. Each baby is mine, each little child, each young person, the mothers and fathers, the middleaged, the old. I thank the Lord for all of life—for marriage, for childbirth, even for death which is the door to eternal life. I thank him for the gift of memory through which I can again walk and talk with my husband, clasp my children to me. I thank him for my granddaughter Mary. She has traveled widely and is willing to share her adventures with me. Help me to share my adventures with her... I know the gospel is true and that nothing but living the gospel can bring us joy." 6é ArTrer Gram sat down, Mary continued to hold the baby, who had awakened and was looking at Mary's face with all the intensity of the near-sighted newborn. She lowered him gently to her lap—her uniform was due for a cleaning anyway. During the remaining testimonies, Mary looked at a very young baby for the first time, the miniature hand and wrist, the baby hair, the wee mouth and wobbly head. How helpless and frail! What a miracle that he would someday be a man. The baby clung tightly to her little finger until his mother came to get him at the meeting's close. In the foyer, it was almost like a receiving line, all the people wanting to meet Gram's granddaughter. Then Mary and Gram were back in Gram's room, with POSTMARK: LONDON only fifteen minutes before the taxi would come. "How's your shoulder, Gram?" Mary asked, and Gram said quickly, "Not worth discussing when there's something better to talk about. Before you leave, tell me, is that young man of yours home from his mission yet?" "Yes, Gram—but who told you about Jim?" "Your mother felt pretty bad when you turned him down. He went to England, didn't he?" "Yes, Gram, and he baptized more than one hundred people while he was there." "You're pretty proud of him, Mary?" "Yes, I guess I am." "You're twenty-three now?" "Yes, Gram." "T was twenty-three when your father was born...." "Gram, let me ask you a question, as the testimonies were being borne, did you pray for me?" "T always pray for you, Mary, and for all Eric's and my family. And I always pray that I can be of some use to someone as long as I live." Too quickly, the taxi was waiting. At the door Gram said, "It's a wonderful day we live in, Mary. Tomorrow at this time you'll be in London. [ll look for your card. I don't have one from London yet." Mary stooped to kiss Gram's cheek. ''Yes, Gram, it is a wonderful day we live in. If letters are too slow, there's direct longdistance dialing! Take good care of the London card. It may be the last one with a foreign postmark you'll get from me." 499 For he €stablisheg €stimony -. And 4PPointeg law in Israel] Which commanded Our father » that they Should e€ the known to their Children That the &€neration © might know even the Children Which Should € born; wh Should arise and declare th to the Children (Psalms 78:5-6). Those w O were Privileged + €arly days of forth from th and to People o Fough all the Ould not p Conquest of th rejoiced an Pastures | - + Clothed wit Corn," O Sratitude for COvered Over with INdustrioys and in dependent in their were early Schooled and directeg in ], th Pioneers gro responsibility The word y A r Volume 52 July 1965 Number 7 v4 c ® Belles. Spafford, President ka. E Marianne C: Sharp, First Counselor a ® Louise W. Madsen, © Hulda P. Young, Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer of individual Concern for all the 4 believin that Winnietreq Ss. Manwaring Elna p Ha Mond 502 Change in Order of Relief Society Lessons Attention is called to the change in the order of teaching the social science and literature lessons. Beginning with October 1965, the social science "Teaching the Gospel in the Home" lessons will be taught on the third meeting day of the month instead of the fourth in order that eight lessons may be presented in these correlation lessons. The literature lessons, formerly taught on the third meeting day of the month, will move to the fourth meeting day. Two social science lessons "Teaching the Gospel in the Home" (the lessons for October and November 1965) will be printed in the August issue. The work meeting lessons for October, November, and December will be a continuation of the course "'Molding a Happy Life," by Winnifred C. Jardine. Erratum In the Honor Roll for Nampa Stake (published in the May 1965 issue of the Magazine, page 381), the correct figures should be 1,000 subscriptions, and 980 members, resulting in 102 per cent, which places Nampa Stake among the ten stakes with the highest number of subscriptions. Dear Lord Mae L. Curtis Kindly give to me each day, A prayer to guide me on my way. A blessing, give me strength to live, And learn to love and to forgive. Help me pure and sinless be, To greet each day with faith in thee. Ppa Cried Out, "wh "We're goin Her comp! Want to Cre are you 80ing? You Said 8 to Church, of Nion Streak oyfu ed for Camping knows UPply of film If one Plans to b of Planning ahead 1 NSect-repelient fishhooks, a fe) * 4 list o the loading Of the Car, comes the ave the latest iSsue of e Di S Of the Ch h, including all stake pr i d their locations One's ishop wi rate in Siving formation n:, arrange i Schedule to cam a S Near as POSsible arge one! Some Of our h en we attendeq 4Ppiest very smal branches. At one 505 JULY 1965 spot, the branch president had to send for more sacrament cups, because our family, plus two other visiting families, brought the attendance up to 200 per cent. The spirit there was wonderful, and we all saw that the teaching and the procedures were the same familiar ones we knew in our home ward. The next step, after planning where to stop over, from Saturday afternoon to Monday morning, is to find out the types of campgrounds available near the ward or branch. Perhaps your budget allows for a motel now and then. If so, this simplifies planning and probably puts you nearer the local chapel or hall where the ward or branch meets. The directory information your bishop gave you has given you names to contact Saturday afternoon, when you arrive in the town where you plan to attend church on Sunday. A phone call to the local bishop or branch president will not only tell you time schedules, but will also introduce you to a fine member of the Church who will undoubtedly be looking for your family and be ready to greet them and show them which classes to attend. Saturday is also the time to buy ahead all you will need to prepare Sunday's meals and Monday's breakfast. If you have camped before, you know this can be done. You'll have your favorite recipes, perhaps cottage-fried potatoes, no-bake cookies, and so forth. You'll know certain items can be stored, others must be used up. Applesauce cake, for instance, in a tight container, is still nice and moist for Sunday's dessert treat. On Saturdays, we also like to have some Church magazines or books to read on Sundays. Mother and daughters may have to wait in the car while the boys and their father attend Priesthood meeting, and the time goes rapidly if something special has been saved and is a surprise for this time. Clothing may also be planned by mother. She knows which dresses and trousers are least likely to look crumpled. Of course, all Sunday clothing will be on hangers by Saturday night and look surprisingly well pressed after hanging overnight. Shoes (stored in plastic bags) can be slipped on the last thing. A time well loved and remembered is the gathering in the motel, the tent, or trailer house for family prayer. Usually, even the tiny children remember to thank their Creator for the beauties he has provided. After Sunday School you will be thrilled to see your children making new friends. They will have enjoyed their classes and will be eager to go back to sacrament meeting. Several times the local members have pointed out areas of great beauty we would have missed without their help. We have even enjoyed their hospitality on Sunday afternoons. Our son had a birthday one Sabbath while we were near Tillamook, Oregon, and some lovely members there invited all of us to their home overlooking the Pacific. While in Yosemite National Park, we traveled forty miles to Sunday School and sacrament meeting. The branch there, also, was full of friendly saints. Our children kept their attendance records intact and learned many lessons of worship. Many small branches provide excellent sermons and their members travel great distances to worship on the Sabbath. Children understand and appreciate these more after their own traveling. These members know, as campers can learn, that ''A Sabbath well spent brings a week of content." In the Pyrenees Diane Houghton Birmingham, England | had thought that beauty was no more, Pyrenees, Until | saw your mountains. Words do not go Where | have been, The sights I've seen, And beauty lives again. 506 Dorothy Hicks @ "Summertime, and the living is easy..." says a popular song. And who among us, with the coming of summer, does not look forward to those long, lazy days of "easy" living? Children count the days until they will be free of the classroom. Fathers sisters. But what about Mom? Is this an "easy-living" time for her? Frankly, no! Her laundry load triples in size as washable summer cotton clothing replaces winter make so well. In addition to these tasks, a mother is still supposed to prepare three nourishing meals a day for her family, and the dishes need washing, just as much as they do in the winter. If she's not careful, a mother can end up feeling sorry for herself as summer approaches. It doesn't have to be this way, though. There are any number of shortcuts the mistress of the household can use to make her own summertime living easier. For those three meals a day, check your cookbooks. You'll be surprised to find how many of your favorite recipes can be prepared in the cool morning hours, stored in the refrigerator until evening, and either served crisply cold, or popped into the oven for a few minutes before serving, if you want a hot meal. And by the way, did you know that nutrition experts have said that even in summer, everyone should have at least one hot food during the day? You'll find a few recipes at the end of this article to help you take life easy this summer. Your baking can be done in the morning, or, if you prefer, slip a cake, on one of the gloomy, rainy days that come along sometimes even in the summer, and pop them into the freezer for use on hot days. Even that pile of summer cottons doesn't need to make washing such a formidable task as you might think. Don't try to do a big washing once a week, but do two or three smaller ones. Perhaps you might want to put a load of clothes into the washer before breakfast. By the time the breakfast dishes are washed, your clothes are ready to go on the line, or in the dryer. Or load your washer at bedtime and let the clothes wash while you are getting your beauty sleep. When morning comes, they're ready to hang up, if they dry in the air. Once they're washed, the clothes do have to be ironed, but this needn't be a wearisome chore either. Many of the new summer cottons are drip-dry fabrics, requiring little or no ironing. Just take them off the line or out of 507 JULY 1965 the dryer, and put them away. Cut your ironing down to bare essentials. Such items as dish towels, sheets, and pajamas, for example, look nice when they are ironed, but they don't absolutely need it. And as with your washing, don't try to do all your ironing at one time, but do a little bit several mornings during the week. If you have a shady porch, move your ironing board out there and use an extension cord to plug in your iron. It's much more comfortable. And speaking of comfort, don't just stand there. Sit down to iron. You won't get nearly as tired. These are just a few shortcuts that can help make summer a time of easier living for mother, as well as for her family. Once you start looking, you'll probably find many more. Just make it a point to get as many jobs as possible out of the way during the morning. In the afternoon, do something that can be done while you relax. Darning socks, letting down hems, mending, and sewing on buttons are a few suggestions. Take some time just to relax each day, too. You'll feel better, and your family will appreciate your unruffled attitude. Anyway, happy summertime! And now here are the recipes I promised you earlier. FRANKFURTER-POTATO CASSEROLE Make a sauce by combining 1 can cream of celery soup, 34 cup milk, 44 cup finely chopped onion, and 2-3 teaspoons prepared mustard. In a buttered 114- quart casserole, arrange alternate layers of 4 cups diced, cooked potatoes (a good way to use leftover ones), the sauce, and 14 pound of frankfurters split lengthwise. Cover. Refrigerate until 45 minutes before serving time. Place in cold oven and bake covered for 30 minutes at 400 degrees; uncover and bake for 15 minutes more. Makes four servings. This is good as a change from potato salad, and really involves no more work or time. CASSEROLE STEW Roll 1 pound beef cubes in 2 tablespoons flour, 14 teaspoon salt, and a dash of pepper. Brown in 2 tablespoons shortening. Stir in 1 can tomato soup, 1 cup water, and 1 minced garlic clove, if desired. Cover and cook slowly for one hour. Add 6 carrots cut in small pieces, and 8 small white onions. Cover and cook for one hour more. Cool and place in refrigerator. Remove from refrigerator 30 minutes before serving time. Add one ten-ounce package frozen peas, cover, and cook for 30 minutes. For a thicker stew, uncover for the last ten minutes of cooking time. ORANGE SALAD Combine 1 package orange gelatin and 1 cup hot water. When gelatin is dissolved, add 14 cup cold water. Allow to cool, and before it begins to set, stir in 1 pint orange sherbet, 1 banana cut in slices, 1 can mandarin oranges drained, and 10 large marshmallows cut into small pieces. Chill until serving time. This is also good as a dessert. If you prefer, the mandarin orange juice may be used in place of the cold water. MACARONI-WIENER SALAD Mix 4 ounces (14 package) drained, cooked elbow macaroni with 1 tablespoon grated onion and 14 cup thin French dressing. Stir in 1 cup finely diced celery, 1% cup sliced radishes, 2 tablespoons minced parsley (if desired), and 4 thinly sliced cooked wieners. Season with salt and pepper, cover and chill until serving time. Season 14 cup dairy sour cream with 1 teaspoon mustard and fold into salad just before serving. This salad is good served ''as is'' or it may be used to stuff large, ripe tomatoes. If you stuff the tomatoes, you may want to double the proportions on the sour cream and mustard in the last step, and use half of this mixture to top the tomatoes after stuffing. This makes a hearty main dish for any summer evening. 508 Sleepwear and Sunsuits Janet W. Breeze Here is an interesting idea for making the most of those larger material scraps: sleepwear or sunsuits for children can be constructed by using a different print of cotton for each pattern piece. If second-time-around buttons are used, and you have patterns on hand, the cost of such articles of clothing can be limited to thread, and elastic for pajamas. Best of all—children call them '"'fun clothes!" 509 Poters, oF IA ae P FOREIGN CASTES —— Florian Fy. Thayn et 3 _—, P ee) LY WI" tans Migs d RAR Sy LLY Ty v) "Or, vale A] AY | 4) yA) Fight-Layey French Torte France, n know about it! It is nNch cook Will wish It had Originated - Lo our knowledge. This j member of the G Y mother, Afton Ww. Hunt, a enera] Oard of Relief Society. It j es of Serving and it wi I Fillingyy cup Sugar: 5 tbsp. Cornstarch: 4 tbs Paste by Mixin these j i i 2 CUP water 4nd. Cook Consistency, If filling thickens to heat, add 1 4 tsp. Cinnamon, 1 tsp. R. Coo] before Spreading. JULY 1965 (When cold, filling should be of firm pudding consistency, so it will hold its shape. If it is too thin, layers will slip.) Cut second layer of cake from loaf and lift to top of first layer. Repeat filling spread. Continue this process until the entire loaf, except the top layer, is layered and spread. There should be 8 to 9 layers if the uncut loaf measured nearly 5 inches high. Now spread the entire loaf on the sides and top with frosting. Let set several hours or overnight at room temperature. To serve, cut in thin slices as you would slice bread, being careful to support each slice with spatula, and lift to a dessert plate. Hilo Coconut For a crispy, non-sweet, munching treat, try these coconut chips. Like peanuts, it is impossible to stop with just a taste. Break or saw a coconut in two. Place with cut sides up on cookie sheet and into oven heated to 300 degrees for half an hour, or until a knife run between the shell and the meat loosens the meat and it comes free in large pieces. Do not remove the thin brown coating clinging to the white meat. With a vegetable peeler, and working from the cut edge of the coconut meat, slice into thin _ strips, keeping them as large as possible. Spread in broiler pan and sprinkle with salt, turning lightly once to mix salt. Heat the oven to about 200 degrees or less. Place pan of coconut slices in oven and let remain several hours or until dry. Coconut burns easily, so avoid using higher heat, but dry as you would dried corn. When chips are dry, store in airtight containers. SOMETHING BEAUTIFUL Joyce L. Canham In reference to the June 1964 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, in particular, the article on making parchment stationery, by Peggy Tangren, I want to say "Thanks so much." Today I took a walk along an oft-traveled route where the scenery is weeds, vines, and a few wild flowers. When I stooped to pick one particularly lovely bloom I decided to see if I could start my collection of flowers and grasses to press for my stationery. With my eyes thus opened, I suddenly beheld the beauty I could never have seen otherwise. Even from the unattractive slopes by the roadside I gathered some of the most beautiful plants I have ever seen. There were leaves shaped like birds, tiny blossoms hidden in the grass, and some of the grasses, having gone to seed, produced billowy clouds of color. My heart is overflowing as I write to thank you for helping me once again to see the beauty that is always present. Today, I felt the magic of discovering something beautiful. Something stirred in me that has long been dormant, and with all my heart I want to say thanks. The fire of my love of beauty and nature has been rekindled, and my heart is full. May God inspire and always bless you in publishing this wonderful Magazine. 512 Elsie C. Carroll @ "Men are that they might have joy" does not mean that we exist solely to enjoy happiness. Joy does not come to us ready-made as a lasting gift through life. Nobody is ever happy twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. We must learn to snatch happiness in little bits. We must learn to recognize it, or the elements or conditions out of which it can be created, and then to form the habit of snatching it or its possibilities, and treasuring it while it lasts. One husband paid his wife the following beautiful tribute. "Mary has brought the ability to snatch bits of happiness from life as it passes by, to a fine art. Even trying days do not baffle her. Yesterday she started to do the weekly washing. Something went wrong with the washing machine. She could not get a repair man until the middle of the afternoon. But did she burst into tears or lose her temper? Instead, she stirred up a batch of muffins and called a newly made friend with a large family who lives down the street and told her she was coming to help with a basket of mending she had seen when she and her Relief Society visiting teacher companion had called a few days before. When I came home last night, she did not moan to me about the broken machine or the disruption of the household schedule she likes to keep. She gave me an interesting account of the visit she had had with this overworked neighbor and of plans they had made for future working together." It is worth time and thought to discover sources of happiness within our reach and the possibilities we have of availing ourselves of them. We may not be able to travel to different parts of the world, nor to attend fine operas and stimulating lectures, nor wear costly clothes, nor live in elegant homes; but we can thrill over the constant, ever-changing grandeurs in nature; we can read good books; we can make family relationships joyous and precious, and be gladdened by the opportunities and blessings of friendships. And, above all. We can find enduring joy in keeping close to our Father in heaven. 514 he Meaihdor 7 Eze Betty G. Spencer @ The well-worn, deep metal pie plate didn't look like anything valuable as it lay neglected in a kitchen drawer. An outsider would have quickly discarded it as something of little value, but to our family, gathered to prepare the house for new occupants, it represented a cherished characteristic of a friendly, vivacious grandmother. The pie plate was what we called Grandmother's Neighbor Plate, and it was one of her most often used kitchen utensils. Grandmother always seemed to make a little extra whenever she prepared a special treat for her family. Somehow, the extra was placed in the pie plate and carried to an appreciative friend or neighbor. When sickness, trouble, or death visited a neighborhood home, the pie plate inevitably was carried to the kitchen door, and the sorrowing family members were cheered by the delectable contents. Grandmother, an excellent cook, was locally famous for her flaky pie crusts, mouth-watering fruitcakes, and feathery light hot rolls. The Neighbor Plate helped Grandmother get acquainted with a newcomer, too. Moving day was sure to find her running over with a "little something" to help out with the first meal in the new home. We soon noticed that the Neighbor Plate was an important link in the close, warm friendships that grew along her street. Frequently, the plate was returned heaped with apples, berries, pieces of newly baked cake, or other special treats from a grateful heart. Gratitude delighted Grandmother, but those few neighbors who felt duty-bound to return the favor were a genuine disappointment. Grandmother felt that her offering should be savored, enjoyed—even appreciated—but not necessarily paid back. Grandmother is gone, now, but the philosophical values she implanted in our hearts are with us still. Her daughters have remained in the same friendly mountain valley where they grew to womanhood, but the grandchildren have settled across the country from Florida to California. Our homes are as varied as we are, but each of us _ has an important piece of kitchen equipment. We would never think of keeping house without a Neighbor Plate! Our Grandmother's philosophy of giving is as appropriate today as it was fifty years ago. What we give is not really too important. It may be lemon meringue pie in Florida, or Hungarian goulash in California. Whatever else we may add, love and friendliness are the most important ingredients that are ever offered on a Neighbor Plate! 515 Gleanings From the Summer Nancy M. Armstrong WHO FINDS ENCHANTMENT? Life displays its enchantment only for those who keep a light in their eyes and hope in their hearts. Life's magic is only for those who face the winds—even the furies—with courage. SELF-PORTRAIT We each paint the canvas of our own life. How we paint, will affect, for good or ill, the lives of those who view the picture. Are we painting with bold, true, clean-cut brush strokes? Or does our picture lack conviction? Are our colors warm, vibrant, harmonious? Or are they cold, inert, confused? Have we placed the major, lasting values in relief and made the minor, trivial ones mere shadows? Or is our picture out of balance? No life-portrait is perfect. Let's retouch the canvas now, before it dries, to bring it nearer our desired goal of perfection. TIME BRINGS AWARENESS Because it takes time to gain awareness of the manifold blessings of life, and to realize that the poverty and riches of life are within us, age augments life's values far beyond compensation for lost youth. SO MUCH FOR SO LITTLE Noticing there was unused seed in the cup when I cleaned my parakeet's cage, I began throwing it in the back yard for the birds. When snow arrived, I put a board I could easily sweep off near the door and added extra seed and bread to the diet. When I go out each morning, no birds are in our tree, nor can I see any nearby, yet the door will scarcely be closed before a colorful variety arrives to reward me. No longer is dishwashing a prosaic task. Through the window while I work, I watch birds happily pecking, hopping, flying; hear their gay chattering; sense their gratitude for my small thoughtfulness. Often our smallest kindness is manifoldly rewarded. If, in no other way, we are rewarded by a feeling of well-being. Longfellow expressed the idea beautifully in Evangeline. "That which the fountain sends forth returns again to the fountain." 516 ® Alice Gubler Sabin Se - — —_ @ On my last pilgrimage downtown I met an old office friend. We stopped at a busy intersection to chat. The city streets were harassed with the snarl of the early morning traffic. People were rushing to work. Jubilantly I said, "Jake, we're moving away. I am on my last errand downtown. We're going to become ranchers." "Ranchers!" he exclaimed. "I can't think of anything more miserable. Are you sure you know what you're doing?" "Quite sure." I grinned. As we talked, a little breeze scuttled between the canyon walls of the buildings stirring up cigarette wrappers and gum papers in the gutter. "TI couldn't stand to live in the country. It would drive me crazy,' he said. "Are you sure you want to leave all this? Just listen!" I listened. All of the sights and sounds around me were the gears and cogs of the big machine that e - lt 'eel Sorry oo.. A!».. ForMe~—__ was the city. The day was well in motion. "I love it," he continued. "I wouldn't leave this, nor my office for all of your open country." And I don't believe he would. He sort of looked like a piece of office equipment; a little too pale and already becoming hollow chested from leaning over a desk too many years. Sadly he shook his head. "I feel sorry for you. You're making a wild choice, but I wish you luck." He gave me a goodbye handshake and I watched him sprint across the street before the light changed. He would take the elevator up to the fifth floor of an old smoky building, put his key in the door and let himself into his stuffy, paper cluttered little office. From his window he would look down on the top of department stores and_ service stations. In the distance he would be able to see black clouds rolling forth from a pair of smokestacks. Back at the house I closed the 517 JULY 1965 drapes for the last time on the one picture window. It had been a chummy window. Always I could look out of it right into the picture window of the house next door. Our house had been cozy, but now the rooms were bare. We made our final inspection then locked the door. After we pulled the trailer out of the drive, we looked back at the yards. The grass and the concrete were continuous with the grass and concrete of the man's next door. We drove past the houses on our avenue. Each one was its own little foreign country where strangers dwelt. 1 SHALL never forget the day we pulled up to the ranch house. It was early evening. The sun was settling into the grove of trees behind the barn, sending red shafts of light through the pillars that were the lodgepole pines. I stood transfixed on the wide back porch. The yard was a riot of flowers—pink peonies, painted daisies, blue delphiniums, and a carpet of purple and yellow violas that ran helter-skelter into the tall grass. From the pole fence at the edge of the garden the meadow sloped down to a meandering creek. The creek was flanked with willows and_ serviceberry bushes. Beyond lay: the wheat fields and alfalfa bordered with quaking aspens and ponderosa pines. Dew was already gathering on the grass and the air was crisp and cool. It was hard to believe that this was home, really and truly home. It seemed more like an exotic vacation spot where one would be privileged to spend only a night or two. A swing in the yard invited 518 me. As it fanned me high above the corral fence I could see a neighbor's house half obscured by trees. In a sweep the view encompassed timber land and mountains in the distance against the sky. Swings are great. They aren't just for the young, but mighty fine for anyone's anatomy. We found strawberries ripening in the garden. Daily, we heaped them high in a large glass bowl on our table. No dividing them in individual dishes from little baskets from the store. They stayed in season until the raspberries began begging to be picked. Our neighbors told us that the growing season was short. The seeds we planted seemed to know it. They grew rapidly. Gathering crisp vegetables from the garden is pure pleasure compared to collecting them in a grocery cart at a super-market. And they have a flavor that I supposed had vanished with my childhood. The familiar things I find at the ranch are electricity and butane and the appliances they operate. This permits us to cling to a way of life that we have come to expect. The things that are new, and a never-ending delight are mostly the native gifts of this country. I get a nostalgic feeling for the frontier days in the rustic, pinelined lean-to. On cool days I fill the woodbox from the grove and make a fire in the stove just for the sound of it, the smell of it, and the feel of it. In this room I can enjoy the patter of the rain on the roof. The rest of the house is as modern as today. There is a well in the flower garden. The water is cold and sparkling and good. So different from the treated water we were used to in the city. An electric pump delivers it into the house. Outdoors beckons every day. I walk through the meadow helping my husband move the cows from one pasture to another, or I go into the grove for an armful of wood, or down to the garden to water or hoe. I thrill to the feel of the wind, the rain, and the sun. My wanderlust feet take me along the creek and I see the water dimple where a small fish snatches a bug from the surface. I stop to eat a handful of serviceberries, remembering from reading history that these berries supplied nourishment for the Indians and early pioneers. Wild fruits and flowers flourish along the fence line, the creek, and through the meadow. As I walk I find little bluebells, thistles with purple pom-poms, wild geraniums, larkspurs, poppies, and daisies. Mushrooms grow from a vivid red color to a startling white. It is here that I saw my first fairy ring. It was just a few days after a rain. From the house I could see the luminous white circle down where the meadow dips the lowest. It was early evening. The sun had just set. I climbed over the corral fence and fairly flew down the slope. There they were, phosphorescent mushrooms, DON'T FEEL SORRY FOR ME making a mystical fairy ring in the dark grass. One night when the air was warm and still, I looked out our window to see hungry red flames leaping up behind the trees the other side of our grain field. "It is all right," my husband said. "The neighbors are burning brush." We drove over to their ranch to watch the roaring blaze. Where else, but in the open country could a fire a quarter of a mile long be a spectacle of beauty instead of a tragedy? There isn't a great deal of wild life on the ranch. There were deer tracks across the summer fallow one morning. We see an occasional pheasant in the field, and ducks stop briefly in the little pools along the creek. Squirrels chatter in the trees and crows hold conventions in the grove and the meadow. Once in awhile we see a skunk scurrying for cover. Away from the city lights, we have re-discovered what a show the night sky has to offer. Once more we enjoy the brilliance of stars and moon and the lightning when there is a storm. Night skies in the city are pale above the street lights and flashing neon signs. The only lights we see here at night, aside from those in the heavens, are the distant mellow lights from our neighbors' homes that reach out across our meadow like a warm handclasp. Farm folks are friendly. Our neighbors run in with a little jar of chokecherry jelly or a picking of beans. They help us harvest our hay and grain, and doctor a calf when trouble comes. The ranch women in our neighborhood milk cows, run the hay baler, and drive tractor. They can 519 Synopsis: @ When Joan finished her reports it was nearly ten. She let herself into her room with a weariness She hadn't felt for a long time. It's a good feeling, she thought, to be weary with the doing of important things, The light was. Out and Joan was glad she didn't have to be alone. She had always disliked going into a darkened room at the end of 4 day, alone. She wanted to sit on the edge of Kathy's bed and talk the way she had with her mother when she Joan Morgan has left her l involvement and grief over the death of a young patient. She Shirley Thulin CHAPTER 3 Position at Elmdale Hospital because was young, but she knew she couldn't, so she undressed without turning on 4 light. The brightness from the street lamp just outside her window was enough. Joan could tell Kathy was in her bed, but she wondered if she were asleep yet. "Kathy. Ad Joan called softly. "What?" Kathy sounded very sleepy. "T..." and Joan didn't know what to say. She had wanted to tell her to notify her mother that 521 JULY 1965 she wouldn't be coming home every week end. She wanted to tell her it was not good for the well-being of a hospital to break regulations she wanted to talk about Tom, and to explain what she was trying to accomplish with him but the night held a sweetness that she could not bring herself to disturb with unpleasant conversation. So she only said, "Goodnight, Kathy." "Joan do you think Dean Dr. Desmond will ever marry?" "That's hard to tell."' Joan wasn't prepared for this line of questioning. "He makes me so mad." Kathy was sitting up, now, and Joan knew she had been lying there, thinking of the Doctor, and hoping, and planning, as only the young dare to hope and plan even when there seems to be no use. "T think he will marry," Joan said. "He may take a good long time to pick and choose, but he will marry." "He says he won't.. Cially a nurse." "He will, most likely,' Joan told her. '"Besides, he never goes anyplace to meet anyone else." "Do you think if I would go away someplace and then come back, he'd?" "Kathy, you don't want to go - anywhere besides,"' Joan was teasing now... "he might marry someone else while you were gone." "Do you like him, Joan?" "Yes, he's very intriguing." "Do you like him a lot, I mean?" Joan was about to tell Kathy she didn't like him any more than. Espe- 522 anyone else, but she knew that wasn't the truth. She swallowed to make her voice behave, then said, "'Oh, I could, I suppose...." "He likes you. He likes you a lot." Joan felt like being very brisk with Kathy. She felt her armor melting away and wanted to do something about it. What was there about this girl, that made her so mellow, in spite of her promises to herself to keep her reserve? ''Kathy, I have come to this hospital to." "To get away from something 1 can tell. The others think you are just naturally that it's just your nature to... I mean but I can tell you've been hurt." "Please, Kathy, I don't want to talk about it That is, there's really nothing to talk about. I just want, more than anything, to be a good administrator, and to take good care of my patients." "Joan, are you going to make me stop going home' on week ends?" "Kathy, I think...." "As long as the others don't care, why should it bother you?" "It's just a matter of principle, that's all." "But Uncle Jay doesn't mind." "He " "And I was thinking that maybe you could come home with me sometime. You'd love Mom and Dad. They are always after me to bring some of the nurses home. It would do you good." "Let's get to sleep. It's late." "But you will come, won't you? This Friday?" Joan was about to reject the invitation when a new approach RING AROUND Hep HEART to her Problem with Kathy came to her, [f I do 80, she thought, T she knew he had felt nothing of the things she was much bette, discipline among the rying to make him fee] nurses. 2 °M, do yoy know What?" Joan answered Kathy, She said Joan Pulled Open the s ades, and she would £0 with her and all the began to tidy the Several va es While she was accepting, she knew f flower on his dresser "T know the rea] Teason. She wanted to be 2 fellow " Part of a family, €ven if only for "Tl just bet yoy do." Tom one week end.. Didn't €, and his Volce was In the morning Joan heard flat. «7 t this fellow jg Para. Kathy let herself Out the door lyzed fro his waist down and She turne Over and smiled to he drives S Own car, nd dances erself. S knew K hy was On and he's the father of Seven chi] er way to have breakfast with Doctor Des nd, and Somehow "Only three," it pleased her She Teadied her. = Joan fel} flushed Only three? That funny While The fellows everyone else knows there was a happy little Ingle in- 4 Ways have at least Seven, and Side her. She hadn't felt this Way they Own their own USInesseg for a long hile. ] wonder what and they re q happy as larks," I'm go happy for, she thought € turned Over then, with a look ut she really knew It was that frighten d Joan, and then €Cause she felt that, at last, she angered her. D found the place Where she really belonged. You going to stop Playing games? Joan had always kept alert to I the hospital] life. Had never let it become dull o k yo know al] the » but you don't. There Y ording are even some questions of Which It's like 4 World in itself, She yoy haven't thought." hought, as she alked along the "Like What?" Corridors The s und of the carts "Like, who takes Care of yoy eing push d along, the Sight of While yo sulk, and enjoy being Whiteclad urses al] hurrying, pitied? J Mean, after you leave their Starcheq Caps perched ato €an all the rest Neatly arranged haj [ of your life? You think you can tiled hal] floors Spend the rest of your life right all this brought a tinge of excitehere in thi hospital bed, She]- Ment to Joan. Tered behj d closed Shades. What 00m 212 was darkened again appens when the doctors tell] OM was turned to the w I you that yoy £0 home? What The Song in her heart Stopped, 4ppens then and the Nn its place a tightness SWelled 523 JULY 1965 "And make you think? That's all I'm trying to do, Tom. Make you think of the things that are coming the things you could be doing." "T can't do anything. Not one single thing,"' he shouted, and the veins along his forearms stood out with the firm pressure of his clenched fists. "Yes, you can. You can learn to do a lot of things with your strong arms and hands. You can do so much for your mother and the kids... You could even be an example to those little brothers and sisters of yours." Tom was crying now, so Joan left. She walked out of his room, leaving the door open, and hoping that she had also opened the door to his thinking. She knew his tears were good therapy. Joan hurried to the chart room. She wanted to find Doctor Desmond to talk to him about Tom. She wanted to get to him first, in order to avoid another misunderstanding about the possible effect she was having on the boy. I think I can make him understand, she thought, if I can talk to him about it. The chart work was always so interesting to Joan, that she didn't notice at first when Doctor Desmond came into the room. She glanced up, and the look on his face told her that he had already been to see Tom. "Hello. You've just come from seeing Tom?" "Yes. I wish you could see what you're doing to that boy." "T wish I could make you see what I'm trying to do for him." "Miss Morgan I know that the therapy you are attempting 524 has been known to work wonders in lots of cases, but with Tom it's different. He... He is of a different nature. He is." "I'm sorry to differ with you. The nature of the patient rarely has much to do with this type. " "The nature of the patient has everything to do with it." Doctor Desmond's voice had raised to a pitch which bordered on the angry side, and Joan was close to tears. They were both relieved when Miss Jackson opened the door. She walked to the cabinet without a word, and the silence in the room was like a recently closed tomb, full of recently stilled voices. Joan wrote on her chart, and Miss Jackson pushed papers into their places, and Doctor Desmond just stood there. It was Miss Jackson who broke the silence. "Doctor Desmond, are you through with your rounds?" "Almost." "How's Tom today? "Same." Joan knew Miss Jackson had asked the leading question knowingly, and it annoyed her, but his answer pleased her. He hadn't taken the opening to humiliate her, which gave her a strange feeling of pleasure. "Are you going to lunch?" Miss Jackson asked, knowing the subject should be changed. "In awhile. I have things...." Miss Jackson left then, and she no sooner was gone than Doctor Desmond began almost where he had left off. ''Miss Morgan, Tom has to be handled gently. You see, he is a boy who takes 99 some life very seriously. Therefore, he doesn't need to be sobered with startling statements. He already realizes the seriousness of his predicament, therefore you needn't point it out to him." "He needs to put up a fight...." "He has fought for all these weeks. He nearly lost his life, you know." "But, he has been fighting against himself. Now he needs to get angry enough to want to get out of here and go home and "We had him almost ready to want to go home." "To go home, how? To retire to his bed behind darkened doors and windows? He has to want to take his place again. We have to let him know he can." "But can he? A half-a-boy oh a farm what good is that?" "It's better than no boy at all." "Anyone can tell you're a city gir "a Joan got up now and stepped toward the door. "Doctor Desmond, I was reared on a farm. My father and my uncles and my neighbors were all farmers. I've seen one-legged farmers, and farmers with one arm and." "But no boys with the use of only half his body." "Yes. One. He even learned to drive a tractor with the use of hand controls." She left the room with a strange feeling of triumph. She knew she had begun to make him understand, or at least not to object to her continuing to work with Tom. I have to succeed now, she thought. I just have to. Joan went to the elevator. There were some X-rays she RING AROUND HER HEART wanted to check. When the elevator doors opened, Kathy and David stepped out. "Hi," David greeted her. Kathy didn't say anything. "Hi," Joan returned his greeting. Y "Going up?" he asked. "Ves." "Mind if I ride along?" Joan grinned. "Not at. All, David. You, too, Kathy?" "No. I'm due in the lab, see you." David waited until the doors slid shut and then, as he pushed the right button, he turned and smiled at Joan. "What's so amusing?" asked him. "Nothing amusing. It's just that well, Miss Morgan, you know how everyone's saying I mean that... Well, some are saying about Tom." Joan looked at the boy. He was only out of high school, but as tall as a man, and right now his eyes sparkled. "Yes, I know what they're saying about Tom about me." "Well, I don't agree with them." "You don't? How come?" "Because he does feel sorry for himself, and today right after you left I went to see him. He talked to me, Miss Morgan, and that's she 525 JULY 1965 the first time he hasn't sent me away." "What did he talk about?" "He asked me what I was planning on doing in the future. I told him I was just working here so as to save enough money - to go to school. He asked me what my major was going to be and when I was planning to start." "He did? Oh, David, that's wonderful." "Then I told him if he'd learn to handle a wheel chair by September, I'd take him with me to register." "What did he say?" "He just turned to the wall and said he didn't want to go to any old university... That it wouldn't do him any good to learn anything." "David, you just keep talking to him. We'll have him up in no time." Joan finished the day with a light heart. She hadn't thought of talking to Tom about school. This is it, she told herself. This is really the way to reach him. She went to her room to change. There were some things she needed from the nearby shopping center. She was disappointed to find that Kathy wasn't in their room. Funny, she thought, how you always want to share good news. Joan paused for a moment on the top step of the building. The view of the city from the hospital was always inspiring to her. The little starlets of light had begun to twinkle from some of the houses, and they comforted her. There are people in those little houses, Joan told herself. People with families and with problems and with things happening. The 526 houses were nestled against a green tree backdrop and seemed to be like fortresses, protecting their own families, and yet the windows and doors seemed to smile a welcome to strangers. Joan already felt a part of this town, and there, high on the hill, looking down at the city, she felt that she wanted more than anything else to live in one of those little homes and be part of a family. The walk to the store was pleasant. The evening was cool and the employees in the shop were friendly. Like a different world, she thought. No more than a couple of blocks away, but they have never heard of Doctor Desmond or Doctor Niles or Tom. They didn't accuse her of anything with their eyes or have secret meanings in their words.... They were just nice people waiting on a customer. As Joan came near the nurse's dorm, she saw Kathy coming along the walk. "Kathy." Kathy almost didn't stop, but then she did, and Joan could tell she was reluctant and wondered why. "Is something wrong?" "Oh, not anything really. I mean, nothing new, anyway." "T wanted to talk about the plans for the week end..'.. How long a drive is it?" "Only a couple of hours. The bus leaves at five P. M. So we'll leave right after our shift tomorrow." "Kathy, would you rather I didn't go with you? I mean, has something happened to change your mind?" Kathy smiled then, a very slow smile. "No, I haven't changed my mind only, oh, Joan, if you Left to right, J, lety Presidency. > Secon. Hewitt: First €ports: «! Re, Visiting te t Y guests Present." 528 NOTES FROM THE FIELD Box Elder Stake (Utah) Intermountain Indian School Branch Relief Society Left to right: Alice B. James, advisor: Lahoma Mexican: Theresa Reed: Loretta Grey: Lorraine Paddock; Betty Lou Yazzie: Helena Begay;: Maggie Chee; Anita Begay; Evelyn Hudson: Eleanore Jones: Sadie McKinley; Mar. Garet Crank; Hattie Yazzie; Ilene Rock, Secretary-Treasurer; Essie Mariano, Second Counselor; Celia Blackgoat, First Counselor: Lillian Chavez, President. Bernice H. Rasmussen, President, Box Elder Relief Society, reports: 'The Intermountain Indian School Branch in Brigham City, Utah, organized its first Relief Society January 17, 1965, under the direction of the Box Elder Stake Presidency, and by the Branch President Howard F. Marshall, Jr. With the help and approval of the General Board of Relief Society, and Stake Relief Society President Bernice H. Rasmussen, her Counselors Eva Jeppsen and Faye Hansen, and Secretary-Treasurer Lola Anderson, and the board of Box Elder Stake Relief Society, appropriate lessons have been selected and are being presented by the Indian students in a fine manner. "Alice James has been appointed Relief Society advisor to this group of Indian students, and she is very enthusiastic and sincere in helping in this new Relief Society organization. The first Relief Society project was to make bread for sacrament for the Sunday meetings of the Intermountain Branch. They are now planning to prepare and serve a banquet for the Aaronic Priesthood members of the branch. At present a group of Singing Sisters in this Relief Society have been practicing musical numbers to sing in the branch sacrament meetings. The Relief Society is becoming a great influence for good in the lives of these girls and is helping them to become more active Latterday Saints." 529 JULY 1965 North Sanpete Stake (Utah) Relief Society Presidents Honored at Pageant March 18, 1965 Left to right: Pearle M. Olsen (also former member, General Board of Relief Society); Ruby S. Jensen; Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society; Pearle U. Winkler; Louise B. Johansen. All but Sister Madsen have served as presidents. Sister Johansen, present President, reports: ""A pageant 'Memories of North Sanpete Stake Relief Society,' reviewing the history of the stake, and commemorating its sixty-fifth anniversary. Was presented. A reception line of past and present stake Relief Society presidents and stake presidents greeted 325 guests, as they viewed a large history of the stake. "A large, three-tiered cake, with a Relief Society emblem made of frosting, and a sugar memory book, adorned the refreshment table, where cake and ice cream were served. Beautiful colored slides were shown as a reader related the organization of the first Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and also represented President Brigham Young leading the pioneers to the promised valley, and the settlement of Sanpete. "Originally, the stake comprised all of Sanpete County, and in 1900, it was divided into North and South Sanpete Stakes. "Stake board members and ward presidents were given special recognition. The highlights of the program were the view of a picture of General President of Relief Society Belle S. Spafford, and to have Counselor Louise W. Madsen present to represent the General Board of Relief Society and to give an inspiring message." Central American Mission Relief Society Conference Guatemala, February 25, 1965 Left to right: Carmen G. O'Donnal, Assistant Supervisor, Mission Relief Society; Angelina Perez de Sac, Second Counselor, native of Quezaltenango; Glenna A. Hansen, Supervisor, Central American Mission Relief Society; Aleine M. Young, member, General Board of Relief Society; Marina G. De Oliva, President, Central American Mission Relief Society. Sister Hansen reports: "Despite the fact that twenty-four hours before the conference, the Guatemalan government, because of a minor political uprising, had declared the country 'in a state of siege,' and canceled any meetings which involved more than four people, the Third Annual Conference of Relief Society was held as planned. Upon hearing of the restrictive decree, President Terrence L. Hansen of the Central American Mission, requested and received special permission from the Minister of National Defense to hold the scheduled meetings. "Under the direction of Sister Hansen, the conference was planned with the theme 'Service Through the Relief Society." During the conference all of the demonstrations were given to help the sisters better to learn their callings toward better leadership through better planning. The demonstrations were given under the direction of native sisters from Guatemala. By authority of Elder Marion G. Romney, Sister Young of the General Board came to observe, instruct, and inspire the sisters. "All districts in Guatemala were represented, and six sisters from the neighboring country of El] Salvador attended. Eighty-four sisters were present at the morning leadership session. In the afternoon 145 sisters and thirty special guests were present. President Hansen, and other representatives of the Priesthood also attended the conference." 530 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 'he ~ SPF} = dae aes, fs +. V4 ) >, ww fo i. Ww 531 JULY 1965 CENTRAL BRITISH MISSION Worcester District International Bazaar, December 5, 1964 Second row, left to right: Eileen Dunyon, Supervisor, Central British Mission: and (slightly to the front) Edna Byrne, President, Worcester District Relief Society (wearing hairband). Sister Dunyon reports: "The Worcester District Bazaar had a rousing start in the afternoon, when the sisters broke forth in singing 'Joy to the World,' which startled everyone, and then there was silence as the opening ceremonies were performed. All branches were represented: Hereford, Kidderminster, Redditch, Stourbridge, and Worcester, making the bazaar a great success. The sisters were wearing international costumes, and this brought the countries of Holland, Japan, England, Scotland, and Wales nearer to mind. Each table was dressed according to the countries represented, with homebaked bread and crafts in view. The bazaar was bright with color, and the handicrafts were judged by a local dental surgeon, Mrs. Phillips-Broadhurst. Both Sister Dunyon and Mrs. Phillips-Broadhurst were presented with a souffle dish by the two youngest members of the district Relief Society." Kidderminster Branch Quilt Wins Prize at Worcester District Bazaar Left to right: Edna Allen; Doreen Thomas; Sally and Patricia Jones; Hazel Stevens; Ercell Fullmer, President, Kidderminster Branch Relief Society; Sylvia Layton and baby daughter; Gail Layton; Martha Bradley, (next to the quilt); Doreen Ellis and Caroline Ellis. Sister Dunyon, in commending the sisters of the Kidderminster Branch for their beautiful "stitchery" on the quilt, reports on the making of the quilt and the prize it won at the Worcester District Bazaar: "I feel that this is quite an achievement since we introduced quilting just a year ago and the women at that time had not quilted before. This branch was a dependent group until last summer. Kidderminster Branch with their wonderful quilt, won the prize, which was a cotton-reel and needleholder." Orange County Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Music for Last Stake Conference, March 14, 1965 Front row, seated, left to right: Kathern Marks, Education Counselor; Mary Grasteit, President; Lillie Garrett, Work Counselor; Fanny S. Kienitz, member, General Board of Relief Society; Wanda Willett, Secretary-Treasurer. Second row, at the right: Jane Gudmundsen, organist, and Marybeth Done, chorister. Sister Grasteit reports: "The Orange County Stake Singing Mothers made their final appearance when they sang for the afternoon session of stake conference, March 14, 1965. They were in top voice and sang beautifully a special arrangement of 'O My Father' and 'Come, Ye Blessed.' "This was an eventful day—one filled with both excitement and sadness, as our beloved Orange County Stake was divided, and the name was dropped entirely. We now have two new stakes—Anaheim Stake and Fullerton Stake. Lillie Garrett was sustained as president of Fullerton Stake Relief Society, and Glenna Woolf (not in the picture) was sustained as Relief Society president in Anaheim Stake." 532 sen ee —_ 2, 9A ve: pe eM ts-- ' PO S52 ge pee €: Breer Santa Ana Stake (California) Presents Relief Society Anniversary Program March 17, 18, 1965 Front row, seated, left to right: Carolyn Asplund, representing Bathsheba Smith; Patricia Christiansen, author of the script and director, representing Clarissa Williams; Roslyn Taylor, as Emma Hale Smith; Lisa Taylor, as a Smith child. Back row, standing, left to right: Alna Phillips, as Belle S. Spafford; Leda Law, narrator; Nancy Ashcroft, as Emmeline B. Wells; LaPreal Anderson, as Amy Brown Lyman; Karen Lane, as Zina D. H. Young; Julie Sage, as Eliza R. Snow; Mildred Krumperman, as Louise Y. Robison; J. Frank Coltrin, representing the Prophet Joseph Smith. Marjorie S. Patterson, President, Santa Ana Stake Relief Society, reports: "Performed as a 'theater-in-the-round,' over 250 women in the Costa Mesa, Newport Beach, Santa Ana, and Santa Ana Second Wards viewed two performances of the play 'God Is Ever Beside Me,' to commemorate the 123rd birthday of the founding of Relief Society. Originated by Costa Mesa and Newport Beach Wards, the program utilized the dramatic and musical talents of thirty-two people. A Singing Mothers chorus, directed by Mildred Gunkler, offered two musical selections: 'God Is Ever Beside Me' and 'A New Day Dawned.' Soloists were Christine Stolins (auto-harp); Marilyn Johnson (violinist); Marjory Chapman (organist); Arlene Root (pianist). "The furnishings and many of the costumes, authentic to the period they depicted, were supplied by Lucille Lundwall, Costa Mesa Ward Relief Society President; and by Sister Patterson. A brunch was served by the food committee, headed by Velva McCaughan. A note of enthusiasm and joy prevailed throughout the program, as all gave their best in time and talents." 534 THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants ti Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 65—God's Power in the World (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 88:1-14) For First Meeting, October 1965 Objective: To appreciate God's attributes of mercy and justice in the functioning of the "light of Christ' and the Holy Ghost. INTRODUCTION Leaf" by the Prophet. He exAfter the Prophet Joseph Smith Plains that it is "the Lord's meshad visited Jackson County, Mis- = £ peace to us." Here are the souri, in the spring of 1832, a + Tophet's words: number of problems arose among I send you the "olive leaf" which we the saints in that area. In the have plucked from the Tree of Parlesson on the "one mighty and strong" (Lesson 63, Relief Society indulge in feelings toward us, which Magazine, July 1964), we learned are not according to the requirements of a problem in connection with of the new covenant, yet, we have the Edward Partridge, the Bishop in satisfaction of knowing that the Lord.: approves of us, and has accepted us, Zion. Because of the failure of the and established His navve in "Fails authorities and saints in Missouri for the salvation of the nations; for to carry out the plans for their the Lord will have a place whence His temporal welfare under the law of word will go forth, in these last days, ' e Prophet became in purity; for if Zion will not purify consecration, the Pr P herself, so as to be approved of in all Concerned. On January 14, 1833, things, in His sight, He will seek anhe wrote a letter to W. W. P helps, other people; for His work will go on editor of the F vening and Mornuntil Israel is gathered, and they who ing Star, in which he enclosed the will not hear His voice, must expect; to feel His wrath. Let me say unto revelation dated December 27, a ccik to romp yoRNtigeet al 1832, known as Section 88 in the also all the inhabitants of Zion, lest Doctrine and Covenants, This the Lord's anger be kindled to fiercerevelation is named the "Olive ness (DHC 1:316). 535 JULY 1965 Section 88 gives doctrines and great principles of salvation that are outstanding in their scope and sublimity of thought. In the opening verses of the revelation, several ideas are given which should be known to all. The Lord says that: angels rejoice over the brethren for their prayers have come up to the Lord of Sabaoth and are recorded in the book of the sanctified in the celestial world. (D&C 88:1-2.) Contrary to some ideas, the word "Sabaoth" does not mean Sabbath, but hosts; consequently, the Lord is the master of many. President Joseph Fielding Smith reminded those attending a general conference of the Church that to have one's name on the membership records does not save one in the eternal world. Our names must be found in the records maintained in the heavens as a result of our having kept the com- 'mandments. (Conference Report, September 1950, page 10.) The good deeds that we do here in placing the kingdom of God first will redound to our everlasting benefit. | THE COMFORTERS When Jesus was in mortality, he taught his disciples that there were two Comforters. (John 14: 16-26.) In Section 88 the Lord speaks of only one Comforter, but since the expression 'another Comforter" is used in verse 3, it is well for us to recall the discussion of the Savior with his ancient disciples. In John, 14th chapter, he tells his hearers that by keeping the commandments they show their love of the Father and that they will be blessed in having the Comforter to be with 536 them. The world does not receive this blessing because they have not accepted him, but the disciples may have the influence of the Holy Ghost through their obedience. Further on, the Lord points out that the Comforter referred to is the Holy Ghost. This Spirit will teach the convert and bring all things necessary to his remembrance. (John 14:16-17, 26.) During the discourse on the Comforter as the Holy Ghost, Jesus spoke of a second Comforter that would abide with the disciples: He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him. Jesus answered and said unto him, If a man love me, he will keep my words: and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him, and make our abode with him. (John 14: 21, 23). In commenting upon this subject Joseph Smith said that after a person has become a member of the Church and has received the first Comforter or the Holy Ghost, if he will continue to humble himself in living every word of God and after the trial of his faith, the Lord Jesus Christ will then visit him and make his abode with him from time to time. The Prophet also said that this blessing was received by the ancient. Saints when they had the heavens opened to them in vision and had communication with God. (DHC III: 380-381.) In Section 88, the Comforter known as the Holy Ghost is spoken of as "the Holy Spirit of promise" (Verse 3). In the next verse, we learn that this Comforter "'is the promise... Of eternal life, even the glory of the celestial kingdom" (Verse 4). Eternal life as used here is the same as the attainment of godhood, or exaltation, in the celestial kingdom, or to become a member of the Church of the Firstborn after the resurrection. (Ibid., verse 5; 76: 54-60.) THE LIGHT OF CHRIST The members of the Church were promised the wonderful blessing of enjoying the gift of the Holy Ghost to give them guidance to eternal life. (D&C 88:3-5.) Having addressed this comforting message to those who had made covenant with him in baptism, the Lord instructs us concerning his power and the means by which God's children throughout the world receive his blessings. We are informed that there is a light which proceeds 'forth from the presence of God to fill the immensity of space" (Jbid., verse 12). This Spirit, influence, and force is felt by all men, and it is throughout all parts of man's environment. Although the scripture states that it comes from the presence of God, this Spirit is the light of Christ. Jesus, in the pre-earth life, was creator of this earth, and he is man's Atoner. For these and other reasons, one may say that although this "light"? Emanates from God, it comes also from those who have attained all power in the exaltation. Four distinct functions performed by the light of Christ are mentioned. These are: (1) creative power; (2) life-giving force; (3) governing or sustaining force; and (4) enlightening or inspiring power. LESSON DEPARTMENT CREATIVE AND LIFE-SUSTAINING POWERS In the following verses we learn that the "light of Christ" is the power by which the sun, moon, stars, and "even the earth upon which you stand" were created. (Ibid., verses 6-10). And the light which shineth, which giveth you light, is through him who enlighteneth your eyes which is the same light that quickeneth your understandings; Which light proceedeth forth from the presence of God to fill the immensity of space— The light which is in all things, which giveth life to all things, which is the law by which all things are governed (Ibid.. Verses 11-13). Here is stated the power of God manifest in all creation—in all things. Men have looked into the heavens and have marvelled at the greatness of the universe and the orderliness of these creations. Many thoughtful men have recognized in God's creations the evidence to support the belief that there exists a power greater than themselves. After Korihor, the anti-Christ, had asked Alma for a sign to support his belief in God, the prophet reminded him that he had seen many evidences of God's existence. In addition to the testimony of the prophets, Alma said:... The scriptures are laid before thee, yea, and all things denote there is a God; yea, even the earth, and all things that are upon the face of it, yea, and its motion, yea, and also all the planets which move in their regular form do witness that there is a Supreme Creator (Alma 30:44). When one considers the marvels of nature, there is found convincing testimony to support belief in God. 537 important In terms of its Persona] ng enlightenment, inSpiration, and fuldance. Which lig Proceedeth forth from the Presence of God ill the imThese truths are not Only for Prophet Mormon expressed this For behold, the Spirit of Christ is Biven to every man, that he May know 800d from evil. | And now, my brethren, Seeing that ye know the light by which ye may judge, Which light Is the light of e The Lord has not left us to 8rope in darkness, but has 8iven to eve man that js born With understanding the POWer to discern e and evil, truth and falsehood igently and he shall be found and his treasures will be opened unto you. REVELATION— THE BOOK OF MORMON In discoursing on his desires to preach the gospel to all people, Alma taught the doctrine that men of all nations may receive God's light. For behold, the Lord doth grant unto all nations, of their own nation and tongue, to teach his word, yea, in wisdom, all that he seeth fit that they should have; therefore we see that the Lord doth counsel in wisdom, according to that which is just and true (Alma 29:8). One way in which the Lord has given his "word" to all people is through the inspiration received by the "light of Christ.'"' We can see in this principle the important fact, again, that the Father gives to all of his children sufficient to guide and direct them regardless of race or place on the earth. To each is given according to his needs as he can assimilate truth for his advancement in the earth life. The final judgment will be made on the great principle of the light and knowledge possessed by the individual. (D&C 76:110- 111.) In reference to this principle, Joseph Smith taught:... He holds the reins of judgment in His hands; He is a wise Lawgiver, and will judge all men, not according to the narrow, contracted notions of men, but, "according to the deeds done in the body whether they be good or evil," or whether these deeds were done in England, America, Spain, Turkey, or India. He will judge them, "not according to what they have not, but according to what they have," those who have lived without law, will be judged without law, and those who LESSON DEPARTMENT have law, will be judged by that law. We need not doubt the wisdom and intelligence of the Great Jehovah; He will award judgment: or mercy to all nations according to their several deserts, their means of obtaining intelligence, the laws by which they are governed, the facilities afforded them of obtaining correct information, and His inscrutable designs in relation to the human family, and when the designs of God shall be made manifest, and the curtain of futurity be withdrawn, we shall all of us eventually have to confess that the Judge of all the earth has done right (DHC IV: 595-596). GOD KNOWS AND RULES One may think of the "light of Christ" as a great communication system. An important lesson to be learned by all men, and especially Latter-day Saints who believe that God does know the thoughts of men and that he rules among the nations, is this expression from Elder B. H. Roberts:. He knows, not only "what's done," but also '"'what's resisted;" that He knows of the struggle for the attainment of virtue—the hungering and the thirsting after righteousness; that He knows the strength of the temptation, and the weakness of the tempted; that He knows the heart and He will judge, not after the sight of the eyes, neither reprove after the hearing of the ears, but with righteousness shall He judge, and reprove with equity [Isa. 11:3, 4] Judging, "not according to the appearance, but judge righteous judgment." [John 7:24.] Men can be assured of a correct registration and truthful report of their deeds, and a judgment upon them neither partial nor prejudiced; which, while it may cause the wicked to tremble, to men conscious of the uprightness of their intentions, and of honest effort in right directions, as God gives them vision to see the right—what encouragement to earnest striving this conception of living in the very presence of God must bring! (The Seventy's Course in Theology, Fifth Year, 1912, page 13). 539 JULY 1965 GOD'S OMNIPRESENCE In the great discourse on Mars' Hill in Athens, Paul spoke to the principle that all men live, and move, and have their being in God. (Acts 17:28.) The erroneous concept that God is everywhere and therefore he is a spirit only is held in the apostate Christian world. The teaching of God's omnipresence is true, but that he is not personal is declared false by the Lord in the revelations received in our dispensation. Men have mistaken a manifestation of God, the "light of Christ," as being God himself. God is everywhere present by his Spirit, the "light of Christ," but God and the Christ are personal beings of flesh and bone and individually present in only one place at a time. (D&C 130:22.) THE HOLY GHOST AND THE LIGHT OF CHRIST There is a difference between the "light of Christ'? And the Holy Ghost. Sometimes in scripture the terms denoting one or the other are used interchangeably, but the distinction is evident in each specific case by the use of the term in its context. The "light of Christ?' is given to all men, regardless of race or color. (John 1:9.) On the other hand, the Holy Ghost is received by those who are obedient. (Acts 5: 32.) The latter is a special gift received by the laying on of hands. (Acts 8:14-17; D&C 33:15.) Also, there is a power from the Holy Ghost which is "temporary": that is, if the person having been led to the truth of the gospel by the "light of Christ'? Receives a testimony by the power of the Holy Ghost (Moroni 10:4-5), and then he does not accept baptism and 540 the laying on of hands by authority, the testimony is lost to him. The case of Cornelius in the New Testament is a case where the power was known and baptism accepted. (Acts 10). The Prophet Joseph Smith in commenting upon this case said that if Cornelius had not accepted the gospel the Holy Ghost would not have remained with him. (DHC 4:555.) President J oseph F. Smith said the following about the difference between the "light of Christ" and the Holy Ghost: The question is often asked, Is there any difference between the Spirit of the Lord and the Holy Ghost? The terms are frequently used synonymously. We often say the Spirit of God when we mean the Holy Ghost; we likewise say the Holy Ghost when we mean the Spirit of God. The Holy Ghost Is _ 4 personage in the Godhead, and is not that which lighteth every man that that strives with the children of men, and will continue to strive with them, until it brings them to a knowledge of the truth and the Possession of the greater light and testimony of the Holy Ghost. If, however, he receive that greater light, and then sin against it, the Spirit of God will cease to strive Holy Ghost will wholly depart from him (Gospel Doctrine, 1956 ed., pp. 67-68). QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION: 1. Why is Section 88 known as the "Olive Leaf"? Discuss. 2. Does membership in the Church Save one in the celestial] kingdom? 3. What is meant by the "light of Christ''? 4. Discuss: The functioning of the "light of Christ" in man's life is an example of God's mercy and justice. 5. Reconcile the truths that God is a personal being and God's attribute of omnipresence. 6. Discuss: The Holy Ghost and Spirit of God are different. Ee l VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Message 65 — "And | Give Unto You a Commandment That You Shall Teach One Another the Doctrine of the Kingdom" (D&C 88:77). For First Meeting, October 1965 Objective: To emphasize the fact that we have a solemn responsibility to ® The divine instruction to teach one another lies at the foundation of The Church of Jesus Christ. When Jesus was upon the earth, he spent his life in teaching others. After they had been taught, he instructed his followers to go forth and teach one another. Yet, after the Savior's crucifixion, his disciples apparently forgot the instructions he had given them and some of them returned to their former occupation as fishermen. Following his resurrection, to reemphasize their teaching responsibilities, the Savior called his disciples around him and reinstructed them. In one of the dramatic events recorded in the scriptures, Jesus asked Peter if he loved him, and when Peter responded in the affirmative, Jesus told him three times to feed his lambs and sheep. (See John 21:15-17.) Then, before departing from his disciples, the Savior gave them his final inteach the gospel of Jesus Christ. Struction which was to go forth and teach all nations, "Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world" (Matt. 28:20). Not only must we teach one another the "doctrine of the kingdom" through the Church organizations but, also, we have a sacred obligation to teach each other in the home. We must make sure that our children have an understanding of the _ gospel truths. On this subject the Lord has been very specific, telling us as parents that if we fail to teach our children in the home "the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents" (D&C 68:25). Moreover, we must teach our children 541 JULY 1965 "to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord" (D&C 68:28). Among the basic concepts of the gospel are the divine truths, "The glory of God is intelligence" (D&C 93:36). And, "It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance" (D&C 131:6). The Church teaches us that not only are knowledge, intelligence, and religious training basic to happiness and success in this life, but, also, they are necessary to gaining the highest exaltation in the world to come. Without doubt the best way to gain knowledge and make it part of our lives is to study, learn and apply, and then teach this knowIledge to someone else. The apostle Paul said, 'Thou therefore which teachest another, teachest thou not thyself?' (Rom. 2:21). President Brigham Young emphasized the same basic truth when he said: A man who wishes to receive light and knowledge, to increase in the faith of the Holy Gospel, and to grow in the knowledge of the truth as it is in Jesus Christ, will find that when he imparts knowledge to others he will also grow and increase... Get knowledge and understanding by freely imparting it to others (Journal of Discourses 2: 267). The basic purpose of all religious teaching is to gain a better knowledge of God's commandments so that we can put these truths into practice in our lives and thereby gain the blessings that come from living the gospel. Knowledge in and of itself is valueless unless it leads to constructive and worthwhile action. One has not really taught a gospel truth unless the learner's life through action has been improved. Milton expressed this thought beautifully when he said, "The end of all learning is to know God, and out of that knowledge to love and imitate him." Suggested cross references for mothers in the home to the Family Home Evening Manual: Lesson 11 - "Our Heavenly Father Made a Plan For Us," page 80; Lesson 24 - "Jesus Taught Us the Word of God," page 193; Lesson 42-''We Should Learn the Principles of Revelation," page 346. A Way of Peace Mabel Jones Gabbott Let peace be in my home, O Lord, | pray, In children's laughter, rippling clear and free, In polished wood and muted tapestry, In scent of lilac on an April day; Within my home let there be found a way Of loving, gladly shared; of empathy For one another's dreams; and let there be A gentleness in what we do and Say. And then across our threshold, past these walls, Like fragrance from a hyacinth in spring, A vibrant tone of peace will radiate, And like the rain-fresh apple bloom that falls Scattering beauty, our way of life will bring A leavening of love beyond our gate. 542 WORK MEETING Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 9—Vocational Goals and Marriage (A Course to Be Studied at Work Meeting, January Through September 1965) Objective: For September 1965 To point out that a wise mother may guide youth toward satisfying vocations and a happy marriage. INTRODUCTION Few individuals perhaps achieve their full potential while in this life, but the cultivation of one's potential, as a human being, may be spoken of as an over-all life objective. This means that the significent goal for any child is the develipment of his inherent capacity, so that he may know satisfaction and fulfillment in this life and be prepared for a greater joy in the eternity to come. This cultivation-effort will embrace areas of education, of vocation, of voluntary service to others, of spiritual understanding, and of marriage. The mother may exert a substantial influence in each of these areas. This lesson will discuss two important factors in achieving one's potential—that of selecting a vocation OF EDUCATION Education is basic to a full appreciation of life and may be an important factor in the selection of a satisfying vocation (employment). We well know, however, that education is not attained through academic training alone. We are aware of the importance of experience and of the influence of personal association outside the home and with family members within the home. We also know that if we are to appreciate the various aspects of life we need some knowledge of "history, and of countries, and of kingdoms, of laws of God and man (D&C 93:53). This knowledge will give us an appreciation for the fine arts, for world cultures, as well as some technical and scientific knowledge which are of such imporand that of selecting a marriage tance in today's. Challenging companion. World. 543 nn JULY 1965 How may a mother help her children appreciate the privilege of going to school and the blessings of an academic education? VOCATIONAL GOALS Vocational counselors impress upon us the need to consider individual talents and interests realistically, as we choose vocational goals. If one is to spend perhaps years at a specific type of employment, that employment should be one which will give some personal satisfaction and fulfillment. It should be one for which a person is adapted. (See lesson 6, under headings "Each Individual is Precious" and ''Discovering the Inherent Ability.'') How may a mother cooperate with teachers in discovering the special interests and aptitudes of her children? (Suggestion: Consult with teachers about the matter. Be aware of classroom projects which involve individual initiative and encourage children in line with these projects. ) Frequently, hobbies enjoyed in childhood reveal inherent abilities which later, may develop into lifetime vocations. Fathers and mothers may give special guidance to sons and daughters by helping them see the training which various employments involve, and, to some extent, what the rewards may be. What are some of the specific goals of employment which a mother may help her children to see and desire? (Suggestion: the satisfaction of being useful to society; the joy of accomplishment; the satisfaction of financial remuneration.) 544 WORDS OF CAUTION Sometimes a mother may speak disparagingly of certain occupations which are not in line with the "family tradition.""' How may this influence children? Sometimes mothers' express such high regard for the professions that children may feel that they are "letting the family down" unless they become doctors, lawyers, professors, business executives, etc. They may feel that unless they become outstanding in a professional way they will not fulfill their mother's expectations. What may this do to a son whose potential lies in the area of manual skills? How may a mother help her children to see that we need various professions and varied skills; that if all sons were surgeons or lawyers, there would be no one to build houses, to install the plumbing, to manufacture cars for transportation. How may a mother help her daughters to feel that the roles of wife and of mother are of prime importance? That the goals to be achieved are challenging and also rewarding? Will a mother's positive statements made occasionally be sufficient, or will an everyday attitude be more effective? CHOOSING A MARRIAGE "Choosing a marriage' may imply two areas of choice. First, that there is a choice of the marriage partner and, second, that there is choice as to the type of married life that will result. In many cultures of the past, and even in some of the present day, the individuals most concerned play little or no part in the matter of choosing the marriage partner. This discussion applies to those situations only, in which the candidates for marriage are personally involved in the matter of choosing the marriage partner (companion). "How do I choose a mate?" Should your son or daughter ask you this question, how would you reply? A counselor for youth, Dr. Lowell Bennion, gives this answer: "Choose in the light of the life you wish to achieve." With this answer in mind, we may say that the answers to both of the following questions are dependent upon the kind of life one wishes to achieve. "'What may I expect from marriage?" and '"'How do I choose a mate?'' Do you believe that most young people today have clearly defined marriage goals? If so, how do you think they would be listed, in order of importance? Why do you think about this as you do? THE PREPARED PARTNER We may hear this statement, "A person gets out of marriage just what he puts into it." Achieving happiness' through marriage, really is not this simple. A marriage involves more than one person. Although one marriage partner may be well prepared to contribute personal qualities which make for a "good" marriage, if the other partner is immature and ill prepared to contribute similar qualities, this marriage may have a poor chance of achieving happiness. A mother shares with the faLESSON DEPARTMENT ther the responsibility to help their children prepare for marriage; to have worthwhile, clearly defined goals in mind, and to choose the marriage partner as wisely as possible. Mothers should help their children see that "Just because two people think they are in love does not mean that they are insured a happy marriage forevermore. In addition to a strong feeling of love, they also need knowledge, understanding, and wisdom to have a successful marriage in the modern age" (Rex A. Skidmore). HOW AND WHEN How and when shall parents guide children toward wise marriage choices? We are reminded that influencing youth toward happy married life is a gradual, lifelong process; that advice on marriage should be given so wisely and gradually that children will desire, formulate, and move toward worthwhile marriage goals, naturally, while at the same time not being denied their free agency. It is suggested that guidance be given subtly; that a sense of humor may be an invaluable ally in "nutting over" ideas. A mother who is earnest, yet obviously in good humor, may have a better chance of impressing her child with constructive counsel, than if she is obviously agitated and apprehensive. Sometimes, the unexpected comment may be more effective than the usual, expected statement. Illustration. A father who was somewhat concerned about his son staying out too late, said: 545 Pon what Per- ' SOnali ar important to Marriage, you." ernity of the MarSon: « ell, [ fuess character rlage Covenant, €NCompasses far would be first I think that's about the more than mere "motional and most important 'don't suppose we'g Physica] attraction = Dappy * «didn't bo ave that; Integrity + t Dad is ] Iki Per "Pps the most Important ate ways tallking Premarriage Counsel tha Parents Mother: «p Put characte; first, Can give their Children Is to rear also. And | Suppose yoy mean honesthem In an xemplar home. Ty and fairness, ability to distinguish Here, Children See firsthand how a a rong and to choose the a happy Marriage Works, Here Son: « wouldn't want her to be they become Part of family tradiJust wrapped UP in herself. Like som tions which embrace sound, morBirls see 10 be. I hope [ won't be al values: they learn the Teason like that, ¢ the for tithe aying, and acquire the a meee abit of Paying it; they learn the i of d upon the degree Of emotij nal aturity you have 546 ar: Yes, Son, you May tak Ospe] Principles shoe but don't be in before eleven eternal family: Son: ( Who j definitely Surprised) and "Why not?" Preparation of gen Father "T think Ill study in your j]: room, and J wouldn't want to be dis the love of Parents turbed earlier than that. Members or each o The son was home very short] now the reason a alter eleven Was this a subt] temple Marriage Way of Suggesting that eleven O'clock w S an 4ppropriate time for this Son to be jn? Air and inner questioning, IMprove the line 09 comMunicatio —— able) x 1 SO essentia] IN parent and child lati OF PRIME IMPORTANCE r Marriage?" th questions mj ht Preface a profit able dialogue between mother Of prime Importance mM the an son. It m ght Proceed some Matter of Marriage Counseling of wy at in this youth jg the Idea that Parenta] Counsel shal] begin Mother: T shall 4nsWer your ques arly and contions, son. By asking some questions tinue Consistently It Should take of you. What wou] You expect to Place before the children become get nm marriage?" hich at th:: on 4pPiness, w Ich at the Pres involved "motionally: ent moment, s ©Ms merely Setting the In Counseling children On martight gir] » rlage, th basic + achings to be Mother: « Used are those of th love and the } a based On the et PROF ITABLE DIALOGUE Shoy W unselfish both ave observed, » Perhaps, have ass; achieved. Each one must be willing to share and to compromise." Son: 'Of course I'd like her to be good looking, neat, and all that." Mother: "Good." Son: "But she does need to be interesting—have an inquiring mind, so we could communicate, talk things over, get the same point of view on things." Mother: "At least on most issues. How about her religious beliefs?" Son: "I think I could settle for a difference of opinion here and there, but I think I wouldn't be completely happy, being reared in this home, unless we had the same basic religious faith." Mother: (ignoring the last statement) "Which of course for you means." Son: "A temple marriage. You knew I'd say that. But really, Mother, I'd want a temple marriage, and I'd want children, too." Mother: "So much for choosing the girl. Now, what general satisfactions would you expect to get from marriage?". Son: (Thinking a moment) "Happy home life, which would include the Church, a satisfying job, some status in the community—I guess that's it." Mother: "T'll give you an A on that question. Wife and children — the Church—a vocation—the community." Son: "The job is mighty important." Mother: "Of course it is, very important—vitally important. But employments may change—the family is forever." Should this mother feel reasonably secure in her son's ability to choose a marriage partner wisely? What might a mother do to help a teenage son who is contemplating marriage see that he is not ready to assume the financial responsibility of marriage (where she feels sure that he is not)? Would telling him that many teenage marriages do not last because the partners are not mature LESSON DEPARTMENT enough to handle the responsibilities of a family, be very effective at this stage of his romance? What might a mother reply to a son or daughter who says: "It's my life—my concern whom I marry." (Suggestion: Whom the children marry is the concern of their parents, for as future grandparents they are definitely concerned as to who shall parent their grandchildren. ) Reconstruct the above dialogue using a daughter instead of a son. What values will be imvortant to her? Such a conversation, in its entirety, might never take place in your home; however, portions of a similar one might. Would it provide an opportunity for you to appraise the influence of gospel teaching in your home? Would you find in it opportunity to reemphasize certain important values, or give additional counsel? What would this be? NEEDED TODAY Perhaps there was never a time when youth was more in need of wise counseling and of a firm foundation of right and essential values than at the present time. A permissive morality (or lack of morality) is exerting great pressures upon today's youth. They need the assistance of wise parents to help them meet these pressures. They need the fortification of stable homes, they need good parent-son and_ parentdaughter relationships so _ that each may speak freely and honestly about the problems of courtship and marriage, of chastity versus the so-called "new moral- 547 of Morality as Tevealed in the Old Testament, the FOR DISCUSSION Questions as they appear in the lesSon, plus the following: may a mother help youth _ Love Is Eva Willes Wangsgaard Suidance of children is its most important function, iv) = 4 ligation to be h abiding citizens, and they should teach i I they also Share in Ship responsibility. E. Are there other items you would like to add to this? FOR HOME DOING young children. Older children in the home) DisCuss, i riage Partners of your children, expressing appreciation for them. WORK MEETING Molding A Happy Life Winnifred C. Jardine Using One's Resources to Find Happiness (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) For Second Meeting, October 1965 Objective: To appraise ways a homemaker can use those things she already possesses to further the happiness of her family and herself. @ Happiness grows at our firesides, and is not to be picked in stranger's gardens," wrote Douglas Jerrold. No matter how large or small our home, nor how great or little our circumstances, the happiness of our family must, be found in what we have and what we are. We may see our neighbor driving a beautiful new car, or we may visit in the elegant home of a friend, and unless we have learned this lesson well — that happiness for us must be found within our own circumstances — a stab of jealousy may prick our souls and let happiness slowly leak away. In a college town some years ago was a group of graduate students, many of them married and with small families. All of them were living under the: most stringent of circumstances, doing janitorial work for their housing, teaching part time for small salaries, making over clothing for family wear, using every spare minute for studying, and spending an occasional day or evening doing the simplest things for recreation and entertainment. These men have since become professors, research chemists, vice-presidents and directors of companies, and yet all speak lovingly of those days when material things were so scarce. All agree that they were among the happiest days of their lives. Probably, these happy times were possible because of ingenious minds and _ creative hands. No matter what our economic conditions, happiness still grows from these resourceful activities —building a fire pit in the backyard, upholstering a chair, painting the garage, framing pictures, building cupboards, dyeing rugs, refinishing furniture, hanging wallpaper, adding a greenhouse, growing roses from slips and flowers from seed and storing geraniums through the winter. Even in well-to-do homes such practices bring added happiness. Limited means do not necessarily mean limited enjoyment of cultural and beautiful things. Libraries not only provide the wealth of books, but many of 549 JULY 1965 them now make available fine recordings and lovely art prints to check out and enjoy at home. Television and radio offer programs of symphony and opera, ballet and drama. Large cities are forging ahead in organizing their own choirs and symphonic groups, little theaters and art societies, and welcome volunteer workers.. Free summer concerts are frequently available to those who will avail themselves of the opportunity to hear them. Study groups of good literature are in action everywhere. Night classes in a myriad of subjects are offered by high schools and colleges. Opportunities and advantages for our children and ourselves can be worked out on an exchange-of-talents basis. You give my son piano lessons, and I will give your daughter cooking lessons; art in exchange for sewing lessons, speech in exchange for dancing lessons or baby sitting. Visits to museums and galleries, zoos and parks, or visits to people with interesting hobbies bring much pleasure and stimulation. A family's ingenuity can override any limitation of resources if it has the will and the desire. And what happy times result! One of the great delights any family can enjoy is the pleasure of having guests in the home. Families might be invited in to join family night activities. Outof-town visitors staying in the home can enrich family life considerably. Non-Latter-day Saint neighbors might be in a Latterday Saint home for the first time 550 when invited to your home. Children learn to be gracious hosts and to enjoy and participate in stimulating conversation. Home conditions and meals need not be elaborate before having people in. If the family plans and serves those things within its means, using ingenuity and doing so graciously and generously, guests will feel the warmth of hospitality and rejoice in being present. One family has made a tradition of serving soup suppers, using an heirloom soup tureen and plates. The soup may be any kind the season most reasonably affords—cream of celery, potato, leek, or split pea. Served along with it are a green salad, hot rolls, and dessert. Although the meal is inexpensive, the occasions are always happy. In his autobiography Dr. John A. Widtsoe, a former member of the Council of the Twelve, writes: My financial debt, from the years of advanced study, was large; the salary small. Since neither my wife nor I would go in further debt, we used makeshifts as part of our furniture. I still remember with distinct relish the manner in which my wife, with superb, queenly indifference to the clean but primitive conditions, fed and entertained the many guests, often of great distinction. Whether. They were Americans, Europeans, or Asiatics, the lady of my house treated them with a welcoming courtesy. We dealt with things of the mind. Through Relief Society, the sisters are taught to be resourceful, to be frugal, to be creative, to be happy with what they have. Happiness floods homes where these things receive first consideration. than space allows here. But the subject that concerns us most in our study of the story is its dramatization of good versus evil in our human environment. Through the story Wolfe (American novelist and short-story writer, 1900- 1938) suggests that in every human being there are capacities for good and for evil. In fact, human nature is characterized by contrast, by paradox. In every earthly personality, and in mortal life as a whole, there are beautiful tendencies and ugly tendencies, tender qualities and harsh qualities, holy aspirations and animal desires. The difference between the good person and the bad person is not that one has only noble desires and the other only evil desires, but that the one, through will-power, cultivates his noble desires and subdues his evil desires, and the other through lack of will-power, wastes his noble potentialities and submits to his animal desires. Surrounding us at all times are opportunities to do good and opportunities to do evil. Triumph in life is a process of selecting the good opportunities and recognizing the evil ones— and this is a matter of inner decision. One has reached a high level of maturity if he can win the battle to control the evil tendencies within himself. Few writers have described more elequently the good-evil dualism of man's nature than has Thomas Wolfe in this work. Note, for example, several sentences, from just beyond the middle of the story (text, page 293), where he speaks of the tragic and insoluble problems caused by the admixture of opposite forces striving for ascendency. LESSON DEPARTMENT Wolfe continues with a vividly expressed description of the continual conflict between man's highest yearnings and the encroachment of his base desires. The "soaring spirit" is compared to "grand music," and the conflict of evil is "sorrowfully and unalterably woven with blind brute hunger." Much of the excellence of the story comes from the fact that this sense of contrast is felt in every aspect of the work—the beautiful love of the husband and wife contrasted with the wife's ugly clandestine affair with the young man, youth contrasted with age, health contrasted with sickness, the spirituality of the man contrasted with the fleshliness of the woman, ornate language contrasted with homely language, etc. Many other works have been written on the complex relationship between evil and good in the universe—and in the human heart—but few have explored the subject as memorably as Wolfe does in this story. Shakespeare's Sonnet #94. One of the strongest brief statements reminding us of our responsibility as leaders to live righteously and avoid evil is Shakespeare's Sonnet #94. SONNET #94 William Shakespeare They that have power to hurt and will do none, That do not do the thing they most do show, Who, moving others, are themselves as stone, Unmoved, cold, and to temptation slow; They rightly do inherit heaven's graces, And husband nature's riches from expense; 553 JULY 1965 They are the lords and owners of their faces, Others but stewards of their excellence. The summer's flower is to the summer sweet, Though to itself it only live and die, But if that flower with base infection meet, The basest weed outbraves his dignity: For sweetest things turn sourest by their deeds; Lilies that fester smell far worse than weeds. First, Shakespeare describes that kind of man who, by force of personality and strength of convictions, stands high above ordinary people—a tower of strength influencing others but himself not swayed by the petty whims and fancies In his might he has power to hurt others but will not. He soars above the common weaknesses and is as stone to the temptations that destroy lesser men. Such a man rightly is to be looked on as having heavenly powers and displaying humanity's best qualities. Such a man is also rightly to be honored and followed. But what if this great leader falls? No one, not even the mightiest, is absolutely beyond temptation. Little people are capable of accomplishing a little good or committing a little evil. Strong people are capable of accomplishing a great good or committing a terrible evil. And the fall of a strong man is awful to behold. If a little person deceives or embezzles or is immoral, this is bad enough; but if a great leader deceives or embezzles or is immoral, calamity engulfs the whole community. For sweetest things turn sourest by their deeds; Lilies that fester smell far worse than weeds. This is the essence of tragedy— a basically good and great man crumbling to ruin, with his world crumbling around him, in consequence of some flaw in his own character to which he succumbs. The Rime of the Ancient Mariner. Probably the greatest of the four selections covered in this lesson is "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner," by Samuel Taylor Coleridge (English poet and critic, 1772-1834). The poem is printed in full with lengthy comments not only on the poem itself but also on Coleridge's life and other works on pp. 304-328 of the text. "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner' is Coleridge's masterpiece, and one of the major poems of world literature. Like many great works, it can be read in different ways and admired by different levels of readers. It can be read as an exciting adventure story about an old sailor and his sort of hoodooed voyage from his home in Europe southward through the Pacific Ocean, and finally back to his home, with a variety of startling and suspense-filled incidents along the way. Or it can be read primarily as an aesthetic experience, with the reader responding to the rich and varied artistry of the work. Or it can be read as a vision of good and evil, the two forces locked in endless conflict, with special attention to the inescapable consequences of an immoral act. And these are only three ways of reading the poem. Considered as a work of art, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner" is unquestionably one of the great and finished poems of the world. (For a discussion of its artistry the reader is referred to pp. 322-323 of the text.) Our primary concern in this lesson, however, is with meaning rather than aesthetics—that is, with the insight the poem gives into the relationship between good and evil in the universe: not a melodramatic presentation of evil as a thing so obvious as to be immediately recognized and shunned, but (in the words of Ernest Bernbaum): - a veiled yet dreadful power, half-repellent, half-fascinating, seizing upon us when least expected, and visiting consequences upon us that are unforeseen. It is a vision of Evil perfectly true to life. But a vision of Evil —not an analysis of it, nor a sermon upon it. To read and fully appreciate a poem such as this, to recognize fully its power and greatness and truth, we need to approach it as Coleridge recommended we should approach any high-quality work of imaginative literature, with that "willing suspension of disbelief which constitutes poetic faith," letting the poem speak for itself, and letting ourselves be caught up in its magic and wonder. Pages 324 to 328 of the text give detailed comments on the seven parts of the poem, telling how a ship sails on a long, mysterious voyage into unfamiliar waters, there to be beaten by storm-blasts and driven into a bitter-cold area where "'ice, mast-high, came floating by, as green as emerald."' Lost in this desolate region, the sailors take heart when an albatross, omen of a safe voyage, joins their ship. And sure enough, there follow nine joyous days of clear sailing in calm water. Then, abruptly, without apparent reason, the Mariner kills the albatross—comLESSON DEPARTMENT mitting sin wantonly, irresponsibly, thoughtlessly, with total lack of regard for the value of life. At first the other sailors accuse the Mariner of having "done a hellish thing" in killing the blessed albatross; but when a good wind continues for several days and all seems well they compliment him for destroying "the bird that brought the fog and mist." Thus, by approving of the crime, they become accomplices to the crime. They, too, are now guilty, and so they must pay the penalty for sin; but they are not as guilty as the Mariner, and so their penalty will not be as heavy. For a brief time the fair breeze continues. Then it stops, and day after day they sitina hot, motionless sea, "as idle as a painted ship upon a painted ocean." Salt water is all around, but there is none to drink, and "slimy things did craw] with legs upon the slimy sea." Driven mad by the agonizing thirst, with parched throats, the sailors curse the Mariner for their misery. Finally there appears a small ship on the horizon. At first the Mariner hails it as a ship of mercy, but then is haunted by its Skeleton-like appearance and its ghastly crew of two—Death and Life-in-Death, who are casting dice to see which wins the Mar. Iner. When Life-in-Death, the most grisly of the two, wins, the other sailors one by one curse the Mariner with their eyes and die. As he full well knows, the Mariner's fate is worse than death. In utter desolation, with the dead men lying all around him, he tries to pray, but cannot, for his heart is still defiant. Thus, amidst the rottenness of dead men on a dead ship in a dead ocean, the Mariner 555 JULY 1965 lives on, suffering the anguish of his crime. But then, in spite of all his misery, he becomes conscious of beauty as he watches some water snakes swimming on the ocean surface, and miraculously at the climactic moment and dramatic center of the poem (in Part IV), he is so moved by their beauty that he exclaims "O happy living things!" as "a spring of love gushed from my heart, and I blessed them unaware' — and then he can pray. The Mariner has now sinned, suffered the inevitable consequences of sin, and enjoyed the first glorious fruits of redemption from sin through repentance. The poem, as a parable of good versus evil, could end here; but it does not, for Coleridge is aware of the complex nature of punishment and redemption, and he goes on to explore these complexities, emphasizing that "'the man hath penance done, and penance more will do." That one can never totally recover from the consequences of sin is the idea Coleridge stresses as the poem ends. Coleridge had unusual insight into the nature of good and evil; but, as Latter-day Saint readers with their greater insight through the restored gospel will see, apparently he did not understand the full power of the redeeming mission of Christ. The Mariner genuinely repents, and yet he still suffers the consequence of the sin once committed. Briefly he hopes to escape this torment and be fully free as he turns to a hermit (a holy man) with the thought, "He'll shrieve my soul, he'll wash away the Albatross's blood." But Coleridge knew, as any wise man knows, that one 556 mortal being has not the authority to save another mortal being from his sins, and so the plea to the hermit is in vain. The gospel teaches that every person will be held responsible for the sins he knowingly commits. The atonement of the Savior, however, makes it possible for him to be saved if he repents and gives obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel. Coleridge partly understood this truth, but not understanding it fully, he left the Mariner largely redeemed through repentance, but still suffering and partly enslaved by past deeds. In this discussion the moral aspects of the poem have been emphasized. Although these are important—and they are very important—to emphasize them alone somewhat distorts the poem. Therefore, the reader is invited to consider also those other aspects that make the poem great: its artistic richness, the magic of its haunting descriptions, the structural unity of its myriad details, and the compelling power of its fascinating narrative. All of these combine to make "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner" one of the truly great poems of the world. Note to Class Leader Probably the most difficult of the four selections covered in this lesson is Wolfe's 'Dark in the Forest, Strange As Time." It is also the least available if class members do not have copies of the text. Therefore, some groups may wish to omit this selection and devote full time to the other selections. On the other hand, some readers will appreciate the challenge of a story as difficult as Wolfe's. The class leader should decide which selections to emphasize as most valuable to her group. The other selections are all readily available in many books as well as in the text. For groups not covering Wolfe's story, probably the best approach will be to spend a few minutes on Blake's 'The Lamb" and "The Tiger" and on Shakespeare's sonnet, then devote most of the time to Coleridge's "Rime of the Ancient Mariner." Thoughts and Questions for Discussion 1. Discuss the' effectiveness' in Blake's poem of the lamb as a symbol LESSON DEPARTMENT for good and the tiger as a symbol for evil. 2. Point out other evidences than those mentioned. In the printed discussion to show that Wolfe's story is filled with contrasts. 3. Discuss the further meaning of Shakespeare's line: "Lilies that fester smell far worse than weeds." 4. Point out lines and stanzas—there are dozens of them—in Coleridge's "Rime of the Ancient Mariner" that you feel are especially vivid and excellent, explaining why they are vivid and excellent. 5. Discuss fully Coleridge's thoughts on the nature of sin and redemption from sin as reflected in "The Ancient Mariner." To what extent is Coleridge's insight limited as compared with the full knowledge of the restored gospel? While Apart Sylvia Lustig Bennion Reason would console With words: "'Love knoweth no distance,"' It is true. And, a never-shoring ocean, Though tides are felt My love has no boundary From you. Yet, you are gone. The miles, no consequence, For just that | cannot hear Your voice, your song, Nor see your comely countenance, | am gripped with loneliness. And, here ail logic seems ill, For the heart, womb of love, Has no will. And it shall not be satisfied With words oversimplified; It Knows well the distance From you. 557 DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS Sections 88, 89, 90 (Eight Lectures) by ROY W. DOXEY Associate Professor of Religion Brigham Young University EDUCATION WEEKS 1965 Price $1.50 Available end of June from BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Extension Publications Provo, Utah 84601 Write for Extension Publications Catalog listing talks given at BYU by General Authorities Incident of the Red Rose Lael W. Hill (Less transient than the red rose, Oh, let your love be!) The red, red rose, dew-heavy, Stood sweet with scent; How carefully you stripped each thorn To offer me Only the perfect blossom! Yet | am not content. The red, red rose has faded Before today was born, Stem bent down and broken, Twisted apart. | would accept together, now, The rose, the thorn. (Oh, let the love you offer Be rooted in your heart!) HAWAIIAN TOURS October, November 1965 WORLD'S FAIR and L. D.$. PAGEANT TOURS 16 day tour July 17—Aug. 7 22 day tour July 24—Aug. 14 Two 29 day tours July 11—Aug. 8 and July 24—Aug. 21 AUTUMN TOURS TO EUROPE August 1965 WORLD'S FAIR NEW ENGLAND and CANADIAN FALL TOUR September 16, 1965 Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 485-2444 — 262-2337 Your kitchen stays cleaner when you COOK ELECTRIC If itS electric, it's better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY Mrs. Mary Ann Brown Clark TH Mrs. Martha Christensen Hansen 106 Provo, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sophia Jensen Potter 93 Mrs. Amelia Jensen Topham Las Vegas, Nevada Parowan, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Cottam Miller Mattinson Boru Mrs. Lauretta Mattinso P St. George, Utah Layton, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Van Schaik 9? Mrs. Clara Ashford Martin Salt Lake City, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah.. Mrs. Catherine McCarrell Dee Salt Lake City, Utah 9] Mrs. Nancy Smith Palmer Safford, Arizona: Mrs. Louise Burt Evans Mrs. Alma C. Forslof Brigham City, Utah Monroe, Washington Mrs. Mary Ann Mitchell Decker Mrs. Beatrice Young Nelson Lee Adams_ Sait Lake City, Utah Richfield, Utah: Mrs. Elisa Rosa Ruegsegger Newhouse Mrs. Lilley Grange Coles South Gate, California Driggs, Idaho;. Buchanan Mrs. Agnes McBride Dummer Mrs. Eltoria Christensen Salt Lake City, Utah | | Fairview, Utah: Mrs. Lula Hancy Erlandson Mrs. Rose Cottingham Bushell Payson, Utah Orem, Utah Moon-Beguiled Ethel Jacobson The sun pours its golden wealth Upon the sea— A sea that yields alone To the witchery Of the moon's silver fingers, Quietly curled, Summoning it from half-way Around the world. 560 ie: tl For the Ka vs rmaad ag il: | Library oa |6lC«C; Bearitudes 2 lee 1 Yi MALTESE TD Ticin Wossyy ed mee by J. Stanley Harrison The author, a convert to the Church from England, provides the reader with insight into his wholesome outlook on life and the world as a whole. This Way But Once deals with man's happiness, response to disappointment, and love of the gospel. $2.95 The Beuiicudes by L. Elmer Peterson A Latter-day Saint interpretation of the ''Beautiful Attitudes'' of the Savior. The author has taught in the LDS Church's seminary and institute system for thirty-five years and shares this experience in this volume. $1.95 Wowsesilgg Viggded Peae by Monroe and Shirley Paxman For family home evenings. Month-by-month parties! Fun holiday suggestions for the whole family! Outlines for special trips! Penned by a husband and wife team winners of the Family of the Year award for 1960. $2.95 e@eeeoeeevee2eeeeeeeeevee ee 8 @@e@eeoeneeeeneee ee eeeeosve@eeeveevee Gentlemen: Enclosed please find check, money order -, | have an account, please f harge - A en. Eo a T Deseret Book ine above oll items: 1 2 3 COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY Name 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD.. OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Residents of Utah, please add 3'1/,% sales tax Residents of California, when ordering through California store, please add 4% sales tax. R. S. JULY '65 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah U&l Sugar gives you get up and go! For the active outdoor family, the natural food energy in picnic treats made: with U & | Sugar... Is vital for healthy, active bodies! Serve energy-high U & | Sugar treats often. Buy Energy High U & I the sugar from our land. 
