[Vol43 | September 1956 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Home | Title: Bulbs for Winter Blossoming | Author: Dorthea N. Newbold]
Plant the bulbs in shallow 588 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1956 Photograph submitted by Dorthea Newbold A SPRINGTIME WINDOW IN WINTER pots with the bulbs half an inch apart and barely cover them with soul. 'They should be left in a cool dark place for eight weeks. Water every five days. 'They may be brought into the light early in January or February. Provide a moist, cold, storage place for tulips, daffodils, and hyacinth bulbs while they are filling the pots with roots. Place the pots in either a well-drained cold frame, or in a shallow trench. Dig the trench twelve inches deep and place a four-inch layer of cinders in the bottom for drainage. Place the containers in and fill in around the pots with peat moss or sharp sand. Add a covering of sharp sand, and cover with leaves or straw. © This mulch makes it easier to get the bulbs out during the winter. Twelve weeks is a safe period to allow for the root-making processes. 'Then bring the pots into the house and place in a temperature of about fifty degrees. Remove any soil which may be clinging to the pale new shoots. Water plants enough to keep the soil moist, and, as the growth increases, more water will be needed. Water should be at room temperature. As soon as the foliage has started to spread, and the stems are well started, move the plants into bright sunlight. If you can keep the room temperature at sixty degrees, you will have much better results with the bulbs you are forcing. Always turn the plants so that they will grow evenly, and not be one-sided from drawing to- BULBS FOR WINTER BLOSSOMING ward the sun. These directions are for all bulbs grown in soil. Tulips may be planted one-half inch apart and with just the tips of the bulbs exposed out of the soil. Water liberally before setting pots in the storage place. Some varieties which will force include: Brilliant Star, Prince of Austria, Price Carnival, General DeWit, Apricot Yellow, Ibis, and White Hawk. All of those listed above are the single early tulips. 'The double early tulips are not recommended for forcing. Others recommended are: Krelage's 'Triumph, Van der Erden, White Sail, Weber, John Gay, William Pitt, Red Pitt, William Copeland, Rose Copeland, Crater, and Princess Beatrix. Daffodils should be planted with the tips slightly above the soil in the pot. Water thoroughly and set in storage. If they are planted in late September or during October, then the first pots can be started into active growth by the middle of January. It takes about four weeks 589 for the plants to flower after being brought out of storage. 'T'ry these daffodils: Carlton, Early Perfection, Golden Harvest, Helios, King Alfred, Magnificence, Rembrandt, Scarlet Elegance. Dutch hyacinths are possibly the best liked of all the potted bulbs. Set a large bulb in a four-inch pot, or five bulbs can be set in an eightinch bulb pan. 'The tips of the bulbs should be out of the soil. Water thoroughly after planting. Store for at least eight weeks. When they are brought into the house, the new tips of growth will be blanched. Keep in indirect sunlight and in a fifty-five degrees Fahrenheit temperature until the leaves turn green. 'Then they can be given direct sunlight. They will flower in a seventy-degree temperature, but the flowers will be much better quality if they are grown in a lower temperature. Forcing varieties which are highly recommended include Bismarck, L'Innocence, and Pink Pearl.