[Vol43 | September 1956 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Healthy You!]
[Healthy, Happy, Lucky You!]
(Healthy,   (Happy,  JLucky    you! 
ippu 
LUCKY  is  the  youth  who  has  learned  that  health,  success,  and  happiness 
come  with  clean  living.    Lucky  is  the  youth  who  has  learned  that  some 
things  should  not  be  touched  or  tampered  with  .  .  .  that  some  things 
should  be  left  alone. 
Lucky  is  the  youth  who  learns  this  lesson  early  in  lite,  from  parents 
and  from  the  teachings  of  the  Church  -  and  who  doesn't  have  to  learn  it 
the  hard  way. 
Page  594

HEALTHY,  HAPPY,  LUCKY  YOU!  595 
Health  and  happiness  and  success  are  what  our  Father  in  heaven  wants 
for  us.  And  that  is  why  he  has  given  us  commandments  to  keep  —  and 
not  for  any  other  reason. 
Health  and  happiness  and  success  are  what  our  parents  want  for  us. 
And  that  is  why  they  give  us  counsel  and  commandments  —  and  not  for 
any  other  reason. 
We  have  one  mind  and  one  memory  —  and  it  deserves  to  be  clear  and 
clean. 
We  have  one  earthly  body  which  must  last  for  a  lifetime.  Our 
Maker  planned  it  that  way.  He  knows  what  is  good  for  us.  He  knows 
what  will  give  us  health  and  happiness  and  success  and  peace  inside  our- 
selves. That  is  why  he  has  told  us  how  to  live;  that  is  why  he  has  told  us 
to  leave  some  things  alone. 
Lucky  you;  you  don't  have  to  learn  everything  the  hard  way.  Lucky 
you;  you  can  learn  early  from  those  who  love  you.  Lucky  you;  you  don't 
have  to  pay  a  painful  price  for  learning  how  to  live  —  you  don't  have  to 
learn  too  late. 
Be  smart.    Be  clean.    Be  virtuous.    Be  healthy.    Be  happy. 
BE  HONEST  WITH  YOURSELF 
PROMISED  BLESSINGS  TO  WORD  OF  WISDOM 
OBSERVERS 
"And  all  saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking  in 
obedience  to  the  commandments,  shall  receive  health  in  their  navel  and 
marrow  to  their  bones; 
And  shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden 
treasures; 
And  shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and  shall  walk  and  not  faint. 
And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a  promise,  that  the  destroying  angel 
shall  pass  by  them,  as  the  children  of  Israel,  and  not  slay  them.  Amen" 
(D.  &  C.  89:18-21).