[Vol43 | September 1956 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Rea]
Ditson She Chocolate Box Dorothy Oakley Rea INCE then we've had a player piano, a new car, and a television set. Still the greatest luxury that came into our lives was the pink box of chocolates... The one with the picture of the laughing Gibson Girl on top. It was Mama's habit of economy that made the night of the chocolate box such a shining memory. It was Saturday might. Mama had put on her good broadcloth coat, her plumed hat, and her inherited fur piece. "You may go to the store with me and carry the shopping bag," she told me. We left the other six children playing cylinder records on an old music box. I can see Mama now, walking down the boardwalk of the mining town in her high-buttoned shoes. The general store, a two-story rock structure in the middle of town, stood with smoke-darkened houses huddled around it like fightened puppies. Whenever Mama entered the store, the miners would pause in their loud laughter and remove their caps. Mama was very pretty. I thought she looked like Pearl White standing there with her plumed hat held high above her slim, straight shoulders. She bought our Saturday night supplies, carefully inquiring into the price of each item. My tongue felt dry when she asked for the regular package of Kickapoo Indian worm lozenges. Mr. Graham put everything in the shopping bag and said the bill was two dollars and fifteen cents. Mama started to pay him, when she saw the box of chocolates on the shelf. It was a big box with a pink bow and gold letters. 'here was a picture of a beautiful girl on the top. Mama just kept looking at it. It seemed as if she were remembering the days before all the children, when Papa could afford to bring home candy and flowers. It seemed as if she wanted to forget for a moment, that Papa's job was long on work and short on pay and that the forty-hour week was far in the future. She kept staring at the box of chocolates. Mr. Graham said, ""That's a right nice box of candy for only a dollar." Mama stood fingering the coins in her small knitted purse. She looked around the store. I knew she was figuring how much flour or calico a dollar would buy. Suddenly, her pretty cheeks were crimson to her hairline as she saw the miners watching her. She laid the money on the counter. "Tl take the candy," she said, with a sidelong glance at my shining face. QUR feet had wings as we carried the groceries up the incline to our house. "Wait until you see what Mama's got," I called as I bounded through the front door. Out of the mesh shopping bag came the shining box. Large-eyed children whispered, "However did you get it, Mama?" Page 601 602 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1956 both loved and regretted spending that dollar. It was likely her one cherished extravagance in the long years of having and rearing children. This I know, no other chocolates were ever so creamy, so sweetly brown, and so long to be remembered. I can't forget the silken luxury I felt every time I looked at the pink box on Mama's sideboard. However drab the house, the town, or the day—the Gibson Girl smiled, the gold letters sparkled, and neighbor children were impressed. The box stayed with us almost as long as Mama did. It moved with us from one small town to another through Papa's years of railroading. It always went with "the careful things," like Mama's heirloom dishes. Photograph submitted It even moved into the big brick by Dorothy Oakley Rea house where Mama spent her last "MOTHER IN HER PLUMED HAT" and most prosperous years. "I wasted a dollar," Mama said The box was never empty. It with the abandon of an heiress used held in turn, paper dolls, valentines, to squandering fortunes. Love letters, and, finally, the sheerLooking back now, I know Mama est wisp of a wedding veil. School Again Lael W. Hill Beyond the heavy doors, the stolid walls, The last of summer lingers lonely-hearted On paths where even now a bright leaf falls, Whence even now the robins have departed. Where once the children's gamin laughter pealed, Where once their dusty feet and freckled faces Starred summer ways like daisies in a field, Approaching autumn threads her frosty laces. Within the stolid walls, the heavy doors, Hands pattern restlessness, whispers run swishing, Rows of small feet fret across worn floors; Each wistful pair of eyes, remembering, wishing, Turns from the leaf-like rustle of a book To give to summertime one last long look. Little Boy Reading a Book Evelyn Dorio S there a more wonderful sight anywhere than a little boy reading a book to himself? Listen to the chuckling sound he makes! It isn't included in the musical keyboard, because no one ever captured it long enough to place it properly. It isn't quite a sharpened flat sound nor yet a flattened sharp sound; it isn't in proper fifths or ninths; yet it is a most natural sound — that reading chuckle! The reading chuckle is different from the shout of football or baseball; different from the "peanut crackling" of the Wild West matinee, or the "roof-raising ha-ha"" of television. No, indeed, the reading chuckle is rather elegant in parts, an educated sound! Close observation reveals that the reading chuckle begins with a mild "H'm, h'm," and then adds up to a slur of "h'mmmmm, h'mmmmm," as a boy keeps chasing words across the page. Then the whole chuckle may disappear except for the background of bubbles that float out of his open mouth. The boy now turns the page and opens his eyes wider the better to devour the words! "'Hey! Heyeyeyey!"" he warns the hero who is scrambling from paragraph to paragraph. The boy adds a piccolo whistle and "Yeeeeeow! Yeeeeowowowow!" This means danger to the hero, and the boy switches on a little red counterpoint beneath his voice. 'He, he! Ho, ho!" he pipes from the top of his head (where little boys always hoard their favorite squeaks!) and then a broad and yellow-colored "Ahahahah!" which blows directly out of his relaxing lips, tells you everything came out all right.