[Vol43 | September 1956 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Fiction | Title: Recipes | Author: Robinson]
[Recipes From the Finnish Mission Hortense B. Robinson]
See  also  "Recipes  From  the  Finnish  Mission/'  page  596.

Something  Artistic 
Frances  C.  Yost 
ROMAINE  had  read  the  entire  Romaine  had  done  lots  of  sew- 
County  Fair  Book  carefully,  ing  and  baking,  and  made  flower 
but    she    thumbed    through  arrangements  for  the  fair.  In  all,  she 
the      Women's      Division      again:  had   taken   seven  blue  ribbons  for 
Needlecraft,  Sewing,  Canning,  Bak-  her  homemaking  accomplishments, 
ing,  Remodeling,  Arts,  Crafts,  Paint-  'This    year    will    be    different." 
ing,   and    Sculpturing.     Why,    the  Romaine  doubled  her  fist  with  de- 
highest  prize   of  all  was   given   in  termination.     'This  year  someone 
the  field  of  sculpturing.    Perhaps  it  else  can  take  the  blue  ribbons  for 
was  for  encouragement.     Romaine  pies,  petticoats,  and  petunias.     Fm 
remembered   that   the    needlecraft,  going   out   for   higher    stakes,    the 
baking,    and    sewing    booths    were  sculpture  prize/' 
overcrowded  with  fine  displays  last  Romaine  knew    if   she   were   to 
year.     Every  housewife  sewed  and  have   a    piece    of    sculpture    lovely 
baked  and  did  handwork,  Romaine  enough  to  enter  in  the  county  fair, 
thought,  but  almost  no  one  seemed  she  must  start  working  on  it  now. 
to  sculpture.  She  had  been  making  figurines  from 
"What  I  could  do  with  a  prize  the   children's   clay   for  years,  and 
like    that!"    Romaine    said    aloud,  she  had  tried  her  hand  at  whittling 
She  fell  to  dreaming.  wood.     But,  to  enter  the  contest, 
She  remembered  her  high  school  she  should  have  something  of  size 
days  when  she  had  carved  a  tiny  with  which  to  work.  Romaine  re- 
horse  and  colt  from  an  ordinary  bar  membered  again  the  horse  and  colt 
of  laundry  soap.  Miss  Rembrant,  she  had  carved  from  a  bar  of  laun- 
the  art  teacher,  had  wanted  her  to  dry  soap.  Good  white  soap  was  fine 
enroll  in  an  art  school  after  gradua-  to  work  with,  but  you  couldn't  buy 
tion,  but  instead,  she  had  married  soap  in  a  big  brick.  Could  she 
Sam  Wuthrich  of  Swiss  decent,  as  make  it? 
soon  as  Romaine  and  her  mother  "That's  what  I'll  do.    I'll  make  a 
could    assemble    a    suitable    trous-  batch  of  soap  this  very  day!"    Sheer 
seau.  perseverance  registered  on  her  face. 
Romaine   had    then    turned    her  There  wasn't  time  this  morning  to
