[Vol43 | September 1956 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Fiction | Title: Social]
——_— SOCIAL SCIENCE LATTER-DAY SAINT FAMILY LIFE No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season. — The Joy of Early Rising Mildred Higgins E are told in the Doctrine and Covenants that we should arise early, that our minds and bodies may be invigorated. I am, by nature, an early riser. To slip quietly out of bed while the rest of the family lies sleeping in the early morning hours, is the privilege of a mother. It is my privilege, and I am eternally grateful for it. I dress hastily and walk through the back door into our yard. The air is so filled with the songs of birds that they seem to be trying to outdo each other in praising their Creator. 'The green leaves are lightened by the far-reaching rays of the sun which is not yet above the horizon. The air at this hour is so fresh that I can scarcely breath deep enough to do it justice. At their very best are the roses — suspended perfectly in the crosscurrents of rising dew, descending sunlight, and the crisp but gentle breath of the morning itself. They, like the honey- THE JOY OF EARLY RISING suckle, send their lovely aroma heavenward in praise of their Creator. It seems as if the earth itself is saying; "This is my most perfect hour — drink of it, for it is a tonic which will carry you through the heat of the noonday with a light step and a joyful heart. Now go into the midst of those who love you and minister to their needs, rejoicing and starting this day night!' Looking upward at the clear blue of heaven, my heart holds a prayer of gratitude and petition that I might not mar the remainder of a day that begins so perfectly. That, instead, I may be granted the wisdom to enhance it somewhere along the way. Much has been spoken and written about the place of the woman in a home —to make her home a haven of rest for her returning husband and children. It seems to me that something may be said about the joyful responsibility that a woman has in the morning — to help her family face the day with high courage and a splendid faith. Many hundreds of years ago King Lemuel had something to. Say about this in his praise of a virtuous woman. One of his statements reads like this: "She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household. (Proverbs 31:15). <_< Si lower of Light Eva Willes Wangsgaard My father walked at chore time Within a flower of light; A lantern's smoky petals Befriended him at night. And when the chores were finished He held the little bloom Till an oil-lamp's golden tulip Shone softly round the room. No garden I remember Could yield such lovely flowers As these that shed their radiance On childhood's evening hours. 639 ELECTRIC W ATER HEATING costs the average family only about a dime a day Buy from Your Dealer or Plumber Be Modern Live Electrically UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built _—o. Obtain your November 4th music— "Teach Me O Lord,"' price 20c per copy. Please order early! Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Accounting Agricultural Economics Agronomy Air Science Animal Husbandry Archaeology Art Bacteriology Bible, Modern Scripture Botany Business Management Chemistry Church History Clothing and Textiles Economics Economics, Home Management Educational Administration Educational Instruction Educational Research, Services Educational Values, Programs Engineering Sciences: Acoustical Civil Chemical Electrical Geological Mechanical English Finance and Banking Food and Nutrition Geography Geology PUBLIC SERVICES DEPARTMENT ( ) Admission application ( ) Housing application Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY prepares you for tomorrow's leadership under outstanding faculty, with finest teaching equipment in many departments: Health Education and Safety History Homemaking Education Horticulture, Landscaping Housing and Design Human Development and Family Relations Industrial Arts and Drawing Intercollegiate Athletics and Intramural Athletics Journalism L. D. S. Church Organization and Administration Library Science Marketing Mathematics Modern and Classical Languages Music Nursing Physical Education for Men Physical Education for Women Physics Political Science Psychology Radio and Television Recreation Scouting Secretarial Training Sociology Speech and Dramatic Arts Theology and Religious Philosophy Zoology and Entomology — CLIP AND MAIL FOR FREE INFORMATION — Please send me free of charge the following: ( ) ROTC information ( ) Scholarship information Information about the following departments: ee errr re rrr ee er rere err er ere errr Page 640 Why The King James Uersion 1. HOME MEMORIES OF PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY Compiled by Llewelyn R. McKay Rich, personal glimpses into the life of President McKay his home in Huntsville, his years of experience as a teacher and guide of youth, his love of people and animals, his day-to-day notes on his World Tour with Hugh J. Cannon... All this and more is contained in this warm, human approach that reveals true character of the highest integrity. $3.75 2. WHERE IS WISDOM? President Stephen L Richards The basic philosophy of President Richards and other leaders of the Church is expressed in this fine collection of excerpts from addresses and speeches given to both religious and business groups. Readers will find this book a '"'treasure chest'? Of material for lesson-giving, talks, and personal reading. $3.50 3. WHY THE KING JAMES VERSION? President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. In his masterful and beautiful style, President Clark gives the views of the most prominent scholars and authorities on various Biblical translations and offers valid reasoning as to why the L. D. S. Church accepts the King James Version of the Bible over the Revised Version. Contents reveal a lifetime of research... Presented in an interesting, easy-to-read manner. $4.75 4. MAN, HIS ORIGIN AND DESTINY President Joseph Fielding Smith The Theory of Evolution and other scientific and philosophical ideas on man's origin and destiny are discussed in light of religious revelations by the Church's foremost theologian. This book is written to bring greater understanding to those who are confused by the modern, scientific approach, and to show that scriptural truths remain constant, regardless of the approach taken. $4.00 "Deseret 44 East South Temple DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temp'e Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) charge to my account for the encircled (numbered) books: ] 2 3 4 Amount enclosed $ 00 00 ccececccseeeececeeeeeeeeeeees: Name ooo nce ee cece cece cece cee ecceeseeeceeeeeesssetessactessateeesnccesseceeeeeceeceseeeees Address 222- e2eceececeeee ee eeeceeeenceeneeeeeesnnecenesceeceecceeeeseereeceeeesnsereneeee City a weeeee ZONE SHOAte.. Oe eeeceeee ee eeeeeeeee ss ee ee Ge Ge eee eee ee eee eee eee canned or fresh eaches gu and I Kk +. "J sugar Zee o together!. Fe 80 tog Fall fruit is ready for eating and for canning and fruit and U and I Sugar just naturally "go together." For canning, and for topping those fresh fall fruits, always buy U and I Sugar. You can't buy a finer, whiter or easier-to-use canning sugar. Get the big 10-, 25-, 50- or 100-lb. Bags for canning time >a Wee a» tn. Ae * * bn F » * _ ' « ee a 7 oy we AN pS thas HE » ae + em, 1 a i... Oe 5) 5 > a. Q eee. Ee ey ime i ae enna tree ers WP eteerentin etme 8 4 Le ie gt RMR we! See Ne Se Apeemipicme veces. Z te j?