[Vol43 | September 1956 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Nibley]
FINNISH MISSION 579 Submitted by Hortense B. Robinson A FINNISH SAUNA (BATH HOUSE) IN WINTER Bath houses are situated on the seashore or on lakes or bays, and are typical of Finland. A hot steam bath followed by a swim in either summer or winter is a favorite recreation. That when teaching the gospel they could not stand up; they were forced to remain seated. The number of converts grew slowly; in November 1890, the combined membership of the Church was thirty-five, including three elders and two priests. President Ezra Taft Benson of the European Mission visited Finland in July 1946 and at Larsmo rededicated the land to the preaching of the gospel. Finland remained a district of the Swedish Mission until it was organized as a separate mission on September 1, 1947, with Henry A. Matis as president. President David O. McKay and party visited the Finnish Mission in June 1952, and held a mission-wide conference at Helsinki. President Matis presided in Finland until December 1954, when he was succeeded by Phileon B. Robinson, who presides at the present time. On March 31, 1956 there were 613 members of the Church in Finland, located in fourteen branches. In December 1954, thirteen Relief Society organizations were reported, with 221 members. Hortense B. Robinson presides over the Finnish Mission Relief Society. Note: 'The cover for this Magazine is a view of Harvest Time in Central Finland.

See also "Recipes From the Finnish Mission," page 596. Something Artistic Frances C. Yost OMAINE had read the entire R County Fair Book carefully, but she thumbed through the Women's Division again: Needlecraft, Sewing, Canning, Baking, Remodeling, Arts, Crafts, Painting, and Sculpturing. Why, the highest prize of all was given in the field of sculpturing. Perhaps it was for encouragement. Romaine remembered that the needlecraft, baking, and sewing booths were overcrowded with fine displays last year. Every housewife sewed and baked and did handwork, Romaine thought, but almost no one seemed to sculpture. "What I could do with a prize like that!" Romaine said aloud. She fell to dreaming. She remembered her high school days when she had carved a tiny horse and colt from an ordinary bar of laundry soap. Miss Rembrant, the art teacher, had wanted her to enroll in an art school after graduation, but instead, she had married Sam Wuthrich of Swiss decent, as soon as Romaine and her mother could assemble a suitable trousseau. Romaine had then turned her artistic talents to homemaking. She looked about the home she had made. Surely she hadn't wasted her talent. Her home showed good taste. The entire house was attractive, though frugally furnished. Why she had refashioned the old cheerless kitchen until it resembled a Currier and Ives print, fragrant and wholesome. Page 580 Romaine had done lots of sewing and baking, and made flower arrangements for the fair. In all, she had taken seven blue ribbons for her homemaking accomplishments. "This year will be different."