[Vol43 | September 1956 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Meeting | Author: Love]
MEETING OBJECTIONS finds a moment to relax she can have her Magazine handy and read something from it. She might enjoy reading just before she retires. If her Magazine is on the night stand next to her bed, it will be easy for her to pick it up and read a short story that will only take five or ten minutes. If she continues this practice, her Magazine will prove valuable to her, and she will want to read it. In the course of her reading she might find an interesting article that some member of her family would enjoy reading, too. She could leave the Magazine open to this particular page, and, when the opportunity presented itself, without any fuss in trying to find the page or even trying to find the Magazine, there it would be for her to give to the interested members of her family. NOTHER objection: We Have an Excess of Magazines. How can we arouse this person's interest? First of all, be interested in the publications she now has in her home. Compliment her on the fine choice of reading material she has selected. 'Then let her see your Magazine. People like to see what they are buying. Be enthusiastic about it. Point out some of its fine features. For example: the attractiveness of the cover, the quality of the paper, the clear and readable print, and the limited but high type advertising it contains. All mothers want their families to enjoy the best books and magazines so they can cultivate good reading habits, and so we know she will want to include our Magazine in her collection. 605 I was talking to a young mother last week, and in the course of the conversation she told me that her son had come home from school with the assignment to bring a copy of the Preamble to the Constitution to class next morning. It was too late to get to the library; she had looked through all the current magazines she had, but was unable to find it. Suddenly she remembered attending a Relief Society class and the lesson was on the Constitution. She recalled that they all recited in unison several times the Preamble. She immediately gathered her Magazines together and in just a few minutes she found what she was looking for. She hadn't been too interested in the Magazine before, but this little incident aroused her interest enough so that she began reading the material contained in the Magazine. She was delighted at what she found, and I know that The Relief Society Magazine will have preference above the other magazine from now on in_ her home. Another objection: Why Not Have One Church Magazine? This might be a fine idea, but think how hard it would be to carry this large book to our meetings and, inasmuch as the Relief Society lessons are in the Magazine, it would be necessary to take it. Don't you think our present Magazine is a much better size? It is small enough so that it can be easily tucked into our purses, and wherever we go, we can always have good reading material at our fingertips. How privileged and blessed we are to have a Magazine of our very own, edited and published by 606 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1956 inspired women who bring to us the gospel ideals along with the counsel and advice we need in our daily living. Think how difficult it would be for a child to handle such a large book. If he has to thumb through several pages to find the section he is interested in, naturally the pages become soiled and possibly torn; some could even be torn out and lost, and then the magazine would lose some of its value, and, as most women take pride in keeping their Magazine clean, so it can be bound for future reference, it would lose its attractiveness and value. Another drawback would be the expense of compiling and mailing such a book. It could be possible that we would not be able to afford this type of publication. Another thing, three or four members of a family might want to use the magazine at the same time. Father might need it to get a little information for his Priesthood lesson; Johnny might need it because he must give a talk in M. I. A.; Mother would just have to have it to prepare her Relief Society lesson! You can see this could present quite a problem. Can't afford it is another objection we hear from time to time. Have we ever stopped to consider just how little the Magazine actually costs? For twelve and one-half cents a month we can have the finest reading material available delivered directly to our homes. Where else can one find such value for so little? With a little planning, we can save Our money very easily. We could obtain a small dime bank and each month place ten or fifteen cents in it, and in this way our money would be ready for our Magazine representative when she calls for our renewal. When the Magazine was first published the price of the publication was $2. This was really a lot of money to those women, but they worked and struggled to earn the price of the subscription. Today, we receive our magazine for $1.50. How wonderfully blessed we are! One sister keeps a little glass jar handy, and every time she finds a penny or a nickel on the floor, into the little jar it goes. In a short time, with little effort, and no extending of her budget, she has the money for our Magazine. We must have a goal and our goal must be high. We must labor diligently to reach it. If we are successful in reaching our goal, let us not stop, but always have the incentive to do just a bit more. We must never be satisfied, but always have the desire to climb higher and higher. Again, let us consider our calling an important one, and as we go from door to door, our first interest should be to make a friend for the Magazine and a friend for Relief Society, and always keep uppermost in our mind, that we buy our Magazine to read. O~<P-oTime travels in divers paces with divers persons. I'll tell you who Time ambles withal, who Time trots withal, who Time gallops withal, and who he stands still withal. Shakespeare—From As You Like It, Act III, lines 326-29. Sarah 111. Brown lakes Braided Rugs for Home Beautification woman of many artistic gifts, Sarah M. (Knowles) Brown, Nephi, Utah, still enjoys many of her hobbies although she was ninety-seven years old in July 1956. She has made many beautiful braided rugs in unusual designs and in many lovely color patterns. 'Ihe homes of her relatives and friends have been made '"'homey"' and attractive by gifts of her braided rugs, and Mrs. Brown often says, "You always braid much more than cloth into a rug, and you put more than thread into the stitches — you make a pattern of memories and dreams and ideals — and always you think of home." Sister Brown, who remembers well the pioneer days of Juab County, has been a widow for more than fifty years. During the busy times of rearing her seven children, she served devotedly in Relief Society and acted as counselor to three presidents. She also served as Relief Society secretary for many years. All her life she has loved poetry and has entertained public gatherings by "reciting" and giving talks on poetry. Even now, in her advanced years, she is able to recall many poems and she can recite them verbatim. To her, poetry is a mirror of life, enriched with the lasting beauty of words. — + Ilood Vesta N. Lukei Only The lonely ones Completely know the sea, Its need for islands, cloud, shadow, Gull's flight. Page 607 Refreshments for &ntertaining Rhea H. Gardner One-Dish Party Refreshments The beverages served with the fitst three recipes could be a light fruit punch, however, a glass of water is all that is needed. DatTE PupDDING Bring to boiling point in baking dish: 1 c. Brown sugar and 1 c. Water Mix together in mixing bowl: 2 tbsp. Butter % tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Sugar "% ¢. Milk 1 egg beaten 1 c. Chopped dates 1 c. Sifted flour "2 ¢. Chopped nuts 1 tsp. Baking powder Drop pudding mixture by spoonfuls into boiling syrup. Place in oven heated to 350° F. And bake for 25 minutes. Serve warm with whipped cream topping. Ice-Box CAKE Bring to boiling point: 1% c. Milk Pour over one lb. Marshmallows cut into small pieces. Stir until they are all melted. Add: 1 c. Crushed pineapple. When cool, fold into the mixture: 1 c. Cream, whipped % ¢. Maraschino cherries 2 diced bananas % c. Nuts Line an 8" x 8" baking dish with graham cracker or vanilla wafer crumbs. Save % c. Crumbs. Pour fruit mixture into pan. Top with remaining crumbs, Put in refrigerator until ready to serve. Serves 10 to 12. Fruir SALAD Melt 30 marshmallows over hot water with 2 tbsp. Milk. Cool. Fold in: 1 c. Grated cheese "% ¢. Salad dressing mixed with 1 c. Crushed pineapple 1 c. Whipped cream "2 ¢. Nuts Place in tray in refrigerator overnight. Cut into squares and serve with hot rolls, cinaamon toast, or nut bread. Serves 10. Few party refreshments are more refreshing than a bowl of fruit. You may use all fresh, or fresh and canned or frozen, with or without a scoop of fruit sherbet in the center. A slice of nut bread makes it complete. Party Breads and Cookies OranGE-Nut BreEApD 1 egg, well beaten % tsp. Lemon rind grated % c. Strained orange juice 2 tbsp. Melted shortening 1 tbsp. Orange rind grated 2 c.