MY LESSON.

	I will try to tell about a lesson I learned to-
day, in hopes it will benefit some one else, if
we only remember it.  Last night Ned and his
father had just lit the lamp in the sitting room,
and I had finished my kitchen work, and joined
them, where we three, and no more, were to
enjoy a long evening reading aloud from one
of Mrs. Holmes’ works, when some one
knocked at the front door—a man to ask if his
wife and little ones could come in and make a
bed on the floor, as it was too cold to sleep in
the wagon.  We told him he could have the
kitchen and cook-stove to use as he pleased, if
that would suit him.  He was very glad to
get any accomodation, as no one likes to have
their house littered and filled with movers,
especially when there are children.  I sup-
posed there were three or five, perhaps, but
after taking a lamp to the kitchen and throwing
a pan of chips into the stove to make a hot
fire, for it was very cold, Will threw open the
door, and in marched nine persons, where there
was room for us three if we were all good na-
tured.  I saw there was no room for the mother
with a baby in her arms, so I took her into
our room.  She began to unwrap what I took
to be a child about a year old, in very poor
health.
	I said, “Your baby is not well?”
	She replied, “This is not a baby, I have two
younger than this one; he is a little unfortunate
from spinal disease, and is eight years old.”
	I could not look any longer, for I saw that
the light was gone from his eyes and reason
had fled.  I said:
	“Oh how much better off he would be if he
could be laid away to rest forever.”
	She looked up at me surprised, and ex-
plained that those we cared for the most we
loved the most, and if there could be any differ-
ence, she would mourn for this one more than
any of the rest.  He did not suffer now, but
for two years he had screamed night and day,
except when under the influence of opiates,
and often big drops of cold sweat would drop
from his forehead.  That was all over now,
and she could love him and care for him, and
it seemed such a pleasure for her to do so, and
while she was nursing and raising others he
was her chief care; all his food had to be made
soft and put far back on his tongue, for while
he could swallow, he could not chew anything.
She wrapped him up in his blanket, and laid
him in one corner of the room, as you would
a rag doll, and went to the kitchen to prepare
supper for her husband, hired man and other
little ones.
	I shut the door, and thought of my tall,
happy boy and pleasant home, and said to my-
self, “Surely this woman’s burden is greater
than she can bear.” But her pleasant voice

[column 2]
and quick step did not sound like a burden to
any one, and when I saw her down on the
floor with her little ones, the proud, happy
look in her eyes surprised me; but I was more
surprised this morning on looking into the
wagon after they were all ready to start.  I
saw her in the centre of a feather bed, packing
her little ones around her and covering them
with bedding.  I said, “You look comfort-
able!” and she replied with one of her bright
smiles:
	"Yes, we have nothing to complain of."
	I came back to my work with those words
ringing in my ears, and the tears very close
to my eyes.  Nothing to complain of, and I,
who had almost everything, and could not find
work enough to fill my leisure hours, com-
plained every day.	
	Dear sisters, this was my lesson, and it has
done me good; may some of you apply it and
be benefitted by it as I was.—Farm and Gar-
den.							TILDA.


