EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Report of a Primary Conference, held at
Petersborough on the 12th inst, in which the
Primaries of Wellsville and Mendon were re-
presented, and took an active part.
	Meeting convened at 2 p.m., with an over-
flowing house, Stake Prest. Jane E. Molen pre-
siding. After the usual opening exercises, the
programme was taken up with great vigor by
the children, all seeming to realize that they
were engaged in a good work, a work that was
fitting and qualifying them for the future
events that await them. The Spirit of God
prevailed in our midst, thus causing a genial
and pleasant feeling to exist.
	Appropriate dialogues, recitations,songs, etc.,
were beautifully rendered by the children of
the different Associations, plainly showing that
a lively interest is being taken by the presi-
dents for the progression of the work and de-
velopment of the young and tender minds of
the little ones, those germs of goodness and
truth, placed under our care to be taught in
the ways of God.
	At intervals through the exercises, the Asso-
ciations were reported as being in a prosperons
condition, and valuable instructions given by
brethren and sisters who were present, each
expressing their pleasure at seeing so many as-
sembled together, with countenances beaming
with joy and gladness, and hearts and spirits
blended with ties of love and affection. Had
a firm desire to see the little ones grow up to
be men and women of wisdom, of intelligence,
of sobriety, of everything that is calculated to
ennoble, to elevate, to refine, and make them
virtuous, pure and God like.
	Prest. J. E. Molen, in her closing remarks,
counseled the children to honor, obey and re-
spect their parents, show reverence to the
aged, and be kind to all with whom they came
in contact; by so ordering their lives they will
grow up to be wise and useful, helping in the
rolling forth of the purposes of God. The
subject of prayer was also impressed upon their
minds. By being fervent in prayer, we will
be in constant communion with the Holy
Spirit, and thereby elicit aid and assistance in
time of need.
	The children then engaged in singing, "We
are the children of the Saints," and Bro. John
Kidman pronounced the benediction.
	Yours respectfully,
		MAGGIE BROWN.
Wellsville, Utah, July 14, 1888.


Miss Frances E. Willard will be fifty years
old next year, and the National W. C. T. U.
have decided to celebrate the event. At the
convention in Nashville last year, it was re-
solved that she be invited to write her autobio-
graphy, with the history of the Temperance
Union during its sixteen eventful years. Miss
Willard accepted the invitation, and is now
busily engaged upon the book.—Ex.
	The German novelist, George Ebers, lately
received a letter from a ladies' reading club in
St. Louis, Mo., expressing their admiration of
his poem "The Elves" Ebers, in his reply,
expresses warm appreciation of the tribute
paid him, adding; "The poet's offering to his
country is his work; his recompense is his
readers' interest and pleasure. In addressing
your beautiful letter to me, you have given me
more than I deserve, and, as you have been so
kind to me, I take the liberty of drawing
closer to you by inclosing my photograph."—
Ex.


