PRESIDENT FRANKLIN D. RICHARDS.

	Being requested, I will read a few sentences or
a paragraph or two from President Young's ser-
mon, which he delivered, standing where I do
now, just eleven years ago to day; and a good
many who are here to-day will, doubtless, remem-
ber what he then said as I read them. It will be
remembered that on that occasion the house was
well filled with the Relief Societies, the Young
Ladies' Socities, then called Retrenchment So-
cieties, and brethren and sisters. Elder Richards
then read as follows:
	(Taken from the 19th Vol. Journal of Discourses,
Page 66.)
	"The People called Latter-day Saints say they
wish to know and understand how to order their
lives before Him whom we serve and acknowledge
as our Father and our God. If I were to give

[Column 2]

you my own feelings with regard to instructions,
many of you would perhaps consider it egotism;
still, I take the liberty of saying to these my sis-
ters, if the counsel and instruction that your un-
worthy servant has given to the inhabitants of the
earth had been obeyed and carried out, I have
taught them enough to have saved the nations of
the earth, and to have made every one of them to
be Latter-day Saints.
	"We are, professedly, Saints. What is the differ-
ence between a Saint of God and an angel of
God? One is clothed upon with mortality, the
other has passed through mortality and has re-
ceived the celestial glory of our Heavenly Father,
and is free from contaminating influences of sin
that we have to contend with. This is the differ-
ence. We ask the question, can mortal beings
live so they are worthy of the society of angels?
I answer the question for myself— I believe that
they can; I am sure that they can. But in doing
this, they must subdue the sin that is within them-
selves, correct every influence that arises within
their own hearts that is opposed to the sanctify-
ing influences of the grace of God, and purify
themselves by their faith and by their conduct, so
that they are worthy. Then they are prepared for
the society of angels. To be Saints indeed, re-
quires every wrong influence that is within them,
as individuals, to be subdued, until every evil de-
sire is eradicated, and every feeling of their hearts
is brought into entire subjection to the will of
Christ. Now you all believe this just as much as
I do.	*	*	*	*	*	*
	"Here are mothers. Who give the key to the na-
tions of the earth with regard to their feelings,
pride, prejudices; their religion, habits and cus-
toms, and, I may say, who, in a great degree, gov-
ern, that lay the foundation for the ability that is
exhibited among the nations of men? It is the
mothers. Who have laid the foundations in the
hearts of the children to prepare them to be great
and good men? It is not the fathers—it is the
mothers. It is like the saying of the Savior with
regard to the poor. Speaking to His Disciples He
says: 'For the poor always have ye with you,
but me ye have not always.' Now, the children
are always with the mother, and the mother is al-
ways with the children, but the father they have
not. He is in the field at his work; and the
 mother is all the time making impressions upon
the minds of the children. Permit me here to say,
mothers, and my sisters, you who are young, it
will do you good if you will observe it. You see,
hear and witness a good deal of contention among
 children—some of you do, if not all, and I will
give you a few words in regard to your future lives,
that you may have children that are not conten-
tious, not quarrelsome. Always be good-natured
yourselves, is the first step. Never allow your-
selves to become out of temper and get fretful.
'Why,' mothers say, 'this is a very mischievous
little boy or little girl.' What do you see? That
amount of vitality in those little children that they
cannot keep still. If they cannot do anything else
they will trip over the chair, cut up and pull away
at anything to raise a row. They are so full of
life that they cannot contain themselves; and they
are something like ourselves—boys. They have
so much vitality in them that their bones fairly
ache with strength. They have such an amount
of vitality—life, strength and activity, that they
must dispose of it, and the young ones will con-
tend with each other. Do not be out of temper
youselves. Always sympathize with them and
soothe them. Be mild and pleasant. If you see
a child with knives and forks, playing with them,
it might put out its eyes. It will not do to give it
a hammer and a looking glass. What will you do?
I am a person of experience, and know how to
deal with children. If the child has in its hand
that which it should not have, let the mother or
the father, or whoever has charge of the child or
has the right, take such things from it, and put 

[Column 3]

them away where they belong. Now, mothers,
listen to this—Never ask a child to give up that
which it should not have. Step up kindly and
put the article where it belongs. The child will
not say anything. A little circumstance took
place in Salt Lake City. I had business in a
house where I had understood there had been
considerable trouble occasionally; and the mother
would not let the father speak to the children, to
chastise them. I went into the house and talked
to the man. The lady came in and sat down. I
pretty soon saw a little girl, about two years old,
with a thimble in her mouth, sucking it. I went
up to the little girl, took the thimble from her and
put it on the mantle shelf. Says I to the mother,
'You must not allow the child to have this thing;
if it should go into the stomach it will decay.' The
man looked at me as if he would faint away. He
was a large man, but I suppose he never attempted
to say such a thing to his wife in his life. I said
it; and the mother was so confounded that she did
not say a word; and it would not have done her
any good if she had. Now, if you will mind this,
you bring up your children correctly, and teach
them those principles and habits that are correct,
and you will find that you will improve very ma-
terially in your families. If you find that your
children are cruel, do not contend with them,
soothe them, and invite those who, through acci-
dent, have injured a little sister, to pity her. 'You
have accidentally hurt your little sister, go and
kiss her.' By taking this course, you will have
good children, and they will not contend with each
other. I am talking to you of that which I know.
I have had an experience in these matters.
	I will relate a little incident that occurred in my
own family. a little boy, about three and a half
years old, was very ill. His mother would feed
him bread and milk, or whatever he wished. As
soon as he could stand by her, every day he
wanted his bread and milk. Just as soon as he
had got what he wanted, he would throw up his
hands, and away went the basin to the floor. His
mother did not know what to do. Said I, 'If you
will do just as I tell you, I will tell you what to do.
The next time you sit down to feed this little boy,
when he has got through he will knock the dish
out of your hand.' Said I, 'Lean him against a
chair, do not say one word to him, go to your
work, pay no attention to him whatever.' She did
so. The little fellow stood there and looked at
her, watched her; and then he looked at the basin
and the spoon, watch his mother and look at the
basin and spoon again. By and by he got down
and crept along the floor and climbed up to the
chair, and then set the basin on the table, and
crept until he got the spoon and put it on the
table. He never tried to knock that dish out of
her hand again. Now, she might have whipped
him and injured him, as a great many others would
have done; but if they know what to do, they can
 correct the child without violence.
	"One of the nicest things in the world is to let an
enemy alone entirely, and it mortifies him to death.
If your neighbors talk about you, and you think
that they do wrong in speaking evil of you, do not
let them know you ever heard a word, and con-
duct yourselves as if they always did right, and it
will mortify them and they will say, 'We'll not try
this game any longer.' I have seen men, and
women also, that are never happy until they are
miserable, and never easy until they are in pain.
	"These are little things; but is not the world
made up of little things? The whole earth is
made up of small atoms of sand. Our lives are
made up of little simple circumstances, that
amount to a great deal when brought together,
and sum up the whole life of the man or woman;
and yet, in our passing from one to another, our
little acts and incidents seem to be very minute or
simple, but we find that they amount to a great
deal.
	"Now, sisters, will you learn these things? I


want to see the children of this people grow up as 
they should; and I want to go a little farther with
regard to your clildren.  Commence, mothers, 
just as quick as the child is old enough to under-
stand, which is quite young.  They observe the
acts and doings of the mother, and whoever is
present.  From these acts they imbibe their first
impressions.  Now, mothers, do you want your
children to be Saints?  Do you want your sons and
daughters to be  good and great, and their lives
filled up with usefulness?  'Certainly, with all my
heart.'  Then lay that foundation for future life by
teaching each little child what it should do. 
Teach that child honesty, uprightness and truth-
fulness.  Never permit a falsehood to be told, nor
the color of a falsehood, without correction. 
Train that child by your own acts and words, 
from its infancy, so it may imbibe the principle in
its own heart to be perfectly honest.  Teach that 
child to believe  in God our Heavenly Father. 
Teach it to believe, to have confidence in Him. 
	"Why, He is the author of your lives.  Here
are your father and mother with regard to your
natural body.  As soon as they can understand
anything at all, teach them--'Yes, my little child, 
but you have a spirit within you.  Were it not for 
this spirit, you would not have life in you.  Here
are the father and mother of your tabernacle;  but
you have a spirit in you, and the father of that
spirit is your Heavenly Father, whom we serve as
our God.  You must have implicit confidence in
this Being.  You must depend upon Him always. 
If you are in danger in the least, you must believe
in God and ask God to rescue you, to preserve 
you; and your faith must be in the name of Him
that He has given, whom He calls His only Be-
gotton Son, to die a ransom for our sins."  And
as soon as they can understand, teach them with
regard to the original sin.  Teach them to have
implicit confidence in the Father through our
Lord Jesus Christ; and every time they need wis-
dom, to ask for wisdom, and ask for understand-
ing; and every time they are in trouble, ask our
Heavenly Father to give them comfort, and they
will feel joyous instead of grievous, and will feel
a buoyant feeling instead of being cast down. 
Teach the childrea to pray, that when they are
large enough to go into the field with their father
they may have faith that if they are in danger
they will be protected.  Teach them that those
good angels that are ministering spirits, and their
angels, to guard and defend the just and pure
watch over them continually.  And teach them, I am
sorry to say there are not many mothers who do
teach it, that they may grow up with this under-
standing, that our Heavenly Father takes cogniz-
ance of all our acts and doings, and of us, as in-
dividuals, and that His eye is over us, and there
is not so much as a hair of our heads falls to the
ground without the notice of our Heavenly Father. 
Teach them these things and they will grow up
into this habit.  You may call it tradition, but it
is an excellent one.  You can sow the seeds of
infidelity and they will grow there.  Teach the
children so that when they go out from the pres-
ence of their father and mother, God is in all
their thoughts.  Can you come to this under-
standing, mothers?  If I were talking to the
brethren, I shold say no man in this church has
the right or privilege to enter business, or go at
anything without having God in his thoughts, and
asking for guidance and direction in all his ways. 
And I will say to the mothers and sisters, now
give your children this correct tradition in their 
youth.  As I was talking to one of my wives she
said:" Who is there that teaches her children
these things?"  I turned to one and said: "There 
is one of my wives;  she has children full of faith, 
because she made it her business to teach them
the tradition to believe in God the Father, to call
upon Him continually;  and God was in their
thoughts from morning until evening, all the time
they were awake says I."  There is the woman;

[column 2]
she has taught her children."  Now, I know that
mothers can teach their children;  and they ought
to teach them, and this is my duty to tell you what
to do in this case.  Remember to traditionate your
children in the nurture and admonition of the 
Lord.  Teach them as they ought to be taught, 
and they will have faith from their youth up, and
the Spirit of the Lord to direct them, that they
may never lose sight of this faith in Christ, and
our Heavenly Father, and when they are old they
will not depart from the good path.  I am firm in
the faith and verily believe, that if mothers will
bring up their children aright, and give them that
early training that they should have, their children
will grow up and never depart from the path of
rectitude and truth. 
	The mothers are the moving instruments in the
hands of Providence to guide the destinies of na-
tions.  Let the mothers of any nation teach their 
children not to make war, the children will grow
up and never enter into it.  Let the mothers teach
their children, "War upon your enemies, yes, war
to the hilt!"  and they will be filled with this spirit. 
Consequently, you see at once what I wish to im-
press upon your mind is, that the mothers are the
machinery that give zest to the whole man, and 
guide the destinies and lives of men upon the
earth."
			To be Continued.


