VISITING BRETHREN.

	Apostles Franklin D. Richards and Heber J
Grant, Lewis W. Shurtliff, Prest. Weber Stake,
President Angus M. Cannon, of Salt Lake Stake,
Samuel W. Richards, Dr. Edward Isaacson, and
several other Presidents and Bishops, and a num-
ber of visitors from Salt Lake and other parts.
	Prest. Jane S. Richards called the meeting to
order, and the  congregation joined in singing,
"How firm a foundation." Prayer was offered by
Bishop Robert McQuarrie. Continued by singing,
"Come all ye sons of Zion."
	Sister Jane S. Richards, Prest. of the Relief So-
ciety of Weber Stake, then said:
	My beloved sisters, I feel as though I could
speak for you all to-day, when I say that we have
come here with the full intention of having a good
time. I hope so, I trust we have; and I think

[Column 2]

that if we have brought that desire with us strong
enough, the same inspiration that appointed this
meeting, we shall have a good time, and the Spirit
of the Lord will be with us. This is my greatest
desire.
	We have been honored with a number of our
friends from the city, who have come up, even
more than I expected. That shows that they
think something of us. It seems something like
uniting Salt Lake and Weber County together,
and that is just what we want to do—to increase
our union. I feel very grateful to all the brethren
and sisters who have come up hither. They are
nearly all our friends and intimate acquaintances,
and I trust we shall have a good time.
	Of course, everything is plain and sim-
ple with us here. Our talk is simple and small,
and sometimes we have a very good time in talk-
ing these simple things that we have to live
through in life, day by day. Our work is made
up of almost everything small. We are here to
commemorate the day when President Brigham
Young preached his last sermon in Weber County;
and when I think of the good instructions he then
gave, I wonder how much of them we have carried
in our lives? I ask myself this question very
frequently, and I find that I do not carry out as
much as I ought to; but one thing I do, I try to
do better to-day than I did yesterday, and my de-
sires are good. Indeed, I know my Counselors,
the presidents and sisters of this Stake, endeavor
to carry out all the instructions the Priesthood
gives us at all times.
	I am pleased we have two of the Apostles and
President A. M. Cannon from Salt Lake, and
other of the brethren and sisters who have had a
great experience in this Church, and who under-
stand what they have to go through with. And we
feel pleased to-day to make them WELCOME here
in our midst, and will listen to their instructions
I must say that from the day that our beloved
President Young gave the instructions here from
this stand about our holding meetings quarterly,
they have increased and done a great deal of good.
Still there are some who will say, "I do not know
how to get to meeting to-day. I can't leave the
family very well. I don't know how I can leave."
But those who have made the effort and have gone
to those meetings have said that it made them feel
much better.  It encouraged them. And after I
have spoken they have said, "You have spoken
my mind exactly, better than I could have done it
myself." It was a difficult thing to get the sisters
started. We now enjoy our meetings together
much better.
	We are going to have a portion of President
Young's sermon, which he delivered eleven years
ago, read to-day; the counsel therein contained
is wise and fatherly. I know it is almost impossi-
ble to do exactly right; but we are trying to do it
from time to time. We are trying to do what we
are told by the President and authorities. In the
past we had Sister Eliza, who was kind enough to
come often and counsel us and direct our labors. We
have listened to her instructions from time to time,
and have taken pleasure in following her advice.
We have thought when Sister Eliza was here
everything would go right. She has visited with
me throughout this County since these quarterly
meetings have been inaugurated. President Tay-
lor has been here, and we have been blessed.
President Woodruff, and Brothers Cannon and
Smith would be here to day if they could. Their
hearts are here with us, and their sympathies are
with us, and we would be glad to have them here
if circumstances were favorable, but they are pre-
vented from mingling in our society to-day.
	Now, for a long time we have missed Sister
Eliza, and she is gone beyond this life. But we
have another President to take her place, one who
has traveled shoulder to shoulder throughout this
territory with Sister Eliza, and it would have been
a great pleasure to have had her here with us on


[Column 1]

this occasion. But she is not in the territory now,
or she would be here to-day. I know her heart is
here, and if I could postpone the 19th day of July
until Sister Zina could come, I should be pleased.
But I cannot do it. We should pray for Sister
Zina where she is. And I pray the Lord to hasten
the time that she may be in our midst, traveling
around among the sisters, comforting them as
heretofore, and as Sister Eliza R. S. Smith has
done.
	Sisters, I don't feel that it is permissible for me
to take up the time to-day. I am thankful to see you
here. I am thankful that during this busy time, when
you say it is this and it is that which requires my
time, when harvest is at hand, and with the exer-
cise of everything in its turn, I am glad, I say,
that you have had time to meet together.
	I can speak with pride of the sisters of Weber
County. I have never asked them to do one
single thing and have been refused. They have
been more than willing to do everything that was
required of them. And this makes me feel happy.
I have always had my requests honored; and for
this I thank you here to-day.
	May God bless us, that we may have a good time
I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen.

