			NEW MEXICO, June 26, 1888.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	DEAR SISTER:—I have been trying for
weeks to find a few spare moments in which I
might pen a few lines once more, for it is really
cheering to read the many beautiful articles in
the EXPONENT, and causes me to feel hopeful
enough to try again, though so many obstacles
are in the way.
	June, with its lovely roses, is nearly gone,
and I have so often thought of you, and wished
I might send you a bouquet of the fine ones
growing in our garden; but there is a little one
laying in her cradle beside me, "Sweeter than
all the roses," that I wish you could see.  I do
not mention my baby as if she were the only
one, but because I must, for my heart is so
filled with thanks to God for this precious gift
sent to gladden our lonely home, that I cannot
look at her innocent face and keep silent.
	The "glorious Fourth" will soon be here, and
we anticipate having a nice quiet time; have
invited the few people that live in the valley.
The weather is very warm indeed, making one
feel much inclined to be idle.
	It is ten days since I began my letter, and I
thought to finish it at once, but writing is one

[Column 2]
of the tasks which I must compel myself to
perform.  Oh, it would be so nice to be able to
run in and chat awhile with my dear friends,
for I really get hungry to do so; and now I am
calling them up one by one in my mind's eye.
How encouraging it is to look at their sweet,
patient faces, many bearing such heavy bur-
dens.  Oh, I fancy I see the angels lift them
now and then, to rest the weary shoulders, and
the still more weary heart and brain.
	Oh, dear sisters, do you think our kind, lov-
ing Father is unmindful of what you are suf-
fering to maintain those pure principles He
has revealed for our salvation?  Let us live
the present days of trial in the hope of the
great pay, that the future will surely bring to
those who remain pure and true.  And, oh,
let us love and encourage one another, putting
jealousy and envy under our feet.  Have we
not enough to bear of realities without suffer-
ing over imaginary causes.  Do we not expect
to associate together in the great hereafter? and
can we look for perfect love and union there,
unless we break down some of the barriers to
that union and love here?  We will, most as-
suredly, begin at the very point we leave off.
We cannot overcome all our weaknesses at
once, but we can and must be charitable, and
stand by each other, in spite of these petty
frailties, if we wish a clear conscience and the
divine approval of heaven.
	If we have not thought of these things it is
certainly time we were doing so.  It is a try-
ing time to the Saints, and yet we can truly
say there never was a time when we had more
cause to rejoice and give thanks to our God,
for are not all the legions below turned loose
to try and destroy us, and does not the same
power that permits of our temptation help us
to understand it? and by resisting the tempter
and being humble and prayerful, we will
prove our worthiness to dwell within the
realms of light, beyond the reach of sin for-
ever and ever.
