DEAR EDITOR:
	I have only just met with an opportunity to
peruse the EXPONENT for April 15th, 1888.
It contains an article entitled, "The Old
Home," which has made me feel as though my
very heartstrings would break.  It has brought
the early scenes of my childhood so vividly to
my mind, and "The Old Home" so truly de-
scribes my own feelings, that I at once re-
solved to write a little about myself.  You may
not think it worthy of a place in the EXPONENT,
but that I leave to your better judgment.  I
will venture to send it, and would be pleased to 
see it in that paper. 
	My childhood was a very happy time.  I 
was admitted as a scholar in the Sunday School
at the age of five years, where I was as per-
fectly happy as a child could be, for I loved
my teacher as my own soul, and have gone to
school many times without my breakfast lest I
should not be there before her, ready to greet
her as soon as she came.  I do not remember
that during these years of childhood I had a 
single trouble.  My father had a good farm,
therefore we were surrounded with the com-
forts of life.  We had abundance of fruit and 
vegetables in their season.  A splendid lawn
was spread out in front of the house with here

[column 2]
and there a clump of flowers, and, my father
being a florist, they were some of the choicest;
a row of majestic looking elm trees stood along
the outside of the fence, which gave our place
the name of "The Five Elms."  On one side of
our house and garden was a large green sward,
where boys and girls, and sometimes father
and mother, would join in a merry game of
play.  On the other side was our farm build-
ings, and at the back was our kitchen garden.
In the front of all, and next to the elm trees,
were two or three acres of land, at that time
uncultivated, but it grew wild raspberries and
furze, which was always in bloom, and very
pretty, and what was better still, it supplied us
with as many fine rabbits as we needed.
	Harvest time had come, and the precious
grain was being gathered in.  We had already
built two or three stacks and filled our barn to
overflowing, still there was much to be done,
when our dear mother was seized with sickness,
and was soon delirious with brain fever.  We
were but children and easily alarmed, and were
watching her with great anxiety, for we had no
one with us, father being in the harvest field
half a mile away.  "Hark!" cried my sister;
"listen!"  I did listen, and the next moment
heard for myself "Fire, fire!"  In our excite-
ment we ran to the window.  Meanwhile, our
mother seemed to comprehend that something
was the matter, and in her fright leaped out of
bed and down the stairs.  Her fright giving
her strength, she ran across the lawn, fell down
under one of the elms and fainted.  She was
carried to the nearest neighbor's house, a few
rods away, which she never left again until she
was carried to her grave.
	But the fire, how shall I describe that?  It
had happened through one of the farm hands
taking advantage of our father's absence to
smoke a pipe in the barn, dropped a spark and
it was soon in a blaze.  We were two miles 
away from the fire brigade, and the same dis-
tance from water, living upon a high gravel
hill, where everything is as dry as dust, and
before father could reach home all the build-
ings were wrapped in flames, and we knew it
could not escape, for it stood within two yards
of the barn.
	In half an hour we had the fire brigade and
3,000 people upon the grounds, hundreds of 
them willing to assist, but very little could be
done, for our largest wheat stack, valued at
$1,000, was burning fiercely away, and seemed
to be laughing us to scorn.  "Betsy," said I to
my sister, "who can those three men be on the
top of that burning stack?  Look how the
flames are wrapping around their legs, they
will surely be burned to death."  The next
moment we saw the firemen directing the
water over the men, that they might be kept
wet and cool while they threw the sheaves of
wheat down for others to drag away on to the 
common.  Brave fellows!  they acted nobly,
but they were badly scorched and could not
save the stack.
	But now our patience is about to be painfully
tried.  Some men are rushing into the house 
and beginning to throw the furniture pell mell
on the lawn.  Now our troubles began in
earnest; how we cried.  What would mother
say to see all those good things spoiled?  "Oh,
do be careful of that mahogany clock, father
bought it only a few weeks ago, and he gave a
lot of money for it."  this was one of those
clocks about six feet high, ornamented on the
top with gilt knobs; how handsome it looked,


[Column 1]

especially to our young eyes. "Oh, do be
careful!" "Get out of my way, and don't
hinder me; I have no time to be careful," and
one man took hold of one end and another
took hold of the other end, and standing on the
door stone, threw it on the lawn as far as their
strength would let them; and so with every-
thing else in the house.
	Oh, that dreadful crash! What can it be?
Turning in a moment to where the sound came
from, we were struck with terror, for we beheld
the roofs of all the buildings—cart-house,
stables, barn and sheds—falling in together,
and the sight was one never to be forgotten.
The blood red flames and black smoke shooting
up to the sky, were awfully grand, and had it
not been so terrible, would have been truly
magnificient.
	"Look at those pretty white chickens; what
can possess them to fly into the flames to be
roasted to death?" We cannot save them, but
we congratulate the poor horses, who are in the
harvest field, and therefore safe.
	Well, the fire burned on. It was plainly to
be seen that it would not yield until everything
was consumed. One stack after another bowed
to the devouring element, until all our hay, as
well as our grain, was gone, for it burned so
rapidly that nothing could be removed until it
was spoiled. It burned all night; and, O, the
desolate picture that met my eyes when day-
light appeared next morning, I could not de-
scribe, though I can see it all so perfectly. Hun-
dreds of men were still there, and with their
blackened hands and faces, and drenched
clothes, looked objects of pity. The fire con-
tinued to burn for twelve days, smouldering
and blazing alternately, for the grain being
new, it took longer to consume.
	But, to return to my mother. She never re-
covered from the shock, but lingered on for
seven years, a confirmed invalid. We all went
to live in the same house with her, and, being
the eldest daughter, it was my melancholy duty,
with the assistance of my sister, to nurse her.
Her decline was very gradual, but at last the
time came when we had to call the family
around her bed, feeling that her time had come.
She was a very reserved woman, and we did
not expect to hear much from her lips, but the
last words came—"Lord, Jesus, receive my
spirit."—two or three gasps and she was gone.
We did not realize it until my father, in a 
solemn and subdued tone, said, "The Lord
gave, and the Lord hath taken away, blessed
be the name of the Lord." Then our tears be-
gan to flow indeed. We all imprinted a kiss
on her already cold forehead and left her.
	The day of the funeral came, and we had to
lay away one of the sweetest and kindest of
mothers.
	With bleeding hearts we entered the meeting
house, and it was with difficulty we could fix
our minds upon the funeral service. I was at
length aroused by the minister reading the
words of Abraham, when his wife Sarah died—
"Give me the possession of a burying place,
that I may bury my dead out of my sight."
At the sound of these words the tears gushed
forth afresh, but I often think now, that if we 
had known the Gospel as revealed by the
Prophet Joseph, how it would have mitigated
our sorrow; but, thanks to our Father in Hea-
ven, the Gospel has been revealed, the work
for my father and mother has been performed
in the Temple, and they have been reunited
for eternity, and I have a hope that when I get
behind the veil I shall again enjoy their so-
ciety.
	When my mother died, our family was scat-
tered far and wide; some of them I never saw
again; they died one by one, until nearly are
gone.
	More than thirty years after I lost my mother,
I was seized with an intense longing to see my
native place again, and to visit the grave of
my mother and those of my brothers who had

[Column 2]

been laid by her side. I had one brother left
near my home, whom I visited, and from his
window I could see the room where my mother
died. I walked round the old garden, saw the
flowers she planted, at least some that had been
raised from the same roots; I went into the
room where she died, and stood upon the same
spot where her remains had been laid while
awaiting burial. I sat down and went, and
cried, "Oh, my mother! my mother!" But,
painful as this was, it was much more so to
visit the place where the old farm once stood.
Oh, the agony of grief I felt! The old place
had been much altered, but there were many
things to remind me of former times. Another
farm had been built upon the same spot, which,
of course, was nearly all strange to me, but
not quite all, for the fire had spared a small
back room, which used to be mine, also a large
brick oven, where we used to bake our bread
for the family; this was all that remained of
the house. I walked into the garden, but I
cannot begin to describe what I felt, but enough
to make me feel that I would like to lie down
beside my mother under the large lilac tree—
a spot our minister had given us in his garden
for a burying place. 
	I saw the grand old elms still there, and
much of the handiwork of my father's hands
in years gone by. I saw my mother's sweetest
of all honeysuckles growing just the same as it
was thirty years before from the porch and
partly over the roof of the house. The old
wood had been cut away year by year, and the
new shoots allowed to grow, so that it looked
just the same. What I felt over all this, none
can better realize than your correspondent of
"The Old Home." While I cannot look back 
upon any act of wilful disobedience, or any
wish to give offense to my beloved parents, yet
I wished, O, how I wished that I had striven
more than I did to please them. The very
thought that I might have served them better
was almost more than I could bear, and many
times since then I have thought that if I was
treated by my relatives and friends, so that
they could look upon my dead face without a
pang of self-regret, it is all I wish for. It is
very pleasant to hear the good deeds of our
fellow Saints spoken of after they are gone, or
to see flowers placed around their coffin or their
graves—all this is very beautiful, but does not
help the dear ones who have left us. The kind,
sympathetic word, the little act of kindness, or
even a pleasant look, while living, is worth
moro than all the eulogy that can be showered
upon us when gone. Those whose hearts have
been crushed over and over again, become very
sensitive, and need sympathy as much as they
need their daily food. If any doubt this, let
them wait until they have passed through seas
of suffering and sorrow, and are ready to say
with the Psalmist, "All thy waves and thy bil-
lows have gone over me;" let them lay in the
silent tomb father and mother, sisters and
brothers; in addition to this, let them be called
to give back to their Heavenly Father one
sweet babe after another, until they are left
childless and a widow. All this I have passed
through, and much more. My first born son
was spared to me, but he does not know his
mother, for is she not a Mormon? Yes, thank
God! I am a Mormon, and even my love
for my first-born will not induce me to draw
back. I am an imperfect one, it is true, and I
know it, but it is my daily study to keep firm
hold of the "rod of iron," which leads to the
tree of life. Since my home was destroyed by
fire; I have felt like a stranger in a strange
land, for the feeling of "home" has never en-
tered into my breast from that hour, but I am
looking forward to the time when I shall be at
rest in the everlasting home of the Saints. I
thank my Father for opening the way for me
to come to Zion, and for opening hearts to re-
ceive me.
	May God bless kind friends a hundred fold.

[Column 3]

May He bless all those who are engaged in any
way in helping to build up His kingdom.
