DEAR EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	It gave me much pleasure to read your notice
and sketch of our distinguished visitor, Mrs.
Julia, Ward Howe. Hundreds of intelligent
Mormon ladies would have appreciated the
privilege of hearing and seeing her, if a lecture
in the Theatre had been given. I doubt if
anywhere in the civilized world, woman is more
willing to accord to woman an appreciative
and just homage. Years ago, Florence Percy
(Elizabeth Akers Allen) wrote to me, "Praise
from woman seems so strange to me; it is so
unusual in my experience."
	When first I heard the "Battle Hymn of the
Republic," it was in California. Four of my
mother's brothers had volunteered, and two
had fallen in the service. My mother was an
Abolutionist, my father a Southerner in his

[Column 2]

proclivities, and sympathized with the confeder-
ates, and many of the Officers—Stonewall
Jackson and Robert E. Lee, among them—were
old acquaintances of his. I often heard both.
sides of the question in glowing language. In-
tense feeling prevailed all abound us; many of 
our friends volunteered, among them men of
wealth and prominence. Regulars and volun-
teers were encamped in our vicinity awaiting
marching orders, and in the interval father
invited a number of the officers to visit us,
which they did, during the winter and spring
of 1861.
	I often yet recall the songs then so popular
—"Lorena," and "When This Cruel War is
Over," among them. I have these now, in 
manuscript faded, but not torn, and the hand
that traced them was hidden long ago, and a 
Fort named for him marks his resting place. 
Blended with that lofty patriotism was the
spirit of songs, that made officer and subordin-
ate kindred in sympathy. Often while I
listened, there seemed to me as much of sad-
ness as of sweetness in words and music, a
romantic tinge of melancholy around the
heroic men who had freely offered their lives to
their country.
	Of the many we had known, a few returned
when the war was over, to tell us the stories of
the others.
	One night, before they were to march in the
morning, a number called to pay us a parting
visit. Three of the gentlemen were, a Major,
a Lieutenant, an Adjutant of the Regulars;
also a Captain and two Lieutenants of the
Volunteers.
	The "Battle-Hymn of the Republic" had
just come out. I was sick and in my own
room, and did not see the company, but on go-
ing, they paused under the great trees that sur-
rounded the house, and sang in the darkness,
all together, as farewell and serenade, the
"Battle-Hymn of the Republic." The spirit
of the great national struggle, felt so intensely
everywhere, the darkness of the night and the
parting from old friends, going to the field of
death, the indescribable pathos and sacredness
of that farewell, so full of hope, trust and
strength, as breathed in those words, filled my
mind with emotions and admiration beyond
expression. And often since, when I have
come across that poem in my scrap book, or its
title in some paper, book or magazine, I have
closed my eyes for a moment or two to live
over again that hour in my girlhood, and have
felt to thank heaven for the many jeweled
hours of that life. I have always appreciated
as a heavenly gift,any and all incidents of life
that were beautiful and worthy of cherished
remembrance. And are not beautiful memories
worth more than gold or silver?
	But not alone the romance of chivalry in
the time of our Nation's danger and its grand
expression in that Hymn, made the poet's lines
of deep interest to me; I learned to read it
anew, without the thought of waving flag and
martial music, without the proud thought of
splendid uniforms and dashing cavalry, even
without remembrance of that dark night and
the soulful voices under the great shadowy
branches; I have dreamed those lines over be-
side the broad hearths within low roofed log
cabins, repeated them in my heart within a
wagon's cover, and studied their new meaning
in my own home with my babe asleep on my
arm. Once it was to me a War hymn, now it is
a hymn of history and prophecy. From be-
ginning to end it holds a spiritual significance
to our people, that the author never intended,
or knew of in that application.
	Who, better than the Latter-day Saint, un-
derstands the truth and beauty of that first
verse? It is Scripture.

	"Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the
		Lord;

[Column 3]

	He is trampling out the vintage where the grapes of wrath
		are stored;
	He has loosed the fateful lightnings of His terrible swift
		sword
			His truth is marching on."

God was 

	"In the watch fires of an hundred circling camps," 

when the plundered and driven Saints gathered
around them; they

	"Builded Him an altar in the evening's dews and damps,"

when nightly their prayers ascended to Him,
and what was

	"His righteous sentence by the dim and flaring lamps."

yes,

	"His day is marching on."

	We know that,

	"He has sounded forth the trumpet that shall never call
		retreat, 
	He is sifting out the hearts of men before His judgment
		seat—"

He is gathering to Himself those who will re-
ceive His Gospel, and the rest are as the chaff 
beneath the seive;

	"O, be swiift my soul to meet Him, be jubilant my feet!
		Our God is marching on."

	Who realizes this more than the Latter-day 
Saints?

	"With a glory in His bosom that transfigures you and me."

	Has not the Gospel made us different from
what we were? Our thoughts, plans, aspira-
tions and works are lifting us forever into a
higher sphere of understanding. Are we not
transfigured from our former selves? Can any-
one understand us,who has not received of that
spirit from His bosom?

	"As He died to make men holy, let us die to make men
		free,
			While God is marching on."

	When Joseph and Hyrum returned and
gave themselves up, that their people might be
free from the savage fury of their enemies, they
fulfilled the spirit of those words. And "God
is marching on." Not words of poetry and
grandeur alone, but words of truth and power.
But among the millions who admire that Hymn,
how few read it by this light.
	Yes, as a Mormon woman I can feel its ap-
propriateness to my faith and people, and look
forward, as the author did, to the deliverance
of the Republic, great and glorious among
nations. More than that—for the kingdom of
God.
	I would have loved to have met the woman
who wrote that poem, but could not; however,
I wrote to Mrs. Julia Ward Howe a little of
what I have written here (during her stay in
Salt Lake City), and the lady kindly answered
me.
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON. 
South Bountiful, July 22, 1888.


