EMMELINE B, WELLS, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City. Utah.

	Entered at the East Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

Salt Lake City, 	 August 1, 1888.


[column 1]
		THE TWENTY-FOURTH.
	The commemoration of the anniversary of the
entrance of the Pioneers into this valley was cele-
brated last month with appropriate services in the
large Tabernacle, an immense concourse of peo-
ple being in attendance.  It was forty-one years
since the company of Pioneers arrived where Salt 
Lake City now stands.  The grand organ was
handsomely draped with the stars and stripes, and
a steel engraving of President Brigham Young
hung in the centre among the national colors.
Underneath it a banner bore the one word,
"Unity." Below this another banner, with the
words, "Utah's Association."  On the south side
of the organ were the words, "Pioneers '47;" on 
the north side, "Welcome."  The three stands
were draped with national flags, and the platform
in front of the stands, used on such occasions,
was tastefully ornamented with flowers and plants
in bloom.  On one side was the head and horns of
a buffalo, with its long, shaggy hair, and on the
other the very old flag of stars and stripes, that
was flung out to the mountain breeze from Ensign
Peak on their first visit to the mountains, two days
after their arrival.
	The committee of arrangements, officers of the
Sunday School and six of the Pioneers were upon
the platform.  The Pioneers were, Mrs. Clara
Decker Young, widow of the late Brigham Young,
Patriarch Lorenzo D. Young, his brother, Bishop
Jacob Weiler, Bishop Millen Atwood and Charles
D. Branham.  On the stand were Apostles John
Henry Smith, Heber J. Grant, John W. Taylor,
Patriarch John Smith, Prest. Seymour B. Young,
M. D., Prest. Angus M. Cannon, Members of the 
High Council, Sunday School officers and others.
Ass't Gen. Supt. of Deseret S. S. Union presided.
The 6th Ward silver band played a selection, and 
the S. S. children, Elder Thos. McIntyre leading,
sung, "Our Mountain Home so Dear."  Prayer
by Elder George Goddard.  A Xylophone solo, by
Adelbert Beesley, was followed by an address
from President Wilford Woodruff, read by Elder
B. F. Cummings, Jr.
To the Pioneers and Citizens, and to the Officers
	and Members of the Sabbath Schools:
	MY DEAR FRIENDS:—Forty-one years ago
this day I passed through Emigration Canon with
President Brigham Young.  He was taken sick on
East Cañon Creek, and I made a bed for him in
my carriage. When we came upon the bench I
turned the side of the vehicle to the west, so that
he could obtain a fair view of the valley.  Presi-
dent Young arose from his bed and took a survey
of the country before him for several minutes. He
then said to me, "Drive on down into the valley,
this is our abiding place.  I have seen it before in
vision.  In this valley will be built the City of the
Saints and the Temple of our God."  I drove
[column 2]
down to the encampment already formed by a por-
tion of our company, who had cut a road through
the quaking asp groves of timber which were in
the bed of the canon and come in ahead of us.
	We arrived in the encampment at half-past
eleven of the 24th of July, 1847  The brethren 
had already turned out City Creek and irrigated
the dry and barren soil, being the first irrigation 
ever performed by any one in these mountains in
this age.  They had also commenced to plough
some ground, and that noble pioneer, William
Carter, whose circumstances prevent him from
meeting with the pioneers to-day, broke the first
ground and laid the first furrow.  The plowshare
that performed the work is on the stand to-day.
On my arrival in camp, before I ate my dinner, I
planted two bushels of potatoes in the ground
broke up.  President Young commenced to re-
cover from his sickness the hour he entered the
valley.  On a day or two following our arrival, a
remarkable incident occurred.
	While President Young was walking with
several of the Apostles on the higher ground
northwest of our encampment, he suddenly 
stepped out, stuck his cane into the barren ground
and sagebrush, and exclaimed, "Right here will
stand the Temple of our God."  We had a peg
driven down, and it was nearly in the middle of 
the Temple as it stands to-day, which Temple was
bailt without any regard to the spot designated by
President Young at that time.
	On the 26th, we went to the top of a high point 
on the north of the city, which President Young
named "Ensign Peak."  We also visited the Hot
and Warm Springs.  On the 27th we drove to the
West Mountains and visited the Salt Lake, Presi-
dent Young being the first to dip his hand into the
briny water.  We walked dryshod to the Black
Rock and took a bath in the Lake.  Afterwards
preparations were made for laying out the city,
and I, with other brethren, assisted President 
Young in laying out the ground and streets with
chain and compass.  We laid out a block of ten
acres upon which to build a Temple, and city lots
of one acre and a quarter, and streets eight rods
wide, all of which has been published by his-
torians.
	President Young left Winter Quarters on the 
seventh day of April, accompanied by seven other
Apostles and other men, all told 143 men and 3
women.  The Apostles were, Brigham Young,
Heber C. Kimball, W.  Woodruff, George A.
Smith, Willard Richards, Orson Pratt, Amasa
Lyman and Ezra T.  Benson.  John Taylor and
Parley P. Pratt arrived soon after, leading com-
panies of families.  Orson Hyde remained in
Kanesville.  We traveled the first 500 miles with-
out any grass.  With the exception of a little
grain we fed our animals, they lived entirely on
the bark of cottonwood limbs and saplings,
which they gnawed from the trees, we would lay
before them for their night's meal.  This company
of 145 men traveləd 1030 miles, making their roads
and building their bridges.  In one instance we
had to form a guard of a wedge shape for three
days and nights to keep our company from being
trampled to death by an enormous herd of buffalo,
that had gathered from the mountains and were
migrating in a solid body to the plains below.
The herd was judged to be sixty miles in length,
and numbered not less than one million.   They
were traveling east and we were traveling west.
We were three days passing through the herd, and 
we all breathed freer when we were clear of them.
No other class of men will ever witness the same
scene again upon the face of the earth.  Brother
Wm. C. A. Smoot, sen., got his horses loose and
mixed with the herd, and it was with great difficulty
we obtained them again.
	Notwithstanding our first care was to secure an
abiding place, a home for the people, we did not
lose sight of other important matters. President
Young contemplated at that early day the building
[column 3]
of a railroad across the continent, and we marked 
out the route which we thought the national road
would take to unite the Atlantic and Pacific
oceans.
	Brothers Orson Pratt and Erastus Snow entered
the valley two or three days before the body of
pioneers, but where are those men to-day, and
where is President Brigham Young and the
Apostles who accompanied him? All are in the
spirit world mingling with the martyred Prophets,
where they can plead for their brethren.   Not
one of them living to-day, except myself, and but
few of the pioneers remain.  We have buried a
whole quorum of Twelve Apostles since we en-
tered these valleys of the mountains.  The rem-
nant of Zion's Camp, Mormon Battalion and the
Pioneers number but very few to-day.  Those of
us who remain will soon pass away, but our pos-
terity live and are numbered in the Primaries, the
Sabbath Schools and the Mutual Improvement
Associations, and are this day assembled in this
great Tabernacle to celebrate the arrival of the
Pioneers into this great American Desert, which 
today, through the blessing of God and the labor
of the Pioneers, is blossoming as the rose.
	This company of pioneers spent about a month
in this valley, during which period we erected
what is known as the Old Fort, surrounding three
sides of a ten acre block, with an adobe wall
about ten feet high on the outside, and the east
side with log cabins.  We also arranged for this 
fort to have four entrances, one on each point of
the compass.
	Most of the Pioneers returned to Winter Quar-
ters, where they arrived in the fall, making a
journey of over two thousand miles, besides the
labors performed while here in building a fort,
laying out the city and exploring adjacent valleys.
	I wish to say a few words to the members of the
Sabbath Schools and to all who are assembled in
this Tabernacle to-day to celebrate the arrival of
the Pioneers into this valley.  It is not wisdom
for me to occupy your time with a long address
upon an occasion of this kind, but I have referred
to a few incidents of our peculiar journey into
this barren desert, that you may keep in mind the
toil, the care and the hardships which your
fathers endured in laying the foundation of the
Zion of our God, which is to be established in the
mountains of Israel, in fulfilment of the blessing
of the old Patriarch Jacob pronounced upon his
posterity that should be fulfilled in the valleys of
the everlasting hills in the latter-days.  And upon
the heads of the rising generation of the Latter-
day Saints rests the responsibility of building up
the kingdom of God upon the foundations which
their fathers have laid.  And also of building up
a State in which shall dwell virtue, temperance,
industry, frugality and honesty; a State which will
do honor to the American government, where
wholesome laws shall be administered in equity
and justice to all of its citizens, according to the
letter and spirit of the Constitution given by in-
spiration of Almighty God to our forefathers.
	I feel to say to our children, Honor your father 
and your mother and your God, that your days
may be long and prosperous in these valleys of
the mountains which the Lord your God has given
unto you.
	That God may bless you all, and enable you to
fulfill the object of your creation here on the
earth to the satisfaction of yourselves and your
Creator, is the earnest desire of your friend and
brother,
					WILFORD WOODRUFF.
	Elder C. R. Savage made some remarks about
the plow that turned the first sod in Utah, and
that Elder Wm. Carter, now in the Penitentiary 
for conscience' sake, was the man who turned the
first sod.  He then read a brief letter from Bro.
Carter, which stated, "The plow has a place in the
Museum."  The speaker displayed the remains of
the plowshare, and also the old flag which was


lifted up on the mountains (Ensign Peak), as the
ensign of American liberty, by the pioneers.
Rounds of applause from the vast audience fol-
lowed. Bishop Millen Atwood, Bishop Jacob
Weiler, Patriarch Lorenzo D. Young, of the
pioneers, each made appropriate remarks.
	Bro. Young in his address said: “I want to re-
hearse to you a sentiment that was expressed to
to me by my wife, Harriet, who was with me, and
was one of three pioneer women, and other two
being Ellen Sanders Kimball and Clara Decker
Young, the latter of whom occupies a seat on this
stand to-day. My wife, looking over the valley—
there was no green thing for the eye to feed upon,
except about a half-dozen old cottonwood trees,
which grew near where the Methodist Church
now stands—turning to me she said: ‘Well, father,
(she was in the habit of thus addressing me) we
have traveled more than twelve hundred miles to
find a resting place, and as feeble as I am, I'm
willing to travel a thousand miles further, if we
could only find a place worth looking at, for it
seems to me no white people can live here.” Bro.
Young had been telling the people how desolate
this valley appeared when the pioneers came in;
“a valley of dry sunflowers, well stocked with
black crickets.”
	Sister Julia A. Silverwood sang:
"O Saints, have you seen, o'er yon mountain's proud
	height."

Chorus by the Tabernacle Choir.
	The Sunday School children sang:
			"Beautiful Zion, built above."

	Elder Geo. Goddard then read a letter from
Elder Richard Ballantyne, who started the first
Sunday School in Utah, in 1849.
	“Hail Columbia,” by the Silver Band. A. W.
Beach was called, and stood before the audience
while it was explained that he was the first child
born in Utah, in the Old Fort, Salt Lake City,
27th of October, 1857. He resides now at Ameri-
can Falls, Idaho. 
	Elder B. F. Cummings, jr., then read a letter
from the General Supt. of Deseret S. S. Union,
Prest. Geo. Q. Cannon. It was addressed to the
Superintendents, Teachers and Children of the
Sunday Schools, and contained much instruction
and many truths beautifully told.
	McIntyre’s Glee Club then sang, “The Soldier’s
Chorus.
	Then there was a stirring speech by Apostle
John Henry Smith, after which Sister Agnes
Olsen Thomas sang, in her own sweet style,
‘Thy Return."
	Bro. Moroni Thomas rendered in an excellent
voice, the anthem, “Ye shall dwell in the Land."
	An interesting speech from Apostle Heber J.
Grant. Bro. Goddard paid an appropriate com-
pliment to Bro. Joseph H. Ridges, who built the
Tabernacle Organ, and the S. S. children sang:
	"The youth of each land for their father-land stand."
	Prest. Angus M. Cannon paid a beautiful tribute
to the labors of the pioneers, and blest the
pioneers, the Saints and the pure in this and all
other lands. The immense audience rose, and
the benediction was pronounced by President A.
M. Cannon.


