BOX ELDER STAKE.	
     The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Box Elder Stake convened in the
Tabernacle on the 12th of June, 1888, Prest.
H. A. Snow presiding.  Singing, “Great God;
attend while Zion sings.” Prayer by Prest. H.
A. Snow.  Annie Wixom acted as secretary
pro tem.  Roll called.  Minutes read and
accepted.
     Prest. Snow: “It is important that we should
comprehend our duties, that we may be a
mighty band in Zion.  If the members and
officers attend to their duties we become so
much stronger and capable to stand steadfast
and firm in the faith in the various scenes in
our lives.  The growth and management of
the Relief Society devolves on every one of
us.”
     Prest. Jane Peery, Three Mile Creek, Prest.
M. A. Hubbard, Willard, Prest. Harriet Hun-
saker, Honeyville, Coun. Jensen, Mantua,
and Prest. Harper each made excellent re-
marks, and spoke interestingly of her duties.
     Coun. Olivia Widerborg made closing re-
marks in a very wise and motherly manner.
     Singing, “How firm a foundation,” etc.
Benediction by Harriet Hunsaker.
     Afternoon session:  Singing, “O God, our
help in ages past.” Prayer by Prest. Samuel
Smith.  Singing.
     Prest. Susannah P. Booth, Coun. Robins,
Snowville, Prest. Mary Jensen, Sister Jenson
and Prest. Watkins each spoke intelligently of
the work in which she was engaged.  Emilia
D. Madsen spoke next.
     Prest. Rudger Clawson: “The Lord says He
will help those who help themselves.  My sym-
pathy is with the sisters.” Spoke of the crea-
tion. woman was necessary.  "The Lord says,
'Man is not without the woman, nor woman
without the man.’ Although our efforts may
seem small, as though we did not accomplish
much, still, if we give our whole heart to the
Lord, He will bless us and our progress is
sure.”
Bishop Tingy, Prest. S. Smith, Coun. Adolph
Madsen, Sister  Esther Goodliff, and Coun.
Charles Kelley each made timely and sugges-
tive remarks.
Prest. Snow spoke of the labor of the secre-


taries.  "They are the historians of our
branch."
	Singing, "Now let us rejoice," etc.  Benedic-
tion by Patriarch Box.
			ANNIE WIXOM, Sec. pro tem.
		MARICOPA STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society Conference of
Maricopa Stake, held at the Bowery, Mesa
City June 21st, 1888, Elizabeth G. McDonald
presiding.  The different branches of the So-
ciety were well represented; there were a num-
ber of the brethren also present.  After the
usual preliminaries of singing and prayer, the
roll was called, and minutes of previous con-
ference read and approved.
	Prest. McDonald expressed her pleasure at
again meeting in the capacity of a conference.
Desired the faith and prayers of the Saints,
that we might pass the time profitably while
together.  There were but few of us, but sup-
posed it was owing to the sickness prevailing
in our midst.  Had visited the different branches
since our last conference, and found a good
spirit prevailing.
	Presidents of the branch societies then gave
verbal reports, showing an increased zeal and 
faithfulness of the few working bees of the 
hive.  Some were always making promises of
their good intentions, attending meetings, etc.,
but scarcely ever came; while another class
were perfectly indifferent, whether the Relief
Society lived or died, as far as their help was
concerned, but upon the whole the reports were
quite favorable.
	Coun. Sarah E. Russell felt there were many 
subjects to speak upon, she scarcely knew what
to say.  Made reference to the great amount of
sickness in our midst.  "Reference has been
made to the necessity of fasting and prayer,
that the Lord would rebuke the destroyer.
Perhaps this was a judgment upon us for our
slackness in regard to our duties"  Had re-
ceived great comfort from the visits of the
teachers.
	Coun. Morris said, "Let us go to the Lord
for strength to carry us through our trials.
Felt to respond cheerfully to every call made
upon her.
	Prest. Charles I. Robson felt the importance
of the times we are living in; thought the day
was near at hand when the reign of righteous-
ness would commence upon the earth.  "How
many of us are living so that we are prepared
to cope with the power of the destroyer?"
Spoke feelingly of the spirit of infidelity which
is prevailing with our children; appealed to the
sisters to assist the brethren in checking this in
our midst.  Could trace it in a great measure
to our schools as they were taught; suggested
having schools of our own, where the princi-
ples of the Gospel could be taught.  "Our
children are our glory.  What sorrow to the 
fond parent to see his children growing up in
infidelity, without the power to check it.  Sis-
ters, visit the sick, and comfort them, speak
cheering words and administer to their wants.
The brethren, also, should exercise faith in
God, that when they are called upon to ad-
minister to the sick, they can do so with power.
Let us live so that we can lay claim to the
promises of God unto us."
	Coun. Collings Hakes said, "We must be
consistent in our course, and practice the princi-
ples we profess."	*	*	Referred
to the spirit that governs the world.  "There
is no religion in it.  Fathers and mothers
should be awake to their duties in regard to
their children.  Let us live so that the power
of the destroyer may be rebuked in the name
of Israel's God."
	Bro. Charles Allen made reference to the
words of Apostle Thatcher—that the Lord
would continue these trials until the people
forsook their evil ways.  "These trials are for
our good, and we should acknowledge His hand

[column 2]
in them.  Let us place ourselves in a proper 
position, that the Lord will hear and answer
our prayers.  Obey the commands of God,
and our faith will be strengthened, and the de-
stroyer will pass us by."  Prayed the Lord to
bless us, and give us hearts to understand our
duties.
	Bro. Martin bore testimony to the truth of
what had been said; had had many testimonies
of the truth of this work.
     Prest. E. McDonald felt that we had truly
had a feast.  Gave counsel to the sisters to
have a care in their remarks before their child-
ren, and not sow the seeds of infidelity in their 
hearts.  "Be careful how you speak of your
neighbors before them."  Asked the Lord's
blessing upon us, that we might increase in
good works.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "Think gently of the erring one."
Benediction by C. I. Robson.
