One of Shem Betty Lou Martin ARGO Williams stepped M down from the ladder where she had been hanging curtains. Sighing, she surveyed her work approvingly. "Moving is always such a job," she speculated to herself. "I haven't minded it so much this time. With Robert out of town all of the time, at least it gives me something to do." Ever since Margo could remember, she had been alone. She had been an only child, and when she had married, they had hoped for children. However, the doctor had informed Margo and her husband, Robert, that they would never be able to have any children, and Margo had resigned herself to being alone. Robert's job took him out of the city during the week; consequently, they looked forward to their week ends together. The Williams had only moved to Harpersville a week ago, and Margo hadn't had an opportunity to become acquainted with anyone. She was a shy, retiring person who found it difficult to make the first move toward becoming acquainted with her neighbors. 'Thus, to her husband's chagrin, she kept to herself most of the time. Margo peered out the window questioningly as she observed the women walking toward the chapel down the block. They were neatly dressed and seemed happy and content. "I wonder where they are going?' Margo mused. Last 'Tuesday they went by here at this same time.' She turned from the window and became engrossed in putting away some of their books. The next morning Margo was hanging some bedding out to air when a woman called to her. "Good morning. I'm Evelyn Christensen, your new neighbor. I wanted to come over and see you last week, but my husband insisted that I at least wait until you were a little more settled." "Hello," Margo said somewhat shyly. "I'm Margo Williams." "Tm certain that you'll enjoy the neighborhood once you become acquainted. We've lived here for four years and we certainly enjoy it. I wanted to ask you to go to Relief Society with us yesterday, but I thought maybe you would rather get things put away first." Evelyn smiled as she spoke. "Relief Society? I don't believe that I know what you mean," Margo answered, "Oh, Pm sorry. I guess that I just took it for granted that you were L. D. S. You see I belong to the Latter-day Saint Church, and we women have an organization called the Relief Society. It's truly wonderful, and it has so much to offer. If you'd care to go, I'd love to have you come along," Evelyn ended sincerely. Margo was happy at the kindness of Evelyn Christensen as the days passed. She enjoyed talking to her and forgot her own shyness. She found herself telling Evelyn about her loneliness. For the first time in years, Margo felt that she had found a true friend, one who was sincerely interested in her. When the next Tuesday came, Margo dressed carefully for the ocPage