Literature Comes of Age Lesson 18 — Washington Irving, Polished Paradox Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D, Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 193-220) For Tuesday, November 15, 1960 Objective: To relate the writings of Irving to the man, and both to the dynamic beginning period of the Nation out of which they grew. ASHINGTON Irving, who became one of America's first cultural ambassadors to Europe, was born into a wealthy New York City merchant family, April 3, 1783. Although it was an age of patternmaking and expansion in every phase of the new Nation's existence, and although Irving became the first universally accepted literary symbol of the United States, yet never did he symbolize those driving forces which, in his own day, were at work to make his country unique and great. Everywhere read and _ enjoyed, acclaimed and loved, he was Mr. American Literature, Gentleman, both creator and symbol, yet the world his writings created was one of memory, legend, and_ security. America's real world was one of action, of reality, of destiny, and futurity; and it was increasingly to become one of conflict. This world Washington Irving — successfully avoided both in literature as in life. Between these divergent worlds, lie contradictions of a new Nation erupting into an identity which many of its citizens feared, others even refused to face. Yet then, as now, music and scene, gentle humor and soothing dream provide their own peculiar delights. Nor are these enduring values to be refused any more in our own nuclear age than they were Page 552 during the decades of momentous decisions and transitions which Irving could have known, but chose to ignore. In fairness we must esteem Irving for his considerable virtues, and for the great enjoyments still to be found in his early works. In literature he came as near to being America's patron saint as anyone; esteemed by his own age, he still yields gentle pleasure and _ lasting charm to our own. Background Historical Events Irving's seventy-six years made the grand span from the Revolution, which first gave the new Nation identity, to the Civil War, which so nearly destroyed it. On April 10, 1783, sixteen days after Irving's birth, Washington read to his troops the proclamation of Congress ordering "cessation of hostilities." A few months later British troops marched out of Irving's home town of New York after seven years of occupation. When Irving was five, the Constitution was ratifed (1788). Thirteen years later Jefferson became President (1801), followed by the Louisiana Purchase in two years. In 1807, Fulton's steamboat confounded _ Irving's beloved Hudson River folk, and from 1812-1815 there was the War of 1812 with England, Irving serving briefly on the staff of the Governor of New York. In 1820, when LESSON DEPARTMENT he was thirty-seven, the Missouri Compromise temporarily appeased the South on the slavery question, in 1823 the Monroe Doctrine startled the world, and, in 1825, the Erie Canal opened fertile interior lands to colonization. In 1831 the first steam locomotive run was made in New York State; five years later Morse invented the telegraph; the Mexican War began in 1846; followed by the Gold Rush to California. Commodore Perry opened trade with Japan in 1854; and in 1859 oil was discovered. On November 28 of the same year Irving died at Sunnyside, his tranquil country estate in 'Tarrytown on the Hudson. The Essential Irving Such events were of Irving's world, yet not in it, at least not imaginatively. Heir to a prosperous family hardware business which he hated less when it failed, "reading" in a law office just long enough to acquire a permanent distaste for dry legalities and an abhorrence of political strife, Irving's nearest approach to contemporary problems was to lose large sums in steamboat, western land, and South American mine speculations; later he found satisfaction in having brought together in peaceful arbitration the American Ambassador to the Court of St. James and British diplomats when, in 1846, the two countries were perilously near war over their differences in defining the northern boundary of Oregon. A handsome young man with light brown hair, blue eyes, and a pleasantly husky voice both smooth and modulated, Irving was described as "Friendliness itself." Believing 553 throughout his life that "a kind heart is the fountain of gladness, making everything in its vicinity to freshen into smiles, and that happiness is reflective like the light of Heaven," he dedicated his life to the pleasure of giving pleasure to others. In his travels during his mature years, and lengthy selfexiles to Europe, he considered himself a self-appointed ambassador of good will. Refusing to dwell on the rough and cruel part of life, he felt that good humor was "the oil and wine for a merry meeting." He loved little children, often playing with them for hours on end, and wrote lengthy letters concerning them. He was so modest and shy that when the famous English traveler, Mrs. Frances 'Trollope, spotted him in the audience of the Cincinnati theatre in which she was lecturing and asked him for an impromptu speech, he fled both the theatre and the town itself rather than comply. In the years of his semi-retirement at Sunnyside, his life continued as it had always been: with many visits from friends, close ties with his nieces and family, horseback rides in the country, regular attendance at operas and plays, whist, chess, reading, and writing. These were the important values in his personal life — mild, peaceful, harmful to none. In his life, as in his writings, he had "always had an opinion that much good might be done by keeping mankind in good humor with one another." So successfully did he mold his life to this ideal that, save for Franklin alone, he was most widely loved by his countrymen. Irving, the Traveler From his seventeenth year, when 554 he made his first extended trip up his beloved Hudson River Valley, Irving secmed happiest when he traveled. A painter with words, he sought scenes of beauty, finding it most abundantly in the exotic and the old, which, with extreme care and polish, he recreated into his sharply chiseled prose. Adored and pampered by his family, he was sent to Europe at age twenty-one to gain "health, education and_ pleasure," which, during the next two years, he found in abundance. Returning to America, he toyed with the law and magazine editing, then, in 1815 at age thirty-eight, he went to Europe for a Mediterranean cruise and remained for seventeen years. Again, in 1841, he returned to romantic Spain as American Ambassador for four years. The last thirteen years of his hfe he spent at his home Sunnyside. Irving enjoyed creating the illusion that he lived a leisurely, casual, bachelor existence. Actually, Longfellow saw him truly when, calling upon him during his first long stay in Madrid, he gave the impression of "always being at work." In his travels, he was always the self-conscious literary man with a sharp eye for material suitable for his pen. In his writings he had excellent technical powers, which are everywhere evident in his carefully revised prose; but he had little creative impulse so, as his bosom friend Henry Brevoort wrote, "He makes his travels go far," as is beautifully exemplified in "