In its halting progress toward certain truths and purposes, family case work has failed to arrest the attention of a public too long accustomed to regard family work as a necessary agent to be supported in order that the miseries of the poor should be less obtrusive and therefore less burdensome upon the consciences of the well-to-do. This public had long regarded family case work as an unvarying process of relieving want. That the process should ever vary, that the methods should constantly shift and change, that the tools should be mobile and alive it had never guessed. That other wants than those of the body were the concern of family case work the public was totally unaware.
In the field of education the need for individual evaluation and individual instruction has been widely stressed. Bewildered and anxious parents have accepted the teachings of mental hygiene and have carried individualization of the child to dizzy heights. It is because of the inarticulateness of the family case worker that these eager parents who constitute her public have found no parallel between the processes within their homes and the processes by which family case work seeks, through individualization of families and the members thereof, to meet their varying needs.
Yet this necessity for individualization which has so lately dawned upon the school was one of the earliest discoveries of the family case worker, who learned that while the doctor might say of all cases of measles—"Light is bad for the eyes," she might make no such sweeping generalization for families under her care. Hers were no mere physical facts. They were the intangibles which lay upon the wide horizon of the spirit. She must take into consideration the thousand influences which may have shaped these lives—as one sister interpreted her brother's broken home to the worker—"He never knew a home in childhood. He grew up in an orphan asylum. He is not bad, nor intentionally careless. He simply does not know what things are necessary to make a home."
Public opinion has been patient with the medical profession in its trials and failures, in its gropings to discover better ways to control disease, in its searchings for more knowledge of its cause and cure. Throughout all time it has had faith that medical skill would one day find cure for cancer as it has found means to stamp out the scourge of yellow fever. It has had understanding of the discouragements in discovering the nature of disease, the sacrificing hours of labor, the bitter defeats. It is probably due to the failure of the social worker to interpret herself and her job that this same public remains so densely unaware of the intensely interesting pursuit of wisdom in solving problems of human relationships—baffling—illusive—mysterious—destructive or constructive forces, defining human destiny, shaping human ends.
The unloved child who came to woman's estate with passionate longing for affection, giving herself to the first man who offered a cheap substitute for love—the young wife who turned on the gas and lay quietly down to die because her husband shut himself away from her in bitter brooding, victim of a childhood's inhibitions—the man who had grown up hating his younger brother who had come to rob his infancy of accustomed adulation, and whose parents were not wise enough to bridge the gap between the little newcomer and their first-born child—the frustrated man who as a bright boy of twelve left school to support his deserting father's family.
Popular idea has never confined the area of medical practice to any class or type. There has been no lack of understanding of the need for such practice among the lowly or the richly endowed, the stupid or the brilliant, the vulgar or the super-refined. "Death and disease are no respecters of persons." Here, again, the family case worker has failed to interpret her clients to the public, not as a separate and distinct unit of society, but as people, like themselves, with the same potentialities, the same frailties, the same desires, the same emotional qualities—often with unrealized abilities like unto their own—people to whom things have happened which might happen to any one of us—as to the man with the broken back, translated, by this misfortune alone, from an independent citizen into a man asking alms for his children.
Interrupted in her intense preoccupation with individuals, disturbed in her first faltering attempts to make her public see them and her task, the family worker finds herself today fulfilling for the public its only conception of her aim and function. She has become prominent in the public eye as a dispenser of alms. She has taken on a new importance for this passing hour. She will be remembered for a time for her part in feeding the destitute, while she sees, farther in the distance, her dawning hope for understanding, not as a dispenser of alms, but as an eager student of the causes and cures for ailments beyond the province of the medical profession—of another field, though kindred to it; calling, too, for science, for research, for knowledge; offering a challenge; promising a reward—the reward which one receives who has cut a new path in an uncharted region.
What wonder that the family worker should look broodingly upon the already apparent ugly results of wide-spread misery; what wonder that she, accustomed to evaluate the effects upon human beings of hurts and wrongs, of dissatisfactions and injustices, should look beyond the agony of this day to the horror of tomorrow! Effects—of hunger; effects—of fear; effects—of the bitter taste of charity! What wonder that she should resent for these, her people, the situation, which has swept away independence; broken pride; engendered bitterness; endangered health; threatened reason! What wonder that she should raise her voice in passionate protest against the waste and utter uselessness of this economic debacle!
She turns away from the picture to contemplate again that spirit of neighborliness which exists among the poor and is a constant reproach to the selfishness which forgets that it was by mutual effort and mutual sharing that we founded in this new land a great nation. She finds some sense of peace in sharing with her people her faith in ultimate justice, her belief that beneath greed and selfishness there is stirring something tender and beautiful, which in common parlance we call Love.