"The conviction is continually deepened that hospitals are the only places where insane persons can be at once humanely and properly controlled. Poorhouses converted into madhouses cease to effect the purposes for which they were established, and instead of being asylums for the aged, the homeless, and the friendless, and places of refuge for orphaned or neglected childhood, are transformed into perpetual bedlams."
Miss Dix's petition was referred to a committee of the legislature, of which Samuel Gridley Howe was fortunately the chairman. Dr. Howe's committee strongly endorsed the Dix indictment and recommended a bill, which later carried by a large majority, authorizing two hundred additional beds at the Worcester State Hospital.
III
MISS DIX followed this same procedure, with equal success, in several other states. Her belief was that only by creating more and better hospitals, staffed with well-trained physicians of high character, could the imperative needs of the insane be met. The success of these legislative endeavors was due not only to her zeal but also to her ability to choose wise and influential spokesmen for her reform measures. Many of the outstanding men of her day endorsed her proposals. In England, for example, where she was little known, she had the support of William Rathbone, of Lord Shaftesbury and of Dr. Daniel Hack Tuke. She could appeal to men of eminence with the same ease and success that she approached men of wealth.
Her conception of the importance of her cause, and the strategy which she employed to promote it, are strikingly revealed in her proposal to Congress to set aside 12,225,000 acres of public domain, ten million acres for the benefit of the insane, the remainder for the blind, deaf and dumb. According to her biographer, Tiffany, it was the sight of greedy adventurers besieging Congress for grants of land which first gave her the idea of seeking federal aid. Congress had, in fact, already made liberal grants of public lands for educational purposes, and later, in aid of two "seminaries" for the deaf and the dumb. The insane? In a characteristic "memorial", Miss Dix prayed Congress in 1848 for a grant of 5,000,000 acres of land "for the relief and support of the indigent curable and incurable insane in the United States." The petition, as usual, contained a devastating array of facts, in the accumulation of which she had traveled sixty thousand miles in twenty-seven of the thirty states in the Union.
"Why not for I have myself seen more than nine thousand idiots, epileptics, and insane, in these United States, destitute of appropriate care and protection; and of this vast and most miserable company, sought out in jails, in poorhouses, and in private dwellings, there have been hundreds, nay, rather thousands bound with galling chains, bound beneath fetters and heavy iron balls, attached to drag-chains, lacerated with ropes, scourged with rods, and terrified beneath storms of profane execrations and cruel blows; now subject to jibes and scorn and torturing kicks—now abandoned to the utmost loathsome necessities, or the subject of the vilest and most outrageous violations. ... I proceed to verify this assertion, commencing with the State of Maine. ..."
At the session of 1848-9 a bill was introduced in the House of Representatives but it never came to a vote. Miss Dix renewed her request in 1850, this time asking for the 12,225,000 acres. This second bill passed the Senate but failed in the House. With characteristic persistence she made a third attempt, in 1854, with the amazing result that the bill passed both houses of Congress with substantial majorities. Like a thunder bolt out of a clear sky, however, President Franklin Pierce vetoed the bill, giving as his reason the impropriety of the Federal Government "assuming to enter into a novel and vast field of legislation." True to his ultra-democratic leanings, he said:
"I cannot find any authority in the Constitution for making the Federal Government the great almoner of public charity throughout the United States. To do so would, in my judgment, be contrary to the letter and spirit of the Constitution, and subversive of the whole theory upon which the Union of these States is founded."
The failure to secure federal aid for the insane was, of course, almost a death blow to Miss Dix who, when she recovered from the shock, renewed her labors for the mentally handicapped in England and on the Continent.
IV
IN view of the recent practice of the Federal Government in extending aid to the states for various purposes, it seems not too much to say that President Pierce's position was extreme and conservative. It is hard to conceive the tremendous advances in the care of the insane which might have ensued if federal assistance had thus been granted. However, the phenomenal spread of the state hospital movement throughout the nation was itself an achievement of the first magnitude. It was, in fact, the second high-water mark of modern times in raising the standards of care for the mentally diseased. The first humanitarian achievement in this field dates back to the work of Tuke in England and Pinel in France in the 1790's. Dr. Philippe Pinel, upon being appointed superintendent of La Salpêtrière in Paris, ordered his patients released from their shackles and from their cells. For much the same reason, and about the same time, William Tuke, a quaker tea merchant, established The Retreat at York as a private sanitarium wherein patients were allowed almost complete freedom. It took a long time, of course, before physical restraint was completely abolished. In fact it was not until the beginning of the present century that the straight-jacket, one of the best-known and widely used restraining devices, gave way to the continuous bath (a form of hydro-therapy) as a routine method of quieting a disturbed patient.
The present mental hygiene movement marks a third stage in the humanitarian attack on mental disorders. This particular movement was ushered in by the publication in 1908 of that remarkable book, A Mind That Found Itself, by Clifford W. Beers, an ex-patient who set out to expose the cruelties practiced on the insane in certain American hospitals. Mr. Beers, a genius at organization, enlisted the interest of men like the late Professor William James and secured funds from Mr. Henry Phipps with which to establish the Connecticut Society for Mental Hygiene in 1908. In much the same way Mr. Beers was the dynamic force largely responsible for the creation of the National Committee for Mental Hygiene, which, with a score or so of loosely affiliated state societies, has had such a profound effect upon American policies in dealing with the mentally handicapped during the past twenty years. The international scope of this movement was recently evidenced at the first world congress on mental hygiene, held in Washington, D. C., in 1930, when delegates from some forty nations reported the organization and work of mental hygiene societies in as many different countries.
The rapid growth of the mental hygiene movement is partly due to the fact that it amalgamated a number of collateral trends, each one of which had been gaining momentum independently. The geneticists, for example, had formulated the principles of human heredity which the eugenicists were quick to embody into a program of social control. Psychology, too, had been growing to the full stature of a new and independent science of human behavior, and in addition to the Binet-Simon intelligence tests, the psychologists had many useful mental hygiene suggestions to offer. The psychiatrists—notably Kraepelin in Germany and Freud in Austria—had also been adding to and systematizing their knowledge of psycho-pathology. These and many other contributions to the study and control of human behavior have been integrated into the mental hygiene movement and are now focussed by its leaders upon the distressing problems of mental ill-health.
The movement has now assumed the proportions of a tremendous social force for healthful living. Insanity, of course, is no longer its chief concern. Feeble-mindedness, epilepsy, suicide, crime, juvenile delinquency; home, school and industrial maladjustments are now among the major problems attacked. The success of its constantly enlarging scope is due to the adoption of three preventive techniques: first, the education of public opinion as to the nature and causes of mental disorder; second, the organization of child guidance clinics (of which there are some four hundred in the United States) for the scientific diagnosis and treatment of children's conduct disorders; third, the promotion of systematic research into the causes and cure of mental disorder. The New York State Psychiatric Institute, recently made an integral part of the great Medical Center in New York City, is a prophetic symbol of this last-named approach.
IT is now forty-four years ago since Dorothea Lynde Dix died at the age of eighty-five. It can be said without exaggeration that she was one of the most useful citizens and distinguished women this country has ever produced. Her monumental achievement was the foundation she laid for the mental hygiene movement. Her humanitarian interests, however, extended to several other groups and to many other forms of human misery. For example, at the outbreak of the Civil War, although nearly sixty years of age, she volunteered her services to the Federal Government and was appointed Superintendent of Nurses, a difficult post which she held until the close of the War. This was her last major undertaking. Her first venture, begun at fourteen years of age, was as a teacher. For about twenty years she devoted herself to educational work with children and to the building of a "model" school, activities which she was forced to abandon because of ill-health. During these years she also spent considerable time in improving her own education. She also wrote several children's books, one of which, Conversations on Common Things, ran through some sixty editions.
She was endowed with a tremendous drive and an indomitable will. It is possible that she felt a sense of inferiority regarding her immediate family, although her grandparents, with whom she lived during childhood and adolescence, were of "sound New England stock." It is quite likely, too, that her unhappy childhood, her poor health and her limited chances for an education all conspired to produce a personality pattern in which sympathy for the handicapped was the ruling passion.
Miss Dix was deeply religious. Moreover, she entertained a belief in her own divine mission somewhat as did Joan of Arc. In a letter to Mrs. Rathbone of Liverpool, she once wrote: "Providence seems leading me on, and He, by whose mercy I am preserved, blesses all my labors for the afflicted."