A Changed Attitude
By Inez B. Allred
ELSIE NICKELSON had sat in a dejected mood all morning. The day had started with a quarrel. Too many of their days were started that way of late and Frank had rushed out to catch his car leaving the greater part of a poorly prepared breakfast untouched on his plate. The echo from the slamming door had died down in the house, but not in Elsie's heart. Yes, she had said nasty, sarcastic things about never having enough money to spend, but it was all the truth. The hard bitter retort Frank had made, about her knowing about his financial condition not keeping her from putting the matrimonial loop around his neck was too cruel. Yet, it was she who had wanted to marry right soon after they had found each other. Frank had wanted to wait until he was in a position to give her everything she needed, but Elsie had felt that she only needed Frank and had said "she would do without everything just to be with him." Their marriage had been a happy one, but they soon discovered that it takes more than a man and a woman and love to run a house and have children on.
"Why worry," Elsie had said to herself a number of times. Nevertheless, she was worried. Never before in their six years of married life had Frank left for work without kissing her and the babies goodbye. The fact was, Elsie was trying to ease her conscience by self pity. She had succeeded so well, that the tasks of the morning had been forgotten, and her three little boys left to their own devices were making the most of their freedom by carrying the sand pile onto the front porch.
Elsie was startled out of her brooding by Junior who announced that two ladies were coming to see her. "The Relief Society Teachers," sighed Elsie as she hesitated between answering the door or the telephone, which was ringing loudly. She opened the door, excused herself and flew into the hall to the 'phone. Sister Brown was needed at home immediately. Would Sister Nickelson kindly tell her? "Yes, indeed," answered Elsie, "and I wish," she added to herself, "I had the same message for Sister Beal. Relief Society Teachers, indeed, what good do they do one anyway?"
After Sister Brown had hurried away, Sister Beal tried to deliver the Teachers' Topic which was "The Responsibility of Each Church Member to Sustain Church Organizations by Attending Meetings, etc." She did not get very far with the subject as Elsie was in no mood for the message and very frankly said so. "Go to meetings? Not with three babies under five years of age. No they could not afford a girl to tend them. If they could there were a number of things she needed more than she needed Relief Society meetings. She thought her first duty was to her children." And then indulging in a wave of self pity, Elsie poured out her grievances against her husband. "If I had a car I could take the children into the country once or twice a week, but Frank simply will not listen to us getting one on the installment plan. We quarreled again this morning over it. We can afford one just as well as a number of our friends, but Frank will not listen, not even when I try to show him how much it would mean to the babies. He says it is my pride being pinched, the kiddies are happy and would much rather have something when they are grown." Elsie turned her face away to hide tears of hurt pride from her listener.
Sister Beal, feeling that Elsie needed an understanding friend who could help her out of her obsession of self-pity sat very still listening and silently praying for inspiration that she might be a Relief Society Teacher in very deed. With a few carefully put questions she learned that Brother Nickelson was in line for a district managership for his company and was working overtime to learn the business. "Yes," Elsie admitted, "he was a very indulgent husband and had promised her a car just as soon as he could afford one. He had a natural abhorrence of debt. He says, 'It brings more sorrow than happiness and one cannot buy enough conveniences with it to pay for the distress of mind an honest man feels when he meets his creditors'."
Sister Beal very tactfully told Elsie of some of the sacrifices she had had to make as a young wife. "You know, dear," she said, "behind every successful man is a good woman. I love to think of such women as the wife of Nathaniel Hawthorne. He had a job in the Customs House in Boston. A change in political parties left him jobless. He went home to that good wife expecting her to voice disappointment. He was surprised to hear her say, 'How glad I am you can now write the book you have been planning.' 'But how', he asked, 'How can we live while I write?' She proudly displayed money enough to keep them a few months, which she had saved out of her household allowance. She gave Hawthorne his chance and he gave the world The Scarlet Letter. That is one reason I enjoy the Literary Lessons in our meetings. We learn how others met and solved the problems of life which we are now solving. Longfellow should have written, 'Lives of Great Women all remind us'," she laughingly said as she bade Elsie good bye, telling her to be of good cheer and she knew she would some day realize her heart's desire. With a man like Frank Nickelson she could not fail if she did her part.
Elsie sat perfectly still for a long time after Sister Beal left. She was thinking, thinking, but not of herself now. For the first time she was seeing things from Frank's point of view. The expense of the three babies, especially the last time when Trevor came so nearly dying and she was kept at the hospital for weeks with flu pneumonia. Frank had given up his chances for a promotion at that time because he would not leave the city while she was ill. She had taken it for granted that he did not mind, because he had said nothing. She realized now that he must have suffered keen disappointment and was silent to spare her. Her heart filled with pity and love for the man who had gone through disappointment and expense and has met both uncomplainingly. She knew that he had borrowed to meet the last emergency. How ashamed she felt. Frank had never hesitated to go in debt to save her and their child. Now she would ruin him to satisfy her false pride. That she might make a showing as some of her friends were doing. "Oh, how," Elsie asked herself, "do we lose sight of true values and acquire such ideals?" "Poor Frank, I have been the proverbial mill stone around his neck. Now I must think of ways and means of helping him."
Her first act was to take a bag of undarned stockings from the closet. She had used the excuse of the baby taking all her time, for putting them away one pair at a time to be darned sometime in the future. It was so much easier to buy new ones. Now she must mend these and not buy another pair until they were worn out. Elsie was shocked to find eleven pair of silk hose, not one pair a year old. "Sixteen dollars and fifty cents for stockings just for me," gasped Elsie, "on our income." For a moment she felt giddy. She wondered how Frank got any hose at all and how he had managed to pay for what the babies had.
After feeding the babies she threw some pillows on the floor for them and settled down with them around her for an afternoon of darning. Elsie was a good story teller and soon the three children were sleeping. She had finished most of her stockings and had a good dinner ready when Frank returned from work. She was glad that he did not refer to the morning. She was more than willing to call it a closed chapter, besides she did not care to talk about her new resolves until she was sure she could live up to her own desires. But she was happier than she had been for months. Her stories had drawn the children closer to her. Her mother heart had been made glad by their smiles and requests for another and another.
Sister Beal never visited the Nickelson home again. She was called to be president of the Relief Society and heard after a short time that Brother Nickelson had gotten a promotion and had moved to his new field of labor.
After ten years of faithful service to her ward, the Bishop had released Sister Beal from her duties as president of the Relief Society. The sisters of the society had given her a lovely party and presented her with a set of books that she had long desired to own. She had returned from the party feeling happy that she had been released from her labors. She could now do some of the things she had longed to do, for instance she meant to read to her heart's content. Taking her mail she slipped out to her garden where she could be alone. One letter attracted her attention. The hand writing was unfamiliar and the post mark did not enlighten her as to whom it could be from. She broke the seal and read the letter through, then she re-read it, wiping tears of joy from her eyes as she did so, and again the third time she read—
"Dear Sister Beal: Do not let this letter surprise you too much. I have been going to write for a long, long time. Do you remember one day years ago coming to my house as a Relief Society District Teacher? Surely you do. How could you forget how resentful and unkind I acted. I was hardly civil to you. But Dear Sister Beal, I had a change of attitude that day which I think is the contributing factor in my husband's present success. It is to you I owe the awakening which came to me that day. Do you remember how I was letting a few selfish desires blind me to the really worthwhile things in life? The beautiful story you told me of how Mrs. Hawthorne had helped her husband and other things you said that day caused me to right about face. I resolved to forget myself in service for others and see if it would bring the happiness which you said it would. I have proven your words to be true. I gave myself wholeheartedly to my new resolve. It was not easy at times because I had acquired the bad habit of thinking of myself, but with effort I succeeded in thinking of others and seeing things as they did.
"As you know we moved soon after you were made president of the Relief Society. Mr. Nickelson got his promotion and has been going steadily forward until he is now First Vice President of his company. I have had more than my share of the good things of life.
"We have three more lovely children and count them our greatest blessings. The three little boys you remember, are all quite grown up. Junior is in his Senior year in High School and we hope to send him to the State University next Winter. The greatest joy that comes to me is my husband's recognition of my efforts and the credit he gives me for his success.
"He often tells Junior he will have to go some to get a girl that will be the help mate his mother has been. It is obvious by Junior's smile that he can think of a dozen girls he would rather have for a life partner than mother. That is as it should be and detracts not at all from my husband's appreciation. And to think that I came so nearly letting my married life be wrecked.
"I do not approve of a wife flying the matrimonial flag of distress, but I am truly glad mine was waving that day you called, for you were like a lighthouse and pointed out the dangers ahead. I had never told Frank what caused the change in my attitude toward life until the other evening while we were reading the Bible I said the passage 'II Cor. 5:15. And that he died for all that they which lived should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him which died for them and rose again.' Made me think of you and then I told him of your unselfish service; how you were living not for self but for others and how you had brought me a message that had saved me from living unto myself. He said, 'Elsie, do you think the sisters who go around teaching realize the good they do? I think you should write Sister Beal and let her know that her efforts have been successful as far as one family goes. If you don't I may do so myself,' he added.
"My husband joins me in this little expression of our love and appreciation for your life of service.
"Sincerely, "Elsie Nickelson."
At this point Sister Beal heard her daughter explaining to a neighbor that she did not know what mother would ever do without her Relief Society work. "Without my Relief Society work," said Sister Beal to herself. "I will not do without it. There is plenty of Relief Society work to do besides being President. I will be a district teacher again." "After all they have the greatest opportunity for doing good."