Happenings
By Annie Wells Cannon
HAPPY NEW YEAR! There's an optimistic sound in the good old phrase—like sunshine bursting through a cloud, like dew drops glistening on a faded leaf, like smiles shining through tears in a little child's eyes. It means a lot, this pleasant phrase—hope and faith and courage for the coming days. It speaks of joy, not fear in anticipation. Again and again, A Happy New Year.
MRS. HATTIE CARAWAY, Senator from Arkansas finds herself very much at home in the United States Senate. Mrs. Caraway was the close adviser of her husband on all important matters during his incumbency as Senator, and is well posted on political questions, a popular speaker before women's clubs and well qualified for political office. Once before a woman, Mrs. Felton, "Georgia's Grand Old Lady", occupied a seat in the Senate by appointment for one day. The Senate has long been held as man's last political stronghold. Now that the barriers are down other states may find their daughters just as capable for the honors of the senatorial toga as their sons.
THE House with the Green Shutters. Such is the designation of the home of Mary Roberts Rinehart. The house in its beautiful setting on Massachusetts Avenue in the Nation's Capitol is one of the points of interest to the passerby among the many lovely homes along that historic street, lined as it is with the magnificent homes of foreign ambassadors. Mrs. Rinehart is one woman who has satisfactorily proven that a smart woman can successfully combine a career and motherhood. The popularity of her stories, short and long, is far exceeded by the popularity of her own personality. Neither her work nor the many social requirements made upon her has overshadowed the delight of her beautiful home life.
DORIS STEVENS of Woman's party fame has been nominated for membership in the American Institute of International Law. Miss Stevens is the first woman ever named for the international juridical body which numbers five persons from each of the 21 American republics. She is the chairman of the Inter-American Commission of Women.
"AMERICAN BEAUTY" is the title of Edna Ferber's latest novel and while some critics think it, as well as "Show Boat" and "Cimarron," were just written for the pictures, such an authority as Dr. Phelps says it is a novel of high distinction.
A NOVEL in verse is the latest effort of Alice Duer Miller. It is tragic and thrilling. The idea of story telling in verse while not new is in this day unusual. The story is called "Forsaking All Others."
SHORTER hours and better pay for women are advocated by Mary Anderson, Chief of the Federal Woman's Bureau, as an investment for national prosperity.