	SISTERS PRESENDIA L. KIMBALL and Zina
D. H. Young attended the Conference of the
Relief Societies of Davis Stake, held at Centre-
ville, Friday, January 19th. Mrs. Nancy A.
Clark, presiding.

	IN the notice of the death of Sister Artemisia
Snow published Dec. 1, issue of our paper, a ty-
pographical error occurs, which we feel it a duty
to correct. The mistake is in her age. Sister
Snow was born in 1819, and not in 1810, as be-
fore published.

	WE have received, by courtesy of friends in
Washington, several copies of the "Evening
Critic" and "Washington Post," containing full
accounts of the N. W. S. A. Convention recent-
ly held in that city, and the resolutions adopted
during its session, from which we expect to
make some selections for our next paper, as they
came too late for this issue.

	THE entertainment in the Twentieth Ward


Schoolhouse on Thursday evening, January 25,
was, we understand, a most enjoyable affair.
The Institute finished, on that day, the first de-
cade. Speeches were made, songs, recitations
and brief lectures given; some sweet music was
rendered and a manuscript paper, "The Index,"
was read. After the exercises the guests par-
took of refreshments and the whole was followed
with dancing. The house was crowded, invita-
tions having been given to many outside the
Ward. We acknowledge with pleasure the in-
vitation extended to us, but were not able to at-
tend on account of a previous engagement.

	ON Friday, January 19th, the first annual
meeting of the Seventh Ward Primary Associa-
tion, of this city, was held in the Ward Meeting
House, Mrs. Minnie H. James, presiding. Bishop
Thorne and Counselor McLachlan were pres-
ent, Mrs. M. A. Needham, President of the
Relief Society, and other members of the Ward.
The annual report and treasurer's report were
read by the secretary, which showed the Asso-
ciation to be in a prosperous condition. The in-
crease in numbers during the year had been 41;
decrease, 14. The exercises were excellently
well rendered, and the selections were in good
taste. The first was a song by Miss Minnie
Funk; next, "Nearer my God to Thee," by six
little girls; recitiation, Master Samuel Andrews;
dialogue by seven little girls, about a bonnet;
recitation by Master Leo Foster; dialogue by
three little boys and one girl, on smoking; song,
Miss Mary Alice Woodbury; recitation, Miss
Lizzie James; organ solo by Miss Alice Lambert
finished the programme. During the year past,
one of the Counselors, Mrs. Jane James, had
been removed by death, and the Primary has
increased in numbers so that it was thought ad-
visable to appoint two more Counselors to assist
the President in her labor of love. Two Sisters
had been selected and Sister Eliza R. S. Smith
officiated in the nominating and Mrs. Maggie W.
Young and Mrs. Louie Woodbury were unani-
mously sustained as Counselors to aid Sisters
James and Broadbent in the work in which they
have been so efficiently laboring the past year.
Brief addresses were made by Sisters Eliza R. S.
Smith, Louie Felt, Ellen C. Clawson, and E. B.
Wells. Bishop Thorne made a few remarks ex-
pressing his pleasure, and Counselor McLach-
lan pronounced the benediction. This Primary
is one of the best conducted we have ever
visited.


