DIVINITY OF THE BIBLE.

	A short time ago I was asked by a lady if
I really believed the Bible to be a divinely in-
spired book, and not merely the writings and
wisdom of men alone. I was somewhat sur-
prised at the question coming from the source
it did, for though I had heard men ridicule and
mock the idea of its being of sacred origin it
was the first time I had ever heard it doubted
by a woman. To me it bears on its pages the
seal of its divinity, is its own strong witness,
and viewed in connection with the signs of the
times as they are transpiring daily before our
eyes, it seems to me there is no possible room
for doubt, that the blindest of the blind might
see if they would, but there are none so blind and
hopeless as those who will not look, who reso-
lutely close their eyes for fear they might per-
chance see and have to believe.
	In thinking on this subject events recorded
in the Bible, scenes therein portrayed pass be-
fore me as a grand panorama, and for me to
doubt would be unpardonable sacrilege. The
account of the creation, the council of Gods,
their decision and the accomplishment of their
designs and labors goes far beyond anything
man, by his wisdom alone, has ever produced.
Although somewhat changed and marred by
the handling of uninspired men, there is enough
of the beauty and perfection of the design, of
the plan of salvation, and a wisdom so far
superior to anything we can fiud in man, that
we must look beyond him for its origin, and
the light of the spirit of its great Author will
enable us to read and understand aright, to
partially see its magnificence, but all its glory
is beyond the conception of mortal sight.
	The leading down into Egypt of Joseph and
his father's house, the building up from them
of a great nation, their bondage, deliverance,
and travels in the wilderness is marvelous
work and a wonder, beyond the powers of man
to even imitate. The book of Psalms, Proverbs,
etc., bear too plainly on their pages the stamp
of inspiration to be doubted by any honest
heart, and when we turn to the Revelations
therein contained, to the prophecies of the
Prophets, and see how they have been and are
being fulfilled the blindness of the world is a
marvel, and seemingly their ignorance unpar-
donable, because willful and unnecessary; but
"they love darkness rather than light, be-
cause their deeds are evil." And when we
turn to the record of Jesus, his teachings and
works on earth, his crucifixion and resurre


tion, words fail. Well might Josephus doubt
"if it were lawful to call him a man." Take
that one great sermon on the Mount, plain,
simple, yet containing more in a few sentences
than volumes of the writings of the most
learned of men, principles that if lived up to
would enable us to become saints of God in
deed; but I fear that a life time of earnest
study and endeavor will not be enough to en-
able us to reach the standard of perfection
pointed out by Jesus to his followers that day
on the Mount.					HOPE.


