BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	There seemed an overruling providence in
the Apostles being away at the time of the
martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum, for the
time had come for them to seal their testimony
with their blood. If the Twelve had been
there they would never have permitted them
to recross the river into Illinois, much less to
be given up, as they were, quietly and without
a struggle into the hands of a bloodthirsty
mob. The news of their death fell like a
thunderbolt upon the Saints and sped like wild-
fire throughout the land, and a terrible fear
took possession of the people. Believing that
the "Mormons" would seek revenge, many of
them fled from the county.
	President Brigham Young and Orson Pratt
were at Salem, N. H., when the rumor first
met them. They went to Peterboro, where
they heard it confirmed by a letter from
Nauvoo, written by a Mr. Powers, giving par-
ticulars of their assassination. They started im-
mediately for Boston to meet my father and
Wilford Woodruff, who had also heard the
dreadful news. A council was then held
relative to their return to Nauvoo. They felt
that the Saints were as sheep without a shep-
herd. Brigham and father waited there one
week for Apostle Lyman Wight. As soon as
he arrived they started for home. Brothers
Orson Hyde, Orson Pratt and Wilford Wood-
ruff joining them at Albany. They arrived at
Nauvoo on the 6th day of August, 1844.
	As is well known, Sidney Rigdon, who had
shirked his duties and moved with his family
to Pittsburg some time previous to Joseph’s
death, took advantage of the absence of the
majority of the Twelve, to hasten to Nauvoo
to lay claim to the guardianship of the
Church, claiming to have had a vision from
the Lord concerning them, which he related
at his first appearance before a congregation
of the Saints, saying that he was the identical
man whom the Prophets had sung about,
wrote about, and rejoiced over in every pre-
ceding generation, etc.
	Elder Parley P. Pratt remarked, "I am the
identical man the Prophets never sung nor
wrote a word about." I was one of the listen-
ers, and I think that very few of the Saints
felt that Sidney Rigdon, who had deserted his
post when Joseph stood most in need of him,
was "the man whom the Lord had called" for
a shepherd to lead His sheep, in this the sad-
dest and darkest hour of their experience.
	A day was appointed by Marks, the pres-
ident of the stake, for a special conference to
choose a guardian. Bros. Willard Richards,
Parley P. Pratt, John Taylor and George
A. Smith were opposed to this hasty step, and
the former counseled the Saints not to be in
a hurry, but to wait till the Twelve Apostles
returned, and "ask wisdom of God." Elder
Rigdon evaded these men, as if unwilling to
come in contact with them, until he was forced
to meet them in council. He was a very ex-
citable man, and upon this occasion he paced
the room as he gave utterance to the

[Column 2]
following: "Gentlemen, you are used up;
gentlemen, you are divided, the anti-Mor-
mons have got you; the brethren are voting
every way, some for James, some for Deming,
some for Coulson, and some for Bedill. The
anti-Mormons have got you; you can’t stay in
the country; every thing is in confusion; you
can do nothing. You lack a great leader; you
want a head; and unless you unite upon that
head, you’re blown to the four winds." The
anti-Mormons will carry the election;, a guar-
dian must be appointed."
	There was no division among the brethren,
as Bro. George A. Smith there assured them,
and that Elder Rigdon was entirely mistaken,
saying, "the election would be unanimous, and
the friends of law and order will be elected
by a thousand majority. There is no occasion
to be alarmed. Brother Rigdon is inspiring
fears there are no grounds for."
	The second day after the Apostle’s return
to Nauvoo, President Brigham Young called a
special conference, to give Elder Rigdon the
opportunity to lay his claims before the Church.
Meetings were then held in a grove some
little distance east of the Temple, where a
great multitude gathered together; for this day
—was to decide who was to "lead Israel,"
Sidney Rigdon, or the Twelve Apostles. That
was a day never to be forgotten. I was
among the number that was obliged to stand,
it being impossible for half of the congrega-
tion to be seated. Mr. Hatch, a young lawyer,
whom I had formed acquaintance with at our
theatre the Spring previous, stood by me.
We had been on pleasant terms, but lately he
had turned Rigdonite, and frequently, during
that long harangue, he spoke in defence and
praise of the speaker, and tried to convince
me that he was the right man to lead the
Church. He very quickly learned my feel-
ings, and how offensive he had made himself.
My father was seated there with Brigham
and the rest of the Apostles, and I became
very indignant, and quite a war of words en-
sued, neither of us (of course) yielding the
point. N long after this he married one of
Rigdon’s daughters, which proved to be the only
loadstone that attracted him in that direction.
	At 2 p. m. the congregation again con-
vened to hear President Brigham Young.
He asked them the following questions in be-
half of the Twelve and the people:	*	*	*
"Inasmuch as our Prophet and Patriarch are
taken from our midst, do you want some one
to guard, to guide, and lead you through this
world into the kingdom of God, or not? All
who want some person to be a guardian, or a
prophet, a spokesman, or something, else, sig-
nify it by raising the right hand." (No votes.)
He said, "If any man thinks he has influence
among this people, to lead away a party, let
him try it, and he will find out that there is
power with the Apostles, which will carry them
off victorious through all the world, and
build up and defend the Church and kingdom
of God.	*	*	*	*	Brother Rigdon has
come 1,600 miles to tell you what he wants
to do for you. If the people want Brother
Rigdon to lead them, they may have him, but
I say unto you, the Twelve have the keys of
the kingdom of God in all the world."
	"The Twelve are pointed out by the finger
of God. Here is Brigham, have his knees
ever faltered? Have his lips ever quivered?
Here is Heber and the rest of the Twelve; an
independent body, who have the keys of the
Priesthood, the keys of the kingdom of God
to deliver to all the world. This is true, so
help me God! They stand next to Joseph,
and are as the first presidency of the Church.
I do not know whether my enemies will take
my life or not, and I do not care, for I want
to be with the man I love."	*	*	*	*
	"Brother Joseph, the prophet, has laid the
foundation of a great work and we will build

[Column 3]
upon it.	*	*	There is an Almighty foundation
laid, and we can build a kingdom such as there
never was in the world; we can build a kingdom
faster than Satan can kill the Saints off."
	I merely copy these few paragraphs to show
whether the keys of the kingdom were held
by the Twelve Apostles or by Sidney Rigdon.
The latter, sorely feeling his discomfiture, re-
turned immediately to Pittsburg; and the
work that he accomplished is a matter of
history, but unworthy of further notice here.
	It was thought by anti-Mormons that with
Joseph Smith’s death "Mormonism" would
cease to have a being. Those apostates said,
"Their damnation is sealed; their die is cast;
their doom is fixed." But Brigham said:
"There is an Almighty foundation laid, and
*	*	we can build a kingdom faster than
Satan can kill the Saints off." We are able to
testify that his words have not failed—no one
can deny their fulfilment. Our enemies were
blinded and did not see that "the blood of the
Prophet was the seed of the Church;" nor that
their predictions were so soon to be answered
upon their own heads instead of upon those
of the Saints, who that day recognized in
Brigham Young the voice of the true shepherd.
	For proofs that retribution has been meted
out to many who had a hand in our persecu-
tions, and the shedding of innocent blood
which cried to heaven for vengance, we refer
to a chapter of testimonies which, long since,
were given by the guilty, and have been lately
published in a little book entitled, "The Mar-
tyrs, by Lyman O. Littlefield; showing also
how "the sins of the fathers are visited upon
the children. These things are terrible to re-
flect upon, and how awful to think that it
should be so, adding to their own sufferings,
which they were doomed to endure here, be-
sides the terrible punishment hereafter.
	I can bear witness, with hundreds of others
who stood that day under the sound of Brig-
ham’s voice, of the wonderful and startling
effect that it had upon us. If Joseph had
risen from the dead and stood before them,
it could hardly have made a deeper or more
lasting impression. It was the very voice of
Joseph himself. This was repeatedly spoken
of by the Latter-day Saints. And surely
it was a most powerful and convincing tes-
timony to them that he was the man, instead
of Sidney Rigdon, that was destined to be-
come the "great leader," and upon whose
shoulders the mantle of Joseph had fallen.
	I will here mention a little circumstance to
show that there was still a warm place in the
heart of Prest. Brigham Young towards Elder
Rigdon. It is now more than twenty years
since his two eldest sons, Sidney and Wickliffe,
came out West in search of gold, the latter hop-
ing also to find health, which he lost while
studying law, and had been for some time a
sufferer from dyspepsia. Being old school-
mates, my husband invited them to share our
hospitality while they staid. They accom-
panied him to the office to see President B.
Young, who gave them a kindly welcome, and
the first opportunity that presented itself of
speaking alone to my husband, he said:
"Horace, you give those boys a home with you,
and you shall lose nothing by it." Horace in-
formed him that he had already done so.
Everything that laid in our power was done to
make them feel comfortable and at home.
Wickliffe remained here through the summer,
and Sidney stopped with us whenever he came
in from the mines. Wickliffe was more re-
ligiously inclined than the other, and he ex-
pressed himself to Mother Whitney and to
Sister E. R. Snow, that he would give all that
he had if he could know of the truth of "Mor-
monism." He wrote after returning home and
and expressed his appreciation of the hospital-
ity that they met with, while wanderers in this
far off land.				(To be continued.)


