DIRECTOR BROWN'S DREAM.

	At the close of a March day, Dr. Toby was
returning from his round of visits. His pa-
tients that day were mostly children. Scarlet
fever, measles, diphtheria, ophthalmia in var-
ious forms, had taxed his skill and touched
his sympathies. His way lay past Brown's,
and he determined to call. He hoped to hear
Brown's lively comments on the events of the
day, and so succeed in driving away the re-
collections of the scenes of suffering he had
witnessed—scenes doubly distressing to him
because he believed them to be in a great
measure preventable.
	Contrary to expectation, he found Brown
taciturn, sober, blue. He rallied him on his
gloominess, when Brown exclaimed: "Now,
doctor, I know you'll laugh, and tell me to
avoid late suppers; but the fact is, I have had
a dream, and cannot shake off the impression
it has made. It has set me thinking," and
Brown thrust his hands in his pockets, dropped
his chin upon his chest and gazed steadily at
the fire in the grate.
	"It wants an hour to dinner, and I have no
engagement, so let me hear the wonderful
dream," said the doctor.
	Brown seized the poker, stirred the fire un-
til it glowed, and thus began:
	"It seemed that I stood before the gates of
the Golden City and knocked for admission.
A voice cried out, 'Who's there?' 'Brown,'
said I. 'Too indefinite and the form of St.
Peter appeared above the gate with a large
book in his hand, in which he seemed to
search. 'Occupation?' he asked. 'Merchant,'
I replied. 'Brown—merchant,' said the good
saint, running his finger down the page; 'Not
here;' and he seemed about to close the book.
'School trustee,' I added, in a hesitating tone.
He turned again to the book. Running his
finger down the page, he said, 'Brown, trustee
of P.S. No. 505.' 'That's it,' said I, sudden-
ly brightening up, for if my name was there,
I thought I had only to walk to the cashier's
desk and draw my dividend. 'Well! what
good have you done down there?' said the
saint, nodding in the direction of the world.
This dampened my ardor. I remembered that
I had received, on one occasion, three votes for
deacon of onr church; that I was a director in
a horse railroad; that I put my name on to all
subscription papers presented; but none of
these seemed to suit the atmosphere of the
country in which I was, and so I ventured to
say that I had a school-house built in my
ward.
	"The good saint, who had been gazing in-
tently upon a group of children playing on the
sunny bank, suddenly turned to me and said :
'What kind of one ?' I wished that I had had
with me some of the plans we have in our
board. They look so fine upon paper, and so
much like a rope-walk, or tenement house,
when put into brick and mortar. I described
P. S. No. 505 to the best of my ability.
'Nothing like it in these parts,' said he; 'how
many do you put in a school?' 'That depends,'
said I. 'Depends on what?' said he, in a tone
of voice that made my knees tremble. 'Upon
how many want to come,' I replied. 'What
do you do when the rooms are full?' he then
asked. 'Make additional ones out of the play
rooms,' I answered. 'Where do the children
then play?' he inquired, in a tone I did'nt like;
but I plucked up courage and answered, 'They
don't come to school to play but to learn.' I
said this all the bolder because it wasn't
original with me.
	" 'When these are full, what do you do then?'
he asked, in a tone that indicated that he
thought he had me cornered. 'Put them in
wardrobes, and under the stairs,' I said quite


[Column 1]
﻿readily. ‘What then?’ said he, with a stern-
ness that made me wish I hadn’t been quite so
fluent with my answers. ‘Put them in church
basements;' and I emphasized the word church,
hoping to turn his thoughts from school houses,
that are used five days in the week, to churches
that are used but one day in the week. But I
didn’t succeed. ‘What then?’ said he, impa-
tiently. ‘We promote and fill up again.’ The
good saint made a gesture of despair. ‘What
kind of teachers do you give these little ones,
crowded into dark basements, huddled into
wardrobes, stifled under stairways? Good
ones, I hope; those with judgment and exper-
ience, and full of love for them.’
	“I was sorry that he touched on this subject,
for I thought he would pardon my sins in the
school-houses, as I was but one out of many;
but in the matter of teachers I feared that I
had not so much to plead in excuse, so I an-
swered: 'Your reverence, when I go to Boston
and am asked this question, I say yes; but as
your city doesn’t lie in that latitude, I might
as well confess that I do no such thing. I put
in young girls sixteen years of age, who can’t
define judgment, much less possess it; with no
experience; pupils themselves yesterday, teach-
ers to-day, with the destinies of eighty or a
hundred little children in their hands; heads
so filled with balls, parties, and novels, that
there is little room for love of children—these
are they to whom I commit the children in
dark basements, crowded wardrobes, and stifled
closets!” and, doctor, I dared not look the
good saint in the face, but stood with bowed
head before him. Presently he said, ‘Look!’
I looked, and beheld a great multitude of
children whom no man could number, sporting
on the plains of the Golden City. ‘There are
they whom scarlet fever, diphtheria, pneumonia,
have taken from your ill-ventilated, fever-
breeding school-rooms, under the charge of
children themselves. Think of how many
desolated homes, blighted hopes, those children
represent. There was a crash, the golden gate
vanished, and in letters of fire I read these
words: ‘Inasmuch as ye did it not unto the
the least of these, ye did it not unto me.’
	There was silence for some moments, broken
at last by the doctor, who said: “You have
seen the children released from their bodily
sufferings; I to-day have seen them writhing
under their pains. Ill-ventilated and over-
crowded school-rooms are the remote causes of
a large amount of this suffering. Both public
and private schools are equally guilty. We [--]
wonder at the stupidity of our fathers, who
provided seats without backs for their children,
but gave them plenty of fresh air and of room.
Posterity will condemn us, who provide com-
fortable seats, and deprive our children of air
and of room. Your plan of putting six or
eight children on a bench, so closely seated
that they can hardly move, is horrible. Itch,
lice, and sore eyes travel along the whole line.”
	“No such children are allowed in my school,”
said Brown.
	“Nothing but a minute daily examination
can determine that,” continued the doctor.
	“And have your young and inexperienced
teachers, who, with a fatal blindness, are
placed over them, the time, tact, and judgment
to make this examination?” Brown did not
reply, and the doctor went on. “As a citizen
of this commonwealth, each child has a right
to his individuality; to a separate and distinct
seat, to at.least six square feet of space, over
which he is master and for which he is respon-
sible. Citizens of a republic can be made in
no other way. All this abominable arrange-
ment of settees, galleries and extra seats, must
be relegated to the dark ages.”
“Doctor, you are crazy. On this plan P. S.
505, with its two thousand pupils, would be-
come a one horse affair of about five hundred,”
said Brown; "and from being chairman of the

[Column 2]
first school in the city, I should come down to
the level of Jones, who is chairman of a little
primary in the suburbs. I never would con-
sent to that. A Frenchman, in my presence,
boasted of his famous schools, with a beggarly
two or three hundred. When I told him mine
had over two thousand, you should have seen
him open his eyes. Think of the cost. Four
schools to do the work of P. S. No. 505.
	“Not all the work, Brown,” replied the doc-
tor; “they couldn’t fill the cemetery so fast.
There is money for jails, almshouses, and pri-
sons, when over crowded—why not for schools?”
	“We don’t get half of the money now for
which we ask,” objected Brown.
	“If the class is full, refuse them,” answered
the doctor; “refuse them in justice to those
already there, in justice to themselves.”
	“But is not a half a loaf better than no
bread?” queried Brown.
	“Not if the half offered contain the seeds of
ill-health and premature decay,” said the doc-
tor.
	Brown said nothing, and the doctor con-
tinued: “Medical men have written volumes
upon the evils of over-crowding the schools.
Again and again have they demonstrated the
least space a child should have; the lasting
evils of foul-air, the eye-destroying power of
ill-arranged barracks are continually repeated.
We cannot hold our own with the schools of
other nations, unless there be great improve-
ment, both in their physical and mental con-
ditions. The editors did not go through the
great Exposition with their eyer shut. With
our wonderful physical and mechanical pros-
perity our schools have not been keeping pace.
In the next ten years the press will hold every
school trustee to a strict account of his steward-
ship. Brown take a step in advance to better
the physical condition of P. S. No. 505. Re-
duce your grammar classes to forty pupils,
your primary classes to fifty, give each pupil
a separate desk, put over him a man or a
woman for a teacher, not a girl who still ought
to be in the academic class or normal school;
and then, when you approach, in reality, the
gate of the Golden City, no pupil of P. S. No.
505 will be there to accuse you of crowding
him out of life.”
 “Toby, there’s my hand; I’ll do it!” said
Brown; and the good doctor went home with
the happy consciousnes that the resolve meant
life and wealth to many a child, for Brown
was a man of his word.
 Gentlemen of the Education Boards in the
cities of our fair land, will you not follow
Brown’s example?—Sanitarian.


