PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.

[Continued.]

	The youth of Sister Presendia was passed
in comparative seclusion, in the quiet country
town where she was born. The advantages of
education enjoyed at that early period were
few, and in remote districts such as Watertown,
the people were only taught to read, write and
spell and a little arithmetic and geography.
This was considered quite sufficient, especially
for girls. Presendia Huntington had a mind
deep enough to have grappled with the most
abstruse studies, but such was not the order of
the day when she was young, therefore she was
compelled to submit to the existing conditions
of the times, while her whole soul thirsted af-
ter knowledge and intelligence. Girls were
taught housewifery in all its details and de-
partments. They were also taught to spin and
weave, to knit and sew. The amusements
were mostly dancing and riding on horseback.
Everything was very primitive and simple and
done in the most economical manner. In those
days the habits of life were such as promoted
health, activity and full physical development.
Sister Presendia merged from childhood into a
very large well-proportioned and handsome
young woman. In mind she was inclined to
be spiritual and reverential, though not pro-
nounced, as to a declaration of her religious
sentiments. She became acquainted with
Norman Buell, a young man of considerable
ability and enterprise, and after a formal
courtship subsequently married him at the age
of seventeen. The first years of the married
life of Mr. and Mrs. Buell were passed in
Mansville, New York. Mr. Buell was a manu-
facturer, and his business was so different to
anything his wife had been accustomed to in
her own home on a farm, that she was inclined
to be unhappy on account of it, though in a
worldly point of view they were well off.
There first child was born in Mansville, Dec.
12, 1828, and was called George. Shortly af-
ter, on account of Mrs. Buell's predilections in
favor of farm life, her husband sold his ma-

[Column 2]
chinery and business and returned to his
father's in Redmond, Jefferson Co., N. Y.
The estate of Mr. Buell's father being settled
soon after, he received his portion and bought
a hundred acres of land in an adjoining coun-
ty township of Pinbury, Lewis Co. There he
built a nice comfortable house and a commo-
dious barn, set out an orchard of valuable
fruit trees, and stocked his farm well with
cattle and sheep. There was also a maple
orchard on the farm, so they manufactured
their own molasses and sugar as well as some
to sell. They kept geese too, and as Mrs.
Buell was a farmer's daughter and accustomed
to all the details of farm life, she soon had her
house well supplied with downy feather beds.
They raised flax too, and Mrs. Buell worked
up for domestic use large quantities of both
wool and flax. Her husband made a loom in
which she did the weaving, so you can readily
understand her hands were never idle; and in
the language of the Scripture it might be said
of her, "she layeth her hands to the spindle
and her hands hold the distaff;" "she maketh
fine linen and selleth it," and so on. Here
upon the farm in the new bouse her second
son was born, Dec. 25, 1831. The young
couple cleared seventy acres of the new land
and made a splendid farm. They made up
their minds to acquire wealth by dint of hard
labor, industry and perseverance. They were
united in the endeavor to make their home
comfortable and pleasant, and the young wife
performed her part well, assisting her husband
as much as possible. Sister Presendia says, "I
primed all the sash for our house, made the
putty, set the glass and painted the whole
house inside and as far outside as I could
reach, Mr. Buell finishing where I could not
reach." In the fall of 1833, she repainted the
parlor floor; her little boy Silas run in while
the paint was still wet and left the prints of his
little feet; she had good cause to remember
this circumstance, and it imprinted itself firm-
ly upon her heart after, for on the 13th of
November a terrible accident occurred by
which the little one lost his life. The mother
had been boiling down cider in a very large
brass kettle, and this having been removed to
another room, the little boy went in and acci-
dentally fell so that he was burned and died
thirteen hours after the injury. Sister Presen-
dia says, "no one but a mother can realize the
sorrow of an accidental death." This was the
end of happiness at the farm. The mother's
health gradually failed; she was unable to ful-
fill the daily duties devolving upon her, and
it was considered advisable to get the counsel
of some physician. Mr. Buell was going from
home on business to Adams village, and it was
decided to take Mrs. B. with him to see a doc-
tor. Mrs. B. was so ill that they could not re-
turn home, and at the house of Dr. Baggs, at
Lorain, on the return route, she was obliged to
remain. Here she was so low that her father
and mother were sent for. Mrs. B. was con-
fined with a son, who died the same day it was
born, March 8, 1834; it was named Thomas
Dymick. Her parents, as was previously
stated, were strict Presbyterians, believing much
in the efficacy of prayer. She says, "when my
father left me he said, in a feeling and tender
manner, 'may the Son of Righteousness arise
with healing in his wings,' and I felt he never
expected to see me again." However, through
good nursing and medical treatment she was
restored to health, but she did not wish to re-
turn to the farm, there were too many sad re-
collections connected with it. Mr. Buell sold
his farm and rented a woolen factory in Lorain,
resuming his favorite employment.
	About this time, Sister Presendia says, the
ministers of the different denominations in that
vicinity tried to persuade them to unite with
the church, each one presenting his particular
views, desirous to have them receive and be-

[Column 3]
lieve as he did. But Mr. and Mrs. Buell be-
lieved they were all wrong, and stood aloof
from all. About the same time a rumor
reached them of a "golden Bible" being found
in the "Hill Cumorah" in their own native
State. They looked upon it as another re-
ligious speculation, for they had seen much
deception and wickedness among professors of
religion, and therefore took very little notice
of the report.
	In the summer of 1835, while residing in
Lorain, Sister Presendia says, "my mother
came to visit me and brought the 'Word of
Wisdom' in writing, it had not yet been print-
ed, and she gave me the first intelligence of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and the record taken
from the Hill Cumorah. I felt it was true,
and thought I would keep the Word of Wis-
dom and obtain the blessings promised."

[To be continued.]


