FROM MRS. SARAH JOSEPHA HALE’S RECORD
OF ILLUSTRIOUS WOMEN. PUBLISHED, 1853.
	Victoria, Queen of England, was crowned
oix the 28th of June, 1838. From that time
onward, there has been no diminution in her
zeal; every duty devolving on her, every form
prescribed, every custom held important in the
old and cumbrous British government she has
performed, observed, and cherished. She has
been the model of female royalty. But this
is a trifling matter, compared with the salutary
influence her high principles, refined taste, and
graceful propriety of manners have wielded over
those who give tone to fashionable society in
England. Vice and folly retire abashed from
her presence.
      Great Britain is governed by laws, but the
ruler is not amenable to the laws. Hence
the importance that the sovereign should show
obedience to the laws of God, from which the
morality of all Christian codes is educed.
With wickedness on the throne, pollution in
the palace, infidelity at the head of the church,
how can the nation increase in piety, virtue
and goodness? The great blessing of a female
reign is in its purity of court morals and its
decorum of manners. These strengthen the
religious elements of human nature and give
soul the supremacy over sense.
	This example of strict virtue on the British
throne was imperatively needed; hence the
great blessing conferred by the reign of
Victoria, who is, in her private life a model
for her people. (Just here, in a footnote, Mrs.
Hale says: “Queens have excelled kings in ad-
ministration of civil government, not from
superior powers of reason, but from a clearer
moral sense. Isabella I, was the greatest
and noblest ruler who has governed Spain be-
cause she faithfully sought to do right.
Theresa Maria, with a very limited education,
was the wisest and best ruler who has held
sway over the Germanic Empire, because she
labored for the good of those she governed,
not for her own personal indulgences. Eliza-
beth was the most able ruler of men and the
most watchful for the welfare of her subjects
who had ever filled the British throne, because
she governed as the mother, not as the op-
pressor of her people. Compare the glories
and  prosperity of her reign with that which
preceded and that which followed. No won-
der the British people rejoice when the sceptre
passes into the hands of a woman,”)
	Now to return to her description of Victoria:
She finds time for all she wishes to do, and the
means from her allowed income. She is never
in debt. She is liberal in her charities, and,
from her own private purse has pensioned
many deserving persons, including many
literary ladies  of England.
	Compare Victoria’s character and conduct
since she came to the throne with the best
sovereign of her royal line. The Georges I
and II were hardly above the brutes; we would
not bring this excellent queen into comparison
with such men. Nor with George IV, the
profligate sensualist, who disgraced the title of
“gentleman;” nor with William IV.
	But we will take him who has been vaunted
as the good king, George III. He was narrow
minded, cruel and selfish. It is notorious that
he delighted in signing death warrants, and
never would grant a pardon to the condemned
unless driven by the greatest importunities.
Victoria pardons even against the remon-
strances of her advisers; and so painful to her
is the signature of her name to the death
penalty that she has been relieved from the
duty, though the delight of the pardoning
power she holds firmly.
	Of the manner in which their respective sen-
timents of honor and honesty contrast, the
following, from the pen of an English gentle-
man, will, testify: “Frederick, Prince of Wales,
father of George III, died considerably in debt,
of which his son, such as he was, never paid a
farthing. So much for George III, as a son;
let us look at him as a father. No sooner was
George, Prince of Wales, (afterwards George
IV) born, than his father laid hands on the
Duchy of Cornwall and all other property
to which his son was entitled, appropriated
the rents and profits thereof to his own use,
and never accounted to the latter for any part
of them whatever (as he was bound to do on
hiss son’s coming of age), but sent the son to
Parliament for the payment of his debts!”
	How different the conduct of Victoria!
With an income of not more than half the
amount of that possessed by her grandfather,
George III, her almost first act on coming to
the throne was to pay her father’s (the Duke
of Kent’s) debts out of her own privy purse;
and on the birth of her son, (the Prince of
Wales) she had his Duchy and other property
put into the hands of responsible commission-
ers to be protected and made the most of for
him till he was of age. It is impossible to
study carefully the manifestations of character
in the sexes, without seeing on every side
proofs of the superior moral endowments of
the female. Woman is the conservator of
truth and purity; the first teacher and best
example of the Christian virtues. When
God, by whom "kings reign,” exalts woman to
the government of a great kingdom, we are
led to believe it is for the purpose of promot-
-ing the best interests of virtue, religion, and
social happiness. There was never a time when
moral power might be so effectively and glorious-
ly employed as at the present.  The emtire phsy-
ical force is crumbling into ruins. It is fitting
that, the reign of feeling and intellect, of in-
dustry and peace, should be ushered in by
woman!
[Copied for the EXPONENT by E. S. D.]


The universities of Norway are now open to
women, and any Norwegian girl may strive for
the highest degrees that her country has to
offer as a reward for scholarship.


