ONE WOMAN'S OPINION.

	Another attempt is being made in the Con-
gress of the United States to disfranchise the
women of Utah. The Woman's Convention
recently held in Washington, passed resolutions
denouncing these attempts and have been be-
fore the House proclaiming against it as an evil
display of power. While these and thousands
of other noble women throughout the land, and
hundreds of liberal minded men are laboring in
the interest of securing the franchise to all
women, here are a few narrow-minded politi-
cians trying to deprive a handful of women,
away in the far west, of that privilege which
they had exercised already twelve years, and no
one has ever been able to say, the least evil re-


[Column 1]
﻿sult had followed. These liberal minded per-
sons who are so anxious to better the condition
of the women of Utah, and who made such
boasts of what they would do for them, during
the late campaign, when electioneering for Dale-
gate to Congress, are now urging the lawmakers
of the nation to annul the act of the Utah Leg-
islature confering upon women the right to vote.
It is plain as possible that it is a little game of
subtraction they are trying to play, and at the
expense of women; they have scarcely the
courage yet to say, take the ballot from men
because they believe in a certain religion, but
women are "weak creatures," and it will be an
easy matter to make Congress believe women
ought not to have the privilege of voting, and
that will take away from the People's Party a
few thousand votes weakening their ranks a
little, and equalizing the two parties somewhat.
	Plural marriage does not enter into the ques-
tion at all, for no woman on whom a suspicion
has fallen of entering into such relations, is
allowed to vote under the Edmunds law as in-
terpreted by the Commissioners. Consequently
that settles that matter decidedly. It is not
because they vote for men to hold office who
have more than one wife, for such men cannot
hold any office, well why is it? Simply because
they want to obtain a balance of power, by
working away at the rule of subtraction. They
would take away every right and privilege that
the men and women enjoy who settled this
desert land without the least conscientious
scruple Mormon women are entitled to some
privileges for the part they took in opening up
this new country. Many of them drove cattle
over the plains, yoking and unyoking the team
themselves, cooked for their children, made
their own fires, etc., while the husband and
father was in the United States service. This
people, driven from their homes in Nauvoo, and
compelled to go out into the wilderness, and
afterwards called upon to furnish five-hundred
able-bodied men to go to Mexico, a most un-
common request, yet cheerfully complied with;
undergoing numberless privations and hard-
ships, in which women bore their share uncom-
plainingly, have had comparative peace and
prosperity for a number of years here in the
mountain fastnesses.
	The toil and labor consequent upon such long
and tedious journeyings, and the many difficul-
ties and trials which are incidental to pioneer
life have been shared by the mothers and
daughters equally with the fathers and sons.
Realizing this fact and having the utmost con-
fidenee in the integrity and capacity of women
for the public good, the Legislature of Utah
gave woman the suffrage. Believing it
would be for the best interests of all, and that
woman's intelligence would thus be brought in-
to exercise for the benefit of all. Again and
again have the liberal party sought to wrest the
ballot from the women of this Territory, but
their repeated attempts have each time signally
failed. No doubt this last will be as futile as the
others. It is strange considering how anxious
the liberal party were, previous to the last elec-
tion, to obtain the votes of "Mormon" women
that they should so soon seek to deprive them
of the ballot. Had they cast their votes for the
"Liberal" candidate he might have proved him-
self more "Liberal." Alas for the frailty of the
liberal party, who promised so much for woman
in her "down-trodden condition," and now seek
to deprive her of that which gives her political
independence and prestige. What a pity it is
to be sure that all the democratic candidates
who have been beaten by republican votes can-
not appeal to Congress to disfranchise republi-
cans! It would be quite as just, as for the lib-
erals to cheat the women of Utah out of their

[Column 2]
political privileges; but possession is nine points
of the law, the old adage saith, and the women
of Utah have the suffrage and it will be a hard
matter to persuade Congress that any particular
benefit to the Territory can be derived by the
annuling of the act which granted woman the
right to vote, when even those Governors, who
have been most opposed to woman suffrage on
general principles could see no evil result arising
from its exercise in this Territory.
	However, if the liberal party push women to
the wall in the political struggle as they seem
determined to do, they will not achieve the ob-
ject of their ambition, and will most assuredly
get the ill will of all women everywhere who
are demanding political recognition. In these
mountain vales there are hosts of young men,
as well as old, who are by every right of birth
and intelligence entitled to citizenship, who will
uphold the Constitution of the United States
and stand by the flag even under difficulties, and
they will always out vote such men as are now
trying to get Congress to take from the women
of Utah that privilege which they hold most
sacred; and have exercised for twelve years con-
tinuously with the most satisfactory results to
all parties concerned, except a few dissatisfied
office seekers, who are striving to build them-
selves up at the expense of the territorial treas-
ury, and not by the will of the whole people,
but the desire to rule by right of might, taking
advantage of the prejudices of the people
against the "Mormons," and resorting to all
sorts of trickery to carry on the campaign. But
this move to disfranchise women is in keep-
ing with the entire proceedings of the "liberals,"
and is only one more outrage perpetrated in the
interest of a few who desire to arrogate to them-
selves the control of this little portion of terri-
tory, and to oppress the rightful owners of the
soil and the pioneers of the desert, who have
done the hard work of searching out settlements
have built the roads and bridges, made peace
with the red man and destroyed the wild
beasts and reptiles, until it was easy for others
to come here and acquire wealth and position.
The fortitude and endurance of the early set-
tlers of these valleys is deserving the recollec-
tion and gratitude of posterity. Those who par-
ticipated in the hardships and endured the pri-
vations incident to settling this country, know
well how to appreciate the blessings of prosper-
ity that have followed their untiring exertions;
and are certainly the best guardians of their
own freedom and the public welfare, and will not
surrender the fort for any political whim or in-
trigue, not while they have God and right on
their side.


