WHICH IS MOST VALUABLE.

	I am sadly conscious that thousands of
mothers are so over burdened that the actual
demands of life, from day to day, consume all
their time and strength. But "of two evils
choose the least;" and which would you call
the least, an unpolished stove, or an untaught
boy? Dirty windows, or a child whose confi-
dence you have failed to gain? Cobwebs in
the corner, or a son over whose soul a crust
has formed so strong that you despair of melt-
ing it with your hot tears and your fervent
prayers?
	I have seen a woman who was absolutely
ignorant of her children’s habit of thought,
who never felt that she could spare a half
hour to read or talk with them—I have seen
this woman spend ten minutes in ironing a
a sheet—there were six in the washing—one
hour in fluting the ruffles and arranging the
puffs of her little girl’s "sweet white suit;"
thirty minutes in polishing tins which were
already bright and clean; forty minutes in
frosting and decorating a cake for tea, because
"company" was expected.
	When that mother—a good orthodox Chris-
tian—shall appear before the Great White
Throne, to be judged for "the deeds done in
the body," and to give in her report of the
Master’s treasures placed in her care—there
will be questions and answers like these:
	"Where are the boys and girls I gave thee?"
	"Lord, I was busy in keeping my house
clean and in order, and my children wandered
away!"
	"Where wert thou while thy sons and thy
daughters were learning lessons of dishonesty,
malice, and impurity?"
	"Lord, I was polishing furniture and ruffling
dresses, and making beautiful rugs!"
	"What hast thou to show for thy life-work?"
	"The tidiest house, Lord, and the best
starching and ironing in all our neighborhood!"
	Oh! these children! these children! The
restless, eager boys and girls whom we love
more than our own lives! Shall we devote
our time and strength to that which perisheth,
while the rich garden of our child’s soul lies
neglected, with foul weeds choking out all
worthy and beautiful growths? Shall we ex-
alt the incidentals of life to the rank of a
purpose, to the shutting out of that work
whose results reach beyond the stars?
	Fleeting oh! mother, are the days of child-
hood; and speckless windows, snowy linen,
the consciousness that everything about the
house is faultlessly bright and clean, will be
poor comfort in that day wherein we shall dis-
cover that our boy’s feet have chosen the path
that shall' take him out of the way to all
eternity.—Marriet M. Morris in Woman’s
Journal.


