BEAR LAKE.

	The Ninth Semi-Annual Conference of the

[Column 2]
Relief Societies of Bear Lake Stake was held
on Saturday and Sunday, January 13th and
14th, 1883, commencing Saturday, 10 a. m.
Sister Julia Lindsay, presiding.
	Singing. Prayer by President William
Budge. Singing.
	Minutes of last conference read by the sec-
retary, and approved. The different societies
were represented as follows: Paris, 1st Ward,.
by Counselor H. Rich; Paris, 2nd Ward, by
Prest. M. A. Shepherd; Ovid, Prest. Carleson;
Montpelier, Prest. P. Hogenson; Bennington,
Prest. VanOrman; Bloomington, Prest. Green-
halgh; St. Charles, Prest. Jacobs; Fish Haven,
Prest. F. Howell; Liberty, George Town, Soda
Springs, Garden City, Meadowville, Lake Town
Randolph, Woodruff, and Saleratus Creek,
were not represented. A number of subjects
were treated upon by the different presidents,
and among the most important ones were those
of storing grain, building temples, and assisting
the Deseret Hospital. The reports were very
encouraging and showed that much good was
being done by the sisters.
	President Lindsay felt pleased with the re-
marks of the sisters. Alluded to the remarks
of President Carleson, who said she never called
upon the association for anything but that
she received it, and thought if we all could say
that we would soon become perfect.
	We should economize our time and spend it
in a way that will help others as well as our-
selves. Exhorted the sisters to attend their
meetings regularly that they might get the
spirit of the times, for they could not get it
without. We should not stay away because we
are afraid we will have to speak, we must
make a beginning, commence at the foot of
the ladder as it were, and ascend.
	As the Logan Temple was nearly completed,
would like to send what means could be brought
together to be donated to the Deseret Hospital.
	Showed the necessity of storing grain and of
building granaries so that it could be taken
care of. We are called upon by our Heavenly
Father to renew our energies, let us all try to
do so to the best of our abilities.
	Counselor Maria Rich felt to rejoice in the
things the Lord had blessed us with. Had been
quite ill for the past year, but had prayed
earnestly for health and her desires had been
granted. Spoke of some of her experience in
the early settlement of this country and of the
many trials she had passed through, but knew
that the Lord would help those who tried to do
good. We should speak cheering words to our
sisters, comfort the distressed and do the will of
our Heavenly Father and keep his command-
ments.
	Counselor E. Collings felt thankful that
we could meet together in peace and worship
the Lord according to the dictates of our con-
sciences. He had blessed us exceedingly since
we had been here. Compare our condition
with what it was a few years ago and then ask
ourselves if we ought not to comply with the re-
quirements of our Heavenly Father? I think we
should, but some of us are neglectful of our du-
ties. If we have done anything wrong we
must repent now and serve God more faithfully
in the future.
	The afternoon was occupied by the Y. L. M.
I. A.
	Sunday, 10 a. m. Sister J. P. Lindsay pre-
siding. Singing. Prayer by Bishop Price.
Singing.
	President M. Innis then represented Paris,
1st Ward, she not being present on Saturday
morning.
	Counselor E. Collings encouraged the sisters
to attend the meetings. We must watch our-
selves and reform in all our evil ways. There
is plenty of room for improvement, and there is
no time for us to look at the imperfections
of others. It is not pleasing in he sight of
our Heavenly Father that we spend so much

[Column 3]
time in dress when we can use it to so much
better advantage.
	The statistical and financial report and the
reports from the diffrent societies were then
read by the secretary.
	Prest. Lindsay was pleased to see so many at
meeting, and glad to see that the brethren had
confidence in their labors, and knew that they
had by their attendance at the meetings, and
by their encouraging remarks. It was right to
have written as well as verbal reports at our con-
ferences, and hoped the people would exercise a
little patience.
	We believe in revelation and should feel
thankful that the Lord has condescended to
speak to us at this time and in such a kindly
manner.
	Had felt somewhat uneasy on account of the
pride that was creeping in among the Latter-day
Saints, and said we must be wise in the way we
use our time and spend it to the glory of God.
We should not let our minds be taken up so
much with the things of this world. The
Lord looks at the heart, not at the clothes. We
must get rid of classification and distinction
and lay up treasures for the next world.
Don't send your means to the States for
cheap literature and give it to our children to
read. We must have the Spirit of the Lord
in our hearts at all times, and be very watch-
ful, as it takes but very little to grieve that
Spirit. Alluded to the revelation that had
lately been given to President Taylor and ex-
horted the sisters to assist their husbands to set
their families in order, as they could do much
in that direction. We should be determined
by the help of our Heavenly Father to do bet-
ter this year than we have ever done before.
	Keep your small children in the house in
the evening where you can look after them and
see that your daughters keep good company.
	Advised the young ladies to attend their
meetings, gain all the instructions they could
that they might be able to train their children
in an acceptable way before God.
	President Budge made a few remarks about
sustaining the officers of the Relief Societies,
and said it wss the privilege of any who did
not feel willing to sustain them with their faith
and prayers to make their objections.
	The Stake Presidency, secretaries and treas-
urers and presidents and counselors of the var-
ious associations were then sustained by the
vote of the people.
	President Budge trusted that the faith and
prayers of the Saints would be exercised in his
behalf, that what he might say might be bene-
ficial to all. Had been pleased and edified by
the remarks of the sisters, they were calcu-
lated to make us think, and to be profitable to
us after we leave this assembly. Alluded to
the remarks of Sister Lindsay about partak-
ing of the influences of the Gentiles. The
Lord said "Come out of her (Babylon), O my
people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and
that ye receive not of her plagues." What
benefit would our gathering be if we brought
with us the spirit and habits of the Gentiles?
Evils exist among us and it is necessary that
they should be corrected. We should give
our thoughts to better things, the instructions
we receive will strengthen us in our endeavors.
We say we thank God for these instructions
and for Apostles and Prophets, and should we
not be prepared to receive their words. Let
us endeavor to turn aside from all that is
not right, and serve God more closely in the
future. I believe that this feeling exists
among the people. Some of us indulge in the
use of tobacco, strong drink, tea and coffee,
and we ought to leave off these habits, as God
says they are not good. Besides the immediate
evils that directly effect us, as the results of
such practices, we become slaves to our appe-
tites. This is not right, Latter-day Saints
should be free in every respect to serve God.


We must be free, and a man who drinks is not
free but is enslaved by that power. Spoke of
the influence cheap literature had upon the
mind. We want to live by the light, power
and knowledge of God. His work will grow
and increase until it fills the whole world.
There is no prospect for the wicked, or hope
of them ever being able to overcome this work.
Singing. Benediction by Prest. James H.
Hart.
 The afternoon was occupied by the Primary
Associations.
 Statistical and Financial Report of the
Relief Societies of the Bear Lake Stake of
Zion, for the six months ending December 31,
1882.
 Statistical:	Teachers,	133;	members, 481;
total offlcers and members, 637; meetings held,
94; average attendance, 236; Church papers,
198; WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 35.
Financial: On hand at date of last report,
cash, $88.75;  property, $646.81; wheat, 342
bushels, 55 pounds. Receipts: Cash, $286.94;
property, $68.89; wheat, 24 bushels, 55 pounds.
Dispursements: To the needy, cash, $43.48;
property, $31,94; to the Temple, cash, $281.57;
property, $13.15. To home industries, cash,
$54.55; property, $6,82; to books, cash, $4.50;
missionary, cash, $13.00; building, cash, $21.65;
property, $4.00.
 On hand: Cash, $161,70; property, $1257,70;
wheat, 759 bushels, 3 pounds.
ELIZABETH PUGMIRE, Secretary.
JULIA BUDGE, Assistant Secretary, R. S.


