A HAPPY EVENT.

	A very pleasant party was given in the Lion
House parlor on Thursday evening, January
25th, in honor of Sisters Eliza R. S. Smith and
Zina D. H. Young. Sister Eliza, as she is af-
fectionately entitled, was seventy-nine on Sun-
day, January 21, and Sister Zina, whose name is
also a household word, was sixty-two on Wednes-
day, January 31st. The committee arranged to
make the party a conjoint affair as the ladies
have been so closely associated in their labors
among the people, and also in family relation-
ships. There were about eighty persons as-
sembled and all seemed to enjoy themselves in
conversation with each other and congratula-
tions of the honored ladies were in order. One
of the committee read some letters from friends
who were unavoidably absent, and a poem which
had been written for the occasion by Augusta
Joyce Crocheron.
	Mrs. Zina Y. Williams, in a most graceful
manner, in behalf of the ladies, presented Sister
Eliza with a handsome silk cloak, accompanied
by a pretty little speech in which she included
the remarks made when the woman of Sa-
maria poured the precious ointment upon the


head of the Savior, and the people remonstrated
saying, this ointment might have been sold and
the money given to the poor, but Jesus reproved
them, and said, "the poor ye have always with
you, but me ye have not always"—Zina said,
"the poor we have always, but Sister Eliza we
may not have always." Dr. Romania B. Pratt
next presented, with a few brief and well chosen
words, a writing desk and gold pen to Sister
Zina, in behalf of the ladies. Refreshments
were then served to all and conversation again
became general. About eight o'clock the com-
mittee called upon Elder F. D. Richards to
speak; he was followed by President Taylor who
in the course of his remarks, related a conversa-
tion he had just had with a member of the
British Parliament in regard to Utah. The
other speakers were Counselor D. H. Wells,
Bishop L. W. Hardy, Sisters Eliza R. and Zina
D., Sister Jane S. Richards, of Ogden, Sisters
Presendia L. Kimball and M. Isabella Horne.
Elder George Goddard sang, "Who's on the
Lord's side," and Elder C. W. Penrose dismissed
with prayer. The sentiments of those who
spoke were in accordance with the spirit of love
and good feeling engendered by the pure prin-
ciples of the Gospel, and the congratulations
were sincere and fervent. Long may these
mothers in Israel live to do good and minister to
the daughters of Zion.


