IN MEMORIAM.

	It is with deep regret and feelings of sorrow that we
record the death of one of our most esteemed sisters,
Mary Katerina Barker, who departed this life on Janu-
ary 6th, 1883, at her home in Mound's Fort, near Ogden,
after a long and painful sickness, caused by an inward
tumor.
	The deceased was the daughter of John D. and Pauline
Malan, and was born in the valley of Luzerna, Province
of Pinerolo, Piedmont, Italy, July 10th, 1829. She was
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, in her native town, in 1853, by George D. Kea-
ton. In 1855, she left her native land, crossed the Alps,
and from Liverpool set sail for America on the "Juven-
ta," with seven hundred Saints on board; landed in Phil-
adelphia, May 5th, travelled by way of Pittsburg and
Atchison, arrived at Mormon Grove on the 25th of May,
and on October 28th of the same year arrived at Salt
Lake City, whence she immediately removed to Ogden,
where she has since resided. She was the wife of James
Barker, who died last June.
	Shortly before reaching Mormon Grove, cholera broke
out among the traveling Saints. Hundreds fell by the
way. Young and old alike yielded to its remorseless
grasp. Sister Barker, with heroic fortitude, like an an-
gel of mercy, ministered to the sick and the dying,
and cared for the dead, while she comforted those that
mourned. In fulfilment of a promise pronounced upon
their heads, at Liverpool, by Apostle F. D. Richards, not
one of the family of which the deceased was a member
was attacked with the disease.
	Sister Barker was treasurer of the Mound Fort Relief
Society from 1874 to the time of her demise. Her house
was ever open for meetings and other duties of the So-
ciety. She was an earnest and indefatigable laborer in
the cause of woman; and has, since its first issue, sub-
scribed for the EXPONENT, the reading of which gave
her much pleasure and comfort during her sickness.
	Diligent and faithful in all her duties, kind and ben-
evolent to the poor, charitable to the erring, meek and
humble in spirit, exemplary in all the relations of life,
with an unfaltering faith in God and her religion, she
was beloved by all who knew her, and died in hope of a
glorious resurrection, to inherit eternal life in the man-
sions of the just.
	She leaves a family of two boys and four girls, and a
large circle of relatives and friends to mourn her loss.
					ANNIE TAYLOR, Prest. R. S.
					ANNIE D. TAYLOR, Secretary.


[Column 1]
