TIONAL CONVENTION.

	The Declaration of Independence, which
enunciates some of the fundamental principles
of popular government, specifies liberty as one
of the inalienable rights of man. This undoubt-
edly includes, if it does not directly refer to,
political liberty. Governments are instituted to
secure this as well as other rights, and the just
powers of governments are derived from the
consent of the governed. Under the system of
territorial governments—which does not appear
to have been contemplated in the Constitution
of the United States, an instrument framed in
accordance with the spirit of the Declaration of
Independence, political liberty in its true sense
is not secured and cannot be enjoyed. The peo-
ple are governed without their consent. They
have no voice in the selection of the executive
judicial or administrative officers sent to man-
age their affairs, nor in the election of the na-
tional officers who appoint them. Laws are
framed for their obedience, in the enactment of
which they take no part, proper congressional
representation being denied them, their one
Delegate having no vote in the National Legis-
lature. And their own local enactments are
subject to arbitrary annulment or repeal.
	According to the same instrument which de-
fines human rights and points out the way by
which they should be secured, it is the right of
the people when the government under which
they exist does not answer the purpose for
which it was designed, to institute a new gov-
ernment; and not only to alter but abolish it
when it becomes destructive of those ends. The
change from a Territory to a State government
is therefore a rightful alteration, if in the forma-
tion of the State the principles of equal freedom
and popular government are established and
maintained.
	Utah has additional reasons for a change of
government to those which have justified other
Territories in throwing off the yoke which
weighed them down and asserting and acquir-
ing political liberty. Besides the ordinary disad-
vantages already named, she is so much in bon-
dage as to be placed under a "one man power"
of the most irksome character. The Governor
appointed by authority over which the people
have no control or influence, has the power of
absolute veto, by which the legislative acts of
their own elected representatives can be ren-
dered void at will; and against such autocratic
dominion there is no remedy. This is despotism
pure and simple. The citizens of Utah are thus
not freemen but vassals. The colonial bondage
against which the fathers rebelled was liberty
compared to this imperailism. No people im-
bued with a republican spirit would endure it

[Column 2]
any longer than they are compelled to. It is
their inalienable right to cast it off as soon as
they gain the needful strength.
	But the citizens of Utah have never contem-
plated rebellion against the authority of the
United States, however arbitrarily the power of
that Government may have been exercised.
They revere the Constitution, they owe and ac-
knowledge allegiance to the Federal Union, and
have always been anxious to occupy that posi-
tion connected therewith to which a free peo-
ple are entitled. They have therefore repeated-
ly sought admission into the Union as a State.
Having failed heretofore, they are now making
another application. The propriety and right-
fulness of this course must certainly be con-
ceded by all resonable minds.
	The power to admit new States into the Fed-
eral Union rests with the Congress of United
States. The only general constitutional rule to
govern such admission is that a republican form
of government shall be provided for and secured
to the new State. But other things are usually
required, the right to demand which is not dis-
puted, such as a sufficient population to bear the
burden of a State government; an area of terri-
tory large enough for growth and expansion;
property of sufficient value to yield a reasonable
revenue; the material elements necessary to the
support of a growing commonwealth; intelli-
gence adequate to self-government; due regard
for republican principles, by which liberty shall
be extended within the limits of wholesome
law to all classes, parties and creeds without dis-
tinction. Utah possesses all the qualifications
which may be reasonably demanded and which
have ever been required of any other commun-
ity seeking the rights and privileges of a free
State.
	The population of this Territory, according to
the census of 1880, was 14,963, of whom 99,969
are native born. With the natural increase and
the influx by immigration, the present popula-
tion may be safely placed at 160,000. The census
of 1870 gave Utah a population of 86,786. The
increase from 1870 to 1880 was 65 per cent., or
5,315 per cent. per annum. At the same ratio
Utah by June 1882 will have a population of
167,301. This is considerably above the figure
ever required heretofore as a condition to State-
hood.
	The land area of the Territory is 84,970 square
miles, its water area 2,780 miles. It stretches
325 miles north and south and 300 miles
east and west, and over 10,000,000 acres of
the public domain therein have been surveyed.
Wherever a stream of water flows down from
the mountain heights, settlements have been
farmed, which grow in numbers and wealth as
larger areas are brought under cultivation
through the increase of the water supply, the
volume of which enlarges remarkably, and as
various industries in addition to agriculture are
established. There are at least 350,000 acres of
land under fence, and the grain crop is not less
than 3,000,000 bushels per annum. The foot-
hills and benches afford ample grazing grounds
for stock, herds of cattle and bands of horses
fatten upon them for home use and extensive
export, and sheep raising has assumed large
proportions, the present number being in the
neighborhood of three quarters of a million,
shearing annually about 2,700,000 pounds of
wool. Factories are established for the manu-
facture of yarn, cloth, blankets, shawls, etc.,
in various parts of the Territory, and over a mil-
lion and a half pounds of wool is exported. All
kinds of fruit grown in the States flourish in
Utah and are of superior quality, dried apricots,
peaches, apples, plums and small fruit being
among her most profitable exports.
	According to the census of 1880, Utah had

[Column 3]
1,966 manufacturing establishments, employing
3,221 persons, with invested capital to the
amount of $2,839,463, producing goods to the
value of $4,217,434. These have materially in-
creased during the past two years, and it is safe
to put the manufactures of Utah at $6,000,000
per annum. This is exclusive of smelting and
reduction works. The principle manufactures
are flour, meal, cheese, salt, molasses, leather,
boots and shoes, harness, saddles, woolen goods,
hosiery, lumber, sash, doors, mouldings, brick,
lime, charcoal, machinery, furniture, paper,
soap, glue, candles, earthenware, brooms,
brushes, hats, basketware, candy, crackers,
matches, etc. There are several foundries and
machine shops, many saw mills, planing mills,
etc.
	The principal mineral products of Utah are
gold, silver, lead, copper, iron, coal, sulphur,
antimony, mica, rock salt, arsenic, alum, cinna-
bar, colbalt, bismuth, gypsum, marble, granite,
sandstone, limestone, slate, ochres, mineral wax,
kaolin, clays of various kinds, etc. The bullion
product of the year 1882, as gleaned from the
annual report of Wells, Fargo & Co., is as fol-
lows: Gold, 9,039 ounces; silver, 5,435,444
ounces; copper, 605,880 pounds; refined lead,
8,213,798 pounds; unrefined lead, 52,349,850
pounds. The total value of these products,
computing the gold and silver at mint valuation
and the other metals at their seaboard value, is
$10,312,902.
	Since the opening of her mines Utah has pro-
duced over $60,000,000 in the "precious" metals.
New mines are constantly being discovered and
many of the old ones are both permanent and
profitable. The stability which statehood would
give to the institutuions of Utah would impart
confidence to investors, and capital would flow
in by which the still hidden treasures of the
hills could be unlocked and brought forth to
enrich the State and benefit the nation.
	Among the undeveloped resources of the
Territory are the iron deposits, which exist in
many localities and are declared by noted ex-
perts to be unexcelled in intrinsic value by any
in the world. The ores are magnetite and he-
matite, and yield from 50 to 65 per cent. of iron
and both in quality and quantity the deposits
are remarkable. In close proximity are valuable
and extensive deposits of coal, also of limestone,
which will render the manufacture of iron easy
and cheap, when larger capital imparts vitality
to labor and a solid political basis is laid to give
stability to important enterprises. Coal fields
of vast extent are being opened in other parts of
the Territory. There is salt enough to pickle
the world, sulphur enough to suffocate it, coal
enough to cremate it. There is lead, iron, mica,
antimony, and other minerals enough to supply
the country for centuries, and the capabilities of
this important section of the public domain are
only just conmencing to be understood.

