[WomansExponent | Vol2 | 1873 | November | Issue: 12 | Title: SKELETONIZING LEAVES. | Author: Unknown]

		SKELETONIZING LEAVES.

	Some of our readers will be pleased with
the following directions, published in the
"Gardeners' Magazine," for making those
beautiful ornaments known as skeleton
leaves.
	Select the finest and most perfect speci-
mens, and soak them in a large deep vessel
of rain water; place it in a sunny spot or
other warm situation, and shake it occasion-
ally, but not sufficient to stir up the contents,
as that might injure the fibers of the leaves.
As the water evaporates, fill up with fresh
water again, without changing that which
remains. Be careful of using any chemi-
cal in order to assist decompositions as you
will thereby run great risk of injuring the
delicate skeleton, which of course you are
anxious to keep quite perfect. But if you
are impatient of waiting, a few drops of
muriatic acid would hasten the destruction
of the soft parts. The most usual plan,
however, is to soak the leaves in rain water
only, until the skin which envelops the
fiber is quite soft and loose, so that it can
be easily removed. The best plan for ac-
complishing this is to lay each one sepa-
rately in a plate full of water, and carefully
remove the soft parts with a needle, or
gently rubbing with the finger and thumb.
Of course, great care must be taken not to
break the skeleton; but with little practice
you will be able to do so easily. As soon as
the water thickens, so that you cannot well
see what you are about, change it, or you
will spoil your work. In some cases a piece
of soft flannel may be used with advantage;
but the final clearing of pulp from the fibers
must be performed by a camel's hair brush.
The time required for steeping them de-
pends upon a variety of circumstances, such
as the kind of a leaf, its age, the time of
year, the temperature of the weather, etc.
The leaves of the ivy and holly require soak-
ing for three or four months, while those of
the pear, apple, and poplar will be ready in
as many weeks; so that it will be necessary
for you to use your own judgement and dis-
cover the time each kind of leaf requires for
yourself by examining them occasonally.
Of course it will require some patience and
perseverance before "first-rate" skeletons
[Column 2]
can be obtained; but the task is not so diffi-
cult but that any one gifted with ordinary
patience and medium talent may be able
to produce very creditable specimens. The
vessel containing the water may be pretty
well filled with specimens, as they will not
injure each other unless shaken too rudely,
but perhaps rather assist in the process of
decomposition. It is not adviasable to use
any but full-grown leaves, as the delicate
fibers of the young ones are likely to decom-
pose with the pulp. The best time for
selecting them is therefore about July or
August, when they are quite mature, but
still vigorous. Great care must be taken
to choose only the most perfect, for it is
obvious that if any portion of the fibres are
injured before you macerated them, it will
be impossible to obtain a perfect specimen.
Hold your leaf then up to the light, and if
you can see a crack, or any small spots of
decay, throw it away, or your time and
trouble will be wasted. for when once the
skeleton is broken or otherwise injured, all
attempts to repair it will prove unavailing.
Those leaves which have the toughest fibers
are, of course, the best adapted for the pur-
pose, and consequently the soft leaves of
rapid growing plants are useless. Those
best adapted for the purpose, and which can
be obtained by everybody, are the leaves of
ivy, holly, magnolia, rose, pear, sycamore,
willow, oak, hawthorn, poplar, orange, and
lemon, the petals of hydrangea, and fruit
of the apple, thorn, and winter cherry.
Each kind of leaf has a peculiarity of struc-
ture and a beauty entirely its own, so that
the difference in the fiberous network, and
the variety and elegance of outline observa-
ble in the different subjects give to the
pursuit a great charm. The appearance of
the skeleton is greatly improved by bleach-
ing, which is accomplished by plunging in
spring water in which there has been dis-
olved some chloride of lime. Two table-
spoonfuls of liquid chloride to a pint of
water will suffice. In some cases the
skeletons will become white in a few min-
utes, but leaves of a stronger fiber will take
a much longer time. When well bleached,
dry them on blotting paper, and then
arrange them tastefully in a vase, and cover
the whole with a glass shade, when you will
possess a very elegant ornament for your
drawing-room or your boudoir. A shorter
method has been devised for preparing
skeleton leaves which occupies but a few
minutes, but is applicable only to those of
the toughest fiber as the process is somewhat
rough. It consists in drying the leaves be-
tween sheets of blotting paper, in a botanical
press, or under a weight; when quite dry,
place the leaf to be operated upon on a soft
pad and beat it with a brush until the pulp
is entirely separated from the fiber. Some
very good skeletons have been obtained in
this manner. A cushion and a clothes brush
will be sufficient for the first experiment
when, if the plan is approved, you can easily
devise means to carry it out properly.


JAY COOK, one of the prominent sufferers
from the financial crash, has a real heroine
for a wife, who promptly relinquishes her
dowery right to aid in meeting the pecuni-
ary liabilities of her husband. Though ac-
customed to luxury she will doubtless, find
more true pleasure in making this sacrifice,
than in the enjoyment of undisturbed
wealth.


﻿THE United States Senatorial Committee
on Elections and Privileges have drafted a
new amendment to the Constitution, provid-
ing a method of electing a President and
Vice-President directly by the people.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	WE find the following in an exchange:
A standing antidote for poison by oak, ivy, 
etc., is to take a handful of quick lime, dis-
solve in water, let it stand half an hour, 
then paint the poisoned part with it.  Three
or four applications will never fail to cure.
	THE following suggestions of devices are
from a correspondent of the "Rural New
Yorker:"
	A WALL PROTECTOR to put behind a 
wash-stand, is made of pink cambrie, co-
vered with dotted muslin, gathered, and
sewed on; a hem an inch wide on the top
gives it a finish.
	FOR A HAIR-RECEIVER, I take a square
piece of perforated cardboard and work a 
pretty pattern with worsted; line it with
cambric; bind it on three sides with ribbon;
roll it so as it forms a horn of plenty; put a
bow at the top and bottom and it is com-
plete.
	I HAVE TOILET MATS made of white
Marseilles, braided with fine red braid and 
the edge embroidered with red cotton.
					H. T. G.
"Niagara Falls, N.Y."
	ARROWPOINT PUDDING.—Mix four table-
spoonfuls to a smooth batter with a half pint
of milk; put a pint of milk on the fire with a
lump of sugar, and when it boils, add the
batter, and keep stirring it till sufficiently
thick to leave the saucepan.  Pour it into a 
mould previously soaked in cold water, and 
when could it will turn out easily.
	BURNS, SCALDS, AND THEIR TREATMENT.
—Mix common kitched whiting with sweet
oil, or, if sweet oil is not at hand, with
water.  Plaster the whole of the burn and 
some inches all around with the above, after
mixing it to the consistency of common
paste, and lay it on an eighth, or rather more,
of an inch in thickness.  It acts like a 
charm: the most agonizing pain is in a few
minutes stilled.  Take care to keep the
mixture moist by the application from time 
to time of fresh oil or fresh water, and at
night wrap the whole part affected in gut-
ta-percha or flannel, to keep the moisture 
from evaporating.  The patient will in all 
probability, unless the flesh be much injured
and the burn be a very bad one, sleep
soundly.
	MATRIMONY TART.—Pare and core about
a half dozen nice-sized apples; put them
into a saucepan with a little water to keep
them from burning; boil them until you 
can pulp them (but do not forget to fre-
quenctly stir them), then add a quarter of a
pound of currants, two ounces of candied peel,
and enough sugar to sweeten it nicely; if
liked, also a little grated nutmeg.  Pour
this mixture into a large tart-tin or dish
that has previously been lined with a thin 
paste.  Then roll out another piece the same
size and thickness, which place over the 
top; press the edges together all round,
make a hole into the centre (the same as for 
mince-pies), and bake.  When apples are
plentiful this makes a pleasing chagne from
the ordinary routine of pies and puddings.
	COCOA-NUT CAKES.—Rasp a fresh cocoa-
nut on a grater, avoiding letting any of the 
brown rind in by holding it towards you;
spread it on a dish an dlet it dry gradually
for two days; add to it double its weight of
sifted sugar and the well-beated whites of
eight eggs, a teacupful of flour for every
pound; put the mixture into small dorp-tins
and bake in a very gentle oven for about 
twenty minutes.
	TO DYE DRIED FLOWERS.—Some of the
most beautiful ornaments for the interior of
[Column 2]
our dwellings are those of natural produc-
tion, such as shells, crystals, corals, minerals,
etc.  There ever has been a desire to retain
flowers during the whole winter; but what 
Nautre Witholds, Art in the many instances
partially supplies.  The gathering of grasses,
mosses, ferns, and certain flowers called
gnaphalium, or everlasting flowers, during
autumn, is a delightful occupation.  Then
comes the work of setting them up into 
various ornamental forms.  Most of the
grasses and several mosses dry of a somber
hue, though they retain their exquisite
form. to whiten, or bleach them, make a 
cone of paper, in which the flowers are to 
be placed, over a small piece of burning sul-
phur.  To dye them—red.  Carmine dis-
olved in a solution of cabonate of potash, or
carmine dissolved in ammonia: say, car-
mine, a quarter of an ounce; liqquid ammo-
nia, half an ounce; water, a quarter of a pint.
Blue.—Indigo, dissolved in sulphuric acid, 
and neutralized with whiting.  Yellow.
—A solution of turmeric spirits of wine.
Violet.—Archil and the above blue.  Lilac.
—Archil, in boiling water.  Green.—Dye
first light blue by diluting the above by one
half with water, and then use the yellow.
All these grasses, etc., are dyed by dipping
them into solutions of the above mixtures.
The colors may be brightened if the plants
be first dipped in water containing cream of
tartar, and dried.


