[Vol56 | March 1969 | Page 177 | Special Feature | "What Wilt Thou Have Me to Do?" Afton | W. Hunt]
["What Wilt Thou Have Me to Do?" Afton W. Hunt]
Genealogy and the New GIANT System

The Genealogical Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

■ One of the responsibilities of a prophet of the Lord in all ages is to lead as many people as possible to salvation. And one of the greatest problems faced by the prophets has been to get the people to listen to and to follow their counsel.

Since the opening of this last and final dispensation of the gospel, all of our prophets have stressed the importance of providing ordinances of salvation to ourselves, the living, and also to the dead.

The Savior taught this principle, stressing the fact that no one could enter the kingdom of heaven without being born again—of water and of the spirit. (John 3:5.) At the end of his earthly ministry, he placed the greatest possible stamp of authoritativeness on what he had taught and exemplified by giving up his life, not only to provide the basic requisite—victory over death—but to open the way to eternal membership in his Father's heavenly kingdom to all who have the desire and the will to attain to it.

This is his Church—and through his prophets he has continued to emphasize the great joy and rewards that come through following the path he has charted. His greatest work was to offer and make possible salvation for others. The same is the responsibility of his Church—and it's members.

A brief study of the counsel given to us by all of our latter-day prophets will show how great this responsibility is on our part. The terms—"necessary," "essential," "greatest responsibility that God has placed upon us," "important duty," "great work," "absolutely necessary," "under condemnation" (if we do not), "cannot" (obtain the blessings), are repeatedly found among the inspired spoken and written counsel that has been given to us in regard to temple work.

The Prophet Joseph Smith used the following in his enlightening King Follett funeral sermon:

... hence the responsibility—the awful responsibility—that rests upon us in relation to our dead; for all of the spirits who have not obeyed the gospel in the flesh must either obey it in the spirit or be damned. Would that I had forty days and nights in which to tell you all. (DHC, Volume VI, pp. 312-313.)

These things apply not only to all persons as individuals, but also to the continuance of family relationships. It is an inherent desire in the hearts of almost all people that their family relationships continue after they leave this life. So strong was this desire in the hearts of the parents of a young engaged couple who were killed in a recent automobile accident in the State of New