ROSANNAH CANNON Utah State Training School By Dr. H, H. Ramsey, Superintendent Utah State Training School HE survey made by Dr. George L. Wallace under the direction of the National Committee of Mental Hygiene, established the same facts in the State of Utah that similar surveys have brought out in other states, that is: that the feeble-minded un- 'recognized, unsupervised and untrained and through haphazard methods of caring for them in prisons, poor farms, infirmaries, orphanages, allowing the females to become sexually promiscuous and with no: restraint of reproduction, costs the tax paying public more as the years go by than would be the entire cost of a well organized mental hygiene program, including the school for the types who can profit by instruction, traveling clinics for their recognition, child guidance in connection with the work and a complete educational program to bring the public to their full responsibility for the defectives in our midst. Recognizing the great social and economic loss resulting because of the lack of any organized effort to recognize, care for and train the feeble-minded children of the State, the Utah State Legislature of 1929 established the Utah State Training School at American Fork. The location of the institution is ideal. It is situated on a 400 acre tract of tillable land, two miles northeast of American Fork, overlooking beautiful Utah valley and Utah Lake. The plant of the Utah State Training School is incomplete, as only a partial building program was allowed by the Legislature establishing the Institution. The present plant consists of two dormitories, service building, laundry, comprising the main school department and where 195 children are now being cared for and given such training as their mental capacity will permit. A fifth building, one mile from the Institution for farm colony cases, is UTAH STATE TRAINING SCHOOL UTAH -STATE TRAINING utilized for the care of older males who are beyond school age and who are not capable of doing school work. These, however, are given training in farm activities, and with the farm manager and attendants have this year cultivated a large acreage of wheat, corn, potatoes, and a great variety of vegetables with a splendid yield of produce which has added materially to the support of the Institution. The anticipated building program was planned for 500 children but the funds available did not make this SCHOOL 17 children who have failed in the public school take new courage and make satisfactory progress. In addition to the academic school work given, the children whose mental capacity indicates their ability to do such are taught handiwork of various kinds which, not only provides the means of occupation, but develops them into useful individuals. The intellectual level is the guide to what a child can do. Comparing intelligence to a ladder, we can say that some children are quipped with long ladders, while others have possible. The present capacity of the Institution is approximately 200 and there are more than a hundred children on the waiting list, whose admission will depend upon the erection of additional buildings. THE school department of the institution is headed by a director and psychologist and six teachers who are especially trained for their work. By thorough psychological examination the mental level is determined and the child is given work on this level. At first the best the child can do. Is good enough and it is our experience that the majority of these _ ladders. Shorter, and still others very short The child with normal or superior intelligence has a long ladder and can look into high windows, and a great many windows. The child of low intelligence, or having a short ladder, can reach many low windows with his short ladder. Therefore, in order to make the training of the feeble-minded effectual we must first know something of the length of their intellectual ladder, and then adjust these short ladders to windows which are not too high for them to reach. Then it is first necessary to ascertain the child's mental age, or length of his intellectual RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ladder. With proper institution equipment and patient teachers, the majority of the feebleminded can make use of their limited intellect, and even though their work may be of a menial type it is useful and serves to make their existence not only bearable, but happy. The girls, whose mental ages range from six to nine years, can learn to sew, mend, cook, wash dishes, scrub, knit, sweep, dust, iron, serve meals, make beds, polish floors, clean windows, prepare vegetables, and many other useful tasks, menial but still useful and which are necessary for the existence of themselves, as well as others of higher intelligence. BOYS ranging in mental age from six to nine years can learn to plow, hoe, gather vegetables, handle stock, saw wood, split wood, dig ditches and post holes, drive teams, inix concrete, use a wheel-barrow, do rough carpentry, make brooms, repair shoes and all hand work necessary for existence and progress. Boys and girls of lower intelligence, or ranging in mental age from 2 to 5 years can learn to dress, and undress, become tidy, eat, respond to a command, learn own name, repress emotional disturbances, behave properly, and other achievements which considerably lighten the burden of their care, either in the home or institution. This phase of work has been passed unnoticed and unprovided for, and such children allowed to grow to adult life only to fail and become charges in various forms, because their situation was not recognized. To one accustomed to daily viewing the unfolding of the abilities and achievements of these blunted and subnormal brains, it becomes the greatest work in the world, not only for the sake of the defective child, but as the greatest factor imaginable in the relief of society from human failure and the vast expense which must be paid by the tax paying public, as the result of their unguided and abnormal activity, as paupers, criminals, prostitutes, dependents and objects of both private and public charity. It is too often the fault of people that they look upon the feebleminded as entirely helpless and worthless and for this reason many UTAH STATE TRAINING SCHOOL 19 look upon the Institution somewhat as an asylum for the care of helpless cripples and practically mindless idiots for whom, of course, there is nothing to be done except to care for them. The school type of child, intelligence quotient ranging from forty to seventy-five, should be given preference here because of the fact that it is the feeble-minded within this range who finally become the State's greatest social problem and economic burden, not only on account of there anti-social activity, but for the greater reason that they reproduce their kind rapidly and cause a continual mounting of this gigantic problem. HE first purpose then of the school would be for the training of the child who is too dull to profit by instruction in the public school, but yet who has intelligence enough that with special training and supervision through the developmental period of life can be made self-supporting and an acceptable citizen even though the intelligence may be limited. Of first importance in the management of the school is giving the young defective a chance and it is certainly a wise procedure for any state for obvious reasons to provide the necessary machinery for the proper recognition, supervision and final adjustment of its defective children while they are in the formative period. The establishment of this school comes about as the result of the interest in mental hygiene problems and carries with it much more than merely the local activities of the school. It would contemplate a traveling clinic, composed of a trained personnel for the purpose of examining retarded and maladjusted children in the public schools; child guidance clinics for the purpose of examining problem children in the various towns of the state and giving advice to parents and teachers concerning their adjustment. It would foster a complete mental hygiene program as outlined by the National Committee and State Mental Hygiene Societies. The school has established an outpatient department for the purpose of giving physical and mental examinations to retarded and maladjusted children on each Saturday from 10 a. M. To 1 p.m. At the Institution. This will PUPILS IN UTAH STATE TRAINING SCHOOL RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE reenable this department of the school to give possible assistance to families or organizations while the school is awaiting. Additional accommodations and this service is rendered without charge to the public. OUR experience would indicate that we are emphasizing the in-- tellectual capacity and training, and neglecting opportunity for emotional study and guidance. Therefore it is the purpose of the Institution to not only carefully establish the child's intellectual level, but also to carefully consider emotional trends and give proper guidance to the same as far as possible. Too much emphasis cannot be placed upon this phase of the work. The results of emotional training must be seriously questioned. It is undoubtedly true that in all of the educational activities, even the normal, we have placed too much stress on the intellectual and neglected or promoted the wrong kind of emotional education and this failure has resulted in a vast increase in child delinquency and mental instability in our young. To him who becomes concerned enough about this phase of education to the extent that our children will posses greater emotional balance. The world will finally give a crown, for this is the balance wheel of civilization.