Glen Perrins RANGE FROM STEWART RANGER STATION
A Message to the Relief Society An Address Given at the Conference-Convention of Salt Lake Stake, Oct. 2, 1932, by Ezra C. Dalby, High Councilman-Advisor
THE responsibility and the duties of the high councilman who has been called to act in an advisory capacity to the Stake Relief Society Board, will depend, to a degree at least, upon his ability and his knowledge of the problems with which the organization has to deal. Responsibility is measured by the talents and qualifications possessed, as well as by the position held. Where much has been given, much will be required. It will depend also upon the attitude of the officers toward the suggestions that the high councilman may make, and the advice that he may give. He cannot give what he hasn't got, neither can he be held responsible for what people are unwilling to receive. Naturally an advisor is loath to force himself into a discussion if he is looked upon as an intruder. As I consider this subject I am coming more and more to feel that the Stake advisor can be of great service to your organization by offering suggestions and taking part in the discussions of the Board. He should be made welcome at all your gatherings that he has time to attend, and invited to the special meetings that you may hold. Whatever contribution he can make that will add to the success of your organization, you should thankfully receive. This does not mean, however, that he should be officious, or try in any way to dictate your policy. He is simply an advisor, not an officer in your society. But he is more than a mere observer, called to report only what he hears and sees. If he is to render the greatest service of which he is capable, he should be taken into the confidence of the officers and advise with them on all important matters. As you know, he represents the Presidency of the Stake and the authority of the priesthood. If you sustain him with your faith and prayers, the Lord will magnify him in his calling. Ask of him and you will receive an inspired answer; knock at this door and it shall be opened to you; seek from this source and you shall find treasures of spiritual knowledge. And now, since I am your advisor for the time being, may I give you by way of suggestion a few of the thoughts that have come to me during the sessions of this splendid conference. As I listened this morning to the explanation of Commissioner Quinn of the elaborate program of relief which has been provided to take care of the poor in our County, and heard the fine compliment that he paid you for the efficient assistance that your great organization is rendering in this splendid work; I felt very proud to think that in a small way I was associated with you. I know that our Stake Relief Society deserves the high commendation which it received.
I DESIRE to stress another side of your work also which was not mentioned this morning. Your organization is more than one of the agencies for the distribution of food and clothing to the unemployed in our County. Jesus said: "And whosoever shall give a drink unto one of these little ones a cup of cold water only in the name of a disciple, verily I say unto you, he shall in no wise lose his reward." That phrase, "in the name of a disciple," makes all the difference in the world. It means that you are concerned with spiritual as well as temporal relief. Your work is "in the name of a disciple" and that is in harmony with the statement of the Prophet Joseph when he said, "This society should be not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." Bodily hunger needs to be relieved, and bodily nakedness covered, but starving souls and aching hearts must also be cared for. We should never forget that man does not live by bread alone, nor is fuel and clothing the only agencies that keep him warm. Neither the county nor the community chest, can minister to minds that are sick and discouraged no matter how efficiently they are operated. Only disciples of the Master, with loving hearts and tender hands can effectively minister to souls that grope in darkness. Only consecrated service can revive a faith that has been lost. This is the work of each and every member of the Relief Society. You are God's messengers of hope; you are his angels of mercy to homes that are starving for the word of God. And that reminds me of another significant statement which the Prophet made to members of your organization the day you were organized: "If you live up to your privileges"?notice he said privileges not duties?"the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates." I suggest that every officer, teacher and member of the Relief Society in this Stake remember that statement, and seek for that holy companionship. Certainly nothing is impossible for you to accomplish if an angel walks by your side. Every home you enter will feel a holy presence; every word you say will be a healing balm, an elixir of the life everlasting; and when you have finished your visit to that home, you will leave with it the halo of a benediction. Surely, never since the world began, has any organization ever been given a greater opportunity for holy service than has come to you. But you must be worthy of it. Angels walk only with the pure in heart. There must be no selfish motives in your ministry. You are giving your lives to a sacred cause, with no thought or expectation of earthly reward.
YOUR magazine contains elaborate outlines in theology, literature, and other subjects. I trust that your principal objective in studying these topics is a preparation for greater service in your organization. Not long ago a prospective missionary made the remark that he was going on a mission, not for the good that he expected to do others, but for the benefits he expected to get out of it himself. Such a motive can only result in failure. Our elders are called on missions, not for what they can get out of them for themselves, but for the welfare of others. They have a message for mankind, and to deliver that message effectively should be their sole objective. They are sent to save the souls of men, and any other purpose will be fatal to their success. The same is true in your case. It is impossible for you to be successful Relief Society workers, or expect angels to be your associates, unless the welfare of others is the central thought of all your activities.
I DESIRE especially to give a few words of encouragement to the visiting teachers. Perhaps many of you feel that your work is unimportant, and your calling of little consequence. Some of you may think that a position so insignificant requires no thought or preparation. This may be true if all you do is to visit the families in the wards each month and make a small collection of funds. But this is merely incidental. Really, there is no more important calling in the entire organization than yours, or one that furnishes greater opportunities for efficient service. Upon you rests the responsibility of seeking out, not only the poor and the needy, but the sick and discouraged. And you are to do more than find them, you are expected to cheer and comfort them, to say to them that: "The way at times may dark and dreary seem, No ray of sunshine on your path may beam The dark clouds hover o'er you like a pall, And gloom and sadness seem to compass all, But if with honest purpose you still toil on, And your steps be upright, straight and true, Far in the east a golden light shall dawn, And the bright smile of God shall burst through." Such words bring healing and comfort, when spoken by those who have faith in God and whose hearts are filled with love for his children. There is no higher ministry than yours if you carry the spirit of it with you into the homes you visit. You above all others are entitled to the companionship of the angels mentioned by the prophet, if you live up to the fulness of your calling. In conclusion, let me tell you about the ministry of a woman who appreciated her calling as a Relief Society teacher. She was modest and unassuming, and lacked many of the talents displayed by other sisters in the organization to which she belonged. It was impossible for her to express her thoughts before an audience. She couldn't sing or read well, and her memory always failed her when she was called to recite or take a part in any of the lessons. Often she became discouraged because of her failures and felt that she wasn't good for anything. But she never failed to make her monthly visits, and left every home where she called, happier because she had been there. People liked to have her come because she looked upon her calling as a privilege to be enjoyed, rather than a duty she had to perform. A young mother died in the Ward leaving three small children, one less than a week old. There was no nurse to be had, and during her sickness this Relief Society teacher left her own home and work to wait on the patient. When the woman died, under the direction of her president, she directed the sewing of the burial clothes and other things that needed to be done. Not only that, but after the funeral, she remained at the bereaved home, washed, dressed and fed the children, until the stricken husband could find other help. She did this, not for pay or expectation of any reward, but because she felt that her calling required it. When her bishop praised her for what she had done, she was surprised. "Why that was nothing," she said, "I was honored by being called as a Relief Society worker." She didn't know that she had done anything unusual. She only "honored her calling." What a wonderful statement! Surely when the Son of Man shall come in his glory to judge each of us, he will say to her, "Come ye blessed of My Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world; for I was hungry and ye gave me meat; I was thirsty and ye gave me drink; I was a stranger and ye took me in; naked and ye clothed me; I was sick and ye visited me; I was in prison and ye came unto me." And no doubt she will again be surprised and protest that she had never rendered such service to her Lord. And then will come the great revelation. "Inasmuch as ye did it unto the least of these my brethren, ye did it unto me." God grant that each of us because of our faithfulness by "honoring our calling" in rendering service to God's children, may also hear on the great judgment day the welcome words of our Lord: "Come ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world."