Presidency and General Board of Relief Society turn with gratitude to our Father in Heaven that we have been privileged to live at this time in the fulness of the gospel light. Thanksgiving fills our hearts that we have been granted the rare opportunity of associating with the women whose ideals of life and service are shaped by the spirit of Christ, and who express their love for Him in their untiring labors for the betterment of humanity. We realize that this year of all others, we need to cherish His precepts. We have all experienced the inspiration which comes from our visits to your stakes in conference conventions, and we are most appreciative of the beautiful hospitality offered ts in your homes. We are aware of your great loyalty to our Magazine, and the tireless efforts made to successfully pursue the lesson courses, and to cooperate in developing any project suggested by the General Board. We have noted your attitude of helpfulness and your anxiety to give the very best that is in you that the ideals of Relief Society might be materialized into tangible results. Often, we know that you have patiently labored with sad hearts and tired' hands to render the service required in these times of distress, and no cry for help has gone unheeded. From our hearts Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman we thank you; we honor you and we love you. At this New Year we pause for a moment to express our gratitude to all you dear Relief Society women for the glorious past of our organization, and we face the future with confidence and hope born of our faith in you and in the Gospel of our Savior, Jesus Christ. LOUISE Y. ROBISON, AMY BROWN LYMAN, JULIA A. CHILD, General Presidency of the Relief Society. B. Y. U. At Provo NE beneficial result of the depression is 'the increased attendance at colleges and universities. Students are learning how to live at a minimum cost and are preparing themselves for greater efficiency when opportunities for employment offer themselves. The Brigha