Elizabeth Fry, Quaker Prison Reformer By Arthur L. Beeley
"I was sick and ye visited me: I was in prison and ye came unto me."?Matt. 25:36.
AS this sketch is being written, two Southern prison officials are being tried for the murder of a youth who died recently in a "sweat-box" in a prison camp in Florida. The case, by no means an isolated one, has focussed our attention again on the cruel practices still existing in many American prisons. So that a brief discussion of the life and work of Elizabeth Fry, one of the most influential of all prison reformers and the most notable one of her sex, is therefore timely. Furthermore, our interest in the Quakers and their influence is keener than usual just now because of the fact that exactly two hundred and fifty years ago William Penn, a leading Quaker, sailed for America in quest of religious freedom; to establish and govern a colony without armies; to administer justice without oaths, and to subdue the Indians by kindness and square dealing.
IN order to understand and appreciate the work of Elizabeth Fry let us first consider the Quaker pattern of life which produced her. There is a popular view, held by most people, that the Quakers are distinguished chiefly by their puritanical dress, their biblical manner of speech ("thee," "thou," "thy," etc.), and their practice of worshiping in silence. These traits, however, are only surface differences. Much more fundamental are their religious beliefs and their moral scruples. From the outset the Quakers have insisted that the religious life can be achieved without the aid of sacrament or ceremonial, and that Christian fellowship demands no formal creed. They hold, too, that a spiritual experience is an individual affair, a matter of "direct access to God." It is therefore best promoted without priestly interference or the aid of a paid ministry. This personal nature of religious experience logically gave women an equal place with men in Quaker worship and later in their church organization. Due to their vigorous insistence that Christian doctrine should bear tangible fruit in Christian character and that salvation can be achieved in this life, not alone in the hereafter, the Quakers have always been keenly interested in the problems arising out of human association. They have opposed war and slavery, for example, and have promoted education and the more important philanthropic interests of their times.
While Quakerism began with George Fox, the son of a weaver, born at Fenny Drayton in Leicestershire in 1624, the movement itself, however, is largely one of the many by-products of the Reformation, that period of intense religious feeling in Europe which resulted in the establishment of various churches "protestant" to the Church at Rome. It was also about this time that the Authorized Version of the Bible was completed and everywhere became the subject of thought and discussion. In this atmosphere, surcharged with religious and political controversy, young Fox observed that in spite of much talk about religion there was little, if any, improvement in the lives of people. At the age of twenty-four he began to preach repentance, calling men away from forms and ceremonies and empty profession to "the spirit of truth in the inward parts." Fox soon attracted followers and his movement grew rapidly. With this growth the Quaker system of peculiar beliefs and practices began to take definite shape. Many of these beliefs were not wholly original with them, yet they were nowhere subscribed to in toto by any other sect. It was their indulgence in these practices and beliefs that brought them into conflict with the other churches and particularly with the crown, and was responsible for their later persecution. By this time they became definitely known as "Quakers," because of the marked physical expression of their religious emotions. The persecution of the Quakers during this period was bitter and malicious. They were accused of being Jesuits because they refused to take the oath abjuring the Pope. They were even prosecuted under the Blasphemy Acts. Their refusal to take the oath of allegiance to the Crown, their unwillingness to go to "church," their refusal to join the militia and to pay tithes, etc., resulted in their wholesale imprisonment and punishment. Hundreds of them were dispossessed of their property and many of them were transported to penal colonies. During the reign of Charles II, for instance, over four thousand Quakers were imprisoned. Four hundred of them, it is said, died in prison and hundreds of others died from violence at the hands of their persecutors. These facts undoubtedly explain why The Society of Friends, as the Quakers are correctly called, have in later years taken an active part in prison reform all over the world.
IT is a sociological truth that the survival of any social group depends upon the nature and combination of its distinctive folkways. These unique customs, however, are not always rational or important, at least judged by the standards of another group. The history of Quakerism furnishes ample proof of this fact. In the Quaker pattern, for instance, the aversion to the oath is very prominent. Like many another sect they find a scriptural basis for their peculiar belief. In this case they cite Matthew 5:34 which enjoins us to "swear not at all." Perhaps, too, the great amount of perjury in the law courts at the time justified their scruples in this regard. However we may disagree as to the importance of the matter, we are forced to admit the logic of their position, that to enforce truth-telling by means of an oath tends to create a double standard of truth-telling. The Quaker aversion to war, while sometimes fanatical, is much more justifiable. Hundreds of Quaker pacifists, it will be remembered, were imprisoned during the World War for refusing to bear arms. Again, their logic is flawless. They hold war is both "the outcome and the cause of ambition, pride, greed, hate and everything that is opposed to the mind of Christ; and that no end to be attained can justify the use of such means." The universal acceptance of this doctrine by the great nations of the western world would undoubtedly put an end to all war. With the decline of persecution the Quakers turned their attention to education, philanthropy and social reform. They abandoned their hostility to art and music and gave up their peculiar speech and dress. In addition to prison reform they have been active in promoting the improved care of the insane. The famous Retreat at York, for instance, was established in 1795 by William Tuke, a Quaker tea-merchant. The Quakers were also actively opposed to slavery. The Friends of Germantown, Pennsylvania in 1688, for instance, were the first religious group of any kind to protest against slavery. Elbert Hubbard once characterized Quakerism as "a protest against an idle, vain, voluptuous and selfish life. It is the natural recoil from insincerity, vanity and gourmandism which, growing glaringly offensive, causes these certain men and women to 'come-out' and stand for plain living and high thinking." While the Society of Friends is still a comparatively small sect, it nevertheless includes in its ranks some of the best-educated and many of the most socially-minded persons of our time. As a body of religious worshipers, Quakerism is undoubtedly on the decline, but as "an atmosphere, a method of approaching questions, a habit and attitude of mind," as Brayshaw puts it, it is by no means decadent.
SUCH was the culture pattern which, a century after Fox, produced the Gurneys, a typical Quaker family. Elizabeth, born in 1780, was the third daughter of John Gurney, a banker of Norwich. In her youth she joined in the social life of her time and, somewhat contrary to Quaker tradition, enjoyed music, dancing and pretty clothes. At the age of eighteen she experienced a sort of right-about-face, religiously. As a result of the preaching of an American Friend, Savery, and her own observations of public recreation in London, she definitely renounced "the pleasures of the world" and became quite puritanical. At nineteen years of age she established a Sunday school for village children at Earlham, where she read the scriptures and gave moral instruction. At twenty she married Joseph Fry, a merchant of some means, and settled in London. While the first ten years of her married life were given over largely to the rearing of her many children, she nevertheless spent much time and energy in religious work. Upon the death of her father, when she was twenty-nine, she became deeply moved to engage in the ministry, having experienced, as she put it, "the incomings of joy, love and peace."
IT was customary with the Quakers, as with other religious sects at this time, to make friendly visits to prisons. In 1813, two Friends, Stephen Grellet and William Forster, while visiting that famous bastille, Newgate, had observed the desperate condition of the women imprisoned there. It was their appeal to Elizabeth Fry, on behalf of these unfortunate creatures, that started her on her career of prison reform in the interest of the woman offender. Newgate at this time was the most celebrated of all English prisons. It was the catch-all for debtors, felons, and unconvicted alike. Its moral influence was particularly bad because all types were thrown together in large rooms, there being no system of separate cells, such as most prisons use today. It was in such a prison that Mrs. Fry began her work. Upon her first visit she found about three hundred women, many of them with their children, huddled together in two wards and two cells. There was no form of occupation, except begging. There were no bed clothes or night clothes, and all the women slept on the floor. They lived, cooked and washed in the same rooms. With the proceeds of begging, solicited through the gratings, many of the women bought liquor which, strangely enough, could be purchased from the prison "tap." Lawlessness inside the prison was so rife that the governor himself never went in alone. Visitors were always advised to leave their watches and money behind.
Elizabeth Fry set herself the immediate task of finding suitable clothing for the women, many of whom were half-naked. She paid regular visits to the prison and proposed the establishment of a school, a project which was accepted with avidity by the prisoners but only reluctantly by the management. While reading of the scriptures formed the basis of her educational work, the personal and impressive influence of Mrs. Fry was, no doubt, the real cause of her quick success. At this point her latent genius for organization and cooperation showed itself. She was able to interest many other women in her prison work, with the result that in 1816 an Association for the Improvement of Female Offenders in Newgate was founded. Under the aegis of this Association the improvement of conditions at Newgate went forward rapidly and a paid matron was soon appointed. Fresh from her success at Newgate, Mrs. Fry visited many of the other prisons in England, proffering advice on the management of women offenders and organizing local associations to carry on the work. An especially acute problem which she solved with characteristic success, about this time, was the improvement in the care of female felons en route to the penal colonies in Australia. It was customary in those days for convicted persons of both sexes to be "transported" by a licensed ship-owner who reimbursed himself for the cost of such transportation by virtually selling the convicts to anyone in these penal colonies who wanted their services. The conditions under which these journeys were made can best be imagined when it is remembered that the trip took from three to six months in sailing vessels. The reports of these successes traveled rapidly, with the result that Mrs. Fry was favorably?sometimes fearfully?received wherever she went. Just as John Howard, pioneer prison reformer, had done before, and as our own Dorothea Dix did later for the insane, Elizabeth Fry traveled widely on the Continent of Europe, often upon the invitation of a king or a queen, in pursuit of her one dramatic objective, namely, the welfare of the female offender. In the course of these journeys, interrupted as they were by domestic difficulties and her husband's bankruptcy, she visited Scotland, Germany, France, Holland and Denmark. Within eight years after her work began at Newgate, seventeen associations for the improvement of female offenders had been established in Great Britain and four in Europe.
DURING these years of intensive effort, Mrs. Fry was evolving what now may be regarded as certain fundamental principles of penology. Before a Committee of the House of Commons in 1818, she stated them briefly: 1, the classification of offenders according to age, sex and offense; 2, the provision of self-respecting work for all prisoners; 3, the supervision of female offenders by female officers; 4, systematic religious instruction. Whatever may be our doubts about the last-named of these principles, no one will doubt the validity of the first three, even today. The soundness of her views on these subjects and the clarity of their expression before the parliamentary committee, a hundred years ago, are historically significant. Her ideas regarding the "congregate" plan, for instance, are summed up tersely in her own words, as follows: "I believe the moral discipline of a prison can never be complete while they (the prisoners) are allowed to sleep together in one room. If I may be allowed to state it, I should prefer a prison where women were allowed to work together in companies, under proper superintendence, to have their meals together under proper superintendence, and their recreation also; but I would always have them separated in the night; I believe it would conduce to the health of body and mind. Their being in companies during the day, tends, under proper regulations, to the advancement of principle and industry, for it affords a stimulus. I should think solitary confinement proper only in very atrocious cases. I would divide my women for a few weeks till I knew what they were." Perhaps the most far-sighted of all her penological proposals has to do with the difficult problem of prison labor. She said: "My idea with regard to the employment of women is that it should be a regular thing, considering that there are so many to provide for. There is the army and the navy, and so many things required for them: why should not government make use of the prisoners? But I consider it of the utmost importance, and quite indispensable for the good conduct of such institutions, that the prisoners should have part of the earnings of their work for their own use; a part they might be allowed to take for tea, sugar, etc., but a part should be laid by, that there may be some provision for them when they leave the prison, without their returning to their immoral practices. * * *" No sounder policies of prison administration have ever been advanced by anyone in the last five hundred years. Even today, in the United States, we have not yet generally adopted the practice of paying prisoners a wage. We do lip-service to the principle, to be sure, but that is all.
TO attempt an appraisal of the life and labors of Elizabeth Fry is difficult and perhaps unnecessary. Suffice it to say that she was one of the soundest and most practical prison reformers of our time. She demonstrated also that it is possible for a woman to play her part in the great humanitarian work of the world without neglecting her home and children. She proved, too, that in promoting the interests of women it is not necessary to develop a hatred for and bitterness towards the male of the species. She was a credit to her sex.