Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
ENTER the New Year with a bold front. Forget the tragedies of yesterday. Be of good cheer and remember there is always a tomorrow.
THE Centenary of Louisa May Alcott, Nov. 29, 1932, was marked by many delightful testimonials. The most impressive perhaps, at the old Alcott home in Concord, where Meg, Joe, Beth and Amy came to life in a revival of the drama from "Little Women." Miss Alcott's stories for children with their wholesome lessons of loyalty and devotion are surely priceless treasures among home libraries.
QUEEN MARIE of Rumania has gone to a quiet retreat in the Carpathian Mountains to write her "Memoirs." We predict some interesting reading in a book containing incidents from so colorful a life.
KATHARINE BRUSH, Dorothy Canfield and Kay Boyle are the only women whose short stories are included in the O'Henry 1932 Memorial Award Prize Stories.
RUTH Chatterton, charming actress, is famed as a wearer of smart clothes, who refuses to pose for fashion pictures though she spends thousands on her personal wardrobe every year.
MARY PICKFORD as grand marshal of the Pasadena Tournament of Roses will surely be a lovely picture. She is the first of the theatrical world to be chosen for this honor.
HELEN HAYES was awarded the prize?a gold statuette?for giving the best individual screen performance of the year by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.
RUTH NICHOLLS had the honor to unveil the base of the shaft at Kitty Hawk, N. C., where the Wright Brothers made their first flight.
AMY JOHNSON made the latest sensation among women fliers when she out distanced her husband by several hours in her flight across the Sahara desert.
EVANGELINE ADAMS?famed astrologist?is dead. Her followers proudly say she predicted her death to the hour by the stars.
FREDA EHRMAN, who recently died, age 93, was the founder of California's ripe olive industry. She passed from poverty to wealth in 36 years through her own efforts.
MIRIAM FERGUSON has again been elected Governor of Texas and Mrs. Hattie Carraway won the election in Arkansas for Senator. The first woman ever elected to the United States Senate.
ELEANOR HOLMES HINDLEY'S new play, "Dear Jane," will please the lovers of Jane Austen's novels. The play opens with a prologue in London's Cheshire Cheese Tavern with Dr. Johnson, James Boswell, Joshua Reynolds and David Garrick. And then appears Jane Austen, age 23, who according to her historians had already written "Pride and Prejudice," "Sense and Sensibility," and was engaged on another novel. Rather daring for a young woman in 1775.