A Woman Who Has Learned How to Live By Sadie Adamson APPRECIATION where art thou hidden? In this modern age most people can spell the word but few enjoy its meaning. It was late in June when I entered the road that led to the old farmhouse wherein lived Mrs. Smith, owner of a small farm in central Utah. On arriving at the cottage I felt a sense of shyness, for I was a stranger and had heard the woman was deaf. She was quick to see however, for I had scarcely knocked when the door was immediately opened and the little woman smiling, bade me enter. I explained I had come for goose-feathers. I was surprised with the alertness of her movements as she produced two luxurious pillows. "Don't you get lonely on the farm?" I asked, by way of conversation. She smiled faintly as she pointed to her flower beds, her garden and her flock of geese. "With all this around I can hardly get lonesome," she replied. "You mean on account of my being deaf?" she questioned. "It bothered me some of course when I was young and raising a family. You see I was twenty-five when I contracted typhoid fever, and medical help was a luxury at that time, but I've been so glad it was my ears rather than my eyes. I've been able to do my bit in the world. I have cared for two children together with my ten and have never hired help. They are all splendid citizens. Keeping busy keeps one happy." "You have had education," I pointed out. 'You are one of the few women who know how to live." She smiled her appreciation. "I was born and raised across the water, and quit school at nine years of age. I acquired an education by degrees. I can quote most any scripture in the Bible," and motioning me to a little side door she bade me look at her library. Stack upon stack of magazines lay on the floor together with stacks of newspapers. At one side of the room stood a huge bookcase. Some of our best authors gleamed from its polished glass doors. She laughingly read a recent article on prohibition. I marveled at her perfect pronunciation and the rapidity with which she read. Her voice was low and well modulated, clear and rich. Although she is seventy-two years old I have never met a woman with a more cheerful outlook on life, nor one who had so thoroughly the gift of appreciation. Though her life has been hard, she carries a sweet spirit of contentment. Though she has had years of hard work and trials, her face is without a wrinkle. Rarely do we find this. The face is the index to the soul and I thought as I left the cottage, surrounded by nature's hand, I had never seen a sweeter face nor did I know of a better life, and the words of the poet came at my bidding. "God gave us life, not just to buy or sell And all that matters is to live it well." FACTS ABOUT SUGAR THE AMALGAMATED SUGAR COMPANY TWENTY MILLION DOLLARS, at least, will be distributed in Utah and Idaho this season by the beet sugar industry. It means more than $20.00 FRANKLIN COUNTY for every man, woman and child in these two SUGAR CO. Mt. Preston, Idaho This enormous amount of money represents the cost of producing and distributing 4,500,000 bags of sugar equal to 7,500 carloads of 600 bags each. GUNNISON SUGAR COMPANY 'Farmers have already received between six and eight million dollars for their beets. Further payments will depend on the final price obtained for this sugar. Other miscellaneous costs. SPRINGVILLE The beet sugar crop is literally an economic lifeSAVER in Utah and Idaho this year. The people realize this MAPLETON SUGAR CO. and knowing its quality is unsurpassed by any other sugar are demanding its universal use in this territory. This beet sugar is packed in original containers consisting of 100, 25, 10 and 5-lb. Cotton bags. When purchasing, insist on getting your sugar in original packages only. UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR CO. There is Nothing to Compare With Electric Service You don't have to save up to enjoy the comforts and economy of Electric Servants. Install an Electric Range, Electric Refrigerator, and Electric Water Heater now and your regular household budget will take care of the small monthly payments. UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Efficient Public Service When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Centerfield, Utah LAYTON SUGAR CO. Layton, Utah Springville, Utah More than eleven million dollars will be spent for labor, coal, coke, taxes, transportation, warehousing and Watch Your Step This Year and Get Full Value for Every Dollar Spent. Don't Just Buy?Life Insurance?Be Particular?You Want The Very Best So Insist On BENEFICIAL Life Insurance And Get More Value Per Dollar. OUR SAVINGS INVESTMENT PLAN? Creates An Immediate Estate, Gives Full Protection For Your Family An Income To You In Later Years. The One Place To Obtain Share In The Net Earnings Of The Big Home Company BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. HOME OFFICE?SALT LAKE CITY HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, General Manager If it's a Beneficial Policy it's the best Insurance you can buy