IN answer to the often repeated question, "What shall we do with Relief Society books that have been purchased by the Society?" we first call attention to the very fine account in the "Notes from the Field" (page 43 of this issue) given by the Cache stake. The General Board heartily endorses this plan, and has the following to suggest: A number of Relief Society organizations have been most successful in establishing small libraries, with a librarian in charge of the books. The books are distributed and exchanged weekly after the regular meeting. These societies are to be congratulated on this method and the amount of reading that has been accomplished by the members. We recommend this as being the very best method of caring for the books belonging to the Relief Society. First provide a place to keep the books, a shelf or shelves, according to the number of books; a shelf where they can be seen is better than a box. A good way to place them is alphabetically by author. It is necessary, when circulating them, to keep some kind of record, and a card is the handiest and easiest method. A card 5 x 3 inches with the author's name and title of the book written at the top may be placed in each book. The borrower writes her name on the card, and the date of taking it. The card is then filed, and when the book is returned the name is checked off and the card replaced in the book. If the officers feel it is best, where there is a public library in the town, the librarian might be glad to provide a place for Relief Society books where they may be kept during the time they are actively used. After that time the organizations may desire to turn them over to the librarian for permanent use. The seminary library is also a good depository if it is central enough. A list of all books placed in any library by the Relief Society should be posted in a prominent place in said library as a suggestion to the women who are in doubt as to what to read. The only justification in having a book is that it may be used, so don't store them away in boxes, or closets, to collect dust.
Magazine Subscriptions
IT is certainly a matter of congratulation when a ward or a stake can, under present conditions, report 100% subscriptions to the Magazine. It indicates a sincere appreciation of the value of the Magazine, and of the courage and energy of those responsible for its circulation in the stakes. The General Board offers sincere congratulations to all who have achieved this enviable record. A most remarkable record has been made in the San Francisco stake, with ten out of its thirteen wards securing 100% subscriptions.
[THIS IS TABLE: Ward membership and magazine subscription data for San Francisco Stake, showing Ward names, No. Membership, and No. Magazines Taken for various wards including Alameda, Balboa, Burlingame, etc.]
Blaine Stake Hagerman......33 33
Liberty Stake Eighth........101 101
Annie Smith, Agent for the 8th Ward, formulated the following 12 reasons for selling the Magazine:
1. It advertises our Organization.
2. It helps the lonely over sad hours.
3. It creates an interest in our lessons.
4. It is the one and only Magazine for L. D. S. Women.
5. It is worth twice the price we pay for it.
6. It takes us to Universities and all over the World.
7. It stimulates us to develop our talents.
8. It makes us proud of our membership In the Organization.
9. It gives us courage to go forward.
10. It brings joy in our hearts in reading the fine poetry.
11. It gives good wholesome reading for every member of the family.
12. We will know our Magazine.
Motto: "We will know our Magazine."
Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest
GREAT interest was again manifest in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poem Contest. There were 105 poems entered, and many of them were unusually good. The judges were Miss Dorothy Snow, of the English Department of the University of Utah; Mrs. Elsie Talmage Brandley, Associate Editor of the Era; and Mrs. Cora L. Bennion, of the  for "Sonnet of Loneliness." The second prize is awarded to Alberta Huish Christensen, of Long Island, New York, for "Full Measure." Honorable mention is given to Alveretta S. Engar, of Salt Lake City, for "I Didn't Dream;" to Miriam Jeanne Warnick, of Pleasant Grove, Utah, for "Life Perfect;" and to Claire Stewart Boyer, of Salt Lake City, for "Rebirth." We congratulate the winners and the sisters who submitted so many fine poems.
Notes from the Field
Bear River Stake.
BEAR River stake pays the following tribute to some of its Pioneer Relief Society women: "Sister Sophia Larson came as a convert to L. D. 'S. Church from her native country, Sweden, in the year 1892, with her husband and four small children. At that time she could neither read, write, nor speak a word of English. She says that through faith, prayer and determined effort she soon mastered the language. The family came to the Bear River Valley when it was a barren sage brush country. Sister Larson, a typical pioneer mother, through her_thrift, undaunted courage and very industrious nature, helped make a good comfortable home and living. Soon after she arrived she accepted the call of Relief Society teacher. This necessitated walking or driving a horse and buggy a distance of five or six miles over deep muddy or dry dusty roads, trailing through sections of sage brush land. She was sustained as president of the East Garland Ward Relief Society, December 18, 1904, when the ward was a part of Box Elder stake. Faithfulness to duty has been her outstanding characteristic. She does not ask of her co-workers what she would not do herself. Her seventy-five years do not prevent her from keeping abreast of the times. She is an ardent lover of Relief Society work in all lines, equally interested in the social, literary and theological lessons and the work and business of the Society. When sickness or death comes to any home, Sister Larson is among the first to offer solace and comfort. [She is an authority on scripture. The children, the young people and the older members of the ward alike claim her care. She brooks no delay in doing whatever is required of the sisters by the ward, stake or general authorities. "Tt is rather unusual that a president should Iabor so faithfully for twenty-eight consecutive years, and still maintain her efficiency. That she is loved and respected by her co-workers is attested by the fact that a splendid average attendance at the meetings has been maintained throughout the years. There have only been two changes in the Relief Society ward presidency during all this time. These were necessitated by the removal from the ward of Sister Eva M. Walker in October, 1909, and of Sister Jane Oyler in the fall of 1917. "Sister Anna W. Larson (not related) has served as first counselor to President Sophia Larson since the first organization, being a faithful, efficient worker. She has raised to maturity a family of seven children and yet never slackened in her Relief Society duties. "Sister Meda H. Sorensen has ably supported the two Sisters Larson since being sustained as second counselor November 6, 1917. Sister NOTES FROM THE FIELD 43 Birdie Hansen has been secretary since December 5, 1912, though the books were temporarily in charge of others during her illness of some duration. "One might well concede that Relief Society work makes better wives and mothers for all these noble unassuming women have raised, during their time of service, large families of splendid young men and women. "In March of this year, Sister, Larson's companion passed from this sphere of action. This left her alone in their home as all of their children have families of their own. Again her independent nature is shown by her decision to provide for herself. She says she prefers to maintain her own home and not be a burden to anyone as long as she has health and strength to carry on. "Such as these are God's choice mothers in Israel." Cache Stake. LIBRARY work in Cache stake, under the direction of President Lula Y. Smith, has been stressed the past year with the result that the stake and ward libraries are in much better shape. It was found that only a small percentage of the books purchased the past few years could be located. In many cases when they were received they were passed out to class leaders without any ownership stamped or written in, or any record made of whom they were loaned to. At the close of the year's work they were forgotten in the eagerness to present the new books. When new presidents were interviewed as to what books were turned over to them, most of them reported not any, or very few. When asked where the books were kept, they generally replied, "at the president's or class leader's home." After this investigation, stake and ward librarians were appointed. They first made a systematic search for books, labeled all of them in two places, and listed them in a book. Then each ward provided a suitable book case with a lock and was kept in the Relief Society room. Now each meeting day the librarian has a table where she displays the books before and after meeting, and the sisters are urged to borrow them, even the ones that are in use this year by class leaders, are found a part of each month, available to the sisters. Some of the aggressive librarians have had the women donate a book and have taken over the Mutual books, and have borrowed as many as twenty-five or thirty from the public library for three months at a time.: One librarian in a small ward reports that she is beset by the whole ward to loan them books, and possibly she can open a small library in her home. The sisters appreciate this very much, for in many wards there is no public library, and too often the women are busy and live far from the city library and their visits are not very frequent. However, they love to read, and good books should be as available to them as food at the corner grocery. Occasionally the librarian has five minutes to briefly introduce a book or name over those available. The hope is to have the women wait after meeting long enough to sign for a book to carry home with them. St. George Stake. HE St. George Stake Relief Society held its annual conference convention November 20, 1932, in St. George. In connection with the convention the stake sponsored an exhibit featuring the Work and Business Meeting. This was held 44 RELIEF SOCIETY in the Dixie College Science Building. The wards of the stake sent in marvelous contributions. Each ward had an outstanding display quilt, and other beautiful practical ones, showing woman's desire to ever express the beautiful. There were five exquisite two-toned silk quilted spreads, twelve appliqued and eighty-two pieced quilts. The made over corner was one of the most interesting and pleasing. By the large number of articles displayed, it showed the mothers were adequately meeting the clothes problem for this year. There were many picturesque and useful rugs, conserving what would otherwise be waste. Elaborate bed-spreads that must have taken courage to commence, and all kinds of art needlework, from the colorful cosy corner of sofa pillows, to the hand-embroidered curtains, pillow _ slips, covers and novelties, added to the charm of the collection. In the antique room, as it was called, were many articles of great historic interest. Among these was a spread made for Elizabeth Scearce Seany in Indiana, by David J. Graves in the year 1839. She had it with her when she was driven from her home in Nauvoo. There was also a well preserved quilt with exquisite workmanship and design that had been in her hope chest in 1845. Lucy Keates' spread was made 65 years ago, and Mary S. Rencher's quilt 58 years, and Grandma Crosby's patchwork quilt 55 years ago. There was a quilt bought by George Jarvis 60 years ago from the tithing office for $10.00. It was made and donated by the Pinto Relief Society to the St. George Temple then in course of construction. The cleverly designed spread of Mary McArthur's was made by her 50 years ago out of cotton grown locally, the thread was made in Washington MAGAZINE factory. There was a piece of silk woven by Mary Jarvis 35 years ago. She had grown the silk worms, reeled the thread from the cocoons, and woven the silk. Some handmade pillow slips were on display. These were made by Eleanor E. Bigler in 1858, from cotton raised by her father, from which she spun the thread to make the five inch lace on the hem. A unique bed spread was made from friendship blocks given to Anna L. Ivins, mother of - President Anthony W. Ivins. These were sewed together by her granddaughter, Mrs. Lutie Lytle, after Sister Ivins' death. Each block was made by a relative or friend in Toms River, Ocean Park, New Jersey, in 1842, and their names are still plainly stamped, making it a real source of genealogy. This was brought to St. George in 1860 by Sister Ivins, who was the second stake president of the St. George Relief Society. A black silk embroidered shawl, owned by Mrs. Sarah Redfield in Lodi, Cataraugus County, New York, over a hundred years ago, came to New York in a sailing vessel from Japan, and found its way across the plains. A group of dear old-fashioned baby clothes presented a glimpse of the past. A feeling of tenderness was expressed in the old paisley shawls, as in fancy one could see the faces of the dear ones who had worn them. There was a parasol of Mrs. Elizabeth Wallis', the frame of which was made by her father, and covered by her mother in London eighty years ago. Of great interest was a sampler made by Rachel Brownet in 1835, in the Gloucester Infirmary, when she was 8 years old, also another by Anna L. Ivins in 1827, and one by her daughter, Caroline Augusta Pace, in 1859, showed what the girls of long ago used to do. There was Cora S. Hagan's coverlet NOTES FROM THE FIELD 45 Most a hundred years old," a genuine handmade article, made in Ohio. Besides these treasures mentioned there were many other things of interest, pictures of the past and evidences of the present skill and energy of Relief Society women. Liberty Stake. D URING the summer Liberty stake Relief Society completed a fine project in leadership. An ambitious group of stake and ward officers and teachers met every Mon- (lay morning for twelve weeks to study the qualities and problems of leaders. They used a text-book and followed a careful plan aimed to develop the best attitudes, aims and activities for women conducting the affairs of Church organizations. The instructor was Claire Stewart Boyer. The enthusiasm with which the project progressed led to a repetition of the course, with an additional course in public speaking. North Weber Stake. NE of the most delightful anniversary celebrations was held in the North Weber stake during the year 1932. The pageant, "Ninety Years of Relief Society," was staged by the sisters of the Relief Society. The lines were written by Mrs. Laura M. Jenkins. This was a very comprehensive panorama of events in the history of Relief Society. It was presented first on June 8, 1932, and repeated by request on June 15, at the Weber County High School Building in Ogden, Both performances were given to crowded houses. President Julia E. Parry and her very able board were responsible for this excellent entertainment. The above picture represents the cast of characters. The presidency and Link Tiffany Studios. 46 RELIEF SOCIETY stake board of Relief Society impersonated the women of the past and the allegorical figures. Granite Stake. Mest gratifying results have followed the very successful kindergarten organized by the Wasatch Ward Relief Society. This worthwhile arrangement enables many mothers to participate in class MAGAZINE work while their children receive supervised instruction in work and play. The group, under the able direction of Sister Dorothy Morgan Hollberg, has an average attendance of 20 children, and is conducted in an attractive room decorated and furnished by the Relief Society for this special purpose. The accompanying pictures are two snap shots of the little ones and their instructor.