Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony: (First Week in March)
COMING FORTH OF THE BOOK OF MORMON
LESSON VI
1. Obtaining the Plates. For some time prior to September 22, 1827?the date upon which the Prophet received the Nephite plates from the Angel Moroni?it was necessary for the male members of the Smith family to obtain occasional work away from their farm, that they might sustain themselves and meet the annual payments on their land. For this purpose, in October of 1825, Joseph had employed himself to a Mr. Josiah Stoal, of Bainbridge, New York, who at the time was engaged in opening a supposedly Spanish mine, long since abandoned. While engaged in this work Joseph boarded at the home of Mr. Isaac Hale, who lived at Harmony, Pennsylvania, a short distance from the scene of Mr. Stoal's operations.
2. It was here that Joseph first met Miss Emma Hale, whom he subsequently married, January 18, 1827. Shortly after their marriage, Joseph and his wife went to the Smith home at Manchester, where Joseph assisted his father on the farm during the following summer.
3. In the early morning of September 22, 1827, Joseph received the plates from the Angel Moroni, and a few days later brought them to the home of his father, where he and Emma were still living. (For a full account of the manner in which the Prophet received the plates, the reader is referred to Joseph Smith the Prophet, by his mother, Lucy Mack Smith, pp. 99-106.) Joseph records that no sooner had he received the plates than the most strenuous efforts were made to wrest them from him. With the passing of time persecution rapidly became more bitter, and eventually, at the invitation of Mr. Hale, Joseph and his wife decided to move to Harmony, Pennsylvania.
4. Move to Harmony. It should be said that Joseph was in humble financial circumstances and was not well prepared to make the journey. Shortly before the date set for leaving, however, a friendly neighbor came to his support with a gift of fifty dollars?this was Martin Harris, a respectable and prosperous farmer of Palmyra. Alvah Hale, a brother of Joseph's wife, came from Harmony with team and wagon and conveyed them to that place. They arrived at Harmony in the month of December, 1827, and established themselves in a house located on Mr. Hale's farm.
5. The Anthon Incident. Immediately after establishing himself at this place, Joseph began to transcribe characters from the plates. His own account of this very important matter is tersely recorded as follows: "I commenced copying the characters off the plates. I copied a considerable number of them, and by means of the Urim and Thummim I translated some of them." (History of the Church, Vol. 1, p. 19.) Some time in February of the following year, 1828, Martin Harris came to Harmony, and therewith conveyed the characters to New York City, where they were submitted to Professor Charles Anthon?a gentleman of outstanding literary attainment?for his study and opinion. (For an account of the outcome of this visit the reader is referred to the History of the Church, Vol. 1, p. 20; and the Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. 1, pp. 99-109.)
6. Loss of the Manuscript. After returning from New York, Martin Harris went to his home in Palmyra and a little later came back to Harmony (April 12, 1828) where for some two months thereafter he acted as scribe while Joseph translated the plates. By the early part of the following June, sufficient of the record had been translated to cover one hundred sixteen pages of foolscap paper.
7. Prompted by a desire to convince his wife and friends that Joseph's claims were genuine, Martin Harris repeatedly requested the Prophet to allow him the privilege of taking the manuscript home. Finally Joseph reluctantly granted Martin's request, with the distinct understanding and agreement that the manuscript was to be shown only to Martin's wife and a few others. Martin however disregarded this bounden promise, and the manuscript was lost. Because of Joseph's lack of wisdom in this connection, the Lord temporarily deprived him of the gift of translation and otherwise gave evidence of his displeasure. The revelation contained in Section three shows forth the will of the Lord in this matter.
8. The Lord's Provision. Now, it so happened in the wisdom of the Lord that when the Nephite historian Mormon was about to deliver his abridgment of the Nephite record to his son Moroni, in the fourth century of the Christian era, he discovered a set of plates, known as the plates of Nephi, which so pleased him that he decided to preserve them with his abridgment. His reason for doing so he did not know, except, as he says, he was so prompted by the Spirit of the Lord. (See Words of Mormon, verses 3-10.) In consequence of the preservation of these plates, the record delivered to Joseph Smith by the angel Moroni contained a double account from the beginning of Nephite history down to the reign of King Benjamin. But now let us return to the narrative.
9. A short time after the loss of the manuscript, the Lord made it known unto the Prophet that his adversaries, into whose hands the manuscript had fallen, had already changed it for the purpose of showing, if he attempted a second translation, that he could not translate twice alike and therefore that he had no gift from God. To avoid such a snare, the Lord instructed the Prophet to make his second translation from the plates of Nephi. (Read Doc. And Cov. 10:38-46.) It is interesting to observe that provision for just such a necessity was made by the Nephite historian more than fourteen hundred years earlier.
10. Even though Martin Harris had broken his covenant and promise, which resulted in the loss of the manuscript, yet the Lord promised him, by revelation through the Prophet Joseph, that if proved worthy, he would later be permitted to see the plates and act as a witness of their truth to the world. (Ibid. 5:1-15.)
11. Translation of the Plates. Throughout the winter and early spring of 1828-29, Oliver Cowdery, a young man of about Joseph's age, was teaching school in the vicinity of the Smith home at Manchester. In harmony with the custom of those days, the teachers usually "boarded round" with the patrons of the school. Accordingly, while at the Smith home, Oliver Cowdery became greatly interested in the story of Joseph's heavenly manifestations, and decided that as soon as his school closed in the springtime he would visit Joseph at Harmony and obtain first-hand information for himself. In the meantime Oliver had declared his purpose to one of his acquaintances, David Whitmer, and promised that after visiting with Joseph he would write him his impressions. Oliver Cowdery reached Harmony, Pennsylvania, April 5, 1829, and two days later (April 7th) Joseph began the work of translation, with Oliver acting as his scribe. A revelation soon followed, in which the Lord commended Oliver for his willingness to serve, and promised him inheritance in the kingdom of heaven, provided he continue faithful. (Ibid. 6:14-37.)
12. Movement to Fayette. The work of translation continued without serious interruption until early in the month of June (same year), when Joseph found it inadvisable to remain longer at Harmony. It appears that not only many of the people of the neighborhood were unsympathetic with him but also his wife's father, Mr. Hale. In the meantime Oliver Cowdery had been in communication with David Whitmer at Fayette. He now wrote him again at the Prophet's suggestion, requesting that he come down to Harmony and convey them to the Whitmer home. This request found David in the midst of his spring work, in the completion of which he claims to have received superhuman aid. A short time later, therefore, David Whitmer went to Harmony and conveyed the Prophet and Oliver back to the home of his father, Peter Whitmer, in the township of Fayette, New York, some twenty-five miles southerly from the Smith home in Manchester. Here the work of translation was soon completed.
13. The Three Witnesses. In course of the work of translation it was learned from the statement of Moroni (Ether 5:1-4) that the Lord intended to show the plates to three witnesses, by whose testimony the truth of the Book of Mormon would be established. Almost immediately after this statement had been discovered, Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer, and Martin Harris requested the Prophet to inquire of the Lord if they might act as these especial witnesses. Joseph complied with their request and received as an answer the revelation designated as Section seventeen in the Doctrine and Covenants. Shortly thereafter, these three men, with Joseph, repaired to a section of the woods "convenient to" the Whitmer home, where they saw the plates and heard a voice from heaven declaring: "These plates have been revealed by the power of God, and they have been translated by the power of God. The translation of them which you have seen is correct, and I command you to bear record of what you now see and hear." (For a further account see History of the Church, Vol. 1, pp. 54, 55.) The fidelity of the witnesses to this trust is a matter of history.
14. Publication of the Book of Mormon. After the Book of Mormon was translated, difficulty was encountered in obtaining a publisher. Finally, however, an agreement was made with Mr. Egbert B. Grandin of Palmyra, whereby he was to print an edition of five thousand copies for the sum of three thousand dollars, Martin Harris acting as surety for the payment of this amount. In this connection it is well to remember that Martin Harris had already shown his willingness in various ways to assist the Prophet. Indeed, it was he who first came to the Prophet's aid and furnished him with fifty dollars with which to move from Manchester to Harmony. Shortly later than this the Lord gave a revelation to Joseph Smith in which he counseled Martin to be free in the use of his money when the time should come for publishing the Book of Mormon. (Doc. And Cov. 19:36.) His readiness to comply with the commandment is thus fully attested. It is interesting to note that his farm was subsequently sold to satisfy this agreement with the printer. Little wonder that Deity is willing to bless an individual of such outstanding integrity!
15. As a precaution against any possible loss or alteration of the manuscript, Oliver Cowdery transcribed it in its entirety and kept a guard constantly on watch, day and night, about the house. The completed book came from the press in the early part of 1830.
Questions for Discussion and Review
1. Relate the circumstances under which Joseph became acquainted with Miss Emma Hale?later his wife.
2. What reasons prompted Joseph to leave Manchester and go to the home of his wife's father at Harmony, Pennsylvania?
3. In what way was Martin Harris responsible for the loss of the one hundred sixteen pages of manuscript?
4. How had the Lord made provision for this loss?
5. Discuss Oliver Cowdery's connection with the translation.
6. Relate incidents connected with the publishing of the Book of Mormon.
Teachers' Topic
THE BEATITUDES
Aim: To enable us to more fully appreciate the Beatitudes, and apply their beautiful truths to our daily lives.
"Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God." (Matt. 5: 8.)
A man's heart is pure when it loves only the good, when all its motives are right, and when all its aspirations are after the noble and true. Purity and excellence of character are of greater worth than any amount of grace, wealth, genius or power. Without a solid, sterling basis of individual goodness, all the grace, elegance and art in the world fail to save or elevate a people. The New Testament insists on personal purity as the beginning of all training and all knowledge. Such men as Paul and Peter and the others who changed the world, insisted on personal purity. They meant that a man's body should be so pure as to be a fit temple for the Spirit of God. The 15th Psalm has sung the purification of life and humility of heart which might fit him who should sojourn in God's tabernacle. Since the 24th and 25th Psalms also describe purity as preparation for God's house, the conclusion here is natural, they shall see God. Those who cleanse their hearts understand God in proportion to their purity, and, when they are cleansed from all sin, will see Him face to face. (Heb. 12:14; John 3:2-3; Rev. 22:4.) "Verily, thus saith the Lord, it shall come to pass that every soul who forsaketh his sins and cometh unto me, and calleth on my name, and obeyeth my voice, and keepeth my commandments shall see my face and know that I am." (Doc. And Cov. 93:1.) Jesus tells us that purity of heart leads to a knowledge of God. The perfect knowledge of God is to be attained only by the perfectly consecrated life. The human soul is a mirror on which the light of God shines and only the pure mirror reflects a perfect image. You cannot see God as directing you in your perplexing experiences except through a perfectly purified heart. Just as the slightest speck or flaw on the lens of a huge telescope blurs the image of far distant stars, so the films on the object-glass of character obscure the heavenly vision. Just as new stars may be discovered by the eye through the perfect lens, so the truth, undiscernible to others, is revealed to the pure in heart. President Brigham Young tells us that the prayer of the pure in heart will have more effect than the eloquence of Cicero. The simple honest heart is of more avail with the Lord than all the pomp, pride, splendor and eloquence produced by men. "In addressing a congregation, though the speaker be unable to say more than half a dozen sentences, and those awkwardly constructed, if his heart is pure before God, those few broken sentences are of more value than the greatest eloquence without the Spirit of the Lord and of more real worth in the sight of God, angels, and all good men." (Discourses of Brigham Young.) This does not mean that we cannot have the Spirit of the Lord unless we speak in "awkwardly constructed sentences." What a happy combination to have a certain amount of eloquence along with purity of heart and the Spirit of the Lord! Our abilities or gifts were given us by our Heavenly Father. (James 1: 17.) Therefore let us develop our gifts in His work! (Heb. 13:21.)
Literature
THE DELIGHT OF GREAT BOOKS
(Third Week in March)
ROMEO AND JULIET. SHAKESPEARE
"Let me not to the marriage of true minds Admit impediments. Love is not love Which alters when it alternation finds, Or bends with the remover to remove:?
"O no! It is an ever-fixed mark That looks on tempests, and is never shaken; It is the star to every wandering bark, Whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken.
"Love's not Time's fool, though rosy lips and cheeks Within his bending sickle's compass come; Love alters not with his brief hours and weeks, But bears it out even to the edge of doom:?
"If this be error, and upon me proved, I never writ, nor no man ever loved." ?Shakespeare.
When the great Love Story of the World is written the love of Romeo and Juliet will have a place, because Shakespeare in immortalizing the medieval love-legend made it the universal expression of young love.
William Shakespeare (1564-1616.) Probably no other English author has been so much written about as Shakespeare, and yet little is actually known of his life. A large mass of tradition, however, has come down to us. Of Shakespeare's ancestry we know that he came of good yeoman stock. His father was a merchant of Stratford-on-Avon, in Warwickshire, England. His mother's family were prosperous farmers. Stratford-on-Avon is the chief memorial spot for the "Bard of Avon." Here may be seen the house where he was born. Here is the grammar school he attended until thirteen years of age, learning little "Latin and less Greek" but revelling in the Mystery and Miracle plays held on holiday occasions in the great beamed room over the guild hall. Here, too, is the church where he was baptized and where he was buried in the chancel under the stone bearing the famous verse: "Good friend for Jesus' sake forbeare, To dig the dust enclosed heare; Blest be the man that spares these stones; And curst be he that moves my bones." Just outside of Stratford is the cottage of Anne Hathaway, whom Shakespeare married when he was nineteen. At Stratford, also, is the site of New Place, the beautiful home Shakespeare built when he returned from London a wealthy man. Of the London life of England's greatest poet we know little. Legend has supplied much of what we know of the best years of Shakespeare's life. The theatres where he acted in minor roles and the ones in which he held part ownership left very meager records of his activities. It would seem valid to assume that at first Shakespeare became an actor under the leadership of Richard Burbage, who presented plays at the Globe and other London theatres. After a while, Shakespeare began his first experiments in dramatic writing, the remodeling of early Elizabethan plays. Then came twenty years of authorship with an average of two plays a year in addition to many poems. The earlier dramas are simple comedies and tragedies, the best known being "A Midsummer Night's Dream," and "Romeo and Juliet." Then came a series of historical plays dealing with English history as "Henry IV" and "Henry V," and with Roman history as "Julius Caesar." The note of tragedy dominated Shakespeare's next plays as human sentiments and passions were portrayed in "Hamlet," "King Lear," "Macbeth," "Othello," and "Antony and Cleopatra." Shakespeare's final dramatic activity reveals a peace of mind, a serene thoughtfulness, attained through a wide and deep understanding of human nature. The romantic plays of the last period "Cymbeline," "A Winter's Tale," and "The Tempest" are marked with a delicacy of touch and mastery of character portrayal such as no other English writer has attained. Shakespeare as actor, as author, as theatre owner gave no thought to future fame; for other than in his sonnets he never wrote about himself; nor even took precaution to have his plays put in permanent form. We do know, however, that his plays were popular and yielded him a fortune. At the age of fifty he returned to his native town to spend his remaining years in comfort as a country gentleman.
The Genius of Shakespeare. Mystery surrounds much of the life of Shakespeare, but the evolution of his mind and art lies plainly revealed in his works. He learned to understand Nature, material and human. The early plays are marked with the influence of external Nature. He learned to understand human nature, "the workings of the mind and the emotions of the heart." Whatever base and unlovely he found in life as the product of evil in the universe, his belief in the divinity of man gleams like a beacon light in his works: "What a piece of work is man! How noble in reason! How infinite in faculties! In form and moving, how express and admirable! In action how like an angel! In apprehension, how like a god! The beauty of the world! The paragon of animals!" From the works of the masters of wisdom and literature Shakespeare learned many of the facts of life in other ages and climes. Upon assuming the role of artist, an interpreter of Nature, Shakespeare chose drama as the chief literary vehicle for his philosophy, and created characters, men and women, ghosts and witches, monsters and fairies, as its exponents. One by one the great destructive forces of life were dealt with producing "perhaps the richest and most varied mass from the genius of one man in the total literature of the world." Matthew Arnold, English poet and critic, pays tribute to the genius of Shakespeare in the following sonnet:
SHAKESPEARE
"Others abide our question. Thou art free. We ask and ask?Thou smilest and art still, Out-topping knowledge. For the loftiest hill, Who to the stars uncrowns his majesty, Planting his steadfast footsteps in the sea, Making the heavens of heavens his dwelling-place, Spares but the cloudy border of his base To the foiled searching of mortality;
"And thou, who didst the stars and sunbeams know, Self-schooled, self-scanned, self-honoured, self-secure, Didst tread on earth unguessed at.?Better so!
"All pains the immortal spirit must endure, All weakness which impairs, all griefs which bow, Find their sole speech in that victorious brow."
Romeo and Juliet. Shakespeare took a simple medieval love-story and made it reveal his understanding of love, a universal experience. Love, as he understood it was the intelligent attraction and sympathy which exists between man and woman. It was not the outcome of physical passion, nor a state of negation, nor a delusion of the mind. The tragic story of Romeo and Juliet, as Shakespeare immortalized it, reveals the spiritual basis of the noble passion Love. The story of Romeo and Juliet came from Italy; it was recorded in the national memorials of her old family feuds. A favorite with the troubadours, the story was carried to France, Spain, and England. The English version was made by Arthur Brooke in the form of a long narrative poem. To make his drama Shakespeare combined the details of the English story, the Italian atmosphere of the original story, and the two conflicts, youth and age, love and hate. The two chief families of Verona, the Capulets and the Montagues, have a feud of long standing. No one remembered when the quarrel began, but so deadly is the enmity between them, that the kindred, followers, and servants never meet without conflict. As the drama opens the servants of the two houses are feeding the "cankered hate" of their masters on the streets of Verona. Romeo, the heir of the house of Montague, is brooding over his imagined love for Rosaline, a cold beauty forswearing love. Benvolio, Romeo's friend, urges him to attend a great feast given by the old Lord Capulet, and meet the admired beauties of Verona and peradventure find "his swan a crow." To the feast then Romeo and his two friends, Benvolio and Mercutio, repair wearing masks. At the festivities Romeo sees a lady whose beauty and grace set his heart aflame with love, real not imagined. While discussing the charms of the lady with his friends, he is overheard by Tybalt, a nephew of Lady Capulet. Tybalt is enraged at this affront by a Montague, and it is only the kindly interference of Lord Capulet that averts a duel. Later in the evening Romeo contrives to talk to the fair lady and with loving conceits sets her heart aflame. It is only after the lovers separate that they learn each other's identity. Upon returning home after the feast, Juliet repairs to the balcony of her room to tell the secret of her love to the night. Romeo, in turn, is wandering alone in the night brooding now over his very real love. As he wanders under the balcony of his loved one, he hears her beautiful and intense confession of love: "O Romeo, Romeo! Wherefore art thou Romeo? 'Tis but thy name that is my enemy; Thou art thyself though, not a Montague. What's a Montague? What's in a name? That which we call a rose, By any other name would smell as sweet; So Romeo would, were he not Romeo called, Retain that dear perfection which he owes Without that title;?Romeo, doff thy name; And for that name, which is no part of thee, Take all myself." Overjoyed, Romeo reveals his presence, and Juliet makes a further avowal of her love: "My bounty is as boundless as the sea, My love as deep; the more I give to thee The more I have, for both are infinite." The tragic reality of the night's events flashes upon Juliet. Their love is surrounded by hate and discord. With ingenious delicacy she suggests the only solution to the love-dazed Romeo: "And all my fortunes at thy foot I'll lay, And follow thee, my lord, throughout the world." When the lovers parted, Romeo goes to the cell of Friar Laurence. The good friar, a friend to both the quarreling families, is anxious to see the breach healed between the Capulets and the Montagues, so thinking that the marriage of Romeo and Juliet might accomplish this purpose, he consents to perform a secret ceremony. The day of the secret marriage, the friends of Romeo, Benvolio and Mercutio, meet a band of Capulets headed by Tybalt. A quarrel is in progress as Romeo arrives on the scene. Not wishing to quarrel with a Capulet now, Romeo tries to reason with Tybalt, but to no avail. Mercutio, who knows nothing of Romeo's reason for seeking peace, looks upon his friend's tolerance as cowardice. And in exasperation at Tybalt's continued insults, Mercutio fights and is killed. Romeo fights now to avenge the death of his friend, and Tybalt is killed. The broil brings the governing prince of Verona and the old lords Capulet and Montague to the scene. Lady Capulet in revenge for the death of her nephew demands the extreme penalty for the murderer. The prince after a careful investigation of the facts pronounces the sentence of banishment for Romeo. Juliet at her home after the secret marriage awaits the coming of night that will bring Romeo with plans for their future. The old nurse brings the news of Tybalt's death and Romeo's banishment. Romeo, in the meantime, takes refuge with Friar Laurence. From frantic despair Romeo is lifted by the comforting words of his friend. After all his beloved Juliet is alive and he also is alive. The friar suggests that Romeo go secretly and take leave of Juliet, and then go to Mantua and wait until an announcement of the marriage could be made. Romeo passes the night with his beloved Juliet. With strange forebodings of ill they say their farewells as: "Night's candles are burnt out, and jocund day Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops." To be found within the walls of Verona after daybreak meant death for Romeo. A few days after Romeo's departure a new problem is added to Juliet's grief. Lord Capulet arranges a marriage for Juliet with her cousin Paris, a gallant young nobleman. Lord Capulet is old, self-willed, and tyrannical, to whom his daughter is but a property of his house. Lady Capulet is a proud Italian matron, much younger than the husband she has not married for love. Juliet pleads with her cold unsympathetic parents: "Good father, I beseech you on my knees, Hear me with patience, but to speak a word." "O sweet my mother, cast me not away, Delay this marriage for a month, a week," Juliet pleads every reason against the marriage but to no avail. She is commanded to prepare for the nuptials. In desperation Juliet turns to the old nurse who knows all. A gross suggestion, to forget the secret marriage with Romeo and marry Paris, meets this plea. Juliet in magnificent strength struggles alone with her problem. Death and suffering she is ready to brave "to live an unstained wife." In her despair Juliet consults Friar Laurence. His advice is to consent to marry Paris, but before the wedding morn to drink a potion which will give her the semblance of death for forty-two hours. Romeo is to be advised of the plans so that he will be on hand to rescue Juliet from the tomb when she awakes. Love gave Juliet strength to consent to the friar's plans. Juliet's consent to marry Paris is joyful news to Lord Capulet. Preparations are made for a nuptial festival such as Verona has never seen. The time arrives for Juliet to drink the potion. Alone in her chamber in fancy she conjures up all kinds of hideous possibilities as the result of the untried potion. In imagination she sees Tybalt's ghost seeking out Romeo. All fears desert her. To stay by Romeo she drains the phial calling? "Stay, Tybalt, stay! Romeo, I come! This do I drink for thee." Confusion reigned in the house of Capulet on the wedding morn. Instead of a beautiful bride there was a lifeless corpse; instead of wedding cheer there was a burial feast. The body was borne, after the manner of the time, on an uncovered bier and placed in the family vault. Bad news travels more swiftly than good. Before Friar Laurence had a chance to notify Romeo of the plans, other messengers advise him of Juliet's death. Making his plans quickly, Romeo seeks an apothecary so as to purchase some poison: "There is thy gold; worse poison to men's souls, Doing more murders in this loathsome world Than these poor compounds that thou mayst not sell: I sell thee poison, thou hast sold me none. Come, cordial, and not poison, go with me To Juliet's grave." Romeo sets out for Verona to see Juliet in her tomb, then to swallow the poison and lie by her side. At the door of the tomb Romeo meets Paris, who has come to strew flowers and to sorrow alone. Thinking it to be some villain come to desecrate the tomb, Romeo kills Paris. When Romeo discovers that he has killed Paris who should have married Juliet, according to the news of the messenger, he carries him to a grave by Juliet. Romeo takes a loving farewell of his loved Juliet and swallowing the poison dies by her side. Friar Laurence has found out that his messenger has not reached Romeo, so he arrives at the tomb to be ready for the awakening of Juliet. There he finds that "a greater power than his has thwarted his plans." Juliet awakes out of the trance and calls for Romeo. The friar tries to persuade Juliet to leave the tomb but in vain. Hearing a noise of people coming the friar flees; Juliet kills herself with a dagger and dies by Romeo's side. A great multitude has assembled at the tomb by this time. To the old lords, the friar relates the story of their children's love. The prince rebuked the old rivals for their irrational enmities, and showed them the punishment for their hatred. The tragedy appeases the ancient enmity of the houses of Capulet and Montague. Montague will raise in pure gold a statue of the true and faithful Juliet; Capulet will place one as rich of Romeo by her side. The tale is one of true love and sorrow. Romeo and Juliet loved perfectly. Romeo attained to manhood; Juliet to heroic womanhood. Their lives accomplished the reconciliation of their two families. A soft melancholy is left within the heart of the listener as the story ends, and a long sigh of understanding accepts its wisdom, "Life is but an ill constructed play without Love."
Suggestions for Study.
A. Materials.
1. Romeo and Juliet ?Shakespeare.
2. The Delight of Great Books ?Erskine.
3. Shakespeare, His Mind and Art?Dowden.
4. Shakespeare?Masefield.
5. The Facts about Shakespeare ?Nelson and Thorndike.
B. Projects.
1. Music: Selections from the opera "Romeo and Juliet."
2. Readings: a. The Balcony Scene, "The noblest paean to love ever written."?Helena Faucit, famous Shakespearean actress of the role of Juliet. b. Juliet's Soliloquy. Act III, Scene 3.
3. Discussion: a. The Elizabethan Age. b. The Genius of Shakespeare.
4. Story: The World's Great Love Stories. a. Dante and Beatrice. b. Abelard and Heloise. c. Tristram and Iseult.
C. Method.
The projects listed above present some possibilities for enrichment. Let the lesson, however simple, breathe the message of the spiritual nature of love. The problem of the drama is as modern as the present hour. Age and youth have it as their common problem, a problem of understanding. Because of the constancy of human nature, "Romeo and Juliet" is capable of reinterpretation. Shakespeare has a friendly smile and a bit of wisdom for today's parents and lovers. Enjoy the story and find the wisdom.
Social Service (Fourth Week in March)
ACQUIRING THE USE OF SPEECH
LESSON VI
There are three goals to be kept clearly in mind in working on this lesson:
1. What is the natural development of speech?when and how does it appear and grow?
2. What positive care and educational activities will recognize, stimulate and guide this development best?
3. What common speech defects are found in children? How may these be prevented? How may they be cured?
These are essentially knowledge aims. The members of the class will therefore expect to study to learn, not just be impressed by, the content of the lesson.
Suggestions for procedure: Assign the reading guide for careful study. This will give some information on all of the aims, especially 1 and 3. Emphasize to the class members that success in learning this lesson will be increased by a careful study of the problems in the pamphlet as indicated by the first statement in the reading guide. An individual member of the class may be assigned to study topic I in the supplementary material, locate babies of various ages and report to the class on the development of speech as found. A special report on what the home can do to correct speech defects would help. A teacher from the schools could report what is actually being done in treating special cases if such a lecture can be arranged. Each of these reports wants to be brief, definite and to the point. The other material is suitable for class study and discussion. Memorization of this material will be materially helped by a definite summary carefully planned by the class instructor.
Reading Guide. Growth pages 23-28.
1. The problems on page 27-28 should be analyzed and answered by each member as a part of the individual study. Questions that the individual can't answer should be taken to the class for solution. Class members should lead the discussion in this way.
Does the author imply that crying is a part of learning to talk? On what basis does a parent's interpretation of baby's cry "have its effects on the child's training?" 3. Can you see how it is that "mama" and "dada" are among the first sounds made by the child? How Growth, pages LESSON DEPARTMENT 63 do these become permanent social words? 4, The development of vocabulary seems to follow which of the following? What the child hears incidentally. The development of the child's activities.: Attempts at formal teaching. 5. Note carefully the sentences which show the relationship between the development of speech and each of the following: Physical exercise or play. Children's questions. General intellectual ability. Sex differences. Inheritance and home environments.. 6. "Delayed speech" as a defect seems to be associated with three specific causes: General mental slowness, sensory defects, lack of motive for talking. How may the effects of this last one be avoided? 7. Defective speech seems to be related to physiological limitations or lack of care on the part of adults while the child is learning to talk. Note carefully what the author says about "corrective work" and "baby talk," 8. Stuttering is essentially emotional. Write down and take to class for discussion the facts given on each of the following points: Accompanying symptoms. Importance in the happiness of childhood. Age at which correction should begin. Dangers of direct disciplinary measures. Supplementary Material: I. Curti gives the following ?Stages in the Development of Speech.? (Child Psychology, pp. 191ff) Random articulation, characteristic of the first six months. 2. The babbling stage, or vocal play of babies, or the playful repetition of sounds. This is especially characteristic of the second six - months. 3. Evoking of articulate elements by the speech of others, the beginnings of imitation. This is usually limited to imitation of the sounds used in the babbling stage. 4. Conditioning of the articulation by objects and situations. This is illustrated by the happy response obtained when the babble "da-da" occurs in the presence of the father. "Practice of the two-syllable form da-da is encouraged by adults, while that of the one syllable form is regularly interfered with." ''Again a chance utterance of the child may be connected with any familiar object, and if its use is encouraged by adults, become the name of the object.'" IT. Children's vocabularies grow about as indicated by the following table: 12 months few words 18 ? ? 24 ? 300 30" 450" 36 " 800 42 ? 1,250 48 1,550 " 54 ? 1,800 60" 2,100 " 66 2,300 " 72 ? 2,600 " General intelligence, social opportunities, and general activity all affect the growth of vocabulary. III. Extent of Speech defects: Total in the United States estimated at 1,250,000. Total of these who stutter, 200,000. Ratio of number of boys to number of girls, 3 to 1. IV. Data on special problems. 64 RELIEF SOCIETY 1. Speechlessness or delayed speech. This may be due to individual differences in maturity of function but is always dangerous if it persists past four or five years of age. Causes. Inability to hear or form auditory images, inability to associate hearing with proper speech movement. Treatment of the first type is described by Peppard as follows (p. 75-6): "When teaching a sound to a child whose speech images are retarded, the teacher should take the child's face between his hands. The child should watch closely the teacher's mouth while the latter produces a simple sound, such as "p.' The teacher should continue making the same sound until the child can produce it. His eyes should then be covered by the teacher's hand, shutting out all visual stimuli that would cause distraction from the auditory impression, and the sound 'ah' should be made close to the child's ear. This is done in order to give sufficient quantity and quality to the sound to make a strong impression. It will be necessary to make the sound several times very distinctly. Then the teacher should face the child. The child's hand should be placed on the teacher's throat, so that he can feel the vibration when the teacher says "ah." (The mouth should be well open.) The child should then produce the sound. In the second type of difficulty the child hears, but the impression releases other reactions than speech. For example the child hears "dada" and looks at or runs to his father?but does not talk. The treatment is described as follows: (Peppard, p. 77.) "In teaching a word like MOTHER, begin with teaching M, then O, then MO. When he says MO correctly several times, teach TH-ER. Put TH-ER together and get THER. Then have him produce the first group MO and then the second group THER. All words should be built up in this manner for children with this particular type of speech defect. "Again, take a simple sentence like MAGAZINE "I see you." It will be necessary to break each word into its elementary sounds. In order to teach this type of child to say the above, the work must be presented in the following manner: I.... Ah ee see.... See you.... "Each word should be taught separately until it is clearly under the child's control. The simple sentence used above is not a problem of three words, or three stimuli, to the child, but one of six elementary sounds. At first the child's vocabulary will consist of words definitely taught, but as activity is aroused throughout the speech areas, the child slowly begins to interpret sounds of a more complex nature.' These quotations are illustrations only. Much more study is required to make the corrections. 2. Some children seem unable to raise the tongue to produce sounds as "l, t, d, n." If the tongue is tied it can be corrected by a surgeon. If the condition is due to sluggishness in the tongue muscles it can be prevented by clear speaking models in the home and social demands for well pronounced words. It can be corrected by exercise. 3. Baby talk. "Baby talk is the result of erroneous interpretation and production of sounds. The instances in which mental and physical defects accompany baby talk are rare. Erroneous auditory and motor (kinaesthetic) images are often early established as a result of the well-meant but foolish prattle of parents." (Peppard: The Correction of Speech Defects, p. 93.) "Care should be taken to supply the child with good speech copy long before he even begins to speak, because internal speech impressions are formed months before motor or external speech begins." (Page 94.) Most children correct this defect themselves. At times it persists into high school. To correct it the sounds not well pronounced should be LESSON DEPARTMENT 65 taught as correct skills in new words not previously mispronounced. Later the child can be taught to apply the new skills to the old words. 4, Lisping. This is characterized by the inability to pronounce such sounds as "s, z, sh" and occasionally others. It is a common element in baby talk. This is a very common defect which gradually corrects itself. It is caused by the tongue rising or protruding in the attempted pronunciation of sounds requiring the lowering of the tip of the tongue behind the lower teeth. It is often begun when the first set of teeth are lost. Bad models of speech often cause it. It usually completely disappears in the intermediate grades. If it does not, correction is necessary. This consists essentially of teaching the child the proper position of the tongue, demonstration of the sounds, careful supervision of practice. 5. Stuttering or stammering. This is a halting defective utterance often accompanied by the repetition of initial sounds. Terman and Almack list five classes of causes or predisposing influences: (Hygiene of the School Child, p. 353-7.) 1. Reflex conditions including adenoids, enlarged tonsils, defective teeth, etc. 2. General weakness due to malnutrition, sickness or overwork. 3. Psychical causes including shock, morbid fear, etc. 4. Hereditary tendencies. 5. Interference with normal lefthandedness. This seems to be a very significant cause. Peppard says: "The subjective or subconscious state is most profound in stammerers. It is difficult to control the subconscious mind. The subconscious mind is not active in mental focusing on facts but it is said that its memory of the emotions is almost perfect. The conscious mind works under control of the will, Stammering is a defect in the mind and not in the vocal chords. It is a mental fault often eventuating in physical disability. It is this physical manifestation that gives rise to the mistaken belief that nervousness is the underlying cause of stammering. Parents and teachers are prone to believe that nervousness causes stammering because stammerers usually show signs of nervousness. The term "nervousness" is too generally used. It would be more accurate to say that the emotional instability underlying stammering causes the nervousness as well as the stammering. This emotional instability usually responds to the reeducative methods used in the correction of stammering. When the emotional instability is eliminated, the stammering and nervous manifestations disappear. The nervousness that accompanies stammering cannot be corrected by administering nerve tonics. It is due to a definite mental condition and cannot be eliminated until this mental condition is corrected by reeducation of some sort. Treatment for nervousness rarely removes stammering, but corrective treatment for the elimination of stammering usually causes. A rapid improvement in the patient's physical and nervous condition." (Peppard: The Correction of Speech Defects, p. 142.) One characteristic to be noted especially is that when the defect begins it soon causes a language fear which disposes the individual to avoid the use of speech. The effect is therefore one of gradual general speech deterioration. That it is not a physical condition is shown by the fact that patients can sing very well. Peppard lists eleven possible causes (page 146): 1. Fright. 2. Shock. 3. Psycho-neurosis, produced by shock or injury. 4, Nervous debility. 5. Careless habits of speech in childhood, due to diffused thinking or to a child's having been allowed to form the habit of repeating words. 6. Endeavoring to produce sounds with the speech organs in incorrect position for production of such sounds; for instance, opening the  mouth in an effort to produce "m." We often find the stammerer with his speech organs in position for the second sound before the first sound has been produced. 7. Drawing in the breath when attempting to articulate. Forced inhalation before speaking. The person fills up with air, as it were, in order to have sufficient air to finish. This causes a rigidity of the articulatory muscles. Most stammerers can sing, which proves that it is not the insufficient amount of air that is causing the difficulty. It takes very little breath to produce speech. This can be proved by saying a short sentence as, "My name is John Brown," after a forced exhalation. 8. Imitation of stammering speech, either direct, which is mocking, or indirect. Children should be warned of the danger of this practice. 9. Use of words whose pronunciation and meaning are beyond the mental development of the child. This causes a stumbling and a lack of assurance which eventuates in a fear of pronunciation. 10. Forcing a left-handed child to write with his right hand. 11. Speech conflict?thinking in one language and endeavoring to speak in another. 12. Overinnervation. The prevention of these causes prevents stammering. Especial care to prevent any imitation or mimicking of this defect should be taken. Embarrassment always aggravates the difficulty. Worry and undue excitement with hurried talking should be avoided in children. Self confidence should be developed in children. Watch to see that formal work of the first grade doesn't start a tendency to stammer. The correction is difficult but entirely possible. Each case is individual and different. It really means a re-education of the speech centers. It may also be necessary to overcome a tendency to introversion, to despondency and fear. The first step is always to work to get the patient to know that he can talk. Sometimes singing will do this. Sometimes an entirely new word correctly mastered will be the means. Suggest power and ability always. Sympathy is not wanted. Peppard gives ten brief rules that will help. (Pages 157-8.) 1. Discover the cause, if possible. 2. Restore confidence. 3. Create a new and stronger voice. 4, Destroy the "compulsive idea." 5. Have pupil syllabicate words, stressing every syllable. This eradicates any slovenly habits of speech. 6. Have pupil break sentences into small groups of words and pause and relax after each group. This will slow down the speed which is common to most stammerers. The voice should be dropped after each phrase as one does at a period. Teaching rising inflection at all commas develops unnatural voice production. 7, When a stammerer has difficulty, make him stop talking and gain self-control. Tell him to think first what he wishes to say, place the first sound correctly, break the words into syllables, and proceed. Do not let him skip any sound in a word. Do not let him make several attempts at saying a word. Stop him instantly and have him think the correct production. "When images corresponding to any sensory experiences are recalled there is the same kind of action as when the senses are externally stimulated, although this action is less intense." Halleck. (The Education of the Central Nervous System.) 8. Cultivate direct thinking. That LESSON DEPARTMENT 67 is, train the student to concentrate on what he is saying. 9, Develop a quick connection between musculature and brain. 10. Deal constantly with the personal equation. Speech is an educational problem. Its normal development can be assured by thought and care on the part of parents and teachers. Its correction can be accomplished by teachers, and parents who will study the problem and work patiently. Occasionally some medical or surgical aid may be needed. People do not need to permit themselves to be victimized by quacks who offer quick cures or exclusive methods. References: 1. Curti: Child psychology, pp. 191 ff. 2. Peppard: The Correction of Speech Defects, pp. 75-6. 3. Peppard: The Correction of Speech Defects, p. 77. 4. Peppard: The Correction of Speech Defects, p. 93. 5. Peppard: The Correction of Speech Defects, p. 94. 6. Peppard: The Correction of Speech Defects, p. 142. 7. Peppard: The Correction of Speech Defects, p. 146.: 8. Peppard: The Correction of Speech Defects, pp. 157-8.