[Vol52 | April 1965 | Page 306 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
FIELD Relief Society Activities All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents or mission Relief Society presidents or supervisors, and should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. See regulations governing the submittal of Notes From the Field in the November 1964 issue of the Magazine, page 847. North British Mission, St. Helens Branch Singing Mothers Present Music at Liverpool District Conference May 11, 1964 Winnifred Stevens, President, Liverpool District Relief Society, is seated third from the right in the front row; chorister Gladys M. Fullwood stands at the left (wearing a necklace); Ruth B. Green, President, North British Mission Relief Society, is seated fourth from the left on the second row; First Counselor Elizabeth McCormack, fourth from the left on the front row; Second Counselor Kathleen Taylor, second from the left, front row; Josie B. Bay, of the General Board of Relief Society, is seated second from the right in the second row. Jear W. Jaussi, Supervisor, North British Mission Relief Society, reports that Sister Bay met with the Liverpool District Relief Society in the Wigan chapel on May 11, 1964, at which time the Singing Mothers of St. Helens Branch presented the music. 306 NOTES FROM THE FIELD Olympus Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Conducts Outstanding Nursery Program Standing at the back: Jane F. Buckmiller, cub scout den mother; Verna Lue C. Gledhill, Counselor, Olympus Stake Relief Society. I safe, and delightful. There were sufficient to present Some of the toys to the stake Relief Society also. 


 West German Mission, Heidelberg and Frankfurt Servicemen's Relief Societies Hold Bazaars Edith M. McIntire, Supervisor, West German Mission Relief Society, reports: "The eleven Relief Societies of the Servicemen's District of the West German Mission should be commended for the outstanding Relief Society work they do. The program continues to move forward successfully in spite of small enroliment, great distances, and frequent rotation of members. The love and devotion with which these American sisters respond to their callings add to the spirit of Relief Society work among our German sisters." Upper picture: Heidelberg Branch, left to right: Julia Christensen, Education Counselor; Verna Evans, President; Barbara Scherz, Work Counselor. Sister Evans reports that the sisters "doing double duty as: army wives and Relief Society workers, did a tremendous job to make the November 1964 'Bountiful Harvest' bazaar a huge success. The untiring hours and efforts of sixteen sisters netted the organization $250." Lower picture: Frankfurt Branch, left to right: Twylla Flanders and Nikki Viio (a Finnish-born sister) in charge of the Finnish booth at the bazaar with the theme "Far Away Places," in October 1964. Thelda G. Haines, President, Frankfurt. Branch, reports: "The chapel we share with the German saints has three levels. The main floor houses the chapel, where the Primary children presented a program that carried out our theme. Some classes presented a German song and skit, some sang an American song, and one class modeled clothing from many countries. After the program, a Mexican chili dinner was served by serape-clad girls in the basement. Upstairs in the cultural hall one could visit faraway places. Each booth represented a country and was decorated in the colors of the national flag. Finland had children's clothing and toys; Turkey had baked goods; France had dress patterns; Holland was for aprons; Switzerland sold candy; America sold quilts; Belgium had linens; and Germany was represented with Christmas items. Our bean bag toss was from Ireland, and Denmark had a dart game. Our fish pond was American, too." Janet Trowbridge, Work Counselor, was chairman of the bazaar, and Virginia Fenton, work meeting leader, was in charge of the work. Materials to make the items came from Germany and the United States. Kansas City Stake (Kansas) Singing Mothers Present Music for Officers Meeting, Relief Society Annual General Conference September 30, 1964 Chorister Joyce Sanders stands at the left (in black dress); Marjorie M. Reeve, President, second from the left in the front row. Josephine H. McCall, organist, was absent. Sister Reeve reports: "The Kansas City Stake Singing Mothers presented the singing for the opening session of Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1964. Many projects were sponsored by each ward and branch, making it possible for these sisters to leave their families and experience a week of beautiful sisterhood. Over one hundred went to the temple. Tours were planned ahead of time for all to participate. The stake gave an opening social on the train, with ten wards and branches each putting on a skit. Refreshments of candy, cookies, and punch were served to 187. Many laughed when we boarded the train with our boxes of goodies. Ice for the punch was put on for us in Wyoming. This picture was taken at a practice in August, when fifty-five of 189 were on vacations." 


 Craig Stake (Colorado) Style Show and Displays at Work Leadership Meeting December 1964 Left to right: Artel Podbevset, Secretary-Treasurer; Rachel Palmer, President. At the right: Delores Hitchens, Second Counselor; children seated in front: Rebecca Lee Adams and Jeff Dunn; model: Donna Wardell. Sister Palmer reports that the work meeting displays at leadership meeting in December were varied and beautiful. The applique and patchwork quilts were especially outstanding. A crocheted tablecloth and a colorful afghan were much admired, and the artificial flower arrangements, handmade figurines and wall plaques, aprons, and paintings added to the variety and interest of the exhibits. Many suggestions for Christmas gifts delighted the Relief Society sisters and everyone appreciated the artistic arrangement of the displays. East Sharon Stake (Utah), Edgemont First Ward Presidencies Honored at Social January 5, 1965 Front row, seated, left to right: Eva G. Gillespie; Margaret G. Pulsipher; Matilda E. Booth; Racheal H. Meecham; Jo Ella Baum Smith; Bernice L. Faulkner; Pearl P. Stubbs. Back row, standing, left to right: Olive J. Gillespie; Montess E. Hawkins; Elizabeth G. Ferguson; Connie A. Tucker; Ida P. Stubbs; Inez A. Messick; Thelma H. Sampson, present President. Sarah M. Grow, President, East Sharon Stake Relief Society, reports: "At a Relief Society social held in the newly dedicated Edgemont First and Fourth Ward chapel, all of the presidencies since the original organization of the Edgemont First Ward on April 11, 1926, were represented and duly honored. During the program the accomplishments and highlights of each presidency were related, such as fund-raising projects, contributions to the building of chapels, bazaars, and assistance to those in need." Columbus Stake (Ohio), Bellefontaine Branch Visiting Teachers Achieve One Hundred Per Cent Visiting Teaching for One and One Half Years December 5, 1964 Left to right: M. Jean Burton, Second Counselor; Virginia Y. Dowdy; Augusta M. Cramer; Ethel I. Hutchinson; Glendora M. Elliott, President; Louise L. Young; Kathryn E. McIntyre, Secretary-Treasurer. Agnes C. Fisher and Jeanne Nederbrock were not present when this picture was taken. Farel Rush, President, Columbus Stake Relief Society, reports: "At our December 5, 1964 leadership meeting, these sisters were honored for the outstanding achievement of one hundred per cent visiting teaching for the past year and a half. This dependent branch has consistently been an example to all our other twelve Relief Societies. Bellefontaine Branch is scattered over a large radius, having members in many small surrounding towns. We are truly grateful to these faithful visiting teachers for their 'person to person way of teaching,' which is Christ's way of teaching, so beautifully presented at our last Annual General Conference by Sister Anna B. Hart. Bellefontaine was organized into an independent branch the following day, December 6, 1964. Sister Olive A. Haas, now released, was instrumental for the visiting teaching program in Bellefontaine being carried out in the proper manner. In the first months she sometimes covered the whole area as companion to two or three other sisters. Sister Louise L. Young, formerly of Kauai, Hawaii, is the wife of the branch president, and through her lovely leadership, has often inspired these sisters." 310 Potomac Stake (Virginia), Capitol Hill Ward Bazaar November 13, 1964 Eula Mae Gardineer, stands in the "Southwest Curio Shop," with Virginia Gardineer, Laura Gardineer, and Nancy Kerr. Avalon C. Bigelow, President, Potomac Stake Relief Society, reports: "All geographic areas, from the rock-bound New England coast to verdant Hawaii, provided merchandise and food for 'Regional United States of America' at the bazaar and dinner held by the Capitol Hill Ward of Potomac Stake. All ages of Relief Society participated—from twenty-year-old Diane Cherry to eighty-nine-year-old Kate Isbell, who baked bread for the event. "The East Coast had a country store, typical of those still in existence in the small rural villages which dot the eastern seaboard. Handicraft in the Southwest Curio Shop was displayed against a background of Indian articles, and this motif was repeated in such articles as ponchos and painted dish towels. Articles from the Far West were displayed within the weatherbeaten walls of a trading post. Representing Hawaii, merchandise was sold from a fish net draped table, with a background of lovely green. A large variety of rag dolls was displayed by the Rocky Mountaineers in their shotgun protected general store. Lipstick blotters and doll rockers made by the Southerners were sold from a booth labeled 'Christmas Is Coming.' The Midwest had a grab bag of articles suitable for children, in addition to seed pictures and other items sold from among the tall corn. Merchandise ranged from Boston baked beans to original oil paintings, and was enticing to the eyes and the palates of all ages. "The presidency feels that the use of multiple chairmen created greater participation and afforded many sisters an opportunity to exhibit hidden talents. By working together for the common goal of providing a delicious dinner and a colorful bazaar, the whole group has increased in appreciation and love, one for another, as individuals."