[Vol52 | April 1965 | Page 292 | Home | "Quickie" Menu for the Homebound Oa | J. Cannon]
"Quickie" Menu for the Homebound Oa. J. Cannon Member, General Board of Relief Society I love the term "Compassionate Service."" It means I can be of service to one who is in need. When someone is unable to get out of bed, I know she will enjoy my favorite "quickie" menu that is so simple to fix. HAM CASSEROLE 2 c. Diced ham 34, c. Water and condensed milk 4 oz. Cooked noodles combined 1 can mushroom soup 1 tsp. Onion 34 c. Nippy cheese Top with buttered crumbs. Bake for 30 minutes at 400°. Serves 6-8. ORANGE SHERBET SALAD 2 pkgs. Orange jello 1 11 oz. Can mandarin oranges 2 c. Boiling water (drained) 1 pt. Orange sherbet Pour jello into boiling water, then immediately stir sherbet in until melted. Pour into ring mold and chill until syrupy, then drop mandarin oranges into mold. TOPPING 11 oz. Can mandarin oranges 1 c. Commercial sour cream 11 oz. Can pineapple chunks 1 c. Miniature marshmallows 1 c. Flaked coconut Put into a bow! That will fit down in ring of ring mold and chill several hours. When the cassergle and the salad are ready for taking to your homebound friend, then you might tuck in a loaf of white bread for good measure. WHITE BREAD 1 qt. Lukewarm water 5 tbsp. Sugar 2 yeast cakes Let stand until yeast has dissolved, then add: 1% c. Soy oil (or other oil) 3 well-beaten eggs 1 rounding tbsp. Salt 14-16 c. Flour Add 4 c. Flour and beat thoroughly. Add remaining flour gradually, mixing to a dough that is stiff enough so it won't stick to hands. Knead lightly on floured surface and return to greased bowl. Let rise until double in bulk. Promptly punch down or knead about 2 minutes, or until dough is reduced to original bulk. Let rise until dough retains dent when pressed lightly. Mold into loaves. Handle dough lightly and quickly—overkneading or vigorous handling at this stage injures texture and toughens bread. Let rise until a slight touch leaves a dent. Bake in 350° oven for an hour.