[Vol52 | April 1965 | Page 313 | Lesson | Work Meeting — ". . . The Worth of Souls Is Great . . ." Alberta | H. Christensen]
WORK MEETING — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Lesson 6 — ".. Alberta H. Christensen. The Worth of Souls Is Great...." (A Course to Be Studied at Work Meeting, January Through September 1965) For Second Meeting, June 1965 Objective: To emphasize the divine gift of individuality and the role of the mother in assisting the children to develop their individual abilities. INTRODUCTION The importance of the individual (spirit plus body) is beyond human estimate. Nothing in the world is more significant. The Heavenly Father implied as much when he said that his work and his glory were to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man. Specific latter-day scripture also impresses us with the worth of each individual. Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God (D&C 18:10). All who believe in the divine origin and destiny of man know that this is true. They know (although they often do not give evidence that they know), that position, money, clothes, cars, beautiful homes, all pale into insignificance when compared with the value of the human soul. Parents who sense the importance of each individual realize they have the responsibility to be as wise in their guidance of children placed in their care for a few, brief years, as is possible. This lesson discusses this responsibility and suggests some guidance practices. EACH INDIVIDUAL IS PRECIOUS In spite of certain characteristics which all human beings have in common, every person is different from every other person. No two individuals are identical, few are really very closely alike. This is inevitable and as it should be. It makes life interesting, enjoyable, and challenging. Although every mother knows that each of her children is distinct in personality, she may not honor the divine right and free agency of the individual and, therefore, may tend to exercise unrighteous jurisdiction over her 


 children. Often, parents try to make their children into replicas of themselves, and mothers, especially, may seek fulfillment of their own unfulfilled desires and ambitions by insisting that the daughters specialize in some particular field of accomplishment. Such practice is not considering the child as a distinct personality, entitled to that guidance which will help him discover his own abilities and ultimately to reach his own potential. DISCOVERING THE INHERENT ABILITY 1. How may the mother assist her child to discover his own inherent abilities? 2. Is it an indication of special aptitude for a child to show at an early age, a particular interest in the following: music, art, insects, mechanical devices, creative writing? 3. How may the mother avoid pressuring her child into an accomplishment of her own choosing? 4. How practical is it for a mother whose children are grown, to "activate" her own undeveloped talents? The above questions are pertinent to the priceless gift of individuality. Discuss, giving illustrations. IN THE FIELD OF GUIDANCE Specialists in the field of child guidance remind us that each child in the home must feel that he is being treated fairly, must feel that his parents really love him and want to understand his particular problems. When a teenage daughter says, ''Mother, you simply don't understand," what will the wise mother say? What will she do? Is it fair to compare one child disparagingly with another in the following manner? 314 Mother: "Your older sister Ruth always practiced her piano lesson, why don't you? You're simply lazy." Will the foregoing comparison endear her to her sister Ruth? Mother: "Your brother Richard always got an A in algebra. Why can't you get better than a C?" In addition to being an unwise practice, might this comparison be unjust, due to a difference in ability? Mother: "Your little friend keeps her room clean and tidy. You are dreadfully untidy and careless." Could it be that the "little friend's' mother motivates her child more wisely? What type of comparison is justifiable? (Suggestion: Individual progress in line with one's own ability.) "REPROVING BETIMES" Often the violation of gospel virtues is the result of not having been taught the correct principles. It is also true that children, for one reason or another, some- _ times ignore or violate principles which they have been taught, and the mother is faced with the problem of how to correct her child. How shall she help him to understand that his behavior does himself harm and may be hurtful to others, that it is rude or selfish? How may she do this and still have him know that she loves him and that a particular behavior only needs to be changed; that she is still his "friend"? Consider the following comment: Girl: "I don't think my mother loves me much. If she did she wouldn't get so angry with me." Does this statement indicate 1. Poor communication between mother and daughter? 2. Mother's lack of _ self-control when giving reproof? In the following scripture the Lord has given counsel on the matter of correction which should be helpful to the Latter-day Saint mother: Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death (D&C 121:43-44). "Reproving betimes with sharpness" suggests an important element in the matter of correction. What may, often, be the motive of many mothers for reproof? As you consider the following situations, analyze how you feel about each. Do they make you feel angry, irritated, disgusted, disappointed, or feel helpless? 1. An older boy teasing his younger brother, even hitting him, so that the younger one comes to you crying. 2. Boy, fourteen, calling his sister "dumb and stupid" because she does not open the door quickly. 3. Two daughters fighting over whose turn it is to clean their room or over a mutually owned article. 4. A boy being '"'sassy"' and calling, "I won't do it, no matter what you say." 5. The small child whimpering over every little hurt. 6. The child who blames everyone else for his own little problems. 7. The boy who eats the refrigerated dessert which you have prepared for dinner. How would you handle each? Discuss. LESSON DEPARTMENT JUSTICE AND MERCY A mother is continually faced with the problem of mercy and justice. How may she be just in punishment and also merciful? To achieve a proper balance between these two great gospel principles requires wisdom upon the part of the mother and often prompts her earnest prayer for divine guidance. It may be helpful to the mother to realize that sometimes the punishment is already equal to the violation. Listen to these meaningful, although somewhat facetious words of this very, very young child: I wish she would not, scolding, say, "I told you so, just watch where you are going first—"' That only makes the hurting WORSE And already on my bump There is a great big swelling lump! And consider this not uncommon incident: Kathy, age eight, investigating the contents of the china cupboard (against a well-known admonition of the mother), dropped and broke an heirloom piece of porcelain. Family members present, including the father, waited apprehensively, knowing how much the mother valued this particular piece. Kathy also waited, breathlessly, tears filling her eyes. The mother waited a moment also. Then she said, kindly, "Kathy, I know you didn't mean to do that. Come, Ill help you clean it up. Try to remember, next time, what mother has said about the dishes in that cupboard." Kathy had violated a_ wellknown family rule. Justice called for some reproof. Did her own remorse, and the recognition of the violation before all family members, justify the kind and 


 merciful response of this mother? What would you have done? ACCORDING TO THE LORD'S WAY No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile (D&C 121:41-42). Although this modern scripture has definite reference to bearers of the Priesthood, surely it has application for all who would influence or would reprove others according to the Lord's way. A Latter-day Saint mother may do well to consider this list of attributes as she attempts to influence her children for good. And as she reproves for error, surely gentleness, kindness, patience, and love unfeigned, rather than threat or coercion are qualities which will bring both mother and child to a happy relationship and will lead both to personal growth. "I.. COMMANDMENT IS A LAMP" For the commandment is a lamp; and the law is light; and reproofs of instruction are the way of life (Proverbs 6:23). If parents were perfect, the problem of parental guidance and of reproving error might be less complex; but parents are not perfect. In fact, the chief difference between being the parent and being the child is that the parent has had a few more years of experience. This experience is supposed to have given the parent wisdom, good judgment, and some of the disciplines of life. 316 And this is often the case. Yet, it is a sobering and humbling thought for parents to know that they, too, have much to learn and are also in need of reproof. Realistic adults are aware of the fact that they are constantly being chastened by their own mistakes. Should this awareness make parents more understanding of their children? What is the difference in being tolerant and _understanding, and in being permissive? Indulgent? (Read the address by President E. Nathan Tanner, The Relief Society Magazine, December 1964, pages 884-894.) In order to give wise guidance to their children, parents, themselves, often need to change both attitudes and habits. They can change their attitudes and their ways, even though they are no longer young. Recall the dramatic conversion of Paul on the road to Damascus, his change of attitude, his change of performance. Were it not possible to change, why have adult (now called "continuing') education? Why have the law of repentance? How could there be eternal progression? Actually, we are constantly in the process of change, it is hoped, for the better. What is your reaction to a mother telling her daughter, to whom she has just given corrective advice, that she, too, is trying to overcome a_ particular habit? What will this do to their mother-daughter relationship? Since the important responsibility of teaching the principles of righteous living has been given to parents, a child is entitled to be taught these principles. If and when he violates any of them, he is entitled to that type of correction which will not destroy his self-respect or make him feel that he is a rejected person. Might not each child be taught that a commandment given by our Heavenly Father and those given by parents who love him, are as a lamp, to guide him in ways of behavior that will bring him happiness and satisfaction; that correction is merely to keep him in the path where the light of that lamp may continue to guide his steps? FOR DISCUSSION: Make full use of the questions as they appear in the lesson. FOR HOME DOING: In the light of this lesson discussion, change your attitude and method of reproof in several situations. Write down the results, for your own personal progress in bettering family relationships. Begin now to correct some character trait in yourself which you feel needs correction.

The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.55 Zone 6.90 Zone 3.60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4 65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5.80 I On PESERET [REws PRESS 1. This is an ideal program for social organizations, student groups, business groups, family organizations, religious groups, special interest groups, etc! 2. You organize your group... Murdock experts will do your planning! 3. You pick the country or place your group wants to see... Murdock Travel will show you how easy and inexpensive it is to get there! 4. You can take your own group or Murdock Travel wil! Provide a guide for you! 5. You can assure your group of travel on the highest quality carriers (bus, rail, or air) and accommodations in the finest hotels! Send for full particulars now: Murdock Travel, Inc., 14 South Main Street Salt Lake City — Phone: 328-3161 Coeoeeeaeeseeeeeeeeeaeeeseeeseeeeoeeoeseevneeeeeveeeeoeeeeaeee @eeeeaeeoevaeneoee08e8e8@ Salt Lake City's Newest Handicraft Shop UTAR CRAFT & NOVELTY We now have a much larger shop to serve you better! ¥% Complete line of materials for plastic grapes, feather flowers, ribbon flowers, satin fruit & many others. Write for new catalog. 50c Free Instructions also available UTAH CRAFT & NOVELTY CO. New Address 3220 So. State, Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 319

e eae Street or RFD 2 cee Telephone City 200.. State Zip Code One sure way is with a Beneficial Family Benefactor Plan One low-cost policy not only provides life insurance for Mom and Dad and every child in your family now, but allows for future additions at no increase in premiums. It's the ideal plan for the young family. Valuable conversion features make it easy for your children to acquire more life insurance when they get older. Is this "family package" the plan for you? For more information, mail coupon below, or call your local Beneficial Life agent. BENEFICIAL LIFE Srsctaner Company Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah