[Vol52 | April 1965 | Page 272 | General Feature | Notes to the Field: Use of Selections From the Literature Text Stake Social Science Leadership Department in Summer Not to Be Held Color Transparencies for Use in The Relief | Society Magazine]
[Notes to the Field: Use of Selections From the Literature Text Stake Social Science Leadership Department in Summer Not to Be Held Color Transparencies for Use in The Relief Society Magazine]
[ILLUSTRATION: Woman at desk writing]

Notes to the Field

[ILLUSTRATION: Woman at desk writing]

Use of Selections From the Literature Text

In response to inquiries which have come to the General Board regarding the duplicating of selections for class use from the Relief Society literature text Out of the Best Books, we give the following information: In the textbook under "Acknowledgments," pages xiii to xiv, a listing of the selections under copyright restrictions are given. It is not permissible for a class leader to duplicate any of the selections listed therein. Selections other than those listed, where no copyright restrictions have been imposed by the authors, may be duplicated by the class leader for use in the class.

Stake Social Science Leadership Department in Summer Not to Be Held

It is not expected that a stake leadership social science department be held for the four summer month lessons of the course, "Teaching the Gospel in the Home." This is in conformity with the Handbook instructions that no leadership meetings be held during the four-month summer period (Handbook, page 70).

Color Transparencies for Use in The Relief Society Magazine

Where Relief Societies or Magazine readers wish to submit pictures for use in the 4-color section of the Relief Society Magazine, the transparencies must be of excellent quality, clear and distinct in detail, and of deep, rich color. Sizes larger than 35 mm. kodachrome transparencies are preferred. Colored photograph prints or their negatives are not satisfactory for reproduction. In photographing subjects focus on the object itself at close range.

272
