Volume 52 Number 4 April 1965 I Special Short Story Issue Citen, Fewer "la Col sewane The Cover: I/ - Photograph by Adelie Hurley, Free Lance Photographers Guild ' Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret New Press Frontispiece: Art Layout: © Hlustrations: Linnie F. Robinson Photograph by Josef Muench Dick Scopes I Mary Scopes Som ON car and Ser I do not know how many brethren in the Church read The Relief Society Magazine. I even take Sister Vernon's copy to work with me and 'read it during lunch breaks. No words of mine can express how I feel about the Magazine. It keeps us humble and brings home to us just how blessed we are. Having held the office of branch president four times, I know only too well what it means to have a good Relief Society in a branch. 1! Am grateful for all the help and assistance the sisters have given me as branch president. It gave me great joy to read in the January 1965 issue of Sister Francelle Larsen conducting the Singing Mothers in San Joaquin Stake, California. Brother and Sister Larsen did a wonderful work over here in the Liverpool District, and later in the Manchester Stake. We love these good Latter-day Saints. They are a shining example of "By their fruits ye shall know them." J. Vernon, First Counselor Preston District North British Mission I wish to congratulate Venda Brown Castleberry on her tender story ''Heart Room" (first prize story, January 1965). It is warm and appealing. I hope to see more of her writing in the future. Alice Gubler Sabin Deer Park, Washington I want to express my sincere appreciation for the prize-winning poems and the story which appeared in the January issue. All of the poems are lovely. Author of the first-prize poem, Sister Hansen, is the mother of one of our ward members, Q. Marion Hansen. The story by Sister Castleberry is excellent and carries a fine lesson for us all. I must express thanks for the interesting serial ''Turn of the Wheel,"' by Mabel Harmer. As a children's librarian and teacher, I often find her books on our shelves and on lists of recommended books. It is a thrill to think that I know Sister Harmer. Norma A. Wrathall Sunnyvale, California 242 I had yesterday a great fun. It was the birthday of my grandmother. A week ago in Hamburg was born a new great-grandson, so I have translated and told her the poem ''First Grand Addition,'' by Leora Larsen, November 1964 Magazine. Grandmother and the guests had a big laughter. When I heard the news of the birth of the little grandson, I had sent a letter with the poem in it to the baby's father, and he answered so lovely and so funny, that we had to laugh, too., Benita Hollman - Lubeck, Germany I am a convert to the Church and have been a member for two years now. I enjoy my work in Relief Society and look forward to the Magazine each month. Mrs. Walter Chalcroft Minot, North Dakota I just received the first issue of our Magazine for this year, and what a beautiful Magazine it is! I love the warmth and friendship it brings to me, and the chance to visit with my sisters around the world. The fresh ideas it has on homemaking and caring for my family are much appreciated, but I value most the spiritual growth the Magazine gives me. I enjoy the directions for handwork and making gifts, such as ''A Welcome Gift,'' by Vilate McAllister in the November issue, and "Colorful Felt Pictures,'' by June Krambule. Barbara Lynch Fayetteville, N. C. During the week I have read the new literature textbook. It is wonderful. I was almost unable to put it down, and when I really had to leave it for something more important at that particular time, I found myself thinking of it continually and yearning to return to reading it. I am really looking forward to all the literature lessons. Valeria Howard President, Leeton Branch Australian Mission