[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | July | Issue: 1 | Title: SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	JULY 1, and 15, 1893. | Author: Unknown]

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	JULY 1, and 15, 1893.


[Column 1]
THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	THERE never was a time when there was
greater need of communication through the
press between women connected with or-
ganizations, or even individual women than
the present. The multitude of subjects
that agitate the human mind, and the
public welfare, that call for discussion and
an expression of views and opinions, and
the advanced progression of woman her-
self, as a part and parcel of the great body
politic, as well as the status she holds
educationally and socially, morally and
religiously in this age of the world, all
these are good and sufficient reasons, and in
fact demand that women composing any
great organization, or dwelling in any
locality where their influence is a help and
a power, should certainly have a woman’s
paper or journal of their own; and that
such a paper should be well sustained it is
needless to add. That women are in
many respects blind to their own best and
highest interest and advancement in this re-
gard is also apparent, or they would be
more alive and helpful in increasing the
circulation of papers published in their own
locality that advocate their own particular
views, and the advancement of theories and
practices, that will elevate and uplift hu-
manity to the broadest platform of human
rights for both men and women.
	That the WOMAN'S EXPONENT has been
doing this kind and character of work
from the very first number ever issued, no
woman need be afraid to state, and that it
has been a help, a comfort and a blessing
in thousands of homes and in the mission-
ary fields of labor abroad, as well as in re-
moving prejudice to many hundreds who
have accidently come in contact with it in
their travels, or have had it given them by
friends.	
	It seems remarkably strange that the
very women whose influence should be
used to uphold and maintain the paper,
should realize its importance so little as to
think because times are hard and there is
a depression in the money market and the
value of silver is low, that they cannot
afford to take a paper at a dollar a year,
which would not average the amount of
one third of a cent a day the year round;
when one puts it in this light how ridiculous
it seems, and when it is remembered that
two women or four may make up the money
between them and have the privilege of
reading what other women are doing all
over the great busy world would be more
amusing still, were it not that the hard

[Column 2]
practical fact still remains, that many wo-
men give a dollar to go to one theatre, or
to a circus or negro minstrel show, or for
some trifle when it would help a cause
along, that will benefit the whole human
race by spreading light and intelligence
abroad in the earth.
	The women of this people should be zeal-
ous to sustain the paper, that has been es-
tablished and circulated specially for the
advocacy of the principles which they be-
lieve, and for which they stand as repre-
sentatives and the faith of which they are
the living exponents and defenders.
	To make flimsy excuses such as are of-
ten sent in letters to this office is childish,
and if those who make them would only
stop and consider, that the one dollar a
year paid by one subscriber, is only a very
small part indeed of the price of one
month’s payment for printing alone, with-
out the consideration of postage or office
rent or any incidentals, perhaps it might
change the aspect of things very much.
	Newspapers and books are not published
without money, and when money is ex-
pended for good reading matter, for every
dollar paid there is value received with
interest.
	It is unnecessary to repeat what has been
so often published concerning the EXPONENT
of the good work it has done historically,
of the record it has made of the organiza-
tions of women, the biographies and a thou-
sand and one other things; surely the
sisters must feel that it is a necessity for
them and would be a calamity to be with-
out it, and if so then lend a helping hand
just now when it is so much wanted. Agi-
tate the subject get your friends and neigh-
bors to subscribe, and urge those who have
been dilatory in paying back subscriptions
to come forward and pay up all
delinquencies. 
	During the Columbian Exposition
thousands of copies should be given away,
and as zealous workers in a good cause, our
sisters ought to be able to do at least this
philanthropic work. Women are giving
away pamphlets and circulars daily
to advertise their views and their particular
organizations in Chicago at the present
time, and we often hear people say if there
was something for a few cents we could
afford to give to strangers and tourists,
that would give them some idea of our
work we would only be too glad to do it;
now the woman’s paper is just the right
thing for it is still very generally believed
that women in this Church are ignorant and
in subjection, one copy of the EXPONENT
(and it is sold for five cents a copy)
is tangible proof to the contrary. To those
who are anxious to do something in a
small way to scatter good seed and spread
the truth concerning the women of this part
of the world, why no surer method could be
advocated than to circulate the woman’s
paper. It speaks for itself and enters
where no Mormon Elder would be permit-
ted.
	We have frequently remarked in public
and in private, what would we have been
without the Relief Society? And with the
same propriety we can say what would the
Relief Society be without the EXPONENT?
The Deseret News tells the people why
they should subscribe etc. giving good and
substantial reasons, we might with good
grace tell the sisters why they should sub-
scribe for and maintain the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT. 
But let us hope it will not be necessary

[Column 3]
to urge any further the necessity and im-
portance of subscribing; agents everywhere
should be active and energetic not only
in getting new names but in collecting
that which is due, and if this were effec-
tuallv done there would be little or no de-
lay in issuing the paper.
	Missionaries in Scandinavia in Holland
and in other foreign parts acknowledge how
helpful the EXPONENT is in their work
among the nations.
	Many times while in Chicago women
whom we had never seen before, said O,
yes I know the WOMAN'S EXPONENT,and it
has enlightened me greatly on your ques-
tion especially concerning the women of
your faith.  Let us hope that during this
year though the outlook generally is not
so bright as it has been, that women will as
is usually the case in emergencies and un-
der trying circumstances, exert themselves
more earnestly and industriously in every
good cause, and by all means in their
power help to sustain their own paper, and
make it a helpful and delightful source of
information and of moral and spiritual
strength in the households of the saints,
and a blessing and a credit to those outside
who are desirous of learning the truth con-
cerning our belief and our institutions.


