[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | July | Issue: 1 | Title: XXXII. | Author: WOMANS EXPONENT.﻿]

XXXII.

	LADY ANNA rather enjoyed the quiet
restfulness of the summer day at the old
Castle and recalled the sweetness of her
childhood, forgetting the unpleasantness of
her father remembering how much he had
left her to have her own way, though he
had refused to associate with his neighbors
or to allow her to accept their invitations;
thinking it over now, she was glad of it for
they would not intrude upon her in her
solitude there, when she so much wished to
be left to herself; she was too proud to tell 
her troubles, she would scarcely acknowl-
edge them to herself; once or twice during
that day she caught herself soliloquizing,


[Column 1]
aloud,” I’m not so sorry I’m alone in the
world I could not have endured the thought
of my mother knowing me neglected only
such a short time married, and my father
would have been violent had he lived to
see me thus, he would have made Maitland
suffer or treat me differently, there would
have been many a stormy scene doubtless,
it is far better to suffer alone,”—while thus
reflecting Lady Anna like most young
women was possessed with the one idea, her
own trials, and unaware that her father had
been quite as cruel if not more so indeed;
she was so absorbed in herself, everything
else was as nothing. Baby Edward was
like a young prince among the servants at
the Castle, the old lodgekeeper and his
good dame made much of the nurse and
fondled the child in adoration almost, and
before the day was over nurse Werner
heard more of the family history in many
things than Lady Anna herself for trusted
people such as these two old folks, see and
hear much that is kept from younger mem-
bers of the household. Had Lady Anna
known of the gossip she would have kept
nurse and baby at her side; the coachman
too was prying around here and there to
pass the time away, and years afterwards
these two talked over the wonderful tale
heard that one day at Hilliard castle.
Waiting that evening when all was ready
for the drive home, the Walton coachman
could scarcely refrain from chattering and
as he helped nurse to settle herself and
baby, said with a knowing wink in his
eye, “great folks are som’w’at like, the
world o’er, they’re no better than they
should be and it al’ays leaks out.” Nurse
replied in much the same strain and the
two soon found a chance to talk over the
gossip together, and anon the troop of ser-
vants at Walton Hall were posted on the 
old stories about Sir Edward and Lady
Walton, that had been a profound secret so
many years.
	Mrs. Bland interviewed her husband on
the question of taking the Walton heir to
“the new world,” and he thought that if the
Waltons opposed it there might be too much
controversy, and it would be better for Anna
and all around to let the matter rest, be-
sides he said “I’m not sure I can undertake
a sea voyage and for the time being Jane,
advise your cousin not to agitate the sub-
ject wait for circumstances to develop, see
what news will come from Mr. Harrison
and Clair, they will not remain away
always, and should Clair return she would
be more cheerful and her life would be quite
different, he ought to come back and look
after the estate, it needs a master, every-
thing will go to ruin under such poor
management, left to incompetent people
who think of nothing but eating and drink-
ing.”
	“Poor Anna how sorry I am for her she
is so unhappy,” replied Mrs. Bland, “I
tried my best to interest her in some way,
but she broods over Maitland’s neglect, and
never thinks of her own health; what a
change from the time when I came to my
uncle, how beautiful she was, how firm the
step, and her voice was as sweet as a young
lark’s, if she could only rise above it and
find some solace in life, not that I would
like to see her dash into society among the
frivolous butterflies of fashion, like Lady
Walton her mother-in-law, O, no, she is
far too good to live for admiration, to dance
and flirt, and idle- away her time among the
beau monde."

[Column 2]	
	"And pray my dear what would you
advise a woman tc do who is young, beau-
tiful, and attractive, and whose husband
follows the devices of fashionable life, and
leaves her at home to depend on her own
resources. to pass away the time; remember
people like your cousin, have no household
duties, they are simply to be waited upon,
and to take no thought of their establish-
ments, and in her case she is scarcely the
mistress, though the Lady in chief is away,
the Walton household would scarce recog-
nize such a dainty young woman to control
the affairs, but Jane my dear you have
never told me before of Maitland’s aunt,
who is she? and why does she assume to
dictate to her nephew’s wife?” the Doctor
stopped short waiting for a reply from his
wife, but she knew very little about Miss
Walton. “She is a spinster aunt, and puts
on airs evidently, finding my cousin such a
lamb-like creature; possibly thinks she can
make capital out of her, and get her own
ends gratified, find a rich husband at the
seaside; . bathing resorts are considered
famous places for match-making I’ve been
told, but if she once rouses Anna’s stubborn
nature, she will find the old lion in her,
though so far in her life it has not been
roused; I have seen enough to know that
the same indomitable will power that uncle
Edward had is latent in his daughter, and
the Walton’s must take care they don’t go
too far; once the Hilliard blood is stirred,
one could scarcely feel safe as to results."
	“Let us hope my dear that all will settle
down quietly, Anna has shown that she
can bear a great deal without retaliating.”
	“From Maitland yes, perhaps from his
mother, but not from a third party; I ad-
vised her not to allow the subject to come
up, and I wish it never might; she is very
excitable. You asked just now dear, what
a pretty woman could do under such circum-
stances as Anna’s. She might devote her-
self to music, she plays beautifully, but
then there is no one to hear her, she re-
ceives no visitors except such as her hus-
band brings, and they are not people he
wants her to mingle with. She is simply
shut out from the world, and she is right in
trying to go away and get Maitland to
change his habits of living altogether; I
wish with all my heart something would
transpire to  induce him to go abroad any-
where almost, and whatever came of it, it
would be a relief.”
	It was not many days until something
did happen and a decided change in all the
family took place. News came from Italy
of Lady Walton’s engagement to an Italian
Count. Maitland was furious, the lawyers
from London were sent for and the house
was in great confusion. Aunt Walton was
indignant and poor Anna in a constant
fever of excitement lest there should be
serious difficulty; she said nothing except
to try and persuade Maitland to wait for
more than a floating rumor, but he could
not be silent. “He’s some poor rascal no
doubt who wants money to carry his title,
and thinks he can come over here, and con-
trol Walton Hall, and bring his violet-eyed
crew with him, and sport and hunt; and
play too may be, here in this very house,
I’ll teach him a lesson, he can’t come here;
I’m master of Walton Hall and no Italian
Count can intrude upon my domain,” all
this was poured out to his demure little wife
and much more in the same strain.
	By and by a letter came to the barrister’s
office in London, saying Lady Walton’s
marriage with the Count Sautarelli would

[Column 3]
be solemnized in Rome, and the party
would travel on the continent before return-
ing to England. Everything was to be
very quiet, and Maitland was not to be dis-
turbed by any arrangements, that might
be necessary to make in preparing papers,
or documents. Lady Walton would be
grieved to cause her son the least unhappi-
ness. All these facts were communicated
to Maitland after the manner of the English
law, and notwithstanding Maitland’s annoy-
ance he consoled himself by thinking he
was still more his own master, than if his
mother were to return alone; she would be
too much engrossed with her new conditions
to interfere with him. But she was draw-
ing heavily upon her banker and he began to
inquire as to his own rights of interference.
He found that his father had settled things
a little differently to most English noble-
men, and his mother’s inheritance was the
lion’s share of all except the country seat of
which he had entire control, but with the
understanding it was her home whenever
she chose to remain there. Maitland had
been betting heavily of late and entertain-
ing his comrades in a much more extrava-
gant fashion than usual, he knew he was
drawing largely but never dreamed his
mother would marry again and their in-
terests be divided; no provision in the will
had hinted at another marriage and Mait-
land had fancied his mother’s love for him
was the one tender passion of her lifetime.
He knew little about women in a general
sense, his companions were men, and he
never knew much of the domestic life of
his own parents. He had been sent to
school early and traveled abroad with a
private tutor who was wholly devoted to
subjects apart from women, and he had
fallen in love with an unsophisticated girl
when quite young, and he drew all his
conclusions from his own experience, for
he had neither been a great reader of
character, or student of books. In fact
though Anna worshipped him as she did, he
was only very common place in many res-
pects except that he was “well-born.”
	Lady Walton’s marriage ceremony was
performed by Father Giuda a Roman
Catholic Priest and Miss Walton the aunt
was furious when the news came that any
one who had ever borne the Walton name
should be connected with the hated Catho-
lics, “to think my brother’s wife should
stoop so low, its a wonder he can rest in
his tomb, but the dead don’t know I’m
sure of it or many things would transpire
we never hear of.”
	“O don’t take it so to heart,” said Lady
Anna pitifully, for she was generous to her
enemies even, and Aunt Walton had shown
no consideration for her, “I’m sure Lady
Walton means it all for the best, she was
very lonely here, and she tired of society,
didn’t know what to do after Lord Walton’s
death and so went abroad to forget her
troubles.”
	“Troubles she never had any, and as for
occupation isn’t there plenty to do on an
estate like this, looking after the people
that are employed to see that they don’t rob
you at every turn,” said the aunt taking
the matter practically as she was likely to,
seeing she was a younger member of a
family where the eldest son had inherited,
and others were left with only a pittance.
	“How do you know the dead can’t come
back, Aunt Walton?” inquired Lady Anna
half afraid to ask the question, I should
like to know more than I do about such
matters, I often have thought of late if


only my mother would come and talk to
me, and comfort me I should be better and
happier.”
	“Really Anna you alarm me, are you
losing your wits, you have everything, and
then want the dead to come to you, well for
my part I prefer the living, but if you like
ghosts and all that sort of thing you ought
to be content for this old place has a legend
that would satisfy the most superstitious.”
	“This very place Walton Hall aunt, do
you mean what you say? Maitland surely
didu’t know when he brought me here.”
	Very likely not my child, but Lady Wal-
ton knows, and that is probably one of her
reasons for going away, as for me I’m too
practical for these things to make any im-
pression, and if the ghosts came to me I
should simply defy them, and tell them I
wanted to be left alone, and get my re-
gular night’s sleep; but its only silly,
nervous, fidgety people that ever see
them.”


WOMANS EXPONENT.﻿


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
