[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | July | Issue: 1 | Title: HANNAH T. KING. | Author: HANNAH TAPFIELD KING]

HANNAH T. KING.

	THE 1st,of July Saturday was observed by
a few intimate friends in accordance with
arrangements made two years ago, to set
apart a day to the memory of this gifted
woman. At the hour named in the invi-
tation several ladies assembled at the resi-
dence of Mrs. Emily H. Woodmansee a sis-
ter poet and country woman of Mrs. King’s,
the afternoon and early evening were devot-
ed to reminescences of the life, writings and
friendships of Mrs. King. One of the 
dear ones who had been present on the
former occasions, was sadly missed, and 
some tears were visible when the fact was 
alluded to, but we all know and realize 
that Sister Howard has only passed to a 
higher position and therefore we rejoice in
the midst of our mourning that she has
reached the spirit world where many
of our loved ones are waiting.
	Mrs. Woodmansee’s rooms were prettily
decorated with flowers and vines, and the
day was a charming one.
	The guests present were Mesdames Zina
D. H. Young, M. Isabella Horne, Helen
M. Whitney, Emmeline B. Wells, Fewson
Smith, Maggie Alford, Louisa Spencer,
Elizabeth Mc Farlane, Kate Brockbank,
Maggie Young, Julia C. Howe,Lula Greene
Richards, Emily H. Woodmansee (the
efficent hostess) and the young ladies of
the house, three daughters, Gladys, Pearl,
Myrtle and niece Edith Ivins of St. G[-]orge;
the dining-room was cool and pleasant, the
trailing vines, at the east window made a
graceful background for the picture, when
the guests were seated. At each place 
was a double card addressed to the person
occupying the seat, and on one side an ap-
propriate quotation from the Book of
Psalms, (which Mrs. King loved so much)
and on the other the stanza versified by
Mrs. Woodmansee, so as to make the
souvenir in remembrance of both Mrs.
King and Mrs. Woodmansee. After the 
repast, which it is safe to say everyone en-
joyed, each one present paid a fitting tribute
to Mrs. King as a memorial of friendship
either by repeating one of her own verses
or a few words impromptu. A sonnet by
Mrs. King was read by Mrs. Wells.

I love thee st[-]l[-]! these words contain,
A language that the angels do rehearse,
Yes, yes ’tis written in the universe—
The hills and mountains do its truth proclaim,
The running brooks and all the mountain streams
The glorious sun with his effulgent beams;
The ambrosial air, the flowers sweet perfume;
The song of birds, the stars that do illume;
And ah! the silver moon, the queen of night,
On which the lover’s mind doth so delight—
All these proclaim with never failing thrill
To the responsive soul, I love thee still.

	After repairing to the parlor again Mrs.
Wells read each of the souvenirs for the
benefit of all,and ice cream and sweetmeats
were served, when all joined in singing
“O, my Father thou that dwellest,” and a 
benediction was pronounced by Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young. During the afternoon many 
beloved ones who have passed away were 
remembered and their virtues alluded to

[Column 2]
and the sweet friendship recognized, among
these departed veterans were Mother
Whitney, Vilate Kimball, Eliza R. Snow,
Mary Ann Young, Presendia L. Kimball,
Phebe Woodruff, Marinda Hyde, Sarepta
Heywood and Elizabeth Howard;
							E. B. W.


The lines below were also brought to the 
party as a memento and appear in print for 
the first time.

[Addressed to Sister Brockbank suggested by 
her silence.] 
Speak! speak, love I implore thee!

Yes! speak dear girl! and break the spell
	That seals those lips of thine! 
For truly, I do know full well
	There’s wealth within the mine!

That mental mine of hidden wealth 
	Unknown, and unexplor’d—
E’en by yourself—as if by stealth 
	You glance upon the hoard! 

I would not flatter—God forbid!
	Your faithful friend—am I
And you'll despise me if I did--
	I read that in your eye!—

That eye!—yes, yes 'tis there I read 
	There dwells a soul within
Pure—lofty—of heroic creed 
And undefil’d by sin;

Thy spirit’s noble—nothing low
	Dwells in thy heart or brain—
Oh! may the Lord preserve thee so 
	That you, these gifts retain.

They are more precious than the gold,
	Of Ophir—so renown’d!
And may they e’er thy form enfold 
	And thy brow with them be crown'd 

Then trust me, you will walk the earth 
	A Priestess, and a Queen! 
And all will read your noble birth
	By your regal step and mein;

For virtue, is a woman’s crown,
	Her laurel’d diadem!
And wearing that,—is full renown 
	With Angels—God—and men.

You are but starting in the way, 
	Of life's untrodden road,
Oh! may your strength be as your day 
	Of whatever weight the load.

I love you! yes I do admire 
	The germ I see in you!
Oh! may your soul by God’s own power,
	Be lighted up anew!

Yes daily lighted up, that you 
	May see where darkness reigns,
And by its light your lamp renew,
	And heal your woes and pains;

Then will your heart and mind be free 
	With Heaven’s peculiar food,
And by God's spirit you'llbe led 
	To an eternal good.

And then where’er we hear your voice
	In low angelic tone 
Your friends will listen and rejoice 
	And feel love makes us one!
			HANNAH TAPFIELD KING.
August 18th, 1864.


