Summer Camps of the Y. L. M. L. A. By Rosetta W. Bennett, Chairman Summer Camp Committee of the General Board of the Y. L. M. I. A. HE love of nature and the lure of outdoor life is very greatly developed in the hearts and lives of the Latter-day Saints. Our hearts turn to the Sacred Grove at Palmyra where the boy Prophet sought its seclusion to pour forth the longings of his soul for relief from the spiritual conflict that encompassed him. It was in the grove at Nauvoo where God manifested to the people His choice of Brigham Young as the true shepherd of the sorely harassed and heart broken people. It was the vision of the sheltered valleys of the mighty Rocky Mountains that sustained them and gave them heroic courage to tramp one thousand miles beyond civilization and establish a home in this then desolate country. It was the song and the dance and the game that eased the strain of the journey. The mountains were friendly and gladly gave of their timber to build houses and make fires; gave of their fresh sparkling snow-born streams to revive the parched land and swell and develop the treasured seeds committed to the bosom of mother earth with such _ perfect, compelling faith: gave of their wild fruits and game to lend variety and cheer to their scanty board; gave of their flowers and bird-songs to gladden their eyes and hearts; and gave them glorious promisse for the future. If was to lovely Brighton Valley at the top of Big Cottonwood Canyon that Brigham Young led his people in July, 1857, to spend several days in celebration of the tenth anniversary of their entrance into the valley. There in prayer and speech and feasting, dancing, games or songs, they gave thanks to God for their safe refuge from the violent storms that had beset them so cruelly in the past. In the city pleasure resorts were laid out that all might have recreation: Calder's Park, Lindsay's Gardens, Fuller's Hill, Lake Shore, Black Rock, Garfield on the shore of Salt Lake. These places the children of the Pioneers remember with delight. Here 'Bishops of Wards with their entire flock, made yearly pilgrimage. A whole day of unalloyed delight, an organized, supervised day with prayer at beginning and close of it, a Brass Band to head the long line of wagons and hay-ricks, etc., a bag of candy for every child and every child in the ward there. If it should rain and we couldn't go— desolation!! Would morning never come so we could don our new dress and hat and shoes, unloose the tightly braided hair and tie on the precious blue or pink ribbon and so adorned fly to the meeting house and wait to be tucked into the straw laden wagon box and at last be on our happy way to swing under the great cottonwood trees, go boating on the silvery lake, play ball, dance, run races, etc.? In the fall families went to the mountains, the men to cut logs for firewood, the women to gather wild fruit for winter jam. They slept under the stars beside the singing streams, listened to the murmur of 10 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the trees, the song of the birds and the hum of insects and gazed upon the mighty hills and felt the majesty of earth and sky and knew God was there. In their mountain Retreat God did strengthen their feet and Foe pare separ meer roe: Gee uplift and power to be clean and true. A> the people grew in numbers, cities sprang into being, claims of community life multiplied and. Err en — bis is = % ss a q A FEW OF THE ATTRACTIVE Y. L. M. I. A; SUMMER CAMPS gave them power, by the touch of the mountain sod to become a physically strong, healthy people, and by the call of the mtghty mountain peaks gave them moral and spiritual commerce with the outside world threw wide our gates and our sheltered retreat became the highway of the westward moving nation. The stress and push brought many SUMMER CAMPS 11 changes. Mechanical inventions made possible the manufacture of most things that were formerly made in the home. Easy transportation brought them to our doors. The new era brought new responsibilities. New adjustments must be made, our hands must learn new occupations. Many boys who worked on farms, women who (formerly were fully occupied in the home, must go out of the accustomled course and find employment in the became an individual affair largely. Many people built cabins in the mountains and took their families to these cool retreats for a few weeks in the heat of summer. Many could not afford to do this and so lost much benefit and joy. HINKING people everywhere realized that change and recreation must be had and provision made for it if people were to live full, happy lives. Brigham Young SLEEPING APARTMENT OF FIRST Y. L. M. I. A. CAMP new mechanical and business world in order to live and develop and keep in the van of Progress. Hours of confinement at machine or desk brought greater physical, nervous and mental strain. Opportunities for better educational and cultural advantages presented themselves and life became more complex and demanding. We could not so easily or frequently or with such freedom enjoy the beauties of our canyons, mountains, lakes, etc. Where wards used to provide for the vacations of the masses of the people it now taught his people to play as well as to work. He encouraged music, drama, dancing, physical sports for the recreation and relaxation of the people. In later years the Latterday Saints have made a more concerted effort to encourage proper recreation among the people and-to the M. I. A. Have been assigned the special duty of creating and supervising recreational activities in the Church. The Young Ladies' M. I. A. Have instituted a special feature in recreation in the Summer Camp Movement; the idea being to build 12 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Summer Camps in the mountains, on lake shores, etc., in places of easy access but away from the highways, so that they may be by themselves and enjoy the outdoor life and carry out their programs without restraint other than the rules governing their association. The first organized movement seems to have been among the officers of Liberty Stake in Salt Lake City. Sister Emily H. Higgs, the President of Liberty Stake Y. L. M. I. A., in '1912 obtained permission from Brother Godfrey of that Stake to build a little camp on his farm at the mouth of Big Cottonwood Canyon and on the creek or river of that name. Hugh J. Cannon, President of Liberty Stake, entered most heartily into the scheme and with the cooperation of the Priesthood and the M. I. A. Stake officers and ward associations, the camp was built. A. Kitchen, a combined screened in dining room, and sleeping quarters were built. A swimming pool was prepared in a secluded spot on the river bank, a -tent pitched for a dressing room and all was ready for the eager girls who drew lots to see which ward should occupy the camp first. Schedules and rules were made, supervision and profection provided and success attended the movement and untold benefit both physical and spiritual followed. SISTER JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT, visited the camp and very 'shortly thereafter, with the cooperation of her Stake Priesthood and the M. I. A., opened a camp in Provo Canyon, and not long after Alpine Stake (now including Lehi and Timpanogos Stakes) built "Mutual Dell,' in American Fork Canyon. A few years later the General Board, realizing the wisdom of the movement appointed a committee to consider a summer camp in Brighton, the lovely valley at the head of Big Cottonwood Canyon— the place chosen years before by Brigham Young for the tenth celebration of the entrance into Salt Lake Valley, July 24. With the aid of members of Y. M. M. I. A. Board, of Salt Lake Stake, and others, a spot at the extreme end of the Valley behind giant boulders, and upon the mountain side was chosen and dedicated for the building of a Summer Camp for M. I. A. Girls. It was dedicated as a place of safety, peace, rest, health and joy,—a place where girls might rest and play and refresh themselves in the very heart of nature, in the tops of lofty peaks, on the banks of mountain lakes, in leafy dells and shady paths. Brother Jesse Knight of Provo owned timber concessions near the site and he generously allowed the committee, for a small consideration, to cut the logs for the building. It was erected and later the four Salt Lake City Stakes, Liberty, Salt Lake, Ensign, and Pioneer, took over the project and improved and developed it until it is one of the most beautiful mountain camps in the Church. It is operated upon a thorough business basis and is self-supporting. Thousand of M. I. A. Girls and many of their mothers, find rest, relaxation and recreation under its friendly roof. The Logan Stakes built their lovely home about the same time. Bear Lake, Box Elder and the four, Ogden Stakes followed. Still more recently, Beaver, Maricopa and the Pima Ward of the St. Joseph Stake have erected camps, and others are in prospect with officers all over the Church enthusiastic in their efforts to establish delightful camps for their girls. The Summer Camp SUMMER CAMPS 13 Movement is thoroughly organized. In preparation for the camps we have the following organization: 1. Executive Committee. 2. Light and Building Committee. 3. Finance Committee. 4. Furnishing Committee. 5. Management Committee, and in the Camps themselves, under the direction of the M. I. A, Stake Officers: 1. A House Mother, 2. A Kitchen Supervisor, 3. A Recreational Leader. Wards come to camp in organized groups with their own leaders who cooperate with the camp offcers. Every girl is welcome, has her place, and is made happy and in turn contributes to the well being. And happiness of all the others; each one is under the inspiring influence of competent physical and spiritual leaders. This movement has the support of the Priesthood—in fact cannot prosper without it—also the support of the mothers of the girls who have been in the camps, and we plead for the support and cooperation of all our mothers. Now if our great Mother organization of the Church, the Relief Society,. Will join with us in this great movement for supervised summer recreation, we would indeed be happy. Come and spend summer days with us, your daughters.. Great good would come to us for we could gather to ourselves the riches of PIMOLA SUMMER CAMP, PIMA, ARIZONA your experience and wisdom and great spiritual strength and the clear vision of your tested faith. You could enjoy in us the renewal of your youth, the ardent enthusiasm of our quest. For happiness, and away from the stress and routine of every day affairs, we could be united in heart «and purpose and more fully cement our efforts for the building of future noble womanhood.: A NATURE STUDY GROUP
