; A Hidden Opportunity By Rose Ellen B, Valentine AF'TER considering for days whether or not to take a vacation, I finally came to a decision on July 18, 1926, and concluded to join some relatives and friends in an excursion trip to Los Angeles. Plans and arrangements for the journey were discussed, and upon retiring for the night my mind was filled with delightful thoughts of travel, new faces, strange scenes, and sweet rest. Upon reaching our offices the following morning, we received an inquiry from the First Presidency of the Church concerning our conditions and our feelings, with respect to a call for my husband to preside over the German-Austrian Mission, with headquarters at Dresden. With mingled feelings of disappointment and exquisite joy the California trip was swallowed up in the more absorbing preparation for the European journey and the missionary responsibility. Under the hands of the First Presidency of the Church, President Anthony W. Ivins being mouth, I was set apart as a missionary and as President over the Women's Organizations of the German-Austrian Mission, under the direction of my husband—a rare privilege and one calling for divine guidance. With great faith in the promises of the Lord, I went forth. HE farewells and separation from friends and loved ones closed another chapter in life's history, and a new one opened up, in those bright autumn days as the great train carried us eastward, and more eastward, to Chicago, Buffalo, including Niagara Falls, and on to Montreal. Here we boarded the Canadian Pacific Liner, Montrose, which glided down the majestic St. Lawrence River, skirted on either bank with the autumn splendor of colorful foliage. A few hours stop at Quebec, for the pickup of the last Mail gave the passengers time for a stroll in the midnight moonlight, through the winding streets of the quaint old City of the Dominion. When morning came, we were already on the mighty deep. The number of hungry guests to the dining room grew fewer. Physical adjustments were being made; many quickly found their bearings and availed themselves of sea voyage comforts, while others were forced to endure seclusion until the welcome sight of land appeared. AT Liverpool, there was a rush through the customs, a bustle about the city, and away to Harwich and the continent. We, however, spent a day or two in the genial warmth of the fireside of President and Sister James E. Talmage of the European Mission at Durham House, after which we wended our way to Leeds, to the loved ones of my father, James Bywater; then to London, and on to Dresden, the home of the Mission, where we discovered that we had been anxiously awaited, that we might participate in the last of the autumn conferences. A few hours of readjustment and off we went, to Berlin and to the first of our Conferences— a picture, unbelievable—the assembly hall of the Elizabeth School, in the vicinity of the Alexander Platz in Berlin filled beyond capacity! What a change, formerly 38 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hunted, now protected; at one time banished, now made welcome in their spacious school buildings! Would that the same recognition might come everywhere. DISTRICT CONFERENCE is no longer a preaching service alone, but includes, a recreational program, sacred pageantry, department meetings and convention work, as well. How admirably are the school buildings suited for such a program, with their gyms, assemblies, and class rooms. My joy at greeting again the sisters of the Relief Society, in a meeting at the close of the afternoon session of the conference was quite complete. Almost a foretaste of heaven, to be again among those whom we had aided and assisted in this organization so many years before. It was difficult to again use the adopted tongue which had fallen more or less into subconsciousness because of disuse. Truly, nature seems to bestow upon us according to the use and application which we make, while penalizing us for disuse. We soon became aware that the work had been going steadily on since our departure from the Mission in 1917, for we found it much in advance of what it was at that time. The Mutuals had long since made their formal entry and were now on the verge of specializing in the departments of Scouting, and the Bee Hive Work, and the "M" Men too, were beckoning for attention. a special conference with President Hugh J. Cannon and his wife Sarah, R. Cannon of the Swiss German Mission, we learned that Sister Cannon was greatly imbued with the work of the Bee Hive Girls in the missions, and was directing the translation of a Hand Book, for use in that field. I, therefore, was given the responsibility of supplying or suggesting the material for the Relief Societies of the missions as the successor of Sister Eliza Tadje. This arrangement continued and worked most excellently. Sister Sarah R. Cannon may for all time be proud of the accomplishment of translating the Bee Hive Hand Book for the benefit of the Bee Hive Girls of the German Missions, because too much praise cannot be given for the excellence of that effort. While the Bee Hive Hand Book was going forward, I was groping and struggling with Relief Society work. The whisperings of the Spirit to me and had been and were: "Why not take up the work of Nutrition?" It came repeatedly. I recognized the voice but felt my inability to respond, especially in a foreign land and a strange tongue; and because of so many other tasks, among them the Mission Home, the Mission Mother, and the introducing of the Bee Hive work among the girls of the Mission. Nevertheless the work was growing, and the preparation was in progress, although with my limited finite vision I was not able to discern its development. The organizations of the Relief Societies were increasing in numbers and membership. The societies were better organized and more efficient; the adoption of the Uniform Roll and Minute books was a step forward. LS June, 1928, the Green-Gold Freud'echo, was held in Berlin. At its termination a conference convened, between the presidencies of the two German Missions, and it was finally decided, that an outline on Nutrition should be worked out: and the responsibility of doing this fell upon me since this was more A HIDDEN OPPORTUNITY 39 or less in the line of my activity and research. The Great Nutritional Exposition, then in progress in Berlin seemed providential, and revealed a most helpful source of assistance in accomplishing the task. In vision I saw a realization of the ever recurring urge, yes, inspiration, to have a set of lessons on Nutrition, supported by our Word of Wisdom, for the use of our Relief Societies. The month of July found me in the great exposition seeking material for the outline. I was interested in its completeness, and astonished at its extent. Spacious halls contained all kinds of grains, vegetables, and fruits, as well as animal products—all for the use of man—also accompanying colored charts, giving the food elements of each, and their relative values; and the amount of food necessary, for various ages and occupations, The Histology section was little short of spectacular, showing life sized models in colors, representing the preparation and serving of foods, and characteristic of the countries represented. The latest methods and machinery for the preserving and conserving of fruits, vegetables, and fruit juices, without sugar, and yet retaining their vitamins, covered a large section. Each day a scientific kitchen demonstration was given in food preparation, illustrating the chemical changes which take place, in the various preparations of foods. All of this was most instructive, revealing each day something new which was directly applicable to the homes of the sisters in the preparation of the family meal. While pursuing my investigation, I had the pleasure of accompanying Dr. Max Winckel in one of his classes through the Exposition for educational purposes. This was indeed a treat for thereby one learns the real object of the Institution and the purpose of its organization. Dr. Winckel is one of the 432 doctors, professors, and jurists, whose public spirit made the Exposition possible. He was also one of its directors. One of the outstanding features of the exposition was the section from the Hygienic Museum, of Dresden, called Der Mensch. (Man) I also learned that Dr. Martin Vogel was the scientific Director of that institution, at Dresden. I determined, at once, that I should meet him. ON August 7, 1928, I went to the Dresden Hygienic Museum and asked for an interview with Dr. Martin Vogel, The man in charge replied, with a smile: "Doctor Vogel is a very busy man, you cannot see him." "That is too bad, for I, too, am interested in health problems, I am working in the Relief Society of the German Austrian Mission in which there are more than 2000 German speaking women enrolled. Right now plans are being made it take up the study of Nutrition and I desire to get some information, as well as some suggestions from the learned Doctor," I said. "Wait a moment!" he replied. Upon returning he bade me follow him, which I did. Doctor Vogel greeting me most graciously, thereby putting me at ease. Is it not ever true that the real, big people of the earth, are just plain folk? I told him frankly who I was and the purpose of my visit, whereupon he said, "Your plan of teaching the mothers the necessity of properly nourishing their families is better than our method of introducing it into the schools." I asked — him to suggest a suitable text book, conveying the latest German scientific 40 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE thought on the subject. He said, "There are numerous scientific works, but one covering the subject in a simple way is hard to find. Therefore I am busily engaged in writing a booklet. I have given a great deal of time to it, really more than it would have taken to prepare a large scientific work on the subject. I expect to have it finished within a month or so, and perhaps it will be just what you want." I was happy in the thought, that here was at least a promise of solving one of our problems. In expressing my admiration, for the display which the Hygienic Museum had in the exposition in Berlin, he asked me for my opinion on the Histology Section. In response to my favorable comment, he told me, that years ago he began his research along this line, and how interesting it had become, and expressed the thought that everyone should study the food question, in the interests of their own welfare. "Every morning," he said, "I drink milk, and eat figs for breakfast, and some time during the day I eat raw carrots. I always put a few in my brief case before leaving home, for one never knows what the day will bring in the way of foods. The entire study of this subject has convinced me of the evil effects of alcoholic beverages, and I am using my knowledge and influence against their consumption." At this point I explained to him that in 1833, the Lord gave to the Prophet Joseph Smith a revelation on this subject, known as the Word of Wisdom, which was then, and still is a nutritional guide for the membership of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Immediately, he asked, if he might secure a copy of the same in the German language— it would be another item for the history of the subject. "It is strange," he said, "but in all of my research on this subject, I have never heard of this before.' As we further discussed the subject, he became exceedingly interested and acknowledged it to be in harmony with the latest scientific conclusions. "I am very desirous of securing some of your vital statistics, for they must be far above the average for your country or your neighbors. Will you not write me an article covering some of these?" Needless to say, this request was cheerfully granted. After this most pleasant and profitable interview, and with the materials and information gathered, I set about the task of getting outlines ready, in earnest, and by Nov. 1, 1928, the first three lessons were ready for publication. When Dr. Vogel's booklet, "Nutritional Guide," came off the press it proved to be admirably adapted to our needs and most reasonable in price, and we placed an initial order for 500 copies and later repeated it. Thus was secured the much needed supplementary text for our lessons on nutrition. Imagine, if possible, my satisfaction in this new work to have thus bridged the beginning in such an admirable manner and with such affable, efficient assistance and cooperation. On December 5, 1928, an invitation was extended to Dr. Martin Vogel to give an illustrated lecture on the subject of food values, before the Relief Society of Dresden, to which he replied, "Warum Nicht" (Why not). An exact date was never fixed, for this lecture, and it is my regret that the sisters were not favored with his scholarly appearance on their program. During this interview he expressed his A HIDDEN OPPORTUNITY 41 pleasure in obtaining the article on the Word of Wisdom and the Vital Statistics among the Mormons, and pronounced the Word of Wisdom a rare gem in the Histology of Nutrition. In the sublimity of the moment, and responding to the inspiration of the occasion the Doctor said, "Would you folks not like to have a display of your Word of Wisdom or the History of Nutrition among the Mormons, in the International Exposition to be held in the New Hygienic Museum, in Dresden, in 1930?" I was thrilled! Could it be true? My joy knew no bounds, and with a light step and a happy thankful heart, I hurried home to tell of the offer. My husband rejoiced with me in the blessing of the Lord that. Had come so unexpectedly. This good news was communicated to Dr. 'John A, Widtsoe, President of the European Mission, who looked upon it with favor and urged us to keep it alive and have it materialize if possible. The matter was next taken up with Mr. Artimus T. Haeberle, the United States Consul General at Dresden, who in turn referred the subject to the Department of State at Washington, D. C., for it was thought that we might come in with the section from the United States. We received word from the Department that the U. S. Did not expect to participate since no appropriation had been made for such a purpose. In April, 1929, Mr. Haeberle returned to the United States and took the matter up with Senator Reed Smoot of Utah, and upon the return of Mr. Haeberle to Dresden in July, he gave us some hope that we might secure some appropriation for the display, even at that Jate date, although the United States had decided definitely not to participate as a Nation. IN the midst of this came word of our release, and the arrival of our successors, President and Mrs. Edward P. Kimball. Quite contrary to the general practice of 'haste away' we were together for seven weeks, during which time all connections possible were made for the continuation of all matters under way. One of the most pleasant of these functions was the entertainment of Dr. Martin Vogel and Consul General and Mrs. A. T. Haeberle at the mission home prior to our departure. It was hard to leave amidst such interesting developments, but the work went on to a glorious completion. Many labored to accomplish its fulfilment, and the end is not yet. The glory of the offer is best seen in the grandeur of the Display which appears to be one of the outstanding events in church history as far as Europe is concerned, and commemorates most sublimely the Centennial Year of the progress of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in this the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times, and has revealed perhaps a hidden opportunity for bringing the message of great joy before the inhabitants of the earth. A twin.—Byron. All who joy would win must share it—Happiness was born Grant Stake
