[Vol42 | January 1955 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Lesson | Title: Erratum | Author: Science]
[Erratum in Social Science]
LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
61 
A  Perry  Picture 
MARY  ANN  EVANS 
(George  Eliot) 
1819-1880 
The  Tempo  of  Adam  Bede 
As  we  grow  older,  the  delicious, 
ruminating  pastime  of  conversing 
with  lifetime  friends  about  "the 
good  old  days"  becomes  more  and 
more  rewarding.  Nothing  really 
"happens"  during  the  first  150  pages 
in  this  novel,  so  busy  is  George 
Eliot  doing  just  this.  Her  portrait 
of  young,  strong  Adam  Bede  obvi- 
ously is  based  on  her  father.  Dinah 
Morris,  the  beautiful,  sincere  Meth- 
odist preacher,  contains  elements  of 
both  George  Eliot  and  her  aunt, 
Mrs.  Samuel  Evans,  who  had  spent 
her  life  as  a  preacher.  We  can  safely 
conclude  that  the  scene,  texture, 
movement,  and  at  least  some  of  the 
main  characters  are  autobiographi- 
cal. And  with  what  loving  care 
does  she  handle  each  character  or 
family  group   as   she   plucks   them 
out  of  her  memory-bag  and  on  her 
page  draws  them  into  life. 
But  often,  in  life  as  in  literature, 
it  is  in  those  unspectacular,  rou- 
tine days  of  leisurely,  serene  con- 
tentment when  nothing  "happens" 
worthy  of  entry  in  a  diary  or  news- 
paper that  the  most  sustaining  es- 
sences of  the  good  life  are  to  be 
found.  If  we  might  accept  this  last 
statement  as  her  purpose  in  writ- 
ing the  warm,  gentle,  meandering  in- 
troduction, then  we  see  how  closely 
the  ponderous,  yet  delightful  move- 
ment of  this  first  section  matches 
her  idea.  Gountry  life  is  beautiful, 
quiet,  healthy,  vigorous,  and  good. 
So,  then,  are  the  characters  who  live 
in  the  scenes  she  portrays. 
While  the  book  is  named  for 
Adam  Bede,  while  Mrs.  Poyser  is 
the  earthy,  truth  -  speaking  comic 
character;  and  the  central  tragic 
figure  is  Hetty  and  her  betrayal  into 
child-murder,  the  heart  of  the  story 
lies  within  the  community  as  a  col- 
lecti\e,  mutually  sustaining  unit. 
George  Eliot  takes  us  to  dairies, 
farms,  birthdays,  weddings,  carpen- 
ter shops,  schoolrooms,  and  the 
open  fields  so  that  we  may  see  the 
individual  members  of  the  whole- 
ness that  is  Hayslope  Village.  Her 
peaceful,  contented  pace  is  domi- 
nant from  the  first  page: 
The  afternoon  sun  was  warm  on  the 
fi\e  workmen  there,  busy  upon  doors  and 
window-frame,  and  wainscoting.  A  scent 
of  pine-wood  from  a  tent-like  pile  of 
planks  outside  the  open  door  mingled  it- 
self with  the  scent  of  the  elder-bushes 
uhich  were  spreading  their  summer  snow 
close  to  the  open  window  opposite;  the 
slanting  sunbeams  shone  through  the 
transparent  shavings  that  flew  before  the 
steady  plane,  and  lit  up  the  fine  grain  of 
the  oak  panelling  ....  On  a  heap  of  those 
soft  shavings  a   rough,  grey  shepherd-dog

62 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1955 
had  made  himself  a  pleasant  bed,  and  was 
lying  with  his  nose  between  his  fore-paws, 
occasionally  wrinkling  his  brows  to  cast 
a  glance  at  the  tallest  of  the  five  work- 
men .... 
A  panoramic  view  of  the  country- 
side near  Hayslope  again  details  in 
real,  living  tones  the  pastoral  peace 
of  this  ''pleasant  land": 
Migh  up  against  the  horizon  were  the 
huge  conical  masses  of  hill,  like  giant 
mounds  intended  to  fortify  this  region  of 
corn  and  grass  against  the  keen  and 
hungry  winds  of  the  north;  not  distant 
enough  to  be  clothed  in  purple  mystery, 
but  with  sombre  greenish  sides  visibly 
specked  with  sheep,  whose  motion  was 
only  revealed  by  memory,  not  detected  by 
sight.  ...  It  was  that  moment  in  sum- 
mer when  the  sound  of  the  scythe  being 
whetted  makes  us  cast  more  lingering  looks 
at  the  flower-sprinkled  tresses  of  the  mead- 
ows. .  .  .  Now  and  then  there  was  a  new 
arrival;  perhaps  a  slouching  labourer,  who, 
having  eaten  his  supper,  came  out  to  look 
at  the  unusual  scene  with  a  slow  bovine 
gaze,  willing  to  hear  what  any  one  had 
to  say,  but  by  no  means  excited  enough 
to  ask  a  question. 
She  speaks  of  the  sun  as  ''hidden 
for  a  moment,  and  it  shone  out  like 
a  recovered  joy";  likewise  shines 
forth  the  sound  of  laughter  as 
Adam  walks  in  the  fields  of  an  early 
morning 
.  .  .  and  perhaps  there  is  no  time  in  a 
summer's  day  more  cheering,  than  when 
the  warmth  of  the  sun  is  just  beginning 
to  triumph  over  the  freshness  of  the  morn- 
ing— when  there  is  just  the  lingering  hint 
of  early  coolness  to  keep  off  langour  under 
the  delicious  influence  of  warmth. 
Theory  of  Literature 
From  the  time  she  first  wrote, 
and  throughout  the  rest  of  the  cen- 
tury, George  Eliot  was  one  of  the 
most  popular  of  Victorian  noveh 
ists.  If  there  were  some  before  her 
time  who  opposed  the  novel  as  evil, 
they  were  surely  won  over  by  Adam 
Bede  and  similar  moralizing  works. 
In  chapter  seventeen  the  author 
stops  the  progress  of  her  story  to 
tell  her  method  and  her  goals.  And, 
in  telling  her  story,  the  only  thing 
she  fears  is  falseness;  she  wants  to 
tell  things  as  they  are:  "Have  I  any 
time  to  spend  on  things  that  never 
existed?"  she  asks.  No.  She  pledges 
herself  to  tell  the  life  of  the  country- 
folk exactly  as  she  knew  it,  without 
"prettying  it  up";  how  should  the 
truth  be  told  about  a  husband: 
.  .  .  who  has  other  irritating  habits  be- 
sides that  of  not  wiping  his  shoes?  These 
fellow-mortals,  every  one,  must  be  ac- 
cepted as  they  are:  you  can  neither 
straighten  their  noses,  nor  brighten  their 
wit,  nor  rectify  their  dispositions;  and  it 
is  these  people — among  whom  your  life 
is  passed — that  it  is  needful  you  should 
tolerate,  pity,  and  love:  it  is  these  more 
or  less  ugly,  stupid,  inconsistent  people, 
whose  moments  of  goodness  you  should 
be  able  to  admire — for  whom  you  should 
cherish  all  possible  hopes,  all  possible  pa- 
tience. 
In  painting  life,  she  says,  let  us 
search  for  beauty  of  form,  but  let 
us  also  search  for  "that  other  beauty 
too,  which  lies  in  .  .  .  secret  deep 
human  sympathy."  We  must  be  al- 
lowed to  paint  Madonnas,  but  we 
must  not  be  prevented  from  finding 
beauty  in  "those  old  women  scrap- 
ing carrots  with  their  work  -  worn 
hands."  Beautiful  heroes  and  hero- 
ines are  so  very  rare,  and  they  must 
not  receive  more  than  their  share 
of  reverence. 
It  is  more  needful  that  I  should  have 
a  fibre  of  sympathy  connecting  me  with 
that  vulgar  citizen  who  weighs  out  my 
sugar  in  a  vilely-assorted  cravat  and  waist- 
coat, than  with  the  handsome  rascal  in 
red  scarf  and  green  feathers — more  need- 
ful that  my  heart  should  s\^•ell  with  lov- 
ing admiration  at  some  trait  of  gentle 
goodness  in  the  faulty  people  who  sit  at 
tlie  same  hearth  with  me.

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
63 
Or  as  Adam  Bede  says  of  religion, 
''religion's  something  else  besides 
notions.  It  isn't  notions  sets  people 
doing  the  right  thing— it's  feelings." 
And  finally  these  right  feelings  to- 
wards one's  fellow  man  are  ''a  kind 
of  knowledge,"  the  most  precious 
kind  for  George  Eliot  and  her 
world.  For  her,  human  nature  is 
lovable,  and  the  common  here-and- 
now  the  hest  anyone  can  dream  of. 
Plot  of  Adam  Bede 
Adam  and  his  brother  Seth  are  young, 
industrious  carpenters  who  live  with  Lisa- 
beth,  their  loving  but  jealous  mother,  and 
Thais,  their  father,  formerly  a  workman 
proud  of  his  trade  but  now  addicted  to 
drink.  Seth  loves  Dinah  Morris,  the  beau- 
tiful niece  of  Mrs.  Poyser,  a  kind,  sharp- 
tongued  neighbor,  but  Dinah  desires  only 
to  minister  to  the  needs  of  her  fellow 
Methodists  through  her  preaching.  Also 
living  with  the  Poysers  is  Hetty  Sorrel, 
beautiful,  vain,  and  shallow.  Adam's  love 
for  her  grows,  but  she  is  having  a  secret 
affair  with  Captain  Arthur  Donnithorne, 
handsome,  dashing,  and  heir  to  the  local 
estate.  Hetty  tolerates  Adam,  but  her 
dream  is  to  be  Mrs.  Donnithorne,  and 
Lady  of  the  Manor. 
When  Adam  accidentlly  discovers  Ar- 
thur and  Hetty  kissing,  he  accuses  Arthur 
of  dishonorable  intentions,  and  forces  him 
to  break  off  his  relationship  with  Hetty, 
since  quality  folk  like  Arthur  never  marry 
commoners.  Arthur  leaves  Hayslope,  and 
soon  Adam  is  betrothed  to  Hetty,  who  at 
first  is  indifferent,  then  terrified  when  she 
discovers  she  is  pregnant  by  Arthur.  Only 
a  short  time  before  their  wedding  day  she 
leaves  the  farm,  pretending  to  visit  Dinah 
Morris,  but  actually  she  undertakes  the 
long  trip  to  Arthur  at  Windsor.  Desti- 
tute and  weary,  Hetty  arrives  to  find  that 
Arthur  is  in  Ireland.  Distraught,  she  sells 
her  precious  earrings  and  plans  to  go  to 
Dinah,  but  her  baby  comes  too  soon. 
Filled  with  shame,  dread,  and  animal 
fright,  Hetty  leaves  her  baby  to  die  of 
exposure,  then  plans  suicide,  but  she  has 
not   the   courage,   and    is    taken   to   court. 
The  Poysers,   Adam,    Re\erend   Irwine, 
her  belo\ed  minister,  and  Bartle  Massey, 
the  local  teacher,  attend  her  trial.  She 
seems  struck  dumb,  responding  to  noth- 
ing until  Dinah  Morris  arrives,  prays  with 
her,  and  stays  with  her  constantly  until 
finally  she  confesses  her  crime.  When 
Hetty  is  sentenced  to  hang,  Adam  is  com- 
pletely broken,  but  he  can  do  nothing. 
As  Hetty  travels  in  the  cart  to  the  hang- 
ing, Arthur  arrives  with  a  last  minute 
reprieve. 
Hetty  goes  to  prison,  Arthur  goes  to 
the  army,  and  the  Hayslope  folk  return 
home.  Gradually  Adam  finds  himself 
drawn  more  and  more  to  Dinah,  and  after 
asking  approval  from  his  brother  Seth, 
who  once  loved  her,  he  asks  Dinah  to 
marry  him.  She  admits  her  love,  but  re- 
mains true  to  the  ministry.  She  goes  away, 
but  when  Adam  finally  follows  her,  she 
confesses  her  feeling  that  now  it  is  the 
will  of  God  that  they  marry. 
SigniEcance  oi  Adam  Bede 
George  Eliot  introduced  a  new 
realism  into  the  history  of  the  Eng- 
lish novel.  Her  delineation  of  the 
virtues  of  the  humdrum  peasant 
life  is  one  of  the  most  sympathetic 
and  detailed  in  English  literature. 
More  important,  she  furthered  the 
technique  of  describing  what  goes 
on  within  her  character's  mind  and 
heart,  as  well  as  narrating  outward 
events.  Hetty's  "Journey  in  Des- 
pair" reveals  with  rare  power  the 
inward  workings  of  the  female  heart; 
she  knew  the  psychology  of  woman 
as  have  few  writers.  She  could  also 
portray  her  male  characters  con- 
vincingly. Adam  incarnates  the  vir- 
tues which  George  Eliot  most  ad 
mired:  courage,  industry,  gentle- 
ness, integrity,  patience,  love,  and 
strength.  Mrs.  Poyser's  racy  tongue 
is  memorable  for  such  comments  as 
the  following  on  being  a  wife: 
I  know  that  the  men  like — a  poor  soft, 
as  'ud  simper  at  'em  like  the  pictur  o' 
the  sun,  whether  they  did  right  or  wrong, 
an'  say  thank  you  for  a  kick,  an'  pretend