[Vol42 | January 1955 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Award | Author: Contest]
[Award Winners — Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest]

Her story "The Wilderness" placed first in the 1941 Relief Society Short Story Contest, and '"The Ring of Strength" placed second in 1945. In the 1948 Relief Society contests, Mrs. Bailey was awarded first prize in the short story and second prize in poetry. Her poem "Lot's Wife" won first prize in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest in 1951. Her serial "The Deeper Melody" appeared in the Magazine in 1953-54. Mrs. Bailey's poems have been published in many anthologies, and in many magazines and newspapers of national circulation. Since girlhood, Mrs. Bailey has been active in Church work. She is at present drama director in Whittier Ward, Salt Lake City. Alice and her husband DeWitt Bailey are the parents of three children and they have three grandchildren. Mrs. Bailey is a member of the Utah Sonneteers, the League of Utah Writers, the Associated Utah Artists, and at present is acting as compositor of technical reports, University of Utah, Salt Lake City. Winter Song Thelma ]. Lund A wind-ruffled sparrow on a brittle bough Sings to a world of snow-bent reaches now; And when his chill, staccato song is spent, The solitude will echo his brief lament. + Let Me Shen Answer Frances C. Yost He answered promptly when the call first came. He lit his lamp and went unto Eli. The call heard twice, and then a third the same, And every time young Samuel made reply. At first, he thought the call from earthly spheres, Yet did not falter, did not find excuse. With reverence he spoke, "Thy servant hears."' Even today this prophet's words effuse. When there is hunger on my village street; When I see tears or sense a lonely waif; When little ones pass by with faltering feet; And even older people find the world unsafe; When God needs help, in keeping their faith high; Let me then answer, 'Master, here am I!"' Page 2] Faith and Prayer and Johnnie Morton Maryhale Woolsey T seemed to Johnnie that Satur- I day morning, that breakfast was an awfully long time and that food was harder to swallow than he'd have ever thought it could be. It was a good thing, he thought, that Grandma was pretty busy with the waffles and that Daddy's own gladness was so big he didn't pay much attention to Johnnie. Not really, even though he talked to him almost all the time, and Johnnie had to answer. Talk like "Isn't it wonderful, Johnnie! This is the day we'll have Mommie home again, all safely getting well. Aren't we the happiest, luckiest people in town?'' "We sure are!" Johnnie said, hoping his face looked really happy. Daddy's did; his blue eyes were all sparkle, his mouth all smile; and his shoulders had their swing-andsway look—as Mommie called it— as if they were secretly doing a dance to secret music. "We ought to have some flowers in the bedroom for her, don't you think?" Daddy went on. "Let's see —how about a pot of tulips? Real bright, gay pink ones—for a snowy February day—what do you think, Johnnie?" "Yeoh, sure," Johnnie replied. "I 'spect Mommie'd like tulips better than anything." "Okay, then. Tulips it shall be. I'll order them first thing this morning, and put both our names on the card—I mean, all three of our Page 22 names. Grandma's name should be on it, too." "Sure it should," said Johnnie. He managed a smile at Grandma, and hurried to take a big bite of waffle and honey while she was looking at him, so she wouldn't expect him to say more. Usually, Grandma seemed to think he talked too much. He didn't want her to wonder why he was so silent this morning! He almost wished it was a school day, so he'd be in a sort of a hurry and not have time to think about the troublesome thoughts. And yet, he needed to think about them—or how would he ever get them settled in his mind? He thought again, taking a long slow drink of milk, of the words Daddy had said in his prayer at the beginning of breakfast: "... And we are grateful, Heavenly Father, for the great blessing you have bestowed upon us, in that our dear Mommie is safely recovering from her illness and is about to return home to us again. May we be worthy of this blessing and make her life fine and happy, which you have spared for our sakes. How could Daddy say, Johnnie thought again, that Heavenly Father had made Mommie well again? Mommie had had to go to the hospital and have an operation, and have all those doctors and nurses taking care of her for days and days? Heavenly Father had FAITH AND PRAYER AND JOHNNIE MORTON 23 been asked first; at the very beginning, even when Mommie had been only a little bit sick, Daddy and Johnnie had prayed for Heavenly Father to make her well. Johnnie himself had prayed dozens of times—all by himself; in his room when he was supposed to be asleep, he had got out of bed and knelt and prayed over and over. "Please, Heavenly Father, make Mommie well. She has such a lot of work to do, taking care of Daddy—and me—especially me. She needs to be well and strong And later, when Mommie had got sicker instead of better, and sometimes in the nights her moaning would waken Johnnie, he had prayed harder: ''Please make Mommie get well, Heavenly Father! Please let this prayer be granted, 'cause it's the most important prayer I ever prayed. We need Mommie so awfully much, Heavenly Father! Please make her get well right away!" UT still Mommie had got worse and worse; and at last the doctor looked very worried and _ said that an operation was the only chance for her. So she had been taken to the hospital. Daddy and Grandma, who came to stay with them to look after Johnnie and the house and meals, and Johnnie with them, had continued to pray for Mommie to be made well. But in Johnnie's mind a doubt had come, and grown bigber and bigger: what was the use of keeping on asking Heavenly Father to do it, when it was the doctors and nurses who had to take care of her? If Heavenly Father had wanted to, he could have made Mommie well without all this fuss and worry! What good were faith and prayer, if after all you had to depend on the doctors and nurses and the hospital? NCE the thought had come, it brought up other times Johnnie had prayed, and thought his prayers answered—like when he prayed for a bike, and got it. But Daddy had bought it for him, and Johnnie knew how Daddy and Mommie had talked very seriously about it, because it wasn't easy to spare the money, just when Daddy had had to have a better car. Daddy had paid for everything Johnnie had got, that he'd wanted enough to pray for. And Peter Ellis had prayed for a bike like Johnnie's—but Peter didn't have a daddy at all, and Peter had not got a bike yet! A fine lot of good praying had done Peter! Johnnie had wanted to ask Daddy about it, but somehow he couldn't find words for asking. He'd heard grownups talk about how your faith had to be very strong, sometimes; maybe Johnnie Morton's faith wasn't very strong. It might even be his fault that Heavenly Father hadn't been able to make Mommie well! It was a dreadful thought, that was. At the end of breakfast, while Daddy and Grandma talked plans, Johnnie put on his jacket and cap and boots and went outdoors to play. Or rather, to work; he'd shovel the snow off the walks, he decided. Mommie would like having them clear when she came home, and she'd be proud that Johnnie had done them by himself. The snowing had stopped, and there were light places in the clouds and even 24 one small patch of blue sky over by the mountains. Johnnie got his small push-shovel out of the garage and got busy. Daddy, coming out in his go-tooffice clothes, said, "Good boy, Johnnie! How's it go—hard work?" "No, it's easy," Johnnie answered. "It's not very deep, not even to the top of my boots. I could do twice this much!" Why, he'd be through in just a little while—and then what'd he do? 'The morning seemed suddenly long and longer, stretching away with emptiness. Daddy was smiling with a wise understanding look in his eyes. "Could you, now?" he asked. "Well. How'd you like to go down and do Mrs. Grimes' walks? I was intending to, but it will be clear into the afternoon before I can, and maybe she needs her paths this morning." Mrs. Grimes was a very old lady who lived all by herself in a small house at the edge of town. Folks said she oughtn't to stay there, with nobody to help her and not even a telephone; but Mrs. Grimes said it was her home and she wanted to stay there till she died, and anyway as long as she could carry her own coal, she wasn't going to leave. Besides, with so many lovely friends to look after her now and then, there just wasn't any reason she couldn't stay right where she was! Daddy and Mommie often looked in on Mrs. Grimes, and did things to help. "Sure I will," Johnnie said now. He liked the walk to Mrs. Grimes' house, he was thinking. "I'll go as soon as I'm through with ours." "Fine!" said Daddy. We sine RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 — to step in and tell Grandma where you're going, and that I said you could. And you might ask Mrs. Grimes if she needs anything we could bring her, or if she needs anything special done, besides the walks." } "I'll remember." Johnnie stood by while the car rolled backward out of the garage and down the drive, its tires leaving firm small patterns of squares in the snow. Daddy called, "Don't forget to be here promptly for lunch, if you want to go with me afterward to bring Mommie home!" S if he'd forgot that! Johnnie thought, waving his hand and shouting, "Sure thing!' and thinking how Daddy's voice fairly sang with gladness in it. Johnnie wished his voice would sing like that. But you couldn't be entirely glad, he guessed, when you had doubts in your mind about Heavenly Father's power to do things. It was so important to believe in Heavenly Father! He shoved the pusher busily along the sidewalk, and dumped the snow in small hills and peaks along it. "Hi, Johnnie!" called pretty Mrs. Dexter, the young woman next door. She was sweeping snow off her front porch, and as Johnnie looked over towards her, she thwacked her broom against the railing to clear it of its clinging load. '"Where's your whistle this morning? Did you leave it in bed with your shadow? With your Mommie coming home today, I should think you'd be the whistlingest boy anywhere!" "T... I was busy, thinking, is FAITH AND PRAYER AND JOHNNIE MORTON 25 all." Johnnie began immediately to whistle, and Mrs. Dexter smiled at him and went on with her sweeping, and Johnnie kept whistling, but couldn't make any tune out of it. When Mrs. Dexter had gone into her house again, he gave up trying, and shoveled in silence until all the walks were clear. Grandma came out to look and said he had done a fine job; and then Johnnie started for Mrs. Grimes' house. It was down near the end of Willow Street, at the end of a little lane all its own. Pushshovel over his shoulder, Johnnie walked rapidly, his troubled thoughts heavy in his mind. Down where the lane began, the snow was clean and soft, and unmarked until Johnnie's boots made small deep wells as he stepped carefully along. 'Then he discovered some tiny tracks where a bird had run along on the snow, and the mark of where its wings had brushed the snow as it took off in flight. After that, Johnnie watched intently for other little tracks, and for a brief time his trouble was forgotten. But it came back very soon; almost as if it had gone ahead to wait for him at Mrs. Grimes' house. It was a small, gray house with a red door and red-and-white shutters, and it looked as pretty as a picture on a Christmas card, with the soft snow rounding the roof lines like a white fur bonnet, and the trees all white-and-dark lace ruffled around it. He felt a little disappointed because no smoke was coming out of the chimneys; smoke often made spirals and whirls that he liked to watch, and besides, the picturehouse wasn't quite right without smoke rising up tall from it. Maybe—a thought came to him suddenly—Mrs. Grimes had emptied her coal bucket and hadn't wanted to go out in the snow to get more. Maybe he'd better do the back yard walk first.... No, first he'd better tell her he was here, and ask where she'd rather have him begin! He stood his pusher up against the porch and went up to the red door, planning what he'd say: "Good morning, Mrs. Grimes. I came to shovel your walks for B24 you E.