[Vol42 | January 1955 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Biographical]
Biographical Sketches of Award Winners in the liza R. Snow Poem Contest Eva Willes Wangsgaard was born in Lehi, Utah. She attended the University of Utah and became a schoolteacher in her home town. She married David Wangsgaard, who had been her teacher in high school, and who later became Superintendent of Ogden City Schools. He died in 1946, the day after their oldest son returned from Japan at the close of World War II. There are three children, all living in Cache Valley. Mrs. Wangsgaard took postgraduate work at the University of Utah and Utah State Agricultural College after her third child was born and taught in Ogden City schools for ten years. She did no writing of poetry until after her fortieth birthday. Her first book, Singing Hearts, was published within fifteen months of the writing of her first poem. She learned to type and studied technique diligently. Her publications have kept a regular pattern, with three other books: Down This Road, After the Blossoming, and Within the Root. She has published hundreds of poems in newspapers and magazines and has won numerous national and local contests. In 1943 she was guest of honor for a week at Huckleberry Mountain Writer's Colony in North Carolina; in 1948 she was invited to Norfolk, Virginia, to give a poetry program in the Civic Hall; in 1954 she was invited to Corpus Christi, Texas, to be a member of the staff of the Southwest Writers' Conference, where she acted as poetry critic. Caroline Evring Miner, a gifted and versatile writer, has won three previous awards in the Eliza R. Snow Contest, in 1945, 1946, and 1950. Most of her writing has been done for Church publications and Church organizations. Many of her essays have appeared in The Relief Society Magazine. "I am grateful for the Church and for Relief Society," Mrs. Miner tells us. "'Because of the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, I am challenged to write a little in the midst of a very busy life, when I might otherwise not do so. I have written several hundred articles, poems, and stories. Most of my writing time now goes into M. I. A. Work, as I am a member of the general board of that organization. 'We are very rich,' 'as my little daughter says. Our jewels are our eight children. Our oldest daughter is married and has a hittle daughter of her own. Our oldest son left recently for a mission in Argentina. My husband Glen D., is a statistician with the Employment Security, and I teach school in Salt Lake City. We live on a dairy farm near Sandy, Utah." Hortense Richardson, Salt Lake City, Utah, is an author currently being introduced to readers of The Relief Society Magazine with her prize-winning aa "Dedication." Her responsibilities and her interests are many and varied. "T seriously started writing poetry in 1941," she says, "and won the prize in The Deseret News Christmas Poem Contest in 1945. Some of my poems have been included in anthologies. I conducted a weekly poetry program over Radio Station KOPP in Ogden in 1949 and part of 1950. A friend played the piano accompaniment, and another assisted with the poetry. Many of my own poems and poems of other local writers were presented on this program. One of my poems has been published in The Improvement Era. My husband and I recently celebrated our twentieth wedding anniversary. We have eight children, five girls and three boys, from three to nineteen years of age. Some of my other interests are: oil painting, dramatics (ward and stake leader), sewing (fortunately, with my family), ceramics, and studying television arts and production. I am thirtysix (or doesn't a woman tell her age?). I have been the literature class leader in the Burton Ward Relief Society for over a year, and am now switching over to work meeting leader." Page 13 Ra \Wiedhoats Annual Relicf Society Short Story Contest HE Relief Society general board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest which was announced in the June 1954 issue of the Magazine, and which closed September 15, 1954. The first prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Alice Morrey Bailey, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her story "Wallflower." The second prize of forty dollars is awarded to Mabel Harmer, Salt Lake City, for her story "A Home for Holly." The third prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Leola S. Anderson, San Bernardino, California, for her story "Survival Under Protest." Mrs. Bailey was awarded first prize in the Relief Society Short Story Contest in 1942 and 1948, and second place in 1946. Mrs. Harmer received the first prize in 1952, second prize in 1953, and third prize in 1944. Mrs. Anderson is a first-time winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest. This contest, first conducted by the Relief Society general board in 1941, aS a feature of the Relief Society centennial observance, was made an annual contest in 1942. The contest is open only to Latterday Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication by a periodical of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1955. Page 14 Forty-one stories were entered in the contest for 1954. Most of these stories were well organized and unusually well written, with careful consideration being given to character representation and development. The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. 'The general board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine, and will aid the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing. Prize-winning stories are the property of the Relief Society general board, and may not be used for publication by others except on written permission from the general board. The general board also reserves the right to publish any of the stories submitted in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. The general board congratulates the prize-winning contestants, and expresses appreciation for all those who submitted stories. Sincere gratitude is extended to the judges for their discernment and skill in selecting the prize-winning stories. The general board also acknowledges, with appreciation, the work of the short story committee in supervising the contest. Sirst Prize - WD arom g S. Tory Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Wallflower Alice Morrey Bailey ALICE MORREY BAILEY face had frozen in a stiff smile as her last girl friend was chosen to dance, and she was left on the long, bare bench of the amusement hall by herself. She could not control a swift glance over near the entrance where there were a few boys looking out across the dance floor with the supreme indifference that only boys can achieve; nor could she control the fervent wish that once, just once, one of them would come and ask her to dance. The saxophone wailed and the M ice Ellen felt as though her floor rocked slightly with the thythm of the dancers whirling past. There were laughter and gay snatches of chatter, and bright colors mingled in a dizzying spectograph. Mary Ellen, watching them, felt wretchedly conspicuous and hurtingly alone. Why was she left out? It wasn't "'see your dentist''—not with her own father a dentist, and taking mighty good care of her teeth. It wasn't her clothes. Her mother had very carefully bought her the right brands when Mary Ellen had explained the importance of it. The dance seemed interminable. Mary Ellen caught herself slumping, 'the lines of her mouth drooping, and brought herself up short, pretending absorbing interest in the couples, leaning out to watch them, turning the corners of her mouth up in pleasant approval. It would never do for envy to show on her face, black as it was in her heart. What more could you do? You bathed until you were raw, you shampooed your hair until it felt like nylon, and you ate this and didn't eat that, and still you didn't dance. It was a phase, Mother said, but she thought everything was a phase. At last the set was ended and they were coming back to their seats. "I've had five dances," Geneva Anne was saying, and a quick Page 15 16 chorus chimed in: "I've had four" — "ve had six'— and "I've danced every dance." 'That was Belva Jean, and it was no wonder. Her father was there, and two older brothers, all of whom seemed to love dancing with Belva Jean. Mary Ellen said nothing. It was good to slip inconspicuously into the crowd, as if she, too, had just come off the dance floor. The music was starting up with tingling interest. Mingled hope and dread built up with it, intensified every time one of the boys started across the floor toward the girls. Sometimes it seemed to Mary Ellen as if one was coming straight toward her. Jerry Farley was now, and it looked as if—Mary Ellen's heart began a slow pounding. "Oh! No!" Geneva Anne was wailing. "Hide me! Jerry's a full head shorter than I am." M'*kY Ellen's eyes flew to him. He was a full head shorter than she, too, but she would have danced with him gratefully. He lived around the corner, and Mary Ellen sometimes played rounders and kick-the-can in his bunch. He was snub-nosed, and looked quite different with his hair slicked down, his suit nicely pressed. He must be past fourteen. Geneva Anne had guessed right, but she regarded him with round, china-blue eyes and shook her head. "Sorry, Jerry, but I have this dance." Jerry knew she wasn't telling the truth, and he stood his ground. "Who with?" he demanded. Geneva Anne was lucky. She was looking wildly around when Flip Nelson came up. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 "May I have this dance, Geneva >? Anne? "Yes, this is our dance, Flip," Geneva said, trying to pass it off that way, but Jerry was not fooled. His face got red with anger and embarrassment. Mary Ellen felt so sorry for him she wanted to cry. She took a step toward him and said: "I'll dance with you, Jerry." But Jerry didn't look her way, only stumbled over his feet getting away. All the girls were looking at Mary Ellen. Somebody _ giggled, and she wished the floor would open to swallow her shame. The enormity of it overwhelmed her. She had asked a boy to dance! And he had refused her! Cold and sick with misery, she backed to a seat and sat down, waves of mortification drenching her. One by one the girls were chosen to dance until she was sitting alone once more. Mary Ellen had meant to stay until the very last dance, and now she wanted to stay more than ever, to show that none of it mattered— Jerry, or not dancing, or the quick and unfortunate impulse—but now she couldn't bear another minute. If she tried once more to lift her head and smile she was going to cry. There was a startled look in Jerry's eyes as she went past him to get her coat, and she wondered what the girls would think, laugh and say she was dumb, probably. The sobs were forming deep within her. It didn't help to remember Johnny Ray singing "When Your Heart Aches. If only Ifethier and Daddy had gone to bed—but they hadn't.