[Vol42 | January 1955 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Fiction | Title: Bathroom Tricks: Novel Towel Holders| Author: Elizabeth Williamson]
[Jo a th room  cJncks 
Novel  Towel  Holders 
Elizabeth  ^^iWiamson 
There  never  seem  to  be  enoiigh  to\\el  racks  in  the  bathroom,  guest  bath,  or 
powder  room.  Old  door  knockers  come  to  the  rescue.  For  individual  towel  holders, 
these  are  distinctive  and  most  unusual. 
J^<J^ 
oy 
Sylvia  Probst  Young 
A  boy  is  adventure,  noise,  and  fun. 
With  a  smudge  of  dirt,  and  his  knees 
Are  forever  out  of  his  o\eralls — 
He's  a  genius  at  climbing  trees. 
He  has  no  use  for  a  pair  of  shoes 
Or  a  shirt  when  the  days  are  long; 
Forever  he's  munching  on  jam  and  bread, 
And  singing  a  tuneless  song. 
A  boy  is  a  king  in  his  own  small  world — 
A  boy  is  exasperating — 
And  whatever  he  might  be  doing  next 
There  is  no  use  contemplating. 
But  a  boy  holds  the  strings  to  his  mother's  heart, 
And  his  sudden  kiss  is  a  cure 
For  any  ill — oh,  a  boy  is  grand — 
I  am  glad  that  I  have  four. 
Page  41

uier  uiobbies   ioring  ^oif  to   (^ythers 
Mary  Elizabeth  Jensen  Bingham,  Behedere  Ward,  Los  Angeles, 
Is  a  Needlccraft  Artist 
■jViTARY  Ehzabeth  Jensen  Bingham,  at  the  age  of  eighty-nine,  still  gives  joy  to  her 
family  and  her  friends,  and  serves  her  Church  by  making  exquisite  handicraft 
articles.  During  the  past  year  she  has  embroidered  twenty  pairs  of  exquisite  pillowcases, 
all  with  crocheted  edges.  Also,  she  has  made  many  sets  of  dish  towels  and  numerous 
crocheted  doihes.  She  is  an  expert  at  quilting  and  has  designed  several  original  quilt 
patterns.  She  has  recently  completed  a  lo\'ely  crocheted  altar  cloth  to  be  presented  to 
the  Los  Angeles  Temple  when  it  is  finished.  Mrs.  Bingham's  custom  of  giving  a 
crocheted  doily  each  month  to  the  eldest  sister  having  a  birthday  during  that  month, 
has  gi\'en  much  pleasure  to  the  members  of  her  ward  Relief  Society.  At  an  early  age 
she  was  responsible  for  spinning  the  yarn  for  her  brothers'  and  sisters'  clothing,  and  she 
learned  habits  of  industry  and  service. 
Sister  Bingham  was  born  in  Logan,  Utah,  and  married  Benjamin  Franklin  Bingham 
in  1885.  Mother  of  six  sons  and  a  daughter,  Mrs.  Bingham  still  found  time  for  service 
as  a  practical  nurse  in  many  communities  in  Cache  Valley.  In  her  early  married  life 
she  subscribed  to  The  Woman's  Exponent,  and  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  has  been 
in  her  home  since  its  first  issue.  Mrs.  Bingham  remembers  the  time  when  she  regularly 
took  her  team  and  wagon  and  gathered  up  her  neighbors  and  took  them  to  Relief  Society 
meetings;  sometimes  there  were  as  manv  as  sixteen  women  and  children  in  the  wagon 
at  one  time.  She  has  served  as  a  Relief  Society  president,  as  a  counselor,  and  as  secre- 
tary. Her  years  have  been  full  of  work  and  happiness,  and  she  has  enlarged  her  own 
personality  by  serving  others. 
Page  42