[Vol42 | January 1955 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Relief | Author: Petersen]
Relief Society Women As Home Missionaries Elder Mark E. Petersen Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 29, 1954] tion to see this building so well filled with stake officers of the Relief Society. It is a great privilege to meet with you. It is very inspiring to observe the great work that you do, and we express sincere appreciation to you for your very effective efforts. This afternoon, I would like to talk with you about missionary work. I would like to mention three different phases of missionary work. But before doing so, I would like to read to you from a_ bulletin which was issued by the First Presidency in 1952 on the stake missions, giving reference therein to the cooperation expected by the First Presidency on the part of the auxiliary organizations of the Church. In the paragraph or two devoted to this subject, the First Presidency say this: G 'tion it is a great inspiraThe stake and ward auxiliaries, with their enlistment committees and other facilities, should lend the fullest possible assistance and cooperation in aiding the stake missionary program. They should gather information on investigators and others who might be interested, and cause such information to be transmitted to the mission presidency. They should, wherever possible, adapt classes to meet the needs of investigators and new converts. Stake presidencies will arrange for a proper correlation of the auxiliary organizations with the stake mission. Now, the first phase of my discusPage 4 sion has to do with the stake missions. Our stake missions are doing a tremendous work. 'They are bringing into the fold thousands of men and women, and boys and girls who live within the stakes. 'They are your neighbors and mine. 'These stake missionaries, as they go out among the people, have a definite program to follow. 'They are using the uniform missionary plan which is being used in the foreign missions as well as in the stake missions. They go into the homes, and, in an orderly manner, give lessons by which they take up various principles of the gospel so that the people can readily understand those principles. We expect that in the ordinary proselyting work, the first contacts with non-members usually will be made by the missionaries. Of course, as members of the Church, you and I should be missionaries and be willing to preach the gospel or explain about the Church to anyone who seems interested at any time. But I mean to say on a proselyting basis, as we go from house to house performing missionary work, the original, the initial contacts are generally made by the stake missionaries, who will begin to give the lessons outlined in a manual to the interested families. Now, after the missionaries have brought the family up to a certain point of interest where they believe RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN AS HOME MISSIONARIES 5 it would be profitable and helpful, they may well notify you as Relief Society officers so that you may send your teachers or other representatives to these investigating families, inviting them to come out to your Relief Society meetings. We do not ask that you as Relief Society workers, go from house to house proselyting, but of course you could invite your non-member neighbors to go with you to your meetings. We ask that you carry on your usual Relief Society work. But when the time comes that the missionaries have developed sufficient interest in an investigator to make it profitable for that investigator to be invited to your socials, to your class work, your lesson work, or to participate in some other way, we would be grateful if you would then step in, as Relief Society workers, and help them to become interested in Relief Society work. WE would be glad if you would talk Relief Society, so that these women can become acquainted with and interested in the Relief Society program. The missionaries will take care of the proselyting part of it, so far as teaching the principles of the gospel is concerned. But we would like, so very much, to have the women who are investigating, even before their baptism, invited to come to our: Relief Society organizations, and those invitations could well be given by your visiting teachers. But I would always plan to make those visits in harmony with the plan of the stake missionaries themselves, so that there will be no conflicting visits or conflicting program of any kind. We hope that you will be neighborly and friendly with these investigating ladies. We in the Church organizations have a great responsibility to new converts who have been brought into the Church. The tendency in some areas is for the missionaries to bring them into the Church through baptism, and then leave them hoping that the other organizations will "pick them up" and carry on with them. However, too many of the organizations do not "pick them up." Too many of these converts become forgotten men and women. This we must change. We must encourage our auxiliaries and our Priesthood groups to become interested in these new converts immediately, and assist them to become integrated into the Church, as well-established, active members. Above all, we hope that the Relief Society sisters will do all they can to help the members of the Church live exemplary lives so that there will be no violations to tear down what the missionaries are trying to do. One of the big hurdles we have to meet in stake missionary work is the inactivity and the disobedience of persons who are members of the Church who are not keeping the commandments. Now, under assignment from the bishop, the stake missionaries may also call on part-member families. Some people have spoken of them as split families, but we do not likc that designation—part-member families is the way we speak of them. Now, if the wife is the non-member in a part-member family, we would like to suggest to you that you approach her in the same way as I have described for a total nonmember family because, of course, 6 she is still a non-member of the Church. However, if, in a part-member family, the wife is a member of the Church, certainly she should be treated as a member and encouraged and warmed in every way you can. And that leads me up to my next point. We hope that we may have full co-operation from the Relief Society in connection with our Senior Aaronic Priesthood activity, which is a definite missionary program. We find that many people are inactive in the Church because they are not converted to it—they do not understand it. Some are inactive because they feel a little bit left out, some say that they have actually been frozen out in some wards where they have lived. We would like to build up in the minds of the wives of Senior Aaronic Priesthood members a definite sense of belonging. We would like for you to treat them as sisters and labor with them and encourage them to come out as far as you are able to do so. ND I believe that one of the most effective ways by which you may accomplish missionary work in regard to these Senior Aaronic Priesthood families is that you take into their homes some definite recommendations and plans encouraging them to observe the Family Hour. I don't know of any way by which you may bring the spirit of the gospel more readily into the home of a Senior Aaronic Priesthood member than to help the wife institute the Family Hour in that home. Especially is this effective where the children are small. As the wife and mother makes the plans for these Family RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 Hours and the children participate, it will not be long until the warmth of the spirit will penetrate to the heart of the man of the house, and he will be able, then, to understand the spirit of our program far more readily. I believe that the Family Hour program likewise will be very effective in a part-member family where the wife is the member of the Church.

The same penetration of the spirit of God will be seen in the heart of the non-member man when his children and his wife participate in a Family Hour program such as that. Then, of course, we hope that you will continue to urge observance of family prayer in each of those homes because, as the wives and mothers and the children pray, they will have a great effect upon the men who live there, whether they are cooledoff Senior Aaronic Priesthood members or not even members of the Church at all. 'That is missionary work. That is right in the line of Relief Society work. After all, we are all missionaries. The worth of souls is great, and each one of us is called to cry repentance and save as many as we can for the work of the Lord. Now my next point is this—I believe there is no greater mission field than your own homes. I believe there are no more precious souls to save than the members of your own family. Satan is making a great attack upon us these days. He seems to sense that his time is short, and he is doing all within his power to destroy that faith which we try to establish in the home. We encourage every Latter-day Saint, every woman especially, to exert all RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN AS HOME MISSIONARIES 7 the power you have to bring conversion into your own homes. Now, if you will examine carefully the attack that is being made by the powers of Satan, you will see that those attacks are more and more assaults upon virtue. It is almost frightening when you pick up magazines and newspapers and when you go to movies and when you see the billboards and you hear the radio programs to note that everything is tainted with this attack upon virtue—just about everything. Now, we must meet that. I believe the first line of defense for vittue is modesty—modesty in dress— and my appeal on this point to you sisters is to remember that you are trying to save souls. 'That is your responsibility. Will you remember that your first responsibility in regard to salvation is to those of your own family, and that you must do all you can to save the members of your family? Will you, as the sisters of the Relief Society, be willing to use this first line of defense for virtue as a means of preserving the very soul's salvation of your daughters and your sons, and will you, the sisters, take a leading part in it? Will you set the example? WE have had some difficulty with mothers on this matter of modesty. Where the M. I. A., for instance, has been trying to get the young ladies to avoid wearing strapless gowns, usually the girls have been willing to comply. We have had our difficulty with the mothers of those girls who insist on putting strapless gowns on their daughters. Will you sisters clothe your own selves in modesty, and then will you clothe your daughters in modesty? I have often wondered what went on in the mind of a girl when she has observed her mother in some of these sun-suits and other immodest things that mothers ought to know better than to wear. What does that do to the values of virtue and chastity in the mind of the girl? And I have often wondered what goes on in the minds of the sons of those women—sons who are just emerging into that age when they begin to take notice of the opposite sex. Now, this is not a matter of fashion. Good taste and modesty are always in fashion—always. As for the men, and I believe that I can speak for the men, I don't believe there is a man living who respects a woman for exposing herself, not even the evil men whose interests are strictly predatory. If you want to save your daughters, teach them modesty in dress, and if you want to save your sons, teach them a proper understanding of modesty and of virtue so that they, in turn, will appreciate true womanhood when they meet it. There is no salvation in immodesty. Salvation rests upon the foundation stones of virtue. No unclean thing can come into the presence of God. The worth of souls is great in the sight of God. Do you remember what The Book of Mormon says, "I, the Lord God, delight in the chastity of women" (Jacob Kero WY Will you be good missionaries in all phases of your activity, and will you uphold the standards that make for salvation? 'That is my prayer for all of you, in the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ. Amen.