[Vol42 | January 1955 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work | Author: Gardner]
WVork IT leeting—Selection, Care, and Use of Household Equipment (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 7—Vacuums Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, April 12, 1955 vacuum cleaner represents a large expenditure for most families. It is an important piece of home equipment, since it protects the investment you have made in carpets, rugs, furniture, and other furnishings. There are two main types of cleaners, straight suction or tank vacuums, and motor-driven brush or upright vacuums. Uprights have a brush that sweeps the dirt loose and a sucking action which carries it up into the bag. 'The tank and canister type of vacuum operates on the powerful suction principle. If there are many stairs to be cleaned, this kind will likely prove more conventent to use. Before buying a vacuum keep the following suggestions in mind: 1. Try out different kinds of cleaners in your home. See which is easiest for you to operate and which does your work best. 2. Check to see if the dirt may be disposed of easily without the use of costly features that add materially to the cost of the vacuum.. 3. Make sure there are guards to prevent marring furniture. 4. See if the nozzle and handle on. An upright vacuum can be adjusted to different heights for convenient and effective use. 5. Look over the cleaning tools. A well-designed assortment of cleaning tools Page 58 when used regularly, will greatly lighten such housecleaning chores as removing dust from window hangings, furniture, pictures, lamp shades, mattresses, bed springs, and polished floors. 6. Check to see if service and replacement parts can be readily available when needed. Several short cleaning periods are kinder to your rug and much more effective in removing carpet soil than one longer cleaning period. Rules to Remember in Caring for Your Vacuum: 1. Before connecting the cord to the wall outlet, make sure the switch on your cleaner is turned to "off." Otherwise, contact in the plug may be seriously damaged. 'To disconnect, grasp the plug firmly. Never tug on the cord. 2. Pick up pins and other metal objects by hand. 'They may seriously damage your cleaner. I 3. Operate your cleaner slowly. The slower the upright is operated, the faster and more efficient will be the cleaning job. Operate a tank type with twice as many strokes as an upright. With either, do not skimp on cleaning time. 4. For best results, operate your cleaner in the direction of the pile of a rug, not across the weave. 5. Always be sure the nozzle of an upright cleaner as at the correct height. The bristles should touch the carpet pile. Oc- LESSON DEPARTMENT casionally turn your vacuum over, place a straight-edged object across the nozzle opening. If the bristles are worn so they do not touch and cannot be lowered, the brush should be replaced. A brush that is lower than necessary, soon wears out and does less efficient cleaning than one that is just the right height. 6. Start each cleaning with an empty dust container. Dust bags are made large to provide a large filtering area and not to hold a great quantity of dirt. To operate a vacuum with a dust-filled bag is like driving a car with the breaks on. 'Tank cleaners have a smaller filtering area. This makes the frequent emptying of them especially important if the highest degree of air flow is to be maintained. 7. Before you put your vacuum away, empty the dirt container. See that the brush bristles are free from hair, thread, string, or lint. Occasionally turn cloth bags inside out and give them a good brushing after emptying them. 29 8. Wind the cord loosely around the hooks provided for it. Avoid kinking, twisting, and stretching. Alternate the winding plan so any wear that might result from winding will be distributed over several points. 9. Refer back to your instruction book often. Thoughts for Discussion 1. It is extravagant to pay for unused conveniences. 2. Do you use your vacuum attachments as frequently as you would like to, or do you need them more readily accessible or in a more convenient place so you will use them oftener? 3. If so, why not replace the box they came in for a self-made convenient-to-use holder. 'Then place it near the spot they will be used most. When put to efficient use, vacuum attachments can save you time, energy, and money. Eee llitcrenre of England Lesson 47—"'Adam Bede" by George Eliot (Mary Ann Evans) (1819-1880) Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday, April 19, 1955 Objective: versal human problems. HROUGHOUT time the best gift any great artist has left his fellowmen is himself. Or if we turn this coin over, on the other side it reads: "No enduring work of art has ever been conceived and executed by a puny person." George Eliot left six novels, some poems and sketches, to vindicate both her character as a person and her stature as a novelist. Of her best-known works Adam-Bede (1859), The Mill on the Floss (1860), Silas Marner To enjoy Adam Bede and gain a greater understanding of some uni- (1861), and Middlemarch (1871), Adam Bede through almost a century has sold twice as many copies as any of her other works, and, for us, it is the tool best-shaped to our purpose of appreciating George Eliot and her contribution to the English novel. Born in 1819 the youngest of five children, Mary Ann spent the first thirty-one years of her life in the peace and security of the rural countryside where she was born. Her father was a carpenter, as his 60 fathers had been for generations. When, because of his honesty, industry, and respect for his betters, he was appointed overseer of an estate by a local nobleman, it was Mary Ann who rode with him in his buckboard as he spent endless hours driving about the countryside meeting the commonfolk and making financial arrangements with them. Thus Mary Ann spent her childhood absorbing the ways and beliefs, the language and the personalities of her own kind. It was at firsthand that she acquired her three life-long loves: love of nature and her beauties; love of common humankind, despite their many shortcomings; and love of a high moral code of belief. Mary Ann was with her father constantly, nursing him for years before his final illness in 1849, when she was thirty. It was not until after his death that she felt she had a right to her own career, which explained her long delay in leaving her country home for the intellectual challenge of the city, in 1851. She came to London as assistant editor of the Westminster Review, one of the most prominent journals of the English reform movement. She soon fell in love with George Henry Lewes, one of the prominent contributors to the Westminster Review, who had long been married, and was the father of three sons. Separated from his wife for several years, he was nevertheless unable to remarry, since at this time divorces in England could be granted only by a special act of Parliament. Realizing the hopelessness of the situation, Mary Ann became George Lewes' common-law wife. 'They re-: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 mained together until his death, twenty-four years later. Not only did these two support Lewes' sons, but the boys' mother also. Thus it was Mary Ann Evans adopted the pen name of George Eliot. She had already written a series of sketches for her magazine dealing with the happy years of her youth. These were so successful that she wrote a novel; however, all her books were published under the name of George Eliot. Only Dickens and a few other identified the author as a woman, and her secret was kept until after her novels had achieved an overwhelming popularity with the English reading public. George Eliot had strong, almost masculine intellectual powers, and loved ideas and the stimulation of discussion and spirited conversation. But she had a most feminine temperament, and the great need of her life was for love and tenderness. Because so many other values of life were shut off to her, her intellectual, artistic world was her only world. Contrary to so many Victorian novels, her books were not written to entertain, but to give life and body to her beliefs. In her books we find an intense moral earnestness; in each plot the moral problem is a choice between good and evil; and the moral values which she honors, are a great justification of the Christian ethics which were the core of her life. Her "religion of humanity," already familiar to us in her Silas Marner, is likewise given memorable statement in her bestknown work, Adam Bede, which has also been spoken of as "our supreme novel of pastoral life." LESSON DEPARTMENT A Perry Picture MARY ANN EVANS (George Eliot) 1819-1880 The Tempo of Adam Bede As we grow older, the delicious, ruminating pastime of conversing with lifetime friends about "the good old days" becomes more anc more rewarding. Nothing really "happens'' during the first 150 pages in this novel, so busy is George Eliot doing just this. Her portrait of young, strong Adam Bede obviously is based on her father. Dinah Morris, the beautiful, sincere Methodist preacher, contains elements of both George Eliot and her aunt, Mrs. Samuel Evans, who had spent her life as a preacher. We can safely conclude that the scene, texture, movement, and at least some of the main characters are autobiographical. And with what loving care does she handle each character or family group as she plucks them 61 out of her memory-bag and on her page draws them into life. But often, in life as in literature, it is in those unspectacular, routine days of leisurely, serene contentment when nothing "happens" worthy of entry in a diary or newspaper that the most sustaining essences of the good life are to be found. If we might accept this last statement as her purpose in writing the warm, gentle, meandering introduction, then we see how closely the ponderous, yet delightful movement of this first section matches her idea. Country life is beautiful, quiet, healthy, vigorous, and good. So, then, are the characters who live in the scenes she portrays. While the book is named for Adam Bede, while Mrs. Poyser ls the earthy, truth-speaking comic character; and the central tragic figure is Hetty and her betrayal into child-murder, the heart of the story lies within the community as a collective, mutually sustaining unit. George Eliot takes us to dairies, farms, birthdays, weddings, carpenter shops, schoolrooms, and _ the open fields so that we may see the individual members of the wholeness that is Hayslope Village. Her peaceful, contented pace is dominant from the first page: The afternoon sun was warm on the five workmen there, busy upon doors and window-frame, and wainscoting. A scent of pine-wood from a_ tent-like pile of planks outside the open door mingled itself with the scent of the elder-bushes which were spreading their summer snow close to the open window opposite; the slanting sunbeams shone through the transparent shavings that flew before the steady plane, and lit up the fine grain of the oak panelling. On a heap of those soft shavings a rough, grey shepherd-dog 62 had made himself a pleasant bed, and was lying with his nose between his fore-paws, occasionally wrinkling his brows to cast a glance at the tallest of the five workmen A panoramic view of the countryside near Hayslope again details in real, living tones the pastoral peace of this "pleasant land": High up against the horizon were the huge conical masses of hill, like giant mounds intended to fortify this region of comm and grass against the keen and hungry winds of the north; not distant enough to be clothed in purple mystery, but with sombre greenish sides visibly specked with sheep, whose motion was only revealed by memory, not detected by sight.... It was that moment in summer when the sound of the scythe being whetted makes us cast more lingering looks at the flower-sprinkled tresses of the meadows.... Now and then there was a new arrival; perhaps a slouching labourer, who, having eaten his supper, came out to look at the unusual scene with a slow bovine gaze, willing to hear what any one had to say, but by no means excited enough to ask a question. She speaks of the sun as "hidden for a moment, and it shone out like a recovered joy'; likewise shines forth the sound of laughter as Adam walks in the fields of an early morning. And perhaps there is no time in a summer's day more cheering, than when the warmth of the sun is just beginning to triumph over the freshness of the morning—when there is just the lingering hint of early coolness to keep off langour under the delicious influence of warmth. Theory of Literature From the time she first wrote, and throughout the rest of the century, George Eliot was one of the most popular of Victorian novelists. If there were some before her time who opposed the novel as evil, they were surely won over by Adam RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 Bede and similar moralizing works. In chapter seventeen the author stops the progress of her story to tell her method and her goals. And, in telling her story, the only thing she fears is falseness; she wants to tell things as they are: "Have I any time to spend on things that never existed?" she asks. No. She pledges herself to tell the life of the countryfolk exactly as she knew it, without "prettying it up"; how should the truth be told about a husband:. Who has other irritating habits besides that of not wiping his shoes? These fellow-mortals, every one, must be accepted as they are: you can neither straighten their noses, nor brighten their wit, nor rectify their dispositions; and it is these people—among whom your life is passed—that it is needful you should tolerate, pity, and love: it is these more or less ugly, stupid, inconsistent people, whose moments of goodness you should be able to admire—for whom you should cherish all possible hopes, all possible patience. In painting life, she says, let us search for beauty of form, but let us also search for "that other beauty too, which lies in... Secret deep human sympathy." We must be allowed to paint Madonnas, but we must not be prevented from finding beauty in "those old women scraping carrots with their work - worn hands." Beautiful heroes and heroines are so very rare, and they must not receive more than their share of reverence. It is more needful that I should have a fibre of sympathy connecting me with that vulgar citizen who weighs out my sugar in a vilely-assorted cravat and waistcoat, than with the handsome rascal in red scarf and green feathers—more needful that my heart should swell with loving admiration at some trait of gentle goodness in the faulty people who sit at