[Vol42 | January 1955 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Poem | Title: Winter | Author: Lund]
I— Winter  and  Childhood 
She  knew  this  canvas  well  where  rushes  grew 
In  rank  profusion  down  a  marshy  stream. 
No  ripple  marred  the  surface  of  the  slough, 
Yet  shape  of  wind  was  everywhere  the  theme 
Caught  in  a  bronze-white  January  world. 
Tall  reeds  bent,  wind-cupped,  over  shrunken  snow 
And,  while  the  sails  of  storm  were  tightly  furled, 
She  felt  its  lashes  ready  to  let  go. 
Yet  stood  waist-deep  in  summer  reeds  instead, 
Heard  killdee  calls  and  blackbirds'  loud  alarms. 
All  love  was  lamplight  and  a  path  that  led 
To  mother's  kiss  and  father's  playful  arms. 
Remembered  voices  bringing  childhood  near— 
But  loneliness  had  marked  her  even  here. 
Page  9

10  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1955 
II— May  and  Love 
She  mused  a  long  time,  staring  at  a  wall, 
And  suddenly  the  painting  hanging  there 
Was  not  a  scene  in  oil.    The  aspens'  tall 
White  limbs  shook  spangles  down  the  waiting  air 
And  lightbirds  chased  thin  shadows  over  grass 
Where  daisy-yellow  nudged  delphinium-blue — 
Live  gold  too  warm  to  let  the  sunbeams  pass, 
Too  radiant  to  let  the  shadows  through. 
The  snowflakes  on  her  windowpane  grew  warm 
And  melted  into  springtime.    Jim  walked  in, 
Bringing  the  gay  lost  years.  All  thought  of  storm 
And  loneliness  grew  pale  and  snowflake-thin. 
They  melted  into  patterned  mist  where  May 
Held  time  forever  in  one  love-filled  day. 
Ill— October  and  Summer  Memories 
She  hugged  its  warmth  and  watched  lost  years  go  by 
Down  love-warmed  pathways  of  another  scene. 
Here  bright  October  blued  the  hills,  the  sky. 
And  shaggy  meadows  wore  a  golden  sheen. 
Behind  the  willow  shrubs,  just  out  of  sight, 
Jim's  shovel  caught  peace  signals  from  the  moon. 
And  now,  as  then,  his  task  would  be  made  light 
Because  she  waited.    He'd  be  coming  soon. 
She  felt  his  joy  embrace  her  as  he  came 
Warming  the  room  and  pushing  shadows  back. 
She  heard  his  silenced  lips  caress  her  name. 
And  life  held  neither  loneliness  nor  lack, 
But  living  years  caught  by  three  artists'  brushes 
In  aspens,  golden  grass,  and  river  rushes.

CAROLINE  EYRING  MINER 
Second  Prize  Poem 
1 1  ill  [Peace 
Caioline  Eyring  Miner 
''My  peace  I  leave  with  you''  ...  in  quiet  way 
Of  soft-voiced  water  lapping  at  the  shore; 
In  whisper  of  a  scented  breeze  at  play 
With  silvery  mist  the  magic  time  before 
The  sun  floods  heaven  and  earth  with  morning  gold; 
In  softness  of  late  shadows  tucked  in  hills 
Like  purple  velvet  laid  in  gentle  fold; 
In  these  my  peace.  I  understand.  It  spills 
Like  perfume  over  me.    His  peace  I  know, 
His  love.  He  found  it  in  blue  Galilee, 
On  Mount,  and  in  Gethsemane.   No  foe 
Can  overcome  if  I  have  eyes  to  see 
And  heart  to  understand  this  earth  so  fair 
Where  beauty  ever  breathes  a  solemn  prayer. 
Page  1