[Vol42 | January 1955 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social | Author: Bowen]
[Social Science: The Constitution of the United States, Articles XI-XV — Amendments Eleven Through Fifteen Albert R. Bowen]
gator  to  be  invited  to  your  socials,  ested  in  these  new  converts  im- 
to  your  class  work,  your  lesson  work,  mediately,  and  assist  them  to  be- 
or  to  participate  in  some  other  way,  come  integrated  into  the  Church, 
we  would  be  grateful  if  you  would  as  well-established,  active  members, 
then  step  in,  as  Relief  Society  Above  all,  we  hope  that  the 
workers,  and  help  them  to  become  Relief  Society  sisters  will  do  all  they 
interested  in  Relief  Society  work.  can   to  help  the   members  of   the 
Church  live  exemplary  lives  so  that 
"IITE  would  be  glad  if  you  would  there  will  be  no  violations  to  tear 
talk  Relief  Society,  so  that  down  what  the  missionaries  are  try- 
these  women  can  become  acquaint-  ing  to  do.  One  of  the  big  hurdles 
ed  with  and  interested  in  the  Relief  we  have  to  meet  in  stake  missionary 
Society  program.  The  missionaries  work  is  the  inactivity  and  the  diso- 
will  take  care  of  the  proselyting  part  bedience  of  persons  who  are  mem- 
of  it,  so  far  as  teaching  the  prin-  bers  of  the  Church  who  are  not 
ciples  of  the  gospel  is  concerned,  keeping  the  commandments. 
But  we  would  like,  so  very  much.  Now,  under  assignment  from  the 
to  have  the  women  who  are  investi-  bishop,  the  stake  missionaries  may 
gating,  even  before  their  baptism,  also  call  on  part-member  families, 
invited  to  come  to  our  Relief  So-  Some  people  have  spoken  of  them 
ciety  organizations,  and  those  invi-  as  split  families,  but  we  do  not  like 
tations  could  well  be  given  by  your  that  designation— part-member  fam- 
visiting  teachers.  But  I  would  ilies  is  the  way  we  speak  of  them, 
always  plan  to  make  those  visits  in  Now,  if  the  wife  is  the  non-mem- 
harmony  with  the  plan  of  the  stake  ber  in  a  part-member  family,  we 
missionaries  themselves,  so  that  would  like  to  suggest  to  you  that 
there  will  be  no  conflicting  visits  or  you  approach  her  in  the  same  way 
conflicting  program  of  any  kind,  as  I  have  described  for  a  total  non- 
We  hope  that  you  will  be  neighbor-  member  family  because,  of  course.

RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1955 
she  is  still  a  non-member  of  the 
Church. 
However,  if,  in  a  part-member 
family,  the  wife  is  a  member  of  the 
Church,  certainly  she  should  be 
treated  as  a  member  and  encouraged 
and  warmed  in  every  way  you  can. 
And  that  leads  me  up  to  my  next 
point.  We  hope  that  we  may  have 
full  co-operation  from  the  Relief  So- 
ciety in  connection  with  our  Senior 
Aaronic  Priesthood  activity,  which 
is  a  definite  missionary  program.  We 
find  that  many  people  are  inactive 
in  the  Church  because  they  are  not 
converted  to  it— they  do  not  under- 
stand it.  Some  are  inactive  because 
they  feel  a  little  bit  left  out,  some 
say  that  they  have  actually  been  froz- 
en out  in  some  wards  where  they 
have  lived.  We  would  like  to  build 
up  in  the  minds  of  the  wives  of 
Senior  Aaronic  Priesthood  members 
a  definite  sense  of  belonging.  We 
would  like  for  you  to  treat  them  as 
sisters  and  labor  with  them  and  en- 
courage them  to  come  out  as  far 
as  you  are  able  to  do  so. 
A ND  I  believe  that  one  of  the 
most  effective  ways  by  which 
you  may  accomplish  missionary 
work  in  regard  to  these  Senior 
Aaronic  Priesthood  families  is  that 
you  take  into  their  homes  some 
definite  recommendations  and  plans 
encouraging  them  to  observe  the 
Family  Hour.  I  don't  know  of  any 
way  by  which  you  may  bring  the 
spirit  of  the  gospel  more  readily  in- 
to the  home  of  a  Senior  Aaronic 
Priesthood  member  than  to  help  the 
wife  institute  the  Family  Hour  in 
that  home.  Especially  is  this  ef- 
fective where  the  children  are 
small.  As  the  wife  and  mother 
makes  the  plans  for  these  Family 
Hours  and  the  children  participate, 
it  will  not  be  long  until  the  warmth 
of  the  spirit  will  penetrate  to  the 
heart  of  the  man  of  the  house,  and 
he  will  be  able,  then,  to  understand 
the  spirit  of  our  program  far  more 
readily. 
I  believe  that  the  Family  Hour 
program  likewise  will  be  very  ef- 
fective in  a  part-member  family 
where  the  wife  is  the  member  of  the 
Church.  The  same  penetration  of 
the  spirit  of  God  will  be  seen  in  the 
heart  of  the  non-member  man  when 
his  children  and  his  wife  participate 
in  a  Family  Hour  program  such  as 
that. 
Then,  of  course,  we  hope  that  you 
will  continue  to  urge  observance  of 
family  prayer  in  each  of  those  homes 
because,  as  the  wives  and  mothers 
and  the  children  pray,  they  will  have 
a  great  effect  upon  the  men  who 
live  there,  whether  they  are  cooled- 
off  Senior  Aaronic  Priesthood  mem- 
bers or  not  even  members  of  the 
Church  at  all.  That  is  missionary 
work.  That  is  right  in  the  line  of 
Relief  Society  work.  After  all,  we 
are  all  missionaries.  The  worth  of 
souls  is  great,  and  each  one  of  us 
is  called  to  cry  repentance  and  save 
as  many  as  we  can  for  the  work  of 
the  Lord. 
Now  my  next  point  is  this— I  be- 
lieve there  is  no  greater  mission 
field  than  your  own  homes.  I  be- 
lieve there  are  no  more  precious 
souls  to  save  than  the  members  of 
your  own  family.  Satan  is  making 
a  great  attack  upon  us  these  days. 
He  seems  to  sense  that  his  time  is 
short,  and  he  is  doing  all  within  his 
power  to  destroy  that  faith  which 
we  try  to  establish  in  the  home.  We 
encourage  every  Latter-day  Saint, 
every  woman  especially,  to  exert  all

RELIEF  SOCIETY  WOMEN  AS  HOME  MISSIONARIES 
the  power  you  have  to  bring  con- 
version into  your  own  homes. 
Now,  if  you  will  examine  carefully 
the  attack  that  is  being  made  by 
the  powers  of  Satan,  you  will  see 
that  those  attacks  are  more  and 
more  assaults  upon  virtue.  It  is  al- 
most frightening  when  you  pick  up 
magazines  and  newspapers  and 
when  you  go  to  movies  and  when 
you  see  the  billboards  and  you  hear 
the  radio  programs  to  note  that 
everything  is  tainted  with  this  at- 
tack upon  virtue— just  about  every- 
thing. 
Now,  we  must  meet  that.  I  be- 
lieve the  first  line  of  defense  for  vir- 
tue is  modesty— modesty  in  dress— 
and  my  appeal  on  this  point  to  you 
sisters  is  to  remember  that  you  are 
trying  to  save  souls.  That  is  your 
responsibility.  Will  you  remember 
that  your  first  responsibility  in  re- 
gard to  salvation  is  to  those  of  your 
own  family,  and  that  you  must  do 
all  you  can  to  save  the  members  of 
your  family?  Will  you,  as  the  sis- 
ters of  the  Relief  Society,  be  willing 
to  use  this  first  line  of  defense  for 
virtue  as  a  means  of  preserving  the 
very  souFs  salvation  of  your  daugh- 
ters and  your  sons,  and  will  you,  the 
sisters,  take  a  leading  part  in  it? 
Will  you  set  the  example? 
"I^TE  have  had  some  difficulty  with 
mothers  on  this  matter  of 
modesty.  Where  the  M.I. A.,  for 
instance,  has  been  trying  to  get  the 
young  ladies  to  avoid  wearing  strap- 
less gowns,  usually  the  girls  have 
been  willing  to  comply.  We  have 
had  our  difficulty  with  the  mothers 
of  those  girls  who  insist  on  putting 
strapless  gowns  on  their  daughters. 
Will  you  sisters  clothe  your  own 
selves  in  modesty,  and  then  will  you 
clothe  your  daughters  in  modesty? 
I  have  often  wondered  what  went 
on  in  the  mind  of  a  girl  when  she 
has  observed  her  mother  in  some  of 
these  sun-suits  and  other  immodest 
things  that  mothers  ought  to  know 
better  than  to  wear.  What  does  that 
do  to  the  values  of  virtue  and  chas- 
tity in  the  mind  of  the  girl? 
And  I  have  often  wondered  what 
goes  on  in  the  minds  of  the  sons  of 
those  women— sons  who  are  just 
emerging  into  that  age  when  they 
begin  to  take  notice  of  the  opposite 
sex.  Now,  this  is  not  a  matter  of 
fashion.  Good  taste  and  modesty 
are  always  in  fashion— always. 
As  for  the  men,  and  I  believe 
that  I  can  speak  for  the  men,  I  don't 
believe  there  is  a  man  living  who 
respects  a  woman  for  exposing  her- 
self, not  even  the  evil  men  whose 
interests  are  strictly  predatory.  If 
you  want  to  save  your  daughters, 
teach  them  modesty  in  dress,  and  if 
you  want  to  save  your  sons,  teach 
them  a  proper  understanding  of 
modesty  and  of  virtue  so  that  they, 
in  turn,  will  appreciate  true  woman- 
hood when  they  meet  it. 
There  is  no  salvation  in  immod- 
esty. Salvation  rests  upon  the 
foundation  stones  of  virtue.  No  un- 
clean thing  can  come  into  the  pres- 
ence of  God.  The  worth  of  souls 
is  great  in  the  sight  of  God.  Do  you 
remember  what  The  Book  of  Mor- 
mon says,  "I,  the  Lord  God,  delight 
in  the  chastity  of  women"  (Jacob 
2:28)? 
Will  you  be  good  missionaries  in 
all  phases  of  your  activity,  and  will 
you  uphold  the  standards  that  make 
for  salvation?  That  is  my  prayer 
for  all  of  you,  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord,  Jesus  Christ.    Amen.