[Vol42 | January 1955 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Three | Author: Wangsgaard]
first prize of twenty-five dollars is awarded to Eva Willes Wangsgaard, Ogden, Utah, for her poem "Three Scenes in Oil." The second prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Caroline Eyring Miner, Sandy, Utah, for her poem "My Peace." The third prize of fifteen dollars is awarded to Hortense Richardson, Salt Lake City, for her poem "Dedication." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society general board since 1924, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second general president of Relief Society, a gifted poet and beloved leader. The contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing, and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society general board, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission of the general board. The general board also reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years Page 8 before she is again eligible to enter the contest. There were one hundred thirtyseven poems submitted in this year's contest. Many of the poems trevealed a discriminating choice of subject material and a careful use of poetic technique. Twenty-two states were represented in the contest entries, the largest number of submissions came, in the following order, from Utah, Idaho, California, Arizona, Oregon, Wyoming, Washington, Indiana, and Nebraska. Five entries were received from Canada and two from England. The winner of the first prize this year, Eva Willes Wangsgaard, was awarded first prize in 1942, 1946, and 1953, and second prize in 1939 and 1947. Caroline Eyring Miner, winner of the second prize this year, was awarded the second prize in 1950, and the third prize in 1945 and 1946. Mrs. Hortense Richardson is a first-time winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. The general board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The general board wishes, also, to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. 'The services of the poetry committee of the general board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and biographical sketches of the prize-winning contestants, are published herewith. :: ccd = a EVA WILLES WANGSGAARD PrizeWinning Poems &liza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest First Prize Poem Three Scenes in Oil Eva Willes Wangsgaard I—WInTER AND CHILDHOOD She knew this canvas well where rushes grew In rank profusion down a marshy stream. No ripple marred the surface of the slough, Yet shape of wind was everywhere the theme Caught in a bronze-white January world. Tall reeds bent, wind-cupped, over shrunken snow And, while the sails of storm were tightly furled, She felt its lashes ready to let go, Yet stood waist-deep in summer reeds instead, Heard killdee calls and blackbirds' loud alarms. All love was lamplight and a path that led To mother's kiss and father's playful arms, Remembered voices bringing childhood near— But loneliness had marked her even here. Page 9 10 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 II—May ann Love She mused a long time, staring at a wall, And suddenly the painting hanging there Was not a scene in oil. The aspens' tall White limbs shook spangles down the waiting air And lightbirds chased thin shadows over grass Where daisy-yellow nudged delphinium-blue— Live gold too warm to let the sunbeams pass, Too radiant to let the shadows through. The snowflakes on her windowpane grew warm And melted into springtime. Jim walked in, Bringing the gay lost years. All thought of storm And loneliness grew pale and snowflake-thin. They melted into patterned mist where May Held time farever in one love-filled day. III—OcToBER AND SUMMER MEMORIES She hugged its warmth and watched lost years go by Down love-warmed pathways of another scene. Here bright October blued the hills, the sky, And shaggy meadows wore a golden sheen. Behind the willow shrubs, just out of sight, Jim's shovel caught peace signals from the moon. And now, as then, his task would be made light Because she waited. He'd be coming soon. She felt his joy embrace her as he came Warming the room and pushing shadows back. She heard his silenced lips caress. Her name, And life held neither loneliness nor lack, But living years caught by three artists' brushes In aspens, golden grass, and river rushes.