[Vol42 | January 1955 | Sequence: 38 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes | Author: Pickering]
Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Laura Millard SUGAR HOUSE STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION May 28, 1954 Front row, seventh and eighth from the left: Anne W. Jones, chorister, and Elva Fletcher, organist. Back row, left to right: Louise Cahoon, First Counselor; Laura R. Millard, President; Bernice Cheshire, Second Counselor. Page 47 48 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 Photograph submitted by Ruth Mae Witt WASATCH STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Front row, second from right (in dark dress): Ruth Mae Witt, President, Wasatch Stake Relief Society. Second row, at left: Florence Whiting, chorister. Third row, second from the right: Yvonne Miller, accompanist. Photograph submitted by Verna A. Hunter LIBERTY STAKE (UTAH) PRESENTS PAGEANT "THEY BUILDED WELL" February 23, 1954 This pageant was presented in honor of the past presidents of the stake, most of whom were in attendance. The pageant also commemorated the fiftieth anniversary of Liberty Stake. Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor in the general presidency of Relief Society, was in attendance. Music was presented by the Singing Mothers under the direction of Vera Clayton, with Nan Jones as accompanist. Representing Mother Liberty and Father Time were Gwen Jones and Abraham L. Stout, with Winnifred H. Smith and Mildred Elggren as narrators. A committee, consisting of Verna A. Hunter, Irma Keller, Kathryn Hopkinson, and Ruby Hunt of the stake Relief Society presidency, and all stake board members assisted in this production, with forty people participating. Verna A. Hunter is president of Liberty Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 49 Photograph submitted by Joan W. Coombs TONGAN MISSION, HIHIFO DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY SHIRTMAKING PROJECT Kneeling in front, left to mght: Counselors Mehame Vaisa and Mele Tonga. At the extreme right: the president of Hihifo District Relief Society, and next to her, Levila Mokofisi. The other women represent several branches in the district. Joan W. Coombs, President, Tongan Mission Relief Society, reports the success of this shirtmaking project and other activities in her mission: '""This is a picture of our first district sewing class on shirtmaking without a pattern, that we are teaching now in all the districts. About twenty attended this first class, and three-fourths of them finished a good shirt.... Since then we have had increasing attendance and wide interest and have held about ten classes, some in districts and others in large branches, contacting about sixty to eighty women who actually sewed a shirt, and many others who came to watch, as they couldn't afford material at this time.... We have had a lot of nice comments from husbands.... I want to report on the success of our first mission Relief Society convention held on the second week in April here in Nukualofa.... The convention plan is new here, but we had considerable success with it and very good attendance. Three of our four districts were completely represented, and one district, which couldn't come because of boat difficulties, sent their district officers... Who then took materials back with them, and are now holding a very good district convention there. We had between one hundred eighty and two hundred at each meeting.... We have finished translating and printing a Relief Society Handbook for officers, taking the parts from the English Handbook that are most pertinent to the work here. We had a two-day convention, with meetings on explanation of the reports, the Handbook, duties of officers, and other phases of the work. Also, one session was a songfest, with our district Singing Mothers' choruses each introducing a new translated song we got from Zion, along with some quartets. Each district is now planning a songfest or 'Tongan concert.' 50 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 Photograph submitted by LaPriel S. Bunker CALIFORNIA MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION, LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA, SEPTEMBER 24, 1954 District Presidents, left to right: June Turley, Imperial District; Jetta Tyrrel, San Gorgonio District; Fay Curtis, Colorado River District; Elizabeth Merwin, Oak Creek; Myreel Lewis, Yuma; Rhea Carrick, Mt. Whitney; Fawn Wilcox, South Coast; Addie Smith, immediate past president, Mt. Whitney District, who has served eight years; LaPriel S. Bunker, President, California Mission Relief Society. Sister Bunker reports this convention as an occasion for rejoicing: ""We were very pleased with the excellent attendance and the co-operation we received from the sisters and the Priesthood members. They traveled long distances and the women brought many handwork pieces for our display, which was very outstanding. At the noon hour we served luncheon to 120 people in the patio of our lovely new mission home. It was a delight for the sisters to see the new mission home and our beautiful Los Angeles temple for the first time.... We felt the Spirit of the Lord in rich abundance throughout our convention. Everyone who took part went the extra mile. I feel that the fasting and praying which many of us did proved once more how ready the Lord is to answer our prayers." o