[Vol42 | January 1955 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Fiction | Title: There | Author: Williams]
Page 38 THERE IS A TIME FOR FORMALITY 39 Hal Rumel TABLE ARRANGEMENT BY FLORENCE WILLIAMS The sweeping half circle of daffodils that extended so gracefully from the bowl and down the table, was wired together with very fine wire. These flowers had also been broken off into two-inch stems and were wired together to give an illusion of solid yellow. The wire was twisted around each flower securely, 'and the streamers of daffodils were about five inches across. The massive brass candelabra at either end of the table, with the tallest of tall yellow cathedral candles, completed the regal beauty of the table. 'The candles matched the daffodils perfectly. Their height gave perfect balance to the table and proportioned it beautifully to the massive room. 'This same centerpiece arrangement has been used by Florence for other affairs at other seasons of the year. In the fall, button chrysanthemums in all the rich fall colors lend themselves wonderfully w ell to this arrangement. Fall fruit, with deep purple grapes, make a dramatic and luxurious appearing table when the grapes are combined with flowers. 'The grapes can be wired as are the flowers and draped over the bow] and down the length of the table. 'They are dramatic and beautiful. Many, many designs can be evolved from this same idea. With a little practice, a generous degree of daring, and a bit of originality, anyone can learn and enjoy the technique of flower arrangement. It is well to keep in mind a few basic fundamental principles which will help your own instinctive ability. First, consider the relationship of the length of the table, the color, and container, to the sizeof the room. If the room is small, keep the table and centerpiece in good 40 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 proportion. Don't let them overpower their surroundings. In the picture above, the room is large, the ceiling high, and the walls are soft green. A massive table was indicated—thus the big, high bowl and the massive candelabra. Second, watch the design of your centerpiece. The ones that lend themselves best cc? Are variations of the triangle, the circle, or half circle, or an open "'s" curve. Third, carefully plan the balance of your arrangement. Group flowers, candles, and decorations within a definite pattern, so that an impression of stability, unity, and serenity is achieved. An artistic, balanced design is lovely from any viewpoint. Remember this. Fourth, have a focal point or a center of interest. In the above picture, it is the Cupid perched on the top curve of the half circle. Fifth, for real beauty in design, there must be a feeling of rhythm or motion. Sprays of flowers, greens, fruit, ribbon—anything which gives graceful lines from the center out can create this feeling of rhythm and motion. Sixth, remember that accent is the added something which makes a table unusual. In this illustration it is undoubtedly the black of the Paisley shawl. Also, accent may be achieved by contrast in color of flowers or container or accessories. It is one of the elements in table decoration that one has to work hard at and has to practice to achieve. Seventh, and last, is harmony. Without harmony of design, color, and arrangement, the beauty is lost. Colors, materials, containers, and all accessories must express an idea—unified and perfectly blended. Scam ia Sotial Stiene® Abeson te November 1054 Mlaga zine T has been called to our attention by Dr. Richard D.
