Frontispiece 436
Class in Charities and Relief Work Amy Brown Lyman 437
A Vacation and a Rag-bag, a story Clara S. Fagergren 440
Temple Work, a poem Ellen Adair 448
A Testimony Elder Peter E. Johnson 449
Am I My Husband's Keeper Mary Foster Gibbs 455
A Victory Dance, a poem Selected 459
The Coming of the Sixth Hazel Washburn 461
An Unknown Heroine 463
Household Hints Janette A. Hyde 465
The Grail of the Fields, a poem Maude Baggarley 468
On the Watchtower James H. Anderson 469
Official Round Table 472
Editorial: Who Pays the Price? A Visitor from Across the Sea 481
Minutes of Genealogical Convention, Lesson Work Suggestions 487

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY
Patronize those who patronize us.

D. C. FELT CHEMICAL CO., Salt Lake City, Utah
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 61-3-5 Main Street, Salt Lake City
DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, 6 Main Street, Salt Lake City
DICKINSON'S, 680 East Second South Street, Salt Lake City
DAIL STEEL PRODUCTS CO., Lansing, Michigan
GLOBE OPTICAL CO., East Second South, Salt Lake City
KEELEY'S, Salt Lake City
McCONAHAY, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City
PEMBROKE, 24 East Broadway, Salt Lake City
ROYAL BREAD CO., Salt Lake City
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 South Main Street, Salt Lake
SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake
TROY LAUNDRY, 18 East Broadway, Salt Lake City
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City 

EULOGY TO EMMELINE B. WELLS (Sonnet) O. F. Ursenbach. How I recall, in those fond erstwhile days, A sweet kind face, my dear old mother's friend;  Though but a lad I, when she won my praise, To see her muse, blessed life with nature blend, A child with children, friend to the oppressed, Yet honored by the mightiest of men;  Few souls with like congenial powers are blessed. To deal with kings, then lowly life again. Now, snows of many winters blanche her brow;  Though ninety-two long years of mortal strife Have aged her frame, her spirit, even now, Presents each day a more majestic life. May her declining years be decked with peace, And may her soul live on and never cease. 
 Class in Charities and Relief Work Brigham Young University Summer School. Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman At the joint call of the general authorities of the Church, the Social Advisory Committee of the Church, and the General Board of Relief Society, through the stake authorities, sixty-eight Relief Society women from sixty-five stakes assembled at the Brigham Young University, in Provo, on May 31, for relief work a regular six weeks' intensive course in charities and With two other groups similarly called, for training in social and recreation leadership, and teacher-training, respectively, there were in all two hundred fifteen special students for these special courses, in addition to the regular college students, numbering two hundred. In order that the course might be completed before the great N. E. A., to be held in Salt Lake City on July 3-10, classes were held on Saturday, making a six-day school week, for five weeks. In the Relief Society Department, there were representatives from Canada, Idaho, Wyoming, Utah, Arizona, and Mexico. In this group were eight Relief Society stake presidents, five stake counsellors, eight stake secretaries, one stake treasurer, twenty-nine stake board members, four ward presidents, three ward secretaries, one ward chorister, one religion class supervisor, two Relief Society teachers, and six members. Among them were: one great grandmother, sixteen grandmothers, forty-three mothers, and ten unmarried members. There were sixteen between the age of twenty and thirty;  sixteen between thirty and forty;  twenty between forty and fifty;  thirteen between fifty and sixty, and three over sixty years of age. The course in charities and relief was given under the supervision of the Social Advisory Committee of the Church. 
 It was under the direct charge of the General Board of Relief Society;  with Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary of the Relief Society, and Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, second counsellor in the Utah stake Relief Society, and secretary of the Community Welfare Department of the Utah stake Relief Society, acting as class teachers. The course in sociology was given by Professor John C. Swenson, of the Brigham Young University. Mrs. Inez Knight Allen, president of Utah stake Relief Society, gave lectures and discussed practical relief methods that have been worked out in her stake. The object of the course was to increase the general efficiency of family work in the Relief Society with a special view of broadening and improving the charity work of this great organization. The course consisted of: Sociology, in which the fundamentals of family life were discussed, Professor Swenson;  Brief History of Charity Work;  Modern Methods of Family Rehabilitation, including a study of Normal Family Life, the Unstable Family, and definite methods of approach and procedure in family work;  a seminar, in which specific family problems were discussed;  literature of family social work in which the regularly required reading was reported and discussed;  special lecture course, including subjects related to family and community life, and the best means of overcoming existing social difficulties. These lectures were given by prominent lecturers and specialists. Visits to several institutions in the state were made by the entire class, for the purpose of studying problems of feeble mindedness, insanity, delinquency, dependency, and infirmity, with their causes and treatment. At each of these institutions lectures were given, as follows: State Industrial School, Ogden, Supt. E. S. Hinckley;  State Mental Hospital, Provo, Dr. Hyde, superintendent;  Community Clinic, Salt Lake City, Mrs. Avery;  Neighborhood House, Salt Lake City, Miss Ellen Taylor;  Salt Lake County Infirmary and Hospital, Supt. Orson Allen. A special feature of this course was the series of lectures by Edward T. Devine, of New York, who is one of the greatest American authorities on social service work. His book, "Normal Life," had been a part of the required reading, and his visit to the class room gave the personal touch that emphasized and vitalized its discussions. Toward the close of the term, part of a day was set aside for special chapel exercises, when the general authorities of the Church, including the members of all of the gen