Teach Virtue and Modesty President Joseph Fielding Smith Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 3, 1962] sight to think that you good sisters have come from all parts of the world to attend this conference. I congratulate you for your faith and your integrity and | want to say to you, we pray for you constantly. You are doing a wonderful work, and the Prophet certainly was inspired by the spirit of the Lord to have such an organization as the Relief Society given to the Church. You have a great work to perform. We remember you in Our prayers, we want you to know that the work that you are performing is fully appreciated by the brethren of the Authorities of the Church. Now, I want to endorse all that has been said and done, and I am very grateful that Brother Petersen had the inspiration to speak as he did on a topic that is most timely. I know of nothing that is more important today than the theme which he presented to us. Now, there are a great many good, honest people in the world, but that does not change the fact that we are living in a wicked world, a fallen world. In fact, it has always been fallen since Adam and Eve were driven out of the garden of Eden. But that does not mean that there have not been good people down through the ages, at least most of the time. Your work is just as imures is certainly a wonderful 4 portant as any other work in the Church. I want you to know that your brethren appreciate it. I want to say a few words, too, along the line that was mentioned by Elder Petersen. Our day was seen in the days of Isaiah. The Lord opened the eyes of Isaiah. He saw the gathering of the Latter-day Saints to these valleys of the mountains and spoke about it and about the blessings of the Lord that would attend them. But he also saw in that great vision some of the pitfalls and the difficulties and the transgressions that would befall the Latter-day Saints, along with other people, and he has spoken of it. When Isaiah spoke of Zion, he did not mean the world, and when he spoke of the daughters of Zion, he meant the daughters of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am going to read you a few verses, "As for my people, children are their oppressors, and women tule over them. O my people, they which lead thee cause thee to ert, and destroy the way of thy paths. The Lord standeth up to plead, and standeth to judge the people. The Lord will enter into judgment with the ancients of his people, and the princes thereof: for ye have eaten up the vineyard; the spoil of the poor is in your houses" (Isaiah — 3:12-14). HEN he goes on to talk about Zion. Who is Zion? We, the Latter-day Saints. Moreover the Lord said: Because the daughters of Zion are haughty, and walk with stretched forth necks and wanton eyes, walking and mincing as they go, and making a tinkling with their feet: Therefore the Lord will smite with a scab the crown of the head of the daughters of Zion, and the Lord will discover their secret parts. In that day the Lord will take away the bravery of their tinkling ornaments about their feet, and their cauls, and their round tires like the moon. The chains, and the bracelets, and the mufflers, The bonnets, and the ornaments of the legs, and the headbands, and the tablets, and the earrings. 'The rings, and nose jewels.. (Isaiah 3:16-21). We haven't got quite to that point yet, have we? The changeable suits of apparel, and the mantles, and the wimples, and the crisping pins, The glasses, and the fine linen, and the hoods, and the vails. And it shall come to pass, that instead of sweet smell there shall be stink; and instead of a girdle a rent; and instead of well set hair baldness; and instead of a stomacher a girding of sackcloth; and burning instead of beauty (Isaiah 3:22-24). That is as far as I need to read. Now, you good mothers, you should teach your children virtue, chastity, and they should be taught from their early childhood. And they should be made aware of the pitfalls and the dangers that are so prevalent throughout the world. Now, we are living in a wicked day. When you read your newspapers you can discover that, and they give us but a small fraction of what goes on. Wickedness prevails. One of my good brethren who had the right to speak some years ago said, "Chastity TEACH VIRTUE AND MODESTY is dead." virtue. The tendency of the times is towards evil. I deplore, and I know my brethren do, the tendency in the world which Latter-day Saints imitate and copy, as far as the women are concerned, at least in their dress. When I was a young man going to school the girls wore dresses that came down to their ankles. 'They were modest. They don't do that now. I went out occasionally in my youth to Saltair to bathe, when the water was up under the pavilion. I had a bathing suit that covered my body to my ankles, so did the men, and so the women. I remember when a young lady came in to go in bathing. She passed one of the men in charge, and he stopped her. He said, "You can't go in dressed like that." Well, she had a dress on that covered her body down below her knees, but he said, "You have got to get stockings on. I hope that isn't true of A woman came into my office one day, she might be here in this group for all I know, and showed me a picture that she had taken, somewhere near the beginning of the century, of a group bathing at Saltair. I tried to get it from her and she would not let me have it. "No," she said, "I am going to keep this, I am in this picture." But every bather was covered — men and women alike. 'That's why I wanted to get it, to see it, to show it. Now they go in bathing together, men and women at the resorts, with very scanty clothing on. Some of our good, clean, virtuous daughters vie to become Miss America or Miss Utah or California or some other State, and they have to be put on exhibition like prize cattle and go through all kinds of stunts, and dress so they have to show their bodies. Pardon me for talking plainly. I think it is disgraceful that we have reached that point in our lives where, as one of my good brethren said several years ago, "Virtue, modesty are dead." Now we need reformation. You mothers in your homes, are you in the habit of letting your little children run around scantily clothed because it is warm weather, practically naked or nearly so? And they grow up that way, that is, thinking that there is nothing wrong in exposing their bodies. What did the Lord give Adam and Eve garments for? 'To clothe themselves, and the Lord does not like nakedness. And I think the Latter-day Saints should not follow the fashions and the immodesty of the world. We are the people of the Lord. He expects us to live clean, virtuous lives, to keep our thoughts clean and minds pure and faithful in the observance of all his other commandments. Why should we follow the world, why can we not be modest, why can't we do the things the Lord would have us do? The Lord bless you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.