Anne R. Gledhill Appointed to the General Board Vesta P. Crawford Associate Editor, The id ANNE ROBINSON GLEDHILL ANNE ROBINSON GLEDHILL was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, November 14, 1962. She has accepted this call with the same devotion to service that has marked her many other responsibilities in the auxiliaries of the Church. She was born in Beaver, Utah, the eighth child of ten children born to Frank Bernard Robinson and Retta Baldwin Robinson. She lived in Beaver until 1928, when her family moved to Los Angeles, California. She was married to Clifford Ovi Gledhill in the Salt Lake Temple, April 3, 1939. The young couple then moved to Susanville, California, where their three children were born. Susan, the eldest daughter, is living in Provo, where her husband Verl Thoman Doman is a 18 student at Brigham Young University. 'They have a son Kevin, four months old. Bette and Rhett are twins, aged twenty. Bette is attending Brigham Young University, and Rhett is on a mission in Hawaii. The family moved from Susanville to Los Angeles in 1945, and to Salt Lake City in 1952. Sister Gledhill has recently returned from presiding over the Relief Societies in the Great Lakes Mission, where her husband was mission president. In her Relief Society work in the mission, Sister Gledhill was successful in organizing many new Societies and in spreading and implementing the Relief Society message, as well as vigorously directing the program. Sister Gledhill began her Church work in young womanhood and has had much executive experience in all the auxiliaries open to women. She has seryed in both stake and ward capacities and is a competent executive and an inspirational teacher. She has been a counselor in ward Relief Societies and is well acquainted with all the departments | of the Relief Society program. To her new position, Anne Gledhill brings experience, devotion, and a marked ability for leadership. Her lovable personality, the ease with which she makes friends, her diligence and enthusiasm will make her a valued and beloved member of the General Board and will endear her to the women of the Church.