Belva Barlow Appointed to the General Board Oscar W. McConkie, Jr. First Counselor, University Stake Presidency BELVA BARLOW ELVA Barlow comes to the General Board of the Relief Society with unusual qualifcations. Her appointment came the 14th day of November, 1962. Sister Barlow was my Relief Society president in the University Fourth Ward. To a bishop, this statement is made with profound gratitude and a sense of reverence born of the compassion that this position has come to mean. Belva Barlow was foreordained to her calling. Born to Israel and A. Belva Welling Barlow in East Mill Creek, Utah, such Church service came naturally to the maternal great-granddaughter of the one selected by the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo to serve as the first treasurer of the Relief Society in this dispensation, Elvira A. Cowles. Sister Barlow is prepared for her calling scholastically, professionally, and in character. Before her graduation with honors from the University of Utah, she was elected to five honorary and service organizations. As debate manager she participated in national debate tournaments throughout the United States. Her professional experience includes schoolteaching; employment in Senator Arthur V. Watkin's office in the Nation's Capital; and present work for the world-renowned scientist and Dean of the University of Utah Graduate School, Dr. Henry Eyring. Her character was forged in the fires of Church activities: stake missionary in Washington, D. C.; ward YWMIA president; ward Relief Society president; First Counselor in the 'University Stake Relief Society. By virtue of proper preparation and past performance, the General Board of the Relief Society may expect significant contributions from Sister Barlow. She brings the vibrance of youth to her calling. Her service as counselor in the presidency of the University Stake Relief Society, with its nine ward organizations composed exclusively of college girls, gives voice in the high councils to the freshest innovation and youngest Relief Societies in the Church. Her wholehearted acceptance of this latest call brings energizing effect to the oldest of all auxiliaries in the kingdom of God.