Winning Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest The Tender Kiss Edith Larson T first Nancy could find no A flaw in John's announcement of his decision. He had looked her in the eyes, smiled naturally, and then, when she threw her arms around his neck and kissed him with all the relief and joy of her sudden release from worry, he had returned her kiss tenderly, Furthermore, he had made the announcement in a normal manner as Soon as he came home from the office. He had come night through to the kitchen and said, "Hi, Nance. Don't bother to pack. I've told J. C. We're staying here." In spite of her flare of joy, Nancy had questioned him thoroughly. She knew she couldn't bear it if, in later years, John should feel that her love and need for her 'family had stood in the way of his career, "But I'm not giving up all Opportunity for advancement," John had reassured her. "J. C. Told me this morming that if [| honestly wasn't interested in the Hawaiian opening, there would be a similar one for me here within a year. What's a year in a lifetime?" And then he had given her the tender kiss and gone out to play wth Terry and the twins in the sandpile. But now, the next morning, as she kneaded the dough for the bread John so dearly loved, she could no longer push back the questions she didn't want to ask. Why, in the midst of her own happiness, should she have nagging doubts of John's? What difference did it make whether he became Stoughton Brothers' youngest department head in Hawaii or in Idaho? The Promotion would further his career equally well either place. Surely J. C. Realized there was no difference. Why had he insisted on holding the Hawaiian job open another week instead of accepting John's decision as final? John was right A short wait wouldn't hurt him — he was only thirty now. And the benefits of staying here were legion. There was this house, a wedding gift from her folks. It had been built just the way she wanted it. When the Hawaiian job had seemed like an opportunity not to be missed, John himself had hesitated over giving up the house. But even more important, there was her family. Her life, except for the four years at college, had been spent in this valley, which had been the family seat since pioneer days. She was the youngest — ten years the youngest — of eight' children, only one of whom had left the valley permanently. By rnghts, she should be spoiled, but John said she wasn't, in spite of the nice little things her family were always doing for her — like her sister Linda taking Terry and the twins off her hands this morning so she could wash and bake without their constant interruptions. Of course Linda thought she was packing, too. Why hadn't she told Linda of John's new decision? As usual her sister had come in like a whirlwind and gone the same way; but, if Nancy had shouted her good news, Linda would have stopped — at least long enough to hug and kiss her. ANCY deftly shaped the dough into loaves and laid each in its place in the neat row of shining bread tins. "Why am I baking bread in the hottest month of the summer?" she wondered. She always did in winter, but—was doing 28 it now some sort of penance, an admission of guilt? But John had made his: own decision. She hadn't influenced it. Perhaps she had been a wee bit slow about starting to pack. Just the thought of moving anywhere out of range of her wonderful family curled her heart into a tight ball. After her first dismay, though, she had tried not to show John how deeply she dreaded the prospective break. But of course he had known. He loved the family, too—had, in fact, adopted them in place of the one he had never known. But still, her people couldn't hold the place in his life they held in hers. She could scarcely imagine a social gathering not tied in with the family. Even her Church life was built around them, though Dad was no longer the bishop. She could hardly imagine trying to rear the three little ones she already had and having another baby six months from now without the help so many aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews, and grandparents gladly furnished. But she had intended to go to Hawaii as a good wife should — go with fear in her heart, but no protest on her lips. And she would have done it, too—she knew she would have — if John hadn't turned the offer down himself. Then why couldn't she be whole-heartedly glad the way she wanted to be? Why wasn't she singing as she reloaded the washer with colored clothes? Why couldn't she forget how thrilled John had been at the Hawaiian prospect before he began to count the cost? Last night, he had seemed to be satisfied; why couldn't she be? Nancy hung the white clothes on the line instead of running them through the drier. It was a beautiful day to bleach them. Just as she was ready to go after the children, Linda called to say that for once the twins had both fallen asleep over their lunch, so why not leave all three at least until the twins woke up? Then she hung up without giving Nancy a chance to reply. So Nancy toasted herself a_tomato and lettuce sandwich and began sorting and folding clothes. By the time the bread was ready to come out of the oven, she had part of the ironing done and ready to put away, but she was no nearer an answer to the question that plagued her. She would just run through the back lot to the Ellsworths with a fresh loaf of bread. Perhaps talking to someone besides herself would settle her mind. Uncle Gideon and Aunt Martha Ellsworth were not blood relations; they were the last of their family. Both were too crippled with ar- - thritis to get around very much; but, although they rocked their days away — outdoors when it was sunny, by the big window when the weather was unfavorable — there was no more cheerful pair to visit in the whole vallev. HEY greeted Nancy and the bread with delight, protesting that she shouldn't have bothered when she had so much to do getting ready for the trip to Hawaii. Nancv tried to break in with the truth, but trying to stop the flow of talk from Uncle Gideon and Aunt Martha THE TENDER KISS was fruitless. 'They constantly interrupted each other, but no third party stood a chance. "Gideon talks of nothing nowadays except your Hawaiian adventure,' Aunt Martha said, accenting her words to the tempo of her rocking. "You'd think it was." "My own trip," interrupted Uncle Gideon. "It sure puts me in mind of the time Martha and I came across the plains. There was a train most of the way then, ett." "They weren't like these highpowered trains they have today," went on Aunt Martha. "Smoke and grit and red-plush seats and just barely crawling over the mountains. Like as not, you'll take a jet aeroplane where you're going and maybe you won't." "Think of it as an adventure at all. But that's what it is. Don't make a particle of difference if it be a space age or the turn of the century." "When a man and wife make up their minds to strike out on their own and build a new life for themselves and their family, it's an adventure. Yessiree. It's an adventure that takes the good old-fashioned kind of." "Git-up-and-git. Spunk you might call it. Too many young people nowadays don't have spunk any more. 'They're too ready to sit around on their precious security. They don't even know that adventure is calling them!" "Not that you're going to have things rough like we did,' Aunt Martha hastened to assure Nancy. "Hawaii, I hear, is quite civilized and easy living. But it does take courage." "Spunk, I mean, and spunk I'm going to call it. It does take spunk to pull up stakes in a nice, friendly place like the valley, and leaving kith and kin behind, follow where your husband leads. ['m_ right proud to know you, young Nancy," and Uncle Gideon patted Nancy's knee with his gnarled old hand. "And so be I," added Aunt Martha. "We'll miss you sore — you've been the best of neighbors for all you're so young and pretty. Bringing fresh bread over when you know your Uncle Gideon dotes on it, and you so busy and all! Bless your sweet little heart!' And the tears began to trickle down Aunt Martha's withered cheeks. ANCY guiltily made her escape without having summoned up enough "spunk" to tell her good news. So far she had told no one of the change of plans. Why not? Last night it had been late before she found time, but then, why hadn't she at least called her mother? Mom was dreading her going and would have been so relieved. "Tl go and tell Mom right now," Nancy decided as she hurried back across the lot. "I know she's been worrying." Stopping in the house only long enough to pick up her purse with her driver's license in it, she skillfully backed the station wagon down the drive and headed for the familiar old house at the head of the valley. It was only a mile away, but every turn of the wheels seemed to sing a new word — "adventure, adventure, adventure." Curious that 30 to this crippled old couple, the uprooting she had so dreaded should seem an adventure! Was that the way they had felt when they had left all they held dear behind and struck out for the West on their own? For once, there was no car in the long drive that curved around the side of her parents' stately old home. Nancy was glad, for it meant her mother would be alone. Nancy found her in the summer kitchen, washing cucumbers for pickling, working with the quick, sure motions her children knew so well. Her offer to help having been refused, Nancy perched on a stool and wondered how to broach her subject. Mom helped by asking, "Have you and John decided what to do about the house yet?" "We won't have to do anything. We aren't going to Hawaii. John has been promised a similar opening right here if he waits just a little while." Mom stopped long enough to raise a startled face to stare fleetingly at Nancy. 'Then her vegetable brush went back into motion. "T must admit I'm glad," she said simply. "Glad!" exclaimed Nancy. "I'm so thrilled I could cry. It's a re prieve from a fate worse than death — whatever that means." Mom flashed her youngest an amused glance and bent back to her work. "Oh, I doubt if going to _ Hawaii would really have hurt you, Nancy, but — I'm afraid we didn't rear you right to be going off adventuring on your own." SVATHAT do you mean, you didn't rear me right?" Nancy demanded. "No girl ever had a nicer rearing than I did. I loved every minute of it." Mom sighed. "I know. There should have been lots of minutes you hated, lots of minutes in which you were learning to stand on your own feet, fighting your own battles; but somehow—you were such a cute little trick and so much younger and so lovable — somehow your father and I never saw our way to interfering when your older brothers and sisters smoothed the way for you. Which one has the babies today?" "Linda," Nancy answered obediently, but her thoughts were whizrling. What did Mom mean? She had never talked like this before! "Yes, it would be Linda. She added your three to her four at a busy time of the year so you could do what?" "The washing and bake bread. But, Mom, you know perfectly well Pll baby sit for her in return. I always do." "Yes — when your work's done up so you can give all your time to it. Or when one of Sue's girls is visiting you so she can amuse the children." 'Then, as she looked up and saw Nancy's stricken face, she added gently, "I'm not saying this to hurt you, child. But ever since John proposed taking you off on your own, I've been thinking how poorly we who love you so much have prepared you for the responsibilities of being a wife and mother." "But, Mom, I don't ask anyone to help me. They just do!" ' THE TENDER KISS "T know. You're such a dear, it's a pleasure to help you — a selfish pleasure in which we, your doting family, have overindulged. And now I'm wondering," here the busy hands were stilled and Mom looked earnestly at her daughter, "if your being such a dear didn't influence John's decision. I thought he was very enthusiastic over the Hawaiian job. Are you sure he wants to stay?" "Of course I'm sure. It's the promotion that counts — not the place." "Tm glad." Mom bent again to her task. "It's worried me, thinking of you having another baby so soon, way off there by yourself, with Terry scarcely out of diapers and the twins still a year out of kindergarten. Of course, someone of us would have flown out and given you a hand when your time came, but still." Nancy laughed shakily. "And here you were just talking about making me a responsible mother." She jumped off the stool. "I mustn't stick around chatting. I just came to tell you the news. I could have phoned, but I wanted to see your face — I guess. 'Bye now. I have to pick up the children." Somehow, she made it to the car, drove around the circle and up the road until she was out of sight of the house. Then she pulled over on the shoulder and shut off the ignition with trembling fingers. O that was it! No one thought she was capable of taking care of her own family! And even worse — she hadn't thought so either! She had shrunk from the prospect of having to try. Was she really such a poor excuse for a wife and mother? Why hadn't she thrilled with the prospect of adventure as Uncle Gideon and Aunt Martha had done? Could it be that she was so soft and dependent that adventure had no appeal for her? How did her home and her management of it differ from Linda's or Sue's — or for that matter, from that of any of her brothers' wives? Scene after scene flashed through Nancy's mind: Sue's well-ordered household, Tom's, David's, Jerry's. But their children were all older. Only Linda, who had married late, had young ones like Nancy's. Who helped Linda? She rarely seemed to need any help. No matter whom Nancy thought of, she found nothing to compare with the constant assistance her own household seemed to require — or at least receive — from the family. "But I could do it myself — if I had to!" she cried, silently beating her fists on the steering wheel. "It wasnt the ease they put into my life that made me want to stay here. I know it wasn't. I love my family. I'd die in a strange place—alone."' Alone! How could she even think the word alone when John would be with her! "Forsaking all others" — that was what real marriage meant, wasn't it? Did she and John have a real marriage — the kind that had its roots in mutual understanding and trust? They had a home and children — but did they have a marriage? Or had John done the very thing she had denied? Had he let his decision be influenced by — Nancy winced at her own blunt thoughts — her dependence on her family? He had seemed satisfied to stay. If he was trying to protect her, he would never let on to her. So how could she know the truth? She went over last night's announcement again. Why had she felt from the first there was some flaw in it? He had sounded so convincing — just like Dad explaining how things had to be — and then he had given her a tender kiss.... That kiss! It was the kiss a father gives a child. It wasn't a bit like the kiss John had given her when he told her about the Hawallan opening a month ago! Nancy's head dropped forward onto the steering wheel, and for a few moments she wept unashamedly for the happy, unconcerned child she would be leaving here beside the road. Then she dried her eyes, powdered her nose, and drove decisively on to Linda's to pick up her children, her mind already absorbed with the myriad problems of packing. Note: For a biographical sketch of Edith Larson, see page 25.