Woman's Sphere} R. VIRGINIA CUTLER of Brigham Young University, and author of this year's Relief Society work meeting discussions, was one of two American delegates who attended the World Forum of Women in Brussels, Belgium, in November. She was invited to the Forum by the president of the International Assembly of Women. Dr. Cutler presented a paper on the role of the school as an aid to bring about better understanding among the nations. (GERALDYN M. (JERRY) COBB, thirty-one, who has been flying since she was twelve, holds four world's records in aeronautics, and is a consultant to NASA. She is among the thirteen present women candidates for astronaut. ERALDINE STUTZ, _ thirtyeight years old, former editor of Glamour magazine, became president of New York's Henri Bendel, Inc., fashion emporium, five years ago. At the time it was in rather difficult financial straits. It is now solidly in the black. Ramona W. Cannon Ly gs a e REPRESENTATIVE KAT HRYN E. GRANAHAN, Democrat of Pennsylvania, has been chosen by President John F. Kennedy as Treasurer of the United States. Upon the death of her husband, Representative William T'. Granahan, in 1956, Mrs. Granahan was appointed to complete his term. She was re-elected to the last two terms of Congress. Mrs. Granahan succeeds Mrs. Elizabeth Smith Gatov as 'Treasurer. ISS RADIE BRITAIN, a native Texan now living in Hollywood, is the distinguished young American composer of "Southern Symphony," "Light," and "Bondage." For "Heroic Poem" she won the Hollywood Bowl International Prize and, in 1945, became the first | woman to receive the Juilliard Publication Award. Recently she won first prize in a world-wide contest for women composers with "Nizan, The Third Day," for women's chorus, piano, and string orchestra. Kate Hammond wrote the religious text. The subject refers to Christ's third day in the tomb. EDITORIAL (THE is the official publication of the women of the Church, published and directed by the General Board of Relief Society. It is a unique publication, grateful and proud that it is a different Magazine, that it makes no claim to be like any other publication. Its purpose has not changed over the years, although its contents and make-up have many times been adjusted to meet the varying needs of the times and the facilities available for enhancing the attractiveness of the publication. How could The be a facsimile of any other publication — why should anyone desire that it should be so? The Magazine represents Relief Society, both in its historic aspects and in its present greatly enlarged scope and distribution. Just as Relief Society is a unique organization — organized, and in its early days, directed by the Prophet Joseph Smith — so the Magazine is unique, keeping always the same purpose, but being a voice to reach the tens of thousands who now constitute the worldwide sisterhood.. The Magazine links the sister- 34 hood in verisimilitude of purpose and program — assisting in the fields of inspiration, education, and service. The Magazine is the voice that links the past with the everexpanding present. It is as a tree remembering the depth and strength of its roots, yet rejoicing in the number of its branches and the shining glory of its leaves. It is interesting to realize that the Magazine — the messenger — the far-reaching voice — enters the homes of sisters in many lands. It is a cause for much gratitude to know that women of the palms in the far Pacific islands, women of the New Zealand hamlets, women of the Australian cities and towns, women of the historic English villages and towered cities — members wherever there is an understanding of English, are joined together in purpose by the Magazine. Transcending the borders and barriers of nations and of continents, the Magazine carries far and wide a uniting voice. The Magazine, moreover, speaks to women in various phases of their lives. To the young sister, newly 'married, it brings a broad and Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Mildred B. Eyring Wealtha S. Mendenhall Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Charlotte A. Larsen Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Cannon Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva Barlow Alberta H. Christensen Afton W. Hunt beautiful understanding of homemaking — both in its high ideals, and in the details of home maintenance and beautification. It inspires the new homemaker to affiliate with Relief Society and become a part of group accomplishment and group spiritual values. 'To the young mother, the Magazine brings the eternal message of sacred family unity, the direction of the habits and abilities and aspirations of children. The woman in the middle years finds her horizons widened, her opportunities increased, by the message of the Magazine. And so it is into the later years, when life becomes enriched by all that has passed, and the ever-present challenge of so much that can be done, so much that can be shared and enjoyed in the later years. So the Magazine binds together the years of a woman's life — and the lives of all women privileged to hear the voice of the sisterhood. The Magazine is not for one land alone, nor for a limited time in any woman's life. It is for many lands and many sisters, for the length of their lives. So it is also for women in many phases of economic condiLaPriel S. Bunker Zola J]. McGhie tions and educational advantages. How wide and beautiful it is for a woman, through the pages of the Magazine, to be inspired to make the most of her means and of herself — what a challenge it is to know that the lesson program, as well as the special articles and _ departments, are planned for all women, whether they are beginners in theology, in homemaking, in literature, or social science — or whether they are in that never-ending process of being added upon. And to the woman who cannot attend the meetings regularly, because of location or employment or illness — the Magazine is indeed the voice of Relief Society — keeping and sustaining these women in their places, giving them an ample portion of inspiration, comfort, knowledge, culture, and beauty. The belongs to every member of Relief Society — a unique messenger — unlike any other magazine available anywhere — our Magazine, serving the purposes and ideals of the sisterhood, representing the women of the Church and speaking for them. V. P. C. 35 f ns trom the F y xm C x D Th Te) T is with deep regret that the Relief Society General Board announces the resignation of Annie M. Ellsworth as a member of the General Board, effective October 17, 1962. Sister Ellsworth was appointed to the General Board on April 13, 1955. She came to this responsibility with extensive experience in Relief Society work, having served in various capacities in ward and stake organizations and as Relief Society President of the Central States Mission. During her years on the Board, Sister Ellsworth has conscientiously and devotedly used her many creative talents and abilities in furthering the work of Relief Society. She has accepted assignments whole-heartedly and has filled them capably and efficiently. Her service on the Board has been especially with the lessons and conference and convention committees. She has also ably represented the General Board as a member of the Utah State Nutrition Council. | Sister Ellsworth's sweet, humble spirit and loving nature have endeared her to her associates, and she will be greatly missed by them and by the many Relief Society sisters throughout the Church who have had the privilege of knowing her. The Relief Society General Board members extend to her their love and best wishes and appreciation for her great contribution to Relief Society. " i | f AMs~qq 4 ' O 2 | y ms = as fi e " Bouna v iUumesS ¢ lY6, Magazines } Wy 4 WYyoL bal RELIEF Society officers and members who wish to have their 1962 issues of The bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 31 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. (See advertisement in this issue of the Magazine.) 'The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.75, leather $4.20, including the index. A limited number of the 1962 Magazines are available at the offices of the General Board of Relief. Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 11, Utah, for $2 for twelve issues. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1962 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. WHO FINDS ENCHANTMENT? | displays its enchantment only for those who keep a light in their eyes and hope in their hearts. Life's magic is only for those who face the winds — even the furies — with courage. — Nancy M. Armstrong 36 CHAPTER 1 Kit Linford itself to the street outside. It was old, dignified, well used. Irene Spencer paused just inside the carved oak door and glanced about her. She stood in an entrance foyer that was larger than many rooms she had seen. Beyond it lay the dark abyss of a room. She shivered a little, and pulled her sweater closer about her. "It's awfully gloomy in here, Dick," she said. His voice came from the depths of darkness. "I know. Wait until I open the drapes." The drag of heavy draperies across a thick carpet made a soft, swishing sound, and raised a dust that filled the close air. Feeble streams of light invaded the room, but the gentle spring sunshine was filtered by dusty glass and wide winA T first glance the house related dow frames until it did little more than break the shadows into shapeless, sheet-covered mounds. Dick moved down to the other end of the long room, pulling sheets off furniture as he walked. Irene stood alone in the louvered archway that separated the foyer and the parlor and surveyed the expanse of room before her. The drapes sagged with dust, and were a dark wine color. The carpeting was just a dirty shade lighter. The wood | paneling that dominated the walls was dark walnut or mahogany. The gaping mouth of an uncovered fireplace resembled a small black cavern. Invading winds had blown loose soot back down the chimney and laid it wantonly on the rug and tile hearth. Those tiles that had not been given a peppery appearance by a layer of soot revealed xii themselves to be a rusty cocoa color, a hue that nearly lost itself in the black soot, red carpeting, and brown wood. The room was musty, heavy with dust, close with disuse. "Can't you open a window? The air in here is so stale." She pushed her pale gilt hair off her forehead, wondering if the dust had settled on it. "Wait until you see the rest of it,' Dick enthused. "It doesn't look like much now, but it's a grand old house." "Tt must be ancient." "Fifty-five... Maybe sixty years old. They don't build houses like this anymore." "Tm sure they don't," she said flatly. Her sarcasm was lost on Dick, who had gone on into the next room. She became conscious of the cold that permeated the room. The thick walls of the house had _ been thoroughly chilled all winter, and the gentle spring sunshine hadn't yet become warm enough to penetrate them. She considered returning to the car for a coat, but thought better of it when Dick called out to her. "Come on, honey. Dining room." Wispy puffs of dust played about her feet as she crossed the length of the room to catch up with him. He had gone through another archway, and now stood beside the largest dining table Irene had ever seen. It appeared that tall garden urns had been painted gold and then drafted into use as legs to support the tremendous thick slab of This is the 38 polished wood. Dick wiped the dust off the table with one of the sheets he still carried. THE ugly carpet had followed her. Identical drapes hung in folds that were gray with dust. Massive furniture stood like shrouded ghosts in gritty sheets. A chandelier hung in suspended grandeur over all, but even its crystal prisms failed to catch or reflect light, because a heavy cloud of grime covered them. Dick dropped the sheets into a heap at one end of the table. "My mother used to entertain in here," he said. "Dozens of people. This room holds lots of memories." He looked about with satisfaction. Irene didn't speak as she found the grimy pull cords and drew back the drapes. After nearly choking on resultant clouds of dust, she saw that the windows here were in the same condition as the others, too smoky to admit much light. "T'm cold," she spoke petulantly. "Tt is clammy in here," he agreed. "No one has lived here since my mother died. 'That's when Granddad moved out, taking me and Davy with him. It was too big and lonely, without her. We'll all be able to come back here to live, now. I know that's what Granddad would like, and it's what I want, too." Irene stiffened, refusing to recall her enthusiasm when Dick had first mentioned such an arrangement — months before their marriage. An old man and a handicapped boy, she thought. In this mausoleum of a house! Before she could voice any objections, Dick reached up and pulled a sheet off a portrait that hung on the wall. "That's my mother," he said. The painted face was totally unlike what Irene might have expected. She must have been a small woman, and much younger than one would have thought. A tender smile played on the sensitive mouth, and wide-spaced eyes looked down into Irene's own. "She was pretty wonderful," Dick said. "Remember I told you what a hard time she had of it? Always wanted a big family, and had to settle for just the two of us, Davy and me. There're twenty years between us, too. Dad died a month or so before Davy was born. He had been sick for years. Davy wasn't healthy either. Mother nursed him through some bad times. She wasn't very strong, and it finally wore her down. She died when Davy was three." "And you went to South Africa." "Somebody had to recoup the family fortunes. Dad's prolonged illness and then Davy's on top of it, bled us pretty dry. All we managed to hang onto was this house, after having been one of the leading families in Spencerside. Mother managed to keep me in school, although [Il probably never know what sacrifices it entailed for her and Granddad. When I was fresh out of school the Government offered me the position in Africa. I needed the kind of money they offered." He grinned at her. "At the time it seemed like the end of the world. Now I'm glad I went. You were there." "What happened to Davy?" Irene KEEP MY OWN asked. 'Was it those illnesses during his babyhood that caused him to be mute?" ICK had always been reticent about discussing Davy's handicap. He hesitated before he replied. "No. It wasn't that. He had learned to talk as well as any threeyear-old when Mother died. It's hard to explain what we all went through then, but Davy most of all. We knew what had happened. We could accept it. He was too little. He couldn't understand. To him, she had just deserted him. When we were getting ready to go to the funeral... He stayed home with Aunt Ella... He somehow got the idea that we were going to get her and bring her home. When we came back without her, he started to cry. Cried for hours. We thought everything would be all nght then. Only it didn't work out that way. It wasn't long before we realized he had stopped speaking. He hasn't uttered a word, since." Her heart twisted with pity. "How terrible for you," she whispered. "Terrible for all of us, but mostly for Davy." A nerve was jerking spasmodically at Dick's temple. Irene touched it tenderly, seeking to soothe it away. "Ym sorry. I didn't completely understand. You never wanted to talk about it." "No one really understands," he said as he took her hand. "How can any adult comprehend the disillusionment and pain and sorrow of a three-year-old child?" He shook his head to drive the memories | away. "The kitchen's in here. Come on." An ornately decorated black stove stood in one corner of the kitchen like a reigning goblin. Its tall black chimney stretched into the shadowy caves of the ceiling far above. 'Iwo dirty windows made little more than narrow slits in black-streaked, dark green walls. Expanses of green cupboards reached an almost unbelievable height. A low old sink stood on carved legs in another corner, beyond a width of green counter top. The floor was a mass of dirty little tiles. Irene scraped some of the accumulated soil off them with the tip of her shoe. They were dark green, too. "We'll have to do some fixing up in here," Dick said lamely. "I had forgotten how out-of-date things "That's a prime understatement," she said bitterly, her tenderness of a moment ago forgotten. She felt him withdrawing from her. Oh, Dick, forgive me. Married only seven months and already it appears I'm developing into a shrew! I don't want to do that. Just give me a little time. Time to adjust to leaving my home, this impossible house Davy. His voice was tired. "I'm sorry you're disappointed. Maybe I painted a rosier picture than I intended. This house is my home. I hoped you could see the gracious living it offers, under the dust and neglect of these past few years." "You admitted yourself it's too out-of-date. I am anxious to make a home for you, but there are limitations to what I can do " How 40 can I tell you I'm frightened at the prospect of living here with your grandfather and your brother? I don't know anything about handicapped children. I'm afraid to even attempt to rear Davy. What if I failed in some way? Oh, Dick, I knew all these things before we were married, and I accepted them all without question. I was so in love! Can anyone, particularly a girl in love, visualize such things? I didn't see a day past that beautiful ceremony in the London temple and the honeymoon that followed. Now the magnitude of it all frightens me. I am such a coward. This house and everything that goes with it are just overwhelming! \ E can't live in it as it ls now," he said quietly, running a thin hand through his prematurely silver-touched hair. "I can see that. I had hoped to set up my studio in the solarium... Sort of an office... Well, modern plumbing and appliances will make all the difference in the world." "Didn't you hear one word I said?" "T heard you, but we have to be practical. If it won't be too much of a hardship on you, I want to try to live here. I would like to rear our baby here, where I was reared. You have judged the house too quickly, anyway. You haven't seen enough of it. Just starting out in business as I am, I have to think of expenses. It would help a lot to have a place here where I. Could work until I'm established. The money I earned in South Africa won't last forever. It's time we got down to the business of living nor- mal lives, Irene. We've been married seven months. That's a pretty long honeymoon. Besides, you knew about this house... And everything else... A year ago." She couldn't deny that. He hadn't hidden anything from her. 'They had discussed it many times. She had always agreed before. It was hard to veto those prior arrangements now. He left her while he went to explore the rest of the house. Irene stood shivering alone in the kitchen, thinking of the years that Dick's family had lived here. Dick's father, Dick, and Davy had all been born in the same room. Dick's parents had both died here. It was no wonder Dick revered the house. The rooms echoed with reverberations from the past that were foreign to Irene. 'The gloom seemed to close in about her, although it couldn't have been much past the noon hour. 'The sun was high outside. She longed for that sunlight as the eerie quiet enveloped her. She drew her breath in deeply through her mouth, and tasted staleness, dead air, dust. She waited for Dick in the deathlike silence of the old mansion that had waited five years for him to come back and resurrect it. Few short hours ago she had felt like the bride she was, then she had stepped across the threshold of this hideous old house. Everything had changed at that moment. Her entire perspective of life had changed. In her own eyes even the view of her marriage had changed. Her complacent happy world had been given a good shaking. She had KEEP MY OWN looked into the past, and tried to look into the future. She hadn't liked what she saw in either place. Unconsciously, she rebelled against it, and wanted no part of it. Irene had been content in South Africa. America was a dream. Zion was perhaps more than a dream, she had even thought of it as the center of her faith, but never as a reality that she might someday experience. Dick had appeared like a Prince Charming from that dream world, a man young in years but already making a deep impression in the field he had chosen. He was a gifted architect. He had gone into architectural engineering at the suggestion of Government officials when he went to work for them. He had traveled like a diplomat, but was a sober young man. Irene sighed, thinking of the Prince Charming she had married. Something moved under the sink. She strained her eyes to see into the Shadows, when without warning a mouse scurried out, across the floor. Irene screamed. Her voice pierced the silence, breaking the dusty quiet. "Dick, Dick!! Oh, Dick, where are you? Dick, Dick, wait for me!" She ran through the door. He, too, had come running at the sound of her voice, and was night outside in the hall. He caught her in his arms. "Irene! What happened? Are you all right?" HE rested in the safe haven of his arms for a moment. 'Then, shamefaced, she looked up into the concerned depths of his gray-green eyes. "I didn't mean to be such a fool. Only, it was so quiet, and dark, and then I saw a mouse. In the kitchen." A convulsive shudder ran through her. He allowed a wave of relief to engulf his frame. "A mouse. You scared me to death. I thought you'd been hurt or something." A deep voice that wavered with age startled them both. "We'll have to get you a cat." "Granddad!" Dick released Irene and hurried to where the old gentleman stood in the kitchen door. They embraced, emotion overpowering their reserve for a minute. Irene remained aside, respecting that emotion and their need to express it. She felt again that foreignness, and wished she could turn about and run far away where she would never have to meet and know this man who held prior claim on her husband. Then she saw the child. He was perhaps eight or nine years old. He stood close to Dick's grandfather, and a little behind him in the shadows. He looked like any other boy his age, at first glance. His blond hair was tousled, and he wore blue jeans with a_ brightly striped shirt. Irene smiled in greeting, and in so doing looked directly into his eyes. She almost gasped aloud. She retreated within herself in horror. Davy was looking at her. He didn't smile in return. In the blue depths of black-fringed eyes that met hers, she read nothing. Emptiness. A blank. There should have been something to read in those eyes! But Davy's eyes were as void as his lips. The child had no expression whatever on his face. (To be continued )