		SALT LAKE STAKE.
   	Minutes of the quarterly conference of
the Relief Society of the Salt Lake Stake of
Zion held in the Assembly Hall, Saturday,
September 3, 1898. Present on the stand
were President M. Isabella Horne and her
counselors, Annie T. Hyde and Clara C.
Cannon; Mrs. B. W. Smith, of the General
Board; Mrs. M. W. Wilcox and Mrs. L. D.
Alder of Stake Board; Mrs. Mary A. Freeze,
Stake president of the Y. L. M. I. A.; Mrs.
E. J. Stevenson and Mrs. E. L. Webb.
	Opened by singing “When first the
glorious light of truth.” Prayer by Sister
E. L. Webb. Continued by singing
“Praise to the man who communed with
Jehovah.” Roll call showing a fair repre-
sentation of both city and county wards.
Minutes of morning session of last confer-
ence read and accepted, also the quarterly
report of the Salt Lake Stake and the
treasurer’s report. The resignation of Sis-
ter Margaret Y. Taylor as Stake secretary
was read and accepted.
	President Horne stated that it was with
many regrets that she accepted the resigna-
tion of Sister Taylor. “We would that she
might rise above her sorrows and continue
to labor with us; we would that our sym-
pathy could help her and aid her in her
great trial, for we are loathe to give her up.
But she has so desired and she must be the
judge. We have one or two sisters in our
mind for this responsible office, and before
next conference we hope to have another
secretary. Sister Alder has kindly consented
to act as secretary today.”
	On motion of Counselor Annie T.Hyde a
vote of thanks was tendered to Sister Mar-
garet Y. Taylor for her efficient labors
while secretary of the Stake.
	President Horne further said: “Sisters in
the whirl of earthly pleasures are we for-
geting God and our religion? Eighteen
branches not reported, and now in this in-
complete form our report must go in to the
Stake authorities. It is unfair to those who
are laboring faithfully to receive no credit
in the report of Relief Society workers.
We must not let earthly cares interfere with
the discharge of our duties. Do not treat
our Society and our officers with indiffer-
ence. At our late excursion to the lake did
not our honored President Woodruff say we
were almost as old as the Church, being
the first organization formed after the
Church was established? And did he not
encourage us in our labors which our God
appointed? Shall we then be slothful ser-
vants? Presidents stir up the Society to
the remembrance of their duties. I with
you sisters feel sad at the loss our Church
has sustained, yet not sad for he has gone
full of years and good works. He was
great and grand yet every one of the people,
like the Prophet Joseph Smith, he was
Brother Woodruff to all. When the proph-
et passed away we were without a leader,
but we soon found that God was at the
head. The Twelve lead the Church and
the power was in their hands then as now.”
	A change was made regarding the presi-
dents of branches making verbal reports at
the conferences, inasmuch as many com-
plained that they could not hear them, in
future the presidents were requested to add
on the blanks anything they wished to
bring before the conference, then it could
be read, for it was very unpleasant to sit in
a meeting and not hear anything. Presi-
dent Horne urged the sisters to heed the

[Column 2]
still small voice that whispers to us and
warns us of danger.
	Counselor B. W. Smith said she felt sad
yet glad for Brother Woodruff, that he had
passed away in peace although away from
the people whom he loved. “I saw him
and talked with him only a few days before
he went away and he said he felt so well,
that his death was a shock to me. I feel
alone now for he and I were the only ones
left who received their endowments in the
the days of Joseph the Prophet. We shall
meet the Prophet Joseph again some day,
and may we not be ashamed, having faith-
fully performed our duties.” Sister Smith
also spoke of her Temple work and ex-
pressed a desire to be faithful to the end of
her days.
	Sister Mary A. Freeze said, “May we re-
member the constant exhortations of Presi-
dent Woodruff especially of late, to get the
Spirit of the Lord and keep it. His mind
was so pure and without guile. Remember
his testimonies to us, how he had been pre-
served by heeding the whisperings of the
still small voice, of the great work he had
accomplished and how many had been
brought into the Church through his in-
strumentality.” Closed by urging the
younger sisters to identify themselves with
the Relief Society, making many excellent
remarks.
	Counselor A. T. Hyde gave instructions
to the sisters saying, “When you attend
conference bring a pencil and paper to note
down anything that would be of benefit for
your Society, then read off the items at
your next meeting. Be sure and get the
blanks for your reports then be careful to
make your averages correctly and evenly
balance up. Then be sure and have your
spiritual meetings as well as your disburse-
ment meetings.” Also spoke of the young-
er sisters belonging to and laboring with
the Relief Society to lighten the labors of
the older sisters.
	Counselor C. C. Cannon said, “I realize
that we have had much valuable instruction
given here today from President Horne and
others. I feel that I have need to be more
diligent in carrying out counsel. To get
the Spirit of the Lord and keep it would be
such a blessing to us.” Made other in-
structive remarks.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 o’clock p. m.
Singing “When shall we all meet again.”
Benediction by Sister M. W. Wilcox.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 p. m.
Opened by singing “Guide us O, Thou
Great Jehovah.” Prayer by Sister E. J.
Stevenson. Continued by singing “Weep,
weep not for me Zion.” Minutes of after-
noon session of last conference read and ac-
cepted.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson was the first speak-
er, earnestly urging the sisters to a renewed
diligence in serving God and keeping His
commandments.
	Sister E. L. Webb followed giving much
motherly counsel and speaking of the words
and testimonies of our loved leader, Presi-
dent Woodruff. Sister Lillie T. Freeze
made an encouraging address to the young
sisters and paid a loving tribute to the
labors of the aged sisters.
	President E. S. Taylor of the General
Board of the Y. L. M. I. A. followed, testi-
fying of the great latter-day work, its ad-
vancement and duties pertaining thereto;
also dwelt at length on the efficacy of
prayer.
	Sister L. D. Alder was next called upon,

[Column 3]
speaking of the humble, beautiful life of
President Woodruff, the magnitude of the
labor he had performed and his simplicity
of manner, though called to such a high
and holy position. Expressed a desire that
the Saints might all be faithful unto death
as he had been.
	Sister Agnes Cutler, president of the East
Jordan Relief Society, testified that the
spirit of the Lord was with us, and spoke of
the prophecy of Sister Eliza R.Snow to her,
that her missisn was to bless the sick and
the sorrowful.
	President Horne said, “Our conference
has been blessed with the spirit of God. We
are engaged in building up the kingdom,
being organized for that purpose. Gave
some valuable instruction to the youth.
“Youth is the time to lay a good strong
foundation to build our after life upon. My
soul rejoices at the gifts and blessings of
the Gospel. The Gospel is so beautiful
and yet so simple. Are we ready to sus-
tain those whom God calls to lead us, or do
we want to steady the Ark? Do we love
our Father in heaven, and are we willing
to serve Him?” President Horne gave in-
structions regarding the storing of grain
now that God had given us another boun-
teous harvest, urging the sisters to pur-
chase the grain while it was cheap, thus
being true to the mission given to us by
President Brigham Young. “Do not think
the war is over because we have a little
lull, verily it is not over.” Urged the Re-
lief Society presidents to visit with the
teachers and get out those who are neglect-
ful of their meetings, that we may have a
revival in Relief Society work. Spoke of
the duties of parents and children and
made other loving remarks to the sisters.
Gave instructions to the secretaries and
treasurers, telling them to meet together
and make out their reports that they might
be accurate. Spoke of the nursing class,
said those who had signed their names to
aid in nursing the sick poor in remuneration
for their education were doing finely. Presi-
dent Horne poured out her heart in bless-
ings upon the sisters, blessing them in their
basket and store and all their belongings
and loved ones.
	Conference was adjourned for three
months. Thus closed the Relief Society
conference. The Spirit of the Lord was
poured out in abundance. A spirit of quiet
and peace pervaded each meeting and testi-
fying to the truth of the words of the speak-
ers. Closed by singing “How firm a
foundation.” Benediction Sister B. W.
Smith.
