			NINA WINSLOW ECKART.


[Column 1]
THE CASTLE MOUNTAINS.
	The day is a clear and a beautiful one,
just as heralded by the early dawn whose
rosy tints are painted on the sombre gray
that envelopes the earth like the folds of a
mantle. Soon we are bestirring ourselves
making preparations for a long drive over
to Huntington in Emery Co. Fresh
breezes come stealing down from the moun-
tains with exhilarating effect as we present-
ly start out on our journey. All are so
cheerful and companionable, earnestly en-
gaging in thoughtful conversation, some-
times bantering about the good roads which

[Column 2]
we momentarily expect to find, although
they seem to ever evade us.
	Up the mountain, through the cañons,
down into the valleys, always failing to
find the best road, but being hopeful we
freely converse, scarcely realizing how long
the way we have to go.
	Here we are on the buckboard slats so
well and aptly named, as we are thorough-
ly bumped in riding over the many undula-
tions still searching for the best roads and
which ever one we take we sigh that we
had not taken the other; but as no break-
downs are in evidence we boldly defy fate
and ride on to victory or death.
	These are the Castle mountains! this
beautiful chain now full in view challenges
our admiration, and one could well believe
that just beyond those towering peaks lies
the famous Robbers Roost, where the rob-
bers securely retire up a a steep precipice,
and at the opening on top one man can
guard the haunts invested by the law
breakers.
	Turning a mountain that rises suddenly
a seeming city rises full in view. The
mountains are appropriately named, for
they indeed resemble castles such as we
read of in the old Fuedal times, whose em-
bankments rise almost perpendicularly, and
we can fancy the moat must be there and
where, the drawbridge being raised, they
are almost inpregnable to all enemies.
Golden shadows of light reflect below them
showing of their grand designs to perfec-
tion, and the traveler imagines that many
magnificent cities lie just over there. None
of their inhabitants are visible, but then
they may have slept so long that they have
forgotten to wake. Ages of silence have
passed, that now is interrupted by the en-
gine bell and the rattling of wheels. In
meditation we gaze on these vast and
wonderful piles of rocks and their solemn
silence guards well their secrets of long ago.
Were they once cities with high domes
pointing heavenward? They appear so
real that one does not readily recall the
wandering thoughts that turning backward
scan the past whose history these mute
sentinels guard so well. Some are high
and rugged, others square with sudden
defiles, others look like turrets where the
bells were wont to wildly ring for joy and
gladness, or to toll for loss or pain in sad-
ness.
	Pretty Huntington so well laid out comes
into view as we descend the mountains.
And such a warm welcome we receive,
and such true hearts we meet, making our
sojourn both pleasant and profitable. But
all friends must part and so we leave these
pleasant associations and return to loving
welcomes in Price, a growing and prosper-
ous town where only a dozen years ago
scarcely a house stood, yet now the water
flows on either side of the streets and rows
of shade trees adorn them. How pleasant
the memory of friends we met here! On a
Sabbath morn when a holy hush falls on
the weary heart we leave for Castle Gate.
parting with one of our companions whom
we miss. There by kindest invitation we
are to spend this lovely day.

[Column 3]
	The iron monster comes screeching
along, waiting a moment while we enter
then away for only a short ride. Twenty
minutes at Helper. What a lovely spot!
After crossing the bleak and dreary summit
it seems like a veritable oasis in a desert,
yet amid the grandest scenery. Lawns
tastefully laid out as green as in the spring- 
time, houses freshly painted with electric
wires attached, a large hotel, everything
in a bustle, escaping steam from the iron
horse, loading and unloading freight, then
onward again to visit at Castle Gate. We
are met at the depot by the Bishop and one
of his counselors also the Bishop’s wife,
all bidding us welcome. A glad touch of
hands and we have been long acquainted.
Here the well known Castle Gate coal is
mined in large quanties by these sturdy
Welsh people who dwell in these clean
looking red houses with white painted
window and door frames, grouped here and
there in the little valley. Early and late
these miners toil taking out the treasures
from these everlasting hills, which have
been hidden from time immemorial.
	Meeting with the Sabbath School we are
charmed with the interest manifested, and
feel proud of the superintendent who so
pleasantly invites us to visit at his home.
Meeting in the afternoon, the Lord’s Sup-
per so reverently administered amid the
glorious strains of melody from the Welsh
choir. Even as the surrounding mountains
soar high in triumph then descend in hu-
mility, so sang this choir in this lovely spot
so far away it seems from the haunts of
men.
	In the evening how the lurid flames
burst out from the coke furnace, gilding the
nearest mountains with deepest crimson.
At their feet the Castle river booms over
hugh bolders of rock, dashing the spray on
its unceasing journey to the sea. The wind
rises and shrieking blows over the moun-
tains, carrying the furnace flames high in
the air. Truly the scene is magnificent,
but wild beyond compare and one could
fancy it a view of Hades. Still the wind
rises; the reflections of the roaring flames
seem to beat out fury against the rugged
mountains which seem to restrain their
blazing advances. The storm bursts; the
wind rushing and sobbing, then roaring as
though destruction were near. The rain
descends, the wind more sullenly blows,
and though the rain subsides the wind
holds high carnival through the night.
Once more we view the scene so grand, yet
breathing a sense of solemn awe.
	On the morrow good bye again and fare-
well to these good and noble friends, and
may we meet again. The rushing train
slows up, we step aboard, then hence to the
city by the Great Salt Lake.

	As we travel on o’er [-]ife’s rough journey,
		How oft we cross the street Good Bye! 
	At morn clasp hands whose touch is gladness,
		At eve to part with many a sigh.

	But this is life, Good Bye, Good Bye,
		Ye first we’ve met, e’er yet we part,
	To meet is joy, the parting’s pain,
		And presses heavy on the heart.


The time will come when no Good Byes,
	Will ever jar upon the ear;  
We’ll meet, we’ll meet with no farewells,
	Where never’s known the falling tear.
But on life’s way, steep mountains frowning,
	Bar the traveler from a world so fair;
Where o’er the summits bright, unchanging,
	Is the City Golden. May we meet up there.
