BEAUTIFUL SALTAIR.

[Written for Press Club Day at the Lake.]
	Salt Lake City, the “Mecca of the West,”
is an idealistic home, nestling among the
Rockies so mysterious with Indian legends,
and cradled between the snowy peaks and
sunny slopes of the Wasatch and Oquirrh
chains of mountains. By her thrifty firesides
of cottage and mansion, amidst her abun-
dant fields and hanging vineyards,and in the
cultured shade of her public parks, gray
haired sires love to repeat the story of the
perilous pioneer days, whose semi-centen-
nial anniversary was so recently celebrated
with pride and pageantry in the heart of
the once American desert.
	Here sixty-five thousand souls pursue
life in its various vocations, on the farm, in
the bank, the mine and factory. Salt Lake
City is no longer a half known little oasis
in the sagebrush desert, but a flourishing
Arcadia with metropolitan attainments.
She is proud of her sons and daughters,
her elegant homes and finished schools;
proud, too, of her public buildings, her
parks, her health and pleasure resorts, and
most and best of all that combine beauty,
health, pleasure and magnitude is Saltair,
the famous bathing resort thirty minutes
ride by rail from the centre of the city.
Fastened upon the bosom of the great Salt
Lake, where saline breezes kiss with health
the weary invalid, and whose surface is
dotted by hundreds of happy bathers who
dip and float with content and idleness. 
	To the strains of the latest waltz the
merry dancers lightly trip over the glassy

[Column 2]
smoothnss of the pavilion, the largest of
its kind in the world.
	Saltair, pleasure loving daughter of the
sleeping sea of the west! A miniature 
Venice, not of the Adriatic but of America’s 
dead sea. Reposing upon her mother’s bosom 
like a beautiful bird, breeze-kissed and
brilliant with flashing jewels, her wings
out-spread she poises with grace on the
crest of the salt-capped wave as it breaks
upon the whitened beach of that mystical 
sea of the West. Her resting place is well 
chosen near the home of the seagull, whom
she so naively typifies. The musical lap-
ping of the wavelets caress her plumage,
whilst she holds on her beak the silver 
threads of romance and reality. Merrily
she greets the rising sun and throughout
the long summer days she reclines upon
the placid waters, vain of her own beauty
reflected within the sapphire depths, until
the decline of day when she prepares with
gladness to receive within the cover of her
reaching wings the guests whose arrival is
signaled by curling steam and puffing speed.
	When evening shades are gathering Salt-
air reaches the height of her magnificent 
sublimity. Bathed in the changing hues of
the sunset glory the picture is the realiza-
tion of fairydom. As by the touch of magic
appear the forms of youth and beauty, 
grace and dignity, gliding and swaying to
the rhythm of music and laughter, whilst 
dancing lights are flitting like fire flies upon
the bosom of the lake and playing with the
stars at hide and seek among the rippling 
waves, vanishing at last beneath the silver
bridge thrown by the moon across the
water, a typical pathway to heaven.
	As midnight approaches Saltair Queen of
Salt Lake, sinks in slumber draped in
her mantle of darkness and solitude, un-
conscious of the joys and heart-burnings of
the day that is dead, and heedless of those
that may come on the morrow.
	And so through the long summer days
she lives a kaleidiscopic life until the chill- 
ing touch of King Frost gives her warning 
that her reign is over. With dignity she
enfolds herself in winter’s white mantle and
statuesque as a frozen goddess she awaits
the return of her votaries whom the summer
time will bring again to her embrace.
			MARY A. J. LAMBERT.
Silver Lake, Sep. 1, 1898.


"Would that we could have a woman
surgeon-general; a woman at the head of
the Commissary Department; a woman at 
the head of the trained nurses, with power
to control each department. Do you think
then that red tape would shut away the
needed food for the well or the sick?"
—Miss Anthony.

	Miss Anthony says that man does his
own part of the work well—that is  the
hewing, cutting and killing---but for the
woman’s part, the housekeeping, the mak-
ing of things homelike and comfortable for
the tens of thousands of mothers’ boys, he 
is a total failure.


