	NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN.

	The circulars for the Executive Meetings
of the National Council of Women which is
to be held in Omaha have been received,
and a program mapped out shows the scope
of the plan of work to be done or to be at-
tempted. This is to be the last Executive
meeting before the Triennial of the Nation-
al Council which will be held in Washing-


ton, D. C., sometime in the spring of 1898.
The Omaha meetings will open on the 24th of October next and continue until the 29th,
inclusive. They are under the auspices of
the Woman’s Department of the Trans-
Mississippi and International Exposition.
	The readers of the “Exponent” will re-
memember that the National Council of
Women is the great organization of which
the National Woman’s Relief Society and
the Y. L. M.N.I.A. form a part. It is com-
posed of great National organizations and
represents hundreds of thousands of women.
The president of each of the organizations
forming the Council is vice-president in
the Council proper. Many important mat-
ters pertaining to women and to humanity
are to be discussed at these sessions, some
of them are of vital interest to our respec-
tive associations, and it would be very de-
sirable to have as large a number from
each society connected with the Council as
could possibly attend.
	(1.)   The first question open for discus-
sion is “Shall the next Triennial which is
to be convened in 1899 sit in two houses?”
	(2.)   Shall the National Council of Wo-
men of the United States, unite in recom-
mending an amendment to the Constitu-
tion of the International Council of Wo-
men, the object of which shall be to secure
a more direct representation of the work
and interests of the organizations belonging
to the National Council in the International
Council?
	Both these matters are of great importance
and so are the Resolutions which have been
noticed in the preliminary program. One
introduced by Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett is:
	“Resolved, That there be a standing com-
mittee formed in the National Council of
Women of the United States to consider the
case of dependent and delinquent children.”
	This is to be discussed fifteen minutes.
The next one by Mrs. Anita Oliphant,
thirty minutes:
	“Resolved, That the National Council of
Women strenuously opposes the plan pur-
sued by many child-caring institutions of
breaking up families and separating mother
and child, thereby removing responsibili-
ties from those who ought to bear them
and putting additional burdens upon the
charitably disposed in a community; that
the National Council thinks it best to keep
mother and child together whenever possi-
ble; and when it is found that the environ-
ments cannot be elevated, the Council be-
lieves that children should be placed in
families and not institutions. ”


[Column 1]
