MARY ISABELLA HORNE.
	On Sunday the 20th of November, Sister
M. Isabella Horne of this city reached the
dignity and celebrity of four score years, in
full possession of all her faculties and a
good degree of health and energy. Sister
Horne has had a remarkable and eventful
life, more than thirty years of it devoted to
public duties, charitable and philanthropic,
and the temporal, religious and spiritual
welfare of the community.
	Her first public position was when she
was chosen president of the Relief Society
of the Fourteenth ward in this city, and
afterwards she was called by President
Young to preside over the General Re-
trenchment Association at its first organiza-
tion, with seven counselors at that time,
they were Sisters Eliza R. Snow, Zina D.
H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, Sarah M.
Kimball, Miranda P. Hyde, Phebe W.
Woodruff and Margaret Smoot. When
Sister Smoot moved to Provo Sister Eliza-
beth Howard was chosen to fill the vacancy.
At the present time there are three of the
seven still living, Zina D. H. Young, Bath-
sheba W. Smith and Sarah M. Kimball.
Sister Horne traveled through the several
Stakes of Zion with Sister Eliza, Sister
Zina and others from that time and has con-
tinued ever since to visit the various locali-
ities in the interest of the Latter-day work.
	December 22, 1877, Sister Horne was
elected to preside over the Relief Society
in the Salt Lake Stake of Zion, and June
19, 1880 was chosen treasurer of the Central
Board of the General Relief Society.
	Sister Horne was chairman of the Execu-
tive Committee of the Deseret Hospital
Association when it was established in May
1882, and served faithfully twelve years in
that capacity. She was also an active offic-
er in the Deseret Silk Association for many
years, and has always been a practical ad-
vocate of home productions and home in-
dustries. When the Woman’s Coopera-
tive Store was established in 1890 she was
the unanimous choice of the board of
directors for its president, as she had al-
ways made a success of executive work.
	Sister Horne is one of the strongest ad-
vocates of political equality and when suf-
frage was given to the women of Utah in
1870, she rejoiced in the privilege of casting
her ballot for men who would stand for
justice and equality. It was about that
time that President Young nominated Sis-

[Column 2]
ter Horne, Justice of the Peace for the pre-
cinct in which she lived; for several years
she was a member of the Central Committee
of the County and Territory, and her work
in political, charitable and religious lines
has been marked by great earnestness and
characteristic, individuality; and her un-
wavering steadfastness and integrity to the
Gospel is always noticable.
	As a mother and wife her record is with-
out a blemish, and it may well be said of
her “Her works praise her.” She was
married comparatively young for those
days and had fifteen children. She with
her companion, Elder Joseph Horne, lived
to celebrate not only their golden wedding
but also their sixtieth anniversary. Sister
Horne has a numerous posterity, about
ninety grandchildren and thirty great
grandchildren; a mother in Israel in very
deed.
	On Saturday, November 19, a gathering
in her honor convened in the Assembly
Hall in this City, and her counselor, Annie
T. Hyde presided. Prof. C. J. Thomas
with some of the Temple choir took charge
of the music. Counselor Clara C. Cannon
offered the opening prayer, after singing
again by the choir Annie T. Hyde in a few
well chosen words presented an elegant
album made at home in Utah, bound in
morocco with silver clasps and gold letter-
ing, containing loving sentiments from
many friends and each president of a branch
of the society in the Salt Lake Stake of Zion.
	President Zina D. H. Young made the
opening address in her heartfelt, motherly
fashion. A letter was read by Mrs. E. B.
Wells from President Jane S. Richards of
Ogden, expressing love for Sister Horne
and regret at not being present. Remarks
were made by Prests. B. W. Smith, Elmina
S. Taylor Bishop G. H. Taylor and
Apostle H. J. Grant. Dr. E. S. Barney
read her address which was replete with
tenderness and high regard couched in
beautiful language. President Mary A.
Hyde spoke a few words in the gift of
tongues which was interpreted by President
Zina D. H. Young. Mrs. E. B. Wells and
L. John Nuttall also made brief remarks,
and then President Horne responded to the
honors conferred upon her in a modest and
appreciative speech, giving some incidents
in her life that were quite remarkable. The
congregation united in singing the favorite
hymn “O, my Father,” and benediction
was pronounced by Elder George Goddard.
	A dinner party was given for Sister
Horne on Monday, November 21, at the
residence of her daughter, Mrs. Joseph
Tingey, to which about fifty of her most in-
timate friends were invited. The principal
guest was President George Q. Cannon,
Apostle H. J. Grant was also present and a
number of the most eminent women of the
Church. Five of Sister Horne’s daughters
were present and two of her sons. Joseph
Horne, one of the presidency of Sevier
Stake, arrived when the company had as-
sembled, which was a surprise to the moth-
er as well as a great pleasure.
	Sister Horne received several valuable
presents from relatives and friends, tokens
of friendship and esteem, The rooms were
handsomely decorated with smilax, chrysan-
themums and carnations. The dinner was
delicious and tastefully served and the
guests were as happy as though celebrating
a marriage feast. Letters of congratulation
from a distance, poems etc., were read and
social conversation indulged in, later on
extempore speeches were made and the

[Column 3]
evening passed in delightful interchange of
kindly feeling.
	Of Sister Horne it may be truly said,
“Her children rise up and call her blessed.”


