		ST. GEORGE LETTER.

	A few words in regard to the silk indus-
try of this country might be of interest to
your readers. During the early part of
this year Miss Horrocks of Salt Lake City,
under the direction of the Utah Silk Com-
misson, taught fifteen married and twenty-
one unmarried ladies who took a course in
reeling the silk upon the half dozen Japan-
ese reels recently purchased from Japan.
The most of them were delighted with the
work and made rapid progress.
	Last spring there were twenty-six fami-
lies engaged in silk culture in the county.
The product so far reported amounts to
three hundred and sixty-four pounds of
cocoons. These when reeled will make
about ninety pounds of reeled silk.
A good reeler can reel this silk at the rate
of half a pound per day. Within the last
year we have had about ninety yards of
silk woven; it was not of the best quality
owing to the lack of experienced weavers,
we are pleased to say, however, that we
have now secured the services of a skillful
weaver, and we hope in the near future to
have some silk that we can put before the
market.
	There are a great many mulberry trees
in St. George, and in most of the Dixie set-
tlements there are a great many; they make
rapid growth for shade trees. In
St. George Miss Horrocks estimated


[Column 1]
there was enough to feed the worms to
make a thousand pounds of cocoons, and
every year there will be a great increase in
the number set out, owing to the increase
in the water supply since we have the
cottonwood water in town. It is not much
trouble to raise the trees when you can
keep them watered.
	There are many men looking toward the
silk industry as a source of revenue and
with that end in view they expect to plant
mulberries by the acre, and in talking with
influential men on this subject they ex-
press a desire to know what to do to ad-
vance it the most. Of course the right
kind of mulberry tree is the first considera-
tion. There has been an increased interest
in the work since we have used the Japa-
nese reels, and also since we have had silk
woven. Of course we have had many diffi-
culties to contend with, but in beginning
on a small scale and getting the silk into
cloth it showed the people that we meant
business and they can see what can be ac-
complished with a little capital. Expert
reelers must be the first consideration in es-
tablishing factories. Now we have quite a
quantity of reeled silk on hand and a large
number of good reelers. All they want is
encouragement. They ask: “What will we
do with the silk when we get it reeled?”
If we had the necessary means to buy the
reeled silk from those who have produced it,
it would encourage them to push the work.
There is not much encouragement to work
unless they can get such pay as they can
use, for they need it. There are not many
who can afford to reel it and lay it away.
	A young lady from one of the settlements
sent me three quarters of a pound of reeled
silk, very beautiful, and wanted to sell it.
We have such chances as this one often.
We give this industry all the encourage-
ment we can and intend to while life lasts,
or until we see it the blessing and pride of
this country.
			ANN C. WOODBURY.
THE SILK INDUSTRY.
	So much has been said on this subject
that when requested to write I thought,
“What more can I add to what has already
been said and written?” Still if I can add
one word of encouragement to lead our
young people to see the value of this in-
dustry I cheerfully do so.
	How many times I have been asked the
question, “Does it pay to raise silk?” and
I always answer, “Yes, it certainly does.”
But there are some things to be remembered.
First of all we must have mulberry trees, it
is just as necessary that we should have
trees to raise silk, as it is that we should
have land to raise grain; and, by the way,
this fall or next spring will be a good time
to plant trees, and let every one make it a
special point to plant several and in this
way a great deal would be done towards
advancing the cause of the silk industry.
	The Pioneer Nursery Company will be
glad to furnish mulberry trees from five to
fifteen feet high at prices from ten to thirty
cents each.
	After our trees have grown large enough,
which will be about three years, let each
one get right to work. Get just enough
eggs so that the worms can be well fed and
cared for, and in a short time you will be
rewarded by seeing them spin you a nice
lot of beautiful cocoons. The next step is
the reeling; this has been a great drawback
in the past, and how many days have

[Column 2]
spent in trying to get some one to reel my
silk and at last have it rendered unfit for
first class silk. But this is now all over-
come; through the earnest efforts of the Silk
Commission we are now enabled to obtain
reels and the law provides for a person to
teach the reeling at the expense of the State.
There is also bounty of twenty-five cents
on each pound of cocoons raised, which has
been provided by law and ought to arouse
an interest in silk culture.
	We have people in this State who under-
stand the different branches of this indus-
try, such as dyeing, cleansing etc., and as
soon as the demand is sufficient we hope
machinery will be obtained to make the
work lighter
	And now we do hope that those men and
women who are elected to represent us both
in Washington and in the State, whatever
their political belief, will appreciate the
efforts that have been made in this direction
and will give us aid, not only by their in-
fluence but will seek to have us helped in a
financial way. Let each one, no matter
what his or her political belief, seek to get
good men and women in office, who will
work to build up this important branch of
work and other home industries in the
State.
	Let me urge the mothers and daughters
to see that every mulberry tree in the State
is utilized in producing silk. Even now
we can produce a quantity and quality that
is surprising. Speaking of the latter, I
wish every one could see the difference in
the imported silk and our own. I had the
privilege recently of seeing pieces of the
imported and the homemade silk compared,
and really the imported hardly looked like
silk in comparison to our own homemade.
	Let us be more united in our efforts to
develop this industry, for it will be the
little that each one does that will make up
the whole.
			MARIA ZUNDELL.
SILK CULTURE PAST AND PRESENT IN
SANPETE.
	Since Utah has become a state the sub-
ject of home industry and especially seri-
culture has received more attention than
for some years previous, and with judicious
protection and encouragement there is no
good reason why it should not become a
source of wealth and independence to the
people of these mountain valleys.
	Owing to advanced age and infirmities I
am unable to take an active part in the
further development of this important in-
dustry, but if my experience in the past in
this line will be of any benefit to the young-
er generation I shall feel that I am not liv-
ing in vain.
	From my early childhood I have been
perfectly familiar with this business. In
my native state (Connecticut) the scanty
income which the farmers were enabled to
wring from the worn out soil was largely
supplemented by the proceeds of a small
cocoonery which nearly every family main-
tained in their own house. An unused,
vacant, airy chamber furnishing the neces-
sary accomodation for the worms with very
little expense, and very much more profit
than where large sums have been invested
in building expensive structures for this
purpose. So far as my experience goes
both in New England and Illinois, large
cocooneries have invariably resulted in loss
and failure.
	In the year 1873 I again engaged in silk

[Column 3]
culture at my home in Manti as an experi-
ment, and my success far excelled my anti-
cipations. I have demonstrated to my en-
tire satisfaction that the climate and atmos-
phere of Utah is far more favorable to the
health and development of the silk worm
than that of the eastern states. The dis-
ease superinduced by the continuous wet
weather does not exist in our dry climate,
and in fact the only obstacle in the way of
complete success is the present lack of suf-
ficient mulberry trees which can be easily
remedied wherever water is available. There
should be no lack of energy in this direc-
tion as an initial step in accomplishing
great results. But in this as in every other
undertaking patience and perseverance are
necessary to success. The silk worm sea-
son comes during the summer vacation
of the schools, thus giving the children
time and opportunity to pick the leaves and
assist in caring for the worms. If they are
familiar with them from infancy as I was
they do not feel the aversion toward them
that many of our young ladies manifest at
present. Also give the little ones to under-
stand that diligence on their part will be re-
warded when the silk is sold.
	In the year 1876 Sister E. R. Snow or-
ganized a silk association in Manti for San-
pete county, and for several years a con-
siderable amount of silk was produced in
Manti by Sister Maria Weibye and myself,
also in Ephraim by a Sister Peterson and
in Gunnison by Sister Helena Madsen.
All these sisters are deserving of much
credit for their pioneer labors in behalf of
silk culture. Sister Elizabeth Higgs has
also been indefatigable in her labors as silk
agent, canvassing the town and urging up-
on the sisters the immediate necessity of
planting mulberry trees.
	In one season I made sufficient silk for a
dress but it was unfortunately spoiled in
the weaving. Two years ago my grand-
daughter raised sufficient cocoons to obtain
$2.25 bounty. She also sold them to Mrs.
Margaret A. Caine for the Omaha Exposi-
tion. She is a teacher in the public schools
but she thinks she can raise silk during her
summer vacation. I hope that many more
young ladies may feel impressed to go and
do likewise. I feel that there is a great
future for this State if our people will only
be wise in their day and generation, and by
wise legislation and individual effort care-
fully utilize the elements within our reach,
which will tend to make us a prosperous
and independent people.
	Let us hope that our new legislature
will give this important subject the atten-
tion it deserves during the coming session.
Let our sisters realize that the silk indus-
try will open a new field of occupation for
their children, which will be the means of
adding many comforts to the homes of those
who are in straightened circumstances if
they avail themselves of the opportunities
offered. Let our young ladies see to it that
their adornment shall be the work of their
own hands and not the products of Babylon.
	And above all let us realize the purpose
for which we have come to this promised
land, and strive diligently to become the
self-sustaining people the Lord designs us
to be.
		REBECCA WAREHAM.
ENCOURAGING SILK CULTURE.
	One of the first acts of the legislature of
Utah after Statehood had been declared, was
the passing of a bill to encourage silk cul-


[Column 1]
ture in the new state. No act could have
been more commendable. In doing this
those who are the leaders of thought, de-
clared their interest in the welfare of the
people at large. They showed their belief
in a great principle that it is the duty of
the State to take the responsibility of en-
couraging industry, of assisting the isolated
and dependent to united action which shall
result to the good of all. The personnel of
the commission appointed by Governor
Wells to carry out the idea of the act of the
legislature were a guarantee that the inten-
tion of the bill would be faithfully adhered
to. Mrs. Zina D. H Young, Mrs. C. W.
Bennett, Mrs. M. A. Caine and two others,
one in St. George and one in Springville,
should be forever held in grateful remem-
brance by the people of Utah for the con-
scientious way in which they have executed
their trust. It is gratifying to note the
great increase of interest in the silk culture
in Utah from year to year since the silk
bill was passed. The increase of one hun-
dred dollars in bounties this last year
means a great increase in production. May
another year bring still greater increase.
	If the women of the State generally
will give as much time and labor to raising
cocoons as the women of the Silk Commis-
sion have given to the necessary administra-
tive work connected with the distribution of
eggs and testing the cocoons, in a few
years the silk industry will be on the road
to permanent establishment.
	It is interesting to go back in history
over the story of the growth of the produc-
tion of silk fabrics.
	The process of rearing the worms, reel-
ing the thread and weaving the cloth is
said to have been discovered in China, 2600
B. C. The secret of silk culture was
guarded most jealously by the Chinese. It
was death to reveal the process to a foreign-
er, and so perfectly was the will of the
government in this matter carried out, that
it was not until 555 A. D., that the world
east of China had any knowledge of the
precious art. At that time two Mesbian
monks brought silk worm eggs concealed
in their staves to the Emperor Justinian at
Constantinople. Silk culture immediately
became established in Europe.
	France has become the greatest silk pro-
ducing country because there the govern-
ment has done most to foster and protect
the industry. At one time silk workers
were exempt from taxation and every in-
ducement was offered to engage in the pro- 
duction of cocoons. The wisdom of this
national policy in France has been proved
by the result. At the present time in
France silk is manufactured at the value of
one hundred and twenty million francs an-
nually, and from 800,000 to 1,000,000 oper-
ators are employed. It is hardly too much
to say that the silk industry in France
makes the difference in that country be-
tween prosperity and the want of it.
	Efforts in America to establish silk cul-
ture have been numerous but spasmodic.
Georgia was established as a silk colony, but
the vicissitudes of those early colonists are
sufficient explanation of the failure of the
project. Before the war of the Revolution
many of the colonists were successfully en-
gaged in silk culture, but when the war be-
gan the industry was entirely suspended.
From 1825 to 1844 there was a great reviv-
al of interest in silk culture throughout the
country, but one of those inexplicable ex-
citements to which nations are subject, tem-

[Column 2]
porarily suppressed the industry. The
gambling in the stocks of mulberry cuttings
reached a point only equalled by the tulip
craze in Holland. Many men lost their en-
tire fortunes and every one was foolishly
turned from the idea of engaging in silk
culture.
	The people of Utah are quite familiar
with the history of sericulture in this State.
There has been a constant attempt on the
part of the leaders of the people to guide
them to industries of all kinds which shall
make them useful and prosperous. Silk
culture is an important industry to which.
Utah is well adapted by its climatic condi-
tions. What has already been done in silk
culture in Utah is a promise that great
things can be accomplished in the future.
The time should be near at hand when all
the silk required in the various cloth manu-
factories in Utah should be supplied at
home. The thousands of dollars then earned
will help to educate our children, build
comfortable houses, improve our roads and
eventually prove one of the foundation
stones upon which the prosperity of the
State shall rest.
	Let every woman who raises a few pounds
of cocoons in her little home feel that she
is a factor in a great enterprise which the
State is undertaking for the good of us all.
As she watches the wonderful mystery of
the assimilation of the fibers of the mul-
berry leaves and the spinning of the golden
web, may she feel that this wonderful pro-
cess of nature is to be made use of for com-
munity life. The perfect adaptability of
God’s plan of nature to the needs of man,
to my mind, has never been more clearly
indicated than in the development of the
silk industry. May the State continue to
foster it and patriotic women continually re-
spond to the efforts of the State.
