WAYNE STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Wayne
Stake was held at Junction, Wayne Co.,
on Sunday afternoon, August 28, 1898.
Present on the stand the Stake officers of
the society and President W. E. Robison,
Counselors H. M. Hanson and G. S. Bas-
tian, also Patriarch E. H. Blackburn and
other brethren. Meeting opened by sing-
ing “Praise to the man” etc. Prayer offered
by President W. E. Robison. Singing
“Hail to the brightness” etc.
	President Jane S. Coleman spoke upon
the gifts and privileges of the Gospel. She
said that mothers should not neglect their
homes, they should teach their children in
their youth the principles of the Gospel.
She had lately visited, in company with
Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe and Sister
Louisa Brown, six of the local Relief Soci-
ety branches and could report them in good
condition, awake to their duties and an in-
crease in attendance at meetings. Gave in-
structions pertaining to Relief Society work
and the duties of teachers, advised the
presidents and grain committees to com-
mence gathering up the grain while it was
plentiful and fulfill the obligation placed
upon us in this direction to save up grain
for future need.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe was thank-
ful for the privilege of meeting in confer-
ence, said we should strive continually to
enjoy the spirit of God that our faith may
increase. She was pleased to see the inter-
est manifested among the sisters in the Re-
lief Society work and noted the union that
existed in the different branches where she
had lately visited in the Stake. Gave good
advice to mothers on many subjects pertain-
ing to living good lives and practicing our


[Column 1]
religion in our daily walk and conversation.
	Teasdale Relief Society was reported in
good condition by Counselor Margaret A.
Adams. She also bore testimony to the
truth of the Latter-day work. Aldrich
society was reported by the president in
good order. Sister Eliza Rust, president
of Cainsville society, reported well. They
cultivate an acre lot for the benefit of their
society, she also stated the young sisters
were members and were united with them
and acted as assistant teachers.
	Sister Thisbe Hanks bore a faithful testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel, spoke up-
on the power of the priesthood in adminis-
tering to the sick and upon the gift of heal-
ing. and exhorted the young to be faithful.
	President W. E. Robison said he had en-
joyed the remarks of the sisters and the
spirit of the meeting, would have been
pleased if more of the brethren had been
present. He was gratified to know that
the sisters were energetic in saving grain,
appreciated their labors and spoke very en-
couragingly of the same, wished them suc-
cess and prayed God to bless them.
	Sister Elizabeth Jeffry of Loa bore testi-
mony to the lovely truths of the Gospel,
said we should practice the spirit of love
and charity and sustain the Relief Society
by our good works.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing “Redeemer of Israel.” Benedic-
tion by G. S. Bastian.
		ANNA COLEMAN, Sec.
ALBERTA, CANADA.
	The Relief Society of Alberta Stake held
its annual conference at the Leavitt meet-
ing house October 8, 1898, President Mary
L. Woolf presiding. Singing “Glorious
things of thee are spoken.” Prayer by
Elder Niels Hanson. Singing “Come let
us anew.” Roll was called showing thir-
teen officers present each responding with a
sentiment. Minutes of the forenoon ses-
sion of the previous conference read and ap-
proved.
	President Woolf said the object in hold-
ing our conferences in other wards was to
give all the sisters a chance to attend
There is a great mission for mothers, she
realized it more every day. She wished
the sisters to be punctual and enjoy the
spirit of God that will be given when in
the line of our duties. We should look
after the poor and comfort those afflicted
and downcast. We should also visit those
who are coming into our midst and make
them welcome. Desired to be energetic
and perform the labors required of her.
	President Anna Baker of Leavitt had
been unable to attend her duties being al-
most constantly at the bedside of her
mother, asked for the faith and prayers of
the sisters in her mother’s behalf.
	Counselor Sarah Broadbent of Leavitt re-
ported the society as being in a prosperous
condition. She knew the sisters were bless-
ed with the spirit of God and desired to do
all in their power to roll on the great work.
	President Elizabeth Webb reported the
Mountain View society. Although in a
scattered condition the sisters were united
and faithful in performing their labors.
	Counselor Elizabeth Leavitt of Leavitt
felt to do her duty as a worker in the Re-
lief Society.
	Counselor Eva Hanson of Ætna society 
said they were in a very scattered condi-
tion and it was difficult for the sisters to at-
tend their meetings, but if they would be

[Column 2]
prayerful the Lord would open up the way
for them to meet together and receive spirit-
ual food. Mothers so much need to train
their children in the right way, nothing
gave her more pleasure than to gather her
little ones around her and instruct them in
the things of God. God knows our very
thoughts and if we are faithful He will
bless us according to our needs. It is a
great mission to be a mother, she felt grate
ful for every dear little one intrusted to her
care and desired great wisdom to guide
them aright.
	Sister Annie Layne said she knew the
spirit of God was with us. The Lord is
blessing the people in this Stake of Zion
and we should not complain. Felt grate-
ful that her children were all in the Church.
	Sister Martha Quinton said although
their numbers were few they could realize
the promise of the Savior, that when a few
meet in His name His spirit will be with
them. Knew she had been healed by the
power of God and felt grateful for the kind-
ness of the sisters during her illness. Said
if we would attend our meetings we would
be built up and return to our homes re-
freshed and be better prepared to attend to
the cares and duties of life. Go before our
Heavenly Father and He will lighten our
burdens.
	Sister Eliza Leavitt had received a testi-
mony to the truth of the work, felt to do
her duty.
	Elder Charles Quinton addressed the con-
ference. Said there never has been a time
in the history of the Church when the
Saints have been more blessed than at the
present time, we are blessed with inspired
leaders, knew the sisters were inspired and
spoke by the spirit of God. Whatever we
are called upon to do, it is our duty to re-
spond. He had laid aside his labors to at-
tend the conference and felt blessed in so
doing.
	President Mary L. Woolf made a few
closing remarks. Felt grateful for the
sweet influence that had been in our midst.
Meeting was adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing “Where the voice of friendship’s heard.”
Benediction by Counselor Jane Hinman.
	Afternoon session, President Mary L.
Woolf presiding. Singing “Guide us O
Thou Great Jehovah.” Prayer by Elder
Francis Broadbent. Singing “O my
Father.” Minutes of afternoon session of
previous conference read and approved.
	President Woolf desired all the presidents
of the several branches of the society to
subscribe for the “Exponent,” urged the
sisters to sustain it, said it was a valuable
paper. Spoke of the building that the
society wanted to erect in Salt Lake City
for the purpose of holding the Relief Soci-
ety conferences. She wished the sisters to
assist those who preside and donate liber-
ally for the purpose.
	President Sarah Daines said: “We are
engaged in a grand and noble work, if we
could all understand our duties and per-
form them we should be a power in the
land. Mothers are looked to as an example
for their children, they should set worthy
examples. We should teach our children
to reverence the priesthood of God and His
house of worship and show respect to the
aged.” Reported the Cardston ward, the
sisters were all faithful in their labors.
Said we must have charity to do good, we
are all God’s children, we should pray for
those who are downcast and afflicted.
	Counselor E. Davidson of Mt View said it

[Column 3]
was good for us to be here and partake of
the spirit of God. She had a desire to do
her duty, had received many testimonies
that the work we are engaged in is true.
	Counselor Rhoda C. Hinman said God is
pleased with us when we lay aside our
labors and attend our meetings. We are
blest abundantly and have many oppor-
tunities today we did not have a few years
ago. We should improve our time and
progress in wisdom and knowledge. Our
mission is to look after the poor and afflict-
ed, hoped we would always be found doing
our duty.
	The congregation then sang “The spirit
of God like a fire is burning.”
	Counselor Jane Hinman said: “Mothers
have great responsibilities, carry the spirit
and instructions you have received here to
your homes. Let us show by our works
that we love God and keep His command-
ments.”
	Elder Niels Hanson said he had been
greatly edified in meeting with the sisters,
knew they were trying to perform their
duties as mothers and they could not be en-
gaged in a greater work. Felt grateful he
had heard and embraced the true Gospel of
Christ, that his children could be brought
up under the right influence. Prayed God
to bless the sisters with strength to per-
form their duties.
	President Woolf had been delighted with
the conference. Said: “Sisters make an
effort to attend your meetings and the Lord
will open up the way. Do not be back-
ward in arising to bear your testimonies, it
will strengthen you. Teach your children
to honor the priesthood, if we teach them
correct principles they will not depart from
them. Teach them faith practically, when
they are sick have them kneel with you
and pray together for the recovery of those
afflicted.”
	Counselor Jane Hinman then presented
the names of the General and Stake officers,
all were unanimously sustained.
	President Anna Baker felt pleased with
the good time we had had together and
thanked the sisters for their kindness to her
mother.
	May Lula Ibey bore her testimony. She
had been taught faith practically from her
youth, had been healed by faith and ad-
ministration. Spoke of the words uttered
by our late President Wilford Woodruff at
the April conference. We do not appre-
ciate the day we live in; the coming of the
Savior is nearer our door than we realize.
Let us live faithfully and be prepared for
the blessings that await us, pray for the
spirit of discernment and cultivate the gift
of faith.
	Meeting was adjourned for three months.
Singing “I long to breathe the mountain
air.” Benediction by Brother Charles
Quinton.
		MARY L. IBEY, Act. Sec.


