ELEANOR PATTERSON.
	On Saturday, August 20, 1898, Sister Eleanor
Patterson departed this life in her home at St.
Johns, Arizona. She was thirty-four years and
eleven days old. She had born to her six girls,
four of whom are still living, and one boy, which
was seven months old at her death. Her health
has been such since its birth that she has not been
able to enjoy the heavenly gift she had so much
desired, and in fact she had been a sufferer for
about two years previous.
	She was a consistent Latter-day Saint, a true


wife and mother in the highest sense of the term,
and I firmly believe she would not be afraid to
have her record read from the house tops. She
was counselor to the president of the Relief Soci-
ety of this ward and we the members of the Relief
Society desire to express our deep and earnest
sympathy for the household so bereaved, and we
lament the loss of such an exemplary member of
our society although we feel her reward is sure.
					R. E. BERRY SEC.
MARY RICHES EAGAR.
	At 3 o’clock Sunday, October 2, 1896, at Apache,
Arizona Co., the spirit of our esteemed sister,
Mary B. Riches Eagar, aged forty-five years, was
called home to the sweet beyond.
	Although her demise has cast a gloom over our
society of which she was so active a member we
feel to acknowledge the hand of our Heavenly
Father. Sister Eagar had served as an officer in
the Relief Society of this ward (Union) for many
years. She was first sustained as secretary Jan.
1, 1880, and acted in that capacity u[-]til June 14,
1891, at which date she was honorably released
from acting as secretary and at once chosen and
sustained as second counselor. She served as
counselor until Ju[-]y 1896, at which date she was
again chosen and sustained as secretary which
office she held till the time of her death.
	Sister Eagar died as she had lived a true Latter
day Saint, and that is all that could be said in any
one’s praise. She leaves a husband and eleven
children to mourn her loss.
	Our society feels to tender its sympathy to the
family and relatives wherever they may be.
		CHARLOTTE JENSEN Pres.
		MAGGIE JENSEN, Asst Sec.
JANE WILKIE BLOOD.
	We are again called to part with one of our
faithful fellow laborers in the Relief Society, Sis-
ter Jane Wilkie Blood.
	Sister Blood was born in Southampton, Hamp-
shire, England, May 2, 1845. In 1854 she with
her parents came to Utah. They arrived in Salt
Lake City on October 3, 1854, and she was mar-
ried to William Blood in 1860.
	Sister Blood was called to act as a teacher in
the Kaysville Relief Society May 14, 1868, and
cheerfully filled this place, always being willing
to do whatever she was called upon. A short
time after she was chosen treasurer in the same
society. She was always ready to relieve the poor
and needy and was always at her post of duty
She was blessed wi[-]h a strong will power and
never shrank from any task that lay before her.
	In 1879 she was called to preside over the
Primary Association. On July 17, 1882, she was
chosen first counselor to Sarah B. Layton in the
Relief Society, which office she filled until she
passed away.
	She was the mother of five sons and five
daughters and they all survive her.
	Sister Blood was a friend to the Indians, and
often gave them food and clothing. She took
great pleasure in teaching the young people the
Gospel. For thirty years she was a member of
the Kaysville choir, also a teacher in the Sunday
School for many years. Her motto was duty be-
fore pleasure, and she attended to her household
duties, never complaining. We have no doubt
but Sister Blood has gone to continue her labors
in the spirit world.
	On September 7, after an illness of five months
she passed away, leaving her ten children and
a husband to mourn her loss, being full of faith to
the end.
