STAND BY AMERICAN PRINCIPLES.

Indianapolis, Ind., Sep. 15, 1898.
	To me it is a bitter disappointment that
our great Republic had not gotten on far
enough to do righteousness and to compel
another nation to do righteousness without
resorting to bloodshed. To my mind there
is a contradiction in the words "Civilized
war," and a more emphatic contradiction
in the words "Christian war."
	It seemed six months ago that our coun-
try would rally all the moral forces latent
in the people, by a diplomatic use of those
forces to rescue Cuba from tyranny.
Whether it might have done so we can
never know; that it did not is certain. Those
of us who deplored the war, as well as those
who invoked it, must feel a patriotic pride
in the courage and gallantry that our men
have manifested in every encounter, wheth-
er by land or sea. We must feel an equal
pride in the heroism with which they have
borne hardships not necessary even in war-
fare.
	But the pride we feel in that physical
heroism, which could not have been mani-
fested without an undercurrent of moral
heroism, must not blind us to the dangers
that assail our country in its hour of
triumph. If ever a nation accompanied a
declaration of war with an avowal of abso-
lute unselfishness, such declaration was
made by the United States through its
Senate in the resolution which disavowed
any intention of territorial aggression. Now
the war being ended, temporarily at least,

[Column 2]
one can hardly pick up a newspaper of
any party, or even a religious newspaper of
any sect without encountering such phrases
as "Our new territory," "The conquered
provinces," "The rightful spoils of the con-
querer." "Our conquests," "Our new
colonial possessions," etc- What do these
phrases mean? Do they mean that as a
nation we have forgotten our disavowal of
any desire to increase our territory by the
war with Spain? Does it mean that we
have really resumed the mediæval standard,
and believe in military conquests? Does it
mean that the ideal of Cæsar and the ambi-
tion of Napoleon have displaced the ideas of
Washington and his associates?
	How can we talk of "Our new posses-
sions?" Do we own the Ladrones by con-
quest? Have we a right to replace in
Cuba the domination of the Spaniard by
the domination of the United States?
What is the meaning of this discussion
of whether we shall annex the Philippines
as a group, or be satisfied with taking a few
of the islands?
	These discussions, and the constant re-
currence of phrases like those quoted above
seem to indicate that we are maddened by
the taste of blood, and that the influence of
the war, or of our success in it, has been to
blind us to the principles which we have
avowed, the principles indeed upon which
our Government rests.
	For myself I have never been abroad
without feeling, in the presence of the uni-
formed soldiery on every hand, a reminder
of the blessed condition of my own land. I
have been more proud and more grateful
for our having no standing army and no
navy than for any possessions that my
country could boast, I have heard hun-
dreds of American citizens express the same
sentiments, and have read columns of cor-
respondence and editorial and other news-
paper writing, the sole object of which was
to congratulate the citizens of the United
States on being free from militarism. Yet
now we are as eager to have the largest
navy in the world, to increase our standing
army and to become "a military power" as
Germany itself. Do we believe that
"government derives its just power from
the consent of the governed?" Can we
pretend that we believe this, and then set
up a "military government" in what we
call our "conquered provinces?"
	It seems that one encounters ridicule by
even asking these questions. We are told
that the "Idealism which did very well for
a young nation, for a youthful people de-
veloping under pioneer conditions, is not
for seventy millions with a navy strong
enough to be a balance of power in the
Eastern question." This scornful rejection
of our ideals, one encounters in nine out of
every ten newspaper paragraphs that she
sees, and in nine but of every ten public
speeches that she hears.
	Are we, then, to confess that the ideals,
which for more than a century we have
boasted were destined to secure the ultimate
union of all the peoples of the world in a
federation of republics, are fit only for peo-
ple just emerging fron colonial subjection,
and not at all for people developed into im-
perial strength? Can only the puny and
the few rejoice in ideals? And are these
most precious of all possessions to be sur-
rendered by the numerous and the strong?
	The immediate first duty of every good
American, of every good citizen of a repub-
lic, of every believer in the doctrine of self-
government, of every man or woman who


has ever boasted that our country was a
refuge of the oppressed, and that our
Government was framed upon principles to
which the world in the evolutionary pro-
cess would come, is to expunge the obnox-
ious monarchial, anti-democratic, anti-
Christian phrases that are polluting our
speech. “Remember the Maine,” that
direct appeal to the sentiment of revenge,
“The rights of the conquering nations,”
that direct confession of allegiance to
Ceasarism—let these phrases and all their
numerous synonyms be compelled to go.
MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.
—Ex.


