LYDIA EVELINE CARTER HALES. 
	Died at Bountiful, Utah, August 18, 1898, of
dysentery and old age, Mrs. Lydia Eveline Carter
Hales, wife of Stephen Ha[-]es; she has been a
widow for seventeen yea[-]s. Her husband died
in Salt Lake City, Utah, in 1861. Mrs. Lydia
Eveline Carter Hales was a native of Vermont.
When a child of ten years, at her father’s house
in the town of Benson, Rutland Co., Vermont,
Parley P. Pratt came into the town preaching the
doctrine of Christ. At that time her father,
Simeon Carter, was a Methodist preacher and
could quote the Bible with great facility. Elder
Pratt was not long in convincing Mr. Carter that
the Church of Jesus Christ was the one he was
looking for.
	At the time the Saints were gathering at Nau-
voo Mr. Carter with his wife, one son and Lydia
Eveline moved to Nauvoo. Lydia grew to wo-
manhood and was married to Stephen Hales Oct-
ober 16, 1832, by P. G. Sessions. They built
themselves a comfortable home but did not enjoy
it long, as a mob drove the Saints out from Nau-
voo. They then started for Utah; got as far as
Iowa and on account of sickness did not leave
for two years, arriving in Ut[-]h in the fall of 1851.
They stayed in Salt Lake City until 1868 when
they moved to Bountiful, where Mrs. Hales has
lived up to the time of her death. Mrs. Hales
has lived a quiet life and leaves numerous rela-
tives and friends to mourn her loss. She died a
faithful member of the Church.
	Funeral services were held in the South Boun-
tiful meeting house on Sunday afternoon August
21, at 2 o’clock.
							[COM.]
GONE TO HER REST.
	In the recent death of our aged relative and
friend, Sister Phebe Beable Rodeback, who de-
parted this life Sep. 17, at 11 p. m., t[-]is world lost
one of its [-]oblest souls and heaven gained as pure
and holy a spirit as ever entered its portals.
	Being an early pioneer she witnessed all the
trying scenes and annoying times which harassed
the Saints during the first settlement of our now
beautiful State, and with them she bore those
trials with patience and an unflinching heart.
Ever quiet, kind and loving, sh[-] was loved a[-]d
esteemed by all who knew her. She was so un-
selfish she thought always of others before her-
self, and so long as she was able her gentle, will-
ing hands were ever ready to aid others in their
hour of need and distress.
	Her mind, which for her advanced years, was
unusually bri[-]ht, and until the day of her death
she understood ever thing that was happening
around her, and talked intelligently on all the
leading events and topics of the times.
	Sister Rodeback and her husband were friends
of t[-]e Prophet Joseph Smith and often enter-
tained him at their home in Nauvoo They were
also very dear friends of Bishop Edward Hunter
and before their marriage in Pennsylvania we[-]e
both members of that good man’s household.
	Sister Rodeback passed from this earth at the
home of her daughter. Mrs. Rebecca Cook of
Cedar valley, Utah, to join her loved ones on the
golden shore, and to meet the God whom she
had loved and served so long and faithfully. She
was the widow of the late James Rodeback and
wa born in Chester Co., Pa., June 26, 1811. In
1839 she became a member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and in 1840 or
41 removed to Nauvoo where she resided during
the troublous times there. With her husband
and six chi[-]dren she came to Utah in 1852, being
a memb[-]r of the late Uriah Curtis’ company
	Si[-]ter Rodeback remained a faithtul Latter-
day Saint until the end and has surely received
the promised great reward in heaven.
								L. E. C.


