ASSOCIATION GLEANINGS.
	The Relief Society conference of Summit
Stake was held Tuesday, September 6, at
Hennefer, Mrs. Mary J. Atwood presiding.
A meeting was also held at Coalville.
Dr. E. S. Barney of this city was present,
also Bishop Atwood of Kamas.

	The Relief Society of Oneida held con-
ference at Franklin, Idaho, Tuesday, Sep-
tember 13. Sister E. J. Stevenson of this
city was present and reports an enjoyable
time and excellent meetings, also a meeting
at Preston after conference had adjourned.

	The Relief Society of Sanpete Stake met
in conference at Manti on Friday, Septem-
ber 9, in the Council House. Counselor
Abbie Shoemaker presided in the absence
of the president, Mary A. T. Hyde, who
did not reach there after attending Presi-
dent Woodruff's funeral in time for the
morning session, but was present in the
afternoon as also was her counselor, Alvira
S. Cox, and Mrs. E. B. Wells of Salt Lake
City. The meeting was an interesting one
and the subjects of storing grain (after the
abundant harvest this year) and of establish-
ing silk culture as a remunerative home in-
dustry were ably treated upon by the sisters.

	The Y. L. M. I. A. of Sanpete Stake
held its conference on Saturday, September
10, in the Council House, Miss Christine
Willardson presiding. Meetings at 10 a.
m. and 2 p. m., the hall filled with young
women was a delightful picture and the re-
ports from branch associations in the Stake
were very gratifying. Much good instruc-


tion was given concerning education, the
home, and spiritual matters. President
Maiben spoke a short time in the afternoon,
dwelling much upon the home and kindred
interests.
	President M. I. Horne of this Stake of
Zion, her counselors and aids, have been at-
tending meetings in the several wards
giving instruction and encouragement ac-
cording to the needs and circumstances of
the society. They report society affairs
generally very prosperous, although during
the hot weather the meetings have not been
so well attended.
	On Tuesday, September 6, the Cannon
ward held its reuglar meeting, President
Sarah J. Cannon presiding. Meeting con-
vened in the school house adjacent to the
dwellings for convenience although the
ward has a handsome new meeting house,
in the building and furnishing of which the
Relief Society materially assisted. There
was a very good number of sisters present,
many of them young women, which is
very gratifying. The minutes were very
interesting indeed, the speakers were Presi-
dent Sarah J. Cannon, Sisters Caroline
Smoot, Rebecca Williams, Mary E. Sharp,
Martha T. Cannon and E. B. Wells. The
Society seems to be making great progress
in active work. After the close of the
meeting delicate refreshments were served
and a pleasant social hour indulged in.
Such converse among the sisters sweetens
the daily life and promotes union.


