LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	Minutes of the Ladies Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall, on Saturday, September 17, 1898,
Counselor B. W. Smith presiding in the
absence of President Horne. Singing “O,
say what is truth.” Prayer by Sister
Julia C. Howe. Singing “We thank Thee
O, God for a prophet.”
	Sister Smith said that Sister Eliza R.
Snow had said that there would be a soci-
ety formed that would be as the school of
prophets to the sisters. Observed that she
was not as punctual as she was in her
younger days, but she always enjoyed the
meetings and the testimonies of the sisters.
We should make good resolutions when we
meet together and carry them out in our
lives.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde said these meet-
ings had done her a great deal of good, she
had tried hard to overcome her timidity and
had found this was a good school for wo-
men. Spoke of the many changes that had
come to us, and of the death of our beloved
President Woodruff. She had been well
acquainted with him, could rememember
when she was a child of his honest and
honorable character. Thought we should
all have the love of Christ in our hearts and
not criticise or backbite each other, and
that the example that parents should set for
their children should be exemplary. We
mothers should know where our children are.
	Sister Howe said she would like to speak
so as to be heard if possible, and would say
what the Lord dictated. She always taught
the children when she presided in the Pri-
mary not to steal or be disobedient, she felt
anxious for the children of Zion. The
Prophet Joseph had said the Relief Society
should assist in correcting the morals, we
should exercise faith and grow stronger.
Alluded to President Woodruff, what an
exemplary man he was in all things, men-

[Column 2]
tioned a sermon of John W. Taylor’s in
which he said that spiritual gifts did and
must exist in the Church, and we should
live to exercise these gifts. Let us not be
guilty of having any gifts from Satan, let
no contention exist among us but be filled
with charity and love.
	Sisters Rawlings and Brown and others
bore testimony to the goodness of God and
said many excellent things, rejoiced in
spiritual gifts and the work in the Temple,
felt thankful for such blessed opportunities.
	Sister Margaret P. Young said she
thought the sisters who had expressed
themselves were very useful, for their
words were to the effect that they were in-
terested in each other and striving to do
each other good. Thought we should pray
for and appreciate those sisters who presided
over us as they were growing aged in body,
but were still filled with ambition for the
work of God. Felt that the golden mo-
ments that God grants to us should be
spent in getting precious knowledge.
	Sister Jane M. E. Young was called up-
on by Counselor B. W. Smith and gave
some of her experiences in visiting the
State Penitentiary, she thought we should
correct all evil and profanity we hear among
children, more especially boys are inclined
to this evil. Spoke of President Woodruff
and the counsel he had given her, what a
comfort his words had been. Alluded to
his economy of time. “Dear sisters, I do
pray that we will be able to train and
rear our children in a pleasing manner unto
God; this is my humble prayer.”
	Sister Hyde said she wished to bear her
testimony of the goodness of God, said He
was good and that His eye was over us.
	Other sisters also bore testimony and ex-
pressed many good wishes. Counselor
Smith said she hoped we would all meet
again in two weeks and bring our neigh-
bors with us.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing “The time is far spent.” Benediction
by Sister Annie T. Hyde.
JULIA S. WOOLLEY, Sec. pro tem.

	Minutes of Ladies Semi-monthly meeting
held in the 14th ward Assembly hall,
Saturday, October 1, 1898, Counselor E. J.
Stevenson presiding. Opened by singing
“Our God we raise to Thee.” Prayer by
Counselor Webb. Singing “O my Father.”
Minutes of meetings held August 28 and
September 17 were read and approved.
	Sister Stevenson felt to thank God for
the rain, also for the opportunity of meet-
ing with the sisters. Realized that the
spirit of God was present and if we all en-
couraged that spirit we could have a grand
time, for the Lord has said “Where two or
three shall meet together in my name, I
will be in their midst and that to bless
them.” Spoke briefly on the death of our
beloved President Woodruff, said how meek
and humble he always was and exhorted
the sisters to follow his example. Did not
know the reason President Horne was ab-
sent, perhaps it was due to the inclemency
of the weather, hoped she was not sick.
Gave the meeting into the hands of the
sisters.
	Sister Jane James praised the Lord that
she had seen the Prophet Joseph Smith and
that he had blest her. Spoke also of the
kindness shown to her by Sister Emma
Smith, wife of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Desired to be humble as a little child, that
she might be worthy to enter one of the
mansions that the Lord had prepared.


Sister Webb said we were living in
momentous times, exhorted the sisters to
live so that we might avoid the sins and
evils that surround us and prayed that the
young people might be preserved from the
snares that beset them. Testified that the
Relief Society had been a great blessing to
her.
	Sister Parkes of Idaho, though a com-
parative stranger in our midst could testify
to the truth of the work. She was well
acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Remembered the time the Relief Society
was organized, heard the prophet say if
the sisters would be faithful that the angels
would visit them. Told them that the
Lord was no respector of persons, but if
they would always live near to Him He
would grant their desires. She had proven
his words true and prayed that she might
always be among the faithful workers of the
Relief Society.
	Sister Longmore rejoiced in the work and
hoped to prove faithful to the end.
	Sister Rossiter said the Lord had be-
stowed upon her many blessings and she
desired to spend her life in His service.
Spoke of the time when she received the
Gospel, desired to do all she could for her
dead relatives.
	Sister Julia Golightly was trying to
overcome her weaknesses that she might
gain the approval of her Heavenly Father.
	Sister Mary P. Silver spoke of the joy
she felt in the everlasting Gospel, she had
left all for it and the Lord had blest her
abundantly.
	Sister Eliza Rossiter was thankful for
the Gospel, knew it was true and hoped to
prove faithful to the end.
	Sister Alder said she had received many
blessings from her Heavenly Father, had
also many trials, yet she tried not to com-
plain. She often wondered what we should
do without the Gospel, we should surely
faint by the wayside. “Sisters let us serve
the Lord through evil and through good
report and ever hold on to the iron rod.”
Encouraged the sisters to trust in the Lord
and not think too much of their sorrows,
to remember the Lord is on our side all the
time.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing “The God we adore.” Benediction by
Hannah M. Wright.
