PRESIDENT SEWALL’S ADDRESS.
	The stirring events of the last six months
have been so emphasized on public opinion
that they seem to have occupied the entire
year. The din of war is wont so to deafen
the public ear that the quiet activities of a
war period are to it inaudible. There can
have been no time when war did not involve
the women of countries engaged in it; for
even before women had any participation in
public affairs the wars that drew men from
their homes increased the importance of wo-
men in private affairs as their industrial
activity was augmented perforce by the very
events which made the greatest drafts upon
their hearts. At no period of stress in our
country’s history have the public services
of American women in various fields been
so conspicuous as during the last six
months. The services of Miss Helen
Gould in pecuniary gifts, or Clara Barton
with the sign of the Red Cross, of the hun-
dreds of nurses who have shunned no
danger of climate and no discomfort of
camp, of the women war correspondents
who, let it be hoped, have contributed no
yellow pages to the journals of the day,
only conspicuously illustrate the various
ways in which hundreds of thousands of
women have, on a smaller scale, contributed
to their country’s strength.
	While it was still hoped that war might
be averted the National Council responding
to the well known desire of President Mc-
Kinley, added to the numerous petitions
that went out from brave and loyal
men and women from all over the country,
its petition representing the desire of over
1,000,000 women, to avoid war if possible.
That no one desired to avert the catastrophe
more than President McKinley his whole
course of conduct showed; that he was
grateful to those who attempted to hold the
public mind calm and to afford time for dip-
lomatic intervention, his response to such
petitions amply proves. It may well be
believed that from the day war was declared
those who have tried in whatever circle
they were, to avert it were most fervently
grateful for the magnanimity constantly
shown by our chief executive, the human-
ity manifested by our generals and the hero-
ism demonstrated on land and sea by our
countrymen.
THREE NEW COMMITTEES.
	Three most important standing commit-
tees have been added during the last year to
our groups of committee workers. The
committee on social peace and international
arbitration, with the Countess Cora Slo-
comb di Brazzi at its head. The sudden
call to arms but served to emphasize the
need of the committee and to show that
such a committee should long ago have
been organized and been active in the diffu-

[Column 2]
sion of its doctrines. The committee on
social purity, with Rev. Anna Garlin
Spencer at its head. The formation of
this committee is a declaration that the
National Council of Women of the United
States is committed to that doctrine of the
common moral standard for men and wo-
men so forcibly expressed in the well known
phrase, “A white life for two.” The
committee on domestic relations under the
law, whose chairman is Miss Octavia Wil-
liams Bates of Detroit. It has for its
specific work such a codification of the laws
bearing upon domestic life as will show the
contradiction, existing among our states and
the manner in which these contradictions
work injustice to individuals and evil to
the community.
	During the year but one national organ-
zation of women has entered the council
ranks—the Rathbone Sisters—the second of
the great orders that have come in, the
Ladies of the Maccabees being the other
one.
	The growth through the multiplication
of local councils is not less important. The
largest formed during the year is that at
New Orleans, which already includes in its
membership 114 local organizations. Suc-
cessful initiative has been taken in organiz-
ing a local council in New York City.
	Among the organizations that for the first
time send fraternal delegates to our sessions
are the Congress of Mothers and the George
Washington Memorial Association.
	During the last year the fraternal rela-
tions with Canada, which have from the
beginning of council work been fostered in
the two countries, have been emphasized.
WOMEN AND WAR.
	In these days we are continually hear-
ing of the new role which the United States
is to play among the nations of the earth
We are told that it will no longer do for
the United States to hold itself in isolation
from the rest of the world: that whether
it wishes it or not the nation is destined to
assume a place which will compel all other-
nations to reckon with it in the prosecu-
tion of any projects they may devise. Those
of us who truly believe that a perfect social
peace would make either a civil or a foreign
war impossible must still rejoice in every
good that seems to have resulted from the
recent war. If by it our country shall
be lifted out of a selfish materialism which
has engrossed it into a sense of its perman-
ent relationship with all the other nations
of the earth this must be counted a great
good. But we believe it is its happy des-
tiny to prove its relationship to the nations
of the world and its consciousness of its
kinship, not by becoming a terror because
of its invincible navy, invulnerable ships
and unmatched soldiery, but rather be-
cause of its sense of human equality, which
is the inevitable outcome of a true sense of
human kinship.
	Our country has been isolated by its
size and by the satisfaction which it derived
from contemplating its own dimensions.
Its sense of international relationship will
be quickened by a sense of the insignificance
of size when disconnected from contents
and quality. Of this new sense of kinship
among the nations, which indisputably
has been quickened into consciousness by
the recent war, the council was a forerun-
ner. Through the International Council of
Women this sense of relationship among
the nations has already assumed organic


form, and, as is well known, organic form
is essential to conscious and responsible
activity.


