EDITORIAL NOTES.

	At the quarterly conference of the Box
Elder Stake of Zion held on Sunday and
Monday, the 13th and 14th of November,
President Lorenzo Snow being present the
officers of the Relief Society of that Stake
were chosen to fill the vacancy caused by
the demise of the president, Sister Olivia
Widerborg, and the resignation of her
counselors. The officers elected were Sus-
anna P. Booth, president; Emelia D. Mad-
sen and Louisa Peters, counselors; secretary
and treasurer, names not yet known.
	On Saturday, November 6, President
Ann C. Woodbury of St. George Stake,
with her counselors, Emma Morris and
Jane T. Bleak, visited Gunlock ward and
held a meeting with the Relief Society, a
very good spirit was manifest. Although
at that time there had been no storms in
St. George, Sister Woodbury says they
were surprised on their return from Gun-
lock to see the shrubs in the Temple grounds
covered with ice, “the spray having frozen
on them, it was an unusual sight.”
	A very pleasant reception was given on
Saturday, November 12, by Mrs. W. W.
Riter and Mrs. C. H. Wells at Mrs. Riter’s
residence, from two to five p. m. The
handsome parlors were beautifully decora-
ted with autumn leaves, flowers, potted
plants etc., chrysanthemums in abundance
and delightful music by a string band. Mrs.
Riter and Mrs. Wells received together.
Guests came and went during the entire
afternoon and all who wished were served

[Column 2]
with tea, coffee, wafers and candy by
charming young ladies in airy costumes
who were delighted to do the honors. It
was a brilliant affair and a perfect success,
judging from the animated conversation and
the lingering of groups chatting in corners.
	Ex-Qeuen Liluokalani visited Salt Lake
on Saturday, Nov. 26, en route for Wash-
ington, remaining only one day. The
Hawaiians paid her great respect, meeting
her at the depot and showing her every
courtesy possible. Through the kindness
of Sister Emily G. Cluff, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
and the writer were favored with an intro-
duction and the great pleasure of convers-
ing with her for a short time. The late
queen is very affable and interesting, fond
of poetry and literature, has written books
and translated from other languages. She
is a patron of the Historical Society of
Polynesia. She sings pathetically and on
the occasion of our interview she sang a
favorite ballad “Aloha oe,” and played her
own accompaniment on the piano. She en-
tertains a high regard for our people, and
was interested in all we are doing especial-
ly in the work of women. She referred to
woman’s work in general and spoke of hav-
ing attended the Mothers’ Congress in
Washington and other conventions of wo-
men.
	On Wednesday November 23, the Gardo
House, famous for many brilliant gather-
ings, was opened by its present occupants,
Mr. and Mrs A.W. McCune also famous en-
tertainers, to about two hundred invited
guests, most of them Temple workers. A
program had been arranged and opened
with sacred music by the Temple choir
led by Prof. C. J. Thomas. Prayer was
offered by Bishop George H. Taylor, and
after some rich music by the sweet singers
of Israel, President Lorenzo Snow made the
opening address in his usual dignified and
impressive manner. Other brief speeches
were made interspersed with musical selec-
tions and a few choice recitations The
guests were invited to the elegant, large
dining hall where a tempting repast was
waiting, the program being continued
meanwhile. After the numerous company
had all been served there were a few more
speeches by brethren and one by President
Zina D. H. Young, and as the guests were
dispersing the Doxology was sung and
Brother Claridge of Arizona, the father
of Sister McCune, pronounced the benedic-
tion. The guests were profuse in their
expressions of appreciation of the pleasant
time given them by the amiable host and
hostess who seemed solicitous that all
should enjoy themselves, and the affair was
certainly a great success socially and spirit-
ually.


