BRILLIANT COMPANY.
	The luncheon and reception tendered by
the local Council of Jewish Women to the
visiting delegates of the National Coun-
cil of Women at the Metropolitan club on
Oct. 25, was a most brilliant entertainment.
It is seldom that one cit[-] has the pleasure
of entertaining so many distinguished wo-
men as are sojourning in the Gate City.
The spacious hall which was well adapted
for the purpose of entertaining on a grand
scale, was magnificent with myriads of
electric lights and flowers, and exquisite
confections in costuming, scintillating with
gems, vied with natural fiowers in the
adorning of these women, who although
they dive deep into reforms advanced to
elevate humanity and raise the standard of
citizenship, do not despise the witchery of
becoming apparel the glitter of jewels and
perfume of flowers.
	For a short time the receiving matrons,
Mrs Belle A. Polack, Mrs. Simon Adamsky,
and Mrs. Moritz Meyer, stood in the hall.
Only there was nothing about it to suggest
a hall, as it had been em[-]owered with ex-
otics so that it might easily have been im-
agined a bower in some tropical isle.
Passing thence to the long dining room the
guests perceived that the floral decorations
had been managed with artistic restraint.
The tables were arranged in a geometrical
design and beautifully decorated with a rich
display of white and yellow chrysanthe-
mums. At the head of the banquet board
the five guests of honor sat. Mrs. Polack,
president of the local Council of Jewish
Women, in the center. On her right was
seated Mrs. Hannah G. Solomon of Chica-
go, on her left Mrs. May Wright Sewall of
Indianapolis. Miss Susan B. Anthony sat
next to Mrs. Solomon and Mrs. Draper
Smith was seated next to Mrs. Sewall.
	The out of-town guests who occupied
spaces about the board were: Susan B. An-
thony, Mrs. Hannah Solomon of Chicago,
Mrs. Simon of Kansas City, Mo., Mrs.
Rosenwasser of Cleveland, Mrs. Iesner of
Champaign, Ill., Mrs. Foster, Mrs. Kate
Barrett of Washington, D. C., Mrs. Emme-
line B. Wells, Mrs. M. Y. Dougall of Salt
Lake City, Mrs. Henry Hirsch of Des
Moines. Mrs Charles Mayer, Miss Mayer
of Lincoln, Mrs. Oberfelder of Sidney, Mrs.
Hirshland of Des Moines, Mrs. Lipals, Mrs.
Simon, Mrs. Ryder of Kansas City, Mrs.
Sewall of Indianapolis, Mrs Barbe of Chi-
cago, Mrs. Thershein, Mrs. Schulman, Mrs.
Fuhrman of Seattle, Mrs. Hollister of De-
troit, Mrs. Richards of Champaign, Mrs.
Moog, Mrs. Anna Shaw of Philadelphia, Mrs.
Frances Beauchamp of Lexington, Ky., Mrs.
Louise B. Robbins of Adrian, Mich., Mrs. L.
S. Lieberman, Mrs. Simon of Kansas City,
Miss Octave Williams Bates of Detroit, Mrs.
Newberry Adams of Dubuque.
GREETINGS TO THE GUESTS.
	In opening the post-prandial exercises
Mrs. Clara Rosewater, toastmistress, greet-
ed the guests, saying: "At no time in the
history of Omaha have so many brilliant
and talented women been with us. I there-
fore think it fitting that the session of the
Council of Jewish Women close with an ex-
pression of goodwill and fraternal feeling."

[Column 2]
She called the first toast of the afternoon,
"Welcome."
	Mrs. Belle Polack responded to this toast
in a happy manner, extending the most
cordial welcome to all.
	Mrs. Rosewater then said: "During the
last few years woman has steadily moved
on. She has advanced from the seclusion
of the past. The club is largely responsi-
ble for this."
	"What Clubbing has Done for Women"
was responded to by Mrs. H. F. Smith,
