A TRIBUTE TO AUNT MELISSA.

	Dear Aunt Melissa was the eldest daughter
of Cornelius P. and Permelia Darrow Lott.
Our grandparents were born in the state of
New York and were both of the old Rev-
olutionary ancestors who fought in battle
and held positions of trust in the Govern-
ment during its seven years struggle for
American independence. They were the
only ones of either family to join the
Church. Grandpa came of a fine old Dutch
family, and grandma of the early Puritan
stock. Grandpa moved to Pennsylvania
prior to his marriage, as did also the Dar-
row family. Aunt Melissa was born in
that state in Luzern Co., on the 9th of
February, 1823.
	People who knew her say she was a
beautiful, refined, intelligent girl; those
who knew her best loved her most. At
the age of nineteen years she was married
to the Prophet Joseph Smith and lived with
his wife Emma (whom she dearly loved) in
the “Nauvoo Mansion” until after the
prophet’s martyrdom. She then returned
to her father’s home, shared all the hard-
ships of the Latter-day Saints in their vari-
ed travels from state to state, suffering-
p[-]ivations of every name and nature un-
complainingly. Being the eldest of a fam-
ly of eleven children and her mother being
of a delicate organization her duties were
necessarily great, her patience often tried
and her physical cares many, yet she was
ever gentle, kind and cheerful under the
most trying circumstances. She came to
Utah with her parents in 1848 and married
Ira Willis with a perfect understanding that
she would be the prophet's wife in the
Great Beyond.
	Aunt Melissa had born to her seven chil-
dren, four sons and three daughters. Her
husband, two sons and two daughters pre-
ceded her to the other side. She left two
sons, one daughter, a host of grandchildren,
one sister, two brothers and many loved
relatives and friends who will miss her all
the time, for she was an exceptional wo-


man; one of great strength of character,
bright perception, pure, just, generous
principles. Her advice and example were
always for good, her every act displayed
the unselfish, noble womanhood; we all re-
garded her as one of nature’s grandest type
of heroines. From earliest infancy her life
has been one of sacrifice, privation, mental
and physical suffering, yet when others
complain we have heard her say many
times, “No I do not wish my life-trials
other than they are, ’tis best for God de-
signed it so or it would not be.” The
prophet promised her that in taking the
step with him in her girlhood “she should
be the savior of her father’s household.”
We all expect and have faith that this will
be fulfilled.
	Aunt was a true, consistent Latter-day
Saint, her last years were spent in comfort-
ing the aged and lonely and ministering to
the sick and afflicted. She was up to with-
in a few months of her death an active,
earnest worker in the Relief Society at Lehi,
Utah Co., and we believe one of the presid-
ing officers. She had done a great deal of
Temple work, made Temple suits, laid out
the dead and aided in every possible way
God’s children.
	To her immediate family she was a just,
loving, loyal, capable mother, sister and
friend, a peacemaker in very deed. Filled
with sterling integrity she died firm in the
faith of a glorious resurrection. She was
buried on the 15th of July, (in her seventy-
fifth year) in the Salt Lake cemetery on
the lot where her parents, husband and
children are sleeping. 
	God grant we may follow in the path she
has left behind, keep firm in the faith of
Christ’s Gospel, thereby prove worthy to
meet her on the other shore when our time
shall come to go.
			Affectionately
				J. P. M. FARNSWORTH,
					139 Brigham Street.
	Oct. 28, 1898.


