SAVE THE MEN.

	Elizabeth Stuart Phelps thus calls upon
the country to “cut the blood-red tape to
tatters,” and save the men who are to re-
turn from Porto Rico from transport horrors.
From her home in Gloucester, August 30,
under the title of “Transport Disgrace,”
she protests against permitting the 5,000
United States soldiers, who still remain at
Porto Rico, to be brought home under the
conditions which have prevailed on board
the transports which have borne the sol-
diers from Cuba. Mrs. Phelps says:
	“An immense current of horror is passing
through this astonished land. We are
wasting time and vitality enough to save
hundreds of lives in the sheer emotion
caused by the inhuman blunders under
which the heroes of this war are perishing.
Let us stop shrieking and get to the rescue.
Mere outcries will not help the dying. In-
vestigation will not feed the starved dead.
Blaming the Secretary of War will not heal
the heartbroken living. This is not the
time to investigate, but to act. Five thou-
sand men still remain to be sent home at
once by a transport system to whose awful
mercies the societies which punish cruelty
would not allow hogs or sheep to be en-
trusted.
	“What is to prevent the same atrocities
from happening on every ship? They can
and must be stopped.
	“If Government cannot take care of its
heroes, the people can. I suggest that the
governors of states, the Red Cross, the
Volunteer Aids, or any organization pos-
sessing suitable positions, sympathy, energy
and resources offer their services by tele-
graph to the President for the definite pur-
pose of properly providing for the remain-
der of our soldiers about to embark. I do
not believe that such offers would be re-
pulsed, but on the contrary, that they
would be welcome if put into suitable
shape. The national disgrace is too deep
to ignore. The people of the United
States will not bear much more. There is
not an hour to lose. There is mercy
enough, money enough, energy enough to


put every transport, in proper condition
within a week, and bring every hero home
in decency and comfort.
	“A dozen men of the Volunteer Aid, a
dozen women of the Red Cross, a few peer-
less and firm governors of states would
bring order out of this pitiful chaos in a
very few days. Cut the blood-red tape to
tatters! Storm the War Department—not
with abuse, but with offers to aid! Put
delegates of mercy on every transport—if
necessary charter our own transports—but
save the men!
