THE CITY PARK.

	How shall I express my gratitude upon
learning that the ground once occupied by
our Fort is now to become a city park?
And I am sure it could not be put to a bet-
ter use. It is a sacred spot, especially so to
the pioneers who arrived here in 1847, my-
self being one of them. It was a charming
sight to behold, our home, although built
of logs in the form of a fort—the doors in-
side and only a porthole outside to watch
the Indians. A portion was built by the
first pioneers which would be finished by
the second which was our company, the
Battalion boys had arrived about the same
time. We brought grain and implements
for farming. The first company arrived
July 24, and our company came two months
later, it was on September 1. We met the
first company at Pacifiic springs, (going
back) so called because it was the first
spring which ran toward the Pacific ocean.
Captain Wallace and a few of his company
arrived on the 12th of September; but in
climbing these mountains the teams were
greatly exhausted and came in a few days
later. Our family arrived on the 12th at
4 p.m. And how happy to find a table
ready for us to sit down and eat our dinner
in a house once more, after traveling and
eating out of doors for four months.
	Here we found Ellen Kimball and Clara
Young and her mother, Sister Harriet
Young, who came with the first company
and had a home in a log room, a chimney
in the corner, a door, and a porthole for a
window, but soon after had a little window
cut near the door and felt it was a quiet,
good resting place, for near by just outside
of the Fort was a deep, cold spring of water
which was very acceptable; besides there
was a creek coming from the mountains.
	Brother Wallace and family, Brother
Pierce and family, Brother Smithies and
family were our neighbors, occupying one
corner, the northeast, of the Fort, and
many others.
	But the Indians’ home seemed to be out
at the warm springs. They came occasion-
ally asking for “teacup-an-a-muck,” that
is “give me something to eat.” We never
failed to grant their request, this made
friends of them, and since we had spoiled
their hunting-ground our cattle would
make amends again. We had very pleas-
ant fall weather for a long time, and when
the snow came it would last only three
days and it would all be gone.
	Now excuse me if I tell you about an ox
in our company, the largest one, I think,
and yet the most poor and bony animal I
ever saw; but now he had nothing to do
but eat and grow fat, and in six weeks he
was killed for beef. It was the most ten-
der and sweet meat I ever ate.   
	I must not forget to tell you that Sister

[Column 2]
Eliza R. Snow was Clara D. Young’s com-
panion, the same as I was to Ellen S. Kim-
ball, and as we were neighbors we felt to
share each others joys and sorrows as the
case might be. We looked upon Sister
Eliza as the presiding officer, especially at
our meetings, for we held prayer meetings
occasionally, I think about once a week,
besides our Sunday meetings at the Bowery.
We felt the need of our Heavenly Father’s
care and also felt that we had much to be
thankful for.
	Did not we feel that our prayers were
heard and answered when the seagulls
came and devoured the crickets? For they
would gorge themselves, then throw up
and eat again, so determined to sweep them
off the land. How wonderful to behold!
I can never forget the sight.
	The grasshoppers, too, came and went
many times, but the last time they came on
Sunday and as we came out of meeting we
saw the ground covered with leaves. “How
is this?” said I. “Don’t you see the trees
full of grasshoppers?” said one to me.
Sure enough, and they only stayed twenty-
four hours, for about noon the next day
they all arose and went towards the lake.
But what a sight they left behind! All
our herbs, catnip, garden sage, wormwood,
tansy, etc., were utterly gone. Not only
so, but every young vegetable such as cab-
bage, turnips, and radishes were gone as
well. But a few days afterwards we found
at the lake the grasshoppers drowned, and
how astonished to see so many winrows
on and near the shore. No wonder they had
destroyed so much for there were so many
of them, swept into the lake by a strong
wind, as you could see. This shows what
the Lord can and will do for those who love
and serve Him in spirit and in truth; for
He seeketh such to worship Him.
	August 17, 1898.		M. E. K.


Miss Clara Barton continues to hold up
the humanitarian side of our relations to
Cuba with noble persistence for a woman
who now nears her three score and ten.
She has gone to Havanna where she will
feed the hungry, clothe the clotheless, care
for the sick and soap the soapless with her
usual vigor and system and thoroughness
and practical good sense. She knows when
it is a good rule to cut through rules, and
she cuts courageously for the good of all
concerned. It is government departmental
system that has caused so much suffering
among the men near Santiago, where the
Red Cross could not readily reach them.
A chaplain of a Michigan regiment wrote
home: “You cannot imagine anything
more hideously horrible than our hospital
system; piles of stores at some places, while
here we have no tents, no cots, no food, no
medicine, no stimulants, and men fading
away all about us. One doctor cried and
sobbed while telling the colonel about the
conditions and his inability to cut the red
tape of the ‘system’ and get the most sim-
ple remedies for men dying under his hands.
it is over a month now that I have been
lying on the ground out of doors, having
passed through a siege of yellow fever
meanwhile. I am splendidly well now,
thank God, and able to do all the duties
falling to me.”—Woman’s Journal.
	Miss Sophronisba Breckinridge, of Ken-
tucky, has just been made a Fellow
in the department of physical science in the
University of Chicago.


