GREAT EVENTS TRANSPIRING.

	The many events of national interest that
have crowded into this last summer make
one almost stand aghast at the very thought,
and when contemplating their significance
and far-reaching results are completely
overwhelming even to men and women ac-
customed to grasp great questions. Some
of these events are not only important to
this nation but are stirring the whole world.
	One very unlooked for proposition is that
from the Czar of Russia, an invitation to all
the countries that have representatives in
St. Petersburg to take part in the discus-
sion of methods to secure peace that would
be desirable to all peoples, and to check the
“progressive development of armaments.”
Surely the burdens and horrors of war are
terrible to all. The late war with Spain
has awakened a wide-spread sentiment in
favor of universal peace and the settlement
of all differences great and small by arbi-
tration or some pacific measures. It does
seem strange that the proposal for a cessa-
tion from all hostilities and wars between
the nations should come from Russia. The
whole world it is said applauds the Czar’s
purpose and hopes for good results. In
some quarters the fact is attributed to the
influence of the good and great Queen Vic-
toria, the Czar, however, is only the nephew
of the Princess of Wales and the husband
of the queen’s granddaughter. This is, of
course purely speculative. Other influences
may be exerting themselves in favor of a
peace movement, in fact a sentiment of that
kind has been widely promulgated by the
International Universal Peace Society,
which has been holding conferences abroad
in Europe for some years past.
	The many terrible occurrences on land
and on sea besides the war which has oc-
cupied more especially the attention of our
own country to the exclusion of other mat-
ters, speak to the world in unmistakable
terms of the fulfillment of prophecy in the
last dispensation of the fulness of times.
	The recent storm that has been so disas-
trous in the destruction of life on the coast
of Barbadoes and by which it is believed
50,000 people are rendered homeless,should
awaken thought among our women at least
to the importance of being prepared for
famine. Now when the harvest has been
the most bountiful for years is surely the
time to secure grain and store it up against
the day of need of which we have talked so
much and which is certainly coming. It is
well to be wise virgins and prepared for the


great events which are according to the
signs of the times now fast approaching.
	Earthquakes in divers places, and the sea
heaving beyond its bounds, and now we
hear of the great eruption of Mt. Vesuvius,
all these things fill men and women with
fear, according to the scriptures; only the
spirit of God in the hearts and His power
made manifest through His priesthood will
help even those who are trying to live ex-
emplary lives to stand the trials that seem
just upon the inhabitants of the world.
Rapidly the days are approaching when
only in Zion and Jerusalem will there be
safety.

	The November election is not far off and
it is certainly one of the most important
elections in the history of Utah. The elective
franchise given to the women of the State
ought to mean something more than a
mere plaything to be used or thrown aside,
it should stand for sacred privileges, for the
betterment of all classes, for reforms in all
places, for better conditions in all industrial
pursuits and the establishment, fostering
and maintenance of such industries as shall
give employment to all wage-earners, the
women and children as well as men. And
in connection with this the silk industry
which comes nearest to the home, and near-
est to the hearts of the women of this State
must not be forgotten. By all means the
women voters should acquaint themselves
with this subject and if they would they
would soon discern that the State through
its officers in its several departments should
understand that the women’s vote will be
given to the men and women who will
help lift the burden of taxation, and to those
who will introduce such measures as will
bring work for the idle and means into the
home, and whatever benefits the homes of
the people benefits the State. According to
the words of Brigham Young, the late
president and founder of Utah, there is no
industry so well calculated to bring wealth
to Utah as the silk industry, and there is
every facility here for its production. We
as a people are aware that there is heavy
indebtedness to be met, why not establish
this industry to assist in paying off the
debts? There are plenty of idle hands that
should be given work. Think of this sub-
ject, there have been object lessons given
you. The silk curtains made here for the
exhibition at the World’s Fair in 1893 now
on exhibition in Omaha, are said by con-
noisseurs to be fit to grace a Paris salon.
	The October first number of the “Ex-
ponent” will contain a number of articles on
the silk industry, its past, present and
future in Utah, from those practically en-
gaged in the work and from those who have
had experience in looking after its interests
connected with the association, and have
made a point of studying the subject thor-
oughly. Extra copies will be issued for dis-
tribution.


