	PRESIDENT'S FAREWELL ADDRESS.

	It seems only a short time ago that I had
the honor conferred upon me of being
elected president of the U. W. P. club
	In retrospective resume many excellent
articles of poetry and prose rise on my horo-
scope, shimmering with brilliant gems of
thought which have gladdened the hearts
and enriched the minds of our members.
	In November our hospitable member,
Mrs.Clarence M. Bradley, entertained us at
her pleasant home where we listened to
Thanksgiving stories of ye olden times and
a pretty original one by Mrs. E. B. Wells,
the evening winding up in a blaze of glory,
eating golden pumpkin pie and sipping the
nectar of the orient, delicious coffee.
	In December we wandered far in thought
journeying over to old, old China, taking a
bird’s eye view of these ancient and
unprogressive people with queues and queer
mode of life religious and moral; who bit-
terly resist any innovation of modern ways
and .ideas. But the fiat had gone forth and

[Column 2]
China too must cast her old traditions upon
the highway to be crushed under the wheels
of the 19th century car of progress filled
with new ideas. The isles of the sea can-
not escape the keen eye of adventure and
they too must come into broader walks of
intelligence. The interesting article on
Polynesia was a report of actual experiences
and eye witness of pictures of the isles of
the Pacific ocean as seen by the reader’s
husband in his great trip around the world.
This and other papers was illustrated by
specimens and trophies from the island and
the far off Indies gathered while in those
lands.
	In January in the very pleasant room in
which we are now assembled a motion was
made and carried that the club join the
General Federation of Clubs. We then
took a trip in our mind's eye to Germany
and looked over her picturesqe country and
peeped into the lives of many of the “Nota-
ble men and women” of that land.
	That night a deep laid and mysterious
conspiracy was completed which ended in
something of a tempest, but loving friends
tried and true held steadfast on their way
and on Feb. 26 a large company assembled
at Dr. E. R. Shipp’s residence where an
ovation was given Mrs. E. B. Wells as a
surprise. It was in honor of the coming
out of her sweet book of poems styled
“Musings and Memories.”
	The crowning expression of our appre-
ciation of her book was the presentation of
our book to her. In this book each leaf re-
flected personally the love and good wishes
of a friend, in original or selected prose or
poetry, with somewhere on the leaf a quo-
tation from her book and also adorned with
beautiful hand painted flowers, expressing
the feelings and tastes of the giver of the
leaf. There are nearly one hundred leaves
in the book, making an unique and costly 
memento of the birth of her brain-child and
also of the seventieth year of her life.
	In March the club had the rare honor to
entertain the world renowned author, F.
Marion Crawford, at a reception they gave
March 22, at the residence of Hon. Spencer
Clawson, the Bee Hive House, Miss Claire,
the young and pretty hostess, making
everything pleasant and beautiful for the
occasion.
	 On March 6 the club met instead of Feb-
ruary 28, when we enjoyed a word pano-
rama of France and were highly entertained 
with short histories of some of her famous
men and women.
	March 31 our program consisted of an in-
teresting paper on Portugal and an eloquent
plea for “Cuba Libre.”
	In April, the month of sunshine and
showers “so full of sweet variety,” the life
and arduous labors of our spirit friend Miss
Frances E. Willard was ably presented and
discussed or new light added to as occurred
to the minds of the members. Also an im-
pressive paper recounting the life of the
brave Zola and a scathing, prophetic poem
styled Hispania.
	May 31 we heard of the Royal Family 
of Spain. Spain is fast going into oblivion
and we cannot weep, for her loss of power
is the gain of every released subject. With-
out a pang we say “au revoir” Spain.
	The month of June, beautiful month of
roses and every sweet perfume, seems as
barren of club history as the Desert of 
Sahara so far as I can find, and come to re-
member we had no meeting that month
but adjourned and went to the concert in
the Tabernacle. But a reception commit

[Column 3]
tee met the ladies from the north who were
on their way to Denver to the General
Federation and gave them a trolley ride and
otherwise entertained them while birds of
passage.
	In July your president received a letter to
the club from Second Vice-President Helen
V. Kimball dated July 8, Alvalon, Catalina
Island, California, Hotel Metropole. How
delightful it would be if the club could
take an outing to Catalina Island and look
through the glass bottomed boat at the
beauties and wonders of the sea.
	On July 30, the regular club day,we had
a most instructive paper on the origin,
work and purpose of the Red Cross Society,
and one on Modern Warfare.
	August 8 was made a most auspicious
and long to be remembered day to your presi-
dent by the members tendering her a most
happy surprise. The most kindly solici-
tude was expressed for her welfare as she
silently wends her way down the shady
side of life, having just left behind her the
59th milestone. A beautiful medalion 
picture of Queen Louise among her people,
together with many most beautiful flowers
were presented to her, which strongly im-
pressed her that life is still sweet amidst the
love of friends and lovely flowers, and that
there is much time left to smooth the pil-
low of sorrow and pain and to comfort the
hearts of the unfortunate.
	No club meeting was held this month an
adjournment having been decided upon un-
til September 30.
	The club members had decided to take an
outing to Saltair in August, but the gods of
Neptune willed differently and we went in
September, the very last day of the season.
There are often two good opportunities, the
first and the last, we at least had a good
one, a perfect day. The few members who
were in town went and lunched together
and had the sweet pleasure of hearing read
a word-bejewelled, poetic phantasy called
“Beautiful Saltair,” written for the club by
our secretary, Mrs. M. A. Lambert.
	On September 30, was rendered an ex-
tremely interesting paper on the sad life
and tragic death of Empress Elizabeth of
Austria. Her life is a most striking illu-
stration that neither wealth nor position can
of itself give happiness.
	Tonight, October 31, 1898, I wish to ex-
press in my farewell to you my heartfelt
thanks for the universal kindness and help-
fulness shown me during the year past by
every member of the club, and I thank you
most cordially for the pleasure and educa-
tion which as president I have been the
happy recipient.
