NATIONAL WOMAN’S RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The October conference of the General
Conference of the National Woman’s Re-
lief Society was held in the Assembly Hall
it in this city, October 5, 1898, commencing

[Column 2]
at 10 a. m., President Zina D. H. Young
presiding. Meeting opened with singing
“Now let us rejoice.” Prayer by President
Jane S. Richards Singing “How firm a
foundation. Roll called, nineteen Stakes
responded. Minutes of the morning meet-
ing of the April conference read and ap-
proved.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke a few
words of cheer and comfort to the sisters
and bore a strong testimony to the truth of
the Latter-day work, and she said we had
but just commenced our work in this soci-
ety and spoke of the time when the wo-
men of the Church were first organized and
the progress that bad been made, yet felt
that we had only made a start. She spoke
further upon humility and overcoming by
the power of the testimony of the truth un-
til when we shall be able to sing the song
of the redeemed.
	President Jane S. Richards urged the
sisters to be faithful in attending their
meetings and conferences, thought it both
a duty and a pleasure, referred to the genu-
ne help the society had been to the breth-
ren in their respective wards, felt the sis-
ters did step right out as though they were
Elders in Israel, dwelt most earnestly upon
the grain question, said we needed more
granaries and as we had assisted in so many
places to help build ward houses we ought
to have help to build granaries, quoted
Bishop Hunter on the grain question and
knew he was prompted by the spirit of the
Lord when he urged the sisters to take care
of the wheat, there is no danger of having
too much and the time is sure to come
when it will be needed even if we do have
bounteous harvests. Advised the sisters to
hold their meetings at the time appointed,
the angels might be there waiting. Sister
Richards also spoke upon kindness and for-
giving each other, let us try and bear our
trials and be thankful we have a place with
His people.
	Sister Zina said: “They that, feared the
Lord spoke often one to another and the
Lord hearkened and heard and said they
shall be mine when I make up my jewels.”
Counselor B. W. Smith referred to the
bounteous harvest and the great need of
laying up grain she urged the sisters to
look well after the sick, afflicted and dying
—when they pass away see that everything
is done properly, and teach purity, truthful-
ness, virtue and industry, don’t go outside
of your income, don’t go into debt. It
will not be long before we who are advanc-
ing in years will meet our loved ones and
enter into joy. “I have great joy in my
labors in the Temple, and sisters prepare
yourselves to work for your dead, may
you be inspired to do this.”
	President F. A Hammond represented
San Juan in the absence of his wife, the
president. The wheat question he thought
seemed to be the text, he thought it was
the proper subject for the time—bread is
the staff of life, the sisters in our Stake are
doing well with the wheat and when it is
not available are storing flour; this year the
earth smiles and responds beautifully to the
husbandsman, out of one crop of dry farm-
ing which seeded itself largely himself and
sons had raised 1900 bushels. The speaker
also alluded to the franchise and urged wo-
men to vote for good men and women who
will stand for the home, for virtue and
holiness, praised the sisters of that Stake for
their diligence and good works and in going
to their conferences when sometimes they

[Column 3]
had to travel fifty miles some of them to at-
tend. President Hammond spoke for the
“Woman’s Exponent,” said it ought to be
better sustained, felt every president and
every teacher in the society should take it
and read it, he enjoyed reading it and al-
ways had, knew people plead not being able
but he did not believe there was a woman
there who could not afford to take it, only
one dollar a year, this, he continued, is the
grandest and strongest organization we
have in these valleys, and let us sustain it
as we should.
	Brother John Beck thanked Sister Zina,
the president, for inviting him to speak.
in his remarks, after encouraging the sis-
ters in their good work, he said that it
seemed to him that the time had come when
the daughters of Eve were so that they were
doing as much as the sons of Adam, and he
thought that the marriage question was one
that women should settle. Made some
suggestions about the grain and the build-
ing of elevators in every Stake of Zion.
	Sister Orms spoke for Pocatello Stake
and the newness of the organization, only a
little over two months, knew they had a
good people, there were faithful sisters in
the society.
	Singing, Doxology. Benediction by
President Hammond.
