PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF.
		“Who soweth go[-]d seed shall surely reap;
		The year grows rich as it groweth old
		And [-]ife's latest sands are its sands of gold.”
	How true this is of the life just gone out
in this world, the life of that great, good and
reverend man, President Wilford Woodruff.
True is it that the last years of his life were
full of golden deeds, that will shine for-
ever—deeds of love, of mercy and of that
abundant charity that never faileth. His
name will go down to remotest ages be-
cause of his great kindness, his gentle ten-
derness and his love of simplicity in all
things that help to make life sweet and
beautiful. He was in all places and at all
times essentially a peacemaker, and the
Savior said, “Blessed are the peacemakers,
for they shall be called the children of God.”
	All the virtues that are most dear and
sacred in the home and in the friendships
and relations of human life among one’s
associates and fellow men characterized the
life of President Woodruff. In this respect
he was greatly honored of the Lord; he had
no enemies, his humility was most remark-
able in a man raised to an exalted position
among his brethren in the Church, and it
drew the affections of the people to him to
a degree unsurpassed in the history of men
in our day. It has been truly said of him
that he was without guile, honest, straight-
forward, industrious, and in fact he was
possessed of all the best qualities that make
men worthy of honor in the world and be-
fore all men. He was not only as Presi-
dent George Q. Cannon described him, a
natural man, but naturally a Latter-day Saint.
For the Gospel he was willing to endure all
things and all hardships  and to promulgate
its truths he traveled by land and by sea
thousands and tens of thousands of miles,
and encountered untold suffering, dangers
and exposure.
	Our readers are most of them familiar
with the excellent traits of their venerable
and dearly beloved President who has just
left us to join the innumerable company of
Saints in the worlds on high, but it seems
only proper to let the whole world know
how grandly he stands out from and above
the men of his time. His departure was so
sudden even after the advanced years of his
long and useful life, that his shadow still 
lingers on our pathway and it is difficult to
realize that we shall see him no more in our
midst in the assemblies of the Saints.

[Column 2]
	Sketches of President Woodruff’s life
have been written by some of our ablest
men, and in our small paper it is impossi-
ble to do justice to the remarkable career,
public and private of one whose days have
been so rich in interesting incidents and so
replete in experiences of an eventful char-
acter.
	President Woodruff is of Puritan
lineage of English descent and was born
March 1, 1807, in Connecticutt in Hartford
Co., in the town of Farmington, now called
Avon; his forefathers were among the first
settlers in Hartford county. He inclined
to be religious from his boyhood but did
not become connected with any of the 
churches until he heard the Gospel of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	On December 29, 1833, he heard
Elders Zera Pulsipher and Elijah Cheeny
preach the Gospel as proclaimed by Joseph
Smith and also read from the Book of Mor-
mon, he was convinced of the truth and
two days afterwards was baptized and con-
firmed by Elder Pulsipher. He shortly
after went to Kirtland and became acquaint-
ed with the Prophet Joseph. On the first
of May the same year he went up to Mis-
souri with Zion’s Camp. January 13, he
started on his first mission without purse or
scrip to preach the Gospel and traveled in
Arkansas, Tennessee and Kentucky. This
was the commencement of his missionary
life. From that time he devoted himself
the greater part of his time to carrying the
Gospel to the nations in our own and fore-
ign lands. While away proclaiming the
Gospel he received word that he had been
chosen by revelation to fill a vacancy in the
Council of the Twelve Apostles, and that
he was to go to Far West, Missouri, and 
prepare to take a mission to England. April
26, 1839, Wilford Woodruff and George A.
Smith were ordained members of the
Quorum of the Twelve Apostles. In Eng-
land in connection with Heber C. Kimball
he performed a wonderful mission which is 
definitely recounted in the history of the
Church. Afterwards he filled several other
missions, and August 28, 1844, was sent
from Nauvoo to preside over the British
mission, and returned early in 1846 just as
the first company of Saints were leaving for
the West.
	Of President Woodruff as a pioneer the
people are familiar, he was one of the first
company and assisted in various ways to
found this now flourishing State, not only
in colonizing and exploring, but in agricul-
tural and horticultural pursuits and was
prominent in public places in the city and
territory and became very eminent in Ec-
clesiastical positions. President Woodruff
labored some years as president of the St.
George Temple, was afterwards made presi-
dent of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles
and at the death of President John Taylor
succeeded him as President of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	President Woodruff was a most inde-
fatigable worker, never resting except
when he could toil no longer. His journal
and correspondence were faithfully kept up
to the very last, and must necessarily be of
the greatest interest to his family and of 
immense value as a matter of history.
	President Wilford Woodruff’s death took
place in the City of San Francisco where he
was spending a few weeks resting from the 
arduous labors of his office and calling, and
which he was enjoying to the utmost. His
wife was with him and also his first coun-

[Column 3]
selor in the presidency of the Church, and 
everything possible was done to save his
precious life that human skill and the best
nursing could accomplish.
	President Woodruff departed this life
after only a brief illness peacefully and ap-
parently without pain, sinking into a child-
like slumber from which he never woke,
but entered into that world of spirits of
which he so often spoke while here, and
where he anticipated so much joy and satis-
faction in meeting with those famous and
worthy men renowned in the Church, with
whom he had labored so many years in
promoting the interests of Zion and carry-
ing the Gospel to the nations of the earth.
There is every reason to believe his recep-
tion would be a glorious and magnificent
one.
INTERESTING INSTRUCTIONS.
	President Woodruff in a signed but un-
dated document wrote this concerning him-
self. 
	“Concerning My Death and Burial—I
wish to say that at my death I wish the
historian of the Church to publish a brief
account of my life, labors and travels, as an
Elder and an Apostle in the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I wish
my body washed clean and clothed in clean
white linen, according to the order of the
Holy Priesthood, and put into a plain, de-
cent coffin, made of native wood, with
plenty of room. I do not wish any black
made use of about my coffin, or about the
vehicle that conveys my body to the grave. 
I do not wish my family or friends to wear
any badge of mourning for me at my funer-
al or afterwards, for if I am true and faith-
ful unto death there will be no necessity
for any one to mourn for me. I have no
directions to give concerning the services of
my funeral, any further than it would 
be pleasing to me for as many of the Presi-
dency and Twelve Apostles who may be
present to speak as may be thought wisdom.
Their speech will be to the living. If the
laws and customs of the spirit world will
permit, I should wish to attend my funeral
myself; but I shall be governed by the 
counsel I receive in the spirit world. I
wish a plain marble slab put at the head of
my grave, with my name and age, and that
I died in the faith of the Gospel of Christ
and in the fellowship of the Saints.
	(Signed) WILFORD WOODRUFF,
President of the Council of the Twelve
	Apostles.”
A WHITE FUNERAL.
	President Woodruff’s funeral may with
all propriety be designated a white funeral.
The services were held in the Tabernacle
in Salt Lake City, which had been beauti-
fully and most artistically draped in white
and prepared for the solemn occasion. The
appearance of the building was such as to 
impress with a reverential feeling every one
who had the privilege of attending the
ceremonies. The floral decorations were
profuse and magnificent and everything
harmonized with the spirit of peace that
brooded over the entire arrangements, and
pervaded the assembly and remained to
soothe the feelings of all, for the entire peo-
ple were bereaved of their great prophet
and leader, and though outwardly all were
calm, yet many hearts bowed in grief with
love and sorrow at the inevitable parting
with one so fondly cherished and beloved.
	An elegant life-sized painting of Presi-


[Column 1]
dent Woodruff—very natural as he appeared
a few years ago—hung in front of the
great organ against the stars and stripes of
the country he loved. Above the picture
were the words, “Being dead yet speaketh,”
the words were illuminated during musical
exercises; the white drapery fastooned about
the organ was in graceful folds and curves;
on each side of the organ were the figures
1847 and large bunches of sagebrush and.
sunflowers further up tops of pine trees; repre-
senting the valley were furze and brush, a
unique and realistic idea of Utah when he
who lay there sleeping entered the valley.
On the right and left were sheaves of
wheat and oats and more floral offerings, a
great bank in pure white. The stands were
draped in white cashmere tied with ribbon,
also the posts and at each end and at the top
of each a lovely bouquet. The folds of
cashmere tied by silk cords and tassels and
other appropriate draping and flowers were
almost beyond description; the coffin was
white and over it was laid a floral tapestry
—inscribed “In loving remembrance of the
children and grandchildren of Phebe Carter
Woodruff and Mary Jackson Woodruff.”
On top of the casket a bank of carnations
and lilies with the word “Father,”—a floral
crown from the Relief Society was placed at
the head, a large circle of cut roses from the
Y. M. M. I. A. with the motto in pure 
white blossoms, “The glory of God is in-
telligence,” a beautiful floral harp from the
choir, a basket of roses and asters from the
Primary Association and many other de-
signs by devoted friends, associations and
bodies of citizens. The entire effect of these
floral tributes was simplicity, harmony and
purity.
	The services commenced at 10:30 by an
organ rendition of a march composed for
the occasion by Prof. J. J. Daynes, and its
effect was most solemn and impressive. The
General Authorities of the Church were
seated in their order in the priesthood, the
opening hymn was given out by President
George Q. Cannon, “Thou dost not weep
to weep alone.” Apostle F. D. Richards
offered a fervent and eloquent prayer.
Elder George D. Pyper and the choir then 
sang the hymn “O my Father Thou that
dwellest.”
	President Joseph F. Smith was the first
speaker, and Mrs. Maggie C. Hull then
sang “The Beautiful City,” assisted by the
Tabernacle choir. Then President Lorenzo
 Snow, Apostle F. D. Richards and Presi-
dent George Q. Cannon each made remarks,
after which the choir sang President Wood-
ruff’s favorite hymn, “God moves in a
mysterious way,” and the closing prayer
was offered by Apostle Brigham Young.
	The funeral cortege was very long and
imposing, bands of music, mounted men
and the National Guard in uniform follow-
ing the train of carriages; thousands of peo-
ple stood on either side of the way to show
their respect for this distinguished man—
the men with heads uncovered, the little
children who loved and honored him united
with the throng of people old and young
who followed the procession to its final
resting place. The Dead March in Saul
and other funeral dirges were played and
the bands all discoursed sweet music by the
way and at the cemetery, where a great con-
course of people were already waiting. The
Harmony Glee Club sang exquisitely the
selection “Not Dead but Sleepeth,” and
Apostle F. M. Lyman offered the dedicatory
prayer.

[Column 2]
	And then the mortal body of this great
prophet, seer and revelator was consigned
to mother earth to await the morning of
the first resurrection when he will again
come forth clothed upon with an immortal
body, eternal and imperishable.
	May the grace of God soften the affliction
to the loving ones bereft, and in contem-
plating his glorious life and exalted character
may they find such consolation as shall,
lead them to follow his eminent example
of truth and righteousness, and thus to be
prepared to dwell with him in the great
hereafter throughout the endless ages of
eternity.
	“Lives of great men all remind us
		We can make our lives sublime,
	And, departing, leave behind us, 
		Footprints on the sands of time.”


