NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN.
	It is known perhaps to most of our read-
ers that some Utah women went to Omaha
to attend the executive sessions of the
National Council of the Women of the
United States. It is not, however, widely
known how important a body the National
Council is consisting of great National
Associations, each of which wields a large

[Column 2]
influence in matters pertaining to the wel-
fare of this great nation.
	Many of our own women who are mem-
bers of the two organizations, the N. W. R.
S. and the Y. L. N. M. I. A., that are
affiliated with the National Council, think it
of little consequence and are hardly suffici-
ently interested to make themselves fami
liar with the standing of the National
Council, but if they could appreciate as
those do who know concerning the matter,
they would rejoice that such opportunities
of enlargement had opened for the women
of these associations, whose work has been
for years given along the lines of uplifting
and awakening thought and activity in all
that tends to the betterment of the condi-
tions of life in the home, in society, in the
state and in the world at large
	“Woman’s hour has struck” there is no
denying that truth. It is everywhere ap-
parent and the time is hastening on when
the women of this inter-mountain region
will be able to prove the great intellectual 
and moral as well as spiritual strength that
has come to them through the forces oper-
ating in their behalf to fulfill the prophecies
that have been made in years gone by with
regard to this chosen land.
	It is the intention of the writer at the
earliest possible opportunity to try to set
forth in an article devoted to the purpose
and merits of the National Council, its bear-
ing upon women, society, reform and all
the great agencies that move the world.
	The Utah women who went to attend the N.
C. W. executive session were Sisters Jane S.
Richards, E. B. Wells, Maria Y. Dougall,
Minnie J. Snow, Susa Young Gates, Joseph-
ine R. West and Margaret A. Caine.
	The first business session opened Monday
morning October 24, at 10 a. m., at which
time after preliminaries, roll call, minutes
and financial statements, questions of im
portance were considered and discussed.
	1.	“Shall the next triennial which is to
be convened in 1899, sit in two houses?”
	2.	“Shall the National Council of Wo-
men of the United States unite in recom-
mending an amendment to the constitution
of the International Council of Women, the
object of which shall be to secure a more
direct representation of the work and inter-
ests of the separate organizations belonging 
to a national council in the International
Council?”
	On these questions those who represented
the two organizations affiliated with the
Council had the opportunity to speak. Mrs.
Jane S. Richards, proxie for the president
of the National Woman’s Relief Society,
and Mrs. E. B. Wells, the delegate, also
Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall, proxie for the
president of the Y. L. N. M. I. A., and
Mrs. Minnie J. Snow, the delegate
	At 3 p. m. Monday afternoon was the
formal opening of the Council.
	Prayer by the Rev. Gerard Andrews and
an address of welcome by Mrs Sawyer,
president of the Woman’s Department of
the Trans-Mississippi International Exposi-
tion; which was one of the best and most
classical addresses we have ever heard, and
the reading of it was like perfect music.
Response by Mrs. May Wright Sewall,
president of the National Council, who
sounded the keynote of the depths of the
Council idea in such a lofty and practical
manner as to awaken every thoughtful wo-
man to activity and call for the unlimited
reserve force in carrying forward the pur-
poses of this magnificent organization. In-

[Column 3]
troduction of presidents and delegates in-
cluding National organizations and Local
councils belonging to the National Coun-
cil, with five minutes response. Mrs. Jane
S. Richards presented in a very sweet,
modest and pleasant manner a brief greet-
ing from the N. W. R. S., and told of some of
the work of the Society. Mrs. Maria Y.
Dougall in a happy and characteristic man-
ner spoke for the young ladies in a few
choice words, rhythmically arranged and
clearly delivered. Utah may well be proud
of her women, both in appearance and the
manner of presenting subjects before an
audience.
	A reception was given the same evening
by the Woman’s Department of the Trans-
Mississippi and International Exposition
which most of the Utah people attended,
all were invited. We noticed Mr. and Mrs.
Dougall and daughter, Mrs. Minnie J. Snow,
Mrs. Susa Young Gates and others. It
was held in the parlors of the Church and
was a very brilliant social affair. The dec-
orations were pink and white roses and
chrysanthemums, refreshments dainty ices
and cakes. Everything was in elegant
style and excellent taste, there was no
over-dressing yet many brilliant costumes 
were worn and jewels flashed here and there
conspicuously.
	Tuesday morning at 9.30 executive ses-
sion, discussion after business on the resolu-
tion considering the care of dependent and
defective children, and whether there should
be a standing committee for that purpose,
also a resolution opposing the plan pursued
by many institutions that breaking up
families by removing the child from the
home and putting additional burdens upon
the community is not the best method, but
if not possible on account of environment
etc. to keep mother and child together, place
children in families instead of public insti-
tutions.
	These resolutions brought out many
thoughts and several able women spoke
with much tender feeling, and it seemed to
be the opinion of the majority that the
question be considered as settled that there
be a standing committee on this subject.
	The afternoon was taken by the lunch-
eon given by the Local Jewish Council, an
account of which will be found in another
column of this issue.
	The evening session was given to frater-
nal delegates with five minutes response
from each and reports of ten minutes from
organizations affiliated with the Council,
after which there were addresses of thirty
minutes on Total Abstinence, Purity and
Woman Suffrage and Society’s Duty to the
Scarlet Woman. This subject was dealt with
by Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, whom our
readers will remember paid us a visit last
year, and who is one of the most magnetic
and fascinating women who has ever graced
a public platform, and is intensely in
earnest upon this subject. Her speech from
first to last was a lofty and sublime appeal
to all women to lift the fallen whenever
and wherever possible and not forget the
blessed Savior’s example when He said,
“Go and sin no more,” and to insist upon
one standard of morality for both sexes.
	Wednesday, October 29, 9.30 a. m., was
occupied by ten minutes reports from or-
ganizations in the Council. The first given
was by Mrs. Minnie J. Snow, delegate of
the Y. L. N. M. I. A., who presented the work
on the highest intellectual and spiritual
plane, and gave to the theme her own lofty


and exalted word picture, bringing it in full
view to the audience. At 8 p. m. the same
evening among other reports given was the
N. W. R. S., by Mrs. E. B. Wells, and dur-
ing the reading the dear old flag with its
stars and stripes was brought in and the
audience rose en masse and sang America,
which was a very pretty incident.
	On Friday morning at 10 a. m. another
Utah woman, Mrs. Susa Young Gates,
read a paper “The Relation of Capital and
Labor as Applied to Domestic Service.”
The writer believes she may safely say this
paper attracted quite as much attention as
any other and was perhaps an unexpected
surprise to the women on the platform. As
a matter of course we women were all
very proud of Mrs. Gates brilliant effort, in
fact it was very apparent the Utah women
were not behind the times.
	There were many high-bred, intellectual
women from different parts of the country
new to the Council whose personality one
recalls with delight, among these we must
mention Miss Carty of Canada whose beau-
tiful presence bespoke the cultivation of
centuries, and Mrs. Richardson of Boston
whose address upon Citizenship and Loyal-
ty must be ranked as one of the very best
of the many magnificent speeches of the
week in the Council of which we shall treat
in another article more fully.


