ELIZABETH AMELIA EUGENIE, EMPRESS
OF AUSTRIA AND QUEEN OF HUNGARY.
	The people of Austria and Hungary were 
overwhelmed with sorrow and grief when
the dreadful tidings reached the palace that
their beloved empress had been brutally
assassinated at Geneva, Switzerland, on
September 10. The populace rushed into
the streets, anxiously inquiring for intelli-
gence, all hearts were filled with sadness
and a universal sympathy was expressed 
for the emperor, “upon whose head such
grief had fallen in the year of his Jubilee.”
	The empress was most beautiful, she has
been described as exquisitely lovely with
Narcissus fairness, great blue-black eyes,
teeth of pearly whiteness and magnificent
chestnut hair which fell to her knees; her 
ethereal form clouded in silk-embroidered,
diamond-studded gauze, with large emer-
alds glittering on her hair and bosom.
She was highly educated, conversed elo-
quently, played exquisitely on the zither
and organ, sang well and had great talent
for painting. Her vanity was in her hair
which she had brushed four hours every
day, during which time her reader read to 
her.
THE STORY OF HER BETROTHAL. 
	A marriage had been arranged for the
emperor with her eldest sister. The young 
monarch arrived at the castle of his future
father-in-law for the purpose of being
officially betrothed. He, however, fell
madly in love with Princess Elizabeth who
was yet in short dresses, and breaking off
his engagement with Princess Helen he
married the young sister.
	She disliked Vienna and the Viennese
and she passionately loved the Hungarian.
The Viennese had looked for a far grander


[Column 1]
alliance for their emperor, and considered
that the impoverished family of Duke Max-
imilian, who was not even a Royal High-
ness, was unworthy so great a distinction.
Consequently the young empress was dur-
ing the first ten or twelve years of her
marriage treated with coldness and disdain
by the public, by the arrogant Austrian
aristocracy and by the members of the im-
perial family and in particular by Arch-
duchess Sophia, the empress mother, who
being talented and strongminded exercised
an enormous influence over her son’s mind.
She became intensely jealous of her lovely
daughter-in-law and instigated many of
the stories circulated about her, that of the
staircase of the palace Schoenbrum being a
sample.
	Said a lady of her court: “So much of a
purely imaginative and mendacious nature
has been published during the past years
concerning the empress-queen of Austria-
Hungary by persons who have never had
an opportunity of obtaining authentic in-
formation about her, that it may possibly
interest readers to learn something of her
majesty’s character and mode of life from
one who has enjoyed the privilege of form-
ing one of her immediate circle.
	Elizabeth’s intense horror of publicity,
her love of seclusion and her exquisitely
beautiful and romantic personality have
rendered her the victim of misrepresenta-
tion that is ludicrous and frequently cruel.
Elizabeth, although regarded as an interest-
ing figure, is not one that is popular in the
general sense of the word, hence many of
these elaborately spun tissues of falsehood
have been of an inconsiderate and painful
character. One of the most unfounded of
these statements is the one to the effect that
her majesty has succumbed to the heredi-
tary curse of the house of Bavaria. She is
not demented, nor has she ever been so,
even momentarily. Broken-hearted by
sorrows, which were due to no fault of hers.
Yes; but not even a prey to melancholia so
graphically described by imaginative news-
paper writers.
	Her failure to acquire popularity was
due to her loftiness and great nobility of
character. Being remarkably gifted by
nature and education she was quick to per-
ceive the foibles and weaknesses of those
with whom she was brought into contact;
too honest to pretend with regard to the
same any blindness she did not feel, her
delicacy and purity of mind rendered her
intolerant with regard to the delinquencies
and indiscretions of a mundane’s life. She
condemned openly, and a mere look of her
glorious eyes was sufficient to convey a re-
proach to those whose consciences reproved
them.
	Her taste was refined, fastidious and
satircal. Love as ordinarily understood
was displeasing to her, and no man has
been able to obtain any influence over her;
when they attempted to change from
courtiers to open admirers they found an
impassable barrier between them in her
chilliness of manner. She has been sur-
rounded by all the powers of passion but
has never granted them more than a cool
smile of compassionate pity, those who
call her heartless prefering animals to
human beings, little know the true origin
of her reticence and coldness. She was
noble, silent, brave, resolute, generous and
absolutely truthful in all things.
	Francis Joseph has good looks, supreme
elegance, chivalry and a marvelous charm

[Column 2]
of manner. He is a soldier, a keen hunter,
a thinker, scholar, a satirist and is kind-
hearted. Although he has been drawn into
many so called affaires-de-coeur, he has
never loved but one woman, and that wo-
man is his wife. Not one tithe of the ad-
ventures ascribed to the Austrian monarch
are true. Women of all ranks admire him
and he never was able to withstand the
charm of this delightful homage; his soft-
heartedness in regard to women rendered
him cruel to the one he really loved. Often
at first the empress was angry, too proud to
stoop to jealousy. She bitterly suffered
when neglected, but found consolation in
religion, kind and warmhearted she helped
the unfortunate and consoled them as did
her namesake, Elizabeth of Hungary, cen-
turies ago. In her visits to the slums of
her empire numerous families were redeem-
ed from misery and suffering, many foul
places were purged to moral and physical
cleanliness and many young people male
and female were saved from crime and
shame.
	The empress was an enthusiastic horse-
woman and she smoked cigarettes and
strong cigars, which she said soothed her
nerves. It is a pity she could not have en-
joyed the splendor of her surroundings.
	Hapsburg, or Habsburg (named from the
old castle of Habsburg in Aargan, Swtzer-
land older name, Hawks Castle,) an ancient
and illustrious family to which belongs the
reigning sovereign of Austria. The castle,
which was built by Werner, Bishop of
Strassburg, 1001—29, is now in ruins, only
the walls of the tower remaining. The
founder of the house, however, was Albert,
who is mentioned as the Count of Hapsburg
in 1153. Under him and his son Rudolf I.
the family became the most powerful in
southern Germany and gained control of a
considerable part of Switzerland.
	The first German emperor of this family
was Rudolf I., who founded the Austrian
house which from 1438 to 1806 held the
German imperial crown, and since that
time has held that of Austria. In Spain,
Burgundy, Tuscany and Modena Haps-
burg monarchs, but of the Spanish line,
have also borne sway. The Spanish line
sprung from Charles V., whose father was
a son of Maximilian I., and whose mother
was a daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella.
When he abdicated in 1555 he left his Aus
trian possessions and the imperial crown of
Germany to Ferdinand I., Spain and the
Netherlands to his son, Philip II. With
Charles II. the Spanish line of the house of
Hapsburg became extinct 1700, and the
Spanish war of succession began, which left
Spain to the house of Bourbon.
	In 1881 it was proposed to purchase the
Castle of Hapsburg and present it to the
crown prince of Austria, but the people of
Aargan opposed it so violently the project
was abandoned. Imagine what it is to be
there where their wealth has been accumu-
lating for ages. Vienna, the imperial capi-
tal of Austria-Hungary, on the right bank
of the Danube, where occurs the only break
in the great chain of the Alps and Carpath-
an mountains which divide the northwest-
ern from the southwestern part of Central
Europe. Hence it was chosen by the
Romans as a place worthy of settlement
and fortification against the tribes north of
the Danube. During the middle ages it be-
came a great centre of trade between the
north, south, east and west, and thus ac-
quired a cosmopolitan character which

[Column 3]
renders it one of the most interesting and,-
beautiful cities of Europe. The city lies at
the base of the double-peaked Thahlenberg
(Bald mountain) on which is seen the border
of the Viennese woods, whose beauty,
render the environs of the city most attrac-
tive. The public and private buildings in-
clude some of the finest of modern architec-
ture. The Court theatre is of white marble 
and its sculptures, in portraits and allegorical
figures, tell the story of the world’s drama.
Two imperial museum buildings of great
extent face each other across a square, in
the center of which stands Conova’s great
monument of Maria Theresa, surrounded
by flowers and shrubbery amid which play
the waters of four exquisite marble foun-
tains.
	In the king’s palace the grand stairway
and entrance hall are most beautiful. As
you enter the palace there is a grotto of
shells with fountain. In the Crown room
are portraits in court costume of the present
emperor and empress. The palaces are so
beautiful one leaves them with regret.
Now that the empress rests in the solemn,
silent vaults of the Capuchin church where 
so many of the Hapsburgs are resting in
silver and in bronze coffins on the stone
floor beneath the arches, her many virtues
will become prominent.
				HELEN V. KIM
Read at the U. W. P. C.


