MILL CREEK.

	The Relief Society of Mill Creek ward,
Salt Lake Co, have just completed a sub-
stantial wheat bin with a capacity of fifteen
hundred bushels, at a cost of about two
hundred dollars. The bin is situated at
Bishop Jas. C. Hamilton’s.
	The members of the Relief Society, their
husbands, the officers of the Young Men’s
and Young Ladies associations, also Patri-


arch Archibald Hill and Bishop John R.
Winder and wife were invited to assemble
and dedicate the same, Tuesday, September
20. Bishop Hamilton placed his fine resi-
dence and grounds at the disposal of the
Society and the following program was
rendered: The choir under the leadership
of Brother Richard M. Horne sang “Praise
Ye the Lord.” Prayer was offered by
Patriarch Hill. Another song was render-
ed by the choir and an essay on wheat was
read by Secretary Frances Hanson. Brother
Edward White sang a song, and those pres-
ent then repaired to the bin and as many as
so wished inspected, the same. Bishop
John R. Winder, kneeling on the steps,
offered the dedicatory prayer. It was a
very imposing ceremony, and all seemed to
feel that it was a step in the right direction.
The audience returned to the lawn and the
choir sang “We Have Thought of Thy Kind-
ness.” Counselor Mary B. Hamilton recit-
ed a selection, “The Curse of the Dram
Shop.” Sister Sarah F. Boden sang, “Do
They Miss Me at Home?” Counselor James
R. Miller, Brother R. M. Horne, Bishop J.
R. Winder and Bishop J. C. Hamilton each
spoke in reference to the storing of grain by
the Relief Society. President Elizabeth
Hill in a few well chosen words thanked all
those who had assisted in making the under-
taking a success.
	One hundred and thirty then sat down at
one long table arranged across the lawn,
which was loaded with the bounties of the
earth. The young ladies who acted as
waiters, also the committee on arrangements
deserve special mention. After supper there
was music and singing. It was an occasion
long to be remembered, and the unity which
prevailed caused all to return home well
satisfied with the day’s proceedings.
