WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
REAPERS CLUB.
	Extracts from the minutes of the Reaper’s
Club meeting held on the 12th of Septem-
ber, 1898, at the “Woman’s Exponent”
office:
	An interesting paper on the “Ruins of
Central America” was read by Mrs. J.
Druce. She stated that in 1839 Mr. J. L.
Stephens was intrusted with a special mis-
sion to Central America by President Mar-
tin Van Buren. He visited the ruins in
that country, including Copan, Chiapas,
Yucatan and others, Mr. Stephens found
on the left bank of the Copan river in Hon-
duras, an ancient and mysterious city situ-
ated about three hundred miles from the
sea.
	A Spanish historian of Guatemala stated
that in 1530 the Cacique of Copan and
others were engaged in a revolt against
Spanish rule, and being determined to sub-
due them the Spaniards laid siege to the
city known as Copan, which at that time
was one of the largest and most popular in
the kingdom. After a desperate battle the
Cacique and his auxiliaries being unable to
resist their foe retreated and left Copan to
its fate. The place described by this
Spanish writer must have had reference to
some other city, as the massive stone
structures and columns showed no signs
of any such battle having occurred.
	Francisco Fuentes mentioned that in the
year 1700 the great Circus of Copan still re-
mained entire. “At a short distance from
this stood a wall with a gateway and pas-
sage leading to two fine pyramids from
which was suspended a hammock contain-
ing two human figures. It appeared to be
entirely of one stone and of enormous
weight, yet was put in motion by the
slightest movement of the hand.”
	From 1700 until 1836 no mention had
been made of these ruins. In the latter
year Colonel Galendo under a commission
from the government of Central America
visited Copan and other ruins of that coun-
try, but of his report very little is known.
	In 1840 Mr. J. L. Stephens explored
some of those places especially Copan and
in order to save trouble with the natives
he pruchased from them about 6,000 acres
of land on which the ruins were situated.
The remains of Copan City extended for
two miles along a river of the same name,
and comprised the walls of a temple 62
feet long.”
	Mr. Stephens said: “Cutting our way
through dense woods we came to a square
column fourteen feet high and three feet on
each side, sculptured in very bold relief
from the base to the top. On the front
was the figure of a man curiously and rich-
ly dressed, whose face was evidently a por-
trait. The sides were covered with hiero-
glyphics. Before it and about three feet
away was a large block of stone, sculptured
with figures and supposed to have been an
altar.”

[Column 2]
	The hieroglyphics, figures, etc., found
among these ruins were beautifully carved
and of the finest workmanship.” These
and other discoveries prove that the people
who once occupied this American Conti-
nent were a cultured and enlightened race.
“The whole extent occupied by these remains
of a once great civilization was covered
with trees. Two of them were gigantic
ciebas over twenty feet in circumference,
binding down the ruins and shading them
with their branches. Who were the build-
ers of this city? Historians say that
America was peopled by savages, but such
a class never reared these structures. The
fine carving on stone was the work of an
enlightened race who must have been edu-
cated in the arts and sciences of their day.
The Indians were asked who made these
monuments, etc., and their answer was,
‘Who knows?’ At one point on the south-
east corner of an enclosure is a massive
pyramidal structure 120 feet high.
	On the right are also remains of terraces,
pyramidal buildings and a gateway twenty
feet wide, the latter entering into a quad-
rangular area 250 feet square, two sides of
which are pyramids 120 feet high.
	At different points of this area are numer-
ous remains of sculpture. Lying on the
ground was a remarkable portrait, probably
of some king or chieftan. The expression
was noble. Near this stood a column alone
with its face to the east. It was 13 feet
high. 4 feet front 3 feet deep and sculp-
tured on all four sides. Originally it was
painted or enameled red, the color being
still visible.
	At a distance of perhaps 8 feet was another
large, elaborately sculptured stone with
rows of hieroglyphics on three of its sides. 
	Following the wall was still another of
the same size and similar in appearance.
	Turning north on the left was found a
high pyramidal structure. The range of
ruins continued on this side for about 400
feet, then turned at right angles to the left
and ran to the river, joining the other ex-
tremity of the wall at which the survey
commenced.
	There was another monument of differ-
ent shape, being larger at the top than be-
low, and the carvings on that was in low
relief. It alao had hieroglyphics.”
	Near the latter obelisk they found a very
remarkable altar, which stood on four globes
cut out of the same stone from which the
other portion of the structure was made,
the sculpture on this being in bas relief.
It was the only specimen of that kind of
carving found at Copan, all the others were
in bold relief. “This altar was six feet
square and 4 feet high, the top being di-
vided into 36 tablets inscribed with hiero-
glyphics, which probably recorded the his-
tory of great events in the lives of that
people. On each of the four sides of this
altar were carved four figures. The two
principal personages were on the west side
and facing each other. The serpent was
introduced in sculpture, reminding one of
the Egyptian methods of honoring their
heroes or kings. The head dresses were
curious and complicated, and the figures on
the altar all had breastplates.
	One of the two principal of these held in
his hand an object which seemed to be a
sceptre, and each of the others was hold-
ing something which might have been a
weapon of war, but if so, it was the only
representation of that kind of weapon found
in Copan; therefore, the supposition is that
they were a peaceful people.

[Column 3]
	The other courtyard was nearer the
river and probably may have been the
great circus mentioned by Fuentes, but in-
stead of being circular it was rectangular—
140 feet long and 90 feet broad, with steps
on all sides. It was more probably a por-
tion of the temple, and perhaps had been
the scene of imposing religious ceremonies.
There was found among Copan’s ruins a
small death’s head made from a fine green
stone (jadeite) and beautifully carved.
	How large stones were transported over
irregular surfaces for long distances, and
especially how one of them was set on a
mountain 2,000 feet high is a problem im-
possible for us to discover, or even, con-
jecture. At one point in a ravine leading
towards the river was a gigantic block
much larger than any seen in the city, and
was probably on its way there when the
labors of the workmen were suddenly ar-
rested.” Perhaps the history of the peo-
ple is engraven on their monuments etc.,
but who shall read them.
	These works were strange in design, ex-
cellent in sculpture, rich in ornament and
different from that of any people now known.
	Mr. Stephens made especial inquiry for
the stone hammock mentioned by Fuentes
but failed to find it, although it may still
be there broken and buried. A priest told
Mr. Stephens that he had seen it, and an
Indian also stated that it had been entire
two generations back.
	The existence of these ruins was first
made known to the world through the
writings of Mr. Stephens and the drawings
which accompanied them, by Mr. Cather-
wood. The latter gentleman was with Mr.
Stephens in Central America.
