ONEIDA STAKE
	Minutes of the Oneida Stake Relief Soci-
ety quarterly conference held in the Frank-
lin meeting house, Sep. 13, 1898.
	Morning Session: On the stand were
Stake President Elizabeth Fox, Counselor
Mary Hawks and Sister Elizabeth J. Stev-
enson of Salt Lake City. Meeting opened
by singing “Guide us O, Thou Great Jeho-
vah” Prayer by Sister Phebe McNeil.
singing “We thank Thee O, God for a
prophet.” The minutes of the previous
conference were read and approved.
	President Fox was pleased to see so
many present, as the Stake had been divid-
ed recently there would not be so many
wards represented as heretofore, there being
but twelve wards left in the Stake instead
of twenty-seven.
	President Phebe McNeil reported the
Fairview ward; Julia Ropen, Preston; L.
B. Benson, Whitney; Annie Challis, Frank-
lin. All are in a flourishing condition both
spiritually and financially.
	Counselor Mary Hawks said: “It takes
energy to push any great cause along. We
have cause to be proud of the noble women
at the head of these organizations. There
are also women of the world doing noble
deeds. We should watch our youth, many
allurements surround them, infidelity
abounds on the earth.”
	Sister E. J. Stevenson felt pleased to be
present. Said we had already heard many
truths, considered it a privilege in hearing
the minutes of the first organization of the
Relief Society of the Church. It is quite
proper for the young ladies to join these
associations We should teach our
daughters to be good housewives, indus-
trious workers and not mortgage our homes
for the vanities of the world. We shall be
tried all we can stand.
	Singing “O, Jesus the Giver.” Bene-
diction by Counselor Mary Hawks.
	Afternoon Session: Singing “Come O,
Thou king of Kings.” Prayer by James
Challis. Singing “Prayer is the soul’s sin-

[Column 2]
cere desire.” Dayton and St. Joseph wards
reported.
	President Fox was pleased with the ex-
cellent reports. “Our Stake is so small now
we will be able to visit every ward.” Spoke
of their travels through the Stake before its
division, considered it important to gather
in the grain in the season thereof. The
Lord has blest us with bounteous harvests,
we should make every effort to store our
grain.
	Sister Stevenson touched upon the sub-
ject of storing grain; said in the midst of
counsel there is safety. President Wood-
ruff has said the vials of wrath were being
poured out. We must take care of our
health and attend our meetings. Our sis-
ters are being called on missions, great re-
sponsibilities will rest upon our young
people. Advised the sisters to take the
“Exponent.”
	Statistical and financial report read and
accepted. Mary Hawks presented the
general board of Relief Society officers.
All were sustained, and also the officers of
this Stake.
	Bishop L. L. Hatch heartily endorsed
all that had been said. President Fox and
Counselor Mary Hawks encouraged all to
love one another and be united, unity is
strength.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing “Come listen to a prophet’s voice.”
Benediction by James Herd.
				ANNIE HATCH, Sec.
SUMMIT STAKE.
	Minutes of semi-annual conference of
Summit Stake Relief Society held at Hen-
nefer, Tuesday, Sep. 6, President Mary J.
Atwood presiding. Meeting commenced at
10:20 by singing “Prayer is the soul’s sin-
cere desire.” Prayer by Brother Pascot.
Singing “Come listen to a prophet’s voice.”
	On the stand were Counselors Ann Cluff
and Ruth M. Pack, Dr. E. S. Barney of
Salt Lake City, and Stake President W. W.
Cluff. The minutes of the previous con-
ference were read and accepted. Stake re-
port read. Verbal reports were given by
President Ann Harder, Kamas; President
Elizabeth Lusty, Coalville; President
Louisa Wickle, Echo; Counselor Sarah E.
Sargent, Hoytsville; Counselor Hannah
Richen, Hennefer.
	Counselor Ruth M. Pack then addressed
the sisters, advising them to build good
granaries and lay up wheat. Said: “We
have an abundant harvest this year and the
grain is good, work in the time thereof then
your duties will be easy. Get the spirit of
God, have your lamps trimmed and burn-
ing, that you may be prepared for whatever
is before you. It is a grand thing to be a
Latter day Saint. We have to do our
work in this dispensation to prepare for the
future, ask the Lord for His holy spirit to
give you strength to perform every duty.”
	President Atwood introduced Dr. E. S.
Barney who spoke upon a variety of sub-
jects and said: “My only desire is to do
good to others. If you wish to be edified
you must give your strict attention and be
united, that you may draw out the speaker
according to your desires. I am pleased to
meet with you and with one of your officers,
Sister Ruth Pack, whom I was acquainted
with over fifty years ago in Nauvoo and
crossing the plains. You have good com-
petent officers in your Stake organization,
listen to their counsels. Lay up all the
wheat you can, it will keep if well protect-

[Column 3]
ed. I had some bread made from flour that
I had kept fourteen years, it was sweet and
good. I sealed it up in tin cans and it kept
good. When you talk or read to a congre-
gation, or when you pray, don’t hide your
face behind a book or down in your hands,
but lift up your head so that your voice
may go out clear and distinct to the hear-
ers, that they may all say amen. May the
Lord help us to understand our positions is
my desire in the name of Jesus Christ.
	The morning session closed by singing.
Benediction by President W. W. Cluff.
	Afternoon session called to order at 2
o’clock by President Atwood. After the
opening exercise roll was called and six
branches represented. Counselor Ann Cluff
then presented the officers of the Central
Board who were sustained unanimously.
The Summit Stake Relief Society officers
were presented and sustained; the ward
presidents with their counselors as they
now stand were presented and sustained
unanimously.
	Counselor Ann Cluff said: “We all know
this society cannot be carried on without
means, we should have charity not only
with our means, but with one another.
Teachers should enter into their duties
with all their heart and soul, be determined
to do right and all the good possible; re-
member that charity covers a multitude of
sins. I ask the Lord to help us all.”
	President Atwood said: “I am very well,
pleased with our conference, I thought as
the presidents were reporting and they said
there was no poor to need help, what a
blessed people. There are a few that are
sick and when you go to visit them go
clothed with the spirit of your calling and
they will be pleased and comforted with
your visit. Give what you have to give
and ask God to bless the suffering. Your
offers are ‘like bread cast upon the waters,
after many days they will return,’ in bless-
ings upon your heads. We should be bet-
ter acquainted with each other and be
thankful for our homes and surroundings.”
	Sister Barney spoke for some time, touch-
ing upon her medical studies, and address-
ing the teachers she said: “Don’t ever say
you are begging. You are soliciting means
to carry out one of God’s requirements to
assist the poor and needy. What have we
that is our own? Not a thing, all belongs
to the Lord, you are only stewards and
should be liberal. If we were living in the
united order this would all be done away
with, for we would all be equal. Tithes
and offerings bring forth the blessings of
heaven.”
	President W. W. Cluff announced the
time of our beloved President Wilford
Woodruff’s funeral and made a few re-
marks, saying if the sisters are not proud of
themselves the brethren are proud of them.
“Their reports are excellent and you should
be proud of your perfect organization in the
Relief Society. I always admired Sister
Barney’s energy and push. I have been
acquainted with her a long time and al-
ways found her full of energy. The teach-
ers who feel like they are begging don’t
have the spirit of their mission upon them.
You go forth to solicit means to carry on
that part of the work of the Lord, and you 
should all be earnest in your labors. This
conference now adjourns to meet in Coal-
ville the first Tuesday in May, 1899.”
	Singing “Hail Emanuel.” Benediction
by Edmond Eldredge. 
