THE MARTHAS AND MARYS.

	In Luke chapter 10, verses 41-42, we
find the words, “Martha, Martha, thou art
careful and troubled about many things,
but Mary hath chosen the better part which
shall not be taken from her.”
	Now God forbid that I should be irrever-
ent or question the sayings of the Master, 
but it seems to me He was rather hard on
Martha on that occasion. I can only think
that the whole is not told and that there is 
more than we see in the Savior’s words.
	Martha was cumbered with much serv-
ing we are told, and it seems as if Mary
instead of lending a helping hand was sit-
ting at Jesus’ feet drinking in His wonder- 
ful words; perhaps he was expounding to
her the principles of the Gospel not perfect-
ly understood by her, and she in her rapt
attention forgot her sister laborers. But
Martha was working for Him, she was pre- 
paring the feast at which He was to join, 
but why was she less honored in her duties
than her sister? Doubtless she would
have liked to hear His wonderful words too,
but He might have had to depart or retire
supperless had she done so. I have often
thought of these words and wondered at
them
	There are many toiling Marthas today
who would gladly take the place of the
Marys, but by reason of their multifarious
duties have not the time.
	I picture before me a good and worthy
sister spending her life and her means in
every good act that comes in her way,
in fact giving her time and substance in the
service of the Master, her name honored,
her very presence felt and a murmur of
blessing following her on every side. I see
another sister whose aspirations are as high, 
whose love of the Master is as great and
who would gladly devote her life to His
ministry but who is poor and has to toil for
her daily bread, and has but little time to
devote to the better part. Her toils are


unrecognized, there is no murmur of ap-
plause, no one rises to call her blessed.
In the hereafter when the good Lord
judges all flesh, can it be possible that she
will have less glory than her more favored
sister?
	I see a patient, untiring mother with only
small means toiling from morning to night
for her husband and children with little or
no encouragement, (by the way, husbands
might often lift a great weight of care by
saying a cheering word of praise, they do
not think, how dear such trifles are to the
weary and careworn wife,) but still she
toils on. There are thousands of Marthas
bearing many heartaches that are not able
to take the place of the Marys, and whose
inmost soul cries out, “Bless me also, even
me O Lord!”
	The Master knew Martha well, for we
are told “He loved Martha and her sister,”
so she must have been thoroughly under-
stood by Him. Then why the rebuke?
Surely, surely there is a crown of glory for
the Marthas also!
	I shall be glad if any sister or brother
will throw a little light on the Savior’s
words, which I acknowledge I am unable
to understand.
