	SPRINGVILLE LETTER.

	Ages have demonstrated that immense
wealth has been produced by sericulture.
The Chinese and Japanese date back thou-
sands of years the existence of this wonder-
ful industry which has furnished the
most costly and ornamental clothing the
world has ever worn, even royalty itself
ows its richness of attire, its costliest adorn-
ment to a worm so forbidding to some of
our more refined ladies, as to become repul-
sive to the sight, to say nothing of the
touch. And yet this worm is the producer
of all the silk in the world.
	Only imagine for a single moment the
destruction of this insect, its removal from
earth forever, and what a loss to the attire
of the world this would be. No more silk
dresses, no ribbons, silk necktie or pocket-
handkerchief. Countless millions of wealth
would be cut off and the occupation of
millions of workers. Now I hope to arouse
an interest in every reader of the “Expon-
ent” for this great industry, by submitting
figures and facts.
	Presuming upon the number of forty
thousand families in Utah and that each
family raises only twenty pounds of cocoons.
The bounty alone on this would be $5.00 to
each family, which means $200,000 to the
State in bounty alone; but let us carry these
figures further. Twenty pounds of cocoons
would produce four pounds of reeled silk,
which at four dollars a pound means
$21.00 to each family, $840,000 to
the State. But if each family should
produce forty pounds, which can be done

[Column 2]
in every house that has a boy ten years old
to gather the leaves, this would give the
sum of $1,680,000 yearly.
	I trust this statement will appeal so
strongly to all that they will not allow this
golden opportunity to pass unheeded and
thus prevent employment to hundreds of
our sons and daughters. We have quality,
what we want is quantity to encourage
capital to establish mills.
	President Young predicted that this
would yet become one of the greatest in-
dustries of the country, and the experience
of the present year has proven the truth of
his words.
	Not only so, but once engaged in good
earnest it becomes fascinating, as I have
learned from my own experience, having
produced in my own house thirty-seven and
a half pounds of cocoons this season, which
netted us $9.30 in bounty alone.
	There were only two of us to do the
housework and the additional labor of at-
tending the worms was without hired help.
	I wish to add a caution about building
scaffolding against a wall. Build out so
that you can pass around, and be sure to
commence to hatch the eggs not later than
the last week in April. Our bounty to six
families in Springville this season was
$40.00.
	For further information apply to Mrs.
Margaret A. Caine, secretary of the Silk
Commission, also the pamphlet of the com-
mission. These are reliable guides. All
books and eggs are gratis. Every county
raising one hundred pounds of cocoons is
entitled to a person to teach them how to
reel silk.
