NOTES AND NEWS.

Miss Annie Wheeler, daughter of Gener-
al Wheeler, who had been nursing the sick
at Santiago, and has now come up to
Montauk, has become especially endeared
to the men for her adaptability under all
circumstances. On the voyage from Santi-


ago to Montauk, Miss Wheeler several
times acted as chaplain in reading the pray-
ers for the dead as the bodies were con-
signed to the watery grave.

Mrs. Ellen Louise Demorest, founder of
Demorest’s Monthly Magazine, died recent-
ly in New York City, after a long illness.
Mrs. Demorest had been actively engaged
for many years in philanthropic and temper-
ance work and in publishing the magazine
and other literary and fashionable periodi-
cals. She was born in Saratoga in 1824,
was the president of the Woman’s Christian
Temperance Union of New York City; vice-
president and trustee of the Woman’s Tem-
ple of Chicago; one of the charter members
and vice-president of Sor[-]sis; and a mem-
ber of many other societies. Mrs. Demo-
rest leaves four children—Mrs. Vienna
Demorest Gano, Henry C. Demorest, Wil-
liam C. Demorest and Mrs. Evelyn Demo-
rest Rea. 
Clara Barton will be ready to meet Sur-
geon-General Sternberg or anybody else
who wishes to lay responsibility for suffer-
ing on the Red Cross. It is not likely that
that official will be eager to hear the truth
all told by that straightforward lady. The
Red Cross took the lion’s share of the re-
sponsibility of relieving suffering so long
that Surgeon-General Sternberg’s announce-
ment is ridiculous. He says that inasmuch
as the Red Cross has had entrance to the
military camps since June 9 they must share
the responsibility for any suffering with the
War Department. The Red Cross isn’t
afraid but who is going to “investigate”
the merciful acts of a volunteer organiza-
tion managed by a disfranchised female
citizen?—Boston Transcript.
A small dish of powdered charcoal kep.
on one of the upper shelves of the refriger-
ator is an excellent thing to absorb odors.
It should be changed every few days.


[Column 1]
SWIFT AS THE EAGLE 
Denver is one day nearer Chicago to-day than
it was yesterday. This is the actual practical
effect of the fast mail trains inaugurated by the
North-Western and Union Pacific.—Chicago
Times Herald, Feb. 8, 1898.
“The Chicago Special"
	Leaves Denver, 4:30 p m today.
	Arrives Omaha, 7:00 a m tomorrow.
	Arrives Chicago, 8:45 p m tomorrow.
	To the Chicago, Union Pacific and North-
western belongs the credit of inaugurating the
new fast train service between Denver and
Chicago.
□ This new train is a triumph of modern rail-
roading. It consists of six magnificent cars:
Buffet, smoking and library car, with barber
shop, etc. Two splendid palace sleeping cars.
Reclining chair car. Dining car, meals a la
carte. Baggage car. 

	This is the only train between Denver and
Chicago having the luxurious 
.........Buffet, Smoking and Library Cars.
Westbound, “The Colorado Special" leaves
Chicago 10:00 a m, arrives Omaha 11:55 p m, to-
day, and Denver l:30 p m, tomorrow. 

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors 
to open savings accounts in their, own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW. 
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said 
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired. 
	WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
	GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

