LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
Minutes of Ladies Semi-monthly meeting
held in the 14th ward Assembly hall, Aug-
ust 27, 1898, Counselor E. J. Stevenson
presiding. Opened by singing "For the
strength of the hills we bless thee.” Pray-
er by Counselor E. L. Webb. Continued
by singing ‘‘Welcome best of all good
meetings.” Sister Stevenson stated that
President Horne would not be able to meet
with us today and asked the sisters to ex-
ercise faith that Sister Horne might be
strengthened, and her heart made to re-
joice. Minutes read and approved.
Counselor E. J. Stevenson gave valuable
instruction and spoke of the accidental
death of Sister Horne’s grandson. Our
sympathies go out to those who are afflicted
and bereaved.
Sister E. Barrow thought we should live
by every word that proceedeth from the word
of God, and made other good remarks.
Sister Julia C. Howe said: “The love of
the Lord should be written in our hearts.
I think we have been negligent in not
teaching our children the ten command-
ments. Do we instruct our children what
these sins are? Parents should teach their
children all the virtues and then send them
to the Primary for further instruction. We
must teach our children by the fireside.
Sisters pray for those who are bereft in the
death of young Brother Horne, it is a
shock to our dear Sister Horne. May the
love of the Lord be imprinted on the hearts
of our children, and if we do not teach
them aright we will be held accountable.”
Sister M. W. Wilcox said: “May we be
enabled to comprehend the dealings of God
with us, honor the priesthood, exercise
faith in the Gospel, pray for our children
when they are going away from us, and I
believe God will respect us for it.”
Sister Barnes, Sister Martin and Sister
Rawlings each bore a faithful testimony.
The congregation sang “Lord Thou wilt
hear me when I pray.”
Sister Jane James made a few remarks.
Sister E. Webb spoke of the evil of allow-
ing our children to be out at night.
Sister Stevenson made a few closing re-
marks and meeting adjourned for two
weeks. Singing Doxology. Benediction
by Sister Margaret P. Young. 
LYDIA D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


