	MALAD STAKE.
	The Relief Society quarterly conference
of the Malad Stake of Zion convened at
Portage August 13, 1898, President Lucin-
da Hoskins presiding. On the stand were
Stake President O. C. Hoskins and Coun-
selors J. M. McCrary and Wm. H. Gibbs
also Mrs. E. B. Wells of Salt Lake City.
Meeting opened by singing “God moves in
a mysterious way.” Prayer was offered by
Counselor J. M. McCrary. Continued by
singing “Up, awake ye defenders of Zion.”
Roll called, minutes of last conference read
and accepted.
	Sister E. B. Wells of the General Board
being present asked to hear reports from
the presidents of the different branches.
President Jane H. Harris, President Eliza

[Column 2]
V. Ward then gave in good reports of the
Portage and Washakie associations.
	Sister Elizabeth Parkinson felt happy in
having Sister Wells visit us, knew we
would have a time of rejoicing together.
	Sister Rebecca Williams bore a faithful
testimony to the work of the Lord, exhort-
ing the sisters to be prayerful and place
their trust in the Lord.
	Sister E. B. Wells of Salt Lake City,
felt happy to meet with the brethren and
sisters here in the Relief Society conference
of Malad Stake. Said ‘‘The sisters of the
Relief Society are advancing in knowledge.
We must be active workers if we wish the
Lord to assist us,and unless we are obedient
to those placed over us we cannot gain an
exaltation in the kingdom of our Father.”
Spoke on the subject of silk culture and of
some of the teachings of the Prophet Joseph
to the Relief Society in Nauvoo. Said the
children should assist their mothers, felt
that the sisters were truly blest here in
having the Stake presidency meet with
them, gave much good instruction on
many different subjects.
	President Lucinda Hoskins adjourned
the conference until 2 p. m. Singing, Dox-
ology. Benediction by John Thornton. 
	Afternoon session opened by the choir
singing “O ye mountains high.” Prayer
by Bishop Enoch Harris. Singing “We
thank Thee O, God for a prophet.”
	President Lucinda Hoskins gave counsel
to the Relief Society in regard to their
duties, urged them to be persevering, take
care of the poor, comfort the sick and heed
the commandments of our Father in heaven.
She had visited a number of branches
around the Stake and found the sisters all
striving to do their duty.
	The Woodruff branch was then reported
by Counselor Margaret Davis as being in
good working order. Sister Elvira Harrison
reported the St. John’s branch. “The sisters
are always willing to do anything they are
called upon to do by those placed over
them.”
	Sister E. B. Wells said that by being or-
ganized in the Relief Society we become
better acquainted and learn to love each
other better with the love the Gospel
brings. Spoke of the necessity of storing
grain, said this work was established by
the direct counsel of the Prophet Brigham
Young. We should have grain on hand
for a time of need. “Teach your children 
the law of tithing, strive to live in all the
ways of the Lord and pay an honest tithing
ourselves.” Spoke on many interesting
subjects.
	Sister Eliza A. Hall bore testimony to
the remarks made by the brethren and sis-
ters and to the divinity of the Gospel.
	President O. C. Hoskins, Counselor J.
M. McCrary, and Counselor Wm. H
Gibbs made encouraging remarks, exhort-
ing the sisters to be diligent in performing
all their duties in the ReliefSociety.
	The conference adjourned for three
months. Meeting closed by singing “May
we who know the joyful sound.” Bene-
diction pronounced by J. Mansfield.
	Another branch in our Relief Society was
organized in Malad Stake on July 10, 1898.
It is also a new ward in this Stake, the
name is Pleasant View, Oneida Co., Idaho.
The following are names of officers: Lucy
E. Wright, president; Sarah W Jones
and Emeline E. Thomas, counselors; Jane
M. Evans, secretary; Caroline Jones,
treasurer.
