	MARY LUND JUDD.

	It becomes our painful and sorrowful duty to
chronicle the sudden and seemingly untimely end-
ing of a happy, busy and useful life, that of our
dearly loved sister and friend, Mollie Judd.
	On the 8th of July, 1898, after an illness as sud-
den, short and profound as it was unexpected,
she passed to the great Beyond and the haunts
that once knew her now know her no more. The
hearts which were made glad by her loving and
dutiful ministrations are now sad and desolate,
missing the accustomed presence, notwithstand-
ing all are trying to say ‘‘Thy will be done.”
	The existing cause of death was angina pectoris,
superinduced by over-exertion and a condition of
fatty degeneration of the heart.
	Mollie was the daughter of Wilson and Eliza
Brace Lund who emigrated from England to
America in 1842, and married in Nauvoo during
the same year. In 1850 they joined the Saints in
Utah The subject of this sketch was born in
Salt Lake City, Dec. 7, 1860, and removed with
her parents to St. George the same year. During
her girlhood she was a teacher in the public
schools. On June 21, 1884, she was married to
Elder Thomas Judd in the St. George Temple.
	For a number of years in common with many
of her sisters she moved about from place to
place seeking refuge from the stern rigor of the
laws which had been formed purposely for such
as she was, even going as far as England on a
protracted visit. Of late years she has lived in
St. George filling up the measure of each day in
usefulness, striving to do good in any and every
available way. 
	For six years she has presided over the Y. L.
M. I. A. of St. George, and that association has
made wonderful progress during that time. She
was also second counselor in the Stake Relief
Society, and a teacher in the Primary Associa-
tion and in the Sunday School.
	Funeral services were held on Monday, July 10,
at 10 a. m. in the Tabernacle. The decorations
were tasteful and appropriate. Everybody who
possibly could came out to do honor to the occa-
sion. An impressive feature was the Y L. M. I
A. who attended en masse dressed in white
and with beautiful bouquets which they laid upon
the newly made grave, making of it a mound of
lovely bloom
	The music was nicely rendered and all passed
off peacefully and revere[-]tly, much to the satis-
faction of all present, and especially to the com-
fort of the mourners. 
	Sister Mollie leaves a husband, a young son,
an aged mother, brothers sisters and many rela-
tives and friends to mourn her death May her
rest be sweet and the spirit of God comfort the
bereaved, than whom few feel more so than her
loving friends and associates
		JULIA A. PACE, Cor Sec.
		ANN C. WOODBURY, Pres.
		EMMA MORRIS, Counselor.
	St. George Stake R. S.


