	BY MRS. A. E. N. R. 
Close the door carefully, muffle the tread, 
Drop the white curtains ’round the white bed; 
A pale mother’s sleeping, aye give her rest, 
See the fresh rosebud upon her white breast. 
She has struggled with pain, she has wrestled 
	with death;
Her’s is the victory! let not a breath 
Awaken her slumber, hark! there's a tread, 
Nearer and nearer approaching the bed;
Manly his bea[-]ing—yea noble his mien; 
Lowly he bends the fair sleepers between;
Lifts the frail floweret with womanly care, 
Breathlessly gazing, his lips part in prayer! 
No! there’s a chill in the a[-]bient air, 
Each word falls distinctly and painfully slow, 
Curdling and freezing the blood in its flow;
“Its only a girl ?”—a hush as of death 
For a moment suspended each listener’s breath;
n the pause—the pale sleeper uplifted her eyes—
“I must have been dreaming,” she said with
	surprise,
“I thought that a cold hand of iron touched my
	heart,
While hard, cruel words like a poisonous dart, 
Pierced my soul to the core; I sprang for my
	babe!
‘Its only a girl!’ were the words I heard said, 
And Elmer! Oh Elmer! that voice was like thine;
That hand—angels spare me!—once warmly
	clasped mine, 
As you called me more precious than ruby or
	pearl,
And yet, it was when I was only a girl! 
If a girl is thus dear, then the mother and wife 
To every true man is as dear as his life!”
She clasped her cold hands o’er her hot throbbing
	brow—
The blood had all rushed to that citadel now;
Then her words, quick and scathing, burned into 
	the soul!
Emotion swayed reason beyond her control—
“Its only a girl!”—O man in thy strength, 
Know that God measures souls by their depth 
	not their length; 
The streamlet may wind over miles of fair earth, 
Yet bear on its bosom [-]o proud ship of worth; 
A man may hold kingdoms, and nations control; 
What is that to the birth of one beautiful soul? 
The germ in your strong arms, unfolded with
	care,
May, like Harriet Hosmer or Rosa Bonheur, 
Move the world by their art, or lull it to rest 
With poesy's magic, and balm of the blest. 
The mission of motherhood! Man do you dare 
With sneers stain the sa[-]ctum sanctorum of 
	prayer? 

[Column 2]
This Holy of Holies—this mightiest dower? 
Dare to scoff at the sex in which lies this power?
Ah, where were the Monarch, the Duke and the
	Earl,
Had not each a mother—once "only a girl!”
And whence came thy being, and all the proud
	van 
You marshalled in battle—yes every man? 
The magnet that led them through storm and 
	through strife, 
Was a mother, a sister, a sweetheart, or wife, 
Each closely enshrined in his heart like a pearl;
And yet each fair image was “only a girl!”
It was only a girl that Deity chose
To incarnate the Christ; the story in prose 
Sweeps down through the ages like stars through 
	the night, 
To illumine the world with its God given light. 
It was only frail woman that wept at the tomb, 
And talked with the angels when Jesus had gone;
And woman that bore the glad tidings to man 
That Christ, the Beloved, had risen again. 
Go to the reeking battlefields of yore
And read the records writ in human gore, 
Of woman’s valor, mercy, courage, love, 
And point me to one name that’s carved above 
The name of woman in such deeds as these, 
And I will pray to heaven on bended knees, 
That every child henceforth may be a boy;
That every father’s heart may leap with joy. 
But ere in scorn you breath “only a girl!”
Look, lest you cast aside the greater pearl.
		—Selected.


[Column 1]
