IN MEMORIAM.

	Sister Olivia Widerborg, president of the
Relief Society of Box Elder Stake, departed
this life on the 27th of September, 1898, in
Brigham City, Box Elder county, after a
lingering illness of many months, or in fact
years.
	Olivia Nelsen Widerborg was born on the
4th of December, 1832, in Maribo on Lol
land, Denmark. She embraced the Gospel
in Copenhagan, February 16, 1855, was
baptized by Elder Niels Hansen. In 1858
she emigrated to Utah and was married
November 28, 1860, to Elder Carl Wider-
borg in Salt Lake City.


Her husband died in 1867 and she was
left alone to support herself and children.
She was connected with the Relief Society
work in Ogden and acted as secretary in
the Primary Association in the 3rd ward of
Ogden. In 1878 she removed to Brigham
City and became an active member of the
Relief Society here. On September 8, 1885,
she was appointed second counselor to
President Harriet A. Snow. In July 1890,
she was elected president of Box Elder
Stake after the death of President Harriet
A. Snow, which position she held at the
time of her death.
	Sister Widerborg was beloved by her sis-
ters, she was a woman of great integrity,
full of the spirit of discernment and charity,
a friend to the poor, the distressed and the
sorrowful, she was particularly gifted both
intellectually and spiritually. Her faith
and trust in God was perfect, and through
all her long sufferings she manifested a
sweet spirit of patience and submission to
the will of the Lord.
	She possessed the rare gift of inspiring
others with confidence, the poor and dis-
tressed would feel free to come to her per-
sonally and never did any one leave her
empty-handed or empty-hearted, according
to their need. Of her can be truly said,
“She did magnify her holy calling.” 
	Lovingly from her colaborers,
	Mary Wright, 1st counselor; Zilla Reese,
2nd counselor; Annie Wiscom, recording sec-
retary; Emelia Madsen, corresponding secre-
tary; Fanny Graehl, treasurer; Eugenie S. 
Pierce, assistant secretary.


