U. W. P. C. 

	The annual meeting of the U. W. P. C.
was held at the residence of L. B. Bunnell,
Oct. 31, 1898, President R. B Pratt in the
chair. Opening prayer was offered by Mary
A. Freeze. Roll call was answered by
sentiments from Lydia D. Alder’s poems,
followed by instrumental music by the
hostess. Unfinished business was called
for and that of incorporation was again
postponed. The president said that a
business meeting had been called in regu-
lar order and the officers for the ensuing
year nominated. The question of balloting
or voting in the new members was dis-
cussed at some length and finally Dr. Shipp
made a motion that we elect our new
officers by vote; this motion carried unani-
mously and the president then presented
the following names which were elected
without a dissenting voice:
	Ella W. Hyde, president; Isabella
Cameron Brown, 1st vice-president; Caro-
line C. R. Wells, 2nd vice-president;
Aimed Schiller, secretary; Ruth M. Fox,
assistant secretary; Lydia D. Alder, cor-
responding secretary; Edith R. Lovsey,
assistant corresponding secretary; Margaret
A. Caine, treasurer; Ellis R. Shipp, histor-
ian; Helen V. Kimball, Dr. Ellis. R. Shipp,
Dr. Romania B. Pratt program committee.
	Miss Raleigh then sang in a very rich, full


voice "The Miller’s Daughter." The
president then made a very eloquent fare-
well speech, giving an interesting word
picture and resume of the year’s work, after
which the following program was rendered:
Miss Kimball gave a most interesting ac-
count of the late Queen of Denmark and her
beautiful daughters. Mrs. Alder also gave
some pleasing reminiscences of the king’s
court and the Princess Alexandria who
created a revolution among the nobility re-
garding children. She took her babies
everywhere and when she attended grand
dinners, "entertained the company with
what the baby said." Miss Kimball opened
the discussion on the Dreyfus case and read
some newspaper clippings. The treasurer,
Mrs. Harker, then read the report for the
past year which was very satisfactory.
This was followed by a very touching song
in the very sweet voice of Mrs. Maggie Bas-
sett. Then with the brilliant lights extin-
guished and in the soft glow of the grate
fires Mrs. Ruth M. Fox related some very
thrilling Hallowe’en stories, greatly to the
amusement of her listeners. Mrs. Mamie
Stringham favored the company with classic-
al music and the refreshments that followed
were of the same order of excellence.
	A vote of thanks was [-]endered the hostess
for her kindly entertainment and to the
president for her very efficient service to
the club during the year, and the new
officers were duly installed.
