“WAY UP IN MAINE.”
	It was a dull, gray, November day away
up among the pine woods in a little coun-
try town in Maine, “a long time ago,” and
the prospect was dreary enough outside, for
the old brown house stood away alone on
the farm, and there was not even a stage
coach passed that way, only the neighbors
now and then in a chaise or heavy vehicle,
for those were not the days of street cars or
locomotives, and only a few ladies kept
their own carriage, and things were slow
compared to these modern times, but what-
ever came or went everbody kept Thanks-
giving, and there were great preparations
beforehand in all the old-fashioned houses,
for it was a general time of festivities.
	Large families were the rule, too, ever
and ever so long ago, and sometimes the
house was as full as it would hold of girls

[Column 2]
and boys, until one would wonder where
they were all tucked, away when night
came. However, there were plenty of home-
made feather beds, for farmers kept geese,
and every housewife was supposed to re-
plenish her stock of bedding from her own
farmyard. Very little money was paid out
for housekeeping matters, money was ex-
pended mostly for books and school tuition,
and perhaps extra lessons on the melodian
or some simple musical instrument for the
parlor, for there was a sort of style kept up
in these far away country houses, and
though often their manners were crude and
their minds unsophisticated, yet in good,
common, practical sense these primitive
Puritans of a few generations back were
not found wanting.
	It was just a day or two before Thanks-
giving and the Denton family were on the
qui vive with excitement in expectation of
guests who were coming from a distance,
and who must be entertained for several
days at least, and the older daughters were
busy, not only with work, but building
“castles in the air” in such splendor that
their eyes shone with visions seen from the
towers of these airy fabrics, and floating
away into space, even sailing over imagin-
ary seas, whose waters bore them tranquilly
onward to the “island of happy children,”
where their dreams were all to be realized
and their fancies become living realities;
and while they were helping with the act-
ual work of cooking and making ready,
they chatted as gaily as though their antici-
pations had come to pass and the fulness of
hope had found its fruition.
	While the girls were busy helping in the
kitchen and pantry, baking in the great
Dutch oven numberless pies and puddings,
pork and beans—the turkeys and geese were
roasted before the fire in those days—the
boys were not idle, for there were great logs
to be chopped and large quantities of pine
knots to be brought in, and nuts to be put
into the “settle” ready for the long eve-
nings when the day’s work and feasting
was over and all would gather for the eve-
ning pastime around the great, wide fire-
place, to crack nuts and jokes simultaneously.
	Little Hattie, the youngest of the girls
who had been paring apples and throwing
the paring over her head to see what letter
it would make, exclaimed, “There Hannah,
do you see that? Its a perfect R, and you
and Elsie have only had S. S. I know
you’ll both marry Smiths, (if you ever do
marry) one will be John Smith, related to
Pocahontas, and the other some one ‘un-
known to fame,’ while poor, little me, I
shall marry a Russell.” “Who will be relat-
ed to your great grandmother Russell and
perhaps almost as old, so don’t boast little
Miss,” said Drucilla.
	“Well, any way, I’ll never be an old
maid like Judith and Sarah Ann, why an
old man is better than none at all, and I’m
not going to wait and make piles of quilts
and stitch and stitch and knit and darn
and mend, and show off what I can do for
the delectation of any man young or old,
and neither will I ‘keep company’ in the
same old parlor year in and year out like


Judith sitting as she and Ben Warner do, 
one in one corner and one in the other, and
can’t pluck up courage to speak above a
whisper; and as for Sarah Ann, she is ‘too
proper’ for a man to dare ‘pop the question,’
but all the same our minister is in love with
her, and he’ll be getting old Deacon Whit-
ing to speak for him.”
	“Hattie you’re too saucy for anything,
stop your nonsense,” Sarah Ann blushing-
ly protested.
	“O, I know what you all think, but I am
tired of waiting for you girls to get married.
Everything is ready for you, and there’s a
dowry, too, to go along with the house
goods, and there’s chests of linen and what’s
to hinder a wedding this Thanksgiving.
I’ve been thinking of the south chamber,
I’m just longing to decorate it my way.”
	“Now Hattie that is going too far, ‘little
girls should be seen and not heard,’ ” said
the modest Drucilla.
	“That’s all right, but I’ll not be put off
that way. I know more than you think,
I haven’t been to high school just to learn
grammar and Euclid, I looked into a few
other things.”
	“And picked up some slang,” interposed
Judith, “which we can’t tolerate. I intend
to speak to mother about your uncommon
knowledge of things.”
	“And Miss Judith I intend to do some-
thing for you and the other grown girls in
this family and get you married off.”
	“How dreadful!” all four echoed at
once. But Jonathan the eldest son, a full-
fledged lawyer, coming in suddenly heard
with dismay the exclamation, and with a
look of inquiry turned to his sister Hattie,
the prime favorite of all the family, for an
explanation.
	“Well its all because I want to get them
married, its high time they were—every-
body says so.”
	“Everybody says so," all the girls re-
peated. “Whose gossip are you repeating
child?”
	“Widow Mills told Bettie and she told
me, and said ‘Hattie you marry while
you’re young and fresh and pretty, and
don’t teach school until you’re as cross as
two sticks, and you’re gray and have crow’s
feet and—”
	But Hattie was cut short in her explana-
tion, for in walked her father and all was
quiet directly, you might have heard a pin
drop.
	“Girls you were making so much noise I
thought you must be having a real good
time, but you look as demure as so many
kittens. "
	“Well pa we were, at least I was having
some fun at the expense of my staid, proper
sisters, they’re as dignified as Quakers, and
I’ve been telling them a few things and
shocking their sensitive pride terribly.”
	“Suppose you tell me Hattie what its
all about.”
	“Its about getting married, and I don’t
mind saying there are too many of us for
you to keep, and as for Jonathan and Sam-
uel they are too old for any nice girls now,
and the house is too small any way for so
many of us, and we haven’t a married one
in all the family,” and Hattie stopped to
catch her breath.
	Judge Denton as solemnly as though he
were passing sentence in a court room in-
quired, addressing himself to the goodly
company of young women, “What do you
propose?”
	Hattie not in the least abashed, though
the others winced perceptibly, replied
laughingly “to have some weddings. Thanks
giving ought to be for something useful. I
have an idea the most useful thing in this
house would be weddings, and then we
wouldn’t have to add any more wings to
the old mansion. Its time we had a wed-
ding any way, and what could be more de-
lightful, we’ve all got white dresses and
black dresses and all sorts of finery, and
Judith and Elsie have been teaching and
boarding round here-and there until every
country village about in Maine and Ver-
mont wants a change.”
	“Is that all, have you finished?” said the
Judge.
	“No pa, that isn’t all, but if I can have a
wedding, I don’t care if its my own and let
the old maids go on teaching if they like it.
Elsie says they do good in the out of the
way places helping to civilize people. But
they’re not doing much at self help, wearing
their lives out teaching other people’s chil-
dren when they might be improving the
race by having some of their own?”
	“Isn’t that a doubtful question whether it
would be an improvement?” the Judge sug-
gested, not really knowing what to say to
his saucy little daughter.
	“Of course its according to whom they
marry.”
	“Evidently you’ve been studying physi-
ology,” said Elsie.
	“And several other ’ologies, and the
philosophy of marriage, and looking at the
matter from a financial standpoint, pa can
marry without a fee, so we needn’t consider
that side of the question.”
	“Joking aside, this is altogether carrying
things too far. its not becoming,” protested
Judith, “and we’re wasting our precious
time with all this nonsense, and the baking
will be spoiled.”
	“And your reputation as good house-
wives, eh Judith!” provokingly put in
Hattie. “Well pa we’ll have a wedding
this Thanksgiving if I have to suggest it
myself to one of the many bachelors who
frequent this house; and if one of you girls
don’t marry why I’ll run away to Vermont
and get married, as I’m not of age yet, so
if you want to preserve the family honor
immaculate, get married.”
	The Judge was puzzled. He knew it
was time the girls were married, he was
getting old, and the two older ones had
been teaching twenty years, and he believed
in marriage, had settled in life when young
himself and he was often sort of chaffed
about his seven unmarried daughters, and
always replied that they were all in love
with their father, which was true in a way,
for they had not seen his like any where.
But really it was a serious matter, and no
one had ventured to broach the subject be-
fore, but Hattie had been the pet of all the
family and took liberties that no other mem-
ber of the household would have done upon
any account,and as she had just come home
from Augusta and had been mingling with
crowds of girls who were out from the con-
trol of parental authority, and talked freely
to each other as school girls do, she made
bold to lay hold of both horns of the dilem-
ma at once, much to the discomfiture of her
sisters who had been so disciplined in their
day with a sedate father and a mother who
was so engrossed with domestic duties, that
she hadn’t time to marry the girls; this was
one of her frequent excuses to those who
alluded to the matter in her presence, as
neighbors will in New England pry into
family affairs, even if you are miles away.
	The Judge withdrew not knowing what
to say and Hattie flew after him, rattling
away until they reached the door of her
mother’s room, when all blushes and half
inclined to cry, she sat down at her mother’s
feet and without waiting opened the ball.
	“Ma don’t you think we ought to have a
wedding this Thanksgiving? Judith and
Ben Warner have been keeping company
about seventeen years, why can’t they get
married? I want to invite Almira Newton
home with me next vacation and have the
south chamber fixed up fine, everything
renovated, and Bettie says everybody can
see our minister is in love with Sarah Ann.”
	“Why Hattie, think of his children,
twins too, and his wife not a year dead, do
you know what you’re saying my dear?
We are happy as we are, don’t turn the
house upside down with new ideas, you’re
only the baby remember.”
	“A very much over-grown baby now ma,
I have seen a few things since I went to
Augusta, even Aunt Lottie thinks its too
hard on pa to have such a house full.”
	“Your Aunt Lottie shouldn’t be filling
your head with rubbish, she has too much
time and too much money, and thinks we
are slow in Berrytown I know, but her boys
are spending her money all right since the
Colonel’s death,” the Judge replied.
	Lottie was Judge Denton’s sister and had
married a rich man and lived high, kept up
an establishment that fairly frightened her
relatives away, and in her husband’s life-
time paid little attention to her brother and
his family (he had been in the habit of call-
ing on her when his business took him to
Augusta twice a year or oftener) but after
her husband’s death having no daughters,
had entreated him to let her have one out
of the seven, and when the Judge and his
wife talked the matter over they decided to
let Hattie go to Augusta to school and stay
with her aunt meantime, and she had made
good use of her eyes and ears, for her aunt’s
house was the resort of fashionable peo-
ple, many of them women who had been
abroad, and had imbibed ideas not alto-
gether in keeping with Puritanism, and
Hattie had come home determined on mak-
ing a domestic revolution. She had hinted
it to Ruth, her sister next older, who fully
agreed with her and had noticed of late her
mother’s failing health, and dreaded the
time when unexpectedly there might be a
funeral in the family, and she knew if
mother went father would not be long. She
had been her mother’s “stay and staff” and
always took care of her in the sweetest way,
made her the daintiest caps and washed her
pretty laces. Mrs. Denton was always and
ever the lady, and the girls were all proud
of their mother, who had been a sort of belle
in her day and had many sweethearts, and in
her own mind she often wondered why her
girls had not been sought after, but gener-
ally came to the conclusion that it was be-
cause they were isolated and had come away
up in that out of the way place, just as the
older girls were beginning to go into com-
pany. Judge Denton left his city practice
in Portland when summoned to the death
bed of his father and promised him to keep
up the old home, and in fact he had met
with heavy losses through trusting his
friends and was grown distrustful; and
thought to settle down on the old farm and
hold on to the land which had been his
father’s pride and highest ambition, would
be more satisfactory after all than battling
for a place among the many of his personal
friends who were striving for office. Mrs.
Denton had taken it hard at first, for she


[Column 1]
had been much in so called society, but
with a family of seven already, she felt that
it was her duty to stay at home, so made no
demur at the change and her husband
never knew it cost her any effort to ac-
quiesce in his wishes.
	Though the Judge moved into the coun-
try he did not escape elections and served
many terms on the bench, and was known
far and wide for his just and equable deci-
sions, especially in criminal cases. He was
beginning to feel very old now with chil-
dren over forty, and his eldest son had seen
half a century and more, but Jonathan was
a fairly good lawyer, and Samuel had filled
several public offices in his own town, and
Elijah was a rising young doctor getting a
good practice around home though the
plain country folks doctored with herbs
mostly and were rather afraid of Apothe-
cary doctors. The girls had all been edu-
cated in the usual branches for young wo-
men sixty or seventy years ago, and two of
them had taken teaching as a profession,
and while Hattie argued with her mother,
the Judge “pondered these things in his
heart.”
	Before night a heavy snow was falling
and in the early morning (for these New
Englanders always had breakfast by candle-
light) the fences were not to be seen. Ruth
and Hattie lifted the blind and looked dis-
mayed at the prospect, and the snow still
falling.
	“Well Ruth we’ll have the wedding any-
way, Ben Warner’ll be here and I’ll see to
the rest.”
 “And so will the Rev. Josiah Cum-
mings,” Ruth added, but in her heart
she kept a dainty, little secret no one knew
but herself and her lover, and the katydids
or whippoorwills who sang to the lovers
when they met, O, so seldom in the pine
woods, and she knew Edwin couldn’t come
on a day like this, and she sighed as she
said, “What a day for a wedding!”
	“Why Ruth this isn’t Thanksgiving,
and it isn’t your wedding day, there’s time
for us yet. I mean to be married in
Augusta, Aunt Lottie will look out for
that.” 
	At the breakfast table the conversation
was all centred in the snow-storm.
	“It’ll be a dull Thanksgiving,” the
Judge remarked, “no visitors from a dis-
tance roads all blocked, we must get out
the oxen boys, call Jake, David, and tell
him to yoke up Dick and Jerry and put on
a yoke of young steers, may be you girls
would like to go on the big sled and help to
break the road.”
	“How jolly!” all at once came from the
girls and boys, and the Judge went up to
mother’s room to tell Ruth who had taken
up the morning cup of tea. Ruth was very
grave and her father urged her to go, telling
her he would take her place by her mother.
	“Wrap yourselves up well,” he said, “for
its a cold day,” and Ruth heavy-hearted
left the room after kissing her ma, who as
soon as she had gone remarked, “Some-
thing ails Ruth.”
	“Nonsense,” the Judge replied, “she’s
the most sensible child we have, no non-
sense about her, takes care of the fowls and
looks after the house money, and is as sav-
ing and practical as her great grandmother
was, whom she resembles.”
	“Nevertheless mark my words there’s
something troubling her, I’ve noticed it of
late and since Hattie came home she has
been positively absent-minded.”
	But the Judge wouldn’t listen nor have

[Column 2]
her questioned, but at dinner, midday din-
ner in those days, he asked the doctor,
Elijah (of whose knowledge and skill he
was rather proud) if Ruth was ailing, at
which remark all the girls stared, (Ruth
was with her mother again as usual) but
the doctor only said heart-ache he guessed,
and Hattie provokingly queried, “Because
she hasn’t a beau?”
	“I don’t know,” jestingly the doctor re-
plied, “she’s the odd one of the family, she
may be the lucky one and astonish us all
by announcing her engagement,” and
Judith whose wise sayings were always ap-
preciated added, “There’s many a true
word spoken in jest.”
	And there the matter rested. Little they
thought what a shock was coming to the
family serenity.
	Meantime the great sled with its jolly
crowd swung out of the lane, and as the
quiet tall young men and women drove by
the scattered farm houses and on into the
great village, the folks turned out with
hallo’s and greetings glad to have the mo-
notony of the day broken into, as well as
the roads made passable. To one who has
never known this sort of thing it may seem
superfluous to tell such trifles, but if he had
lived in the northern states he could not
but be reminded what a blessing it is to
have these good natured old farmers hitch
up their teams with big, heavy sleds and
turn out on the cold frosty mornings and
let people know the whole world is not
dead, as one might almost fancy in the
dead of winter, when the white robe of
snow and ice has covered all nature with its
white mantle of drapery and turned the
rivers and fountains into marble.
	Before nightfall the house was full of
guests and every nook and corner, outside
the dining room, had a bed of some sort,
where the weary travelers might rest the
night before Thanksgiving.
	How jolly they all were except Ruthie,
who was so disappointed, for she had prom-
sed to be in the pine woods at the trysting-
place the evening before at sunset and that
was quite impossible, he must know it, she
thought, and he was such a restless,
thoughtless fellow he might venture to the
house, and then her heart stood still when
she reflected, and a thousand times over
and over she regretted that she had ever
consented to clandestine meetings. But she
consoled herself by thinking she had never
written to him, never accepted presents,
had not even promised anything only that
sometime if her father’s consent could be
gained she would be his bride. Often she
had decided to tell her mother, yet she had
never had the courage, she knew what her
mother would say, “It can never be, you
must give it up, your father will never con-
sent.” And so she had waited until now,
hoping, longing, fearing, dreading, grow-
ing paler and thinner, suffering untold
agony of soul. Of late Edwin had de-
clared he would face the inexorable Judge,
and she had plead for more time to consider
how it could be settled, knowing only so
little of the terrible feud between the fami-
lies of Dentons and Harwoods. And how
should she, the names were never mentioned
in her father’s house, and she met Edwin at
a yacht party up in the lakes, and it was
love at first sight with them both; she
would not have dared tell even that much
before her older sisters who always scoffed
at the idea, and so timid and yearning for
sympathy she carried about with her the
tender passion, feeding the flame with her

[Column 3]
inward craving for a fuller expression of its
intensity. Sometimes when alone she
cared not if all the world forsook her if she
could but see him once more, and when the
time came she trembled lest they should be
seen together, even by the birds that flew
over their heads, lest the relentless parents
should separate them forever. She would
even wait until she was as old as Judith or
older if only Edwin would be as circum-
spect as Ben Warner. But he was rash
and impetuous and threatened to go to sea
or to join the army or go to the north
pole, or any where away from Berrytown
if she would not either consent to a private
marriage or face her father’s anger.
	The evening before Thanksgiving was
one long remembered in that household.
Such music, such songs and stories, with
glad voices and smiling faces! The Judge
was in his jolliest humor, and the sweet
mother glancing from one to another of her
happy group and not one missing. Every
preparation for the morrow’s feasting had
been made, and for the eleven o’clock serv-
ice in the village meetinghouse three miles
away. Indeed the older girls were to sing
in the anthem and wear green ribbons (a
village custom) and though they had guests
they must attend meeting, it was a part of
their country life.
	At twelve o’clock prayers were said and
a fervent prayer offered that all might enjoy
the full thanksgiving of hearts made glad,
on the morrow.
(Continued on page seven.)


[Column 1]
Continued from page three.
	The great sleigh was brought into the
lane after breakfast and the singers were
soon spinning over the beautiful snow.
Ruth was on the look out for the face of
her lover, and ere long she spied him on
horseback signaling to her from a distance.
Jonathan detected him and wondered what
it meant, he too was riding and was near
the sleigh, and was annoyed. Calling to
the girls he said, “Which of you is Ed
Harwood waving to?” Ruth was breath-
less and all the others answered in chorus,
“We don’t know him even, it must be you
he wants.” Momentarily he turned his
horse and galloped after him.
	Ruth saw the maneuver and realized that
something was going to transpire.
	Jonathan coming up to the young man
bade him “good morning” and inquired
what was wanted.
	“Why to speak to your sister Ruth, can
I see her in the meeting house ?’’
	“Not unless you have my father’s per-
mission, I was not aware that you knew
her.” And without waiting longer Edwin
Harwood turned back to the house and
riding up hurriedly inquired for Judge Den-
ton and was admitted without delay, as no
one knew him and supposed he had come
on business. He no sooner saw the Judge
than he told his errand quickly. The fath-
er calm and self-possessed asked him if he
loved Ruth, where had he seen her and
why had he come in such an imperious
fashion so early in the morning, half a
dozen questions in one. To all of these
the young man answered hurriedly, adding
his father had forbidden him to enter the
house again or speak to his mother if he
persisted in keeping the company of one of
the Denton family.
	The Judge coolly listened to every word,
and when young Harwood had finished
said, “I am sorry for you, but you are
young and strong, strike out for yourself,
with your education you can face the
world alone, until your father relents.”
	“Alone never. Ruth loves me and I
will marry her with your consent.”
	"I cannot give it sir, she is the very ap-
ple of my eye, and you have been winning
her without my knowledge it appears, and
now when your father refuses, you expect
me to yield after having been deceived, it
is too much!” and the Judge strong and
self-reliant as he had always been grew
pale and trembled.
	A moment Harwood waited thinking the
Judge would give way, but meantime the
young doctor drove up, who had been out
to see his patients and his father looked to
him the moment he entered the porch where
the conversation had taken place, and said,
“Lije settle with this man I cannot, but he
must not see your sister Ruth.”
	When the Judge had closed the door Ed-
win burst out impetuously, and the doctor
saw at once how matters stood and prom-
ised to befriend him.
	“It will pretty near kill the Judge to give
in, but I’ll do my best for you. I suspect-
ed something of the sort, in fact I saw you
and my sister together on one occasion. I
thought it might have been an accidental
meeting, however, although I was aware
you met at the lakes last summer, and she
has not been like herself of late."
	The fact was the young man showed such
spirit that he won the doctor’s sympathy, 
and he felt how cruel it would be to separ-
ate those young people because of a quarrel

[Column 2]
half a century ago. He urged the young
man to exercise a little self-control until he
could reason with his father, and promised
to stand by his sister whatever happened.
	Poor little Ruth had been very nervous
all through the sermon, and she fairly
broke down during the singing and never
tried a note. When meeting was out and
they started homeward she shook so it was
impossible not to observe it, and when she
reached the house had to be put to bed, her
brother, the doctor, was called, and this
was his opportunity.
	He soon found out that she was quite as
much in love as the young man, and made
up his mind let what would come he would
help them. The house was full of visitors,
but they were all kinsfolk, and it helped
more than hindered because his father was
occupied, and he had not been told how ill
Ruth was.
	In his conversation with his sister he
said, “Its very evident that Edwin will
have to leave here, he is a brilliant fellow,
can get good recommendations from college
friends and would succeed anywhere; but
he will not go without you, now I will en-
deavor to get father’s consent to the mar-
riage and I will go away with you and see
you settled.”
	Ruth protested against leaving her moth-
er, though she had often fancied before-
hand that she could leave every one for her
lover.
	Hattie was called in and was so delight-
ed that she could scarcely be pursuaded to
keep quiet.
	“And the wedding will be a reality after
all, and it must be today, and let me tell 
Judith and Sarah Ann, and they will be
jealous.”
	“No, no, little sister, you are not to tell 
any one yet, I will see the Rev. Josiah
Cummings, and Ben Warner, and will
manage it all this very day after dinner.”
	And the doctor’s ingenuity and tact
served him well, he arranged all the details
and then sprung the question to his father
when he was in the very gayest spirits after
a fine dinner, and though he demurred at
first he was over-ruled by the strong will
of his son.
	Meantime Ben Warner and the minister,
(who were dining at the house) getting
courage from the success of young Har-
wood made bold to ask for the girls, Judith
and Sarah Ann, and the Judge was more 
than willing to consent.
	"I can give my daughters to you with-
out any misgivings, both sterling men of
good family, but this rash young Harwood
who comes to me and demands Ruth, tell-
ing me he will have her with or without
my consent, I shall not say yes. The
doctor takes all the responsibility. I simply
leave the matter in his hands.”
	“Oh, that’s all right Judge, he has great
courage.”'
	“Far too much just like his family, I
want none of them,” and the good minister
seeing the Judge grow angry said, “But
the question is who is to perform the cere-
mony for me? I have promised Ben Warn-
er, and the doctor has asked me to marry
Ruth and Edwin, now Judge will you per-
form the ceremony as well as to give me
my wife?”
	“To be plain with you, I don’t care to
have any hand in this business; who ever
heard of a sober Puritan family getting to-
gether and making matches on Thanks-
giving instead of conducting themselves


[Column 1]
with propriety as becomes the day, and by
George, the house full of company to see
and hear it all!”
	“The company need not know every-
thing, they will be the guests of honor to
wish the brides happiness and drink their
health, let them believe the whole matter
understood, as in fact it seems to have been.”
	“But what will mother say?” the Judge
interposed, “she will never consent to such
out of the way doings, and the first wedding
in the family.”
	“Leave mother to me and to Hattie who
has been trying to get somebody married
ever since she came home.”
	“I’ll have nothing to do with this inde-
cent haste, the house turned topsy turvy to
please this madcap Harwood, its all his do-
ings, sober-minded men would never think
of such haste.”
	“But Warner here and the minister have
both been trying to ask you and had not
the courage, now that Harwood has opened
the ball who knows what may happen? We
may all marry soon, Hattie wants to intro-
duce all sorts of new-fangled notions, and a
triple wedding is rather novel in a staid
Yankee home.”
	“Yes Lije an unheard of thing, and for
my part I’m ashamed of it, even if there
are eleven in family I’ve always been proud
and glad to have my children with me, and
as for the girls I don’t care to spare one of
them, the house is big enough and I’m
not, anxious to be left alone at my time of
life, not even with mother. By George, I
don’t like this way of doing business, and
that Harwood, I can’t have him here with
his airs and impudence and his own father
turned him out, my daughter marry one of
that family!” and the Judge broke down
completely.
	However the buoyancy of the brides and
bridegrooms elect, and particularly of Hat-
tie who flitted from room to room with the
help, and brightened all the place with the
evergreens and pine and ornamentation such
as could be improvised at a moment’s notice,
besides consulting with her older sisters
about their finery, and it was surprising
what Judith and Sarah Ann had put away
for special occasions.
	“And the special occasion,” Hattie told
them, “was a wedding of course, for you
never go to balls, and these things are only
suitable for evening ball dresses or a wed-
ding”. And so she teased them, but poor,
little Ruth was left to herself and slept un-
der the soothing influence of her good
brother’s assurances, and at dinner refused
to go down, in fact she gave no thought
about what she should wear any more than
the lilies of the field, which she so much re-
sembled, when at last she rose reluctantly
and was daintily attired in one of Hattie’s
party dresses.
	After dinner when the guests and part of
the family were assembled in the quaint,
old, dark parlor with a huge fire of pine
knots, in walked the minister and Judith
and Ben Warner; and the doctor who was
the prime-mover in the affair explained to
the visitors that there was a surprise for
them, and he was quite sure they would all
enjoy it. And then without further cere-
mony the Judge gave his eldest daughter to
Ben Warner, and the minister in a few
words united them for life. Congratula-
tions followed, but the doctor interrupted
them and announced quickly that the min-
ister was so elated over marrying other peo-
ple that he wished to be married himself,

[Column 2]
and brought forward his sister Sarah Ann
and the Judge made quick work of the cere-
mony.
	Pale and yet blushing came demure little
Ruth escorted by her great brother the law-
yer—who gave her to the handsome, dash-
ing man that none of the guests knew even
by sight. The minister turned from his
bride and the ceremony was over before the
astonished company had time to compre-
hend the situation.
	Instead of gaiety and merriment a solemn
silence fell upon the gathering, and they
sat and watched the flickering flames of the
great pine fire, and scarce a word was spok-
en and no inquiries made.
	The doctor was the only talkative one
and even he was inclined to reticence; no
explanations were given and it was diffi-
cult to understand whether the whole affair
was a reality or a huge joke.
	Morning, however, brought changes; the
minister and his bride were missing from
the family table, having gone to the parson-
age, Judith and Ben to the Warner home,
and Ruth and the doctor had flown. Hattie
however, was equal to the occasion and
kept up the conversation at breakfast with
a very good grace, though she was not so
well pleased with the culmination of affairs
as she had anticipated when she determined
on getting somebody married. Her father’s
frowns and her mother’s pale face were a
constant reproach for years afterwards,
although no real blame could attach to her.
	Her brilliancy attracted the attention of
the numerous relatives, tho’ much of her
gaiety was assumed for the time being. A
distant cousin, one of the time-honored
Russell family, was so enamored of her wit
and beauty that he followed her up with
tender love letters, and later on they cele-
brated their nuptials in Augusta with all
the elegant paraphernalia the city afforded.
	Dr. Denton and Mr. and Mrs. Harwood
settled in Western New York, and many
years elapsed before they visited the old
home in Berrytown. Judge Denton and
his amiable wife had passed away and the
house was lonely enough with the bachelor
brother Samuel, Jonathan had gone to Port-
land to practice law, David had married
and set up in business for himself in the
county adjoining. Drucilla had been
widowed and returned home with two or-
phan children, and Hannah and Elsie had
both married Smiths, as Hattie predicted,
and gone to homes of their own.
	Ruth never regretted her marriage but
always longed for her mother and the dear
ones; but one often realizes the hand
of destiny in separations that in themselves
were regretful, and so it was with the Den-
tons who from force of circumstances drifted
westward, and when a new Gospel was
preached in their locality being alone as it
were, without ties of relationship to oppose,
the way was open for them without so
much opposition as they must otherwise
have encountered, and Ruth and Edwin
were among the early converts to the new
faith, and although the doctor was a free
thinker and never accepted baptism, yet he
was a friend to the people, and eventually
the Harwood family which was also a large
one had the privilege of doing vicarious
work for those who had rejected them and
cast them off to face the world alone, and
thus the Thanksgiving day of disappoint-
ment became in turn a remembrance which .
proved a more lasting Thanksgiving than
feasting and social enjoyment. But the

[Column 3]
poet spoke truly when he wrote 
	“But Heaven hath a hand in all these things.”
	And in this case as in many other instan-
ces, what seemed a great calamity was a
blessing in disguise though they knew it
not, but in the years that followed many
were the thanksgivings offered to Him who
rules and over-rules the destinies of those
who are to take part in His work upon the
earth.
						E. B W.


