[Vol54 | January 1967 | Page 22 | Special Feature | To the Grand Teton Second Prize Poem Alice | Morrey Bailey]
21 SECOND PRIZE POEM 22 TO THE GRAND TETON Alice Morrey Bailey 1 I have seen your head in purple storm, Serene, unpierced by lightning's rapier twist, Impervious to thunderbolt, your form Ethereal or bold in moving mist. At day, a monarch, ruling—jewel-crowned And virgin-peaked, lake-mirrored gray and blue— A kingdom of contented sight and sound— The legioned pines, the moose-cow in the slue. No fear is on this land, yet at your feet, Thin-covered by the earth's uncertain crust, Unfathomed forces lie and spout their heat In geysered vent and deep, infernal thrust. And now, moon-bathed, your splendor glows with light In opal-fired and iridescent night. On such a silver night as this a quake Exploded Hebgen's summer-shadowed floor And slid a mountain's tonnage, tipped a lake And stopped a river—stilled forevermore The laughter in the trees, the soft guitar, The scurryings where dust alone was breath, And here in testament a livid scar And fissured earth remain—and death. The cruel scarp along the mountain's length, The drowning trees, the shore, betray the fault Which undermined the valley's rock-ribbed strength— When all seemed peace—in ruinous assault. And where are they who trusted in its calm, Nor read the printed warning in its palm? If, suddenly, the force which gave you birth Erupts its epicenter at your base, Withstand the throes of inner-tortured earth, Meet threat with strength along your granite face, Travail with triumph. Ride the heaving crest. Let avalanche but serve to shore your beams, Survive as elk survive the antlered test. Let molten rock be solder for your seams. For you are symboled part of balanced law— No stature unassailed is proven might— Point and counterpoint; perfection, flaw. Lf still you stand as now in noble height When winds have swept the dark, volcanic cloud, I shall be full of joy. I shall be proud! Alice Morrey Bailey Second Prize Winner The Relief Society Poem Contest Alice Morrey Bailey, a versatile and gifted writer and sculptor, has been a repeated winner in the Relief Society literary contests. She won first prize in the short story contest the year of its initiation, 1942, and has won three times in subsequent years. This year's award in poetry places Mrs. Bailey as a winner for the sixth time. Other poems, many of them frontispieces, as well as stories, articles, and three serials have appeared in the Magazine. Mrs. Bailey is a member of the Sonneteers (a poetry workshop), the Utah State Poetry Society, Inc., of which she is presently corresponding secretary, the League of Utah Writers, and the Associated Utah Artists. She was a member of the Utah State Institute of Fine Arts for fourteen years, appointed by three successive governors to represent sculpture, and was prominent in formulating the Original Writing Contests now sponsored by the group. She is listed in Who's Who of the West. Her talents and abilities, in addition to her writing, include sculpture, music, secretarial work, and drafting. She presently conducts the Research Report Service at the University of Utah, where she has worked in various capacities for seventeen years. Mrs. Bailey has always been active in Church work, and is presently a member of the Wells Stake Sunday School Board. She is also a class leader in a second session Relief Society, and a member of the Ward Finance Committee (Whittier Ward). She is the wife of R. DeWitt Bailey, and they have three children, fourteen grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.