[Vol54 | January 1967 | Page 47 | Fiction | Rosa | Lee Lloyd]
Chapter 7 Tell Me Rosa Lee Lloyd "Tl get dressed," Julie said, reaching for her plaid skirt and bright yellow blouse. 'Casey Jones hasn't come home yet." "That dog!" Betz said. '""Don't worry. He'll come home when he gets good and hungry." "Y'm counting on that—unless he followed the men. His big meal is in the morning, so he might come early. This time ['ll put him on a leash. He won't get out of my sight again." '""He'll love that!" Betz laughed. Julie went to the kitchen. Cleo was already there preparing breakfast. "Isabelle insists on coming to the table this morning," she told Julie, with a wondrous smile. 'She says she feels better than she has for ages. Funny, what love can do for a woman. It brought her back from the very edge of the grave, if you ask me. Oh, I hope she keeps getting better! I hope, I hope, I hope!"' she said fiercely. "She must not slip back, Julie. I couldn't bear it while Dr. George is away." Julie wanted to tell her what 

47 January 1967

 Dr. George had said about a regression, but she could not break her promise to him. Instead, she asked, "Did you know he sent for Carolyn Bridges? Wally is to meet her plane at noon." "Well, no, I didn't know that. But I'm glad. We'd better put that old couch on the veranda in Isabelle's room. Carolyn can sleep there beside her. That way we'll know she's watched over. Wally will have to cut a pile of wood for the stove in there. It gets cold at night. I imagine Isabelle and Carolyn will hit it off together. They're about the same age." "Oh, yes," Julie murmured. "What kind of fruit or juice do we have, Aunt Cleo? Betz always likes fruit for breakfast." Cleo swung around from the stove. "You tell her Royal Highness to get out here and pitch in. We've dried apricots and dried apples that she can soak and stew." "But isn't there some tinned fruit?" Julie persisted. "T packed it all for the men," Cleo said. "It gets blistering hot out there. They need every little luxury I sent along. Wally can bring some things from the township this morning." "What about Aunt Isabelle? I promised Dr. George that she would have the very best. Fresh meat, too." Cleo nodded. "I've thought of that. You and I will go after some fresh meat this very day. We'll leave as soon as the nurse gets here. We'll take one of the old jeeps out where the sheep are grazing. How would you like a leg of lamb? Ummm. Smackin' good!" 48 "Perfect," Julie agreed. "Lamb is my very favorite." "Mine, too. That way we'll have some bones for Casey Jones." ry "Where is that kelpie?" Julie asked. "I've fixed his plate." "Beats me.' Cleo shook her head. "He is a bit off lately. He's always been the smartest dog in this bush. Uncle Rufe said he could bring in a flock of sheep all by himself. It's not often a dog can do that!" "He's eight years old," Julie said. "Grandfather knows how Ron loves him. That's why he sent him here to the station, so Ron could see him often when he came up from Perth." Julie bit her lip. "I hope he didn't follow the men, Aunt Cleo. He could get lost if they didn't see him." 'He might have gone,' she answered. "All I know for sure is that he's mighty troubled. He knows something's happened to Ron. Kelpies are gentle and peaceful unless something goes wrong. Then they go plumb daffy about it." During the morning the station house hummed with activity. Cleo had a job for everyone except Isabelle, and even she insisted on hemming a few flour sacks for tea towels. "Wally!" she called after him when he followed Betz out to the veranda. "We need heaps of wood cut. And Betz! There are piles of bugs to sweep out. Get busy, you two." "I was only telling her... Wally began. Cleo looked at him, her hands on her hips. "I know what you 9 were telling her, Wally Ridgehaven. Now, get going." Wally shrugged, rolling his eyes heavenward. "'You should've been a drover," he said. But he went outside to chop the wood. "That adorable rascal,' Cleo said to Julie, who was washing the dishes. '""'We love him to pieces, but we can't let him run us around. He reminds me of my Kip—red hair and tipsy smile. Gee, I'm lonely for those little pikers of mine." "Aunt Tricia will take good care of them," Julie assured her. "I know," Cleo said petulantly. "They won't even miss me." "You're their mother," Julie said. ""No one, not even wonderful Aunt Tricia, can take your place." Ciro looked at Julie. There were stars in her eyes. "Righto!" she said, with a sort of glory in her voice. "I'm their mother." She looked around briskly. ""Now, let's see. We've got to get a hustle on. I'll start the bread while you mix up the biscuits. Call your friend Betz, and I will show her how to fix this dried fruit. Those men will be plain starved when they get back here. They'll be sick of tinned stuff." At eleven o'clock Wally and Betz started for the township to meet Carolyn. Cleo and Julie stood on the veranda and watched them ride off together, their red and gold hair bright and beautiful in the midday sunshine. "Can't stop the whirlwind," Cleo said. "Say! Look up the road. I think that moving spot might be Casey Jones!" Tell Me of Love It was. He was limping toward them, so weak and trembly he could hardly drag his feet. Julie ran toward him. She knelt down in the dust beside him. He was soaking wet with sweat, breathless and gaunt, and there was a dripping scarlet wound on his shoulder. "He's been in a fight," Cleo said. "Probably with a _ dingo who's out there after our sheep! I'll get the wheelbarrow." They lugged him into the kitchen. Julie sat on the floor cradling his head in her lap. She bathed the wound with an antiseptic Aunt Cleo mixed up, then she coaxed him to swallow a bite or two of dog biscuit soaked in tinned milk. His brown eyes followed every move she made, pleading with her. He whimpered, trying to get up again. "What does he want, Aunt Cleo?" Julie asked. 'I know he's begging me for something." "I'm a bush woman, Julie. That gash on his shoulder was made by a dingo. And a big one. He wants us to follow him out there and shoot that dingo before he gets our sheep." "We'll go," Julie said. "As soon as Carolyn gets here to stay with Aunt Isabelle." After they had lunched, Julie hurried to her room to put on her high boots as a protection against poisonous snakes. "Why can't Wally go, too?" Betz asked. 'He really wants to go. Cleo promised to show him how to shoot better." "He is needed here, Betz. Aunt Isabelle might need something from the township. And we'll need more wood for the stove." 

49 January 1967

 "Then let me go with you," Betz kept on. Julie shook her head. "Aunt Cleo has your work planned. You have to watch the bread dough. When it rises, knead it down again. Let it rise the second time, then put it in the oven. Don't let it get too brown. In the meantime, scrub out the cooler with hot water and bicarbonate of soda. We'll have meat and things to store there." "Ts that all?' Betz flared out. "I'm just another Cinderella!" "You have to pay a price for your Prince Charming," Julie said. "Life on a Ridgehaven property is no picnic, Betz. Remember, Grandfather warned you. Is it worth it?" A little smile curved Betz' mouth. "It is!"' she said. "Where is the scrub bucket?" "Same place we keep the broom," Julie answered. Carolyn Bridges came in as Betz went out. Her eyes had wonder in them. "I can hardly believe it," she said, sitting on the edge of Julie's bunk. "Simply delighted. Your Aunt Isabelle is a_ different woman. I keep pinching myself to see if I'm really awake!" "I know," Julie smiled. "TI feel the same way. Did Dr. George tell you what he hopes has happened?" "He wasn't very explicit in his re," she answered. "But he did say it is either a regression or the results of cobalt treatments. We aren't ready to tell it yet. It will cause much comment." "I haven't told a soul," Julie said. Then she added to herself: Maybe the prayers of the Ridge- 50 havens and Dr. George's love had something to do with it. But this idea was only for her secret heart. "Guess I'm ready," she said, putting her rifle under her arm and pointing it downward. "Take care," Carolyn said. "I wonder if I'll ever outgrow being afraid of guns?" "It's being used to them," Julie told her. "My father taught me to use a rifle before I was nine years old. We lived way out in the Dead Heart country. A rifle was part of our way of life. Now prepare Aunt Isabelle and all of you for a beaut dinner." "I'll do that," Carolyn laughed, as she got to her feet. '""We'll be ready for a beaut dinner." Casey Jones leaped to his feet the minute he saw Julie and Cleo ready to leave. He whirled and whimpered, pawing at the door. Then he pulled at Julie's boots. "We'll take him," Cleo said, flatly. "I've a hunch he can lead us to that dingo. We've got to get him. One dingo means murder for our sheep. You have your grandfather's rifle, so J'll take Geoffrey's. It's the very latest, newer than John's. Now let's check. We have our water bags filled, plenty of bullets, and extra petrol." Aunt Isabelle came to, the doorway, looking radiant in her sky-blue dressing gown. She hugged each of them. "Good luck, dear ones," she said in her gentle, cultured voice. Casey Jones settled down on the floor of the jeep, dozing contentedly for several miles. Julie saw the fields of everlasting flowers before Cleo did. They were a rainbow of color and beauty that stabbed her heart. "Let's stop, Aunt Cleo," she coaxed. ''Ron told me of these flowers in his last letter. I want a bouquet." "So do I," Cleo said. "We pass Uncle Rufe's grave. I'd like to stop there and leave them on it." Casey Jones stayed in the jeep flowers. He barked several times as though impatient at the delay, but when they returned he lay down contentedly again. "Good kelpie," Julie crooned to him. A few miles farther on, they stopped near the roadside and Cleo trudged through the dust and bush to a rock-covered grave with an elaborate bronze headstone. Julie could not read the inscription from where she sat in the jeep. "He was the only parent I ever knew," Cleo said when she took the wheel again. ""My parents died in a willie-willie. Uncle Rufe was kind, courageous, and the best sheepman in the country. He worked as boss of the shearing sheds for your grandfather for forty years. Every drover and every shearer in all this area wanted to work for him. I used to go with him at shearing time and i 2 ~ Tell Me of Love cook for the men. I met John at the station back there. One look between us, and we were lost to each other. John knew he couldn't consult his father about our marriage. He would have said no—that his son could not marry the station cook. So John and I went down to Perth and were married. Now we have been through the New Zealand Temple." "What did your Uncle Rufe say?" Julie wanted to know. "Very little," Cleo answered, her mouth twisting. '""He knew it could mean his job with your grandfather. But he sat there in the kitchen that night that I told him and his eyes had a dreamy, faraway look as if he __ was thinking of someone I knew nothing about." "If it means your happiness," he said, ''then marry him. You'll be a fine wife. I'd say John Ridgehaven, Junior, is a lucky boy to have your love. That's all I'll ever say to his father. If he gives me the sack for that — well — there are other sheep yards in Australia. He doesn't own them all. Not quite!" "He didn't give Uncle Rufe the sack, and when he was killed in another willie-willie that hit out here five years ago, your grandfather came all the way from Sydney for the funeral. He brought that headstone you see engraved in bronze letters: 'Rufe Riley Quinn, for loyal and outstanding service'. Look, now we turn off at the next cattle guard. The sheep are out there about twenty miles." "There it is!" Julie said a few seconds later. When Cleo turned the jeep, 

51 January 1967

 Casey Jones leaped up, barking and growling. He pushed against them holding them in the jeep. "That kelpie is telling us something," Cleo said, puzzled. "Let's stay on this road north and see if he keeps quiet." Casey Jones settled down again, and for several miles he lay with his head on his paws. "There must be another crossing ahead," Cleo said. 'Watch him." WHEN they reached it, Casey Jones bounced to his feet, climbing over Julie, pawing at the door. "This looks like a dead-end trail," Cleo said. "But we'll follow him anyway." Julie opened the door. Casey Jones leaped out, ran up the trail, scarcely limping, then he ran back to them barking fiercely. "We'll stay inside the jeep," Cleo said, "and follow him. That poor old kelpie is worked up about something." They drove a mile from the highway over a bumpy dirt road. Casey Jones ran on ahead, then whirled and ran back to make sure they were following him. "Look," Julie cried out. '"There is a mob of kangaroos. Is that why he brought us here?" "I don't think so," Cleo said, her voice tense. 'Don't let that kelpie out of your sight. He knows where he is taking us." "But maybe we should get a kangaroo," Julie insisted. "Later," she said. '""Not now." Julie saw the danger sign before Cleo did. It was a five-foot plank of wood stuck down through the middle of a big bush to hold it against the wind. 52 "Danger. Blow-hole country" was painted on it in red letters. Julie's heart beat up into her throat. Blow-hole country! Cleo stopped the car. They got out without speaking. Each knew what the other was thinking. Casey Jones whirled and came back. He nuzzled his head against Julie, licking her hands, wagging his tail. They took their rifles and trudged through the bush, following the kelpie. Cautiously. Silently. A few yards away he stopped, body tense. Then he got down on his paws, crawling forward, inching his way toward the edge of a crater-like hole. "Stop!" Cleo warned Julie. "Don't walk there. If you have to follow him—if you think Ron is in that hole, then get down and crawl the way Casey did. That way you can feel with your 'fingertips if the earth is solid. Look — over there. That edge is broken off. Someone walked' too close and tumbled in!" Julie looked in the direction Cleo pointed out. There was a huge bush overhanging the hole. A piece of bright blue and white shirting was caught on a stiff branch. A cry tore from her heart. It was a piece of the shirt she had sent Ron for his birthday! She knelt down, then lay flat, holding her rifle above the ground. She lay flat as Casey Jones had done, crawling toward the hole. She gazed down into the darkness, sobbing: "Oh, Aunt Cleo! He's down there. That's a piece of his shirt on the bush, oh, Aunt Cleo!", (To be concluded) FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Activities All material submitted for publication-in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society superVisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Ry I I I i TTT LT) lt ' '! I aS THVT FAH HTT Cache Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers ''Singing Into Spring'' Concert March 31, 1966 Front row, standing, left to right: Neva Simonson, accompanist; Fredonna Dixon, soloist; Carma C. Spencer; Margene H. Liljenquist, organist; Katheryn P. Gibson, President, Cache Stake Relief Society; Bernice C. Baugh, chorister; Hazel E. Larsen, Second Counselor; Alice C. Smith, member, General Board of Relief Society; Una H. Wuthrich, First Counselor; Lucille S. Binns, Secretary-Treasurer; Melba Johnson, member, Cache Stake Relief Society board. Sister Gibson reports: " 'Music is the speech of the angels,' was expressed by Carlyle, and was affirmed by the voices of the Cache Stake Singing Mothers in their formal concert of joyful and spiritual music. 'Singing Into Spring' was the theme of the pre-Easter concert directed by Bernice C. Baugh, in which 130 women participated. Accompanists were Margene Liljenquist and Leona M. Pritchett. Seven ward choruses prepared two numbers each, with their own directors and accompanists, and the combined wards sang three selections. An inspirational narration was composed and spoken between numbers by Carma C. Spencer. Guest soloist was Fredonna Dixon, accompanied by Neva Simonsen. A vocal solo was sung by Camille S. Zahmel of Cache Stake. A violin duet was played by Lois Brown and Mira F. Baker, and a vocal sextette was also featured." 

53 January 1967

 Monument Park West Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Singing Mothers Present Concert, April 2, 1966 Clarice M. Cooper, President, Monument Park West Stake Relief Society, reports. "A very impressive spring concert was presented by the Singing Mothers on Saturday, April 2, 1966. A variety of music was beautifully sung, some spiritual, some patriotic, and some light. Outstanding special numbers ' were given by Blanche Christensen, soprano, and Beryl Smiley, contralto. A trio, composed of Carol Gray, Marie English, and Florence Parsons, accompanied by Elnora Gwynn,. And a reading by Nedra Potter completed the delightful program. "Hazel Perry, stake music director, and Lenore Grundman, stake organist, spent many hours organizing and directing the program, and the Singing Mothers were faithful in coming to rehearsals, which was apparent in the excellence of the performance. After the program, cookies made by the stake board members, and punch were served. "The concert was given as a means of making a little money for the stake Relief Society, with the wards receiving twenty-five per cent of the money from the tickets which they were able to sell. Everyone was cooperative and appreciative, and we feel that the performance was highly successful, both in promoting sisterhood, and in helping the stake financially." North Sacramento Stake (California) Presents Musical Dramatization "The Journey," April 1, 1966 Freda Thayne, President, North Sacramento Stake Relief Society, reports: "*The Journey' was used with permission from Melvina Allen and Geraldine D'Addabbo, East Mesa Stake (Arizona), who wrote the original script. It portrays the progression of one of the daughters of our Heavenly Father from pre-existence into mortality and back into eternal life. Our North Sacramento Stake Singing Mothers (approximately fifty) sang eleven selections, under the direction of Jeannine Eborn and Lynda Bradley of the Relief Society Stake Board. Among the selections rendered were the following: "To a Child, 'Stand in Holy Places,' 'Oh, That I Were an Angel,' and 'Eternal Life." Members of the stake were invited to bring their families, and the program was spiritual and uplifting for all. Approximately 400 attended." Liberty Stake (Utah), Eighth Ward Relief Society Presidency and Homemaking Leaders at Display, August 29, 1966 Left to right: Eulalia Jeppsen, homemaking leader; Leah Mecham, Counselor; Myrtle Richins, President; Arinia Cameron, Counselor; Irene Wagstaff, chairman of the art committee; Gertrude Gillmore, Secretary-Treasurer. Nettie E. Stout, President, Liberty Stake Relief Society, reports: "The picture represents a display of beautiful articles completed by a Relief Society where the majority of the members are seventy years or older. In the past five and a half years this society has made and sold 300 quilts, thus keeping alive the art of quilting. Besides Utah and the neighboring states, these quilts have gone to Japan, Germany, Old Mexico, New Zealand, Hawaii, Arizona, California, Michigan, and New York. The unique part about this quilting society is that the work of cutting, appliquéing, sewing, and preparation prior to the actual quilting, is done by homebound sisters. They prepare ahout, three quilts a month, and through these assignments fulfill the desire to be needed and wanted. Other homebound sisters crochet and embroider for the society. Through the leadership of Sister Richins, this ward organization has grown to a membership of 105. And to visit their meetings is to experience the true love of sisterhood." 54 ' "

55 January 1967

 Oakland-Berkeley Stake (California) Presents ''Relief Society in Panorama" May 21, 1966 "Woman Suffrage - 1888,'' presented by Berkeley Ward, left to right: Faye Lloyd; Margaret Williams; Roma Sabine; Afton Whitehead; Pat Moore; Marjean Moore; Gerry Cook (hidden); Annette Jensen. Margaret S. Fife, President, Oakland-Berkeley Stake Relief Society, reports: "TI am sure that it is the general opinion of those who saw 'Relief Society in Panorama," which concluded our year's activities, that it was undoubtedly one of the finest productions which has ever been a part of the Oakland-Berkeley Stake Relief Society program. The cast of more than 200 included members of all the wards in the stake, together with the stake Singing Mothers chorus, which made it possible for all of our sisters who wished to do so to participate in one way or another. " 'Relief Society in Panorama' had its inspiration at the 1965 Relief Society Annual General Conference, from the tableau presented in the Presidencies Department. We decided that the highlights of the Relief Society history had great possibilities of not only being presented historically and authentically, but also in an interesting and entertaining way, depicting the pathos, the inspiration, the hardships, and the progress of the Society. We were able to highlight the organization in Nauvoo, the death of the Prophet, the crossing of the plains, and the establishment of Relief Society in Utah. We pictured the sisters' part in the suffrage movement, and by means of a delightful fashion parade, depicting their part in the Utah Territorial Centennial Fair. When we reached the year 1907 our story featured the organization of Relief Society in California, in the Oakland Branch. From that year until 1966, the highlights concerned the development of Relief Society in our own stake. The pageant was written and coordinated by Margaret S. Fife, with Annabell W. Hart and Mary R. Burton in charge of the music."