[Vol54 | January 1967 | Page 14 | Special Feature | Relief Society Memorial Bell Tower Belle | S. Spafford]
13 Relief Society Centennial Memorial Bell Tower President Belle S. Spafford [Address Delivered at the Services Commemorating Bell Tower Completion, September 29, 1966] w A quarter of a century ago, the General Board of Relief Society and the sisters in the stakes and missions of the Church under the leadership of President Amy Brown Lyman, busily engaged themselves in preparing appropriate observances for the 100th anniversary of the founding of Relief Society. The Church-wide celebration was planned to be held in connection with the Relief Society General Conference, April 1942. (At that time, Relief Society held semi-annual conferences.) A number of impressive and significant programs were planned, designed to make the Centennial an epical period in the history of Relief Society. As plans moved forward, however, Sister Lyman and _ her board began to feel a need for a permanent memorial—something that would endure long after the 100th birthday was passed. From 14 Howard Barker an article in The Relief Society Magazine (November 1941, page 769) by Mary Grant Judd, Chairman of the Centennial observance, I quote:... Unless we do something about it, the time will come when this wonderful occasion will be a thing of the past and will live only in our memories. And so it has come to the General Board with ever-increasing clearness that some permanent memorial should be left—something of lasting value. The Centennial Observance Committee, consisting of Mary G. Judd, Edith S. Elliott, Rae B. Barker, and Anna B. Hart, was assigned to make recommendations and work out details for the permanent memorial project. Again I quote from Sister Judd: Casting about for a suitable project, the idea came to mind of hanging the historic Nauvoo Temple bell in a permanent and beautiful setting.... . = ork " * ~ Courtesy, Salt Lake Tribune Services at the Completion of The Relief Society Memorial Campanile, September 29, 1966 Elder Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve, offering prayer at the podium; President Hugh B. Brown, of the First Presidency, seated, fifth from the right behind the podium; Elder S. Dilworth Young, of the First Council of Seventy, seated in front of the podium third from the right. General President of Relief Society Belle S. Spafford seated seventh from the left behind the podium. We feel that it is peculiarly fitting that the Relief Society should sponsor this project because one of the reasons for the organization of our Society in Nauvoo was to enable the Latter-day Saint women more efficently to do their part in feeding and clothing the men who were working on the Temple where the bell originally hung. There is still another tie connecting us with the bell. In the same pioneer company which transported this valuable relic to the West came Eliza R. Snow,... And safe in her keeping, in the covered wagon that lumbered over the plains, were the precious minutes of our founding meeting. Sister Lyman was enthusiastic over the erection of a permanent Centennial memorial, not alone in recognition of a highly significant event in the history of the Church—the founding of Relief Society—but in recognition of the lofty position accorded women in the restored gospel. She responded warmly to the idea of a Campanile for the Nauvoo Temple bell, for she knew the ties that bound Relief Society to this historic vessel. The First Presidency — President Heber J. Grant, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and Pres- I ident David O. McKay — gave the General Board "not only their permission but their enthusiastic encouragement" to go forward with the erection of the bell tower on Temple Square. Accord- 

15 January 1967

 Photos by Howard Barker ing to General Board records, it was later learned through the Presiding Bishopric, that the idea of hanging the Nauvoo bell in a permanent setting had been under consideration for some time, but no definite decision had been made. The sisters felt that perhaps the decision "had been slowed up in order that Relief Society might have the privilege." The structure was to be built by small contributions from Relief Society members. The service of an able architect, Brother Lorenzo Snow Young, a grandson of Brigham Young and a grandnephew of Eliza R. Snow, was enlisted to design the tower. The base was to be of granite, the top of grilled bronze to harmonize with the bronze bell. There were to be four plaques in bas-relief—one on each of the four sides near the: base. The plaques were to be designed by an eminent Utah sculptor, Dr. Avard Fairbanks, with three of the series, in turn, titled: 'Pioneering,"' "Education," and "Benevolence."' The fourth was to be an inscription plaque, a tribute to the sisters and their work, entitled: "The Relief Society Centennial Memorial." Work on the project moved forward. The granite was delivered; the bronze grillwork top was made ready; the plaques were cast, when, suddenly, the tragedy of war came upon us. Many of the regular activities of Relief Society had to be curtailed, some temporarily discontinued. Centennial plans had to be greatly modified and work on the Campanile was stopped, including the financial contribution program. Materials were stored Relief Society Centennial Memorial Bell Tower in facilities arranged by the Presiding Bishopric, to await a favorable day for the completion of the historical memorial. It was not until 1945 that activities were restored to normal. In April 1945, a new Relief Society Presidency was named — President Belle S. Spafford, with Marianne C. Sharp and Gertrude R. Garff as Counselors, succeeding President Amy B. Lyman, Marcia K. Howells, and Belle S. Spafford. Shortly thereafter, death claimed President Heber J. Grant, and a new Presidency of the Church was sustained—President George Albert Smith, with President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and President David O. McKay as Counselors. President Smith endorsed the erection of the Campanile on Temple Square, making clear to the new Relief Society Presidency their responsibilities to complete the project which had meant so much to Sister Lyman, her Board, and the sisters of Relief Society. Because of the urgent need of Relief Society for a headquarters building, however, which involved a big collection program, President Smith and his Counselors deemed it advisable to hold in abeyance the completion of the memorial until the Relief Society Building was erected and dedicated. Prior to the completion of the Building, President Smith was called home, and President McKay was sustained as President of the Church, with Elder Stephen L Richards and Elder J. Reuben Clark, Jr., as Counselors. Through the years, President McKay, familiar with the history of the memorial, has not lost ERUCATION aes 

17 January 1967

 sight of this uncompleted project. From time to time the question of its completion has been considered with the Relief Society Presidency. At no time has there appeared to be any thought of abandoning the project. It was a happy occasion when, on August 19, 1966, the Relief Society Presidency received word that authorization had been given by President McKay to go forward immediately with the erection of the structure. It was to be located on Temple Square at a site agreeable to the Relief Society Presidency and the Temple Square Committee. The site determined upon by those two groups was midway between the Tabernacle and the Assembly Hall, toward the west wall of the Square. In response to the express desire of the General Presidency, authorization was granted to meet the costs of completing the structure from General Board funds. Brother Howard Barker, a former member of the Church Building Committee, assigned to the Campanile project, and a man who has shown dedicated interest in the memorial through the years, has devoted endless hours to locating and assembling the stored parts, a number of which had been moved from their original storage place. Fortunately, every part was located. Elder Mark B. Garff and his associates on the Building Committee promptly took hold of the erection of the structure, putting forth special effort to have it ready for viewing during this conference. We are, therefore, pleased to announce the completion of the Relief Society Cen- 18 tennial Memorial — a project initiated a quarter of a century ago. We acknowledge with grateful appreciation the support and cooperation of Elder Mark E. Petersen, Chairman of the Temple Square Committee, and his associates on the committee. These brethren have been understanding and considerate. We appreciate the efforts of Brother Mark B. Garff and his associates, and Brother Howard Barker for his valuable service. To our present First Presidency, President David O. McKay, Presidents Hugh B. Brown, Nathan Eldon Tanner, Joseph Fielding Smith, and Thorpe B. Isaacson, we express most humble and grateful thanks for their interest and concern in bringing to fulfillment the dream of Sister Lyman, her Board, and the sisters of the Centennial day that there should be on Temple Square a permanent memorial which you, today, may have the choice privilege of viewing at the close of this meeting—a memorial erected to the honored position of women in the gospel plan; a Centennial Memorial honoring the founding of Relief Society; a memorial approved by three great Presidents of the Church, President Grant, President Smith, and President McKay. And here shall hang the bell known as the Nauvoo Temple Bell — a treasured bell to be preserved in a new and beautiful setting for all to enjoy. And as people pause to view it in its new setting, may their vision be opened to the importance of the place and work of the women of the Church. w The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the three winners in the 1966 Relief Society Poem Contest (formerly the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest). The first prize of forty dollars is awarded to Miss Barbara J. Warren, Lukachukai, Arizona, for her poem "The Navajo Rug."' The second prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Alice Morrey Bailey, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "To the Grand Teton."' The third prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Mabel Harmer, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem ''Naomi to Ruth." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1924. The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society General Board, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.