[Vol54 | January 1967 | Page 27 | Special Feature | Who Loves Here? First Prize Story | Myrna Clawson]
26 Myrna Clawson First Prize Winner The Relief Society Short Story Contest Who Loves Here? Myrna Clawson w So that everything would go perfectly, Andrea had spent her entire day preparing for this evening. A chicken and _ rice casserole was waiting in the oven, tossed green salad and banana cream pie were ready, too. She had checked to be sure she had the table all set in the dining room. Bert would be home any minute, they would eat and then get ready for the concert — a pop concert to be conducted by Theodor Ravinsky. Andrea and Bert had attended one of his concerts when they were in college ten years before; and for Andrea no other conductor could equal him. Why wasn't Bert home, wondered Andrea? She decided to remove the rollers and comb her hair out while she waited; this would save time later. She 27 ee atten brushed the hair back from her forehead then teased and flicked the auburn tresses into place. Leaving the mirror, she glanced at herself again, pushed a curl back from her cheek and smiled. She felt warm and wonderful; it had been a long time since she had been so happy, so excited! With almost a start, she realized that Bert wasn't home yet. Now their supper would be late and her schedule disordered. She asked the children to wash so that they would be ready to eat as soon as Bert walked in. He enjoyed dinner with the family; it was a time he could enjoy their reports of the day's experiences. Andrea looked out the front window to see if Bert might be coming, she went back to the dining 28 room, she paced into and out of the kitchen. Why was he late? Bert's arrival erased Andrea's anxiety; there was plenty of time to get ready for the concert. She gathered the four older children around the table and seated Kirk in his high chair. Baby Lucille, who had already eaten, jabbered from the playpen. "Where are you _ going, Mommy?" quizzed Vera, who was six. "Why can't we go?" chirped four-year old Patty. Kirk overturned his pie-filled plate on his head, beamed and announced, "Hat, hat!"' The questions were forgotten as the children broke into uproarious laughter. Andrea felt her plans crumbling around her. "Quiet down and finish your dinners!" she ordered. There was a grave, but short silence as she began to rescue Kirk from the pie. By the time she had the pie wiped off Kirk and the floor, Bert had excused himself and the children had almost finished eating. She cleared the emptied plates along with her unfinished pie. Andrea knew that what she accomplished now was only with permission of the unconcerned face staring at her from the wall. The solemn timepiece told her she had better be satisfied with stacking the dishes; she needed to be getting the children into their pajamas. Andrea sent Patty and Vera upstairs to their room to dress for bed while she undressed Kirk. He held up a bare foot and begged, "Piggy market?" Andrea played "Piggy market" with each foot, then Kirk pleaded, ''Gain." "How 'bout Itsy Bitsy Spider?" As the spider crawled up his arm he squealed and pulled his arm away. Taking his turn, he jumped his chubby hand, spider fashion, up his mother's arm. Andrea bounced him into her arms for a squeeze. He wiggled and squirmed, delighted. When it was time for him to put his feet into his pajamas, she was done with the play and demanded, "Hold still, Kirk! How can I dress you with all your squirming?" "Mommy," pleaded Patty from the stairway, "I can't find my pajamas." "Oh, no!"" Andrea half said and half thought. "I'll be right there as soon as I snap Kirk's top." Who Loves Here? She responded loudly enough for Patty to hear. The search snatched at Andrea's precious minutes and seized almost all of her composure in locating his pajamas — the top in the doll clothes drawer and the bottom under the bed. "I'll help you —" Andrea had started before the phone interrupted. Bert was in the shower so Andrea rushed down the stairs to answer it. THE oh-so-friendly voice on the line reminded, 'Don't forget PTA tomorrow afternoon at three!"' "Thank you," answered Andrea, dropping the receiver, "how could I forget it—three calls to remind me?" she mumbled. Noises coming from the kitchen told her that Kirk must be into something. Sure enough, he had helped himself to the Sugar Crisp and now, on the floor, was doing his best to put them back into the box, To Andrea, it was one crisis after another. The children, who had been hurried and felt their mother's excitement, were in high gear. By the time she had tucked Kirk and Lucille into the beds, Kevin and Dallon, seven and eight years old, had model airplanes in process on the living room floor. Andrea put an end to that. "How many times have I told you that there is to be no airplane glue used in this room? Now take all this mess to the nook table — and use a newspaper on the table!" Andrea's_ schedule indicated that it was time to leave for the concert. Thank goodness she had 

29 January 1967

 had practice in dressing in seconds. It seemed only moments later when Andrea, although flushed, came into her living room with the semblance of a model introducing next season's lines. The little girls eyed her as_ they would have looked upon a queen. Kevin bounded in and came to a halt. "You sure are pretty, Mom." Dallon, following, added, "I like your new dress." Andrea beamed—she felt like royalty. She was pleased with her accomplishments of the previous day, when she had finished making the silver-blue peau de soie dress with the empire waist. With a second admiring glance, one realized it was a maternity dress. Bert placed his arm around Andrea's waist. 'Shall we go, my dear?" She kissed each of the children goodbye and they stepped out the door just as the phone broke the captivating spell Andrea had begun to feel. As Bert talked, Andrea eyed her watch and calculated that there were only twelve and one half minutes remaining; then she comforted sobbing Patty, who had been the subject of Dallon's teasing, gave instructions for repairing a wing, to an airplane builder, and reminded the baby sitter about Lucille's bottle in the refrigerator. "Uncle Harold will only be here tomorrw morning?" Andrea quizzed Bert as he_ slipped through the first intersection on an amber signal. "I'm glad we didn't miss his call.'' Waiting for the second signal, she knew it 30 would be rare luck if they could buck the traffic in time to hear the first number tonight. Hurry, hurry, hurry since at least four in the afternoon. Bert and Andrea were in their seats now, but she still felt hurried. She wondered what the children might be into at home. It was past the announced curtain time — why the delay? Andrea, so keyed to a rushed schedule, was caught by surprise when Bert remarked, 'I'm glad we arrived early enough to enjoy the anticipation and excitement of the concert hall. Aren't you?". "Yes, I am," Andrea answered blankly. "You know that tooth that Kirk hit when he fell Saturday? Do you think it will turn dark?" The house lights began to dim, the curtain rose, Andrea began to forget. The first strains of melody were relaxing, and she was soon translated from her busy world of reponsibility into a world of music. At intermission, Andrea, enthralled with the performance, chatted with Bert. They were young again as they recalled the first Ravinsky concert they had attended. Andrea felt the romance of the earlier evening. Life was perfect. "Do you think the lady sitting beside you is alone?" Bert asked. A group of concert-goers who had been sitting on the other side of the lady had left. Andrea turned to her, '"'Isn't the music grand? It is so — so lovely I can't describe it. Vivacious, that might be the word." "I'm enjoying it," the lady answered. "I guess this music is special to me because I also know the ideals Theodor Ravinsky lives. Marvelous conductor and outstanding person!"" Andrea bubbled, "Isn't it something that such a man would even come to Bedlington? The paper said he came here by special request. He must be the finest conductor in our country." "Oh, do you think so?" replied the lady, who must have been in her eighties. She had noticed Andrea's dress and, after hesitating, she asked, "Is this to be your first child?" Andrea paused as stinging remarks she had heard before raced through her mind — "Are you PG again?" "Don't you know when to quit?" "No, this will be my seventh child,"" Andrea answered. "Really? How fortunate you are! Children are such a blessing and comfort. You see, I had seven youngsters myself." Andrea only heard part of the remark. The thought of children transported her back to the hustle, bustle, and confusion of one and a half hours ago. How could she be fortunate to have Who Loves Here? Another baby on the way, another demanding cry, another toddler under foot when she was busy, more diapers, more wash, more, more, more...? Tears welled, an unbearable lump was in her throat; she stared at the ceiling, trying to '. Prevent the tears from revealing her feelings. As the light dimmed iW' she felt relief and then suddenly ashamed — children were supposed to be a blessing! Trying to convince herself how truly fortunate she was, she felt, for a moment, she could control the tears; but instead her emotions controlled her and a tear burned down her face. Why couldn't she be thankful for one thing— that the musicians were ready and Maestro Ravinsky's baton, held high, would momentarily command and eighty-five musicians would follow its every stroke and hesitation? Music would fill the entire concert hall; its melody, vibrant strains and drama would again captivate Andrea. The baton flashed, the musicians came to life, and Andrea was filled with shock. The clash, the racing, the clamor of "The Carmen Overture" mockingly echoed the frequent turmoil of her own home. It was children running wildly in the house, children yelling, children bickering, children, noise, confusion, children, children, children.... She felt she couldn't stand another instant of being mimicked. Turning to Bert, enraptured with the majesty of the performance, Andrea resolved to conquer her emotions and enjoy the evening. Music softens the heart, music soothes, music lightens the load, 

31 January 1967

 music mellows. Andrea ignored her own thoughts and listened, watching the violins. She was swept away~- with the _lighthearted waltz from Strauss' "Gypsy Baron." With the final ovation, Bert nudged her elbow, "Let's go!"' Andrea, entranced, lingered to help the lady with her coat, then arose. Entering the aisle Bert looked back and proposed to Andrea, "She is alone?" "Yes,'' Andrea answered. The lady was still seated, so Bert returned to offer her assistance. She seemed grateful for his help and relied on his arm to steady herself. Reaching the lobby, Bert felt concerned for the woman. His eyes, asking what next, turned and met Andrea's sympathetic glance. "I'm meeting my son just over there," the lady offered. A wave of relief passed over Bert as he learned her plans. Accompanying her across the room, Bert suggested, '"We will wait with you until he comes." 'Would you?" She seemed glad that they would wait. Then turning obviously to Bert alone, in a whisper, she added, "I'd like your wife to meet my son." Bert was a bit baffled, and Andrea felt slighted by the hushed remark. Waiting, as they watched the crowd thin, Bert noticed a man coming toward them and turned to Andrea. 'Is that...?" "Thank you for waiting with Mother," the man interrupted. The lady smiled at her son, turned to Andrea, and said, "I would like you to meet my seventh child, Theodor Ravinsky." As Andrea checked each child before going to her bed, she tousled their hair and kissed their foreheads one by one. What wonderful blessings her children were to her. She hesitated in wonder before leaving the second room. Who are these children? Whom am I loving—teaching? A musician? A teacher? A_ president? A prophet? Who will my seventh child be? Myrna Clawson, Modesto, California, is a first-time winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest. ''Having my story awarded first prize is a humbling honor. My literary experience began about a year and a half ago, with a Brigham Young University correspondence course. In addition to 'Who Loves Here?' I have had two children's stories accepted. My husband Jim and I attended Brigham Young University in 1954, through 1956. There I enjoyed all the classes having to do with homemaking. We now have six busy children, ranging in ages from one to nine. "After spending six years in the Relief Society organization of our ward, I am now serving as counselor in the Primary. Jim serves as counselor in the bishopric. We find many challenges and much joy in serving the Lord through Church work and rearing our family. I am grateful for the opportunities for growth and understanding which the Church and Relief Society provide for young mothers."' 32 "Fiesta Mexicana," featuring thirty women dancers from Mexico City, is receiving enthusiastic acclaim in many nations, including France, Spain, Italy, Germany (Berlin), England, Japan, and the United States. The dancers bring to life, with authentic and beautiful costumes and music from ancient instruments, the ritualistic and preHispanic dances from Mayan and Aztec cultures. Among the dancers, Malinda Ortiz, Princess Teo Xochitel, Maria Luiza Ortix, and Antonieta Casas have received outstanding recognition. Maureen Forrester, one of the world's leading contraltos, 'flawlessly _ performed" the role of Cornelia in Handel's "Julius Caesar" in October for New York City Opera's opening production. "The rich tonalities of her deep velvet voice'' were highly praised. Of Scotch-Irish descent, she was born in Montreal, Canada, and is married to Canadian Conductor-Violinist Eugene Kash. Anna Kuulei Furtado Kahanamoku is the only woman member of the Hawaii State Senate. Reared on the island of Maui, she was early influenced by her parents and other relatives to take an active interest in Hawaiian culture and civic affairs. Her work in the Senate reflects this heritage. She is active in legislation affecting the welfare of women, both in the home and in industry. Formerly a schoolteacher, she encourages Hawaiian women to avail themselves of educational opportunities in order to enable them better to direct and influence their ch
