[Vol54 | January 1967 | Page 36 | General Feature | Magazines | ]
It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1966 Magazines bcund for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. Copies of The Relief Society Magazine index for personal binding can be secured from the General Board office for 20¢ prepaid. Volumes bound at the Deseret News Press include a free index. Memorial Honor Funds Discontinued By action of the General Board on March 23, 1966, the honor funds of Relief Society to memorialize past presidents of Relief Society and others were discontinued. The Poem Contest formerly honoring Eliza R. Snow will continue as a feature of the Relief Society Magazine just as is the Relief Society Short Story Contest inaugurated in 1942 as a Centennial feature. WAITING IS WINTER Kathryn Kay Waiting is coma, Time of emptiness, The lonely interval between goodbye And the return which terminates heart-stress, Releasing tight-held tears too deep to cry. Waiting is the interim, the hyphen Connecting time-was with time-yet-to-be; The long, long days and nights when moments siphon More moments while we watch helplessly.... But waiting, also, is remembering, Waiting is winter, thinking of the spring! 36. - JOIN MARCH OF DIMES George P. Voss Vice-President for Public Relations Love works both ways. The child born less than perfect gives his love as freely as all children do. In return, he needs the kind of love that means help and hope for his future. More than a quarter of a million babies born each year in this country need this special kind of love. They need expert medical care that can improve—and sometimes completely correct—almost eighty per cent of the serious conditions caused by birth defects. This is the kind of care available at more than seventy-five March of Dimes Birth Defects Centers throughout the United States. Early diagnosis and proper treatment are given—tender care for those who need it most. The child born less than perfect can be helped across the barriers of disability to find a full, pro