[Vol54 | January 1967 | Page 24 | Special Feature | Naomi to Ruth Third Prize Poem | Mabel Harmer]
A 23 THIRD PRIZE POEM 24 NAOMI TO RUTH Mabel Harmer Nay Ruth Turn once again your thoughts to Moab's plains Where purple grapes lie warm beneath the sun, Where fragile willows bend to tranquil streams And gentle winds blow coo! When day is done. Sweet Orpah's kiss still lingers on my cheek, Her love has eased a deep and poignant pain. And mine will follow her with rich content As shadows lift and tear-dimmed memories wane. You will not leave? Then Jet us bend our steps toward Bethlehem Where clouds caress the curve of distant hills, Where barley fields lie golden in the sun And in the opal dawn a wild bird trills. And if the way to Judah seems o'erlong I shall not weary, knowing all the while That tired feet and hearts grow strong again When lifted on the quick wings of a smile. Rejoice, my soul! How blessed is she whose child by ties of blood Forsaking others, chooses to abide. How more then I, when bonds of love alone Hold a once alien daughter to my side! Mabel Harmer Third Prize Winner The Relief Society Poem Contest Mabel Harmer, who placed second in the Relief Society Short Story Contest in 1942, and was an award winner in the story contest also in 1952 and 1955, is well known to readers of the Magazine. Her articles and short stories have appeared in the Magazine since 1933, and her serials have included ''The Lotus Eater,'' ''Love Is Enough," and ''Turn of the Wheel.'' With her poem "'Naomi to Ruth,"' Sister Harmer is a first-time winner in the Relief Society Poem Contest. ''l have tried my hand at almost every type of writing,"' she tells us, "'stories, plays, books, but very little poetry, so I am especially delighted to be a winner in the Relief Society Poem Contest. I have had eleven books published, one a Junior Literary Guild selection. I am affiliated with several writers groups, and currently am serving as Utah State President of the National League of American Pen Women. I also teach a class in creative writing at the Brigham Young University Center for Continuing Education in Salt Lake City, Utah. My husband is Earl W. Harmer, and our five children are Mrs. Oren (Marian) Nelson, Dr. Earl W. Harmer, Jr., Mrs. Charles R. (Patricia) Spencer, John, and Alan. There are also thirteen grandchildren." 25 g@ The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Relief Society Short Story Contest, which was announced in the May 1966 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and which closed August 15, 1966. The first prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Myrna Clawson, Modesto, California, for her story ''Who Loves Here?'' The second prize of sixty dollars is awarded to Marie M. Hayes, Seattle, Washington, for her story "A Gift to the Giver.'' The third prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Hazel M. Thomson, Bountiful, Utah, for her story, '"'To Warm the Heart." The Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1942, as a feature of the Relief Society Centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1943. The contest is open to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1967. Sixty-seven stories were entered in the 1966 contest, including submissions from England, Wales. And Canada. Mrs.