[Vol54 | January 1967 | Page 65 | Lesson | Homemaking Keeping Records Celestia | J. Taylor]
[Homemaking Keeping Records Celestia J. Taylor]

65 January 1967

 of importance to the family. She and her husband need to know what they own, where important documents and securities are kept, and how these can be preserved for the benefit and protection of the family. Following is a suggested list which might be of value in the keeping of homemanagement records. I. Family Documents Important family documents and papers should be kept in good form and readily available to the heads of the family. The following are usually included: a. Social Security cards b. Birth certificates of all members c. Church records: baptisms, ordinations, positions held, etc. D. Marriage license e. Wills of both husband and wife family II. Investments Every family should be aware of its assets, as well as its liabilities, and keep a record of them. A. Property owned, and certificates or deeds indicating ownership. B. Bank accounts, including location of banks and administrators thereof. 1. Checkbook stubs. 2. Receipts for payments. C. Government bonds and certificates. Stock III. Benefits An important part of family record keeping is the knowledge which it gives to the members of the benefits which accrue to them from their holdings. A. Insurance: Premium payments and dates when due. 1. Health insurance 2. Fire insurance 3. Other b. Pensions. C. Profit-sharing plans, if any. IV. Health Records Every mother needs to know the answers when she is confronted with 66 questions concerning the health rec-. Ord of members of her family. A. Immunizations: dates and kinds b.. Diseases, predispositions, susceptibilities, and allergies ce. Doctors and dentists consulted d. Medicine prescribed: usage, prescription dates, etc. E. Blood type of each family member V. Calendar Record of Events Every family, of necessity, keeps a calendar record of daily, weekly, or monthly events. A. School functions b. Wedding and social engagements c. Special events d. Routine appointments VI. Personal Family Records How much fun it is to keep a personal record of each child as he or she comes into the family circle, beginning with the first baby picture and following through with each important event which occurs from then on. Such a record instills in the child a personal interest in keeping up his own record, and preserves in the family a feeling of loyalty and pride of achievement. A. Book of Remembrance 'b. Individual scrapbooks and records of achievement c. Photograph albums d. Family travels and vacations e. Family interests and hobbies SUMMARY No matter how interesting and absorbing this matter of record keeping may become, it is important to remember that records are not to be considered as an end in themselves, but as a means for realizing the essential goals and desires of a family. They should be looked upon and used as valuable tools in the intelligent execution of the business of home management, which is of as vital concern to every family as any other part of the business of living. SOCIAL RELATIONS—On Earth and in Heaven Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 4—"When Ye Do What I Say" (D&C 82:10) Reference: ''On Earth and In Heaven'"' (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967 - Lessons 23 and 26) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, April 1967 Southern Hemisphere: September 1967 Objective: To point out that personal commitments are involved in the ordinance of setting-apart for service in the Church and in partaking of the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. FOLLOW-UP If there is a convert member in the class, suggest that she relate what baptism by the restored authority of the Priesthood means to her. Otherwise, have a member relate briefly the reaction of her family members to the responsibilities involved in the ordinance of baptism. INTRODUCTION This lesson continues discussion of gospel law as manifest in revealed ordinances performed through the authority of the Priesthood. In general, the ordinances considered are familiar to Relief Society women; so familiar, that certain aspects relative to their importance and function as a binding covenant, often may be overlooked. The following questions relate to the two ordinances considered in this lesson: (1) How may the ordinance of setting-apart benefit a woman who has been appointed to render Church service? (2) How is the ancient law of sacrifice associated with the sacrament of the Lord's Supper? (3) What personal commitments are involved in this ordinance? SETTING-APART Setting-apart is a phrase familiar to all members of Relief Society. Many have been involved in this gospel ordinance designed for the bestowal of authority to act in a specified capacity. This ordinance, performed by the laying on of hands by proper Priesthood authority, follows the individual's acceptance and approval, by common consent, of a particular Church assignment. With the exception of the General Authorities and other general officers of the Church and some of their associates, persons who are set-apart are authorized to function within clearly established geographical boundaries (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 26, page 194). Setting-apart is not merely a statement to the effect that the individual has been assigned to a particular Church service; it involves the bestowal of authority, and also the obligation and re-