[Vol54 | January 1967 | Page 20 | Special Feature | The Navajo Rug First Prize Poem Barbara | J. Warren]
FIRST PRIZE POEM cae SEEN ne i THE NAVAJO RUG Barbara J. Warren Like pieces of fallen cloud, the sheep are scattered on the hillside. In the summer's hot wind and the winter's cold, the woman herds them. To the hills in the day, to the corral at night,, To fresh grass and water she herds them. The rug begins in Strength. A storm drapes itself around the mountain. The sheep are restless. They scatter. The woman tries to gather them. She cannot. She kneels in the dust of the land to pray. The sheep come together. To the rug is added Faith. The sheep are sheared. The wool stands in fat bags against the hogan wall. Now the carding begins. Short, quick strokes. Fibers straight. Dirt combed out. Now the spinning begins. Turning, turning, turning, turning of the spindle While knowing fingers pull the wool into a strong, straight thread. Now the washing begins; now the dyeing begins. Into the rug goes Patience. The rug grows slowly on the loom. Its design, unwritten, has gathered itself in the mind of one Who has long looked out upon the land And seen its ever-changing colors and patterns. The rug is woven in Beauty. The way to the trading post is long, And when the woman gets there, what will she buy? Lengths of sateen and velvet that shine like shimmering jewels on the shelf? New dishes, a cooking pot — hers is so old. No. This and this and — yes — this for her children. And this and this for her man. For herself, not a thing. The rug is finished in Love. The woman is gone. You come to buy. The price is too much? No, my friend. Not for this rug. Not for what is in it. All that the woman is, is in this rug. All she thinks, all she believes, all her skills, all she dreams of and hopes for Have been woven into one in this rug. And for all this, the price is never too much. Because you see, my friend, The rug is the Woman. 20 Barbara Warren First Prize Winner The Relief Society Poem Contest Barbara Warren, a young newcomer to the pages of the Relief Society Magazine, writes from her present home in Lukachukai, Arizona, sketching highlights of her life and work: "Il was born in Missoula, Montana, and lived there until graduation from Brigham Young University, when I began teaching in a Government boarding schoo! On the Navajo Reservation. After three years, I resigned to fulfill a Southwest Indian mission. On completion of the mission, I taught a year in Springville, Utah, where my parents now live, and returned this year to Lukachukai to teach a class of non-English speaking Indian children. I am Chinle District Primary president and hold several positions in the small Lukachukai Branch. "With the exception of a story published in my high school literary magazine, this is the first of my work that has been published. I write when I fee! Deeply about a subject. During my time spent among the Lamanite people, I had many opportunities to observe the making of the Navajo rugs. The fine qualities of the women who used all their skills and talents to provide for their families gave me the inspiration and desire to write this poem."