[Vol54 | January 1967 | Page 34 | General Feature | Editorial: The Joy of Volunteer Service | Marianne C. Sharp]
The Joy of Volunteer Service Number 1 @ Belle S. Spafford, President Mi Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Mi Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor @ Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B.

Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zeima R. West w Never has the need and recognition of volunteer work been so publicized as it is today. In spite of all that governments are endeavoring to do to ameliorate the conditions of people in unfortunate circumstances, it is admitted that there is nothing so valuable to the unfortunate person as a warm, friendly, helping personal companionship which says to the disadvantaged, there is someone who cares, I am a humble human being as you are, and I'm interested in you. I am solicitous of your welfare, I want to help you. From the time a girl reaches maturity there is always some avenue through which she can serve outside her own _ family circle as her family and Church responsibilities permit. This volunteer service will add richness and understanding to her own life, in addition to the satisfaction she will feel in knowing that she is serving someone who needs her service. Over the years, schemes and corporations have evolved which have been established for the betterment of mankind, such as the Red Cross, Traveler's Aid, Health Programs, Child Care Clinics, hospitals, both to heal the body and the mind, assistance to women while in prison and after release, youth guidance work, detention homes, parent-teacher associations, to name a few. In different countries different names are given, but the work is basically the same. While these services are generally manned by salaried personnel, of necessity, for trained guidance and continuity, the success, extent, and effectiveness of the programs are dependent, in large measure, upon the good offices of volunteers. It is the people to people work which humanizes the proferred service and helps to accomplish its purposes. As a Latter-day Saint woman becomes a mother, her time and duties are centered primarily in the home with her husband and children, but a mother who gave service to some worthwhile cause before marriage, will have become conscious of her involvement with the community, and, in all probability, set aside time to engage as a volunteer, especially in programs which touch her children and community. Relief Society members are trained to give service. They are trained to act upon the words given Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith 'to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life.'' They know that they do not live on an island. Then, when the children leave the home, the wife and mother, once again, can offer her volunteer services to that cause to which her training and interests lead her. As a member of the Church, she makes friends of others outside her own neighborhood. She further broadens her outlook on life, and may be an example to others through her dedication to service and her love for others. There is an urgent need, at this time, for volunteers in the hospitals, for volunteers in strengthening the Church's specialized social services, and for other programs mentioned. The great commandment is to love one's neighbor as oneself. One's neighbor may live next door or miles away. Volunteer service is soulsatisfying. Dedication to a worthwhile cause helps one to be about one's Father's business. —M. C. S. 35 Bound Volumes of 1966 Magazines \ Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1966 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104. (See advertisement in this issue of the Magazine, page 77.) The cost of binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $3.25, leather $5.25, including the index. A limited number of 1966 Magazines are available at the offices of the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, for $2.00 for twelve issues.