[Vol54 | January 1967 | Page 45 | General Feature | Sandwich Surprises Joyce | B. Bailey]
44 SANDWICH SURPRISES Joyce B. Bailey Busy housewives call time and time again on the lowly sandwich to fill the gap at mealtime. Here are some sandwich ideas to make any husband, teenager, or child wish it were sandwich-time more often! _ Broiled Supper Sandwiches: CHICKEN-CHEESE CHARMERS Place sliced cooked chicken on buttered toast. Sprinkle it with crumbled Roquefort cheese. Cover with strips of bacon (notched to prevent curling), and broil for about ten minutes, or until the bacon is crisp. For a special treat, place sliced tomatoes on the chicken before adding the cheese. This will be a family favorite. PEANUT BUTTER AND TOMATO TOASTED Toast slices of bread on one side. Spread the untoasted side with a mixture of peanut butter, chopped cooked bacon, and bacon drippings. Top this with a thin slice of tomato sprinkled with 14 tsp. Brown sugar. Place under the broiler for a few minutes, serve, and enjoy. TUNA TUG BOATS Cut tomatoes into thick slices and place on buttered toast. Season with salt and pepper and pinch of brown sugar. Drain and flake a 7 oz. Can of tuna and combine with mayonnaise. Spread the tuna mixture on the tomatoes and sprinkle with grated sharp cheese. Broil until the cheese is melted and serve piping hot. CORNED BEEF SANDWICH Combine 14 c. Sharp American cheese with 2 tbsp. Mayonnaise. Add 4 oz. Canned corn beef, shredded, and 14 c. Sour-sweet pickles, finely chopped, 1 tbsp. Grated onion, and 2 tbsp. Chopped celery. Season with salt, if needed, and spread on thick whole-wheat slices of bread with crisp lettuce. CHICKEN SPECIALS Spread whole-wheat or rye bread with cream cheese, softened with a little milk or cream. Add slices of cooked chicken, chopped green olives, and salt. Add crisp lettuce, and what a treat! ITALIAN SUPER SALAD Split a large French roil and spread the halves with mayonnaise. Place thick slices of tomato, a slice of salami, and two anchovies on one slice. Top with crisp lettuce and the other half: of the roll. HAWAIIAN CLUB SANDWICH This is always special, for guests or for the family. Prepare 3 slices of toast for each serving. Cover slice #1 with a lettuce leaf, 3 crisp slices of hot bacon, slices of tomato, mayonnaise, and a drained slice of canned pineapple. Place slice #2 on top and cover it with slices of cold turkey or chicken and mayonnaise. Place slice #3 on top and cut diagonally.