The Nutrition of the Child (Prenatal and Postnatal) By Dr. L. L. Daines, University of Utah. In infancy, sickness and death are due largely to diseases, of the intestines and stomach and to acute respiratory diseases. There has been a remarkable decrease in the past few years in the death rate in infants from diseases of the intestines and stomach, mainly because we have a better knowledge of the proper diets for children. For the welfare of the child clean heredity is not the only thing to be seriously considered during the prenatal period. While the twelve months before the child is born is the period most neglected in regard to his care and feeding, we are learning a great deal concerning what can be done then to guard his welfare in a physical way. Diseases From Prenatal Conditions. Breast milk is often deficient in the essential inorganic salts, as well as in vitamins?a fact that undoubtedly explains, at least partially why some breast-fed infants suffer from rickets, scurvy, goitre, etc. It seems safe to assume that the blame for this condition lies in improper prenatal maternal feeding. Evidence is accumulating that the need of calcium and phosphorus for bone building are greatest in foetal life. The calcification of the first teeth is said to begin early in the prenatal period; while calcification of the second or p?rmanent set begins some time before birth. The mother who at this time, is willing to include in her food goodly quantities of these essential things is going far toward insuring the proper development of her child. Another inorganic substance that is commonly lacking is iodine?a condition often completely neglected in the diet of the prenatal period. Dr. Robert Olesen, in Public Health Service, says: "During the prenatal period, iodine should be administered under the direction of the medical attendant, thereby preventing the development of goitre in the child as well as in the mother." The inorganic salts and vitamins needed by the foetus or the nursing infant cannot be built up in the mother's body; they must be obtained from her food or from the store of such substances in her own body tissues. Diet For Infants In the case of artificially fed infants, it is of course just as THE NUTRITION OF THE CHILD 65 essential to concern ourselves with all these necessary elements. While many of the serious disturbances of digestion in infants are due to bacterial contamination of food, still perhaps as many, or more, such disturbances are due to improper balancing of the infant's food. The pediatrician, or specialist in children's diseases, can usually correct these conditions by a careful adjustment of the proteins, fats and carbohydrates. In proper hands, this is one of the most fruitful fields in the prevention and treatment of human disease. It seems safe to say that a large proportion of the decrease in infant mortality is due to the intense interest that is being taken in foods and nutrition by the general public as well as by the medical profession. There never has been a time when so many people have been interested in foods and nutrition as now. This is because the importance of a proper diet for health and long life is more apparent than in the past. In determining a proper diet, many things must be considered, such as the right kinds and proper amounts of proteins, carbohydrates, and fats. Mineral salts make up a very necessary part of the diet. It is desirable to give attention to the things that will stimulate the appetite; and we must carefully supply a sufficient amount of indigestible material to keep up the proper tone of the intestinal muscles. * Substances Essential For Health Recently there have been discovered five or six substances. Whose presence in the food is necessary for health, for the proper physical development, and for the propagation of the race. Because nothing is yet known of their chemical nature, they are assigned letters of the alphabet. The first to be discovered was vitamin C. This substance is present in milk and fresh uncooked vegetables and fruits, especially in orange, lemon and tomato juice, when these are ripened in the field. It is sensitive to boiling and even the temperature of pasteurization of milk, if air is present during the process, destroys it. Its absence from food for any length of time results in the development of a definite and serious disease called scurvy. This disease in infants occurs especially in babies who receive for many months a diet limited to heated cows milk, with or without cereal addition. These babies grow pale and fretful, fail to gain in weight, give evidence of tenderness of the limbs, and perhaps bleeding of the gums. It is decidedly possible that in lighter cases, many of the so-called "growing pains" may be evidences of this disease. The greatest danger lies in the fact that a marked susceptibility to infections is associated with this nutritional disturbance. It has recently been determined that it is not the heat that 66 ? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE mainly destroys this vitamin but the oxidation that generally accompanies the process. If milk or other food is heated with but little access of air during the process, almost all of the vitamin is preserved. As a result of this knowledge it has recently been learned how to preserve vegetables and fruits so that they retain their antiscorbutic properties throughout the winter season. Even dried milk contains this factor in almost undiminished amount. This is due to the fact that dried milk is not subject to oxidation in its preparation. The Water-Soluble Vitamins. The next to be discovered was water-soluble vitamin B. This is now considered to be a complex and will probably be called vitamins F. And G. It is present in milk, fresh vegetables, the hulls of cereals, in yeast, eggs and glandular meats, such as liver and kidneys. The absence of this vitamin complex from the diet permits the development of both Beri-beri and pellegra. Of far greater importance to us, however, is the fact that both these substances in vitamin B. Are essential to growth. Several workers have repeatedly demonstrated the marked effect of this vitamin on the appetite. While often referred to as "growthpromoting," this vitamin, like each of the others, is essential to normal nutrition at all ages. This vitamin is not destroyed by boiling unless too liberal amounts of soda are added to the food during the process of cooking. The third is fat soluble vitamin A. It is present in butterfat, milk, eggs, and fresh green vegetables. It is found in the green leaves of plants and in general these are much richer in this vitamin than are other organs of the plant. The pale inner leaves of headed lettuce and cabbage are not nearly so rich as are the green outer leaves. Recent careful work has shown that the green plant tissues other than leaves, used as food in the form of string beans and green peppers are, like the green leaves, rich in vitamin 'A. McCollum found that by depriving an animal of vitamin A, a serious condition of the eye and other complications arise. Although this is important in times of war and famine, \when there is the most serious lack of these vitamins, under more normal conditions the chief interest in vitamin A, centers around its importance in promoting growth as well as in being a regulatory substance. Several investigators have emphasized the fact that respiratory diseases are more frequent among experimental animals whose food is relatively poor in vitamin A. A liberal allowance of this vitamin certainly tends toward a higher degree of health and vigor; and when more is consumed than is needed, the body t THE NUTRITION OF THE CHILD 67 has power to store the surplus and hold it available for future use. This has been found to be strikingly true both of young animals and of adults. That vitamin A plays an extremely important part in the nutrition not only of the young but also of the adult, is now well established. Experiments by Sherman and McLeod in feeding two parallel groups of rats two types of diets, one rather low and the other fairly high in vitamin A, gave the very interesting result that the group given the liberal allowance of vitamin A lived on the average a little over twice as long as those on the diet equally good in all other respects but lower in vitamin A. This vitamin is relatively stable under the conditions generally maintained in the cooking of foods. Rickets and Vitamin D. Vitamin D is correlated with the development of rickets in children and has therefore been called the antirachitic vitamin. It is present in large amounts in cod-liver oil, and occurs in small quantities in butter-fat and the yolk of eggs. Rickets can be cured or prevented by exposure to summer sunshine or to ultraviolet rays, provided the sunshine is not robbed of its necessary properties as in passing through ordinary window glass. It has been shown that the ultra violet irrodition of oils, in themselves not antirachitic, or cholestero, produces a substance identical with, or metabolically equivalent to, vitamin D. The insolation of this compound has recently been claimed. The development of rickets depends on an unsatisfactory relation among three dietary factors?calcium, phosphorus, and vitamin D?and of sunlight. The results of recent experiments emphasize the fact that the outstanding feature of the disease is an incorrect metabolism of phosphorus rather than of calcium, and that this condition is brought about by insufficient amount of both vitamin D. And sunshine. Rickets is a disease of infancy. After the first two years of life, children become rapidly insusceptible to its development. The essential feature of the disease is a defect in the development of bone. This leads to deformity?to abnormal enlargement of the ends of the bones, and to distortion due to bending, owing to lack of resistance of the bone to the body weight. It is caused also by muscular tension and atmospheric pressure. Features of Rachitic Diseases Bow-legs, knock-knees, enlarged joints, flat or deformed chests, and abnormal conformations of the skull, are all the result of failure by the bones to develop in a normal manner. These defects alone do not endanger the life of the infant. Only in severe cases are there permanent distortions and mechanical dis-  ability. The disease presents, however, in addition to these defects in bone growth, other features indicating a general disturbance of nutritional processes. There is marked anemia, flabby musculation, and impairment of digestive function. Rachitic children are predisposed to dangerous gastro-intestinal disturbances and readily contract infectious diseases, especially those of the respiratory tract. Since rickets is so widely prevalent it is indirectly responsible for a large part of infant mortality. Findley in a recent survey of rickets says: "In England, as in most civilized countries, rickets-is one of the most common diseases of children. Further, it is probably the most potent factor in interfering with the efficiency of the race. It not only stunts the growth and causes deformities, some of which greatly increase the dangers of child-bearing, but it raises considerably the mortality rate of such diseases as measles and whooping cough." It should be said that in order to suffer serious injury from any of these so called deficiency diseases, it is not necessary to have frank or severe cases of them. Scurvy and rickets, for example, may do serious damage without symptoms that would be readily recognized. In pointing out the great importance of the vitamin D. (calcium-phosphorus combination in the proper development of the teeth) McCollum says: "While commendable as a general hygienic measure, mouth hygiene has little if anything to do with the preservation of the teeth. All measures hitherto proposed which stress cleanliness and prompt repair do not get at the root of the evil. The development during very early life of a sound set of teeth is the most important factor in preventive dentistry." A Cause of Sterility In Animals Recently a remarkable series of experiments has been published, setting forth the probability of another vitamin that is essential in preventing sterility in animals. It was found that on certain diets rats could grow to full maturity and appear normal, but were incapable of reproduction. This condition can be cured or prevented by a change in the dietary program. This change involves the addition of certain single natural foods high in a new food factor, vitamin E: or the addition of much smaller amounts of extracts of these foods. This vitamin is found most abundantly in the lipoid extracts of cereal grains, but is abundant also in various leafy vegetables. Additional work has recently shown that young animals nursing from mothers deprived of this vitamin develop paralyses. THE NUTRITION OF THE CHILD 69 The Best of Foods What foods, then, are important in furnishing these essential food factors? It is chiefly because of their outstanding importance as sources of vitamin A as well as calcium and the complete nature of their proteins that McCollum has designated milk and the green vegetables as the protective foods. In view of this fact, a Committee on Nutritional Problems appointed by the American Public Health Association emphasizes the importance of including milk in the daily diet to the extent of at least a quart for every child and not less than a pint for the adult. Sherman says that the standard of a quart of milk in some form every day should be maintained at least up to the age of 14 years. In order to get an adequate supply of vitamin C, uncooked fruits and vegetables must be included in the diet. Foodstuffs suitable for human consumption are, almost without exception, deficient in the antirachitic vitamin D. Butter and egg-yolk are the only common foods which have been shown to contain appreciable amounts. Cod-liver oil and sunshine have a marked protective as well as curative influence. The glandular organs, such 'as liver, kidney, and sweetbread or pancreas, are extremely rich in vitamins as compared with, other parts. The mucle meats and cereals are very poorly supplied except for vitamin E. Milk, leafy vegetables, fresh uncooked fruits and vegetables, eggs, butter, cod-liver oil, and grandular meats are our protective foods, and they furnish in addition appetite stimulating substances and the necessary calcium and phosphorus as well as other minerals. Apparently, too much of these important food factors cannot be taken. The American Public Health Association's Committee on Nutritional Problems says in its report: "Of total food (calories) we can advantageously use only a little more than we actually need; but in recent experiments with vitamins, intakes of several-fold the amounts demonstrably needed have shown no danger, but on the contrary have proved distinctly advantageous. As with fresh air, we can exist without conspicious injury on relatively little, but we can use advantageously a many-fold, larger allowance, generally as much as we can conveniently get." THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto?Charity Never Faileth THE  Salt Lake City, Uta Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt. Lake City, Utah VOL.