Recently a group of American scientists were making their way by train through Continental Europe. A woman was with the men in one of the non-smoking compartments. She was a smoker, and consequently grew restless. She offered the gentlemen cigarettes, which they refused, saying, they did not smoke. She replied to their refusal, "This is embarrassing; do you mind my smoking?" This certainly looks like a case of tables turned; as we view it,?turned in the wrong direction. Not long ago a woman riding on one of our railroads, found herself the victim of her own bad habit. She wanted to smoke; she said she had to smoke, but added, "If I do, I shall give offense to every man and woman on this train". However she went into the smoker and began to smoke, and, as she had anticipated, there was a fuss. The conductor said that every woman in the car was scolding him for letting her smoke. She certainly was unpopular in that company, and very much to be pitied. Perhaps she took up with this undesirable habit by associating with men and women who urged smoking, and led her into it. Hence her trouble. Compared to the embarrassment of this woman the perverbial fish out of water is to be envied. We trust that Utah standards will not break down. Let us hold the line, even as the French held it at Verdun. "Thou shalt not pass," is as important a slogan in the spiritual realm as it ever could be in the realm of the physical., The Women in the Case In our New Year's issue we paid tribute to President Herbert Hoover and Premier Ramsey MaDonald. These two men deserve the support and confidence of all people who believe in the possibility of a better world?a world no longer torn by national prejudice or by such strife as wars are made of. And here we wish to pay tribute to the women who are officially hostesses for these two great men. Lou Henry Hoover is a college trained woman with fine American traditions behind her. She is socialized in the real sense. For years those close to her know how sincere have been her efforts to better untoward conditions in the world, and how generously she has given of her means to foster such movements. The Twentieth Century with its program of betterment for children and peace for humanity has in her an intelligent and sympathetic supporter. The hostess of Premier Ramsey MacDonald is his daughter, Ishbel, a very serious minded young woman interested first of all in social work. While in America with her Father, she spent  much of her time in settlements and other places where up-to-date social work is being done. She and her father attended a social work Conference in New York City; afterwards they were guests of Miss Lillian Wald of Henry street Settlement fame, of the Settlement Workers' Home in Saugatuck, Connecticut. This is the second time Miss MacDonald has been her father's hostess at No. 10 Downing Street. During Mr. Stanley Baldwin's term of office she devoted herself very actively to Social Work in England. Surely the world is growing better. It is a far cry from the time when the poor little ignorant Queen of France, Marie Antonette, hearing the murmurings of the mob in front of the Palace, asked why they were protesting; when told that they were asking for bread, she exclaimed, "Why don't they eat cake?" Mrs. Hoover and the young Miss MacDonald are each zealous that their grasp of present day situations shall be in a high degree intelligent and comprehensive.