[WomansExponent | Vol34 | 1905 | July | Issue: 2 | Title: A NOTABLE ANNIVERSARY. | Author: Unknown]

A NOTABLE ANNIVERSARY.

	Notwithstanding the announcement
made in the May number of our paper,
and the more elaborate notice in June of
the birthday anniversary of our honored
President of the Relief Society there
still remains much to say and "The half
can never be told," in this little paper,
but we feel it is due to the University of
Provo that did such great honor to Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith to make more
than a passing mention.
	We do feel that the Professors, teach-
ers and students of that famous institu-
tion were more than generous in the
ovation given our beloved veteran sister
and mother in Israel, and that the
example they have set in thus showing
reverence to one of Zion's most cele-
brated women, one of Utah's heroines
will be a blessing and credit to that great
University of learning.
	A committee with carriages met the
party at the station and escorted the en-
tire company to the University grounds
where the ladies and gentlemen all were
most courteously recieved and welcomed.
President Joseph F. Smith and President


John R. Winder were honored guests 
and about twenty-five others. We were
first ushered into the Devotional room 
where the students meet for morning
prayer, and President Winder offered an
eloquent prayer, from there we went to 
the large Auditorium where the students 
were assembled, the entire assemblage
rising to their feet to welcome their Pres-
ident and guests, President Joseph F.
Smith, President of the Faculty of the 
University.	The exercises under the
direction of Prof. Geo. H. Brimhall were
altogether of an elevating nature, Presi-
dent Jos. F. Smith's address was espe-
cially brilliant and abounded in excellent
testimonials of love, honor and esteem
for the lady in whose honor the college
had convened. The musical exercises
under the direction of Prof. Anthon H.
Lund were melodiously uplifting.
	After the morning exercises we repaired
to the large and commodious hall of the
Gymnasium, where an elaborate banquet
was spread that had been prepared and was
served by the class of Domestic Science.
The afternoon in the Tabernacle and the 
reception in the evening were very de-
lightful and surely Provo did herself proud
in honoring the guest of the day and her
followers.


The evening of the second day of fes-
tivities when the Hon. W. N. Williams 
and his good wife entertained their "Aunt
Bathsheba" and her friends was partic-
ularly pleasant. President Joseph F. 
Smith spoke of the Elect Lady in the 
highest terms of praise and commenda-
tion and we all said Amen, other speak-
ers there were who were profuse in words
of love and esteem, and several brought 
precious gifts and tokens in appreciation
of friendship and sisterly love. 
	Delicious refreshments were served by
the amiable daughters of the host and 
hostess and there was some fine singing by
young ladies and a band of Juvenile boys
serenaded the veteran sister with sweet
music on the outside. 
	The sisters of the General Board pre-
sented their beloved President with the 
new edition in large type of the Book of 
Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants
the Secretary had the honor of saying a 
few loving words for the Board when 
making the presentation.


[Column 1]
		A DAY OF WONDERS.
	There are so many important events
transpiring nowadays, that one is at a 
loss to decide what material is best or of
the most consequence to write about. 
Newspapers, journals and magazines are
filled to overflowing with the wonderful
doings, inventions and discoveries of the 
present day.  Verily it is an age of won-
ders and the fulfillment of prophecy. 
	I think one may be safe in saying that
there never was so much travel and traffic
before as now, this present year will
mark in this respect more going to and fro 
in the earth, and wandering up and down
than there has ever been in the annals of 
history. People are seeing everything in 
the way of scenery and countries, cities
and towns are in this way becoming fam-
iliar to the masses even. Whether the
information gained will result in perman-
ent good remains with the future, but

[Column 2]
seriously speaking, there must be greater 
enlightenment, and it cannot fai to be be-
neficial in some ways, in comparing notes
and methods on various subjects and in 
the exercise of greater charity as one
comes to know conditions, circumstances
and environments. 
	Yet withal there are many things to 
deplore, notwithstanding all the progress
made, all the knowledge gained, yet na-
tions still persist in fighting each other, 
and refusing negotiations of peace, there-
fore one cannot help thinking there is
still much to be done before the dawn of 
the Millennial day.
	There certainly is in the outlook from 
our point of view a better prospect for 
uniting forces for any great world-move-
ment than ever before, and this is hope-
ful. One of the good points made by 
President Roosevelt in his recent address
to a delegation of Trades Unionists was, 
"You must remember that arbitration 
isn't everything. You must also consid-
er conciliation."
	When the second Hague conference 
convenes, which will be called by Presi-
dent Roosevelt it is said, as soon as the 
Eastern war ends, the measures taken 
will not only extend the use of arbitration
but consider the nature of conciliation. 
Another measure to be proposed is "The
formation of a World's Advisory Congress
composed of delegates of all the nations
to meet every two or three years to con-
sider international questions and to rec-
commend international laws."
	This is a very large subject, but it is 
one of the most intense interest and 
women have considered this question of
internationalism ever since, if not before
the great International Council of Wom-
en was organized in Washington in 1888. 
It is to the writer a very fascinating sub-
ject. Some women have grasped a few of 
the elements of this subject of inter-
nationalism, and many more might if they 
would give some attention to it. We are
apt to talk of the betterment of the whole
world, and we try to teach patriotism to 
the children iu the schools, and to the 
grown up people in the various organiza-
tions, and it don't require a very great de-
gree of college education or learning to 
master the subject of world-wide inter-
nationalism; a little geography, history, 
psychology, some every day logic and a 
desire for justice for all mankind would
he necessary, to be sure, but the vast
amount of good that has been accom-
plished already by the international so-
cieties among women proves what great
results might come from similar move-
ments of both men and women. The 
Peace and Arbitration International Con-
gress is perhaps the best illustration we
have to offer at the present time, and the 
Peace meetings held under the auspices
of the National and International Coun-
cil are helping to educate the people in
this one important line of international-
ism, and this spirit will eventually come
to be a power for good against the evils
that prevail in the world.


