How I Became Involved in The Doctrine and Covenants," because the Doctrine and Covenants gives us the gospel. In fact, if we were to analyze its doctrines, I do not believe it could be surpassed by any of the other three books of scripture accepted by the Latter-day Saints. Furthermore, we would learn that it is the repository of many doctrines of salvation which are only mentioned or inferred in those other books.

Formative Years in the Priesthood 
As far as I am concerned, my interest in the study of the gospel began when I became a deacon in the Aaronic Priesthood. I believe that because I was given responsibility at that time my interest in the gospel was heightened. It was the practice of the counselor in the bishopric who had charge of the quorum to give assignments to the quorum members to participate in giving parts of the lesson. As an ordained teacher, I became the teacher of the quorum under the direction of a member of the ward bishopric. This practice continued in the priest's quorum; consequently, my interest in the gospel became very great during those formative years in the priesthood. This foundation proved very helpful in preparation for a mission, so much that when I was called to be a missionary at the age of twenty-two, I felt that I was prepared to teach the gospel when I arrived in the mission field.

My interest in the gospel was theological; consequently, | learned the doctrines of the Church from all of the standard works, especially with an emphasis upon the Bible since I knew I would use it as the basis of my missionary work. It wasn't until some years later, except for the use of many passages in the Doctrine and Covenants which provided clear explanations of particular doctrines, that I really studied the Doctrine and Covenants in depth.

The True Concept of God 
Among many other fundamental doctrines, the missionary teaches the investigator the true concept of God. Of all the doctrines of the gospel this one stands out as one of the most important for people to know—since it is life eternal to know God. (John 17:3.) One of the difficulties a nonmember may have in accepting the concept that God is personal, having a body of flesh and bones, is God's attribute of omnipresence. The apostate "Christian" world believes that God is a spirit without form; whereas the Lord has revealed to his prophets, ancient and modern, that he has a body.

Salient Principles of Doctrine and Covenants

The Doctrine and Covenant is different from the other three standard works of the Church because it is a little more difficult to maintain interest in sustained reading unless one has a definite objective in his reading, such as theological. There is relatively no narrative in the Doctrine and Covenants. The exception to this is Section 135, the historical account of the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum at Carthage Jail 125 years ago.

I presume that it would not be amiss to suggest an exaggerated comparison of the Doctrine and Covenants and reading the dictionary—in both, there is statement after statement of truths not always connected with the preceding information. This fact, however, has its advantages. One does not have to look very far to find rich, inspiring thoughts. Also, one must concentrate on his reading in order not to miss salient principles.

Years ago I realized that many members of the Church might find difficulty in keeping up their interest in reading the Doctrine and Covenants, so I conceived the idea that this book could be enjoyed more and learned better, perhaps, through the commentaries of the prophets, seers, and revelators of the dispensation. With this and other purposes in mind, I set out to compile such a work, using the sermons and writings of the members of the First Presidencies, Twelve Apostles, and the Patriarchs to explain the Doctrine and Covenants.

For well over five years I labored on this project which culminated in the four volumes of The Latter-Day Prophets and the Doctrine and Covenants, published from 1963 to 1965. I have known young as well as old people who have shown unusual interest in the Doctrine and Covenants through the use of these volumes.

Writings of Elder B. H. Roberts

In the years when I was learning the teachings of the Church, I was impressed with the writings of Elder B. H. Roberts of the First Council of Seventy. I remember his quoting a passage from George Rawlinson's Historical Evidences of the Truth of the Scripture Records, as follows:

Of this we may be sure, that if any new forms of evidence should hereafter be needed, to meet any new forms of unbelief, and authenticate afresh the word of truth, they will be found deposited somewhere, waiting for the fulness of time; and God will bring them forth in their season, from the dark hieroglyphics, or the desert sands, or the dusty manuscripts, to confound the adversaries of his word, and to magnify it above all his name. (Quoted in New Witness for God, Volume II, Forewords.)

Under the caption of "The World's Hunger For Knowledge of The Christ," President Roberts quoted the following from the Life of the Master by Rev. John Watson:

Were a parchment discovered in an Egyptian mound, six inches square, containing fifty words which were certainly spoken by Jesus, this utterance would count more than all the books which have been published since the first century. (Ibid.)

Although Elder Roberts used these quotations to support the Book of Mormon, I came early in life to know that we do have the words of Christ in the Doctrine and Covenants, in fact, hundreds and hundreds of them spoken to his Prophet, Joseph Smith.

The introduction to the revelations in this book of scripture reveals the author as the Savior. Examples are:

Hearken, O ye people of my church—1:1.
to the voice of Jesus Christ, your Lord, your God, and your Redeemer (27:1.)
Behold, thus saith the Lord, even Alpha and Omega... (54:1.)

A Witness for the Savior

The Lord declared, however, that the revelations were given after the manner of the Prophet's language. (D&C 1:24.)

In truth, the Doctrine and Covenants is an answer to the present thought among some theologians that God is dead, a notion that has received wide publicity. The modern scriptures declare plainly that God lives!

Two important accounts of the appearance of the Savior in this generation are given in the Doctrine and Covenants:

(1) The stirring description by the Prophet Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon is a testimony to this fact.

And now after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him: That he lives! For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father—
That by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God. (D&C 76:22-24.)

(2) We know of the glorified account of the Savior's appearance to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery in the Kirtland Temple on April 3, 1836.

The veil was taken from our minds, and the eyes of our understanding were opened. We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit, before us; and under his feet was a paved work of pure gold, in color like amber. His eyes were as a flame of fire; the hair of his head was white like the pure snow; his countenance shone above the brightness of the sun; and his voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying: I am the first and last; I am he who liveth, I am he who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father. (D&C 110:1-4.)

In a scholarly article entitled "The Requiem for God," the author gives four causes for the belief that God is dead. Among these is the awareness of suffering in the 20th century demonstrated in the work of "Christians" at the Auschwitz Prison Camp where thousands of Jews perished in death chambers.

Paraphrasing the words of the author, Doris Donnelly, she said that the terrible suffering that is occurring in the world can only be attributed to God if he is made into a monster. ("The Requiem For God," Religious Education, July- , p.

318.) To the Latter-day Saint the Lord has revealed the why and wherefore of human suffering, and in doing so he has given us the strength and power to endure. The inspired words given to the Prophet Joseph Smith in Liberty Jail, Missouri, provide this blessing: "Know thou, my son, that all these things (sufferings and the tribulations) shall give thee experience, and shall be for thy good. The Son of Man hath descended below them all. Art thou greater than he?" (D&C 122:7-8.) Truly, when man knows the purpose of suffering, he is better able to endure it. Ultimately, sorrow, suffering, and like adversities are for our development, growth and purification. (Lesson 92 "Adversity," , .)

A Witness for the Bible

I learned that in addition to the power of the Doctrine and Covenants as a testator for the Savior, it also helped me immeasurably as a student of the gospel to affirm my faith in and acceptance of other Biblical teachings. I believe that the modern standard works of the Church have greatly increased the faith of Latter-day Saints in the Bible, a book which has lost ground among "Christian" people. President Brigham Young said he expected to see the Bible voted out of the so-called Christian world, and progress was being made in doing so in his day. (Discourses of Brigham Young, p. 125.) Since then, the Bible has been quite generally set aside as being true. Fundamental gospel teachings have been rejected.

As long ago as 1929, in a survey of 500 ministers and 487 students studying for the ministry, many teachings held dear to the older ministers were not acceptable to most of the younger men. (Leo Rosten, editor, A Guide to the Religions of America, pp. 236-238.)

On the other hand, the Lord said to the Prophet Joseph Smith that the revelations he gave him would have the effect of increasing faith among men. (D&C 1:17-23.) Thousands of people have had their faith restored and also increased in the credibility of the Bible through their acceptance of the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ.

The trek of our pioneer forefathers over long miles of plains bears solemn testimony to their faith built upon modern revelation. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., caught the sacrifice and toil of these hardy, faithful men and women as he described in a general conference later published in a book "To Them of the Last Wagon," this magnificent accomplishment, as follows:

That evening was the last of the great trek, the mightiest trek that history records since Israel's flight from Egypt, and as the sun sank below the mountain peaks they of the last wagon, and of the wagon before them, and of the one before that, and so the very front wagon of the train, these all sank to their knees in the joy of their souls, thanking God that at last they were in Zion. "Zion, Zion, lovely Zion; Beautiful Zion, Zion, City of our God." They knew there was a God, for only he could have brought them triumphantly, militantly, through all the scorn, the ridicule, the slander, the tarrings and featherings, the whippings, the burnings, the plunderings, the murderings, the ravishing of wives and daughters, that had been their lot, the lot of their people since Joseph visioned the Father and the Son. (Conference Report, , page 158.)

488 Words of the Lord to This Generation

How did I become involved in the study of the Doctrine and Covenants? You will have observed by now that my interest came about as a youth because I needed the Doctrine and Covenants to clarify many Bible doctrines in my preparation for the mission field. Also, I came to know that this book of scripture is a witness for the divinity of the Savior. In addition, I saw in the Doctrine and Covenants the words of the Lord Jesus Christ to the people of this generation. This last fact was apparent, for it is a modern book intended to guide people on the road to salvation in the present world.

In the Bible there are many prophecies regarding the last days. My interest was aroused in the Doctrine and Covenants because it is a "voice of warning" to the people of our times, just as the Bible was intended to "warn" the people of the generations about which it speaks, and at the same time, in prophecy, it spoke of our dispensation.

In other words, to have the Creator of the earth inform us of what is to happen to this world and its inhabitants today even more clearly than the information on this subject in the Bible, is a stimulus for the members of the Church to become involved in the Doctrine and Covenants. For example, the very conditions which we see today—extreme wickedness, disbelief in God, people becoming laws unto themselves—were foreknown.

Of interest to all of us are world events. The political unrest among the nations, the extent of rumors of wars and actual conflict, together with the great amount of sickness and natural calamities, all signify that the times prophesied are with us. Unless extreme apathy has taken hold of us, it is difficult to understand why a Latter-day Saint would not want to understand the signs preceding the second coming of Christ. We should look forward to his coming. (D&C 45:39-42.)

The Purpose of Life

I doubt that there is a person who at some time in his life, if not many times, has not wondered about the purpose of this life and especially the important question as to what lies beyond the grave. This ever-present question is revealed in the Doctrine and Covenants, especially the future existence following the spirit world.

One of the most distinctive doctrines taught in the modern revelations that has found unusual interest and profit is the one regarding the various kingdoms following the resurrection. Who has not thrilled with this "transcript from the eternal world," as he has come to understand the magnanimity, mercy, and justice of God in this divine plan? How wonderful it is to have one's eyes opened to understand the opportunity to receive exaltation—all that the Father hath?

Early in life I learned this great truth, and I came to love it because it was congenial to my soul. I believe that this doctrine motivates one to serve the Lord with all his heart, might, mind, and strength. As one comes to love one teaching after another, his whole being takes on new life and new purpose.

The visions of the prophets become his _ visions and his goals. The same spirit that revealed the teachings of the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ to the prophets also reveals these truths to the one who becomes involved in the Doctrine and Covenants. He loves the Lord because he knows that the Lord loves him. He understands what it means when the Lord said: That which is of God is light; and he that receiveth light, and continueth in God, receiveth more light; and that - hight groweth brighter and brighter until the perfect day. (D&C 50:24.) How to Become Involved in the Doctrine and Covenants. If someone were to ask me what he or she could do to become involved in this wonderful book of scripture, I would offer the following: 

1. She could undertake an assignment to teach this book.
2. If this opportunity were not available in the classroom, she could assume that someday she would need the teachings of the Doctrine and Covenants to help her as a teacher, administrator in the Church, to assume the responsibilities of a parent, to abide by the charge of "every member a missionary," and above all for her own salvation.
3. She could ask herself a series of questions about the doctrines of the Church periodically and then endeavor to learn the answers to these questions from the Doctrine and Covenants by the use of the index, concordance, commentaries, and other means.
4. She could resolve to set aside ten or fifteen minutes each day to read the revelations. If there were times when she found it hard to follow this practice she could remember the advice of President Brigham Young concerning prayer: If you do not feel like praying then get down on your knees, then stay there until you get the spirit of prayer. (Journal of Discourses 7:164.) So also, she could be as persistent until she became the victor.

No doubt other means might be employed of accomplishing the same purpose. In any case, I bear testimony that a knowledge of the teachings of the Doctrine and Covenants is necessary to attain the heights of performance required to receive eternal life. The revelations are true, Joseph Smith is a prophet, and his successors enjoy the same calling. All of this means that Jesus Christ is our Savior in every sense of the word; he lives, this I know by the testimony of the Spirit.

They say six thousand of them perished as they came this way.
And she was one of those.
He could not fathom why they left her there
Why he must forfeit all her loving care,
Nor why her life must close.
Just eight years old.

He walked the rocky path
With no sweet hand to keep him on the trail.
His father, stumbling on with bitter eyes,
Ruing the day he left his English skies,
Fearing what future griefs might yet unveil—
Desperate and doubtful then—he prayed, and stayed.

Then came gray days,
And homeless, drifting, lonely, seeking years.
He found no Mecca in this rugged land,
No dream fulfilled for him.
Yet for his son
He gave a gift beyond comparison.
He gave America to compensate those tears.