HEART Room For Home Alice Morrey Bailey Chapter 2 SYNOPSIS: Mary Ann and Kim Freeman take Kim's father from his home in Mayville, Utah, to their home in Los Angeles to care for him after an accident, in which his hip has been broken. His coming will constitute an upheaval in their way of living, as Mary Ann will have to break her contract as a teacher in order to care for him. This will halve their income at the crucial time when their last two unmarried children are dependent on it—Tommy for his last year in college and Rosemary for her wedding, both events the following June. It is now October.

The parents are apprehensive about Rosemary's _ reaction, especially, as she has a demanding personality. Rosemary was her charming best throughout the slow process of the dinner after they had made her grandfather comfortable—and he sparkled under her attention.

"Grandfather, is my little grotto still there?" "Yes, honey. The grandchildren play there by the hour."

"But you made it for me, didn't you? Chisled it out of pure rock." "Indeed I did, but the water had done most of it. It was yours before it was anybody else's."

Rosemary dimpled with pleasure. "You know when they had those adorable, ugly troll dolls? My college friends couldn't imagine why I collected them. It was so I could take them there and put them in their own setting, and someday I mean to."

It was Tommy who volunteered his room for his grandfather, as Mary Ann hoped he would. "Because it is closest to the bathroom," and moved his things to the one vacated by Robert, which they had used as a guest room since, while Rosemary made the bed ready for her grandfather.

"Such willing hands!" said their grandfather. "I feel as if I had dropped into a bed of roses. Everybody is so nice to me, and I don't know why—a useless old man."

"Grandpa!" Tommy and Rosemary protested in unison. "You could be useless forty years and not live up your credit," Tommy went on.

"How I loved my summers with you in Mayville!" "That's real nice of you children to say," said Father Freeman, "but mind you, stop me if I get to repeating myself. I've taken to reminiscing and I forget things, tell things over and over, can't remember what I've done and haven't done. I have to keep a list, I'm so old."

"Dad, I do the same things," put in Kim.

"Well, you're not so young yourself," said his father, looking at him astutely. "This doddering of the mind is a terrible trial to the young."

"He's a darling!" pronounced Rosemary when they got back to the living room. "He looks like an angel with that shock of white hair."

"I had forgotten what a beautiful old man Grandfather is," said Tommy.

"But he's so pale he looks ethereal. Is anything else wrong with him—besides the hip?" "He is in remarkable condition, except for his heart. It could go any time, the doctor says, but with good care he can walk again."

"With good care," said Rosemary, the little frown appearing between her brows. "What I want to know is."

"How's Cary?" demanded Mary Ann suddenly, to head off the inevitable showdown. Cary Marks was Rosemary's adored and adoring fiancé, a tall, clean-limbed young man, dark and handsome in contrast to her titian loveliness.

"Cary's a doll," said Rosemary, her mouth softening. "He helped me with dinner, getting the groceries. He's going to be a wonderful husband, but I told him to vamoose. I knew you'd be home, and that you would be tired."

"How thoughtful of you, dear, and we are tired. Exhausted, and we're going to bed this minute." "I didn't know then that Grandfather...." "How are Robert and Heidi? Have you heard from James? How are the girls?" Mary Ann interposed quickly.

If Rosemary had a night to get used to her grandfather's presence, maybe the impact would dissipate. Tomorrow was Sunday. It might even get lost in the rush of Church duties.

You are diverting me," accused Rosemary. "Barbara and Hank wanted to come and be here when you came, but I vetoed that, too. So did Jennifer and Dick—but all those little kids!" Jennifer's five were lively and noisy. Barbara's were older.

Robert had to fly to New York for his company—they might go there to live—so Heidi went with him. It was a good chance for a vacation, with only her fare to pay. Heidi's mother is staying with the children."

"To New York to live!" said Kim. "That will be a step up for Robert won't it." 
Ary Ann Finning thought it was just "It has been a good having them and lenine and near. If they move to New York, we'll never set to see them."

I was about to take him the principal. Byt in San Francisco We rarely noticed that he did all right seeing his family," When I de verbal] assignments.

"Tommy knows." Waited Mary Ann. And it puzzled me. All at once "Distances are nothing, nowait needed on. He can't see days," consoled Kim. "These the board!" Young ones flit around with more than you used to how smart! And fase than you used to how "Compassionate! What did it from one town to another." You do?" "Cary and Jen Way. His parents were dumnifer and Dick are talking of founding. My star pupil going to Wall. He has an offer at Church College," "I'm thrilled, you know, I" Don't talk about it," said Mary Ann always feel there are no bad children. "What about other bad situations the school, Rosemary?" Not at that case, anyway.

Rosemary had been her informant. Ommey was silent, but he had experienced, as he had verified in the fourth grade while he had verified in the fourth grade while he had verified in the fourth grade while he had verified in the fourth grade while he had verified in the fourth grade while he had verified in the fourth grade.

She had been one, having graduated late to get into Susie's too late to get "Tommy, you're making a contract for him, but she nearly pigs us. Do you take advantage of it?" "Yes," admitted Tommy. "Why don't we start" said Kim. "His thesis quarter is coming up and want to concentrate on having a perfect wedding." Notes, but it has been over-explored now. I am open to Mary Ann's surprise Rosemary's suggestions this might be Mary brightened at the mention of things other than school. Admit, on] bad situations "Mary, you know now that or what you did, sis, 'The Role of the Teacher' and 'Above and Beyond the Call of Duty.' Three found out what was the matter pec. Earlier today, watching with him? You and Cary, I almost decided "You didn't! I felt he had on 'Bridal Ossiness Before Problem,' but didn't have time to get into it before we left. What happened to Phyllis and Melba?" queried Mary Ann. "I thought they were nice girls." "Dream-boats, both of them," said Tommy. "But they wanted to get married. I didn't."

"I hope, Tommy," said Kim, "that you are not like Kipling; 'The more I see of the lot of them, the less I am settled to one.' " "The young man hunting a straight stick in the forest? No, Dad, when I am ready, she will be there—the straightest one of them all." "I hope," said Mary Ann, "that you don't get any of them into your heart room for home fall in love with you, then leave them to pine after you." "They'll survive," said Tommy callously. "You should have seen the 'Dear John's' my companions in the mission field received."

"Maybe that should be your thesis subject," observed Rosemary. "Most of my studies have been on geriatrics. It intrigues me. Grandfather, now."

"What about grandfather?" demanded Rosemary. "What I want to know, if he has to have so much good care, is how is he going to get it here? How long is he going to stay?"

She was looking at her father. He looked at Mary Ann. Here it was! "I'm going to take care of him," said Mary Ann. "How can you, with your job?" "I have to break my contract. Monday." "Just like that?" "There wasn't any other way out, Rosemary." "Couldn't Aunt Emily or Aunt Francine have taken grandfather? At least until summer?"

"They thought otherwise," said Kim. "They wanted to sell the place and put your grandfather in a rest home."

"Sell the place!" said Rosemary and Tommy in unison. This reaction, so like their own, was at least heartwarming to Kim and Mary Ann.

"I often describe grandfather's setup in class, an almost totally self-containing unit—the cows, the chickens, and garden feed the table and the table feeds the pigs. The pigs and extra produce go to market. One blissful round of living."

 

"In the older days," said Kim, "you added a few sheep and got your clothing and bedding out of it, with rabbit brush, indigo, and madder root for dyes." "Somebody ought to write all that down," said Rosemary. "I love old things."

"I remember!" said Tommy, his eyes sparkling. "Grandmother washed the wool, picked the burrs out of it, carded it into bats and made quilts. She even made her own soap—with lye and old fat." "Her mother made her own lye, out of leached wood ashes. The early pioneers didn't have to buy a thing. They grew cane and made their own molasses, spun the fleece into yarn, and wove their own homespun, even grew cotton, and raised silk worms and made silk. I've seen samples in the museums."

"How long is grandfather going to stay?" repeated Rosemary stubbornly.

"We don't know," said her father.

"What about my wedding?" pursued Rosemary. "And Tommy's thesis quarter?"

"Let me worry about my own affairs, sis," said Tommy.

"I wasn't thinking of the changes it would make in our lives when I invited your grandfather—or the burden it would put on your mother," Kim said. "Neither was I," said Mary Ann. "If you had been there, Rosemary, if you had seen your grandfather, with all of us talking as if he wasn't there, the 530 tears coming down his face in spite of his efforts not to show his weakness—his physical weakness. He is proud and independent. I was proud of your father when he told him the place would never be sold—not in Grandfather's or ours." "And I was glad to hear from your mother her true feelings about her job. I had felt all along she was just saying she liked it to make us feel better about her working." "That's all very fine," said Rosemary somewhat bluntly. "But now what about my wedding? Obviously, both of you forgot about that." Rosemary was right. They had forgotten their children in the emotion-charged scene. The full brunt of their impulsive invitation had not hit them until later. Right now, as a matter of fact, Tommy had depended on his mother for his tuition and books, no small matter at this point in his education, and Rosemary had every reason to expect a lovely wedding, on the basis of their combined income. "Well, honey, we'll out," Kim said vaguely. Mary Ann realized now that she had shielded Kim in the matter of money, rushing forth with her funds whenever something above his ability to provide was needed. How could he realize the difference her salary had made in their plane of living? All the fringe items not officially listed with utilities, groceries, and house payments, the deluxe station wagon which had come into use bringing making his father home, the luxuries of finer clothes, a bigger four-bedroom home, including the swimming pool, extra gas and expense money for all of them. "We just have to play it by ear," he finished lamely. "I don't like ear music," said Rosemary succinctly. "Or hadn't you noticed? I like to play it as it's written—and it wasn't written this way. It is obvious that my wedding is not important to you." She went into her room and closed the door with a definite bang. Mary Ann rose to follow her. "Don't go, Mother," advised Tommy. "She has to think this thing through," but Mary Ann went anyway, entering Rosemary's room after a slight, unanswered knock. Rosemary was on her stomach on the bed. "Rosemary dear! If you'd been there! If you had seen how it was, with your aunts determined to sell the place and put the old dear into a rest home. He had been in a nursing home for a month after the hospital, and he couldn't bear it. 'Old people!' he said. 'Nothing but old people! And spaghetti one day, macaroni the next!' Your father and I couldn't bear to see your wonderful grandfather shunted off in his old age, to force him to sell his home—his whole life." "I'd really rather be alone," said Rosemary, without turning over. "I have some retirement coming, Rosemary. Not a great deal, but you can have that for your wedding." "What exactly do you take me for?" demanded Rosemary, sitting up. "Your retirement is for your own old age! Now, really, Mother. I'd like to be alone." (To be continued) 531 + et =, (HA