[Vol1 | August 1914 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Salt Lake City's Fly Campaign]

SALT LAKE CITY'S FLY CAMPAIGN.
By W.
C.
Stark, Secretary Commercial Club.
When the Sanitation Committee of the Commercial Club organized the fly campaign in the spring of this year the members of the committee little dreamed that it would receive such unanimous support, for the first year, at least.
Articles on the subject, which had been carefully studied by the committee, all made plain that the extermination of the fly was a matter of tedious education and that little of no results could be expected during the first year of the work.
Results in Salt Lake City, on the contrary, have been very gratifying and if the accomplishment of the first year may be taken as an indication of what is to follow, we may confidently look for the complete extermination of the housefly here.
Very little general public attention has been given to the subject and it was not intended by those in charge that it should be.
An effort was made to actively interest those who were in a position to actually catch flies, and a glance at the 1914 fly statistics in the office of the City Board of Health will prove the wisdom and efficacy of this plan.
The first move was made early in the spring.
It consisted of a booklet addressed to adults.
The booklet contained a story of the fly, its habits and its ability to carry disease.
It told where flies breed and how often.
It urged the co-operation of every one in the campaign about to be launched.
These booklets were distributed through the public schools.
Much of the success of the campaign is due to the earnest co-operation of all departments of the city, and especial credit is due to the office of the superintendent of schools, the Board of Health and the City Commission.
The City Commission, was then petitioned to declare a bounty on flies.
Dr.
S.
G.
Paul joined in the petition presented by the Commercial Club with the result that the City Commission declared a bounty of ten cents a hundred until June 15th, and a bounty of fifteen cents a pint after that time and until fall.
A little later another booklet was printed and distributed to school children.
It also contained a story of the fly but in simpler form than the one used in the previous book.
In addition to the story, practical suggestions were given on how to catch flies.
Traps were suggested, baits were discussed and particular mention made of the bounties to be paid.
A creditable list by Salt Lake merchants was appended prizes, donated appended.
The campaign was on.
.
15 Slides were placed in all the moving picture houses.
The dangers from flies were depicted in cartoon.
Special bulletins were distributed, the newspapers responded nobly and flies came into the Board of Health so fast that extra help had to be employed to redeem them.
Every advantage was followed.
When an abnormal quantity of flies was brought in from any one district an inspector was dispatched on a motorcycle to look up and destroy the breeding places.
Many were discovered.
Old manure piles, and 95 per cent of all flies are thus bred, were hauled away and obstinate offenders prosecuted.
Slaughter house owners were descended upon and made to clean up under threat of fine and imprisonment.
Even some private homes were found supporting open garbage piles and made to improve conditions.
Meantime the toll of flies had crept slowly but surely to the million mark.
On June 15th, when the bounty of ten cents a hundred expired, well over a million flies had been turned in In addition it is estimated that at least another million were caught and killed in the large traps placed in market row and in restaurants.
This work was directly in charge of Mrs.
Cook, an inspector of the Health Department, who did valiant service all during the campaign.
Mrs..
Cook is authority for the statement that at least a million flies were caught through this source.
They were not presented for bounty and credit is due both employers and employees for the broad-mindedness of their attitude.
Some flies are now being turned in for the fifteen cents a pint being paid.
There are not many, however, and it was not expected that many would be.
The heavy work of this year's campaign is over and the committee feels well repaid for the efforts made.
Later in the year plans will be laid for another campaign in 1915.
Lessons learned this year will help its success.
Everyone has promised to co-operate and the expert advice of the University of Utah is to be given freely.
There are at least two school teachers who will give it unqualified support.
One is Miss Ida Roberts, who won a special prize of a trip to Yellowstone Park, because her pupils caught more flies than any other grade in the city from May loth to June 15th. and the other is Miss Mary Rose, who Avon a second prize, a check for $15 from the Ladies Literary Club, in this same contest.
16 .