[WomansExponent | Vol1 | 1872 | April | Issue: 22 | Title: MISCELLANEOUS. | Author: Unknown]

﻿MISCELLANEOUS.
				   —
	SMIGGLES says  that the most thrilling
tale he ever listened to was that of a rattle-
snake.
	A PAYING vein of silver has been dis-
covered on the head waters of the Arkansas
river, in Colorado.
	THE New Orleans “Times” says that the
daily interest on what that city owes is four
thousand dollars.
	THE best indication of a let up of hard
times, according to the Miami “Republi-
can,” is the large increase to marriages.
	THE directors of the Commercial National
Bank of Cleveland have voted to add
$260,000 to the bank’s capital.
	A SOUTHERN Kansas paper thinks it can
increase the population ot the town by offer-
ing to insert birth notices free.
	IT costs $80,000 per annum to keep up the
city government of Denver and supply the
aldermen with whisky straight.
	Beecher had an audience of one hundred
and ninety-eight at Rochester, and the
society realized $1:17 after paying expenses.
	IT is the general belief that a decent,
respectable man is safer on the outskirts of
the Modoc camp that in a New York street
car.
	It is believed that in less than two cen-
turies English will be the dominant lan-
guage, and will be almost exclusively
used in scientific works.
	THE Jewell “Clarion” man says he is able
to keep afloat by drinking his coffee without
sugar and turning his collar three times a
month. He thinks that’s economy.
	THE first Russian newspaper was pub-
lished over one hundred and sixty years
ago, under the special patronage of Peter
the Great, one of its principal contributors.
	SEDALIA wants to give the cold
shoulder to 1,100 colored folks, citizens of
the town, by asking the Missouri legislature
to cut off the Ward containing them from
the city limits.
	THE table on which the Declaration of
Independence was signed is still in exis-
tence in South Carolina. It has always
remained in the Laurens family, one of
whose ancestors was a “signer.”
	THE foreman of the Newborn “Journal
of Commerce” is only sixteen years old.
He and his brother, aged fourteen, set up in
a day fifteen full columns of bourgeois.—
“Eastern Paper.”
	THE “Bridge of Sighs” was a passage
in the gloomy bridge connecting the ducal
palace at Venice with the prisons, through
which condemned prisoners were led to
their death.
	THE Cathedral of St. Peters at Rome, is
four hundred and sixty-three feet; St.
Paul’s, London, four hundred and four feet;
The Monument, Lundon, is two hundred
and ten feet high.
	THE foreman of the “New Northwest,”
Portland, about as neatly gotten up a paper
as comes to this office, is but 16 years old.
the paper is set up in brevier and made
ready for the press each week by the fore-
man and two younger brothers.—“Lafayette
Courier.”
	IN Louisville some kindly disposed people
buy nuts and scatter them in the park for
the squirrels, and it has been discovered
that the tiny quadrupeds are regularly
robbed by boys. When we consider the
depravity of the juvenile heart we wonder
where all the good men come from.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
	INTEMPERANCE.
		    —
	Intemperance is taking a dreadful hold
upon some of our young men. To see the
young going to destruction, is very, very
painful to those who have the interest of
this people at heart. But what can be done?
	Our leaders have faithfully warned the
lovers of stoong drink of the consequence
of giving way to this fatal appetite; fatal
alike to body and mind, to interest here
and hereafter.
	What can a woman say against this in-
sidious disease, (for it is nothing short of a
disease,) when those having authority to
teach have failed to arouse the young to a
sense of their danger? Who can care for
the confirmed inebriate? Is he not a hiss
and a by-word, to both old and young, to
the wise and the foolish, to the religious
and even the wicked who follow not his
ways? Who can trust a drunkard? It
looks as though the fathers of our young
men are much to blame; those who set the
example by sometimes getting drunk which
is worse than habitual drunkenness. Young
men often appear to think it is something
to laugh at. They try it once, twice, thrice,
and so on till the demon fairly enters and is
seldom if ever dislodged. The beastly
habit becomes a deadly Upas tree, blasting
every good principle and virtue in them,
sinking them beneath the level of the brute
creation. It is sad to see men who might be
godlike sinking themselves lower and lower
in such degradation; but who can stay them?
The Lord Himself reasons with them, but
to no purpose, tells them the consequence,
yet still they go on reckless of everything.
Every effort to reclaim seems lost on the
inebriate. Anger, tears, or prayers, all, all
are wasted. There is, in London, a picture
of a Pandemonium. Standing before it one
can imagine the effects of strong drink.
Drunkards in tbeir madness might have
been taken by the artist for his model, the
likeness is so terribly striking. Strong
drink is like a serpent; it fascinates its
victims, throws its folds around them, fold
upon fold, until it has completely crushed
them, and leaves them a shapeless mass,
loathsome to behold. Kind mother Earth
opens her pitying bosom to receive the
wreck intemperance has laid low, she is
his last and only friend, for no one, however
near by nature’s ties, can really grieve for
the drunkard when he is on the earth no
more.
	Not alone in strong drink is intemperance
fatal. It is destructive in every form,
especially in dress. Here it attacks the
young girl, ever crying “give, give!” In-
temperance in dress has filled more brothels
than any other passion, has caused more
desolate homes than any other female vice.
Girls, beware of this passion; indulged in,
it is as fatal as strong drink; it has driven
kind fathers and husbands to ruin, shame
and death. Study to dress well, but never
beyond your means. A calico dress may be
made as graceful as one of satin or velvet;
it is not the cost of the material but the
goodness of the wearer, that makes a dress
beautiful. Many will dress costly yet never
look well.
	Love of money is often without one spark
of generosity, and like the prison whose
walls closed by mechanism, it slowly and
silently crushes out every thing that is noble
or beautiful in the soul of its victims, leav-
ing nothing but dust and ashes.
	What a vast field intemperance covers!
It is the first and last cause of sin, misery
and death. Beware, Oh! beware of intem-
perance!						     MARY.


