[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | March | Issue: 20 | Title: ACT. SEC. | Author: Unknown]

ACT. SEC.


[Column 1]
days were full of sorrow. He was succeeded
on the throne by the son of his old age,
Omer. Omer was a righteous but unfor-
tunate king. He lived to be exceedingly
old and two years before his death anoint-
ed his son Emer to reign in his stead.
	Emer was one of the best kings of his
race. In his reign the people prospered,
became owners of large herds of useful
animals and rich in manufactured goods.
Sixty-two years are numbered as his reign,
and he died full of years and honor. He
was succeeded by one of his sons, Corian-
lum, whom he had anointed four years
before his death.
	Coriantum was a righteous ruler, and
during his reign the people were blessed
and prospered and many large cities were
built. He lived until he was one hundred
and forty-two years old, and was succeeded
on the throne by his son Com.
	Com, the son of Coriantum, during his
reign the people increased greatly in num-
bers and spread widely over the land; but
they also grew in iniquity, and secret com-
binations that a few generations before had
almost caused the destruction of the race,
were revived. One of the leaders of these
bands was a son of Com’s named Heth.
This young man with others conspired
against the king, and Heth slew him with
his sword and reigned in his stead.
	Heth proved a cruel and vicious king,
and the people increased in wickedness.
The Lord sent many prophets among them
who called upon them to repent, declaring
if they did not a terrible famine should
come upon the land; but their words were
rejected and they were cruelly persecuted.
	The people still persisted in their iniquity
and the famine came as predicted, and
the horrors that attended can scarcely be
imagined. Disease followed and the peo-
ple rapidly perished. Then those who re-
mained began to repent and called upon the
Lord, and when they had sufficiently hum-
bled themselves the Lord sent the long
needed rain and the remnants of the race be-
gan to revive, then Shez, the only survivor
of the royal house, reigned over the few
that remained. Shez was a virtuous mon-
arch and taught his people righteousness,
and they were greatly prospered. He lived
to a great age and at his death was succeed-
ed by his youngest son, Riplakish.
	Riplakish greatly afflicted his people by
imposing on them heavy taxes, and when
they could not pay them cast them into
prison, where he compelled them to labor
to sustain him in his luxury and wicked-
ness. If any prisoner refused he was put
to death. For forty-two years the people
endured these oppressions, they then re-
belled, rose, and in their anger slew the
king and drove his descendants out of the
land,and what form of government followed
is not known, but after many years one of
his descendants, Morianton,established him-
self as king.
	Morianton was mild in disposition though
energetic, and during his reign the people
prospered and the nation grew exceedingly
rich. He lived to a very great age and
eight years before his death abdicated in
favor of his son Kim. Kim was a wicked
king and the Lord was so displeased with
him that he permitted his brother to rebel
against him and dethrone him, and held
him in captivity the remainder of his life.
	Levi, the son of Kim, when he was forty- 
two years old rose in rebellion and deposed
his uncle, who occupied the throne. He
was a righteous king and the people

[Column 2]
prospered under his reign, and at his death
was succeeded by his son Corom.
	Corom was a good king all his days, and
he died at a very advanced age, when his
son Kish ascended the throne. Nothing is
known of his character, but at his death
his son Lib succeeded him.
	Lib lived many years, was blessed with
a numerous posterity, and the sacred his-
torian Ether writes: "Never could be a
people more blessed than they, and more
prospered by the Lord.” They greatly ad-
vanced in the arts of civilization, they im-
proved in the manufacture of goods, agri-
culture and mining. When Lib died he
was succeeded by his son Hearthom.
	After Hearthom had reigned twenty-
four years the kingdom was wrested from
him and he was held in captivity the re-
mainder of his life. Nothing is known of
his character. For some time the kingdom
was ruled by usurpers.
	The next rightful heir to the throne was
Aaron, a son of Heth and a grandson of
Hearthom the king. He, with his grand-
father and father Heth and his son Amni-
gaddah, and his son Coriantum also, were
kept in captivity by the usurpers, but in
after years the kingdom was reconquered
and the dynasty restored.
	After a lengthy war Com, the son of
Coriantum, regained possession of the king-
dom. At this time it was divided, one
half being governed by Amghid, but after
a desolating war of years Com gained
power over the whole realm. While he
was king robber bands began to appear and
sought to destroy the kingdom. Com
fought these bands valiantly without suc-
cess, for the people generally were in sym-
pathy with them. Many prophets were
sent of the Lord who foretold the destruc-
tion of the race if they did not repent of
their wickedness. But they heeded not
the voice of warning, their words were re-
jected and the wicked Jaredites sought the
lives of the men of God. The king pro-
tected the prophets and while they were
with him they prophecied many things for
his comfort, and he was blessed of the Lord
the remainder of his days. He lived to a
good old age and was succeeded to the
throne by his son Shiblon.
	(Continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
