[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | March | Issue: 20 | Title: ABOUT THE TRIENNIAL. | Author: Unknown]

ABOUT THE TRIENNIAL.

	The ladies who attended the sessions of
the Triennial of the National Council of Wo-
men of the United States in Washington, D.
C., in 1899, will probably never forget the
impression it has made and the benefits re-
ceived. To those who have never been pres-
ent the general uplifting cannot be too greatly
emphasized. The banding together of more
than a million women to influence the ac-
complishment of great purposes must neces-
sarily be a power in any given direction. It
is not so much individual as collective
power and the individual speeches made,
however brilliant, are not the predominating
influence. It is the united force of the whole
that gives such tremendous weight to the en-
tire effect. The propagation of the ideas em-
bodied in the platform of the Council express
forcibly in a few words what is expected, and
one can judge from that what the future will
be for all women who are willing to put forth


[Column 1]
a helping hand to advance this great forward
movement.
	The International Council, which takes
in all National Councils in all the countries
of the world is to hold its quinquennial ses-
sion next June in London. There the lead-
ing representatives of the National Council
will assemble to read papers, discuss subjects
and formulate plans for the general welfare of
women among all nations upon the globe.
Many crowned heads of kingdoms and em-
pires are becoming interested in, this Council
of nations, and will send representatives
duly commissioned as fraternal delegates,
where National Councils have not yet been
affiliated. To enlarge upon the facts here
set forth one might multiply pages illimitable,
but if women are alive to the awakening of
the times mentally and spiritually, they will
seek information and inspiration upon this
great upheaval of the higher activities of the
age. 
	The meetings of the Council this winter
and the business transacted have been of ex-
ceptional interest to the writer and for lack
of space even now we can only present the
following:
THE RESOLUTIONS REPORTED.
	Whereas the National Council of Women
cannot afford to lose from its Executive
Board a woman who has had the experience
of directing its policy as President; there-
fore be it
	Resolved, That a President of the Nation-
al Council, upon retiring from her office,
shall be made Honorary President of the
Council, with all powers and privileges, in-
cluding that of a vote upon the executive
committee; further be it
	Resolved, Should this resolution com-
mend itself to the judgment of the execu-
tive committee, that the names of Mary
Lowe Dickinson and May Wright Sewall,
The two living Presidents of the Council,
be immediately placed upon the official
staff, and that the constitution be so amended
as to include past Presidents as Honorary
Presidents within its limits; be it also
	Resolved, That no one except the Presi-
dent of the Council shall have either the
title or the privilege of an Honorary Presi-
dent.
	Resolved, We believe the state should
give to all children in schools under its con-
trol industrial and physical as well as
mental education.
	Resolved, That the National Council of
Women requests the government of the
United States how it may most largely
avail itself of the services of women in the
regulation of such matters pertaining to the
army and navy as the proper preparation of
food, sanitation, nursing, medical attendance,
etc. 
	Believing that the two strongest unifying
forces off organized effort are human brother-
hood and Divine Fatherhood, and rejoicing
in the expression of humanitarian princi-
ples in the manifold activities of American
women, represented by the National Coun-
cil of Women; therefore,
	Resolved, That this universal faith in the
Divine Fatherhood should be expressed by
either vocal or silent prayer at the opening
of all sessions of the Council.
	Resolved, That we protest against the
canteen system in our army and navy.
	Resolved, That we deprecate war, and
are in hearty sympathy with the purpose of
the conference called by the Czar of Russia

[Column 2]
for the gradual disarmament of the nations
of the world, believing that all difficulties
between civilized people may be settled
judicially by a high court of nations with-
out the sacrifice of life.
	Resolved, That the National Council of
Women of the United States send a com-
munication to President McKinley, re-
questing him to use his influence in en-
deavoring to put a stop to bull fights in
Cuba, on account of their extreme cruelty
and the demoralizing effect upon those who
witness them.
	Resolved, That in view of the wholesale
destruction and threatened extinction of
whole species of beautiful and useful song
birds for millinery purposes, and the conse-
quent rapid multiplication of insect pests,
and serious menace to the agricultural in-
terests of our country and the world, and
in view of the manifest inadequacy of mor-
al suasion to prevent the wearing of birds
and parts of birds on women’s bonnets, we
urge the passage of a United States law
prohibiting the sale by hunters or milliners
of any bird plumage obtained by the de-
struction, torture or injury of birds.
	Whereas the National Council of Women
of the United States stands for the highest
ideals of domestic and civic virtue, as well
as for the observance of law in all its de-
partments, both state and national, therefore
	Resolved, That no person should be al-
lowed to hold a place in any law making
body of the nation who is not a law abiding
citizen.
	Whereas the National Council of Women
of the United States is composed of many
organizations having diverse aims and
varied activities; and
	Whereas its own chief object is “the over-
throw of all forms of ignorance and injust-
ice” by the application of the Golden Rule
to society, custom and law; and
	Whereas this diversion in its constituency
and increasing number of its allied societies
tends more and more (under the present
form of procedure) toward the presentation
of resolutions and petitions too special in
character to be fully endorsed, and too great
in number to be properly discussed by the
Council as a whole; therefore
	Resolved, That this committee on reso-
lutions recommends that at succeeding ses-
sions of the National Council of Women of
the United States no resolution or petition
be presented except such as bear upon the
subjects, policy or work of the Council it-
self, in its internal administration or in its
relation as a body to other organizations,
or to some specific recommendation of the
Council in national or international enter-
prises or meetings.
SKETCH OF HAWAIIAN WOMEN.
President and Ladies of the National Coun-
		cil:
	I have come on behalf of my people, the
Hawaiian women, that they may be allowed
the same privileges as the women of America.
	Here I wish to say in the early days of
Hawaii the Hawaiian race were ignorant,
and like all other nationalities where civiliz-
ation had not reached, were savages. But
when the word of God was brought to us
in the year 1820 the Hawaiian race accepted
it and today they are equal in education,
intelligence and capability to the people of
the United States and all other nations of
the globe.

[Column 3]
	I have been present at some of your
meetings and find that the women of this
country are working for the advancement
of the human race, more especially for the
rights of women. If the right to vote is
accorded to the women of this country, I
hope and pray that the same privileges may
be granted to the Hawaiian women, and I
ask of the National Council of Women
whose noble souls prompted them to be
present at these meetings, that they will
give me all the aid in their power to for-
ward the fulfillment of my petition.
