[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | March | Issue: 20 | Title: A SKETCH OF THE JAREDITES. | Author: Unknown]

A SKETCH OF THE JAREDITES.

	To a Latter-day Saint there is no more
interesting subject to study than the Book
of Mormon. The history of the doings and
wanderings of the aborigines of the Ameri-
can continent, or the roaming Indians of to-
day, the descendants of Father Lehi and
his associates, who left Jerusalem by the
Lord’s command 600 years B. C.
	Lehi and his little company, however,
were not the first colonists who landed in

[Column 2]
the western hemisphere. We read in the
Book of Mormon of a very ancient peo-
ple called the Jaredites, the founder of
which was Jared. He was supposed to be
one of the builders of the Tower of Babel,
and is presumed to be a descendant of Shem.
Little is told in the Book of Ether of the
private character of Jared, but he must
have been a great and good man and also
held the priesthood when God scattered
and confounded the languages of these pre-
sumptuous builders. Jared and his broth-
ers plead with Him that their language and
that of their friends might not be changed.
Their prayer was heard and the Lord
promised to lead them to a new land, choice
above all others, when He would make of
them a great and mighty people, and He
would go before them as their guide.
	In obedience to the command of the Lord
Jared with his brother and their families
and friends gathered their flocks, herds and
seeds of various kinds, and commenced their
journey in the wilderness as the Lord
might lead. They were going to a new
land far away from their eastern home,
across the ocean to a land uninhabited by
mortal man.
	They appear to have collected every
thing that could have been of any use to
them that they could carry. They took
hives of honey bees (known to them by the
name Deseret.)
	The valley into which the Lord first led
them they called Nimrod. Here they tar-
ried for a time, preparing for the long
journey that lay before them. Their wan-
derings were long and tedious, but at last
they reached the great ocean. The place
where they tarried they named Moriancu-
mer. Here they remained for four years,
at the end of which time the Lord visited
the brother of Jared (Mahonry Moriancumer)
in a cloud and chastened him and his breth-
ren, because they had grown careless and
neglected to call upon Him. Repentance
followed this reproof, and their sins were
forgiven them.
	While here the brother of Jared was com-
manded by the Lord to build eight barges.
This command he obeyed with the assis-
tance of the company. The vessels were
small and light in construction. When
they were completed Jared and his people
with their animals and all their belongings
went on board. After a stormy voyage of
three hundred and forty-four days they
reached their destination. It is supposed
they landed on the southern shore of the
Gulf of California.
	How thankful they were that they had
reached their new home! They gave
thanks to God for bringing them safely to
the land of promise.
	Their next duty was to prepare for the
future. They commenced to till the soil
and were greatly blessed in their labors.
They were a righteous people and began to
grow and increase in number and in wealth.
	In course of time Jared and his brother
grew old and died. Before their death the
people wished to be governed by a king
and Orihah, the youngest son of Jared, was
chosen. He reigned in righteousness and
wisdom, instructing the people in the ways
of the Lord. He lived to a very great age
and was succeeded by his son Kib, who in
his old age resigned his kingdom to his son
Shule. At one time during the reign of
Kib he was taken into captivity by his son
Corihor, and kept a prisoner for many years.
	Shule also reigned in righteousness
and was a great and mighty man, yet his


[Column 1]
Sisters Cynthia E. Packard and Sylvia
Griffin, counselors; Sister Alice Neves Dob-
son, secretary, and Sister Margaret A. Prea-
tor treasurer.
	We have but few members as our ward
is small, but all are interested and are ener-
getic workers so far as they are able. As
we are rather scattered on our farms, there
being no towns, some of the sisters living
farthest away having three miles to come,
our meetings are not held as often nor are
they as well attended as we would wish, and
it is a difficult matter for our teachers to
visit every month. As we hold our meet-
ings monthly we have very good meetings
when we do meet, and are always blest
with a goodly portion of the spirit of God.
The sisters are full of love and charity to-
ward each other, and try to follow the ex-
ample set them by their worthy president.
	Trusting these few lines will find room
in your excellent paper, I remain,
Your sister in the Gospel,
SYLVIA GRIFFIN.
ST. JOHN'S STAKE.
	A special conference of the Relief Society
of the St. John's Stake of Zion was held at
St. Johns, Arizona, Feb. 20, 1899. On
the stand were Dr. Karl G. Maeser, Elder
L. John Nuttall, President E. L. S. Udall,
her first counselor and some leading breth-
ren and sisters.
	After the usual opening exercises Presi-
dent Udall in her remarks said: "This is
not the usual time for holding our confer-
ence, but on account of Brother Nuttall
being here in the interest of the society we
have this privilege." Said she had visited
each society in the Stake since our last con-
ference.
	Elder L. John Nuttall said he had the
special mission of looking after the Relief
Society, given him while our beloved Presi-
dent Woodruff was living. "The property
rights of the society here are not in the
safe condition they are in and near Utah.
***The instructions I give you to day
will only be preparatory for the time when
I shall be permitted to visit you in your re-
spective wards, as the time now is too
limited. I have found in my travels that
the sisters do not understand the object of
the organization fully. The Prophet Joseph
on the first day of its organization said, 'It
is to provoke your husbands to good works,
to correct morals and strengthen virtue.'
My sisters do you realize there is anything
for you to do in this organization to cor-
rect these evil conditions? Now is the time
to put down iniquity, correct the morals
and strengthen the virtues of the children.
You can qualify yourselves to expound the
scriptures by giving lectures, reading, etc.
Take certain passages of scripture and
speak upon them. We are living in an ad-
vanced age and must keep up with the
times. Take care of your wheat, store it
up for a time of famine and pestilence, so
when this time comes, as it will come, the
grain you have stored away will increase
with you and the power of the adversary
will fail in this direction."
	Dr. Karl G. Maeser said, "I rise only to
bear testimony to the beautiful instructions
given by Brother Nuttall. If you will
abide by these instructions and put them
into practice you will indeed be saviors up-
on Mount Zion."
	President William Gibbons said we
should carry the instructions given here
this morning to our homes in the several
wards, that all the people might have the
benefit of them.

[Column 2]
	President E. L. S. Udall said, "We have
had a spiritual feast this morning. Confer-
ence will now be adjourned for six months."
	The choir sang and benediction was pro-
nounced by Brother Wm. Gibbons.
MARY E. B. FARR, Sec.
WEBER STAKE.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference of
the Relief Society of Weber Stake, held in
the 3rd ward meeting house, Ogden, March
9, 1899, President Jane S. Richards presid-
ing. Singing, "Come let us anew." Prayer
by Patriarch Thomas Morley. Continued
by singing "Come O, Thou King of kings."
Minutes of the December conference were
read and accepted.
	President Jane S. Richards hoped the
house would be crowded today, so much so
that all would realize the need of a larger
one, some had remarked that the sisters
were extravagant in wanting a house of
their own. Said she had seen many faces
since last meeting with us, but none were
so dear to her as the Saints of God. Spoke
of her visit to California and her meeting
with the Saints there, and of the holy,
peaceful influence that they enjoy in their
little meetings. It was indeed like a love
feast to drink in the sweet spirit that was
present, and to feel the firm hand shakes
and hear the fervent "God bless you" was
indeed a benediction. Many there who
long since left the fold were coming back to
us, which made her heart rejoice. She had
nothing but praise for the Saints of Cali-
fornia, such a spirit of unity was in their
midst. This same spirit was present with
us this morning, this was what we desired.
Some of the later words of our Lord and
Master were that we should "be one, as He
and His Father were one." Referred to
the Relief Society meeting held in the
Templeton, and the resolutions adopted
there on the observance of the anniversary
of the organization of the Relief Society,
and the annual membership fee to be col-
lected, and the need of the same.
	Brother D. H. Peery was pleased to meet
with the sisters, could endorse what sister
Richards had said in regard to the good in-
fluence that is felt among the missionaries
out in the world. Felt that the mission
of the sisters was great, but that they
would prove themselve equal to the duties;
they were more noble in purpose than were
the brethren. "Peace is almost leaving the
earth, men are losing faith in each other
and a spirit of malice and hatred is taking
the place of love. This is not right, we
should cultivate a spirit of charity and love.
We have come here to be hid in the cham-
bers of the Lord while His judgments are
abroad, and this should be a land of peace.
We are on the eve of the greatest events
that have ever transpired." Thought the
sisters should leave behind them a monu-
ment in the shape of a house.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young addressed the
sisters. Said to her the faces of the Saints
were the most beautiful picture she could
look upon. Her desire was to comfort and
bless the sisters. She had never had a
doubt of the divinity of this work, had re-
ceived a testimony when a child, and felt
herself the happiest person in the world.
"The Lord has been so merciful to us and
the Gospel is so grand and so glorious,
there is in it such an inspiration, a power,
a peace that the world knows nothing of.
It is a very foretaste of heaven, a preparing
for that change—the reign of peace—it is
so soul-satisfying that we have no room

[Column 3]
for hard feelings." In looking back to the
days of Kirtland and seeing the prophet and
the Temple, her soul was stirred and she
rejoiced more than ever in this grand and
glorious work. Urged the sisters to read
the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and
Covenants. "Let your children see and
hear you read them and know that you en-
joy them, and you and they will be blessed."
Referred to her own mother and her read-
ing of the Book of Mormon just previous to
her death, and the calm resignation she ex-
hibited when reading the words, "I bid
you all farewell," knowing that it was her
own as well as the prophet's farewell to
earth. Said we should never speak disre-
spectfully of the priesthood, nor allow our
children to. We should feel that we have
no trouble, everything is beauty, grandeur
and harmony, even the peace that passeth
all understanding. The prophet told the
sisters they were to bless each other. "Let
us banish from our hearts everything that
is evil, and just as we prepare ourselves to
receive blessings, so they will increase.
May the Lord grant unto us the spirit of
inspiration, peace, joy and everything
glorious through Jesus."
	Brother Joseph Hall had greatly rejoiced
in the remarks of President Zina D. H.
Young, and knew that upon her rested the
spirit of the prophet and of the living God.
The sentiments she had uttered were grand
and enobling. Gave good instructions and
exhorted all to faithfulness.
	Sister Mary Lightner felt that the spirit
of the Lord was present. "We as Saints
should set good examples, we are as a
light set upon a hill. Men have testified
that there is a power among this people
that they cannot fathom. We should honor
the priesthood of the Lord, remembering
the fate of Aaron and his sister, beware of
our doings, speak no evil, but live to be
worthy of every blessing that the Lord has
in store for us." Told of a recent visit
with a Josephite, who tried to prove that
Joseph was a fallen prophet, how she was
able by the Holy Spirit to refute the same
and prove that he was what we claim, and
that his prophecies were daily being fulfilled.
Bore a powerful testimony to the divinity
of this work.
	Sister Emily Richards believed that in
confessing our faults we gained a blessing
that we could gain in no other way. Re-
ferred to her recent sickness and the time it
had given her for reflection. Wondered
what good deed she had ever done without
some selfish motive. These sick seasons
are precious moments to us, in which we
approach nearer to our Heavenly Father.
While in this mood Sister Zina had visited
her, bringing with her the spirit of health,
which is in her very touch. Knew the
spirit of the prophet rested upon her, and
that she was "blessed above women."
Referred to the reading of the Book of
Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants, and
the peace and joy such reading brings into
our lives. We should attend Relief Society
meetings and learn from our aged sisters
while they are still with us. Spoke of her
Washington experience and how the Lord
had aided her, that she had been able to
stem the tide of opposition that she had
met; also spoke of our sisters at the Wo-
man's Council, and the good they had
accomplished.
	Singing, Doxology. Benediction by
Bishop John Alred.
