			FLECTIONS.

   My mind has teen reflecting back to the days
of my youth. My parents never belonged to any
religious sect, but ever taught me good morals,
virtue and a sacredness of keeping the Sab-
bath. On one side of us the Methodists held
their meetings, on the other side the Quakers.
I had the privilege of going to either. When
I was twelve years old, I well remember there
was a Methodist revival which I attended,
Sunday after Sunday. They told us if we did
not repent and get religion, we would go to hell.
   It so wrought upon my feelings, I resolved
to get religion, but how to get it I did not
know, for they did not tell me. I spent sleepless
nights, and agonizing days, trying to get religion.
   I would retire to my chamber and try to pray,
but all I could say was, Father, l am a sinner, for-
give me. Farther than this I knew not what to
do. I dared not fell my mother the condition of
my mind; weeks passed by, and I still continued
in this frame of mind. Finally I resolved I
would quit the Methodists and go to the
Quakers, who always eat in silence, and
told me nothing bad; so, like all children, it
soon wore away; only at times I did feel I would
like to get religion, as I thought it made peo-
ple very good.  When I was eighteen years old,
there came to our town four Mormon Elders.
I begged of my mother to let me go and
hear them preach, to which she gave her con-
sent.  Every word that fell from their lips,
sank deep into my heart.  I said, that is truth.
   They taught me how to get religion; to
repent, believe and be immersed in water,
by those holding authority from God and I
should receive the gift of the Holy Ghost,
by the laying on of hands, as in the days of the
Savior. I obeyed and I bear my testimony
to the world, I did receive that living tes-
timony, not from mortal being, but from God
my Father, revealed from the heavens; and
that testimony assured me that Joseph Smith
was a Prophet, sent from God to bring forth the
Gospel in this last dispensation.  When I was
twenty-two, I obeyed the law of Celestial Mar-
riage.  My companion was just, virtuous, noble
in principle, a man, fearing God.  His first wife
whom he married three years before, was
kind, and noble principles dwelt in her heart;
she freely gave her consent to the marriage, and
we mutully agreed to travel the journey of
life together, because we sincerely believed it
was a commandment given from our Heavenly
Father. We have passed through many trials
together, in connection with our companion, but
those trials endeared us together.  I have lived
with and beside her for forty years; we loved
each other as dearly as earthly sisters could.
   A short time since she left us; Father called
her noble spirit home; I mourn her loss,
but death cannot sever the chords that bound
our hearts together, and I expect if faithful to
meet her in the spirit world and rejoice with
her.  When I think of the women of the out-
side world and consider how they look at the Lat-
ter-day Saints, and think we are impure
corrupt, and say all manner of evil against us, I
am led to exclaim Oh! that I could speak to
the nations of the earth, and bear my testimony
of the truth of the everlasting Gospel, that God
has revealed, the noble principles of integrity
and virtue that prevade the hearts of the
Saints of God who dwell in Utah; if they
could understand there things how changed
would be their feelings!  I pray the honest in
heart may be gathered out from the nations of
the earth, and be prepared to meet the Son
of Man, who is soon to come upon the earth, and
then all those who fight against Zion will perish
