BY HANNAH T. KING.

	I intended the following little episode for a
New Year's greeting, but before finished I fell
ill, and have since had no energy for anything
but to nurse and take care of No. 1, which in-
deed is a duty we owe, not only to ourselves,
but to Him who has blest us with that most
inestimable blessing, good health. But to-day
I find myself, as it were, mechanically seated
at my writing table, and so, dear Editor, with
your assent I proceed to put this little article
into a tangible form for the columns of
the EXPONENT.
	1882 has passed away, another year added
to the Eternal Pile! Christmas has come and
gone; it brought with it its thousand whisper-
ings of the past; when young life was around
and about us, and all were so really happy and
joyous; Christmas has over produced wonderful
times and seasons—both in religious observ-
ances and in hilarious rejoicings, wonderful
re-union of families long separated, again

[Column 2]
they meet in one unbroken chain, probably
never so to meet again on earth; but the
present is before them, and they ignore all
clouds that would presume to throw over
them the least shadow of gloom. It is a sea-
son of delights. Parents, grand-parents and
children, are one in love of the holiest and the
brightest, there is scarcely a difference in feel-
ing and enjoyment, all are young for that day
at any rate; they are awakened in the morning
by the bells "ringing in" the day on which,

Hark! the herald angels sing,
Glory to the new-born King,

Who came to redeem the beautiful crea-
tion of His Father! This thought gives
a sacred limit, beyond which no one passes
in their joyous hilarity! I am writing
no fiction, but an actual experience! The
festivities of Christmas was to be my subject,
and 'tis to me a pleasing one, and after three
decades of time, the very influence of those
happy times is around and about me; I es-
pecially see one, when a happy party had
filled the house from basement to attic from
Christmas to New Year; and at last it seemed
there came a lull—I saw eyes fixed on me,
enquiringly as the mental purveyor, and a
thought rushed impromtu into my mind, and
I exclaimed, "Suppose we all write to Mr.
Warren and get our characters?" Oh! it was
the richest thought of the season! Received
with clapping of hands, and a host of compli-
ments to dear mamma and aunt, what should
we do without her, etc. All sat down and
the matter was talked over in council, "How
shall we write? What shall we say?" etc.
I said, write freely, as if you were going to
write to me; either your own thoughts, or a
selection from your favorite author or poet.
(I would say in a parenthesis, Mr. Warren
was a gentleman who advertised to delineate
the character by the handwriting, and was
creating quite a sensation by the same.)
Soon each one was seated at desk or folio,
their whole soul absorbed in Mr. Warren and
what they were going to hear from him
through his prophetic proclivities. In due
time, and after an interregnum spent in pleas-
ing anticipation, a heavy mail arrived, and
O! the opening and the reading of these
wonderful letters! and O! the "characters!"
Certainly they were most interesting and
artistic, evidently written by a gentleman of
culture; all were pleased, and most were satis-
fied. I enclose two specimens of the bulk.
The lady to whom he first alluded was for a
time fairly posed, "Can it be true? Is it pos-
sible my hand indicates such a character?"
and such like exclamations, but I fearleesly
came to the rescue; for a sweeter, more woman-
ly character could not be; she was loving,
lovable, and ever beloved. I said, ‘No, Mary
dear, it has no likeness to your present charac-
ter, but I look back to you as a child, and I see
in you then the germs that might have ex-
panded into some such a character had you
unfortunately been a boy; I then playfully,
but truthfully drew a picture of her gay, joy-
ous, wild, almost reckless spirit in childhood,
recalling some of her juvenile exhibitions, etc.
She mused awhile, and then with the sweetest
candor she looked up at me and in the words
of Agrippa she said, "almost thou persuadest
me" that there may be truth in it! Now fol-
lows Mr. Warren's portrayal:
	"We wonder if nature eyer makes mistakes?

[Column 3]
If she does, we should feel inclined to move
for a writ of error in the present instance.
We must own ourselves fairly posed. One
who signs herself by the prettiest and most
euphonious of English female names, might
be expected to enlist some of the delicate
sensibility of Cowper's, or Burn's Mary; but
the applicant, whose writing is before us, ex-
hibits more of the heroic characteristics of
the celebrated "Maid of the Mill," than of
any other Mary we ever read of in history,
poetry, or romance; we repeat there must be a
mistake somewhere. Our judgment refuses to
ascribe, and our pen to assign any very
feminine qualities to Mary Smith. In th
name of all the Smiths at once (which is a
comprehensive an oath as can well be con-
ceived), what can we say to a lady the salient
points of whose character are all manly?
How shall we mention the headstrong cour-
age, bordering upon temerity, which we so
plainly discover? In what term shall we hint
at the strong dash of combativeness which
reveals itself to our critical inspection? Shall
we breathe our suspicions of her penchant for
horse-flesh? And her largely developed fox-
huntiveness? Mary Smith in a "pink" and
unexceptionable "tops," riding after the
hounds? Mary Smith on the 12th of August,
knee deep in heather, armed with a double-
barrel? Horace Smith, or Harry Smith we
could have understood, but the martial and
masculine Mary Smith is beyond our compre-
hensive senses, the most incongruous crowd
upon our mental vision; for the third time
therefore, we declare there must be some mis-
take about it. Our mysterious applicant must
pardon us, if she feels we have been shaken
from our propriety in the attempt to delineate
her autograph.					WARREN."
	One more character: "Let us at once pro-
ceed, without any preface or preliminary, to
chronicle our opinion of the fair and amiable
applicant who does us the honor of awaiting
our critical decree. We should be acting
most unjustifiably, if we either disparaged
by faint praise, or offended by a too flattering
portraiture, one who is, at the same time, so
candid and so deserving.The character we are
about to depict possesses in a high degree the
qualities of grace, wit, tact and tenderness.
Our applicant possesses very considerable
talent; it is under the control of sound judg-
ment, and is associated with much knowledge
and varied accomplishments. Liberality in
her case is exemplified, not only in acts of for-
mal charity, but in little quiet offices of kind-
ness, in efforts of zealous friendship, and in
her eagerness to put the best possible construc-
tion on the words and deeds of others. In
her cheerful moods the scintillations of her vi-
vacity are sometimes felt as well as seen; no-
thing, however, can be more unpremeditated
than such an effect, and if an occasional gust
of impatience ruffle the usually serene sur-
face of her mind, none are, at all events, more
free than she is from the sirrocco gales of an-
ger and malice; her tastes are elegant, and her
manners fascinating, and we scarcely know
what to wish amended in her character, except
it is a slight tendency to procrastination.

"To wish her kindlier is no need,
	More prudent, or more sprightly,
Or more ingenuous, or more freed
	From temper flaws unsightly."		WARREN.

Mr. Warren and his characters, of which


there were a lapful, and the comments they
called forth, made a very pleasing finale to
that most happy Christmas, and I will throw
no moralizing cloud over it, nor shall memory
do so either; and in looking back to that youth-
ful circle, I feel each one that comprised it
recalls it with the same pleasure as I do, and
realizes the blessed truth, that happiness once
given is “a joy forever.”


