A JOYFUL TIME.
	In honor of Sister Margaret Randall, a no-
ble and much beloved mother in Israel, Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of Centreville, Da-
vis County, a party was given on her birthday,
Jan. 13th ult., by the sisters of the Relief So-
ciety. About forty persons assembled at her
residence. A bountiful repast had been pre-
pared, tables were spread and all sat down to a
luxurious feast. After supper, Sister Whitta-
ker, in behalf of the sisters, presented Sister 
Randall with a handsome dress pattern and
trimmings. Her eldest daughter presented
her a shawl from her children. The secretary
of the Society read an address, entitled, “Our
Worthy President,” expressive of the love and
esteem cherished by the sisters of the Society
for their President and their appreciation of
her kindness and good works. Sister Randall,
although much overcome with these expres-
sions of kind feelings, thanked and blessed the
sisters for their manifestations of respect. The
afternoon was occupied in speeches and songs.
It was an occasion never to be forgotten.
			S. A. Reeves, Sec. R. S.


You never know how much water an
umbrella is capable of containing, until you
accidentally stand it against the wall and on
the pearl-covered carpet that cost $5 per yard.

	The researches which the Archeological
Institute of America is carrying forward at
Assos, in Asia Minor, the site of an old
Greek town, have led to the recovery of one of
the most interesting of ancient Doric temples,
and to the discovery of sufficient details to al-
low of its complete restoration. Some frag-
ments of relics from this temple have long been
counted among the most precious treasures of
the Louvre. Many additional fragments have
now been found by the American expedition
besides other works of value, such as floor mo-
saics, vases, sarcophagi, etc.—Ex.

	For tables about which children may gather
without any warning off, whether in nursery,
dining-room or sitting-room, covers of linen
crash are used, and made handsome by outline
embroidery. Such a one has a border in scroll-
work ten inches wide, about three-eighths of a
yard from the edge, and crossing at the corners.
The whole body of the cloth is worked in a
large floral design, so as to leave large
spaces of the cloth untouched. The colors
used are shades of red, from dark brown red or
light red. At the edge small linen tassels tea
set on about ten inches apart, and hanging from
a stout linen thread an inch and a half long.
This cloth is washable as well as durable. --Ex.


