A SHORT CHAT WITH MRS. SCOTT.

	"If ye were of the world the world would love
its own; but because you are not of the world, but
I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the
world hateth you."—Gospel of St. John, xv, 16.

	The above passage of Scripture will explain
the mystery why all eyes are turning with hor-
ror toward Utah. Now, this horror and scared
feeling is all imaginary, and only seen at a dis-
tance, for the Latter-day Saints are at peace
with each other and all the world. The "Mor-
mon creed" is to "Mind your own business,"
but because they are called out of the world,
therefore the world hate them and say all
manner of evil against them falsely, for the
Gospel's sake.
	You say you would like to know how the
Mormon women do feel. I will tell you, They
all know that they are honored wives and
mothers acknowledged in society, with their
children, and are happy in knowing their hus-
bands are true to their marriage covenant,
whether they have one wife or more. The
Lord, seeing the wickedness and corruption on
the earth, in his wisdom has revealed the prin-
ciple of Plural Marriage, to purify society and
elevate woman from the degradation in which
man has placed her; and woe will be unto the
man that degrades woman, for she is a gift
from God. And I can positively assert that in
no place on the earth are chastity and virtue
in woman more honored and protected than
among the people called "Mormons."
	Now, we might be selfish and make a fuss
about our husbands taking other wives, if we
were of the world; but we are not of the
world, neither have we the spirit of the world,
but rejoice in the spirit of the Gospel, which
has made known unto us that these things are
true. I am honest to confess that nothing but
a sense of my duty to God, and a desire to
keep His command, could ever have induced
me to consent to my husband's taking more
wives, I have made the sacrifice willingly,

[Column 2]
and the Lord has blessed me abundantly with
joy and peace, which man can neither give nor
take away.
	I believe all you say with regard to the infi-
delity of husbands to their wives. There are
several cases of that kind in Salt Lake City; I
will mention one, my nearest neighbor, a Gen-
tile. He could strut around with his gold-
headed cane, drinking brandy, visiting houses
of prostitution, and moving in good society as
a gentleman, while his poor wife and children
were suffering for food and clothing, the "Mor-
mon" women administering to their wants.
Yet he would look with horror on his neighbor
who had more wives, and who provided for and
was true to them. Shame on such inconsis-
tencies! Oh, women of the world, can you be
happy under such treatment? I assure you
that the "Mormon" women need no sympathy
from Christendom, for they are happier in the
spirit of their religion than the women of the
world know how to be. Understanding the
noble mission of woman on the earth is to bear
the souls of men, and to obey the first com-
mand given to our first parents, to multiply
and replenish the earth, therefore they appre-
ciate their children, knowing, as Solomon, the
wise man has said, that they are "an heritage
from the Lord." The great promise made to
Abraham was, that to his posterity there should
be no end.
	Now, I will tell you some of our family se-
crets. The Lord has given to the Latter-day
Saints the sealing ordinance, whereby they are
married for time and eternity, husbands and
wives being united in the resurrection of the
just, to continue their family relations through-
out all eternity. How happifying the thought
that death will not separate us from our dear
one! Have the women of the world any such
assurance, when they are only married till
death doth them part? I am sincere in saying
I would not exchange places with any woman
in the world, nor give my knowledge and ex-
perience in Mormonism for all the wealth of
Christendom. While Congress is passing laws
against this people for imaginary evils, and
foster wickedness and crime in their own midst,
the "Mormons" will keep on in the even tenor
of their ways, realizing they are fighting
against God and His laws, and this nation will
have to pay the bill; for the Lord will protect
His people. Our Savior has said, "Blessed are
ye when men shall revile you, and persecute
you, and say all manner of evil against you
falsely, for my sake; rejoice and be exceeding
glad, for great is your reward in heaven.
