FIFTEENTH ANNUAL CONVENTION.

	The proceedings of the fifteenth annual
convention of the National Woman Suffrage
Association were inaugurated at Lincoln Hall,
Monday evening, by a novel lecture, entitled
"Zekle's Wife."
	The lecturer was Mrs. Amy T. Dunn, of


[Column 1]
Indianapolis, but the personality of Mrs.
Dunn is so entirely lost in that of Zekle's
wife that it is hard to realize that the old lady
of so many and so varied experiences is the
handsome and happy young wife. As a char-
acter sketch, Mrs. Dunn's "Zekle's Wife"
stands on an equality with Denman Thomp-
son's "Joshua Whitcomb," and with Joe
Jefferson's "Rip Van Winkle," and is as
unique in its way as either of these characters.
To sustain a conception so foreign to the
natural charateristics of the actor without once
allowing the interest of the audience to flag
requires something more than ordinary talent
or a mere aptitude for recitation; it requires
originality of thought, independence of idea,
and genius for action. It requires also a
thorough sympathy with each and every sen-
timent expressed by that character. Mrs.
Dunn, herself the author of her sketch,
possesses to a remarkable degree the power to
impress upon her audience the feeling that the
old lady from "Kentuck" is before them, not
only to say things for their amusement, but
also to impress upon them those great truths
which have presented themselves to her mind
during the fifty years of her married life.
	"Zekle's Wife" is a keen, shrewd, warm-
hearted, lovable old woman, without education
or culture, yet with an innate sense of refine-
ment and touching undercurrent of desire
"not to be too hard on Zekle." As she tells
her story, which she informs us is a true one
from real life, she engages the attention and
wins the sympathy of all her hearers, and
frequent bursts of applause evidenced the
satisfaction of the audience on Monday even-
ing.
	The regular convention opened on Tuesday
morning, when a business meeting was held at
Lincoln Hall, at which various committees
were appointed, the most important of them
being the committee on resolutions, composed
of Lillie Devereux Blake, of New York City;
Virginia L. Minor, of St. Louis; Harriet B.
Shattuck, of Boston; May Wright Sewall,
of Indianapolis; and Ellen H. Sheldon, of the
District of Columbia.
	At the afternoon session Miss Susan B.
Anthony, who is always cordially welcomed in
Washington, addressed the convention, giving
a succinct, terse, and logical statement of the
reasons why she demanded a sixteenth amend-
ment to the Federal Constitution; or, "Why
we come to Congress."
	The special committee appointed to attend
to the work before the Senate committee, re-
ported that two hearings were given the officers
of the convention, and that of the reports of
the Senate committee with regard to a six-
teenth constitutional amendment the majority
report in its favor was presented to the Senate
by Senators Lapham, Ferry, Blair, and An-
thony, Republicans. The minority report
against the amendment was presented by Sen-
ators George, Jackson, and Fair, Democrats.
	Mrs. Spofford, the treasurer, reported that
$5,000 were spent in Nebraska in the endeavor
to carry the amendment in that State.
	May Wright Sewall, of Indiana, then spoke
on "The Lesson of the Nebraska Campaign."
Mrs. Sewall said: "Women must learn that
power gives power; that intelligence alone can
appreciate or be influenced by intelligence;
that justice alone is moved by appeals based
on justice. More than anything in the course
of suffrage labor does the Nebraska campaign
justify the primary method of this national
association. We have a right to expect that
each State Legislature will be composed of
the picked men of all the States. We have a
right to believe that as the intelligence, wis-
dom, and justice of the picked men of the na-
tion are to the same qualities in the mass of
men, so is the fitness of national and State
legislators to consider the demands for the

[Column 2]
ballot, to the fitness of the means to consider
this question. The lesson is, let not the work
in the States he abandoned, but let all the
States unite in the national method, and let
the women of all sections, as equal citizens of
the nation, demand the nation's protection in
the fundamental rights of citizens of the re-
public, the right indeed upon which a republic
is built—the right of franchise." Mrs. Sewall
was frequently interrupted with applause, and
at the close of her address was warmly
approved,
	Mrs. Mills, of this city, sang, as a solo,
"Barbara Fritchie," in excellent style. At
the evening session the time was divided be-
tween Lillie Devereux Blake and Phoebe W.
Couzins. Mrs. Blake spoke on the question:
"Is it a Crime to be a Woman?" She showed
in a clear, logical manner that wherever a
woman was apprehended for crime the dis-
crimination against her was not because of the
crime she had committed, but because the
crime had been committed by a woman. Mrs.
Blake further said that every woman in this
country was treated by the law as if she were
to blame for being a woman. In New York
an honorable married woman has no right to
her children. A man may beat his wife all
he pleases, but if he beats another man the
law immediately interferes, showing that the
woman is not protected simply because she is
indiscreet enough to be a woman. If it is not
a crime to be a woman, why are women sub-
jected to unequal payment with men for the
same service? Why are they forced at times
to don men's clothes in order to obtain employ-
ment that will keep them from starvation?
Miss Couzins began by saying that the Ameri-
can-born woman was "a woman without a
country;" but before she had closed she had
proved that this country belonged exclusively
to the women. It was a woman, Queen
Isabella, who enabled a man to discover this
country, and in the old flag the initials were
"I" and "F," representing Isabella and
Ferdinand, showing that it was acknowledged
that the woman's initial was the most import-
ant in this matter and to be first considered.
It was a woman, Mary Chilton, whose feet
first landed on Plymouth rock. It was a
woman, Betsy Ross, who designed our beauti-
ful flag, the original eagle on our silver dollars,
and the seal of the United States, without
which no money is legal. All the way down
in our national history woman has been hand
in hand with man, has assisted, supported, and
encouraged him, and now there are women
ready to help reform the life of the body poli-
tic, and side by side with man work to purify,
refine, and ennoble the world. Miss Couzins
seemed inspired with her own thoughts and
carried the audience along with her in her
flights of eloquence.

