SCENES IN NAUVOO AFTER THE
	MARTYDOM OF THE PROPHET
			AND PATRIARCH.
		BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
	On the 27th of the following September, five
hundred troops were marched into our city by
Governor Ford, pretending that they came for
the purpose of bringing the murderers of the
Prophet and Patriarch to justice. Having
previously plighted the faith of the state
that they, as prisoners, should be protected, he
could hardly do less, but the people looked
upon this as a vain and needless display; they
could read his heart and knew full well that
he was only feigning and that this was but
another exhibition of his hipocrisy. The same
day President Brigham Young recieved his
commission as Lieut.-General of the Nauvoo
Legion previously held by Joseph Smith. It
will be remembered that previous to his death
Governor Ford had disarmed the Nauvoo Le-
gion, which fact he was reminded of on
this day, while witnessing the review of the
Legion, as several of General Young's staff
appeared in uniform but without arms. Bro.
John Taylor was still lying very low from the
wounds received in Carthage jail.
	The private instructions to Lieut.-General 
Brigham Young accompanying the order is-
sued at Springfield, Oct. 9th, 1844, were not
calculated to allay, but on the contrary, to
excite the former suspicions of our people.
	The anti-Mormons were aware of the right-
eousness of our cause, having witnessed the
patient forbearance of a poor and persecuted
people under all their accumulated wrongs-a
little handful who had managed, through the
kindness of an all-merciful Father, to outlive
the dark and terrible scenes caused by their
cruel and barbarous treatment and drivings
in Missouri and then into Illinois. But they,
like our former persecutors, saw the advantage
that the "Mormons" had gained over them,
and they dreaded the power that we would
hold in that State if allowed to remain there
and enjoy our constitutional rights. And by
Jan. 1845, the vile plans concocted by those
sectarian demagogues and scheming politicians,
were carried into effect. Our city charter
and the charter of the Legion were repealed
by the Legislature--thus making outlaws of
a whole community of peaceable, law-loving
citizens of the United States of America--the
land of our birth. Yes, and a boasted land
of liberty and freedom, for the oppressed of
all nations. But the work of God still pro-
gressed. His Saints became more united, and
the work on the Temple went ahead with
greater speed than ever before, which caused
Satan to rage with  fury. The follow-
ing incident occurred in our family on the
29th of the same month, January, 1845. My
mother gave birth to her sixth son, Brigham
Willard; her health had greatly suffered in
consequence of the troubles. The great ex-
citement and anxiety of her mind, during the
scenes through which she had passed, being
too much for her feeble frame, she and her
babe were often times brought near to the
grave; but through mighty faith and the ad-
ministrations of the holy ordinances, their
lives were preserved.
	The trial of the men indicted by the

[Column 2]
grand jury for the murder of Joseph and
Hyrum Smith began at Carthage on the 7th
of May. The names of those men are familiar
to the Saints who were then living in that
part of the country. They were: Thomas C.
Sharp, editor of the Warsaw Signal; Col. Levi
Williams, a Baptist preacher; Jacob E. Davis,
Senator; Mark Aldrich and William N.
Grover.
	It is not my purpose to go into particulars
of their sham trial, as it has been published.
Suffice it to say that those assassins were
"honorably acquitted." But if they had been
"Mormon" criminals, there would have been
no mercy shown them, but would have met a
similar fate to Joseph and Hyrum. One of
the lawyers employed in defence of the mur-
derers said: "If the prisoners were guilty of
murder, then he himself was guilty. It was
the public opinion that the Smiths ought to
be killed, and public opinion made the laws;
consequently it was not murder to kill them!"
The following letter, written to Brigham
Young by the Attorney General of that State,
Josiah Lamborn, shows how intelligent and
honorable men viewed the course taken by the
members of that Legislature, and it will hit
not a few in this vicinity, as well as those at
a distance, who, through falsehood of the
blackest die, have instituted the present mode
of crusade only for the vile purpose of demoral-
izing and plundering their more virtuous,
honorable and industrious neighbors.
	He wrote: "I have always considered that
your enemies have been prompted by religious
and political prejudices and by a desire for
plnnder and blood, more than for the common
good. By the repeal of your charter, and by
refusing all amendments and modifications,
our Legislature has given a kind of sanction
to the barbarous manner in which you have
been treated. Your two representatives exert-
ed themselves to the extent of their ability
in your behalf, but the tide of popular passion
and frenzy was too strong to be resisted. It is
truly a melancholy spectacle to witness the
lawmakers of a sovereign State condescending
to pander to the vices, ignorance and malevo-
lence of a class of people who are at all times
ready for a riot, murder and rebellion. Your
Senator, Jacob E. Davis (one of the murder-
ers of Joseph and Hyrum), has done much to
poison the minds of members against anything
in your favor. He walks at large, in defiance
of law, an indicted murderer. If a Mormon
was in his position, the Senate would afford no
protection, but he would be dragged forth to
the jail or the gallows, or to be shot down by
a cowardly and brutal mob."
	Many (we admit) were the blind instruments
of apostates and a lawless, unprincipled clique,
and the same is true to-day; but they will shut
their eyes and their ears to the truth, little
realizing that they are striving against God
when trying to compel us to forsake His laws
and conform to theirs. Laws made by men
who are doubly dyed in the darkest pools of
corruption, and would profane and defile our
temples, that are being reared to His great
and Holy name, if they could, with all man-
ner of riot and revelling. This has been their
calculation, and to break us up, but they will
find, as have the rest, that this work was not
dependent upon Joseph Smith nor Brigham
Young, but that it is established no more to
be thrown down. Though many, through
various causes, have slackened in their faith
and fallen away, and some among us have
become puffed up in the pride of their hearts,
gold having become their God, duties and
covenants are set aside. But there are those,
and women too, who are as true as the Jewish
mother was who exhorted her seven sons to
be courageous, willing to suffer and to die if
needful, rather than deny or depart from
the laws of God, neither will they “submit to

[Column 3]
the tyranny to which Senator Edmunds pro-
poses to subject them," and we will say,
"Though the Lord be angry with us for a
little while, for our chastening and correction,
yet think not that our nation is forsaken of
God. But abide awhile, and behold His great
power, how He will torment thee and thy seed.”
	As James Arlington Bennett predicted of
the "Mormons" in 1842, in a letter to the New
York Herald: "They may kill one Prophet
and confine in chains half his followers, but
another will take his place, and the Mor-
mons will still go ahead. * * * Perse-
cute them, and you are sure to multiply them.
This is fully proved since the Missouri per-
secutions, as since that affair they have in-
creased one hundred fold. It is the best policy,
both for Missouri and Illinois, to let them
alone.” And we will say as he did, "Let
not the history of Daniel be forgotten."
	Though heavy clouds seemed to be lower-
ing over the devoted heads of the Saints,
looking at times very dark and threatening,
yet they could not prevent them from enjoying
the sunshine of peace, nor the bright hope
which rested down upon a loyal and God-fear-
ing people (whose consciences were void of
offence before Him and all the world) with
a brighter glow than they had ever before ex-
perienced. A material change was wrought
in society by the cleansing process which had
been going on, as much of the filth and scum
had passed off, giving still greater enjoyment
at our social gatherings. We had our con-
certs, assisted by the finest orchestra in the
west, and other innocent amusements, in
which the youth mingled with those of mature
years, and I can look back to them as some of
the happiest hours of my life.
	The dedication of the Seventies' Hall was
one of the most pleasant incidents in my recol-
lection. Commencing on the 25th of Septem-
ber, 1844, it was kept up for eight days--every
quorum meeting in regular order, accompan-
ied by members of their families, who pre-
pared "a feast of fat things," which was par-
taken of by all, including some of the Apostles,
the members of the Choir, and William Pitt's
band of music, who were in attendance each
day to sing the sweet songs of Zion, some of
which were composed for the occasion. For a
copy of several songs, composed and
sung on various occasions in our Nauvoo Con-
cert Hall, I am indebted to the kindness of
Sister Maria Burton, who, with her husband
R. T. Burton, were participaters in those
pleasant scenes, she being thoughtful enough
to preserve them, and which I think are well
worthy of a place in history.
	I here present the Hymn composed by
Parley P. Pratt for the dedication of the
Nauvoo Concert Hall, which came off Dec.
20, 1844.
		Truth is our theme, our joy, our song,
			How sweet Its numbers flow,
		All music's charms to truth belong,
			To truth ourselves we owe.

		'Twas truth that brought us from afar;
			'Twas truth that placed us here;
		Union and truth without a jar,
			Our Halls and Temples rear.

		'Twas truth first formed our band and choir
			On Zion's western plains;
		'Twas truth that tuned our earliest lyre
			In sweet harmonious strains.

		Sacred to truth this Hall shall be,
			While earth and time remains;
		Where the band and choir in harmony
			Shall sound their sweetest strains.

		By truth our union is complete,
			Our songs in concert rise,
		And by the power of truth we'll meet
			To sing amid the skies.

		Hosanah to the Prince of Peace,
			His truth has made us free;
		All hall the day of full release,
			The earths grand jubilee.
