LIFE IS WHAT WE MAKE IT.

	To some this may appear to be a very singu-
lar, if not an extravagant statement.
	You look upon this life, and upon this world,
and you derive from them, it may be, a very
different impression. You see the earth, per-
haps, only as a collection of blind, obdurate,
inexorable elements and powers; you look upon
the mountains, that stand fast forever; you look
upon the seas, that roll upon every shore their
ceaseless tides; you walk through the the annual
round of the seasons; all things seem to be fixed
—Summer and Winter, seedtime and harvest,
growth and decay. And so they are.
	But does not the mind spread its own hue
over all these scenes? Does not the cheerful
person make a cheerful world? Does not the
sorrowing person make a gloomy world? Does
not every mind make its own world? Does it
not appear as if indeed a portion of the divin-
ity were imparted to it, almost creating the
scene around it? Its powers, in fact, scarcely
fall short of the peculiar theory of those phi-
losophers, who have supposed that the world
had no existence but in their own minds.

[Column2]

	So, again, with regard to human life. It
seems to many, probably, unconscious as they
are of the mental and moral powers which con-
trol it, as if it were made up of fixed condi-
tions and of immense and impassable distinc-
tions. But upon all conditions presses down
one impartial law—to all situations, to all for-
tunes, high or low, the mind gives their char-
acter; they are in effect not what they are in
themselves, but what they are to the feelings
of their possessors. The king upon his throne,
and amidst his court, may be a mean, degraded,
miserable man, a slave to ambition, to voluptu-
ousness, to fear, to every low passion. The
peasant in his cottage may be the real monarch
—the moral master of his fate, the free and
lofty being, more than a prince in happiness,
more than a king in honor. And shall the
mere names which these men bear blind us to
actual position which they occupy amidst God's
creation? No; beneath that all powerful law
of the heart, the master is often the slave, and
the slave the master.
	It is the same creation upon which the eyes
of the cheerful and the melancholy look, yet
how different are the aspects which it bears to
them. To the one it is all beauty and glad-
ness; the waves of the ocean roll in light, and
the mountains are covered with day. It seems
as if life went forth rejoicing upon every
bright wave and every shining bough shaken
in the breeze. It seems that there were more
than the eye seeth—a presence of deep joy
among the hills and valleys, and upon the
bright waters. But the gloomy one, stricken
and sad at heart, stands mournfully gazing at
the same scenes, and what is it to him? The
very light seems a leaden pall thrown over the
face of nature; all things wear a dull dim and
sickly aspect. The great train of the seasons
are passing before them, but they sigh and
turn away as though it was the train of a fu-
neral procession; and they wonder at the poetic
representations and sentimental rhapsodies that
are lavished upon a world so utterly misera-
ble.
	Here, then, are two different worlds in which
these two classes of beings live; yet they are
formed and made what they are out of the
very same material, only by different states of
mind in the beholders. The eye maketh that
which it looks upon, the ear maketh its own
melodies or discords, and the world without re-
flects the world within. Every disposition
and all behavior has a kind of magnetic attrac-
tion by which it draws to itself its like. Self-
ishness will hardly be a centre round which
the benevolent affections cling. The cold-
hearted may expect to be treated with coldness;
the proud with haughtiness; the passionate
with anger, and the violent with rudeness.
Those who forget the rights of others, need not
be surprised if their own are forgotten; and
those who forget their dignity, and who stoop
to the lowest embraces of sense, must not won-
der if others are not concerned to find their
prostrate honor and lift it up to the remem-
brances and respect of the world. To the gen-
tle, how many will be gentle; to the kind, how
many will be kind; how many does a loving
example win to goodness, how many does
meekness subdue to a like-manner, when they
come into its presence; how many does sanctity
purify, how many does it command to put away
all earthly defilements, when they step into its
presence. Yes, the good will find goodness in
the world, the person of honor will find honor,
and the person of principle will find princi-
ple af religious integrity in the hearts of
others. There are no blessings which the mind
may not convert into the bitterest evils, and
there are no trials which it may not transform
into the most noble and divine of blessings;
there are no temptations from which the
virtue they assail may not gain strength.
