EDITORIAL NOTES.
		   ---------
	THE Stake Secretaries of the Y. L. M. I. A.
are respectfully solicited to prepare and forward
semi-annual reports in good time for the Secre-
tary of the Central Board to make a complete
report for the annual Conference in April. This
report is required at the office of President Tay-
lor ten days before the Conference. Mrs. E. S.
Taylor, President of the Y. L. M. I. A., is
anxious there should be a report from each of
the organizaitons. Send reports to the Secretary
Miss Loui Wells, care WOMAN'S EXPONENT
Salt Lake City.
	SISTERS M. I. Horne and E. Howard vistited
Summit County in the interest of the Deseret
Hospital, leaving this City Saturday morning,
Jan 27. and returning Feb. 3. On account of
the severe cold and stormy weather they did not
accomplish all they anticipated. They held two
meetings with the sisters, one at Coalville and
another at Grass Creek; several other appoint-
ments were given out for them, but the weather
would not admit of their traveling to keep them.
Every attention possible was shown to aid them
in the work they had in view; and at some
future time the ladies, who went as a committee,
will likely visit again on the same errand.
	THE Deseret Hospital, though still in its in-
fancy, is nevertheless filling a long felt need by
the people. Some changes have been made
since the institution first opened; but these
were deemed necessary by the managers for the
best good of all interested. Unforseen circum-
stances and requirements demand such changes
from time to time in all public institutions. The
people have donated liberally to furnish and
establish the Hospital, but all benevolent enter-
prises require extra exertions of this kind unless
they are liberally endowed, and it would take
years to procure the needful appurtenances and
conveniences for such an establishment if de-
pending upon fees alone. Much charity work
has been done; but good judgment and wise dis-
criminationa are necessary in the management
to know how to adjust all these matters. The
institution commenced very small, comparative-
ly speaking. The ladies who have charge des
affaires as an Executive Committee are well
known in the community, and their ability and
experience is unquestioned; under their able
management there is no doubt that everything
will be done in the best manner possible to pro-
mote the highest interest of the institution and
its permanent success.
	The young lady installed as house surgeon is
very competent, skillful and energetic, kind and
solicitious for the good of all under her care and
the prospertiy of the institution. Dr. Anderson
is the regular visiting surgeon, and his success-
ful career as a practitioner in Utah is too well
established to need comment. There have been
some very particular and interesting operations
performed since the Hospital was opened; and
there is every reason to believe that from this
small beginning a flourshing, praiseworthy and
benevolent institution will grow, that will be a
blessing and comfort to the afflicted and injured
among the Latter-day Saints. A full report will


be given of the condition of the Hospital, and
the work done there at the annual Conference
in April.


