RESOLUTIONS.

	Resolved, That the women citizens of the
United States demand the right to vote, in or-
der that they may be able directly to influence
legislation for the promotion of morality and
good government, and the protection of the
best interests of their sex; that woman suffrage
means stable institutions, happy homes, equal
wages, aud equal purity for men and women.
	Whereas, In larger numbers than ever be-
fore, the women of the United States are de-
manding the repeal of arbitrary restrictions
which now debar them from the use of the bal-
lot; and,
	Whereas, The recent defeat in Nebraska of
a constitutional amendment, giving the women
of the State the right to vote, proves that in-
comprehension and consequent failure is the
natural result of an appeal to the masses on a
question which is best understood and approved
by the more intelligent citizens; therefore,
	Resolved, That we call upon this Congress

[Column 3]
to pass, without delay, the Sixteenth Amend-
ment to the Federal Constitution now pending
in the Senate, which prohibits the several
States from disfranchising United States citi-
ens on account of sex.
	Resolved, That the thanks of the National
Association are due to the members of the Sen-
ate and House committees on the claims of
women citizens for their favorable considera-
tion of the women suffrage measures now be-
fore them, and their unfailing courtesy to those
who have urged these measures upon their at-
tention.
	Resolved, That all competitive examinations
for places in the civil service of the United
States should be open on equal terms to citi-
zens of both sexes, and that any so-called civil
service reform that does not correct the existing
unjust discrimination against women employees
and grade all salaries on merit and not by sex,
is a dishonest pretence at reform.
	Whereas, The Constitution of the United
States declares that no State shall be admitted
to the Union unless it have a republican form
of government; and whereas, no true republic
can exist unless all the inhabitants are given
equal, civil and political rights; therefore,
	Resolved, That we earnestly protest against
the admission of Dakota as a State, unless the
right of suffrage is secured on equal terms to
all her citizens, women as well as men.
	Resolved, That the proposition to disfran-
chise the women of Utah, for no cause
whatever, is a cruel display of the power
which lies in might alone, and that this
Congress has no more right to disfrancise
the women of Utah than the men of Wyo-
ming.
	Whereas, The foreign emigration to our coun-
try is constantly increasing, having during
the past year reached the enormous sum of a
half a million of people; and whereas, two
thirds of these foreigners are men; therefore,
	Resolved, That it is of growing importance
to give the ballot to the women of the coun-
try for the maintenance of American in-
stitutions.
	Whereas, Disfranchisement is a punishment
which a republic ought not to inflict upon its
citizens unless they have been guilty of crime;
and whereas all men regard the denial
of political rights as a humiliation, Judge
Black having, in his opinion on the Ed-
munds bill, accurately spoken of "an in-
famous and degrading penalties of disfran-
chisement;" therefore,
	Resolved, That the law-abiding, taxpaying
women citizens of these United States have
not deserved the infliction of this punishment,
and do most earnestly demand that they be
relieved from the cruelties it imposes upon
them by disfranchisement.
	Whereas, during the war, hundreds of
women throughout our land entered the ser-
vice of the nation as hospital nurses; and
	Whereas, many of these women were disabled
by wounds and disease, while many were re-
duced to permanent invalidism by the hard-
ships they endured; therefore,
	Resolved, That these women should be
placed on the pension list and receive suitable
means in consideration of their services.
	After the reading of the resolutions an
animated discussion followed, Miss Anthony
showing in scathing terms the injustice of the
employment of women to do equal work with
men at half the salaries in the Departments at
Washington and elsewhere.
	A resolution was added and adopted declar-
ing that paying Dr. Susan A. Edson for her
services as attendant physician to President
Garfield $1,000 less than was paid for the
same service rendered by Dr. Boynton, a more
recent graduate of the same college from
which she received her diploma, is an unjust
discrimination on account of sex.


During the discussion of the resolution
Mrs. Sewall said that men clerks in the De
partments were given extra leave of absence
each year to go home to vote. She suggested
that women clerks be given (until the time
comes for them to vote) extra leave to medi-
tate upon the ballot.—Washington Chronicle.


