THE PRESENT TIME.
	The condition of this people at the present
time is fraught with as great interest to those
who are watching the signs of the times, the
evidences of God's power, and who are actually,
and actively engaged in helping to establish
Zion, as at any period in the history of the Church.
To say we live in a momentous age, is but a feeble


[Column 1]

way of expressing the great and sublime events
that are transpiring all around us. We are apt
to look back and admire the great men and
women of the past and their heroic deeds,
and forget that we have in our midst men simi-
larly endowed with the holy Priesthood of God,
and women whose lives of heroism and self
sacrifice equal if they do not surpass any of
those we read about in the Scriptures, and
reverence be sublimely. That this is a brighter
age and one in which greater events is to
transpire than in any other period of the
world, the Latter-day Saints are taught to
believe. Joseph the Prophet and Seer so In-
structed the people, as he was taught of God
through direct revelation; and the Scriptures
abundantly testify of the truth of his words.
	Isaiah, in his most glowing and emphatic lan-
guage, prophetic in his utterances, has graphical-
ly described the latter-day dispensation. David
the sweet psalmist of Israel, speaks in his beauti,
ful way of the wonderful events of the
latter times, and the poet inspired of God
wrote, "Which kings and prophets waited
for and sought, but never found."
	It is not strange that the very people and
nations among whom these great events are
transpiring are almost regardless cf anything
beyond the ordinary, and yet all around them
the great programme of the Almighty is being
carried out in its several acts and various details,
and will eventually conclude with the re-
demption of Zion, end all the glories of the
kingdom Daniel saw in vision that should
break in pieces all other kingdoms and stand
forever.
	"He who runs may read;" it is as plain
to the understanding of those who are walking
in the light of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, that
the events that are new on the tapis with
this people and the government of the
United States, are part and parcel, and a
most important part, too, of the great latter-
day drama. Can any one doubt what the re-
sult will be to this people of the agitation
on the subject of Mormonism, now so gen-
eral all over the land? Not those certainly
who have carefully observed the denouement
of each of the particular events termed epochs
in Church History since 1830. Those things
that seemed hardest to bear, that have been
considered, and in fact were, in one sense of the
word, the severest struggles of the saints
have in the outcome proved to be the great-
est blessings. It is not possible in a brief
sketch to mention them separately as they
have occurred, but certainly those who have
passed over the ground have seen for them-
selves. Thousands of instances might be
brought forward to prove the manifestations of
God's power among his saints; this people
called "Mormons," so despised of the world, so
hated, so persecuted. The Lord has in every
age provided, as it were, a ram in the thicket,
when He has brought his saints the house;
of Israel into strait places. Can we not be-
lieve He will do so now? Notwithstanding
the malice and bitterness of the world against
"Mormons," and their intercessions with Con-
gress to have oppressive laws passed against
them, and burdensome restrictions placed
upon them, depriving them of the rights accord-
ed by the Constitution to all freeborn men,
yet will the Lord In the future, as He has
in the past provide a ransom, but He will do
it in his own, way and time, and according to
his good pleasure. Men are simply the Instru-
ments in his hands and Legislatures, Cabinets
and Congresses, with all their wisdom, their
wealth and power, are his to mould and to
work with as seemeth Him good.
	The prophets in ancient times, as well as these

[Column 2]

in the present days, have spoken much against
being at ease in Zion; many think there is little
need of their help in the kingdom, as God will
perform the great labor of rolling forth his work.
But does not our Heavenly Father expect each
one to act nobly a part; to develop all the talents
committed to his keeping, and to acquire wis-
dom and strength to labor in the great vine-
yard? He most certainly does! It has been
through the united efforts of the whole people
led and guided by his servants that the work
has so far progressed, and let no one think his
help insignificant, for each has an important
part, be it ever so humble or obscure. The
prayers and faithful labors of the humblest of
the Saints may be as effectual in calling down
the blessing of God upon Israel, in its greatest
need, as that,which to those who are looking on,
seems the highest endeavor of the ablest man,
or woman who steps forward to assist in the
time of danger or difficulty. What could the
captain of a ship do without the sailors? and
yet he controls their labors, assisted by his
mates and pilot, and unless they obey his orders
all would be confusion, and the ship could not
reach the point they sailed for, and accomplish
the will of the owner who had sent them out
upon the ocean. And unless the captain listen-
ed to the pilot and was guided by the true com-
pass, the ship would be sure to go wrong. So
the Latter-day Saints must listen to the one
whom the Lord has appointed to direct the af-
fairs of the great ship Zion, and while he is
guided by the Holy Spirit which is ever the true
compass, for the prophets of God, the ship
will not be stranded, or cast upon the rocks
though heavy and perilous storms may arise,
and peradventure many of those on board may
become restless and uneasy and fearful; yet
if they will stick to the good and staunch
old ship they will at last reach a safe port; and
they need not sail blindly either, for each one on
board Zion’s ship has the privilege of carrying
with him a compass, the Holy Spirit in his own
heart. But to Jump overboard would be fatal.
How many have thought when trials come
along, well "I'll stand for myself, I am tired
of trusting to others, I see no way cut of
this difficulty, and I believe the leaders and
those who preside and direct the affairs of the
Church are all wrong, and I'll just give it all up."
Thus have such departed from the true light,
lost the faith once so dear to them and have
"sold their birthright for a mess of pottage!"
Nothing pays so well as to be a saint. How
many instances of the kind spoken of can one
recall, where those who have remained faithful
and true, have after years of endurance grown
doubtful, and finally fallen into darkness, and
wrecked the hopes once so strongly entertained
of salvation and exaltation hereafter. Humility
and prayers are necessities for the Latter-day
Saint. But in this busy world amid its every
day cares and perplexities, it is easy to forget to
seek diligently unto the Lord for testimony and
instead of doing so, may look around to see what
kind of lives the people are living among whom
their lot is cast, judging and condeming them
and taking their weaknesses and short comings
as testimony against the principles of the Gos-
pel, although perhaps wofully neglectful them-
selves of duties and careless of keeping the com-
mandments of God.
	There is no occasion for fear, if one will go to
with his might to do hls part, and where there
is union there will be power and the Lord will
withhold no good thing from his people. He
will raise them up friends on the right hand and
on the left, and carry them off victorious though
all the powers of earth combine against them,
for as the Scripture says "He will make the
wrath of the wicked to praise him."

[Column 3]

	Therefore it behooves the Saints to maintain
their integrity at the present time, to that which
has been revealed from heaven, be not fearful
but strong in the Lord; knowing that He holds
the nations in his grasp, and He can cast down
or raise up at His will. Never was there a time
when Zion had more need of intelligent workers
in the field than at present; and those too who
will work with wisdom and skill, and an eye sin-
gle to building up Zion instead of seeking their
own aggrandizement.


