INTERIOR OF THE L. D. S. WASHINGTON CHAPEL Candy for Christmas By Lucy Rose Middleton O recipes could be more appropriate at this season than those for making candies. A box of home-made candy constitutes a most acceptable and yet inexpensive gift. For those who are obliged to budget carefully their Christmas expenses (and that means everybody nowadays) we recommend making candy at home to save honest pennies for other purchases. Tests for Sugar Syrups Soft ball..........230 degrees F. Hard ball.........245 degrees F. Hard crack........282 degrees F. A candy thermometer is a great aid in obtaining accurate and uniform results in making candy. Place thermometer in water and bring to boiling point, then transfer to sugar syrup, to avoid heating too suddenly. When: removing it from candy, place immediately in very hot water and allow to cool slowly. Chocolate Fudge 2 cups sugar 1 cup milk 2 tablespoons corn syrup 2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon vanilla Few grains salt — 2 squares chocolate Mix the sugar, milk, corn syrup, and chocolate. Stir frequently until the sugar is dissolved and the chocolate melted. Cook to the soft-ball stage. Add the butter, remove from the fire, cool, and add vanilla. Beat until creamy then pour into buttered pans making a layer 34 inch thick. Cut into 1 inch squares. For variety, add 1 cup nuts, broken in pieces, or 12 marshmallows cut in pieces. Divinity 2 cups sugar 4 cup water 34 cup corn syrup 2 egg whites 1 teaspoon vanilla 1 cup nuts Combine sugar, water, and corn syrup. Place over low flame, and stir constantly until the sugar is dissolved. Continue cooking without stirring until a small amount of syrup forms a hard ball in cold water. While syrup is cooking wipe down the sides of saucepan with wet cheesecloth wrapped around the tines of a fork. Remove from fire. Pour over stiffly beaten egg whites, beating constantly. When the mixture begins to hold its shape add the vanilla and nuts. Pour into buttered pan or form into irregular pieces by dropping from the tip of a spoon onto waxed paper. Candied cherries and pineapple cut fine may be added instead of the nuts for variety. Penoche 2 cups brown sugar 34 cup milk or cream 4 teaspoon salt  2 tablespoons butter 34 cup cocoanut or chopped peanuts, walnuts or pecans Put sugar and milk in saucepan and stir until the sugar is well dissolved. Boil without stirring until the mixture forms a soft-ball when tried in cold water. Add butter. Remove from fire, cool, then flavor. Beat until creamy. Add nuts. Pour CANDY FOR CHRISTMAS out on buttered pan and mark in squares; or drop from teaspoon on waxed paper. For variety use chopped dates or raisins in place of the nuts. Fondant 2 cups sugar 1 cup water: 1/16 teaspoon cream of tartar or 1 tablespoon white corn syrup Mix the ingredients, stir, and heat gradually to the boiling point. While cooking wash down the sides of pan with pastry brush dipped in cold water or with a clean wet cloth wrapped around the tines of a fork. Cover and let steam for 3 minutes. The pan should not be shaken or moved while the syrup is boiling. Remove cover, put in thermometer and boil to 230 degrees F. Or until the mixture forms a soft ball when tried in cold water. Pour on marble slab or shallow tray wiped over with a damp cloth. Cool. Scrape and turn mixture toward center with spatula and work until perfectly smooth. Place in a bowl or jar and cover with wet cloth or glass lid. Let stand for 2 or 3 days before using. Cream Mints Melt fondant over hot water, flavor with few drops oil of peppermint, wintergreen, clove, or orange. Color as desired. Dipped Walnuts Melt fondant, flavor, and dip walnut halves. Pecans or almonds may be used. Bonbons Flavor fondant as desired. Shape in balls or surround pieces of nut meat or candied fruit; leave on board covered with waxed paper until firm, then dip. Melt fondant over hot water, flavor as desired and color with food 743 coloring. Do not allow fondant to become hot. If too thick add a few drops of cold water. Drop one center at a time into the melted fondant. Move gently until entirely covered. Put on waxed paper and make a coil over the top of bonbon. Stir fondant frequently. Decorate with bit of nut meat, candied fruit, or cocoanut. Chocolate Creams Melt the regular dipping chocolate over hot, but not boiling water. Beat gently until the chocolate feels slightly cool. Drop a center, made of the fondant, into the chocolate. Move around until covered. Remove to waxed paper. Decorate by making coils of the chocolate or top with nuts. Nuts, candied fruits, cleaned and stoned dates, raisins, may be dipped in the same way. Stuffed Dates Wipe dates with a damp cloth, cut open on the side, and remove the stones. Fill the cavity with the fondant, colored and flavored as desired. Press the dates into shape and roll in granulated sugar. Nuts or candied cherries may be used instead of the fondant, or chopped and mixed with it for the stuffing.