Notes to the Field For Our Music Directors Music Helps (For Literary Lesson Dec. 19, 1933) In Utah Stake Mrs. Margaret Hull Eastmond is doing some delightful work in the music department. She plans so that music talks and the songs selected shall create the right atmosphere for the lessons. This little talk on Roman Music will precede the lesson, "The Roman View of Life." The part on Christian Music will give atmosphere to the Bible Lessons. Roman Music N Greece all art represented the ideal of beauty. Music was supposed to drive out all jealousy, pride, angry feelings, weakness of soul. The drama included dancing and song, and choruses often sang the themes of the play. In Rome the music was a reappearance of gay Grecian music and a blending with that of the pagans—drums of Syria, cymbals of Tyre, In the theatres were flutes and lyres, songs of Grecian chorus singers and bands of Egyptian musicians. "All the world's minstrelsy was there, in that great churning-press of nations which men called Rome." Music was presented in theatres, not in Temples as in Greece. These theatres were places of spectacle and amusement, not of worship. Tragedy had passed and pantomime took its place. Choruses took no part in the action of the play. All the religious element was gone. A kind of orchestra, vocal and instrumental, accompanied the gestures of the players. Roman music lacked the chastity of Greek art. Nero was the chief patron, but pagan music died with him. (For Literary Lesson, Jan. 16, 1934) Then came the Christians, and in their worshipping they sang their songs of praise in hidden places and in muffled voices. These songs unconsciously framed the new music of the world. Grecian music was born "amid the patter of dancers' feet and in showers of sunlight." But Christian music had its birth in underground passages, among desperate men, amid sorrow and fear. Their psalms were muttered rather than sung, The early Christians used the voice to praise the Lord. They did away with instruments. These, they said, paid honor to idols. "As David sang psalms on his harp to the Lord, so do we, too, sing, but on a harp whose strings are alive—our tongues are the strings; and more the Lord does not require." They sang, or chanted, their songs of praise as they worshipped or walked along to places of punishment or death. Pomp and worldliness crept in later and this music lost its simplicity. Great choruses, or choirs sang to and with large congregations. The first choirs were men, but later women were allowed to join. Y Suggested Songs: "The Doxology," L. D. S. Hymns, No. 26. "Thy Will Be Done," Sunday School Song Book, No. 237. fees PO THE FIELD (For Social Service Lesson, Dec. 26, 1933) The Discussion of Sleep Habits First Song, "Angry Words," Sunday School Song Book, No. 67. A short program of Cradle Songs. Will be appropriate. Or the whole Society may practice several of these songs—such as: "Cradle Hymn," Primary Song Book, No. 1; Sunday School Song 745 Book No. 214. "Rock-a-bye Baby," Primary Song Book, No. 53; Pioneer Songs, page 64. Brahms, "Cradle Song.". The Primary children can furnish a program and make the lesson very effective. On Social Service days, if the music creates the atmosphere of children, the lessons are more impressive, A Magazine Program HE LeGrande Ward featured for its opening meeting the Relief Society Magazine. Various speakers treated the following subjects. The Size and its Cover. The value of the Magazine to the Visting Teacher. The Theology of our Magazine. The Literature of our Magazine. Its Art Subjects and pages of interest to our Mothers. Its page about women. Its recipes. Some of the fine thoughts brought out were: That just as school is now beginning, we have 63,000 women beginning courses in adult education. As children need text-books, so do women of the Relief Society need the Magazine as a fundamental textbook for all their lesson work. The world needs Spirituality. People can get it from the Magazine. The magazine gives an opportunity for women to express themselves in print. Writers and readers have the same outlook on life. There is a harmony of soul between them. The art subjects are most helpful inbeautifying our homes. The Magazine breathes into the homes a wonderful spirit. Eight cents a month will put into the hands of the subscribers a textbook and good wholesome reading for every member of the family. After a harmonica orchestra had played "Our Maryland," a group of women sang the following song: and later all present joined in singing it. OUR MAGAZINE (Tune: Maryland) Oh, have you seen our magazine, Our magazine, our magazine, Its pages beam with lines serene, Our magazine, our magazine, Go North, go South, go East, go West, Our magazine leads all the rest, Within its covers you can trust, Knowledge abounds that will not rust. And when we find a gem so rare, Let us to our friends declare, It'is the help we need today, Come along and with us say: _Go North, go South, go East, go West, Our magazine leads all the rest, Now with these praises it will seem YOU should take our Magazine. —Mary Stevenson. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD - - MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND THE GENERAL BOARD President Fee Coungelor - Second Counselor Canemil Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs.-Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Katie M, Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor: Manager - - - - - Assistant Manager: - Mary Connelly KIMBALL Louise Y. Rosrson Amy Brown Lyman