Christmas Given over KSL December 23, 1932 By Elise B. Alder "Why do bells on Christmas ring? Why do little children sing? Once a lovely, shining star, Seen by shepherds from afar, Gently moved until its light Made a manger—cradle bright. "There a darling baby lay Pillowed soft upon the hay, And his mother sang and smiled 'This is Christ, the holy child.' So the bells for Christmas ring, So the little children sing." —Lydia A. C. Ward. CHRISTMAS as we all know C is a most delightful day. People all over our broad land, even those who do not recognize its beautiful religious significance, unite joyously in this time of gift giving and good will to all mankind. There is a legend that on every Christmas eve the little Christ child wanders all over the world bearing on its shoulders a bundle of ever greens. Through city streets and country lanes, up and down hill, to proudest castle and lowliest hovel, through cold and storm and sleet and ice, this holy child travels to be welcomed or rejected at the doors at which he pleads for succor. Those who would invite Him and long for His coming set a lighted candle in the window to guide Him on His way hither. They also believe that He comes to them in the guise of any alms craving wandering person _ who knocks humbly at their door for sustenance, thus testing their benevolence. In many places the aid rendered the beggar, is looked upon as hospitality shown to Christ. This legend embodies the true Christmas spirit which realizes with a rush of love to the heart, the divinity in every one of the least of these our brethren. Selfishness is rebuked, the feeling of universal brotherhood is fostered while the length of this holiday season, by encouraging the reunions of families and of friends, provides a wonderful rallying place for early affections. A wholesome and joyous current of religious feeling flows through the entire Season to temper its extravagance and regulate its mirth. Christmas is the birthday of One whose chief contribution to the human heart and mind was His message of boundless universal love. He brought to the world the greatest thing in the world and that is why the Season of His birth has won such an intimate place in our hearts and why its joyous bells find an echo there. IF the spiritual good cheer of Christmas Day were generally manifested throughout the year it would transform mankind. Love is still the greatest thing in all the world and winged messengers of joy carol these words: "So old and strange the Wise men seem, And yet, how well we know 'Twas your Dream and my Dream They followed long ago! "The camel bells sound faint and far, But though they fall so light, 'Twas your Star and my Star They followed through the night." —Nancy Byrd Turner. Like the Wise men of the East who brought gifts to the Christ Child, we make gifts at Christmas CHRISTMAS time. Let us choose wisely, give intelligently and not extravagantly. "A mother was watching on Christmas night Rocking her babe by the candle light And she lifted her eyes in the gathering gloom For the Christ Child stood in her lowly room. 'What shall I give to thy child?' He said, Softly caressing the sleeper's head— 'Nay! Said the mother, O angel guest, Give her what ever thou deemest best;' 'What shall I give her, O mother mild, Ask what thou wilt for thy little child. Shall I kiss her brow that her eyes may shine With a beauty that man will call divine? Shall I touch her lips that they may flow With songs the sweetest the world may ~ know?' 'Nay! Said the mother that will not stay Songs are forgotten and hair turng gray.' 'But what shall I give her?' He asked again, 'Ask and thou shalt not ask in vain.' And the mother lifted her eyes above 'Give her purity, truth and love;' and the Christ Child turned to her gentle and mild 'Thou has't chosen the best for thy little child; Be not afraid though life be sore I shall be with her forever more'." George McDonald says—"If instead of a gem or even a flower, we could cast the gift of a lovely thought into the heart of a friend, that would be giving as the angels must give." The most obvious lesson in Christ's teaching is that happiness is not in having or in getting but only in giving. HERE are many strange customs in celebrating the Yuletide. But one thing is the same everywhere, The Universal Christmas Spirit. It makes us feel more than ever that people all over the land are very much 'like one big family after all. It is a beautiful custom derived from days of 727 yore that this festival, which commemorates the announcement of the religion of peace and love, has been made the season for gathering together of family connections, and drawing closer again those bands of kindred hearts, which the cares and pleasures and sorrows of the world are continually operating to cast loose; of calling back the children of a family to assemble about the paternal hearth, that rallying place of the affections, there to grow young and loving again among the endearing memories of childhood. It seems to throw open every door, unlock every heart. 'Happy, happy Christmas that can win us back to the delusions of our childhood days." "Peace on earth, good will to men" is the message "In peace the earth grows kindly and benef icent: With good will men grow kindly and loving. In peace the earth laughs in its harvests; in good will men joy in their gifts. Henry Van Dyke says: It is a good thing to observe Christmas Day, but there is a better thing than the observance of Christmas Day, and that is, keeping Christmas. Are you willing to forget what you have done for other people, and to remember what other people have done for you; to ignore what the world owes you, and to think what you owe the world; are you willing to believe that love is the strongest thing in the world—stronger than hate, stronger than evil, stronger than death—and that the blessed life which began in Bethlehem over 1900 years ago is the image and brightness of the Eternal Love? Then you can keep Christmas. To give is to gain." And unless Christmas means sume sacrifice and some radiance of joy and comfort and hope to a human being, it will indeed be a dull and 728 cheerless Yuletide. Let this Christmas. Be one of happiness, and the new year will be radiant with hope and filled with the impulse of doing some thing for somebody every day. "What angels sang on that first Christmas morn, 'Good will to men', 'The Prince of Peace is born, Breakg once again in benediction clear, Sure song of God, the climax of the year. 'Good will and peace', the song is on the air, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 'Good will and peace,' I hear it everywhere— 'Peace on earth', in purpose divine, 'Good will to men'—and a good will to mine c Oh friends unseen, no gift is in my power;: Gold would be dross in this triumphant hour. Take, then, the strains the angels sing to me 'Good will and peace, I send it all to thee'."