For Six at Christmas-Tide By Elsie Talmage Brandley Around a table where the lamplight spreads A ring of warmth, a pool of golden cheer, Sit six I love, with pencils poised, and brows Drawn into lines of puzzlement severe; Of vital import is the work at hand— To Santa Claus they write of little schemes, To tell him of their needs and wants and hopes, To ask him to remember all their dreams. Their names are signed, and, ere the dream-fraught page Shall flutter, flame-borne, up the chimney-place, They ask that I shall read with critic's eye; Anxiety is stamped on each young face. * * * To bed they troop, eyes full of distances— So many things to make them glad they see; Their letter safely off, their prayer well-said, They give themselves to slumber, peacefully. Tonight six children rest in deep repose, Their slates of life all clear, their troubles few; Tomorrow they will be six women grown, With all the problems of the world in view. They ask for party-dress with silken sheen; For necklace on a white young throat to wear; For books and games; for fruit and candy sweet; A wrist-watch, and a doll with curly hair— * * * My eyes grow misty, and the fire-flames Are silver stars and arrows to my sight. Where shall I seek to find for them the gifts That I would put in stockings six tonight? I would find magic fabric for a gown To wrap its wearer close in happiness; Its folds to be a cloak of modesty, Its silver gleam white innocence to dress. I would find jewel of luster pure and clear— The thoughts and hopes of radiant maidenhood; Its setting simple, as the purest joy Is found in simple task and quiet good. Their books should whisper from the pages new Secrets of laughter and of hallowed tears; Their games enchanted be—the games of life, And rules to play them fair throughout the years. Where to find sweets of spirit, and of heart? Of kindly words to help along the way? Where grow the fruits of years well-lived and loved?— These would I put in stockings six, today! The watch should tick away throughout the hours And measure only moments glad and gay, And sound a little chime when danger nears, And warn temptations, fraught with fear, away. A doll I'd find endowed with power to speak And whisper all the joys of motherhood; With hands to grasp the heartstrings of a girl And guide her into pathways light and good. * * * I seek in vain for magic frock and jewel; For witchery of time-piece, silver-chimed. And drop, instead, a wordless little prayer That life will bring the gifts I cannot find. * * * And when their childhood days are put aside, May they dream dreams for six, at Christmas-tide!