[Vol29 | February 1942 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: In Lyman]
President  Amy  Brown  Lyman 
CHAPTER  II 
Childhood 
THE      Brown     children     were  thing  appropriate  for  almost  any  oc- 
brought  up  in  a  strictly  relig-  casion. 
ious  atmosphere  and  they  were  We  sometimes  used  to  think  fa- 
taught  to  observe  the  teachings  and  ther  was  too  straight-laced  and  old- 
standards  of  the  Church.  Family  fashioned  because  he  did  not  always 
prayers  were  observed  daily,  and  see  things  as  we  did;  for  example, 
monthly  Fast  Days  were  regularly  he  would  not  allow  us  to  attend 
kept.  All  earnings  were  carefully  dances  held  in  adjoining  towns,  and 
tithed  and  the  Word  of  Wisdom  he  would  not  permit  us  to  go  into 
was  faithfully  observed.  We  were  the  canyons  on  holidays  or  week 
always  in  attendance  at  Sunday  ends  with  mixed  groups  without 
School  and  Primary  meetings,  and  elder  chaperones.  This  sometimes 
we  were  expected  to  attend  sacra-  was  very  embarrassing  to  us,  and 
ment  meeting  on  Sunday  afternoon,  really  we  felt  as  sorry  for  him  as  we 
This  did  not  seem  a  hardship,  how-  did  for  ourselves, 
ever,  since  there  was  really  little  else  Our  home,  a  one  and  one-half 
to  do.  story  adobe  house,  was  lighted  with 
The  Sunday  School  class  of  which  kerosene  lamps  and  candles— lamps 
I  was  a  member  occupied  two  long  for  downstairs  and  candles  for  up- 
benches  which  extended  the  full  stairs.  With  a  family  of  seven  young 
width  of  the  Church.  Our  teacher  children,  mother  thought  it  was  not 
had  no  guide  or  lesson  outlines  to  safe  for  us  to  carry  oil  lamps  upstairs, 
follow.  Classwork  consisted  largely  The  candles  were  molded  by  her  own 
of  scripture  reading  by  the  teacher  hands,  and  as  we  ascended  the  stairs 
and  the  pupils.  We  read  in  turn  as  each  evening,  a  mark  on  the  candle 
the  Bible  was  passed  along,  and  oc-  indicated  how  long  we  could  study, 
casional  comments  were  made  by  the  or  visit,  or  play  before  we  retired, 
teacher.  Since  a  number  of  classes  Lamps  were  quite  a  bother.  They 
were  held  in  the  same  room  of  the  1^^^  to  ^^  filled,  wicks  had  to  be 
chapel,  which  was  the  only  room  trimmed,  and  chimneys  had  to  be 
available,  it  was  always  hard  to  fol-  cleaned  every  morning, 
low  the  lesson.  But  we  did  get  ac-  We  had  no  running  water  in  the 
quainted  with  the  scriptures.  It  is  home.  All  water  for  household  use 
unfortunate  that  there  is  not  more  was  drawn  from  a  deep  well  and 
scripture  reading  today.  My  mother  carried  into  the  house.  We  were 
was  so  familiar  with  the  Bible  that  well  supplied,  however,  with  wash- 
she  could  give  quotations  that  ap-  basins,  soap,  and  towels,  and  we 
plied  to  almost  any  situation,  some-  were  instructed  how  and  when  to 
Page  80

IN  RETROSPECT 
81 
use  them.  In  taking  a  bath  we  had 
to  use  a  washtub,  place  it  behind 
an  improvised  curtain,  and  curl  up 
in  it  as  best  we  could.  Later  we 
had  a  long,  portable,  tin  bathtub. 
Our  laundry  was  all  washed  on  a 
board,  including  sheets,  bedspreads, 
and  men's  shirts. 
For  heating  and  cooking  we  had 
old-fashioned  stoves— one  in  the  par- 
lor, or  best  room,  which  was  lighted 
only  on  Sundays  and  special  occa- 
sions, another  in  my  mother's  bed- 
room, and  the  cookstove  in  the 
kitchen.  A  pipe  ran  up  from  the 
stove  in  the  bedroom  to  a  drum  in 
the  bedroom  above,  which  was  sup- 
posed to  make  a  warm  place  for  us 
to  dress.  We  usually  had  but  one 
fire  at  a  time,  and  we  were  cold  as 
soon  as  we  moved  away  from  the 
stove.  We  were  thus  either  too  cold 
or  too  hot— usually  too  cold  during 
most  of  the  winter.  We  had  the 
same  situation  at  school,  and  most 
of  the  children  suffered  from  chill- 
blains.  Lack  of  overshoes  or  rub- 
bers added  to  our  discomfort. 
We  wore  much  more  clothing 
than  girls  do  today.  Ours  was  all 
homemade,  including  our  stockings. 
The  underwear,  of  which  we  wore 
aplenty,  was  usually  made  of  un- 
bleached muslin  which  was  hung 
out  on  the  clothesline  or  laid  on  the 
grass  and  sprinkled  often  until  it  be- 
came soft  and  white.  Our  sheets 
and  pillowcases  were  also  made  of 
the  same  material  in  a  heavier  grade. 
In  the  winter  we  wore  at  least  two 
petticoats  at  a  time— a  heavy  woolen 
one  underneath  with  a  thinner  one 
on  top.  We  wore  warm,  well-lined 
wool  dresses.  On  our  heads  we  wore 
knitted  hoods  or  fascinators;  on  our 
hands,  home-knitted  woolen  mit- 
tens.     Sweaters  were  unknown  in 
AMY  AND  HER  BROTHER,  NOW 
DR.  JOHN  Z.  BROWN 
those  days.  In  the  summer  we  wore 
calico,  Swiss,  and  lawn  dresses  with 
several  stiffly-starched  white  petti- 
coats. As  children,  we  always  wore 
aprons  to  school— little  front  aprons; 
and  even  at  Brigham  Young  Acad- 
emy the  grownups  wore  aprons  — 
dainty,  white  muslin  ones  trimmed 
with  lace  or  embroidery.  My  first 
school  dress '  when  I  entered  the 
Brigham  Young  Academy  was  a 
pretty,  gray  linsey-woolsey  trimmed 
with  ball-shaped,  cherry-red  buttons; 
and  my  Sunday  dress  was  a  wine- 
colored  wool  cashmere.  Both  of 
these  dresses  were  lined  and  well 
boned.  Our  bathing  suits  were  made 
to  well  cover  our  bodies,  and  with 
them  we  wore  long  stockings. 
Our  bedsteads  were  wooden  with 
slats  laid  across  upon  which  were 
placed   large,    bulging,    straw   ticks

82 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY,  1942 
which  were  refilled  with  clean,  fresh 
straw  each  autumn  at  threshing  time. 
Upon  the  straw  bed  was  placed  a 
feather  bed— a  closely-woven  tick 
filled  with  feathers  plucked  from  our 
own  fowls.  Our  floors  were  covered 
with  homemade  rag  carpets  woven 
on  our  own  loom  by  mother,  who 
was  an  expert  weaver  not  only  of  car- 
pets but  of  woolen  cloth  and  bed- 
spreads. We  were  able  later  to  secure 
a  ''states  carpet"  (ingrain)  for  our 
best  room.  A  thick  layer  of  straw  was 
placed  under  the  carpets  as  padding. 
Like  most  other  families,  we  were 
the  proud  possessors  of  a  reed  organ. 
AS  I  look  back  I  am  surprised  that 
we  had  such    a    well-balanced 
diet  in   those  early  days.     It  was, 
of  course,  limited  largely  to  what 
we  could  produce.     We  had  milk 
and  butter,  a  variety  of  fruit  and 
vegetables,  and  enough  meat  for  our 
good.    With  a  good  root  cellar,  we 
had  potatoes  and  other  root  vege- 
tables practically  all  winter,  and  our 
cellar  shelves  were  filled  with  pre- 
serves, dried  and  canned  fruits.    We 
planted  lettuce  and  radishes  in  re- 
lays—as one  patch  was    being    ex- 
hausted, another  was    coming    on. 
Our  meat  consisted  of  chicken  and 
pork  which  we  raised  ourselves,  and 
occasionally  we  had  beef,  which  cost 
as  little  as  ten  or  fifteen  cents  per 
pound.  It  seems  to  me  that  the  hams 
cured  by  my  mother  were  the  best 
I  have  ever  tasted.    In  the  summer 
we  had  ice  cream  on  special  occa- 
sions.      As  children,  we  had  very 
little  money,  and  it  was  only  occa- 
sionally that  we  could  get  a  bit  of 
"store  candy,''  and  then  it  would 
usually  be  only  an  egg's  worth.     I 
sometimes  wonder  how  those  store- 
keepers could  tell  how  much  candy 
to  give  for  one  egg.  Occasionally 
we  were  allowed  to  make  molasses 
or  honey  candy. 
Babies  fared  the  worst  of  all  in 
those  early  days.     Feeding  a  bkby 
on  a  regular  schedule  was  not  cus- 
tomary and  probably  not  even  advo- 
cated at  that  time.     Often  a  busy 
mother  nursed  her  baby  or  gave  it 
other  food  whenever  it  cried.  Babies 
usually  slept  with  their  mothers,  and 
when  they  were  restless  and  wakeful 
they  were  allowed  to  nurse.    Bottle- 
fed  babies  nursed  from  bottles  with 
flat    bottoms,  shaped  like  a  duck. 
These  were  placed  down  in  the  bed 
to  keep  the  milk  warm,  and  to  them 
were  attached  long    rubber    tubes, 
about  the  size  of  a  lead  pencil,  which 
could  not  be  well  cleaned.    Nipples 
were  attached  to  these  rubber  tubes. 
Babies  and  children  were    not    re- 
quired to  take  milk  if  they  did  not 
like  it;  they  were  given  other  food 
instead.     I  remember  one  mother 
who  said  her  nine-month  old  baby 
did  not  like  milk,  so  she  brought  it 
up  mostly  on  bread  and  molasses, 
which  the  baby  seemed  to  relish.  As 
soon  as  a  baby  could  sit  up  in  a  high 
chair  it  was  taken  to  the  table,  and 
it  was  fed  a  little  of  whatever  it 
reached  for.    Pacifiers  were  made  by 
tying  small  pieces  of  milk-soaked, 
sweetened  bread  in  a  white  cloth. 
It  is  no  wonder  that  babies  suffered 
so  much  from  stomach  and  intes- 
tinal trouble  and  that    the    infant 
death  rate  was  high,  especially  among 
bottle-fed  babies. 
Our  dinner  table  was  set  with  a 
bright  oilcloth,  with  a  blue  and 
white  or  red  and  white  checkered 
cloth,  or  with  a  cloth  made  of  un- 
bleached muslin.  Real  linen  was 
used  only  for  very  best.    Our  plates

IN  RETROSPECT  83 
were  turned  upside  down  over  the  quite  regularly,  and  some  mothers, 
knives  and  forks,  and  the  teaspoons  when  one  child  in  the  family  was 
were  placed  in  a  tall,  glass  holder,  stricken,  would  take  no  pains  to  pro- 
A  revolving  caster  with  bottles  for  tect  the  others  from  exposure,  be- 
salt,  pepper,  mustard,  and  ketchup  cause  it  was  thought  that  everyone, 
was  placed  in  the  center  of  the  table,  sooner  or  later,  would  have  measles; 
We  were  a  healthy  family  of  chil-  ^"^  since  the  disease  was    harder 
dren.    Mother  was  our  doctor,  and  ^^  grownups  than  children,  it  was 
she  brought  us  up  on  Doctor  Gunn's  thought  to  be  a  good  thing  to  have 
medical  book,  with  which  she  was  '^  ^"^^^  with  while  young.    Smallpox 
very  familiar.  She  was  well  informed  seemed  to  be  the  one  disease  which 
on  all  symptoms  of  disease,  and  she  P^^P^^  ^"^^  how  to  combat.    I  very 
advised  and  treated  the  whole  neigh-  well  remember  our  first  epidemic  of 
borhood.    In  the  spring  of  the  year  smallpox.  We  children  were  all  vac- 
we  were  given  molasses  and  sulphur,  ^^ated  by  mother,  who  secured  a 
and  sassafras  tea    to    ''cleanse  our  Pf  ^^  ^^  scab  from  a  sore  on  the  arm 
blood."  When  there  was  diphtheria  °^  ^  relative  in  Lehi  who  had  been 
in  town    we    wore    asafetida  bags  successfully  vaccinated.    Thanks  to 
about  our  necks,  which    made    us  doctor  Gunn,  she  dipped  the  needle 
smell  like  gariic.    This  gummy  sub-  '"    alcohol,    and    her    vaccination 
stance  was  supposed  to  be  an  effec-  ^^^^^^  successfully  with  all  of  us. 
tive  preventive.  Another  scourge  of  those  days  was 
Diphtheria  was  the  terror  of  my  puerperal    fever    (child-bed   fever), 
childhood.    During  one  siege  three  When  I  was  ten  years  old,  my  sister 
of  the  five  children  in  the  family  Laura  and  five  other  young  mothers 
of  our  neighbor  died— two  died  one  in  Pleasant  Grove  lost  their  lives 
day,  and  the  third  the  next.    They  within  two  months'  time,  leaving  six 
were  passed  out  through  a  bedroom  tiny  babies.    These  women  were  all 
window  in  black,  homemade  coffins,  cared  for  by  the  same  midwife  who, 
and  placed  in  the  bed  of  a  farm  though  innocently,  no  doubt  carried 
wagon  to  be  taken  to  the  cemetery,  the  germs  from  one  patient  to  an- 
where  brief  funeral    services    were  other.    The  maternal  death  rate  in 
held.  There  were  no  hearses  in  those  ^11  America  was  high  at  that  time, 
days.     In  another  family  five  chil-  and  maternal  morbidity,  or  lack  of 
dren  out  of  eight  were  stricken  with  Ml  recovery,  was  common.     After 
this  terrible  disease.     The  parents  we  had  grown  up,  mother— whose 
became   so  desperate  and  terrified  partial  invalidism  was  the  result  of 
that  they  set  fire  to  their  home;  the  ^ack  of  proper  care  and  attention  in 
home    and    everything    in    it    was  childbirth— helped  to  secure  a  teach- 
burned.  er  and  organize  a  class  in  obstetrics 
Scarlet  fever  was    less    common  and  nursing  for  the  benefit  of  young 
and  less  fatal,  but  it  was  also  greatly  ^^men  m  our  town.     She  insisted 
dreaded.    I  knew  children  who  be-  ^"^  ^^^  ^^^   daughters   taking   the 
cause  of  it  were  left  with  serious  kid-  ^^^^se. 
ney  trouble,  and  others  with  deaf-  Without    mother's    consent    or 
ness.       The  measles  came  around  knowledge,   I  decided  one  day    to