[Vol29 | February 1942 | Sequence: 34 | Category: Article | Title: Sources of Spiritual Refreshment]
sources, and energies toward winning the war. The efforts of many civilians are required to equip and keep one man aes A GOOD SELECTION OF VEGETABLES FOR SALADS. LETTUCE, CUCUMBER, PEPPER, TOMATO AND CELERY CABBAGE.
Distribution tie-ups which have afflicted every country engaged in war, then every family controlling a bit of fertile, productive soil must have a garden. The disappearance of surpluses and an increase in the price of fresh vegetables are considered a certainty at the front for service in the modern fighting force. The fighters need food; the workers who help equip the fighters need food. One of the indispensable war production items is food. War gardens, in which are produced vital, prospective foods for home use, have now become a national necessity. If the United States is to continue enjoying food in abundance, if it is to escape the production shortages and by many authorities. As employment has increased, the demand for many food products has increased rapidly.
This is another reason why increased production of food is necessary.
Reports tell us that many women of Britain have kept up their morale during the war by caring for small, back-yard gardens. The protection and care of the health of people in this nation during this war is going to be one of the Page 105 =e sl | \ —_—_—_—_——- CUCUMBERS TRAINED ON WIRE FENCE major problems of the Government. The campaign to accomplish this has already started. We all recognize the health values to be found in fresh air, sunshine, and exercise. We also know the health values to be found in fresh vegetables. A wellkept vegetable garden is a source for all of these as well as a financial profit to the owner and a pleasure to the entire family. The home vegetable garden should be a family interest, and all members of the family who are able to do so should take part in its care and cultivation.
Agricultural leaders of the nation expect an increase of about one and one-third million home vegetable gardens this year. It is a great satisfaction to have. A supply of vegetables close at hand.
Many vegetables rapidly deteriorate in quality after being gathered.
Vegetables are at their best when fresh picked from one's own garden.
When a family produces its own vegetables, it usually eats more vegetables than if it had to depend upon those purchased with money from a store.
Eating more home-grown vegetables tends to improve the family's health.
Vegetables and fruits furnish a large part of the essential minerals, salts, and vitamins neces-.
Sary to the well-being of the human system. The health value of vegetables in the diet is of even greater importance than the economic values of home production.
Homegrown vegetables also release more of the commercial vegetable production for other uses, such as helping to provide food for the fighting forces. A good family food plan calls for two vegetables a day besides potatoes. One of these should be leafy or raw, such as lettuce, spinach, cabbage, or tomatoes. The other one should be a root vegetable, or corn, string beans, peas, or some other vegetable of this clasification. EGETABLES may be grown in | many corners and waste places that are now overrun by weeds.
Where weeds will grow, it is quite certain that vegetables will also grow if given reasonable care. In selecting the place for a garden, however, we must remember that vegetables will not grow in poor soil, such as that found in many city back yards. It too often consists of rocks, cinders, or basement soil.
Certain vegetables may be grown among flowers, in corners, or trailed on fences.
Before planting, study should be given to the kind of vegetables and the varieties best adapted to the planting area. A garden should not be planted where the sun does not shine upon the land for at least five hours each bright day.