[Vol29 | February 1942 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: LiteratureImportance of]
114  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY,  1942 
women  in  the  various  wards  are  urged  to  cooperate  with  their  ward  Rehef 
Society  presidents  in  the  preparation  of  as  accurate  and  complete  a  list  of 
nurses  as  is  possible.  It  is  requested  that  all  women  who  are  either  registered 
or  practical  nurses  report  their  names  to  their  ward  or  branch  Relief 
Society  presidents,  and  that  all  members  of  the  Society  assist  their  local 
Relief  Society  presidents  by  giving  them  the  names  of  women  living  in 
the  ward  or  branch  whom  they  know  to  be  either  practical  or  registered 
nurses. 
iie\K>   [Books 
^HE  Message  of  the  Twelve  Prophets  by  Sidney  B.  Sperry,  Ph.D.,  head 
of  the  department  of  Bible  and  Modern  Scriptures,  Brigham  Young 
University,  is  a  new  book  which  merits  careful  reading.  The  book  is  a 
scholarly  treatise  on  the  Minor  Prophets  of  the  Old  Testament.  According 
to  the  preface,  the  book  was  written  ''to  supply  students  with  suitable  reading 
materials  concerning  these  great  figures  of  ancient  Israel,  and  to  furnish  the 
average  intelligent  reader  with  an  interpretation  and  discussion  of  the 
Minor  Prophets  that  shall  lead  to  a  finer  appreciation  of  them,  their  works, 
and  their  importance  for  this  generation."  The  author  has  interpreted  these 
prophets  in  the  light  of  the  Gospel  as  revealed  in  this  dispensation. 
This  book  is  an  excellent  contribution  to  Church  literature  and  a 
good  reference  book  for  the  home  library.  It  may  be  purchased  at  the 
Deseret  Book  Company,  44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City, 
price  $2. 
OECOND  War  In  Heaven  is  the  title  of  a  new  book  by  Professor  N.  L. 
Nelson,  author  of  Preaching  and  Public  Speaking  and  The  Scientific 
Aspects  oi  Mormonism.  In  the  foreword  to  this  new  volume  Professor 
Nelson  states,  ''Bewilderment  and  fear  are  just  now  gripping  the  world.  .  .  . 
We  call  it  the  second  world  war.  In  reality  it  is  the  first  resumed  with 
increased  fury.  .  .  .  War  books  are  appearing  by  the  scores,  all  attempting 
to  set  forth  the  causes  behind  the  raging  conflict.  They  enlighten  us  only 
by  bits,  however,  for  the  simple  reason  that  their  perspectives  are  too  short. 
.  .  .  What  is  needed  to  clarify  our  bewilderment  .  .  .  is  one  Mighty  Per- 
spective touching  infinity  in  the  Past,  cutting  a  clear  swath  through  the 
jungles  of  the  Present,  and  then  lighting  up,  also  to  the  bounds  of  infinity, 
a  faith-appealing  way  through  the  mists  of  the  Future."  Such  a  per- 
spective Professor  Nelson  aims  to  contribute  in  his  new  book. 
The  book  may  be  purchased  from  Prof.  N.  L.  Nelson,  Downey,  Idaho, 
price  $1.50. 
A  SECOND  edition  of  Autumn  Leaves,  a  book  of  poems  by  Winnifred 
Morris  Tibbs,  is  now  off  the  press.  Thirty-five  new  poems  appear  in 
this  new  edition,  and  all  poems  included  in  the  book  have  been  written 
since  the  eightieth  birthday  of  the  author.  The  poems  reveal  the  wide 
range  of  interests  of  the  author  as  well  as  her  wholesome  philosophy  of 
life.  This  book  may  be  purchased  from  Winnifred  M.  Tibbs,  1376  East 
Seventeenth  South,  Salt  Lake  City,  price  50  cents.

The  Merry-Go-Round 
Alice  Money  Bailev 
CHAPTER  ELEVEN 
THE  ensuing  week  was  a  night- 
mare of  confusion.  There 
were  endless  conferences  with 
Tory  Meade  and  Judge  Oldham. 
Finally,  a  hearing  was  set  for  Thurs- 
day—four days  off. 
''John/'  said  Alyn  one  morning, 
"you  remember  I  told  you  about 
calling  Rufus  Randolph  about  lo- 
cating another  house  for  us?  You 
have  the  day  off  today,  so  let's  go 
and  see  what  he  has  found." 
'Tt's  a  deal/'  said  John,  and  they 
were  off. 
''Well,  John  and  Alyn,"  said  Ru- 
fus, greeting  them  heartily,  "what's 
this  I  hear  about  you  adopting  a 
baby?  Josephine  was  telling  me  that 
some  child-placing  agency  called  her 
for  references.  She  gave  you  a  good 
send-off,  you  can  bet." 
"Yes,"  said  John,  "it's  true.  We're 
going  to  adopt  a  baby,  and  we'll 
need  a  home." 
"Well,"  said  Rufus,  "kids  are 
great!  Where  have  you  people  been 
keeping  yourselves?  Josephine  has 
tried  to  call  you,  but  no  one  ever 
answers  the  telephone." 
"I've  been  working,"  said  Alyn 
quickly. 
"Working!  Who?  You?  Where?" 
"In  a  hat  shop— selling."  Alyn 
was  surprised  at  herself  making  this 
admission,  surprised  that  she  didn't 
care  in  the  least  if  Rufus  knew,  even 
though  he  would  impart  the  news 
to  Josephine,  who  would  quickly 
pass  it  on  to  the  crowd.  John  caught 
her  eye  and  winked— a  little  signal 
of  applause. 
The  house  Rufus  had  selected  for 
them  was  in  a  good  neighborhod, 
a  residential  district,  but  Alyn's 
heart  sank  when  she  looked  at  the 
grounds— no  lawns,  no  shrubs,  just 
a  long  lot  with  a  house  in  the  middle 
of  it  and  a  single  tree. 
"That  house  has  good  lines,"  Ru- 
fus pointed  out.  "Alyn  said  you 
wanted  a  big  yard.  This  place  has 
been  owned  by  a  carpenter,  a 
plumber,  and  a  stonemason,  in 
turns." 
That  accounted  for  the  good  lines 
and  the  rock  wall  that  surrounded 
the  place.  Alyn  hoped  the  plumb- 
ing was  as  good. 
"Too  bad  a  painter  didn't  get  hold 
of  it  too,"  said  Alyn.  Then  grudg- 
ingly she  added,  "I've  always  wanted 
a  place  with  a  rock  wall,  but  of 
course  we  can't  take  this  one.  It 
looks  terrible.  What  do  you  think 
of  it,  John?" 
John's  eyes  were  shining.  "This 
could  be  made  into  the  prettiest 
place  on  the  block,"  he  said.  "A 
pond  and  a  rock  garden  could  be 
built  there;  a  lawn  could  be  planted, 
and  shrubs  banked  against  the  rock 
wall.  I've  always  wanted  a  place 
like  this  to  putter  around.  ..." 
"Say,  that's  right.  You  did  go  in 
for  landscaping  or  something,  didn't 
you,  John?"  remarked  Rufus. 
"You  want  it,  John?"  asked  Alyn, 
dismayed. 
"Well,  I  can't  say  yet.  Let's  have 
a  look  at  the  inside." 
"It's  a  peach  inside!"  said  Rufus, 
and  he  was  right. 
Page  115

116  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY,  1942 
The  house  was  well  planned.  Alyn  the  men  who  laid  the  rugs.    When 
could  visualize  her  furniture  in  it.  the  van  brought  their  furniture,  all 
With    little    added    expense    they  that  was  left  to  do  was  to  place  it 
could  furnish  the  place  completely  and  hang  the  draperies. 
— all  except  the  nursery.  ''The  outside  can  wait/'  said  John, 
''John/'  said  Alyn,  when  Rufus  surveying  the  results.  'A  little  en- 
told  them  the  window  and  floor  chanted  forest  in  that  corner  of  the 
measurements,  "our  rugs  and  drap-  back  yard,  with  tiny  trails  where  he 
eries  will  fit!  See  this  lovely,  big  can  play  Robinhood  and  Indian. ..." 
bedroom;  and  the  room  adjoining  "The  doting  father,"  laughed 
it  will  be  just  right  for  Richard."  Alyn.    "John,  this  looks  like  heaven. 
Swift  visions  of  a  little  boy  play-  I  really  like  to  clean  and  scour  and 
ing  with  blocks  on  the  floor,  sailing  scrub.    I  didn't  think  I  would  ever 
boats  on  the  pond,  came  to  mind;  enjoy  it." 
she    pictured    a    little,    dark    head  "Well,  let's  have  a  hot  bath  and 
among  the  flowers.  pile  into  bed,"  said  John.    "I  want 
"O  John,"  she    breathed,    "let's  you  rested  and  beautiful  for  court 
take  it."  tomorrow." 
"Would  you  still  want  it  even  "John,  I'm  afraid,"  said  Alyn.  "I 
though  we  don't  get . .  .  ?"  can't  face.  ..." 
"Even  though  we  don't  get  Rich-  "Come  on,"  said  John,  tipping 
ard,"  said  Alyn,  but  despair  gripped  her  chin  up  with  a  finger.  "Steady 
her  heart.  "John,  if  we  moved  in  now!  We've  done  our  very  best;  and 
before  Thursday,"  she  appealed,  we'll  keep,  on  trying,  but  we  mustn't 
"we  can  tell  them  that  our  rent  is  be  afraid.  I  like  to  think  that  some- 
less."  where  Judith—and  Theo,  too,  are 
"Why  don't  you  buy  the  place?"  pulling  for  us,  and  for  their  baby, 
asked  Rufus.  "We  can  arrange  with  We  mustn't  give  up  now,  for  her 
the  bank  for  a  loan.    I've  discussed  sake  or  for  the  sake  of  little  Richard, 
such    a    proposition    with    the    ap-  fear  will  lick  us  from  the  start." 
praisers.     The  payments  would  be  Alyn  knew  John  was  right  and 
about  thirty-seven  dollars  per  month,  forced  a  smile  to  her  lips, 
including  insurance."    He  sounded 
so  offhand.  HPHE  next  morning,  with  belief  in 
John   and   Alyn   looked   at  each  their  hearts  and  heads  held  high, 
other,   and  a   glance   of  agreement  she  and  John  appeared    in    court, 
passed  between  them.  Alyn  wore  the  blue  dress  with  the 
"We'll    do    it,"    said  John,    and  white  collar  and  the  deep  pockets. 
Alyn  caught  her  breath.  "...  because  I  wore  it  when  I 
"And  that,"  she  laughed  later,  "is  held  him,"  she  told  John.  "I  thought 
how  one  becomes  a  homeowner."  I  could  never  bear  to  put  it  on  again. 
Moving  was   much   harder   than  but  it  brings  me  nearer  to  him— 
Alyn  had  anticipated.  She  scrubbed  and  to  Judith." 
hard   all    day,    and    she   and    John  The  court  procedure  was  much 
worked  far  into  the  night,  painting  less  formal  than  Alyn  had  expected, 
woodwork,       polishing       windows,  people  from  the  agency  were  there, 
cleaning  after  the  paper  hangers  and  as  were  Tory  Meade  and  Judge  Old-