[Vol29 | February 1942 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: InheritanceMabel Harmer]
MABEL  HARMER 
inheritance 
Mabel  HaimeT 
Second  Prize 
MARGERY  stood  before  the 
dresser  attempting  to  see  all 
of  her  floor-length  dress  in 
the  mirror.  She  tilted  it  forward 
while  she  looked  at  the  lower  part 
of  the  skirt  and  then  straightened 
it  again  while  she  surveyed  the  upper 
part,  turning  and  swirling  about  to 
view  every  angle. 
"It's  just  precious,  mother/'  she 
Page  90 
said  at  length,  with  a  bright  smile  of 
approval.  You've  done  a  grand  job 
on  it— you  clever  lady." 
'1  wish  you  could  have  a  new 
one,"  sighed  Lois,  making  no  re- 
sponse to  her  daughter's  compli- 
ment. "I  hate  having  you  go  around 
in  made-over  clothes  and.  .  .  ." 
"Oh,  but  such  pretty  made- 
overs,"  interrupted    Margery    gaily.

PRIZE  WINNING  STORY  91 
''Not  a  soul  in  the  world  knows  it  thing.     Apparently   twelve-year-old 
but  you  and  I."  Ronnie  had  taken  the  matter  very 
'Terhaps,"    Lois    grudgingly    ad-  lightly  and  simply  slipped  into  the 
mitted.    "Who  is  taking  you  to  the  habit  of  spending  his  evenings  at 
dance?"  his  friends'    homes  instead  of  his 
"Jerry  Milburn,  and  he's  simply  own,  but  Margery  and  Tom  seemed 
wonderful."      Margery    pirouetted  to  think  that  she  was  taking  it  all 
around  making  the  full  skirt  stand  too  seriously, 
out  like  an  inverted  hollyhock.  "He's  "Just  wait  until    we    are    ahead 
dark,  tall,  and  not  exactly  handsome,  again  and  can  have  things  nice,"  she 
but  he  dances  divinely,  has  a  sense  would  say  whenever  either  of  them 
of  humor  like  Bob  Hope's  and  a  suggested  having  friends  in  for  an 
biege  roadster  that  would  bring  a  evening.     "First  impressions  are  so 
lump  to  your  throat."  lasting,  you  know,  and  after  all,  this 
"Is  it  the  Milburn   family  that  isn't  our  proper  background." 
owns  the  automobile  agency?"  asked  She  sat  down  to  do  a  last  bit  of 
Lois.  stitching  on  the  dress  and  worked 
"None  other,"  Margery  answered,  until  she  had  to  hurry  to  get  dinner 
slipping   the   billowing   rose    dress  on  in  time.     She  was  still  rushing 
over  her  dark  curls.     "Am   I  the  from  stove  to  table  when  Tom  came 
bright  little  girl  to  pluck  him  right  home  from  work, 
from  the  grasping  hands  of  the  whole  Flinging  his  hat  down  he  caught 
Junior  class?"  her  around  the  waist  as  she  was  rush- 
"He'll  be  calling  for  you  here,  I  ing  past  and  said,  "Hey  there,  lady, 
suppose?"  asked  Lois,  more  in  the  whither  so   fast?     Don't  I  rate  a 
tone  of  stating  an  unwelcome  fact  welcoming  kiss  after  a  hard  day's 
than  asking  a  question.  toil?" 
"Why  surely.  You  wouldn't  want  "Of  course,"  she  said,  kissing  him 
me  to  meet  him  anywhere  else?"  hastily.    "I  was  trying  to  make  over 
"Of  course  not,  darling.    Only  I  a  dress  for  Margery  to  wear  to  the 
was  just  thinking.  ..."  dance  Friday  night,   and   I'm  late 
Margery  knew  without  being  told  with  dinner." 
what  her  mother  was  thinking.  Ever  For  a  moment  she  was  sorry  that 
since  they  had  lost  their  home  and  she    had    emphasized    the    words 
business  in  Auburn  and  had  moved  "make  over"  but  quickly    decided 
to  Springfield,  Lois  Rankin  had  been  that  she  needn't  have  worried  for 
a  changed  woman.       The    rented  Tom  merely  went  over  to    where 
house  with  its  shabby  furniture  had  Margery  was  studying  and  pinching 
hurt  her  until  she  would  scarcely  her  cheek  playfully  said,  "It's  a  good 
allow  even  a  bill  collector  to  step  thing  she's  so  pretty  when  she  has 
a  foot  into  the  house.     She  had  to  wear  old  clothes." 
scrupulously    avoided    making    any  Margery  grinned  up  at  him  ap- 
social   contacts  because  she   didn't  preciatively  and  went  back  to  her 
want  to  have  to  entertain  in  these  work,  but  the  frown  on  Lois'  face