[Vol29 | February 1942 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Secretary-Treasurer]

—FEBRUARY, 1942 :: " Notes
FROM THE FIELD
Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer Wherever the name does not readily indicate the geographical location of the stake or mission, the location of its headquarters is designated in parentheses.
Regulations governing the submittal of material for 'Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for April, 1940, page 275. ANNIVERSARY PROGRAMS Smithfield Stake (Smithfield, Utah) (COMMEMORATING the ninety-ninth anniversary of Relief Society on March 17, 1941, the Smithfield Third Ward, of which Elvina J.
Ranzenberger is president, presented a program honoring the general presidents of Relief Society and the ward presidents of Relief Society in Smithfield from the time of the first organization there.
This program was typical of many which will doubtless be presented in other wards on March 17, 1942, in com- - memoration of the one hundredth anniversary.
Readers briefly told the history and development of the Relief Society. As comments were made on the life and accomplishments of each of the general presidents of Relief Society, a woman representing each of these presidents appeared and was seated on the rostrum.
Then came the account of the organization of the first Relief Society in Smithfield on May 7, 1868, and an account of the Relief Society work carried forward in Smithfield from then until the present time. As in the case of the general presidents, each of the Smithfield Relief Society presidents AND CENTENNIAL PLANS was represented by a woman who appeared on the rostrum as her appointment as president was announced. At the close of the program all members of the stake board including Mrs. Annie M. Farr, stake Relief Society president, were asked to take places reserved for them on the stand. The readings were interspersed with appropriate songs by the chorus of Relief Society Singing Mothers. The background for this presentation was the ward membership arch against a white drape. At the close of the entertainment, each person present was given a card showing a picture of the member- ~ ship arch.
This arch is seven feet high and three feet wide, with the lowest step representative of the or-- ganization of Relief Society in 1842, the second step the first organization in Smithfield in 1868, and the third step the organization of Smithfield Third Ward in 1926.
Inasmuch as Smithfield is known as the rose city, the ward appropriately decorated the arch with rosebuds—one for every member who had ever belonged to the Third Ward Relief Society. Page 12) North Weber Stake Relief Society Board in gowns of one hundred years ago. The president, Nellie W. Neal, is seated, center, with her counselors, North Weber Stake (Ogden, Utah) HE North Weber Stake Relief Society, of which Nellie W.
Neal is president, has sent the following report of ways in which interest and publicity are being obtained with respect to the coming centennial: "Enthusiastic about the Relief Society centennial, North Weber stake board members are united in an effort to make it a success.
Cooperation of all the stake leaders was cemented one evening early in the 1941-42 season when the Relief Society board appeared at the regular board meeting, all wearing costumes of one hundred years ago.
This little surprise act worked far better than was expected. President Wilmer Maw of the stake presidency, who was directing the opening exercises, arose and pretended to read a letter from the Relief Society board offering excuses for their strange garb. He asked the group what forfeit they would like to mete out to the culprits.
Someone tequested that they march, another suggested that an explanation of their misdemeanor and a plea be entered before sentence be imposed.
Still another asked for the Relief Society theme song.
Altogether a lovely time was had, and now everyone seems to be boosting for Relief Society. President Thomas M.
Irvine is helping out too. "The board arranges to diffuse a breath of atmosphere at every meeting with an old song, reminiscences of pioneer life, the display of a century-old shawl, tidy, or vase, or an 

 —FEBRUARY, 1942 NOTES FROM THE FIELD old-fashioned bouquet.
Newspapermen are cooperating nicely, and the board plans to soon ask the merchants for a few window displays. "The accompanying photograph was taken at a social given in Pioneer Relic Hall (formerly Relief Society Hall) which is unique in that it was the first hall built especially for Relief Society work. Weber Stake Relief Society was organized by Brigham Young, and when this stake was later divided the hall was given to the Ogden Chapter of the -Daughters of Utah Pioneers to be used as a relic hall. The present officers of this organization were most gracious in lending us the hall for our party. President Dora Brown Peterson attended our party and gave a most interesting story of the hall and some of its relics. Her counselor, Gladys Simpson, sang some lovely old-time ballads. Her sweet personality and her old-fashioned gown 123 won the audience completely. The hostesses (North Weber Stake Relief Society board members) announced the meeting only as a tour through the relic hall and surprised their 300 guests with the program and with the refreshments of molasses candy, sugar cookies, and popcorn served from heirloom trays and bowls, and also by appearing in the costumes as pictured. 'The social followed the regular union meeting in October." Long Beach Stake (Long Beach, California ) PEARL C. MINER, stake president, submitted the accompanying picture of the Compton Ward Relief Society with Ruth Cooper as president.
This picture was taken on the occasion of the luncheon and program commemorating the ninetyninth anniversary of Relief Society.
Places were marked for seventy-seven COMPTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, LONG BEACH STAKE (Commemorating ninety-ninth anniversary of Relief Society.) 124 "  MOUNT OGDEN STAKE (Refreshment alcove decorated to represent pioneer home) guests.
Past presidents of the organization were honored and presented with corsages.
During the preceding two years this Society nearly doubled its membership. Mount Ogden Stake (Ogden, Utah) THE following account of a precentennial party was submitted by Maurine C. Nielsen, literature leader of Mount Ogden Stake, with the thought that some of the ideas might be helpful to Relief Societies planning centennial celebrations: "On Tuesday, June 3, 1941, the Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society Board held an unusual and charming old-fashioned reception for all Relief Society women of the stake. The outstanding feature of the reception was a display of articles made by the various wards on workand-business days for the Church welfare program, consisting of madeover clothing, layettes, woven rugs, and quilts. The display, partially shown in the accompanying picture, showed the great amount of work that had been accomplished. "A short program was given at which music was furnished by the Relief Society Singing Mothers,. Who wore old-fashioned costumes and sang old-fashioned songs. Fol-.
Lowing the music, biographies of outstanding Relief Society women were given by members dressed to impersonate them. 'The first biography given was that of Jane S. Richards, first president of Weber Stake Relief Society, which was or- - ganized under President Brigham — Young as the first stake so designated in the Church. Then. Came. The story of Almira C. Rich, first president of the Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society, and of Ethel | B.. Andrew, second president of Mount Ogden Stake and now a NOTES FROM THE FIELD member of the General Board of Relief Society, both of whom were present. "President Ella P.
Farr then presented the work done by the women of the stake, and it was accepted by A. Walter Stevenson of the Mount Ogden Stake presidency, for the Church welfare program. "Old-fashioned refreshments were served in an alcove decorated to represent a home of pioneer days, as shown in the accompanying picture. The table, covered with a red checkered cloth, was centered with a bouquet of old-fashioned flowers.
Quaint dishes, from cupboards of long ago, were used in the serving.
About the room were rag carpets, chintz curtains, spinning wheels, old churns, cradles, pictures, albums, clocks, and many other articles reminiscent of pioneer homes. The refreshments consisted of lemonade, ginger snaps, molasses cookies, old-fashioned candy, and popcorn." 125
Box Elder Stake (Brigham City, Utah) THE following report was submitted by Renie H. Littlewood, stake Relief Society secretary: "During the annual Peach Days celebration held at Brigham City, September 5 and 6, 1941, the Box Elder Stake Relief Society, of which Grace V.
Price is president, again sponsored a flower show and handicraft exhibit.
Inasmuch as this is Relief Society centennial year, special emphasis was placed on pioneer and antique flower and handicraft displays, and these proved to be of unusual interest. It was interesting to note from the visitors' book, which contained 1,900 signatures even though everyone who visited the display did not sign, that the exhibit was attended by visitors from nineteen states, extending as far east as Florida, and that two visitors gave a foreign country as their address. MOUNT OGDEN STAKE (Exhibit of work done for the Church welfare program) Stina De Serra Bcd ® ®: x 2 i: x me mt SAI. The General Board was represented by Alice B. Castleton, who reported that the pioneer flower and handicraft exhibits were most interesting from the standpoint of our coming centennial celebration in 1942." Deseret Stake (Delta, Utah); AS early as May 1, 1941, the Deseret Stake Relief Society, of which Mrs. Vera S.
Hilton is president, reported that plans were already well under way for its centennial celebration in March. The secretary, Anna Stuki, reported as follows: "A capable woman has been chosen in each ward to work with the stake committee in putting over the centennial programs in the various wards and also in the stake.
These ward representatives had charge of the annual day programs in their wards in 1941, when the theme of the programs was 'Looking Forward to '42.' Clever invitations, posters, and table decorations were used to create a feeling of anticipation for the centennial celebration. ' _ "Much interest has also been aroused among the sisters by contests, conducted this year by the stake board, in poetry, short story, song, and painting, with the stipula- — tion that the subject matter must be of Relief Society or pioneer nature. We not only plan on publishing as many of the contributions as possible, but we also hope to obtain some fine material that may be used in our centennial programs." Weiser Stake (Weiser, Idaho) THE Weiser Stake Relief Society » has published an attractive booklet of poems by women of the stake as a feature of the Relief Society centennial.
This little volume is bound in a blue cover paper with the title "Friendly Verse," and the occasion "Relief Society Centennial 1842-1942," printed in gold. The book contains forty-eight poems by women of the stake, including the six poems awarded prizes in a stake contest. The frontispiece comprises pictures of the Weiser Stake Relief Society presidency, and is embellished by the Relief Society centennial seal in blue and gold. Both Edith H. Brown, Relief Society president of Weiser Stake, and her first counselor, Erma B. Chadwick, are represented by poems in the collection. Swiss Mission LETTER dated November 2, 1941, from R. Simond, Swiss district president, includes the following statement: "We hope, if political conditions will permit, to organize something for the 17 of March, 1942, for the hundredth year of the foundation of the Relief Society." British Mission LETTER dated December 18, 1941, from Marie W. Anastasiou, president of the British Mission Relief Society, contains the following excerpts relating to plans for observance of the Relief Society centennial: "With reference to planting centennial trees, we feel sure that this will be possible in each case where we have our own Church property and grounds to use for this purpose. It has been suggested that we plant English Oak trees, and we hope to obtain suitable markers. "We may be able to hold most of the centennial meetings on March 17, but in some cases it will be neces- 

 —FEBRUARY, 1942 NOTES FROM THE FIELD © sary to postpone the celebrations until Saturday and Sunday, March 21 and 22, because most of the brethren and sisters are engaged in war work, and will not be able to take the time off. However, we feel sure that our celebrations will be inspirational and commemorative." Australian Mission VIoLeT COOK, mission Magazine representative, under the direction of June C. Orme, president, in a letter reporting an excellent record in Magazine subscriptions for 1941, commented: "I do hope the sisters living in faraway missions will get some little memento of the centenary. We feel quite lonely when we think of the wonderful time you will be having over there, such as the glorious singing and music, and listening to the sev- 127 eral speakers. I can only say God bless you all, and may you have such a feast of the Lord's work that we faraway sisters will enjoy the same feast through the pages of our Relief Society Magazine." Bureau of Information (Palmyra, New York) LDER JOHN D. GILES, in charge of the Church Bureau of Information at the Hill Cumorah, Palmyra, New York, plans to plant a Relief Society centennial tree—a native maple—at Hill Cumorah, in cooperation with the local Relief Society there. The General Board commends Elder Giles for his interest in joining with Relief Societies throughout the Church in planting Relief Society centennial trees on Church property during 1942.