[Vol29 | February 1942 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Ann Parkinson A]

Ann Parkinson Nibley Belle S. Spafford Relief Society General Board Member ANN PARKINSON NIBLEY N introducing to the women of the Church Ann Parkinson Nibley, recently-appointed General Board member, I would like to have them see her as those of us who know her intimately see her — a woman of refinement, dignity, reserve, culture and charm, a woman's woman; yet, withal, a woman endowed with unusual executive ability and leadership strength. Mrs.
Nibley possesses the ability to see needs clearly, to win followers to her cause, to hold these followers through an understanding and an appreciation of them and through her ability to further her cause along well-planned lines. Page 87
These characteristics and strengths were not won in a day by Ann Nibley; they are the result of a rich heritage, years of training, and a lifetime of living according to high standards. Ann Parkinson Nibley was born in Franklin, Idaho, January 30, 1886, the second in a family of eight children. Her father, George Chandler Parkinson, was one of the early settlers of Idaho, moving with his parents to Franklin, in 1860. For thirty years, Brother Parkinson served as a member of the Oneida Stake Presidency, acting as president twenty-three years of that time. In 1897 he had the honor of becoming the first president of the Northwestern States Mission. He was an outstanding educator, business man and civic leader, thus making a distinct contribution to the growth of the state of Idaho. Sister Nibley's mother, Lucy Doney Parkinson, was a woman of rare charm and refinement. She was a devoted wife and mother, as well as a wise counselor to her husband. As a homemaker she set an enviable example to be followed by all.
Those who know Sister Nibley see reflected in her these characteristics. For many years Sister Parkinson was president of the Oneida Stake Primary Association, and for twelve years she was in the presidency of the Oneida Stake Relief Society, distinguishing herself for her outstanding welfare work. The Parkinson home was headquarters for the General Authorities and other Church leaders on their visits to Oneida Stake. The welcome and generous hospitality thus provided by Brother and Sister Parkinson was a service of love and devotion to their religion which will ever be remembered by those whose Church activities called them to this section of the country. The Parkinson children were given liberal educational opportunities. Ann is a graduate of the Brigham Young University. She has also been a student at Columbia University and at the University of Chicago; this latter university she attended after her marriage, September 18, 1908, to Preston Nibley, son of the late Ellen Ricks and Charles W. Nibley, former Presiding Bishop of the Church. Sister Nibley is a talented musivtian, having been trained by such teachers as Anthony C. Lund, Arthur Shepherd, Spencer Clawson, and Eugene Heffley, noted piano teacher of New York.
While a student of Eugene Heffley, she had the rare experience of appearing in a piano recital in Carnegie Hall under his direction.; TAUGHT from her youth to serve the Church, Sister Nibley has accepted calls with a spirit of humility and willingness. As a young woman she served as Oneida Stake Sunday School organist, and while attending Columbia University, New York, she was branch organist.
When the first Relief Society was organized in University Ward, Salt Lake City, Sister Nibley was called to serve as counselor to Emma Teudt.
While the ward chapel was in the course of construction, the beautiful Nibley home was generously offered and was frequently used as a meeting place for the Society. One of Sister Nibley's most outstanding services to the Church was given in the Northwestern States Mission, where with Brother Nibley she presided over the mission which 

 —FEBRUARY, 1942 ANN PARKINSON NIBLEY her father had established in 1897. Brother Nibley entered the mission as its president January 20, 1937. Sister Nibley joined him April 17 of the same year.
During the three years and nine months of their presidency, their leadership and organizing ability were evidenced, and the mission made rapid progress: The Seattle and Portland Stakes were created; 65 new Sunday Schools, 51 new Primaries, 43 new Relief Socities, and a number of new Mutual Improvement Associations were otganized; several districts were organized with complete auxiliary boards. In July, 1938, President and Sister Nibley journeyed to Alaska, where they were privileged to organize at Fairbanks the first branch of the Church and the first Relief Society _in that far northern territory.
During their presidency, there were 2,000 baptisms in the mission, and 1,907 inactive members were restored to the active rolls of the 'Church. A new mission home was also acquired, and under Sister Nibley's artistic supervision it was reconditioned and made into a beautiful residence. As president of the Relief Society of the mission, Sister Nibley, with her characteristic precision and attention to detail, informed herself on, all rules, recommendations and policies of the Society. She acquainted the women with these, and conducted the work in harmony with them. As a result, progress was made in all phases of Relief Society work. In recounting her services in the mission, one would be remiss not 89 to mention her interest in the missionaries and the personal attention she gave to each of them. She was not only concerned about their spiritual welfare, but she gave constant attention to their physical wellbeing, putting forth great effort to keep them happy and contented. The.
Mission home was indeed a home to every missionary, and both President and Sister Nibley were greatly loved by the missionaries and also by the Saints.
Just as Sister Nibley successfully presided over the mission home, so has she successfully presided over her own home. She has been a companionable wife, a devoted mother, a meticulous housekeeper, an ideal homemaker. 'The Nibley's are the parents of four children— Eleanor Ann (now Mrs. E, S. Budge, Jr.), Lucy Deanne (now Mrs. William Murdock, Jr.), Preston Parkinson Nibley, now attending Stanford University, and Nancy Annette. Ann Nibley's appointment as a member of the Relief Society General Board, December 17, 1941, brings to this organization a woman of experience and ability, a woman who is loved and admired wherever known for her graciousness, her modesty, her understanding and thoughtfulness, her deep sense of appreciation for the strengths of others, and for her readiness to recognize accomplishment and _ give credit. She approaches her new position with a sincere and becoming humility, accepting the arduous duties and responsibilities as a_privilege and a blessing. Te PrizeWinning Story Relief Society Centennial Short Story Contest MABEL HARMER OP tants Mabel Harmer Second Prize ARGERY stood before the dresser attempting to see all of her floor-length dress in the mirror, She tilted it forward while she looked at the lower part of the skirt and then straightened it again while she surveyed the upper part, turning and swirling about to view every angle. "It's just precious, mother," she Page 90 said at length, with a bright smile of approval. You've done a grand job on it—you clever lady." "I wish you could have a new one," sighed Lois, making no response to her daughter's compliment. "I hate having you go around in made-over clothes and...." "Oh, but such pretty madeovers," interrupted Margery gaily. PRIZE WINNING STORY © "Not a soul in the world knows it but you and I." "Perhaps," Lois grudgingly admitted. "Who is taking you to the dance?" "Jerry Milburn, and he's simply wonderful."
Margery pirouetted around making the full skirt stand out like an inverted hollyhock. "He's dark, tall, and not exactly handsome, but he dances divinely, has a sense of humor like Bob Hope's and a biege roadster that would bring a lump to your throat." "Is it the Milburn family that owns the automobile agency?" asked Lois. "None other," Margery answered, slipping the billowing rose dress over her dark curls. "Am I the bright little girl to pluck him right from the grasping hands of the whole Junior class?" "He'll be calling for you here, I suppose?" asked Lois, more in the tone of stating an unwelcome fact than asking a question. "Why surely. You wouldn't want me to meet him anywhere else?" "Of course not, darling. Only I was just thinking...."
Margery knew without being told what her mother was thinking.
Ever since they had lost their home and business in Auburn and had moved to Springfield, Lois Rankin had been a changed woman. The rented house with its shabby furniture had hurt her until she would scarcely allow even a bill collector to step a foot into the house. She had scrupulously avoided making any social contacts because she didn't want to have to entertain in these shabby surroundings, and to the best of her ability she had attempted to have her children do the same 91 thing.
Apparently twelve-year-old Ronnie had taken the matter very lightly and simply slipped into the habit of spending his evenings at his friends' homes instead of his own, but Margery and Tom seemed to think that she was taking it all too seriously. "Just wait until we are ahead again and can have things nice," she would say whenever either of them suggested having friends in for an evening. "First impressions are so lasting, you know, and after all, this isn't our proper background." She sat down to do a last bit of stitching on the dress and worked until she had to hurry to get dinner on in time. She was still rushing from stove to table when Tom came home from work.
Flinging his hat down he caught her around the waist as she was rushing past and said, "Hey there, lady, whither so fast? Don't I rate a welcoming kiss after a hard day's toil?" "Of course," she said, kissing him hastily. "I was trying to make over a dress for Margery to wear to the dance Friday night, and I'm late with dinner." For a moment she was sorry that she had emphasized the words "make over" but quickly decided that she needn't have worried for Tom merely went over to where Margery was studying and pinching her cheek playfully said, "It's a good thing she's so pretty when she has to wear old clothes."
Margery grinned up at him appreciatively and went back to her work, but the frown on Lois' face deepened. That's the worst of Tom, she thought. He thinks that this poverty is just' all in the ordinary 92;  course of human events. I just can't make him see that the children's lives are being ruined. She had to admit, however, that Tom. Was really doing all he could to rebuild their fortunes, and that the crash had not been his fault; but it annoyed her that he took the situation so cheerfully when the lack of nice clothes and furniture was a constant nightmare to her.
They sat down to dinner, Ronnie sliding in at the last minute and mumbling an excuse to leave again while his mouth was still full of pie. "Where's he off to again tonight?" asked Tom, as Ronnie disappeared through the front door in answer to a prolonged whistle outside... "He said something about a Scout meeting," Lois answered vaguely. "Just the patrol, I believe." "But why does he always have to be running off?" asked Tom impatiently. "It seems like I never see him, except at meal time. Why doesn't he bring his friends here?" "He just doesn't want to, I guess," Lois answered briefly. She didn't quite like to admit that she had openly discouraged Ronnie from bringing his friends to the house.
Later on, she told herself, I'll see that he has his friends here. He's 'too young to really care much about it now, anyway. Tom interrupted her thoughts by saying, "How about going down town to a show? You need a change, and it's been a long time since we stepped out together." A dollar for a show, thought Lois swiftly. No, they just couldn't afford it. A dollar would go a long way toward buying some new living room curtains.
Aloud she said, "I'm afraid not tonight, dear. I need to work some more on Margery's dress." "Well, then, I think [ll go on down alone, if you don't mind," he said, "but I think that you ought to go too. All work and no play, you know, makes Jill a serious girl." LO! S washed up the dishes and then sat stitching on the frock while Margery went back to her lessons.
After a while the girl broke the silence by saying, "Oh, I forgot to tell you, mother, I've been invited to join the Sphinx Club." "That's nice," Lois answered. "What kind of a club is it?", "Oh, very informal. It's the crowd that Jerry goes around with, and they just go places together and have fun fests.
Last week they had a waffle supper at Markham's, and Saturday night we're going down to Maizie Walter's and play table tennis in her rumpus room.
Lois felt a chill creeping over her. Maizie's rumpus room and a waffle supper at the Markham's! And what would they do when it was Margery's turn to entertain? She would practically die of embarrassment to have the young crowd come here after being entertained in the fine homes of the city. She gathered up her courage and said in a pleading voice, "Would it matter a lot, darling, if you didn't join this club? A year from now things will be better for us, and we will have a nice home again, but I just can't bear to invite people to this shabby place." Margery's face flushed, and distress filled her blue eyes. "Yes, it would, mother," she said in a tight voice, "it would matter a lot. I PRIZE WINNING STORY can't expect' to go out with Jerry if I'm not one of his crowd, and I want to. Go with him very much; but if you insist, I'll drop the club. I think you set too much store by fine furniture, though. I'll bet the crowd could have as much fun here as anywhere." She closed her book and went to bed, rushing past her mother to hide the tears that filled her eyes.
Half an hour later Ronnie came in, Slamming the front door and bounding up the steps, his entrance having the effect of a small earthquake on the quiet house. "Hush, dear,' Lois cautioned, "and wipe the mud off your shoes., Where in the world have you been? You didn't pick up all that at a Scout meeting did you?" "No, we didn't have patrol. I met Vince Jones, and he took me out to the airport on his bike. We had a swell time. We saw three planes come in." He threw his cap in the general direction of the sofa, and when it missed and hit the floor he was content to let it stay there. "If there was no meeting you should have come back home. And who is this Vince Jones? I don't remember meeting him.' "Oh, he's just a boy around town that I met. He's a good sport. You'll see him sometime, maybe."
With this comforting assurance Ronnie turned and went upstairs. He's changing so much, thought Lois, and now he's running around with boys that I don't know anything about. Maybe I should have let him bring that Knowlton boy across the street over when he wanted to.
Perhaps it's just that he's growing up, she comforted herself. Maybe I'd better speak to Tom 93 about it. By the time Tom came in, however, it was nearly eleven, and she was too tired to do anything more than go to bed. "Sorry to be so late," 'Tom apologized. "I met one of the fellows from the office, and we bowled for a couple of hours. That's a great sport, you know; we ought to go in for something like that." Tom's old social urge coming to the fore again, she thought sleepily. He had always liked to be with a crowd. She wondered what kind of people went to bowling alleys. She guessed it would be all right if he didn't get to spending too much time there. HE was paring apples the next day when she saw Sister Marshall and Sister Roberts, the Relief Society teachers, come up the walk. For once, she was genuinely glad to see someone come to her door, and she decided that possibly she was getting lonelier for acquaintances than she had realized. She greeted them cordially and offered them chairs in the living room, reflecting that if they visited every house on the block they probably saw one or two even worse homes than this one.
After delivering their message, Sister Roberts said, ""We are very anxious to have you join our group and come out to our meetings.
This is our centennial year, you know, and we are planning many interesting features. It's a wonderful thing to know, isn't it, that our organization has been active now for one hundred years?" "Yes," Lois answered. "I'd like to join you. I'm especially interested in the centennial celebration 

 —FEBRUARY, 1942 because it happens that my grandmother was a member of the first organization." "Why that's wonderful!" exclaimed Sister Marshall. "You are just the woman we are looking for to take a leading part in our pageant. We were so anxious to have a lineal descendant of one of the original members, if possible, and so far we didn't know of a single one in our ward.
Have you your grandmother's journal that you could read at one of our meetings?" "Yes, indeed," Lois replied. "I haven't read it for years, but I'll be glad to look it up." "Thank you, my dear. We will be very us," said Sister Marshall in parting. As soon as they had gone Lois went to the bedroom and began looking through her cedar chest for the journal. She had never really read it very carefully, and she decided that if she was to be a leading lady on the strength of being a granddaughter of a pioneer, it might be well to know something more about that pioneer. She searched for some entry about the first Relief Society meeting. Yes, here it was: "March 17, 1842—I attended a meeting today in the Nauvoo Lodge room.
There were eighteen women present, and also the Prophet Joseph Smith, John Taylor, and Willard Richards. At the Prophet's suggestion we are to organize into a relief society to assist in looking after the wants of the poor and to help in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community. Sister Emma Smith is to be our president. We are to donate flour, butter, calico, or anything we can spare happy to have you one of ° for the relief of the poor. I returned home to get supper for Ezra and the children. Our new home is all finished now, and we enjoy it very much.
There isn't a finer home in this part of the state—at least, none that is more comfortable. By hard labor and the blessings of God we have done well since coming to this beautiful city."
There were more entries along the same line: two more babies in the years following, and the purchase of another farm outside of the city; for her home a beautiful Grandfather's clock to stand in the hall and a full set of fine china purchased for the handsome cupboard that Ezra had made himself.
There was every evidence of a happy and prosperous family.; Then there were shadows and forebodings of trouble growing ever deeper until the reign of terror began that culminated in the death of the Prophet and his brother Hytum. "I feel that it is the beginning of the end," she had written, "and that none of us will be allowed to remain very long in the beautiful city which we have labored so hard to build." On the first of February, 1846, she had written: "The blow has fallen, and we must leave as soon as possible.
Where we are going we do not know, except that it is to be to the West where there are no men to hunt and persecute us.
Ezra is trying to sell our property, but everyone else is trying to sell his, and there is no one to buy. The mobsters will simply drive us out and then take everything.
Ezra is trying to build a wagon for us, and he has taken down the fence for lumber. "February 4—The word has come PRIZE WINNING STORY that we must leave at once if we want to escape with our lives. Our wagon is not finished and does not even have tires, so we can carry only a light load. It would break my heart to leave all my treasures if I did not carry greater ones with me— my religion and my children. "February 6—We have crossed the river and are camped on the Iowa side. The weather is below freezing, and we had to clear snow from the ground in order to make our beds.
Nine babies were born in camp the first night, in wagon boxes and in tents. So far all have survived, although it is a wonder that any of us survive with such scant protection from the terrible cold. Brigham Young is wonderful. He seems to be everywhere at once, organizing, cheering up the downcast, and distributing food to the needy." | Unmindful of time, Lois read on about the wretched journey through Iowa, of their fighting their way through rain, mud, and swollen streams. She read of their living week after week with never enough food to eat and with never a change of dry clothing.
Sickness was a constant visitor at the camps, and the trail from Illinois to the Missouri River was marked with graves. At length they reached a resting place on the banks of the Missouri River, and they prepared to settle down for the winter.
Under date of September 8 had been written, "Ezra has built us a log cabin, and we are quite comfortable. He has chinked the walls with mud and built a mud fireplace at one end.
There is only a dirt floor and there are no windows, but it will be better 95 than living in a dugout because those who do so will have to cook outdoors. We have filled our ticks with straw for beds and are using our wagon seats for tables. We have been very fortunate in trading with the Indians for buffalo robes which will help to keep us warm.
Ezra has gone down into Missouri and traded what furniture we brought along for food. We are very grateful to be alive and safe from our enemies. With God's blessing we shall get through this winter all right and find a new home in the Rockies next year." OIS closed the worn book with a sigh and placed it carefully back in its box.
Grandmother was wonderful, she thought. | What stuff those pioneers must have been made of in order to go through so much adversity and come out with a prayer of thanksgiving. Had none of that fighting spirit come down to her that she should fold up at the first struggle with poverty?