[Vol29 | February 1942 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Fiction | Title: In Retrospect?Chapter?President Amy Brown Lyman]
President Joseph Smith, Bishop N. K.
Whitney and brethren of the Twelve met with the sisters, and through the inspiration of the Spirit of God, imparted rich counsel and intelligence; instructing, not only in duties concerning the poor, but also in all the relations of life, as wives, mothers, daughters, sisters, and, as saints of the Most High, our duties to one another and our responsibilities as examples to the world, etc.... The first winter after the Society was organized was exceedingly cold and severe... And had it not been for the timely aid of the Female Relief Society (many) would have suffered much, and probably some would have perished. "About the last of July, 1842, when some of the officials of Missouri were taking measures to drag President Joseph Smith from Illinois by an illegal process, the Female Relief Society sent a petition to Thomas Carlin, Governor of Illinois, in behalf of Pres. Smith, claiming his protection as chief magistrate. The petition was signed by every member of the Society and presented by its president, Mrs. Emma Smith, accompanied by Mrs. Amanda Smith and Miss E. R. Snow....
Whatever the result, the Female Relief Society had made a noble effort, and it was compensated by knowing that the great, good man, Joseph Smith, appreciated it.... " —Eliza R. Snow (June 15, 1872) Speaking of the Relief Society in 1872: "In having been driven from a city, we have become a_ Territory—should have been a State—and here, the Female Relief Society, more amply developed than in Nauvoo, has extended its branches to every ward and settlement from Bear Lake in the North to Santa Clara in the South, and yet, as seen in prospective, it has but little more than emerged from its embryo state in comparison to its great future."—Eliza R. Snow (June 15, 1872) "We have a large class of Scandinavian sisters who devote some hours a week to the study of the English language, and are taught by Sister Julia Howe."—17th Ward, Salt Lake City, Relief Society Report (August 15, 1872, page 42) "Eliza R.
Snow said we should seek to increase our fund of knowledge and to polish the mind."—Female Relief Society Report of Brinton's Ward, Big Cottonwood (1872, page 66) Miss Snow said, "Woman fills an important sphere; her duties are most significant; and for this reason she should be educated."—Payson Relief Society Report (1872, page 75) "I would especially mention the time Page 99 100 of the Echo Canyon expedition; when among other things, we were called upon for lariats.
Some of our faithful mothers worked day and night, carding and spinning cattle's hair for that purpose; they made and brought in twenty-two lariats." —Spanish Fork Report (1873, page 170) "T still think... That Home, with the Latter-day Saints is the Place of the Highest Happiness, Attainable on Earth."— Correspondence of Miss Snow from Vienna, Austria (Volume II, 1873, page 14) "You might as well have been born in some other nation or dispensation, unless you can feel that you have a mission in Zion.... ) "Let your first business be to perform your duties at home. But inasmuch as you are wise stewards, you will find time for