[Vol29 | February 1942 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: "Lovest Thou Me More Than These?"]
"Lovest  Thou  Me  More 
Than  These?" 
O.  F.  Uisenhach 
Manager,  Los  Angeles  Regional  Storehouse 
IN  
the  great  art  museums  of  Eu-  the  right  side  of  the  ship  and  ye  shall 
rope,  photographs  are  available  find."  This  they  did,  and  brought 
of  the  famous  paintings  dis-  up  a  multitude  of  fishes.  Then  they 
played.  Before  me  at  this  writing  recognized  that  the  personage  was 
is  a  photograph  of  a  canvas  by  G.  the  Lord.  Then  other  disciples 
De  Grayer,  which  I  purchased  in  the  came  in  a  little  ship  dragging  a  net 
Brussels  Art  Museum,  in  Belgium,  laden  with  fishes.  When  they 
In  the  center  foreground  of  the  pic-  reached  the  land,  they  saw  a  fire  of 
ture  are  many  large  fish,  and  in  the  coals  there,  with  fish  laid  upon  it. 
rear  stand  six  fishermen.  In  the  left  They  saw  bread  also.  Then  Jesus 
foreground  stands  the  Apostle  Peter  told  them  to  bring  the  fish  they  had 
holding  a  large  fish  by  the  gills,  and  caught.  And  Peter  went  up  and  drew 
in  the  right  foreground  stands  the  the  fish  to  land.  The  unbroken  net 
resurrected  Christ  looking  into  contained  153  ''great  fishes." 
Peter's  face  and  pointing  toward  the  Then  Jesus  commanded  the  fish- 
fish  on  the  ground  before  them.  ermen  to  come  and  dine,  and  He 
Prior  to  the  occasion  pictured  in  served  them  the  bread  and  fishes, 
this  painting,  the   risen  Lord  had  After  the  Lord  had   served   the 
twice  appeared— once  to  the  women  disciples  he  turned  to  Peter  asking: 
at  the  tomb,  then  to  the  apostles  in  ''Simon  Peter,  son  of  Jonas,  lovest 
the  "upper  room."  thou  me  more  than  these?"    Being 
The  painting  represents  the  third  assured  of  Peter's  love,  He  contin- 
occasion  when  Jesus  showed  himself  ued:      "Feed    my   lambs."     Twice 
to  his  disciples  after  he  had  risen  again  He  asked  the  same  question, 
from  the  dead.    The  account  of  this  Each  time,  following  Peter's  reassur- 
appearance,  as  recorded  in  John  21:  ing  reply,  the  Master  said:     "Feed 
1-17,   tells   us  that  on   the  sea  of  my  sheep." 
Tiberias  a  fishing  party  consisting  of  The  inference  is  frequently  made 
Peter,  Thomas,  Nathaniel,  James,  that  this  commission  referred  only 
John  and  two  other  unidentified  to  spiritual  food,  but  that  it  may 
disciples— a  group  of  seven— had  have  had  a  wider  meaning  is  evi- 
fished  all  night  without  success,  denced  by  the  fact  that  the  apostles. 
When  the  morning  came,  they  saw  in  the  direct  aftermath  of  the  As- 
standing  on  the  shore  a  personage  cension,  inaugurated  a  welfare  move- 
whom  they  did  not  know.  His  voice  ment,  under  the  law  of  consecration, 
rang  out  to  the  fishermen:  "Chil-  for  the  temporal  sustenance  of  the 
dren,  have  ye  any  meat?"  The  fish-  Saints.  Acts  4:34-35  states:  "Neither 
ermen  answered  negatively.  Again  said  any  of  them  that  ought  of  the 
came  the  voice:     "Cast  the  net  on  things  which  they  possessed  was  his 
Page  101

102 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY,  1942 
own;  but  they  had  all  things  in  com- 
mon. .  .  .  Neither  was  there  any 
among  them  that  lacked;  for  as  many 
as  were  possessors  of  lands  or  houses 
sold  them,  and  brought  the  prices  of 
the  things  that  were  sold.  And  laid 
them  down  at  the  apostles'  feet:  and 
distribution  was  made  to  every  man 
according  as  he  had  need."  Joses  of 
Cypres  is  mentioned  as  one  who  sold 
his  land  and  gave  all  to  the  apostles. 
The  story  is  also  told  of  Annanias 
and  his  wife  Sapphira  who  sold  their 
possessions  but  selfishly  retained  a 
portion  of  the  money.  This  brought 
Peter's  stinging  rebuke:  ''While  it 
remained,  was  it  not  thine  own?  and 
after  it  was  sold,  was  it  not  in  thine 
own  power?  why  hast  thou  conceived 
this  thing  in  thine  heart?  thou  hast 
not  lied  to  men,  but  unto  God." 
Suppose  today  the  Master,  con- 
sidering our  worldly  possessions, 
should  ask  each  individually:  "Lov- 
est  thou  me  more  than  these?"  Then, 
following  our  reassuring  reply,  sup- 
pose He  should  say:  "Feed  my 
sheep."  To  what  extent  would  each 
comply? 
Today  the  Lord  does  not  require 
that  we  give  our  all,  but  He  has 
given  us  the  law  of  tithing,  which 
we,  as  a  people,  have  only  partially 
observed.  We  have  also  been 
charged  to  pay  a  fast  offering.  Many 
there  are  who  have  been  blessed  with 
affluence  who  console  themselves 
with  the  thought  that  they  have  fully 
met  the  fast  offering  requirement 
when  they  have  paid  the  amount 
suggested  by  the  Church  as  the  min- 
imum per  capita  amount.  These 
persons  could  easily  contribute  many 
times  this  amount. 
Were  the  fast  fund  commensurate 
with  the  ability  of  Latter-day  Saint 
people  to  pay,  the  welfare  movement 
would  be  fully  financed;  moreover, 
the  present  heavy  call  upon  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  for  assistance  from 
the  tithing  funds  to  help  wards  meet 
monthly  deficits  incurred  through 
providing  for  underprivileged  mem- 
bers, would  be  eliminated. 
Church  members  should  advisedly 
and  prayerfully  consider  the  follow- 
ing lines: 
If  everybody  cared  enough. 
If  everybody  shared  enough, 
Everybody  would  have  enough. 
-^- 
TWO  OF  ME 
Eva  Willes  Wangsgaard 
There  always  will  be  two  of  me. 
Two  birds  of  different  feather. 
One  loves  the  earth,  and  one  would  be 
Away  beyond  the  heather. 
Beyond  the  wind,  beyond  the  sun— 
I  long  to  set  her  winging, 
But  that  would  rob  the  other  one 
Of  all  she  knows  of  singing.