[Vol29 | February 1942 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Excerpts from Woman's Exponent, 1872-1877]
Excerpts  From 
The  Woman's  Exponent,  1872-1877 
(Selected  by  Marianne  C.   Sharp) 
"The  following  lines  were  found  written 
on  a  scrap  and  lying  on  an  open  Bible  in 
the  room  where,  and  at  the  time  when, 
the  Society  was  organized;  which  have 
been  carefully  preserved  and  transcribed 
as  an  appropriate  frontispiece  to  the  Fe- 
male Relief  Society  Book  of  Records:  'O 
Lord,  help  our  widows  and  fatherless  chil- 
dren! So  mote  it  be.  Amen.  With  the 
sword  and  the  word  of  truth,  defend  Thou 
them.  So  mote  it  be.  Amen.'  "  (Volume 
I,  No.  1,  June  i,  1872) 
Speaking  of  the  Relief  Society  in  Nau- 
voo:  The  meetings  were  so  large  that 
the  largest  hall  in  the  city  was  densely 
crowded,  and  it  became  necessary  to  ad- 
journ to  the  Grove,  the  usual  place  in 
the  summer  for  holding  Sabbath  meeting, 
which  was  provided  with  a  suitable  stand 
and  a  supply  of  seats  for  large  assemblies. 
Each  one  wishing  to  join  the  Society  was 
required  to  present  a  certificate  of  her 
good  moral  character,  signed  by  two  or 
more  responsible  persons.  The  meetings 
were  opened  and  closed  by  singing  and 
prayer,  and  systematic  order  was  observed 
throughout.  In  each  meeting  reports  were 
given  by  those  whose  duty  it  was  to  visit 
from  house  to  house  and  inquire  into  the 
circumstances  of  the  sick  and  destitute — 
donations  were  received  and  those  subjects 
discussed  which  appertain  to  woman's  du- 
ties, influence,  responsibilities,  etc.,  etc. 
— whatever  has  a  tendency  to  benefit  and 
elevate  society  at  home  and  abroad.  .  .  . 
Frequently  President  Joseph  Smith,  Bishop 
N.  K.  Whitney  and  brethren  of  the 
Twelve  met  with  the  sisters,  and  through 
the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  im- 
parted rich  counsel  and  intelligence;  in- 
structing, not  only  in  duties  concerning 
the  poor,  but  also  in  all  the  relations  of 
life,  as  wives,  mothers,  daughters,  sisters, 
and,  as  saints  of  the  Most  High,  our  duties 
to  one  another  and  our  responsibilities  as 
examples  to  the  world,  etc.  .  .  .  The  first 
winter  after  the  Society  was  organized  was 
exceedingly  cold  and  severe  .  .  .  and  had 
it  not  been  for  the  timely  aid  of  the  Female 
Relief  Society  (many)  would  have  suffered 
much,  and  probably  some  would  have  per- 
ished. 
"About  the  last  of  July,  1842,  when 
some  of  the  officials  of  Missouri  were  tak- 
ing measures  to  drag  President  Joseph 
Smith  from  Illinois  by  an  illegal  process, 
the  Female  Relief  Society  sent  a  petition 
to  Thomas  Carlin,  Governor  of  Illinois, 
in  behalf  of  Pres.  Smith,  claiming  his  pro- 
tection as  chief  magistrate.  The  petition 
was  signed  by  every  member  of  the  Society 
and  presented  by  its  president,  Mrs.  Em- 
ma Smith,  accompanied  by  Mrs.  Amanda 
Smith  and  Miss  E.  R.  Snow.  .  .  .  What- 
ever the  result,  the  Female  Relief  Society 
had  made  a  noble  effort,  and  it  was  com- 
pensated by  knowing  that  the  great,  good 
man,  Joseph  Smith,  appreciated  it.  ...  " 
— Ehza  R.  Snow  (June  15,  1872) 
Speaking  of  the  Rehef  Society  in  1872: 
"In  having  been  driven  from  a  city,  we 
have  become  a  Territory — should  have 
been  a  State — and  here,  the  Female  Relief 
Society,  more  amply  developed  than  in 
Nauvoo,  has  extended  its  branches  to  every 
ward  and  settlement  from  Bear  Lake  in 
the  North  to  Santa  Clara  in  the  South,  and