Relief Society Monument Unveiled in Nauvoo By Julia A. F. Lund
NAUVOO—what a world of memories, tragic and heroic, that name suggests! As it appeared on the twenty-sixth of July, 1933, a quiet little country town, about six hours ride from Chicago, nestling in its wealth of green trees on the banks of the Mississippi, it was difficult to visualize it as the scene of events so momentous in the history of our people. One could summon, in imagination, the parade of the Nauvoo Legion, the majesty of the splendid Temple, the stirring appeal of the gatherings in the Grove, as well as the many homes of our early leaders—still standing, all eloquent of the purpose and the power of the founders of Nauvoo. As these stirring scenes of the past unfold before us, the words of Proverbs take on renewed force: "Remove not the ancient landmarks set up by your fathers." These "landmarks" suggest a source of courage and spiritual rebirth whenever they come to our minds.
It has long been the desire of President Robison and her associates, to give concrete form to the great debt of gratitude felt by the Relief Society for its founders—to perpetuate the site of its organization, and to create, as it were, a shrine where a grateful people could take on new faith and hope from a review of the glorious past. Such in a word, was the spirit animating the erection of the monument.
During an address in the General Conference of Relief Society last October, Elder George Albert Smith remarked that a marker of some kind should be placed on the site of the organization of Relief Society, as one of the important events in Church history. That was just the seed dropped in soil already prepared to receive it. The First Presidency were interviewed and gave hearty approval to the plan. As President Robison was returning from an important mission in the East in April of this year, she visited Nauvoo. This confirmed her desire to execute the project. From careful research in the history of the Church, it was learned that the Relief Society was organized in a room over the store operated by Joseph Smith. This room was a most important place, as the Prophet used it for an office, where he did much of his sacred writing and translating. It was also used as a meeting place by the Masonic Lodge of Nauvoo before their hall was completed. This latter fact gave rise to the belief that the Masonic Hall was the scene of the Relief Society's organization. The recent discovery of this error made a very different background for the erection of the monument.
The Joseph Smith store stood upon one of the most sacred pieces of ground, to Latter-day Saints, in all the world. It is a part of the homestead where his first home was built in Nauvoo, and where now rest the bodies of Joseph and Hyrum and Emma. This property belongs to the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints. It was necessary to obtain the consent of this church to place the monument upon their ground. This was accomplished through Dr. Frederick M. Smith, President of the Reorganized Church, and grandson of the Prophet Joseph. Dr. Smith was most gracious and cooperative from the standpoint of his Church and of his family, who were deeply appreciative of the spirit of the memorial and of the honor conferred upon Emma Hale Smith, first president of Relief Society.
ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH, who has been an inspiration to the Relief Society in its development of plans for the monument, gave most freely of his time and talents. President Samuel O. Bennion, whose long residence in and near the early scenes of Church history, and whose intimate acquaintance with the places and people necessary to contact in developing the plans, was suggested by the First Presidency as the person best able to handle the proposition from the Nauvoo end. President Bennion threw himself enthusiastically into the work. Here the Relief Society wishes to acknowledge its great debt of gratitude to these two able men, whose service and advice assured the success of the memorial.
The monument was secured through the Elias Morris and Sons Company, Brother George Q. Morris, Manager, who spared no pains in making every detail conform to the wishes of Relief Society. The stone is of Tennessee rose quartzite, said to be harder than granite, and very beautiful. The center stone is four by eight feet. The bronze tablets were made by the Salt Lake Stamp Company, and shipped to Nauvoo. They bear at the top the relief of the store building, and the following inscriptions:
National Woman's Relief Society
This monument marks the site of the building in the upper room of which the Female Relief Society, now the National Woman's Relief Society, was organized March 17, 1842, by the Prophet Joseph Smith, First President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, assisted by John Taylor and Willard Richards.
The charter officers were: Emma Hale Smith, President; Sarah M. Cleveland, First Counselor; Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Second Counselor; Eliza R. Snow, Secretary; Phoebe M. Wheeler, Assistant Secretary; Elvira A. Cowles, Treasurer.
The purposes of the Society were to care for the poor, minister to the sick, comfort the sorrowing, teach righteousness and strengthen the morals of the community.
The original minutes and records were taken by Eliza R. Snow to Utah, where the work of the organization was continued by the Church.
Of the eighteen charter members three became Presidents. The seven women who have presided over the organization are: Emma Hale Smith, Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, Emmeline B. Wells, Clarissa Smith Williams and Louise Yates Robison.
The present membership, in 1933, is 67,000.
Keeping pace with the development of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, this Society has become potent for benevolence, education and progress among women.
Louise Yates Robison President Amy Brown Lyman First Counselor Julia Alleman Child Second Counselor Julia A. F. Lund Secretary-Treasurer
This monument, erected by the National Woman's Relief Society, with headquarters at Salt Lake City, Utah, is placed on this site through the courtesy of the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, with headquarters at Independence, Missouri, owner of this property.
The frontispiece is a very good likeness as the monument stands completed, at the side of the store site. The four walls of the basement foundation are in a good state of preservation. The debris has all been cleared away, and the earth floor sodded, from which trees are growing, giving the appearance of a sunken garden. Two expert landscape gardeners were engaged, and the trees, grass and shrubs are a reality, with the placid Mississippi in the background, constituting a perfect shrine of beauty and sacred memories. The two beautiful Relief Society banners and flag had been sent from the office, and were shown to wonderful advantage.
UNVEILING THE MONUMENT
MONUMENT UNVEILED IN NAUVOO