Greetings on Wings of Song By May Anderson
THE HALL OF SCIENCE, the largest and most imposing of all the exhibition buildings in the World's Fair, is set in a Court of Honor. The Court is appropriately named for here are conducted important events which take place from time to time, these emphasize the idea that as the Fair continues from day to day it carries on through programs and demonstrations that the making of history is a part of the Century of Progress.
THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS has a worth-while exhibit in the Hall of Religions which attracts many of the people passing daily through this building. Missionaries, pamphlets and opportunities for speakers in the lecture room all add to the effectiveness of the exhibit. A national broadcast has been used by the women of the Church which permitted them to speak to other women and demonstrate how they are moving forward with the rest of the world towards a higher plane of civilization.
ONE of the special events scheduled to be held in Chicago during the World's Fair was an International Congress of Women. To this congress came many women, representatives of 33 nations. Each nation had sent one or more of its most intelligent and capable women, many were graduates of the great colleges of the world and in nearly every instance, specialists of renown. Numbered amongst this group were general board representatives of the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. And Primary Associations. It was a privilege to be present at the many meetings and to listen to the accounts of the growth and development of the status of women in nearly all of the nations of the world and to be informed of their efforts to reach the ideals of a civilization that might be world wide. The Relief Society has membership in the National Council of Women and is well received and honored as an outstanding organization for women and as such had a part in the programs of the Congress.
During this congress of women, in addition to the educational features there were events that were presented for the purpose of entertainment as well as for instruction, such as luncheons, banquets, pageants, etc. It was an inspirational thought which suggested that the Relief Society present its "Singing Mothers" over a national broadcast as its contribution to an international gathering of women. The offer was graciously accepted and was announced as a part of the program to be presented in the World's Fair in the Court of Honor.
To the group from Utah, the evening of July 21st, 1933 was more than a part of a program, it was a gesture from the women of the Mormon Church to the women of the world. We confess to some nervousness—would it be just the right thing and would it measure up in presentation and artistry to such a discriminating audience?
THE setting and environment for the program seem almost beyond the writer's ability to describe. After a strenuous day of meetings and sightseeing it was so pleasant to sit quietly and restfully in beautiful surroundings. Lake Michigan as the background was sending cool refreshing breezes, before us the Hall of Science, we had wandered through its spacious interior rejoicing in the evidence there of the marvels of nature and science. A great tower rose above this Hall of Science supporting, like a belfry, the amplifier over which we were shortly to hear from our loved mountain home. Sitting by our honored Relief Society President was Miss Lena M. Phillips, the President of the National Council of Women; and we could see that we were being surrounded by many of the members of the International Congress of Women, we recognized, even in the descending darkness, many of the foreign delegates—they had proven themselves to be so intelligent, wide-awake and alert in their understanding and appreciation of the higher ideals, and again we wondered, would they learn anything from our effort?
Slowly the twilight descended, the shadows grew darker and darker. Then as though the shadows themselves became charged with warmth and light, glowing colors of all the sunsets and sunrises ever seen gradually merged and spread until we seemed to be in a land of magical color harmonies.
Out through this beauty came the voice of KSL and the humming voices of our own dear Singing Mothers accompanied by the big organ in the Tabernacle in "Songs My Mother Taught Me." Then! Richard L. Evans, announcing. "The Singing Mothers of the National Woman's Relief Society send greetings on wings of song to the National Council of Women and the International Congress of Women, assembled in the Hall of Science, Chicago.
"This presentation of. Two hundred fifty singing voices emanating from the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City is released through the nationwide facilities of the Columbia network and through the public address system at the Century of Progress Exposition, Chicago.
"One can scarcely credit changes that appear in retrospection. Woman has taken her rightful place. Motherhood is protected and sanctified and revered. The doors of learning have been opened wide and without stint to the mothers of men. The professions have yielded and embraced the cause of woman. Government and the sciences have felt the surge of woman's influence and have been bettered by its presence, Education and Religion have responded to the mighty pulse. A man's world has become a world for men and women, striving for a common goal, with mutual understanding, in united endeavor—thus fulfilling the inspired words of a poet who nearly a century ago wrote better than he knew; "The woman's cause is man's. They rise or sink together. Dwarfed or godlike, bond or free."
"The Century of Progress" may claim forever one achievement of transcending greatness—a man's world has become a world for men and women! "From the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City we salute the National Council of Women and the International Congress of Women assembled in the Hall of Science, Century of Progress Exposition, Chicago. "A voice of profound devotion speaks—eloquently, from the past. David of Old gave the sentiment; Schubert, the music; the Singing Mothers, the interpretation. "The Lord is My Shepherd, I Shall Not Want." "The singing mothers of the National Woman's Relief Society have sent greetings on wings of song to the National Council of Women and the International Congress of Women assembled in the Hall of Science, Chicago. The Singing Mothers directed by Charlotte Sackett, were assisted by William Hardiman and Alta Cassity. Frank Asper was at the great organ." As the program progressed we were thrilled—surely years of devotion 521 to the ideals which may be expressed in music were amply repaid. The voice of Richard L. Evans, with sweet quality of tone and clearness of enunciation was so acceptable, the great organ was great as it pealed in delicacy or force, manipulated by the clever hands and feet of Alexander Schreiner. We thought we could see Sister Sackett, her whole body expressing her love of music and her desire to accomplish one more success. "THE writer shared with the rest of the Utah representatives a happy sense of something beautifully done. It was a success. As the delegates crowded around our little group expressing pleasure and offering praise and thanks we knew that with the blessing of the Lord the women of our Church had touched the hearts of an unusual group of other women and it was with prayers of thanksgiving that we turned away from a place of enchantment feeling sure that, for us at least, one great step in a Century of Progress had gone into history bearing the imprint of the Gospel of Salvation. A book is a friend that never deceives. Fontanelle. It is no use running: to set out betimes is the main point. La Fontaine. When a fool has made up his mind, the market has gone by. Spanish Proverb. The path of a good woman is indeed strewn with flowers, but they rise behind her steps, not before them. Ruskin. Neither is life long enough for friendship. That is a serious and majestic affair, like a royal presence, or a religion, and not a postillion's dinner, to be eaten on the run— Emerson. Blessed is the man who has the gift of making friends, for it is one of God's best gifts. It involves many things, but above all is the power of going out of one's self and-seeing and appreciating whatever is noble and lovable in another man. Thomas Hughes.