THE unveiling of this Relief Society monument seemed a fitting climax to those who had been in attendance at the International Congress of Women, and we felt with conscious pride that in the story of women's achievements the world over, no group had made a nobler contribution to the Century of Progress than had our own Relief Society women. Glory to their names!
No one fortunate enough to be present will ever forget the services of this day, Wednesday, July 26, 1933. From the standpoint of the weather it was ideal, and every preparation possible for the comfort of the visitors had been made by the hospitable people of Nauvoo, aided by Brother John D. Giles of Salt Lake, who had gone in advance. President Louise Y. Robison and President Samuel O. Bennion arrived a day early to check on final details. The large group taking the tour under the leadership of Mrs. Vida Fox Clawson and Mr. Daniel S. Spencer, arrived on Wednesday, and added much to the enthusiasm of the day.
It was a great honor and pleasure to have in attendance President Ruth May Fox and Miss Clarissa A. Beesley, of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and Superintendent May Anderson and Mrs. Isabelle S. Ross of the Primary Association. The following missions were represented—Northern States, President and Mrs. George S. Romney; Northcentral States, President and Mrs. Arthur Welling; Central States, President and Mrs. Samuel O. Bennion; Texas, President and Mrs. Charles E. Rowan, Jr.; Western States, President Elias S. Woodruff.
A telegram regretting his inability to be in attendance was read from Dr. Howard R. Driggs, President of the Oregon Trail Association, and Dean of the Department of English in the University of New York. Dr. Driggs expressed hearty congratulations to the Relief Society, upon the erection of the monument.
Elder George Albert Smith was appointed by the First Presidency to represent the Church. Dr. Frederick M. Smith, President of the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, and his three sisters, also nine other lineal descendants of the Prophet Joseph and Emma Smith, were present. The people of Nauvoo and neighboring towns were out en masse. The Honorable Henry Horner, Governor of Illinois, could not attend due to another engagement, but he sent a personal representative in Mr. W. D. Chenery, who read a very pleasant message from the Governor.
To quote from the Nauvoo Independent of July 27, 1933—"Mrs. Louise Yates Robison—President of the Relief Society, was chairman of the exercises, and she was indeed wonderful. Her pleasing manner and ready wit caught the crowd."
The following program was carried through:
1. Community Singing: (a) "America." (b) "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning."
2. Invocation—Elder George S. Romney, Chicago, Illinois, President of the Northern States Mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
3. Address of Welcome—The Honorable James L. Ogden, Mayor of Nauvoo, Illinois.
4. Response—Elder Samuel O. Bennion, Independence, Missouri, President of the Central States Mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
5. Address—Dr. Frederick M. Smith, Independence, Missouri, President of the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints.
6. Historical Sketch—Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Salt Lake City, Utah, First Counselor in the Presidency of the National Woman's Relief Society.
7. Our Society—Mrs. Julia Alleman Child, Salt Lake City, Utah, Second Counselor in the Presidency of the National Woman's Relief Society.
8. A Tribute to Emma Hale Smith, First President of the Relief Society—Mrs. Julia A. Farnsworth Lund, Salt Lake City, Utah, Secretary-Treasurer of the National Woman's Relief Society.
9. Tenor Solo—Rulon Y. Robison, Boston, Massachusetts.
10. Address—Daniel S. Spencer, Salt Lake City, Utah, Grandson of Daniel Spencer, Former Mayor of Nauvoo.
11. Address—Mrs. Louise Yates Robison, Salt Lake City, Utah, President of the National Woman's Relief Society.
12. Unveiling of the Memorial—Mrs. Bertha A. Hulmes, Grosse Ile, Michigan, Great Granddaughter of Emma Hale Smith, Assisted by Miss Barbara Hulmes, Grosse Ile, Michigan, Great-Great Granddaughter of Emma Hale Smith, and Miss Helen Claire Robison, Boston, Massachusetts, Granddaughter of Louise Yates Robison.
13. Address—The Honorable George Albert Smith, Salt Lake City, Utah, Member of the Council of the Twelve Apostles of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and President of the Utah Pioneer Trails and Landmarks Association.
14. Community Singing—"Now Let Us Rejoice in the Day of Salvation."
15. Benediction—Elder Elias S. Woodruff, Denver, Colorado, President of the Western States Mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
NOTE: The songs, "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning," and "Now Let Us Rejoice in the Day of Salvation," were sung at the meeting in which the Relief Society was organized, March 17, 1842.
One of the most delightful and artistic features of the exercises was the music. Rulon Y. Robison, son of our President, came from Boston to be present. He led the community singing, and gave several tenor solos, among them "The Knight of Bethlehem," in a manner that made one feel that "music is the highest form of expression."
The unveiling of the monument, by charming Mrs. Bertha A. Hulmes, great granddaughter of Emma Smith, was sublime in its simplicity. One of the most beautiful and touching events of the memorable day was the placing of the wreaths upon the graves of the martyrs and Emma Smith. These wreaths were made of lovely "everlasting" leaves of the Magnolia, in shades of bronze, and clusters of fresh roses. As a loving tribute President Robison laid the wreath upon Emma Smith's grave, Counselor Amy Brown Lyman upon the Prophet Joseph's, and Counselor Julia A. Child upon Hyrum Smith's.
Luncheon was served at noon by the ladies of the Reorganized Church in the Nauvoo House and on the banks of the Mississippi River.
DESCENDANTS OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH AND EMMA SMITH Present at the Dedication of the Monument
The Unity Club of Nauvoo sponsored a tour of the historic buildings in Nauvoo, and a visit to Carthage. In the evening a meeting was held upon the site of the morning's activities. Elder George Albert Smith was Master of Ceremonies at this gathering, and made a happy little talk. Mrs. Audentia Smith Anderson spoke on the life and family of Emma Hale Smith. Many speeches were made, and Rulon Robison again led the singing and rendered some lovely old songs. So concluded one of the most eventful days in the history of the Relief Society. The Monument stands upon the sacred spot; symbolizing faith kept, courage sustained, ideals realized; a remarkable blending of a past full of glory, a future full of promise, animated and directed by that "Spirit which giveth light."