Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
To loiter in the sweet gloom of a September day, when the purple hills throw back the setting sun's soft glow and all the air is filled with fragrance of clover bloom and eglantine, is to forget the worries of the day and to remember God's most precious gifts are given freely to all men.
ANNA ELEANOR ROOSEVELT, first lady of the land, has now added to her versatile career the interesting task of columnist, and for the coming year will edit a question and answer department for the Woman's Home Companion. She will receive the modest sum of $1,000 a month for this service.
MRS. MARIAN GLASS BANNISTER of Virginia has been appointed assistant treasurer of the United States.
Miss CHARLOTTE CARR, Vassar graduate, and prominent social worker, has been appointed Secretary of Labor and Industry for the state of Pennsylvania by Governor Pinchot, and Miss Josephine McGowan has been named director of the minimum wage law in Ohio. Both appointments are in harmony with the wishes of Madam Secretary Perkins.
MRS. MARY TEASDEL, Utah artist, has been honored this summer by having an art collection named for her in Smithfield, Utah. She contributed a number of beautiful water color sketches to the collection.
LOUISE CLOSSER HALE, who died this summer, was equally great in many roles. She was an author of note, a promoter of plays, and a playwright, a popular film actress, and a choice friend in literary and theatrical circles. Perhaps she will be remembered longest as heroine in "The White Sister," "Shanghai Express" and "The Barbarian."
HELEN WILLS MOODY, America's tennis champion, has a close competitor in the youthful Helen Jacobs. Though she won the Wimbledon titles over the English champion, Miss Dorothy Round, she has not yet more than equalled the record of France's favorite, Suzanne Lenglen.
AMY JOHNSON MOLLISON, with her no less daring husband, made a forced landing just as they neared their goal, New York. Nothing daunted, though injured and disappointed, this intrepid couple are now preparing a longer and more dangerous flight to South America.
EDITH WHARTON has issued a book of short stories which the critics pronounce equally as excellent in craftmanship as her longer and earlier novels.
ZONA GALE'S novelette, "Papa La Fleur," is a charming idealization of character rather overpoetized than plausible as a story of reality. It is however delightful reading and characteristic of the author.
MRS. ELIZABETH M. BASS of Chicago has recently been assigned the most difficult task of district chief of the federal narcotic bureau.