Notes from the Field
Hawaiian Mission.
SISTER JANET SCOTT, who returned from a mission to Hawaii during the Summer, has this to say: "It has been my rare privilege to attend over 35 different Relief Societies in the Hawaiian Mission and participate with those faithful sisters in the various activities. The Relief Society Presidents are capable, competent, self-sacrificing mothers. Each Hawaiian Relief Society member speaks at least two languages—English and Hawaiian. The older members who were trained in the Hawaiian speaking schools have learned to read, speak and write English through diligent study of our Church literature. The Relief Society Magazine was introduced into the organization this year as their guide; previous to this time the lessons were translated into Hawaiian. Through constant reading and faithful study of our Magazine these women have learned to read and write and speak English more fluently. The Magazine has improved the home circle, given thought for more expansive learning, developed a keener appreciation for the fine arts, and served as a guide for constructive doctrinal interpretation. Under the loving, sympathetic and capable leadership of Sister Castle H. Murphy, the activities have increased in members and accomplishments. The young girls from the ages of 14 to 25 years have joined with the mothers, thus bringing mother and daughter together in mutual interests and understanding. The sisters afflicted with leprosy in their settlement at Kalaupapa, are most appealing. To hear them sing "Count Your Many Blessings," and in all humility praise our Father for His goodness unto them is a demonstration of great faith. They, the Hawaiian Sisters, likewise are carrying out the lessons as planned, and through their fine efforts others are requesting that they might be affiliated with them. As the birthday anniversaries of the organization roll round, each sister Relief Society invites the Relief Society of the island to a reception. In response to this invitation, birthday gifts are given, luncheon served, testimonies and the spirit of "Aloha" fills the souls of hostesses and guests. Each member has her beautiful white dress which is saved for Relief Society meetings. Our Hawaiian mothers are proud, and where they meet for worship and service, personal appearance is important.
"Quilt making and lauhala weaving is an original and developed art, and through cooperation our sisters use these methods for finance, which means so earned is showered generously on the less fortunate.
"The Relief Society sisters have proven mothers to each Missionary; their homes were our homes. May it be your joy to meet our dear sisters in this land of love, sunshine, flowers and music."
St. Joseph Stake.
JUNE 2, 1933, being the 50th anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society in the St. Joseph stake, the Stake Board decided to celebrate with an excursion to the Arizona Temple to do work for the dead. Of the 11 members of the Stake Board, there were 10 present, the absent one being away from home. There were 140 in all, including a good number of our Bishops and Ward Presidents. Before beginning the work a special testimony meeting was called by President David K. Udall, and all were privileged to participate. A good many took advantage of this opportunity, among them the Stake Board, after which our Stake President Harry L. Payne, spoke for a short time. The music was furnished by members of the stake. The first session had to be divided into two companies, so many wished to participate. At 4 p. m., there was a special session called for members of the St. Joseph Stake. Between the morning and afternoon session the Relief Society of the Maricopa Stake served all with excellent refreshments. In the evening there was another session. During the day there were 459 endowments and of these 390 were given by the St. Joseph Stake. There was great rejoicing in the Temple, and we feel that there was on the 'Other Side' also. The Temple officials stated that June 2nd was the largest day that the Temple has had since the dedication.