A SKETCH OF THE JAREDITES.

	In the days of Shiblon, because of the
iniquity of the people, many prophets ap-
peared and foretold the woes that would
mark the extinction of the race. Civil wars
and robber bands did their part; famine and
pestilence followed. Finally the king was
slain and his son Seth taken into captivity.
Seth was the next rightful heir to the
throne, but he was kept in captivity the
rest of his life.
	Ahab, the son of Seth, was the next
monarch. He was a wicked king, but his
reign was brief. His son Etham succeeded
him.
	In Etham’s days many prophets came
again to raise their warning voices. They
prophesied of the destruction that would
surely come upon the wicked if they did
not turn from their iniquity, but they heed-
ed not the words of the heaven inspired
messengers, and they withdrew from
among them. When Etham died his son
Moron succeeded the throne.
	Moron, like his father Etham, was a
most wicked king. During his reign the
robber bands which at that time flourished
among the people, led a rebellion amongst
the people and wrested from him his king-
dom, but after many years he succeeded in
defeating them and regained possession of
his kingdom. He was again defeated and
carried into captivity.
	Coriantor was the son of Moron, and was
held in captivity all his life. This was a
period of sin and war. He was the father
of the Prophet Ether. Ether was the last
great prophet of the Jaredites, to whom we
are indebted for the history of that race,
that once mighty nation.
	In the days of Coriantumr, the last of the
Jaredite kings, the Prophet Ether raised
his warning voice, but all his words were
rejected by that fast decaying nation. They
cast him out from their midst, and he spent
his days in a mountain cave. While he
was thus hiding he wrote the history of his
times and people. These were troublous
times indeed for the war which commenced
in the first year of Ether’s concealment
lasted until the nation was destroyed, men
and women fighting with the same intense
hate.
	In the second year of the war Ether
again appeared among the people and de-
clared if they repented not they should all
be slain except Coriantumr. They were
angry with him and sought to take his life,
so he again retired to his place of conceal-
ment. 
	In the third year Shared, a leader of the
revolutionists, defeated Coriantumr, and
held him a prisoner. In the fourth year
the sons of Coriantumr released their father
and placed him again on the throne. 
	At last the vast armies of Coriantumr
and Shared met in the valley of Gelgal and
fought for three days, the king was victor-
ous. One battle followed another, year
after year, millions fell before the last ter-
rible struggle ended, when Coriantumr
stood alone, the sole representative of his
race, the last and final battle being fought
near the hill Ramah, (Cumorah, N. Y.)


