[Column 2]
come of neglect in these directions we are
already familiar. By what process of reason-
ing may we benefit other people to the in-
jury of our own? To make it quite clear,
it should be repeated, that to give the
capitalist opportunity to take advantage of
remote low priced labor, to bring it without
impediment in competition with our native
labor, is a crime unpardonable in the present
stage of American civilization and repudi-
ation of protective principle.
   It is the folly of sentimentality that claims
the Filipinoes can be affiliated; there can be
no affiliation with Poles, Bohemians and
Italians who come to our great centres;
here they colonize for that very reason, and
by perpetuating old world customs, be-
come a menace to our social and moral life
and a check to our industrial development,
and with their old world ideas and govern-
ment become dangerous to the permanence
of existing institutions. Witness the growth
of socialism which has made possible the
election of three socialist mayors, one of
them the mayor of Boston.
   If the Poles, Bohemians and Italians,
with whom we brush elbows, cannot be
affiliated, how much less will it be possible
to affiliate ten millions of an alien race iso-
lated in another hemisphere? And if this
is not true, why should our altruism halt
at the Philippines? Why not reach into
Asia and Turkey? Will not the flag carry
civilization to them also? Upon the
principle that would lead us to annex the
Philippines, what right have we to deny
the advantage to those benighted countries ?
Upon what principles, indeed, do our ex-
pansionists draw the line at the Philippines?
Let us not make the fatal mistake of pros-
tituting the purity of our flag by claiming
for it that which it does not do.
   It cannot carry trade to the Philippines;
it would appear that the Filipinos must
learn to wear shirts before there can be a
demand for our factory made goods. No,
our flag does not carry trade, but follows it;
and what trade shall we acquire there that
we have not already possessed at vastly less
cost than the maintenance of the islands as
a territory ? Can the flag give them great-
er liberty than they now enjoy? Why,
they can even eat each other, and by way
of variety, an occasional trader or mission-
ary, without impairing their digestion. Re-
ligious liberty they certainly possess, when
the range is from Catholicism to the most 
revolting forms of fetish worship that these
extremes exist, that the gradations in re-
ligious sentiment do not exist, is abundant
proof that they cannot even affiliate with
themselves. It will take the evolution of
hundreds of years to bring ten millions of
ten cent a day laborers to the point of de-
siring freedom. Need we pause to analyze
their moral status? We can scarcely ex-
pect a moral status within a people who
have not yet learned to wear clothes. Per-
haps this is an error and these islands are a
new Garden of Eden, where the traditional
apple has not yet been plucked; a paradise
from which state in our perhaps mistaken
idea of progress we are ever moving further
away. But seriously, shall we hoist the
flag in a land that can bring us nothing in
products that we do not already or may
produce? Shall we hoist the flag over an
alien people that capitalists may use them
to undersell our home labor ? We will
hoist our flag as an incentive to hope and as
a promise that they shall be sustained on
every plane to which they may arise by
their own efforts.

[Column 3]
   The capitalists have had their era; we
needed them and we need them now; capital
is necessary to the development of extensive
enterprise. It is now in good working or-
der, and it should not be allowed to move
into a foreign land.
   It should be used to fulfill the promise of
our protective policy, and be forced to react
upon our laborers.
   We want more industries; we want great-
er and better facilities for education; we
want our country put in a perfectly sanitary
condition; we want to stamp out the sweat
shops; we want to add dignity to labor; we
want the race problem solved.
   The business of this era is not the acquisi-
tion of new territory, it is to lift the masses
out of the degradation of poverty, and when
this is accomplished, with the superabund-
ance we have on hand, it well be time
enough to lay hold of another hemisphere.
		CORNELIA S. ROBINSON.
   Read before the Woman’s Council at
Washington.


