POLGAMY.

	A resolution against the admission of
Congressman Roberts of Utah, was adopted
on Monday, March 20, by the Massachusetts
House of Representatives after a sharp de-
bate.
	Mr. Tolman, of Pittsfield, opposed the
resolution against the admission of Brigham
H. Roberts of Utah to a seat in the 56th
Congress. He said it was none of the
business of the Legislature. Neither Utah
nor Massachusetts Congressmen had asked
the Legislature to act. He hoped it would
be killed.
	Mr. Salter, of Lynn, for the committee
reporting the resolve, said this was a moral
question. The committee was unanimous
in support of the resolution.
	Mr. Murphy, of Lawrence, said he had
listened with a good deal of amusement to
the wail of the screech owl from Wachusett.
The question was a pressing one. In New
York this resolution was passed, and so it
was in Kansas. The Mormons had agreed
to quit polygamy, but had not done so.
Roberts had served his time in jail for poly-
gamy.
	Mr. Charles R. Saunders opposed the
resolution. It was no business of the
Legislature to be instructing our Congress-
men. A good policy for the Legislature
was to mind its own business. Utah should
have been kept out of the Union unless she
gave safe guarantee to cease polygamous
acts.
	Mr. Hawes, of Weymouth, said in reply
to Mr. Tolman that there was a committee
on federal relations to consider just such
questions, and it was the business of the
Legislature, if it was fit, to act on national
questions.
	Mr. Davenport, of Greenfield, made a
strong plea for the polygamists. He was
in favor of the broadest freedom in religious
matters, quoting the Constitution. He said
there was a wise man in the Bible who be-
lieved in polygamy. He could not say that
there was anything in polygamy that was
immoral.
	Mr. Salter, of Lynn, said three-fourths of
the members would be glad if the resolution
had not been brought in, but he thought
they would not care to vote against morality.
	Mr. Douglass, of Boston, said this motion
was a Christian motion. If carried out,
polygamy would break up the foundations
of society. He was for the resolution and
Christian morality.
	The resolution was adopted, 68 to 59.


Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier 
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

