[Column 2]
mountain vales the love of country and of
independence, such as we are convinced
our forefathers and foremothers cultivated
in their day and time in the early colonies,
the record of which has been handed down
to us and to which struggle they brought
such unqualified heroism, after having
sacrificed home and native land for liberty.
	This intermountain region is spontan-
eously bursting with the spirit of freedom;
its physical characteristics bear proof of the
assertion. The mountains sublimely grand
in majesty are symbols of integrity, courage
and solidity. Towers of strength indicat-
ing power and might; naturally the chil-
dren born here, as all of this society were
save only your Regent, must inhale this 
spirit which pervades the land.
	The very air we breathe is redolent of
freedom. For this precious gift let us
offer a tribute of praise from the altar of our
hearts to the God of liberty. We can
scarcely be too ardent in our enthusiasm
concerning this goodly land, these beauti-
ful vales in the desert where a band of
weary Pilgrims found rest and peace after a
long and toilsome journey across the bleak
and desolate plains, having been wanderers 
like the children of Israel for an indefinite
period because of their religious faith, and
like their illustrious forefathers, the found-
ers of the colonies on the Atlantic shore
who left their native homes and country
and crossed the mighty ocean, enduring
untold hardships almost too appalling for
repetition because of persecution for their
religion; and yet some of their descendants
at a later date were forced to come hither,
traversing untrodden desert ways, and fin-
ally made their resting place by America’s
Great Dead Sea. An over-ruling Provi-
dence guided the pilgrims of New England
across the mighty deep, and the pioneers of
Utah to this valley, toward the Pacific
slope and the setting sun.
	We must teach our children such lessons
of patriotism and love of humanity and of
religious liberty, that they will never incline
to deeds of disloyalty, nor consent to the
persecution of any denomination or people
of whatever belief or unbelief, Christian,
Jew, Mohammedan or Infidel.
	Teach the children the songs of their
fathers and their mothers. “Sing aloud,
Old Songs the precious music of the heart."

“Teach them your children round the hearth
When evening fires burn clear;
And in the fields of harvest mirth,
And on the hills of deer. 
So shall each unforgotten word 
When far their loved ones roam,
Call back the hearts which once it stirred
To childhood’s holy home.”  
	* * *
“The songs that thro’ the valleys green
Sent on from age to age;
Like his own river’s voice have been
The peasant’s heritage.”

	It is rather remarkable that just a short
period previous to the recent war with
Spain the women of this nation should
have been impressed to band themselves to-
gether in patriotic societies throughout the
United States, arousing the spirit of patriot-
ism in communities and striving to learn
the unwritten history of the greater activity
of patriotic valor, and searching deep into
the genealogy of the past to establish indi-
vidual claims of direct lineage, whereby
they might link themselves to the fathers
and forefathers who preceded them, and
secure perfect recognition of inherited right


