[Column 1]  
   It may be asked how this labor will
come in direct competition. The fact that
capitalists are always seeking the lowest
cost of production (and rightly) will be
sufficient reason for the removal to the
Philippines of numerous factories, should
they be annexed, and taking advantage of
the low priced labor send their products,
here in competition free of all duty. In
the nature of our chosen policy, have we
the right to permit this course? This same
policy conserved the market to the producer;
he has spent his time and energies in the
production of capital, and the acquisition
of wealth; he has been lifted to the plane of
opulence and labor as a market has con-
tributed the means. Now a new era dawns,
and the policy that has directly benefited
the capitalist and indirectly the laborer 
should be made to react and directly benefit
the laborer.
   This can only be accomplished by con-
serving the reactionary forces within the
group or nation, and the benefits can only
be retarded by the introduction of deterior-
ating forces, such as the Philippines, which
cannot be doubted when we recognize the
social, economic and moral status of the
islands. The social plane must be the low-
est when their only wants consist of shel-
ter, food and clothing to partially cover
their nakedness, and perhaps ornamental
decorations for their naked bodies. Since
their social wants are so meagre and simple,
their industries cannot be complex, and
therefore we find them almost wholly in the
stage of hand labor.
   Their moral status is unmistakable when
we recall the prevailing custom of cannibal-
ism in many of the islands. No matter how
temptingly the feast may be prepared, al-
though in the preparation the body is stuf-
fed with sweet potatoes, breadfruit and
bananas laid on taro leaves, we can scarcely
divest ourselves of the horror of the thought
of human sacrifice for such a purpose.
   Believe in absorption as we may, assured-
ly we prefer that accomplished by social
affiliation to that of physical assimilation!
But joking aside, what horrors may be de-
picted in the subjugation of this race of
barbarians and cannibals, in comparison to
which the Indian massacres in the North-
west were child’s play. Added to this
would be the inevitable increased taxation
necessary to the maintenance of an army
and navy adequate to cope with the diffi-
culties of the situation. And all to what
end?
   A people in the stage of hand labor can-
not furnish a market for a machine using
country, and the only advantage would
accrue to the capitalist individually, to the
great disadvantage of the wage earner of
America. True the introduction of factor-
ies might benefit the Filipinos.
   Texas’ annual cotton crop is between
three and four million bales, yet the great
state boasts of only four insignificant cotton
mills, and our South awaits the further
coming of the factories, the only solution to
the distressing problem that lies in our
midst, and in addition we now have Hawaii
and Porto Rico and the responsibility of
Cuba.
   How dare we pass them over and direct
our interest and capital to so remote a peo-
ple as the Filipinos?
   What duty, in the name of humanity, do
we owe to the Filipinos, that we may with
impunity deny to our own south, our north-
west, our new territories and the immigrants
in our cities and towns? With the out-

