[Column 2]
etc. This society was one of the first or-
ganized and has always been progressive in
financial affairs, and in Spiritual matters
has been up to the spirit of the times. Its
president, Sarah M. Kimball, who had
charge over forty years, led out in enter-
prise and set an example to others. Presi-
dent Harriet A. Badger who has succeeded
Mrs. Kimball will doubtless follow her ex-
ample and keep things moving onward and
upward.
	The larger hall where the sisters con-
vened was prettily decorated with flowers,
plants and bunting, etc., and a regular
program had been arranged. President H.
A. Badger presided, Bishop R. T. Burton,
Elder S. W. Richards and Mrs. E. B. Wells
were present by invitation. Meeting opened
by singing “Praise to the man,” Prayer
was offered by Bishop Burton, followed by
the favorite hymn, “O, my Father.”
President Badger read the minutes of the
organization of thet society on the 17th of
March 1842, and some important remarks
made by the Prophet Joseph at subsequent
meetings. A Song, “Be not the first to
cast the stone,” was finely rendered by one
of the sweet singers of Israel, Mrs. Maggie
Hull.
	Bishop Burton spoke feelingly of Nauvoo
and Joseph Smith, mentioning some inci-
dents that appealed especially to him.
	Elder S. W. Richards related reminiscen-
ces of those early times and his familiar
acquaintance in his boyhood with the
Prophet Joseph.
	Mrs. Mary L. Morris recited an original
poem on Church history with good effect.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells referred to the origin
and growth of the society as a whole and
incidentally alluded to her recent visit in
Washington.
	A song by Mrs. Maude Pratt Griggs,
“Forget me not,” was charmingly rendered.
Miss Nellie Morris read a paper on the late
President Sarah M. Kimball, giving some
of the distinctive characteristics her in-
dividuality and remarkable incidents in her
life, and at the close read some of her trite
sayings found among her papers:
	“Life’s journey is full of God-given
opportunities to sow and to reap rich har-
vests.”
	“The secret of success is in improving
present opportunities.”
	“Cultivate high and holy aspirations;
Christ said, ‘Be ye perfect even as your
Father in heaven is perfect.’ To be perfect
is just to do the best we know how to do
day by day.”
	“The record of a good life sheds lustre
upon declining years.”
	Miss Prudie Brown recited “The Lady Hil-
degarde,” in a very pleasing voice and
style. Miss Sarah E. F. Price read a
carefully prepared paper “The Progress Wo-
men have Made.” This closed the program;
there was singing and benediction, after
which refreshments were served in the hos-
pitable manner of the Relief Society in all
places and on all similar occasions.
ANNIVERSARY.
	The 7th of March being the anniversary
of the birthday of Mrs. Rachel R. Grant,
president of the Relief Society in the 13th
ward of this city even since its organization,
a party was given in her honor at the
residence of Bishop N. A. Empey, which
was a very happy affair. Many of the old
friends of Sister Grant were present, also
the officers of the society over which she
has presided for so many years, and a num-


ber of the members. Mrs. Empey’s par-
lors were decorated with bright carnations,
and refreshments were served on large and
small tables where guests were seated in
groups, chatting and renewing acquaintan-
ces of by-gone days. President Grant
looked radiantly happy as she sat in the
midst of the feast, and no one would sus-
pect who did not know that her years were
so long upon the earth, for assuredly she
has grown beautiful with age.


