[Column 2]
question which may be pondered upon
with deliberation. Very few if any compre-
hend, even in a small part, what it means to
take possession of the Philippine Islands.
Our women should study it carefully, re-
member that here in this “free Western
land” women have equal rights with men
and should seek to inform themselves on
these momentous subjects of our own day
and time. Ancient history and the wars
of other ages may be and are well worth
study and research, but if one makes her- 
self or himself fairly conversant with this
day, it will be more in keeping with the
spirit of progress of which we are apt to
talk so much and know so little.
	We turn back and applaud the heroes of
the past, military, civic and intellectual,and
neglect those whose lives are interwoven
with the days in which we are living, and
leave it to the future to try to understand
or to accredit those of our own generation.
	As a matter of fact there have been great
men in this century, and greater achieve-
ments in many directions too numerous to
give in a brief article, than in any other
century since the dawn of the Christian era.
	Go over the list of the men whose names
are familiar, and of men and women who
are living today; think of what has been ac-
complished in the century about to close,
and one will find he need not go back to
Greece or Rome or the days of the Crusaders 
or times of chivalry for heroes or heroines.
Current events are worth the closest study,
and if it is expected with the facilities of
this enlightened age to stamp on history’s
page the brightest and most famous record
of advancement in all that is high and
noble, progressive and remarkable, then
the men and women, the boys and girls
now doing battle with life and its enter-
prises must know the living people, the
heroic activities, the brilliant acheivements,
the splendid victories, the thrilling episodes,
as well as the men and women who figured
conspicuously, and whose unparalleled
courage, mental and spiritual, as well as
physical and moral, has made possible the
age extraordinary, surpassing all others in
phenomenal developments, in science, phil-
osophy and all the ’osophies; marvels of the
metaphysical as well as a sublimity of
idealism, and a more positive realism of
common life among the children of men as
it actually exists than the world has ever
known. That there is a great upheaval,
a great crisis approaching no one seems to
doubt who watches the signs of the times,
and especially those filled with inspiration
who write and speak prophetically of
things to come. Justice is to return to
earth and Truth though crushed will rise
again triumphant, and there will be a new
day and a better generation, who will
write and prophesy surpassing what has
ever been since the Savior’s time, and the
lives of the people who keep the laws of
life and health and live righteously will be
prolonged and there will be a chosen peo-
ple who will seek diligently for the
precious treasures of wisdom, knowledge
and understanding that are to be revealed
to the wise and the prudent.


