[Column 2]
possibility of suffrage in both these inferior
territories it would be an insult to the in-
telligence of our women suffragists should
they be suspected of advocating the annex-
ation of a still more inferior country, name-
ly, the Philippines.
	It seems necessary to retrace the events
that led to the first decisive blow in our
controversy with Spain. Suffice it to say
that curiously enough this blow was struck
in another hemisphere, and resulted in a
victory without parallel in the history of
warfare, and the Stars and Stripes floated
over Manila. Thus the exigencies of war
brought us face to face with a question of
which we had never before even dreamed,
and the excitement of victory may be urged
as a partial excuse for having made two
mistakes, first in demanding the island and
second in paying $20,000,000, practically
bearing all the expense of the war, in that
direction, which by debauchery, oppression
and treachery Spain had brought upon her-
self, a transaction without parallel, consider-
ing the character and location of the terri-
tory.
	Now that the enthusiasm of victory has
subsided, we shall have no excuse if we
make a third mistake. Mamia will be re-
tained as a coaling station, an advantage
which could have been secured without the
burden of possession, but what advantage
can be derived from the rest of the islands.
In the first place they are so remote from
the United States that affiliation would be
impossible under the most favorable con-
ditions for the next five hundred years!
Secondly, the resources consist of products
almost wholly extractive or agricultural,
and even though the islands are rich in
such products, what do they offer us that is
not at our very doors, even in our great
northwest? What climate necessary to a
peculiar product that we cannot find some-
where within the boundary of the United
States? Aye, and where great tracts of
fertile land may be had for the asking, with
no increase of burden to our government,
nor additional taxation to our citizens.
	It is said the resources of the islands are
great and trade will be increased, as with
annexation the duties will be abolished;
and what advantage would this be to the
nation with labor in the Philippines at ten
cents per day?
	On the one hand we are seriously con-
sidering the advisability of more adequately
restricting immigration, and on the other
hand we are struggling to annex ten mil-
lions of people at one stroke, whose average
wage level is ten cents per day; a number
it would take years to annex by immigra-
tion. In this situation what becomes of
the principle involved in our protective
policy ?
	We pride ourselves, and justly, upon the
fact that the protective policy in fostering
industry prohibits the competition of cheap
labor, and thus maintains the American
standard of wages. Shall we abandon the
beneficent policy at one stroke? Again, we
all agree that previous immigration has
made this country what it is. Surely these
immigrants have a right to consideration.


