[Column 2]
was then in the Continental Congress, she
said: “I long to hear you have declared an
independency, and by the way in the new
code of laws, which I suppose it will be
necessary for you to make, I desire you
would remember the ladies, and be more
generous to them than your ancestors have
been.” Her language on this subject both
in conversation with the men of her time
and in her letters to correspondents was
strong, and her opposition to the old laws
so determined that she even threatened to
foment rebellion unless the rights of her sex
were secured, and declared women would
not hold themselves bound to obey any
laws in which they had no voice or repre-
sentation.
	It is due to the moral courage of such
women and those of the 19th century with 
whose names we are more familiar, and to
the generous spirit of the men of this West-
ern country that we are privileged to enjoy
political equality. With this advantage
we should be better equipped for the work
along this line, and make ourselves and
this society a power in the political economy
of the State and as a part of the great
body politic throughout the United States,
not forgetting those of our sex deprived of
the ballot who are anxiously looking to us
to help them along these lines of political
liberty and direct representation in the
government.
	May it be our privilege to render noble
service whenever and wherever opportunity
is given, and be ready at all times to stand
by the Constitution of our country, uphold
its laws and honor the flag, and be ready to
defend it from foes within and foes without.
	In conclusion let us pay our tribute of
respect to the General Society of the Daugh-
ters of the Revolution who so generously
extended to Utah the right hand of fellow-
ship, and in the name of the Utah society
through its Regent in her inaugural address
bid them God speed in the magnanimous
work they have so auspiciously under-
taken. And while remembering all its
representatives tender our love especially
to Miss Sarah E. Hunt, its vice president,
who so graciously honored us with her
gentle presence and sweet words of en-
couragement and sympathy, which we shall
never forget during her brief sojourn in
Salt Lake City, the Mecca of the West, in
July 1898.	
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
Regent of Utah Society Daughters of the
	Revolution.
Given at a meeting held January 16 1899.


