[Column 1]
SACRAMENTO BRANCH.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	Some time has elapsed since you have
heard from the Relief Society of Sacramen-
to, yet we have been mindful of you and
the Relief Society throughout Utah, especi-
al mention being made in our prayers fo.
Sister Zina D. H. Young and her counselorsr
	Nothing has occurred of enough interest
to communicate, and our work is slow, yet
we have kept on cheerfully and earnestly,
trusting in the promise that, “where two or
three are met together in my name, there
am I in their midst, and that to bless.”
Experience has taught us that we always
receive more than we ask for. Since the
organization of our society we have been
but few members; true our branch and
society have increased, but the people here
have removed to Utah or Idaho as soon as
circumstances permitted, therefore there
would not until lately be over six sisters
present at a meeting, and owing to the
distance of residence and the circumstances
of the sisters, we thought best to discon-
tinue our Tuesday meeting, and hold but
one a month. That one has been well at-
tended, the sisters bearing strong testimon-
ies to the truth of the work and of the
goodness of God. A few weeks ago we
decided to resume our weekly meetings,
the members having increased and each one
having a zeal for work whereby they might
help roll on the Lord’s work and obtain
great blessings. Three meetings are held
at the home of Sister Fanny Thackham,
the fourth, a testimony meeting, at the
home of one of the aged or sick sisters who
is not privileged to be with us from time to
time, that they may be strengthened and
built up by the testimonies, or comfort we
may be able to give them.
	Last year two quilts made by the sisters
netted the neat sum of eight dollars. Gar-
ments and fancy work are now being
manufactured to be disposed of later on in
a manner not yet decided upon.
	On Saturday 11th inst., the Elders went
among the Saints imparting tidings they
knew would bring joy to every heart,
Apostle and Sister Richards and President
Nye would be with us next day. Can you
dear ones over there who have these privil-
eges so common among you, realize what
it is to us to behold the face of a prophet
or apostle of the Lord? To us who have
been living in the world, groping amid its
darkness, wandering we know not where,
then called from our danger by the clear,
sweet tones of the servants of God as they
teach, us the truths of the Gospel as it has
been restored in the last days, bringing us
from danger into safety, from error into
truth, from death into life, from extreme
darkness into the marvelous light of His
love—indeed the capacity of our hearts
seems much too small to hold such a bless
ing, and our tears of joy flow freely.
	Our esteemed guests were present at
Sunday School. President Nye made a
few remarks to the school. President Rich-
ards followed, speaking more particularly
to the older ones, encouraging them in
Sunday School work. Sister Richards ad-
dressed the children about ten minutes,
telling some of her early experiences and
how they did in the schools in Utah. She
won each little heart and proved herself the
childrens’ friend.
	Apostle Richards was the speaker at both
morning and evening service, great interest
being manifested by the many listeners.

