[Column 2]
The discourse was on the early history of
the Church and the Apostle’s personal
knowledge of the Prophet Joseph Smith,
and he stated that in the beginning of the
Church he was the youngest apostle and
had lived to be the oldest. The encourage-
ment to Saints and messages of love from
the scriptures to sinners, could only fall
from lips used to communicate with the
Lord. His face fairly radiated the light he
had received, and I felt it good to sit and
listen, and was reminded of the 2nd Ephes-
sins, 6th verse, “Hath called us together
to sit together in heavenly places in Christ
Jesus.”
	At 3 p. m. the Relief Society met with
the Elders at the request of Sister Richards
at the home of Sister Eliza Smith. We
had a glorious meeting, the Holy Spirit
was present with us. President Nye,
Apostle Richards and Sister Richards gave
us much valuable and needed instruction,
and we shall endeavor to reach the standard
raised for us that day and profit by the
things learned, never forgetting the dear
faces from Zion. At conference President
Bowman said words of praise for our Re-
lief Society, saying we were not behind any
branch in the state.
	President Nye returned from a trip to
Carson and was with us on Friday 17.
There being three vacancies in the Relief
Society a meeting was called and the fol-
lowing officers confirmed: Sister Jane
Rumel, counselor; Sister Sarah Morgan,
assistant secretary; Sister Annie Carson,
teacher. President Nye in his inimitable
style instructed the mothers as to how they
should bring up and watch over the health
of their children and bring them up in the
kingdom of God, and prophecied we would
grow rapidly and be a tower of strength in
California. After prayer Sister Rumel in-
vited Brothers Nye and Bowman to lunch
which they accepted and partook of just in
time for the former to take the train for his
home in San Francisco.
	That the Heavenly Father will bless us
abundantly and make us a power in wisdom,
knowledge and strength for the helping on
of the great work, made glorious through
truth and revelation, is my wish.
