[Column 2]
We ought to sustain our local presidents
with our presence at meetings, by so doing
union would increase and kind feelings also.
Said Relief Society members should lead
out in good works, should be teachers and
preachers of righteousness. Spoke upon
mothers training their children in a proper
way.
	President Margaret Taylor reported the
Loa Relief Society in good condition, bore
testimony, and expressed a desire to have
the Bishopric visit their meetings.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe said she felt
well and was much pleased to have the 
presidency and brethren attend our confer-
ence and sustain us in our labors. Spoke
of teaching our children more by example
than precept, to teach virtue and not to
leave our sons and daughters subject to
temptation. Spoke of attending our meetings
and sustaining the society work.
	Sister Adalaide M. Adams reported the
Teasdale Relief Society as doing well.
	President Martha Adams reported the
Torrey Relief Society in good running
order. It had lately been organized and all
felt well. 
	Sister Louisa Brown spoke of the society
in early days and of the progress and
growth it had made, also of the opportun-
ities that lay before the young people. En-
couraged mothers to do their duty and be
very careful in their examples before the
young people.
	Sister Sarah A. Robison said she had en-
joyed the conference. Encouraged the sis-
ters to read and study good books and be-
come wise in the principles of the Gospel.
	Sister Leah Blackburn spoke of the bless-
ings that awaited the faithful. Encouraged
the young sisters to be good, true workers
and shun evil at all times. Felt thankful
that the mothers of Zion were worthy of
raising sons who were worthy to bear the
Gospel to the nations of the world.
	Sister Margaret Pace bore testimony to
the truth of the Gospel and spoke of the
fulfillment of prophecy.
	President Sarah G. Meeks reported the
Thurber society in good condition. They
lacked only a few dollars of settling up
their indebtedness on their hall, (which is a
very creditable building for so small a
society.) She said they were united and de-
sired to be progressive in the good
work.
	Sister Nancy Blackburn felt well in the
calling that rested upon her. Spoke of the
blessings the sisters would gain by storing
grain. Encouraged the young people to be
faithful in every calling.
	Sister Elizabeth Jeffry felt very thankful
for the good spirit we had enjoyed, and felt
to ask the Lord to bless every worker in
the society. Felt to sustain those in office
with all her heart.
	President J. S. Coleman was pleased to
listen to the remarks and reports. Called
the attention of the sisters to the ten cent
donation to help defray the expenses of
the General Board in Relief Society work.
Spoke of fasting and prayer in behalf of the
sick among us, and said to observe punctu-
ality in attendance at our meetings.
	President W. E. Robinson felt to appre-
ciate the good words of the sisters, would
ask the Bishops to visit the society and be-
come an aid to them. Encouraged the sis-
ters in the good work they had espoused.
	Closed by singing “Great is the Lord.”
Benediction by President H. M. Hansen.
