[Column 1]
to the children yet unborn along this
heroic line of ancestry.
	Yet so it was, and doubtless there is an
underlying purpose in this; and these 
societies are becoming more and more
numerous and their influence and strength
will correspondingly increase. They are
not, as has been said, “mutual admiration
societies,” nor are they for tea and gossip,
but for closer, fellowship and active service
along the lines of higher views, of united
patriotic efforts for the larger freedom and 
comradeship of all mankind.
	In our work we must strive to give
some object lessons as well as history and
legends for the children, who are only par-
tially acquainted with the facts pertaining
to the establishment of the independence of
our country, or we shall fail in the pur-
poses we expect to achieve. Assuredly it
is the conscientious desire of every woman
in the society (and let us believe it will be
of all who will hereafter become members)
to so engraft the principles of freedom and
right in the souls of the children of these
mountain vales, and stamp upon their lives
and character such lessons in childhood and
youth that no storms upon the voyage of
life, or clamor of heresy, or wars of people
shall ever destroy or uproot the principles 
thus wrought into their souls; but that they
may be transmitted to their posterity unto
the latest generation that may inhabit this 
chosen land of America.
	Without going into details allow me to
state that in my opinion we should collect
from time to time, as we have opportunity,
specimens of workmanship or heirlooms
that may help us to appreciate the past, and
give us better ideas of those primitive times
when the life of the people was more sim-
ple and the great inventions of this age had
not yet become a part of the newer civiliza-
tion. We are not privileged in this respect
as those are in the older states, who are up-
on the stamping ground of the great his-
toric battles; and many relics of that valiant
age are handed down in the old Colonial
families, or collected and preserved in 
museums and such like places for the bene-
fit of the public. From these scenes and
associations we in this Western land are far
removed geographically, but we may ob-
tain from relatives and friends some of these
precious mementoes.
	If we cannot surround ourselves with
such object lessons there is active work we
can do in other directions, which will open 
up to us undoubtedly, and meantime we
can become more familiar with the past his-
tory of our own country by lectures, study
and discussion in our society, and acquaint-
ing ourselves with biographies of the men
and women who figured conspicuously in
affairs of this nation and its struggle for
independence.
	The Declaration of Independence itself is
a subject for study, probably we do not re-
member even the names of the signers of
that sacred instrument of progress in the
world’s history.
	As women we cannot be too grateful
and reverent to the memory of such women
as Abagail Adams, of revolutionary dis-
tinction, who so long ago when woman’s
legal rights had not been even agitated as a
part of civilization, urged her husband in
the most emphatic language to accord to
women justice in the establishing of the new
government. She was the first American
woman who thus protested against the in-
equality of sex in political matters. Writ-
ing to her husband in March 1776, who

