springs, of young love and the prattle of little children. Lock securely away all of your heartaches, failures, and disappointments, for, if you have lived wisely, you have already profited by them, and have no further need of them. "The world is so full of a number of things, I'm sure we should all be as happy as queens," or much, much happier. There is music—so much of it, all kinds of it; so, with more time Page 94 and permanently. At your disposal, listen to good music with understanding and appreciation. As you listen, seek to understand the fountain from which it flows. Next time you listen to Handel's greatest inspiration, The Messiah, be aware of the fact that he wrote the entire work in three weeks, with such a flood of inspiration that it seemed "the gates of heaven were opened" to him. Brahm's German Requiem was the result of the composer's deep sorrow over the death of his mother. Did you ever feel an urge to paint a picture? If so, do not allow yourself to pass the afternoon. Of your life without the enriching experience of handling a palette and a brush. You may never paint a picture that you would be proud todisplay on your wall, but you won't know until you have tried. The chief delight of trying to paint is what is does to your powers of observation. When you study the landscape through the eyes of an artist, you will be astonished to see many things that you have never noticed before. So many changing colors as the days and seasons roll by. Such variation of sky and clouds. A tree ceases to be just a tree and becomes an object of intricate imagery, bearing lacy filigree in summer's fulfillment. If you have no disposition to paint on canvas, why not work with the great Master Painter and create a living picture in your own back yard? If you have never felt the GOOD AFTERNOON, MY LADY cool, prolific earth ooze through your fingers while you plant seedlings in the spring, you have missed a satisfying experience. If you have never watched the azalea and magnolia yield in their glory, you have missed a closeness to the infinite. I have a friend who built her greenhouse with her own feminine hands. Her garden from _ early springtime until winter's blanketing is a place of beauty. She transplants flowers from the mountainside and glenns, and her garden is a "memory grove' of friends who have given her cuttings of their own plantings. This friend of mine is a friend of many, because of her gifts of flow-. Ers. From her own back yard she creates many living pictures. She has unique and original ways of arranging her flowers, and in her little community, every wedding, each anniversary and bereavement, is sure to be remembered by Mary. Many a shut-in has known the fragtance of springtime, the rose scent of midsummer, and the glory of autumn because Mary remembered. T the age of forty-five, Cynthia discovered that she had a way with words. Her past experiences, intermingled with a rare understanding of people and things, prepared her loom for the weaving of word pictures, and she has found joy in creative writing. It is amazing what pleasures one can gain during a few minutes each day in the public library. Its doors stand open and offer a daily feast of any preferred variety of food for the mind and spirit at no cost whatsoever. For anyone who hung- 95 ers for adventure, travel, or