[WomansExponent | Vol25 | 1896 | Unknown | Issue: 14 | Title: AT HOME | Author: Unknown]

AT HOME
Wednesday, Jan. 20, 1897.
From 3 P. M.

“Old friends and true: dear friends though new:
Come join me on mv natal day;
Through fifty years, of hopes and fears,
Through all my earthly joys and tears,
You’ve been, with God, my staff and stay.”
—ELLIS R. SHIPP.
	So read the dainty card that announced
the jubilee year of our esteemed friend.
	In response her friends came, about sixty
in number. At the door they were met by
her charming daughter Ellis; and further
in the hall of her spacious dwelling were
greeted by the hostess herself, looking
beautiful and radiant with happiness.
	The day was damp and cold without, but
within was warmth, a genial feeling and
the odor of many flowers; flowers on the
mantles, in the hall windows and other
conspicuous places, making one almost think
Summer had come again.
	These beautiful emblems of love were
the gift of Dr. Shipp’s children.
Accompanying them was this beautiful
sentiment:
“Mother dear we love you.


[Column 1]
	We half believe you know not how well.
Would you fully know? Then measure
out your love, and take a tenth; to love 
more is quite impossible. Capacity to love
comes with our years. Poor consolation
though it be, we are coming to know how
much we should have loved you.
	These flowers will fade—
		Not so our love for thee,
	Deeper, stronger will it grow
		Through all eternity.”
	The spirit of love reigned supreme while
each one greeted our hostess, wishing her 
many more happy birthdays and that she 
would continue to look young and graceful 
as now, though going down the shady side 
of the hill of life.
	Some time was whiled away in pleasant 
conversation, old friends meeting each
other, new friends greeting each other, the
voices of the aged and the young blending
musically together, and over and through 
it all a sweet feeling of love and peace.
	By request a beautiful poem written for 
Dr. Shipp by her aunt, who is much
younger than herself, was read by Miss
Ellis Shipp. Also a loving tribute from 
the pen of Emily H. Woodmansee was read
by Annie Wells Cannon.
	A few choice gems from the heart of our
honored sister, Zina D. H Young, were
expressed in love and praise to our friend. 
	Sister M. Isabella Horne followed, speak-
ing feelingly of some of the trials through
which Sister Shipp had passed, and pro-
phetically portrayed a future more bright, 
more happy than the past.
	Sister B. W. Smith added words of bless-
ing and encouragement. Dainty refresh-
ments were served by the younger members
of the family, while many were the wishes 
expressed that the future might be more 
bright and blessed for the one whom we
had met to honor. Sister E. B. Wells of 
the EXPONENT read a poem full of love; 
and expressions of praise were made by 
others present.
	Some of the responses to the graceful 
invitation were expressed in verse and read
during the afternoon by the authors them-
selves.

