Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest of Life By Lella Marler Hoggan KEEP GROWING "Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul, As the swift seasons roll! Leave thy low-vaulted past! Let each new temple, nobler than the last, Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast, Till thou at length art free, Leaving thine out-grown shell by life's unresting sea." ?Oliver Wendell Holmes. BELIEF in eternal progression, through obedience to law, is the urge that inspires all true Latter-day Saints to a course of study and action ever upward and onward. There is no half-way mark. The law of the universe is "grow or die," "use or lose," "inaction means decay." Unless we use the powers vested in us they shall diminish and slip out of our fingers. There is no standing still in nature or human nature. We must go forward or we shall, of necessity, fall behind. Everything that impedes the forward movement of progress is pushed aside and cast into the discard. The human race is moving ahead, the trend of civilization is forever upward. It is divinely planned that we shall keep growing. The poet Longfellow, when asked how he retained his youth and continued to write with the same inspiration and beauty of earlier years, pointed to a blossoming apple-tree in the yard nearby, and reminded his friends that the beauty and fragrance of the apple bloom did not diminish with the years. "Every year," said he, "that tree adds a little new wood to its growth. I take a lesson from that tree." Are we adding a little new wood, a little strength and beauty, to our personality from year to year? Are we reaching out and up to that ideal of perfection set for our eternal joy? Like Mary of old do we "sit at the Master's feet" to be taught in his loving wisdom, or, are we like Martha "cumbered with much serving"?. If an angel of the Lord were to call at our humble abode each day at twilight, would we be satisfied to report FOR THE TREASURE CHEST repeatedly "Lord, I have just kept house today'? Real and enduring satisfactions come from growth and development; a knowledge, as Stuart Sherman says, of being fully and adequately used. Ellis Parker Butler says, "The most important business of life, is making the most of the best that is in us." The human heart is forever in quest of truth, of self-realization. "What is worth while?" we ask ourselves, "What, in the end, will bring us. The greatest joy?" Mormonism has put the question, "What is the purpose of life from God's point of view?" Where can we find a higher ideal? "The very farthest star But rims a sea of other stars That stretches just as far. The greatest joy of joys shall be The joy of going on.' ?Sam Walter Foss. The easy path leads into the valley of disappointed hopes. Good intentions, never carried into action, do not advance our progress. If we become too occupied with work-aday tasks, we unconsciously "go to seed" early. Then, after a while, we find ourselves trudging along the uneventful path of regret, seeking to rejuvenate, longing for the "Fountain of youth." If we would keep young, we must refresh and renew ourselves often, mentally as well as physically. Growth and development are the magic keepers of the gates of life, who close the door against failure and old age. Surely growth is the secret of eternal youth, and "The glory of God is intelligence," even as the Prophet Joseph Smith told us. In the Improvement Era for February, 1933, Jay B. Nash, in an article on leisure, summed up his phil421 osophy of youth. Here are a few of his clear cut sentences: "People grow old by deserting their ideals. Years wrinkle the skin; but to give up enthusiasm wrinkles the soul. You are as young as your faith, as old as your doubt; as young as your confidence, as old as your fear; as young as your hope, as old as your despair. To keep young means to keep on living?it means meeting life." Years ago that great teacher, Dr. White, said, "I want my children to drink from a running brook and not from a stagnant pool." Is the stream of our life flowing onward into the infinite sea of truth and beauty, or is it stagnating in a murky bog? Has it lost its sparkling joy, its rippling song of laughter? Can we not clear away the debris that impedes its forward movement, that it may go on its way carrying life and hope to the blossoming flowers on the sunny slopes and in the woodland valleys? IF we do not replenish the fire on the hearth we soon have only dead ashes and a spent blaze. We can not draw out of the bank more money than we have deposited. We take out of life only as much as we have put into it. _Ralph Parlette, in The University of Hard Knocks, reminds us that even if we go to the ocean we can not carry away more than a pint of water, if we bring only a pint container; while we may obtain a gallon from the smallest mountain stream, if we carry with us a gallon measure. We can gather unto ourselves only that portion of eternal values that we are prepared to appreciate and use. The Gospel of Christ is free to all of the children of men, but it will save and exalt us only to the extent that we are able to appreciate it and incorporate it into our lives. We can claim the opulence of the 422 universe if we are prepared to take advantage of it. But we can not claim even a pauper's share if we are unable to enjoy it and use it. ANY member of our church who conscientiously follows the courses of study in our various organizations, from year to year, can not help but advance in knowledge and in power. Are we taking advantage of these lessons? Are we living the gospel truths as fast as they are revealed to us? Or, are we too busy to gain eternal salvation? Have we bargained with life for a penny," because it was easier to pay the price? Jessie Rittenhouse' little verse runs something like this: "I bargained with Life for a penny Only to learn dismayed, That any wage I had asked of Life Life would have paid." The women who permit their interests to narrow down to a ladle, a mop, and a dusting pan, are cheating themselves. They are shutting out of their lives a wealth of satisfaction and joy. They are defeating the measure of their creation. Why should we let the years interfere with our high hopes? Old age is only a phantom shuffling along at our elbow, trying to intimidate us and undo our heroic resolutions to meet life bravely. If we have kept faith with ourselves we need have no fear of her. We can snatch the mask from her weary eyes and laugh RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE her to scorn. For after all, what is this little span of time in the ocean of eternity. The spirit knows no impediment to progress. Can we not claim our own? Can we not echo Pan's glad shout of joy? "I am Youth, Eternal Youth! I am the sun rising, I am Poets singing, I am the New World. I am a little bird that has broken out of the egg I am Joy, Joy, Joy." The Master gave us the divine ideal to struggle toward when he 'said, "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father in heaven is perfect." (Matt. 5:48) And Joseph Smith, the Prophet, verified this illuminating ideal in these words, "As God now is, man may become," and Lehi, the ancient prophet, said, "Man is, that he may have joy." With such a promise and such an ideal, is it not imperative that we shall accept the Master's challenge to "Seek first the kingdom of heaven and His righteousness," that all other things may be added unto us. Growth, eternal youth, The star of light that gleams Above the mountain peaks of truth, beckons us upward and forever onward. In grateful appreciation for so rare a treasure let us count it with our priceless keepsakes.