Happy Mothers By Marba C. Josephson
WHEN Johnny starts "one, free, five," the time is ripe for him to learn to count. While it is mother's duty to reenforce school training, it is her joy to be the secret mover in fanning into a flame the spark of interest for the informal learning of life. Hers is the training of the child's spontaneous reaction to the magic of his experiences. These ideas that he gains informally are frequently the ones he learns best. His counting, his learning of colors; his acquisition of new words can be made fascinating games. While he swings, he may be encouraged to count. Mother may let him run errands while she counts. Later she may reverse the procedure and have him do the counting for himself as she listens. If, in these days of depression, pennies are procurable the child can learn money values along with his counting: five pennies are needed to make a nickel. If he is early trained to think of the nickel as five pennies, he may learn to respect the value of money more. As Mary dusts the books, she may cheer herself and speed the work by counting the number of red-backed books, the green-bound volumes, and the blue-colored ones. Colors are fun to learn. Mary learns for the first time that the sky is blue. Her discovery amounts to nothing less than a revelation. When she realizes that the grass is green; sunflowers yellow, roses red, she will thrill to that knowledge. In teaching colors, one succeeds better by using her directions. Two pronounced shades at a time. The contrast seemingly emphasizes the distinction. Red and blue combine easily; green and yellow also. Mother may draw an apple or a ball. With red crayon or water color, she or the child may color it. A bluebird, symbol of happiness, aptly typifies heaven's own blue. Yellow may be represented by a lemon, and a leaf will illustrate green. When the pictures have been painted, a thumbtack will attach the sheet to a convenient wallboard for ready reference. _ Mother may carbon pictures to have the children color according to In order to develop self-reliance and to test reading ability, she may print directions on the first or second grader's papers and leave him in charge of the younger ones. The practice of allowing one of the children to assume the management is good for increasing a sense of responsibility. The dictionary should be introduced early into the lives of all boys and girls. This book helps so much and is such a good friend that youngsters need to feel at home with it. Even the second grader can be shown how to find the meaning of words. If children learn the joy of words early in life, they are halfway on the road to exact self-expression. Exact self-expression leads to better communication of ideas. Better communication opens the door for greater understanding and therefore makes possible greater happiness.
HAPPY MOTHERS
Activity games are exceptional for their informal teaching value: "I put my right hand in, I put my right hand out, I give my right hand a shake, shake, shake, And turn myself about." This activity, repeated with the left hand, the right and the left foot, serves a double purpose. The fun of the game as an activity emphasizes the need for learning right and left. The game song, "Here We Go Round the Mulberry Bush" helps the children learn eagerly the days of the week. The game also emphasizes the necessity of working to a schedule in order to accomplish anything. Unconscious ideals and standards long before they fully understand the significance of the words. In later years these words will come involuntarily to mind and guide the youth away from evil. When mother takes the children on their hikes, besides training them to use their eyes for the gathering of flowers and the sighting of birds, she may query them on the directions: east, west, north, south. She may point out the colors, noting the great variety and different values of the same colors. The moral lessons learned informally are usually doubly impressive. When in a fit of anger, Mary has hurt her playmate, the lesson of self-control can be taught?by mother's controlling herself and in a quiet, respectful way leading Mary to her room. If Mary is sober enough by this time, mother can talk to her. The singing of songs in the. Home will aid the children in forming. If, however, the fever is still raging, mother must leave her until she has quietened. Mother's self-control must be exercised that she may deal firmly, but, oh, so gently, with the wrong-doer. By helping grow flowers and vegetables, the children learn the care of their own plants and are less liable to make havoc among the neighbor's choice blooms. The children develop early a property sense that will deter them when they are tempted to trespass on another's land. This respect for the rights of others is tremendously important. Particularly nowadays when crime among young people is alarmingly increasing, we parents of young children should be doubly careful to teach the distinction between "thine" and "mine." One helpful way of forming this habit of distinguishing between possessions is by insisting that the children ask one another for permission to use toys which are not their own private property. The-insistence on this particular request takes considerable time and energy to enforce. The impress made early in life, however will prove of vital importance when the children reach adolescence and are tempted to take possessions belonging to some one else. The informal ways of teaching are legion?and legion are the results. If mother's heart be easily satisfied concerning her child, the results will be as dragon's teeth sown against the child's happy development. However, if mother's heart beat quickly and eagerly for her child, the results will be defenders of the child's integrity and attendants of his growth into a helpful leader of society.