7 EDITORIAL "Handicraft for Every Woman" FoR years the Relief Society General Board has been anxious to give concrete assistance to the Handwork Department. Now with great pleasure we announce the General Board has issued a book, "Handicrafts for Every Woman," prepared by Mrs. Glenn Johnson Beeley. The volume is full of most valuable suggestions, not only for making new articles but for making over old things into useful and beautiful articles. The book is lavishly illustrated, the paper and binding are excellent. In the Foreword President Robison says, " 'Work and Business' was the first concrete activity of the Relief Society. This was in response to a definite need. During the ninetythree years of the organization, this feature has proved to be one of the fundamentals as a social contact and as a source of revenue. No one can estimate the amount of service to humanity rendered through this unique part of the program. The most advanced educators today attest the soundness of its principles, a correlation of the head and hand. "The Relief Society has kept in step with the march of progress, heading the call for adjustment to new conditions and meeting the needs of an expanding program. We must hold fast to the things which have been tried by experience and found valuable, and we must be ready to accept new ideas and principles which changing conditions make necessary. This is the law of development and advancement." The book is divided into four parts: Part One: THE USES AND VALUE OF HANDICRAFTS Cultural Values Art in the Home Art in Business Handicraft Hobbies The Mental Hygiene Value of Handicrafts Part Two: Some Basic PRINCIPLES Applied Art Principles of Design Color Inez K. Allen Ida P. Beal Belle S. Spafford Donna Durrant Sorensen 446 Part. Three: MATERIALS AND MeTHOops Household Crafts: Decorative Floor Finishes Decorative Finishes for Walls Painting and Decorative Furniture and Woodwork Upholstering Furniture Slip Covers Home-lighting?Lamp Shades Dyeing?Batik Embroidery Knitting Crochet Standard Handicrafts: Block Printing Linoleum Cuts Stenciling Pottery and Cement Handicraft Wood Carving Small Carving, Bone, Ivory Basketry Hand Made Rugs Metal Craft Lacquer ' Solderless Jewelry Leather Craft Modern Materials in Handicrafts: Gesso Composition Board Linoleum Blue Printing Wax Crayons Cellophane Flexwood Wall Paper the use of leisure. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Attic and Junk Room?Their Possibilities: Old Felt Hats Old Lace Picture Frames Decorative Papers. Tricks of the Trade: Tools and Brushes Do You Know? Part Four: Sources or HELP Community Projects Art Magazines and Periodicals. Bibliography Handicrafts Supply Houses List of Publishers The author, Mrs. Beeley, a member of the General Board of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, has done some outstanding work in handicrafts at the University of Utah and at the Civic Center. She has studied at home and abroad. Not only will this volume be of great use in our Relief Society organization, but also in the home. Much is being said now regarding The book will be a boon to direct many in the valuable use. Of their leisure time. It will promote family solidarity, for boys and girls and parents can find in it suggestions for hobbies that will bring all together in a common interest. Price $1.50. Room 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City.