Lesson Department (For First Week in December) Theology and Testimony LESSON III The Temple at Nauvoo 1. The City of Nauvoo. Nauvoo may properly be regarded as the "miracle city" of America; indeed, of the world. Within a period of five years it grew from half a dozen small shacks into the largest and most beautiful city of the state of Illinois. While it is true that a few other cities equally as large as Nauvoo have sprung up within even shorter periods of time, here the comparison ends. The discovery of gold in western America, for example, has repeatedly brought cities into existence almost over night. Goldfield and Tonopah, Nevada, are good examples. These cities, however, were built by men crazed with the thought of wealth. They were thrown together with feverish speed, each individual trying to get ahead of his neighbor. Gambling halls, pool rooms, saloons, and other dives of vice were among the first to appear. Law and order were largely ignored for the "needs" of the moment. Cities such as these were truly "camps," doomed to disappear after they had served the requirements of the hour. 2. Nauvoo, on the other hand, was built by a people who loved the Lord, and where every ambition was to serve him and bring about a reign of eternal peace. There was no thought of worldly wealth or material gain; each individual was his brother's helper; protected sin and indulgence were unknown; and the city was constructed to remain. 3. The very site of Nauvoo was purchased on long time payments. The saints had recently been exiled" from Missouri, where they were robbed and plundered of practically everything they owned. Many of them were so completely destitute that they had to be transported to Illinois by their friends. But with a courage unknown except to those who are fired by a testimony of the Christ, the Mormon people, impoverished and: almost without food, went fearlessly forward to the building of a city?to be better and more beautiful than anything that had been built before. And right in the midst of the city, and overlooking its principal residential section, a commanding position was reserved for its temple. 4, Within a year after its beginning, Nauvoo had a population of three thousand, and six years later, at the time of the western exodus, nearly twenty thousand. The site was a most beautiful one. The great Mississippi swept around it on three sides in a broad meandering curve. Near 'the river the land was only a few feet above its surface, but toward the east it gradually rose to a height of several hundred feet to the level of the so-called prairie land beyond. The temple was to be built at the crest of the hill, and the city principally below. 5. Asa result of well-planned cooperative efforts, building materials were brought from far and near, and a truly beautiful city appeared, almost as if by magic. The residential LESSON DEPARTMENT section was laid out in rectangular blocks, by streets running principally east-west and _ northsouth. At the close of five years Nauvoo contained hundreds of homes of a type that would grace any modern city, beautifully, substantially, and in some cases even ornately built. It was Illinois' largest city, and without doubt its most attractive one. 6. Earlier Efforts at Temple Building. Already the saints had built and dedicated a temple at Kirtland, in which the Lord Jesus Christ and other heavenly personages appeared. (D. And C., section 110) Probably more spiritual blessings were poured out on the saints in the Kirtland temple than at any other place. This privilege, however, was enjoyed by the people of God for scarcely more than two years, when they were compelled by. The hand of violence to abandon their temple and seek refuge in an unkindly state (Missouri) nearly a thousand miles to the westward. 7. Even earlier than this, and before the temple at Kirtland was begun, the Lord made known that a temple should be reared in Zion, at Independence, Jackson County, Missouri. (D. And C. 57:3) The site was dedicated in solemn assembly but for various reasons, principally the defection of the Latter-day Saints, the temple has not been constructed to this day. The saints, however, look forward with confident hope to its building in the future. 8. Shortly after the Prophet and several of the leading brethren reached Missouri from Kirtland in the early spring of 1838, a revelation was received in which Far West was designated as a central gathering place for the saints and the location of a temple to be built to the Most High. According to divine instruction, the corner stones were placed July 4, 1838. (See D. And C.., 449 section 115) The injunction was also given to re-commence the work April 26, 1839. (D. And C. 115:10; 118:5) Pursuant to this instruction, a number of the brethren assembled at the temple site under cover of darkness in the early morning of the last-named date, sang songs, delivered exhortations, and began the work of laying the foundation stones. Almost immediately thereafter the few saints still remaining in Missouri left their homes for Illinois. 9. Beginning of the Temple at Nauvoo. Undismayed by their enforced abandonment of the temple at Kirtland, and their inability to construct temples at Independence and Far West, the saints, upon arriving at Nauvoo, almost immediately laid plans for the erection of a temple at that place. As early as October 3, 1840, the Prophet, in a sermon delivered before the general conference of the Church at Nauvoo, "Spoke of the necessity of building a 'House of the Lord' in this place. Whereupon it was Resolved: That the saints build a house for the worship of God." (History of the Church, Vol. IV, p. 205) Reynolds Cahoon, Elias Higbee, and Alpheus Cutler were named as the building committee. It was also resolved that work begin within ten days. Ina general epistle to the Church issued under date of January 15, 1841, the First Presidency announced that "The Temple of the Lord is in process of erection here, where the saints will come to worship the God of their fathers, according to the order of his house and the powers of the Holy Priesthood." (History of the Church, Vol. IV, p. 269) 10. Baptism for the Dead. The subject of baptism for the dead was first made known to the saints in a sermon delivered by the Prophet at the funeral service of Elder Seymour Brunson, August 10, 1840. 450 The following statement was contained in an epistle written by the Prophet to the Apostles then in Great Britain: "I presume the doctrine of 'baptism for the dead' has ere this reached your ears, and may have raised some inquiries in your minds respecting the same. I first mentioned the doctrine in' public when preaching the funeral sermon of Brother Seymour Brunson; and have since then given general instructions in the church on the subject. The saints have the privilege of being baptized for those of their relatives who are dead, whom they believe would have embraced the gospel, if they had been privileged with hearing it, and who have received the Gospel in the spirit through the instrumentality of those who have been comnimissioned to preach to them while in prison." (History of the Church, Vol. IV, p. 231) 11. For slightly more than a year after this doctrine was revealed, the saints were privileged to perform the ordinance of baptism for the dead in the Mississippi river, but this was withdrawn as soon as a baptismal font was completed in the Nauvoo temple. Indeed, as early as October 3, 1841, the Prophet announced: 'There shall be no more baptisms for the dead until the ordinance can be attended to in the Lord's House; and the church shall not hold another General Conference until they can meet in said house. For thus saith the Lord.".12. Revelation Concerning the Temple. On the 19th of January, 1841; some five months after the Prophet first announced the doctrine of baptism for the dead, the Lord gave a revelation touching various phases of the subject. (D. And C. 124:25-49) The revelation is particularly explicit concerning the necessity of a baptismal font (verses 29-36). The Lord accepted the location already selected for the temple and promised that he would show Joseph all things pertaining to the house and the priesthood thereof (verses 42-43). He further declared that if the people would hearken unto his voice, they would not be moved out of their place (verse 45). He then made the consoling declaration that when the sons of men go forth with all their might to fulfill the commandments of God, but are prevented by their enemies from performing the work, the Lord will accept their offering and require no more at their hands. (verse 49)
13. Laying of the Corner Stones. Spurred on to the necessity of immediate action by this revelation, the people of the church were quick to respond, and on the 6th day of April, 1841?the eleventh anniversary of the organization of the church?the corner stones of the temple were laid with impressive ceremony. This was a gala day for Nauvoo. At twelve o'clock noon, a procession of fourteen companies of the "Nauvoo Legion" together with two volunteer companies from Iowa arrived at the temple ground and enclosed it in a hollow square. Lieutenant-General Joseph Smith was in command. The interior of the square was occupied by a host made up of staff officers, guards, distinguished visitors, the band, the choir, men, women and children. After an appropriate address by Sidney Rigdon, the architects lowered the southeast corner stone and the Prophet said: "This principal corner stone in representation of the First Presidency is now duly laid in honor of the Great God; and may it there remain until the whole fabric is completed; and may the same be accomplished speedily; that the saints may have a place to worship God, and the Son of Man have where to lay his head." (History of the Church, Vol. IV, p. 329)
LESSON DEPARTMENT
14. Dedication of the Baptismal Font. Thereafter work on the temple must have gone forward at a rapid pace for only seven months later, November 8, 1841, the font was ready for dedication. President Brigham Young was the spokesman. The font is described as oval-shaped, sixteen feet long by twelve feet wide, made of tongued and grooved pine timber, and mounted with a cap of beautifully carved woodwork of antique design. The whole was supported by twelve oxen, their heads, shoulders and forefeet projecting from beneath. (See History of the Church, Vol. IV, p. 446)*
15. The First Temple Baptisms. A most interesting thing occurred on the 21st of November, 1841. At noon of this day the Twelve met in council at the residence of President Brigham Young. At four o'clock they repaired to the baptismal font in the basement of the temple, where Elders Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, and John Taylor baptized about forty persons for their dead. The confirmations were made by Elders Willard Richards, Wilford Woodruff, and George A. Smith. These were the first baptisms for the dead in the temple font. Thereafter from time to time until the saints left Nauvoo, baptisms for the dead were performed in the temple. (See History of the Church, Vol. IV, p. 454) Thus for four and one-half years before the temple was fully completed and dedicated, ordinance work was in progress within it.
16. Completion of the Temple. The work of completing the temple progressed slowly but without marked interruption, and this fact becomes the more surprising when it is considered that as the temple rose, opposition to the church heightened.
*This was a temporary font and was later replaced.
The people contributed generously of both their time and money, chiefly in the form of tithes. A short time before his death, Patriarch Hyrum Smith, acting as one of the temple committee, asked the women of the church to assist by giving a weekly donation of one cent apiece to be used principally for the purchase of glass and nails. It is recorded that the women were so anxious to assist that nearly all paid a year's subscription in advance.
17. But the Prophet and his brother Hyrum were not permitted to see the completion of the building. On the 27th of June, 1844, these men of God were cut down by the assassins' bullets at Carthage, Illinois. The saints, although temporarily stupefied by the loss of their leaders, soon regained their composure and within two weeks work was resumed on the temple.
18. On the 25th of May, 1845, the capstone was laid with impressive ceremony; President Brigham Young was in charge. In October of 1845 the building was sufficiently well advanced that large assemblies were held in it. During the latter part of 1845 and the early part of 1846, many of the saints received their blessings and endowments in the temple, even though the exodus from Nauvoo was already in progress. The temple was publicly dedicated in the presence of about three hundred people on April 1, 1846. By September of the same year it was in the hands of mobs. Meanwhile the saints who had toiled and sacrificed to build it were making their way westward toward a new refuge in the Rocky Mountains. Two years later the temple fell prey to an act of incendiarism and in 1850 its blackened walls were leveled to the ground by a passing tornado. Thereafter it was regarded as public property and carried away.
Suggestions for Discussion and Review
1. In what respects may Nauvoo be regarded as one of the most remarkable cities in America? Why could it not have been built by ordinary people?
2. Have someone describe in detail the conditions under which work was begun on the temple foundations at Far West, April 26, 1839.
3. How do you account for the fact that when the saints were prevented from building a temple at
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Far West, they immediately began one at Nauvoo? 4, Have someone read and explain paragraph 49 of the 124th section of the Doctrine and Covenants. Cite illustrations in which the principle probably applies. 5. Why in your judgment will the Lord not acknowledge baptisms for the dead made outside the temple? 6. Why did the saints continue to work on the Nauvoo temple when they knew they would not be permitted to use it?
Teachers' Topics (For November 1935)
PROVERBS 23:29-32
"Who hath woe? Who hath sorrow? Who hath contentions? Who hath babbling? Who hath wounds without cause? Who hath redness of eyes? "They that tarry long at the wine; they that go to seek mixed wine. * * * "At the last it biteth like a serpent, and stingeth like an adder." ?Proverbs 23:29-32.
"Behold, verily thus saith the Lord unto you, in consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation. "That inasmuch as any man drinketh wine or strong drink among you, behold it is not good, neither meet in the sight of your Father. * * * "And.. Again, strong drinks are not for, the belly, but for the washing of your bodies." ?Doctrine and Covenants, Section 89:4-8.
FROM a Church standpoint what should be our attitude toward liquor?beer, light wine, hard liquor? From a scientific and health standpoint what should be our attitude toward liquor?beer, light wine, hard liquor? From a public safety standpoint what should be our attitude toward drinking and the operation of high-powered machinery? Railroad companies require all locomotive engineers to be teetotalers. This ruling, together with the fact that railroad trains run on definite tracks, lessens hazards to both those who travel by
Train and to pedestrians who are able to avoid rails and moving trains. What is the requirement, if there is one, regarding drinking and the drivers of public buses, trucks, etc. What is the requirement, if there is one, regarding drinking and the private citizen who drives his own car? The American Business Men's Research Foundation of Chicago, reports that "Liquor was charged with an estimated total of 73,308 motor traffic deaths, or an average of slightly more than 20 a day for the last ten years?1925-1935.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
"But I Only Had One Drink"
"An analysis of 119 automobile accidents, involving the death of 216 persons, made in Milwaukee by Herman A. Heise, M. D., and published in the Journal of the American Medical Association shows that it is not primarily the obvious 'drunk' who constitutes a major road menace, but the 'drinking driver-?the man who thinks he can drive as well after a little nip.
"Dr. Heise found that the alcohol accidents, mostly after little nips, were responsible for injury or death to more than two people per accident, while the non-alcohol accidents involved only slightly more than one person per accident. There is a direct relationship between the severity of the accident and the amount of alcohol; from which the only-one-little-nipper may draw the conclusion that he is relatively unlikely to kill anyone, but may merely maim someone for life.
"Considering a person sober as long as he can still walk and talk is responsible for the small value of present-day statistics regarding the relationship of alcohol to automobile accidents."
(For December 1935)
"He that refuseth instruction (or correction) despiseth his own soul: But he that heareth (obeyeth) reproof getteth understanding." ?Proverbs 15:32.
All of us are very well acquainted with our growth physically, but sometimes it takes many years for us to be cognizant of the growth of our own soul. It is rather difficult for us to state exactly when such an inward process took place, but probably by a careful probing of our memories we might discover that a certain degree of growth took place when we received and acknowledged a justified and well-given reproof. It is the mark of the small individual to hedge, to justify, and to condone her behavior after she has received deserved criticism. The broad individual says, "I deserved the reproof; I shall mend my ways," and in thus saying gives her spirit room for further growth and develops her own understanding. The above Proverb deals with the acceptor or receiver of the correction and involves a very definite responsibility as such. Likewise there is a responsibility devolving upon the one who administers the reproof. In order to stimulate proper action the Individual giving the reproof should have some authority of position, or age, or experience to give weight to the correction and certainly the reproof should be given always in the spirit of love and advancement. We have in the story of Job an outstanding example of a man who "was righteous in his own eyes," and when he received reproof from the Lord, acknowledged his own errors by saying: "I know that thou canst do everything, and that no thought can be withholden from thee. "Who is he that hideth counsel without knowledge? Therefore have I uttered that I understood not; things too wonderful for me, which I knew not. "I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear: but now mine eye seeth thee. "Wherefore I abhor myself, and repent in dust and ashes.'"'?Job 42: 2-6.
The last verse illustrates perfectly the attitude of Job in receiving correction. Not only had he advanced his own soul's growth by his acceptance of reproof but his understanding had been greatly enlarged by his trying experiences?his understanding of disappointment, his frustration in life's accumulations, his sorrow in the loss of his immediate family and his personal knowledge of great physical pain. In Job's case not only did he triumph in his growth of understanding but "the Lord gave Job twice as much as he had before." That understanding was considered a thing greatly to be desired, and was acknowledged by Solomon when he said: "Wisdom is the principal thing, therefore get wisdom:
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
But with all thy getting, get understanding." Any experience, be it pleasant or otherwise, in which we definitely further the growth of our soul and increase our breadth of vision in becoming a more understanding individual, is not to be shunned.
1. Discuss the steps by which we get understanding after accepting reproof.
2. Why "Happy is the man.... That getteth understanding?"
3. In the administering of correction in the home what is the proper way of procedure for the mother in order for her to retain the love and confidence of her children?
Literature (For Third Week in December)
ADVENTURES IN READING
Soul Harbors
"Men rise on the stepping stones Of their dead selves to higher things." ?Tennyson.
Art is man's work as it imitates life?its outward acts, its mental processes, its spiritual aspirations. It is the understanding of life that makes man wise; it is the idealization of life that consoles and sustains man. "The true end of art and poetry especially is like that of religion to uphold the heart with high. Inspiration and consolation." Poets are the torchbearers of idealism.
Soul Harbors. A Vision of the Ideal
Literature has recorded on its pages the adventures of many heroes whose quests have been "the ideal." As gallant knights, as lonely pilgrims, as humble poets they have pressed ever onward and upward. But few knights have found the much sought Eldorado; very few
Pilgrims have crossed the icy tracts to be greeted by the welcome cry "Excelsior"; and fewer still are the poets who have been invited to the court of the king to sing an immortal song. Yet ever and anon dreams and ideals have brought to man the glory that evidences character, "What I aspired to be and was not comforts me." As St. Paul expressed the philosophy of idealism: "But we all, with open face beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed into the same image from glory to glory."
Tennyson?His Relation to Modern Life
Alfred Tennyson has been styled the epitome of all that is best in Victorianism. Born in the year 1809, the marvelous year of the English-
LESSON DEPARTMENT
speaking world, the year that Lincoln, Darwin, Edwin Fitzgerald, and Gladstone were born Tennyson participated in the chief events of the reign of Queen Victoria. John Morley speaking of this era says, "A great wave of humanity, of benevolence, of desire for improvement, of philosophical and theological speculation poured itself forth." Science, invention, and a changing commercialism were revolutionizing society. The need of a deeper insight into religious life was seizing the people. Rationalism and Evangelicanism represented the depth and shallowness of religious conviction. F. D. Maurice was attempting to broaden the views of the Church of England, Carlyle was expressing his denunciations against superficial thinking. Dickens was laying bare the iniquities and cruelties of the social institutions, Richard Cobden was agitating for legal reform, in short, all phases of life were in a process of change. Tennyson was the intimate friend of the great men of the age. Deeply interested in the life of the times he wrote upon the burning questions?woman's rights, economics, politics, science, religion. He incorporated in simple yet exalted poetic language the problems of his day. His was the voice of an age? an age when religious faith was being shaken by the progress of science. In a short lyric of singular beauty Tennyson expresses his interest in the contemporary thought of his age:
"Flower in the crannied wall I pluck you from your crannies, I hold you here, root and all, in my hand. Little flower?but if I could understand What you are, root and all, and all in all I should know what God and man is."
Tennyson is the most representative poet of the English people, because of his representation of their strong religious faith, their obedience to law, their imaginative force. And their unyielding cast of mind. From "Claribel" to "Crossing the Bar" he sings of his native land, its beauty and its people, with a patriotism grown of a pride in "its storied past" and a prayer that it keeps its honor "in the parliaments of the world." Matthew Arnold, English critic on English culture states: "It proceeds from the Hebrew mind rather than Greek thought, from the Reformation rather than the Renaissance less concerned with intelligence than conduct." Tennyson then is not only the expression of his age but of his race.
In Memoriam
"In Memoriam," the greatest of English elegies, was written for Tennyson's most intimate friend, Arthur Henry Hallam. The friendship was formed at Trinity College, Cambridge. Arthur H. Hallam was the son of Henry Hallam, a distinguished historian. In the friendship that existed between the two men, Tennyson and Hallam, Tennyson's was the spiritual influence. Hallam's career as a debater was one of great brilliancy in the society known at Trinity College as "The Twelve Apostles." In friendly combat they deliberated:
"On mind and art, And labor and the changing mart, And all the framework of the land."
Naturally, the close friendship extended to the homelife when college days passed. In 1832 Hallam became engaged to the poet's sister Emily before he left for Germany to study law. While at Vienna, Hallam contracted a severe cold which proved fatal on September 15. Tennyson found expression for his personal grief in the poem, "Break, Break, Break'? Composed as he sat near Clevedon Church overlooking the sea where his friend was buried. In Memoriam, as an elegy, is a lyric poem expressing the author's idea of death as it is classified with the great English elegies that have arisen from the valley of the shadow of death: Milton's classical lamentation "Lycidas" for his student friend Edward King, Shelley's musical lament "Adonais" for the poet John Keats, and Emerson's mourning for his little son in "Threnody."' "In Memoriam" is more than an elegy, it is "A song of victory and life arising out of defeat and death; of peace which has forgotten doubt." Together the friends had made a quest for truth, feeling the need of a definite understanding of the truths concerning God and immortality and the vital forces directing every life. The poet works it out alone during seventeen years erecting not merely a spiritual tribute, to a friendship that was wonderful, passing the love of woman, but a lighthouse of hope to guide mankind during the storms of life into a haven of peace. The poem, a series of one hundred and thirty-one short poems, some of them complete in themselves, follows consistently the theme "That love is immortal." The Proem or prologue is an invocation addressing a divine love, immortal, unproven but believed in, pleading for an increased knowledge, and trusting that the intense grief for a lost friend may be understood and forgiven:
"Strong Son of God Immortal Love. Whom we, that have not seen Thy face, By faith and faith alone embrace, Believing what we cannot prove."
Canto 1-8: The path of sorrow attendant upon the arrival of the news of Hallam's death is revealed, the loneliness, the despair, and the desire to pay a tribute to his friend, a monument of verse. Life now seems as colorless as the old yew tree which year by year has stood a stately sentry in the silent grave-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
yard. Canto 9-19: A chorus poem, a. Wonderful lyric describes the homecoming of the body. It comforts the bereaved friend to know that Hallam's body lies in Clevedon Church among his silent and living friends by the seashore loved in his boyhood. Canto 20-28: The poet sings because it is the only way he knows to show his love. In fancy the poet lives again the joys and sorrows the friends shared, knowing:
"Tis better to have loved and lost Than never to have loved at all."
The next thought that occupies the poet's mind is the fact that if love exists after the separation by death, it may be an evidence of a life beyond. The mystic, wondrous Christmas season approaches, pronouncing the message, "Peace and goodwill to men." Happy memories crowd one upon another. A message of hope comes?truth, intuition, and reason denounce such a possibility as this life being the end of all things? love must exist forever. Tennyson now considers the life beyond?is it just a new sphere of activity as that a bride enters when she makes a new home away from the parental roof?or is it a prolonged sleep awaiting the appointed time of awakening, the Resurrection morning. Tennyson can see the necessity of birth "being a sleep and a forgetting.' Faith in God and His ways is the only thing left for the poet. Canto 28-50: The opening poem is a prayer that the friend be ever near him. Human frailty needs so much guidance. Human weaknesses must be overcome to reach the goal God has set for man. Greater comfort comes in this faith in the ultimate destiny of man. Canto 59-72: The difference between earthly and heavenly wisdom is accepted. Imagination leads the
LESSON DEPARTMENT
poet to Clevedon Church, he sees it in the silvered moonlight and in the glimmering dawn. He dreams of Hallam; he sees his troubled look and seems to realize it is grief at seeing his the poet's grief. Canto 72-99: Autumn comes and the anniversary of Hallam's death. The poet laments over his genius and fame lost to the world. Christmas time comes again and with it a new calmness, death has glorified the friend. The poet never returns to despondency again. In the spring he visits Cambridge, the nightingale's note has a sweeter note as the past is lived over and Arthur's spiritual presence is felt. As another anniversary of Hallam's death approaches, Tennyson invokes the spirit of his beloved to commune with him. The poet's prayer is answered in sacred communion with his immortal friend. Again Christmas comes to the poet in a new home. A strong and lofty song of faith is poured forth "Ring Out Wild Bells." It is the same prayer that Paul, the apostle, gave eighteen centuries before in the words; "Till we all come to a unity of the faith, to a knowledge of the Son of God unto a perfect man, unto the measure and stature of the fulness of Christ." Winter again yields to Spring. The birthday of Arthur Hallam is spent in "festal cheer" this anniversary in singing the songs he loved and with the books he treasured. As the spring strengthens the poet sings not of the past but of "what is to be." To do the work each day brings? to grow?to create?to report back to the Creator with usury. The poem closes in retrospection of his struggles, of the treasures the past conflict has brought him, of the consciousness of a spiritual influence pervading all proving the immortality of Love: "Love is and was my Lord and King." The poem closes with the invocation To Divine Love:
"Our wills are ours?we know not how Our will our ours?to make them Thine.'
The Epilogue is a marriage song celebrating the wedding of Emily Tennyson. A remembrance of the past is given, the living present is noted, and a greater future suggested; the future which is anticipated is in the culmination of a life with God:
"That God which ever lives and loves, One God, one law, one element, And one far off divine event, To which the whole creation moves."
"All great literature has had its source in the rich soil of sorrow."
Guide to Preparation
A. Suggestions for lesson assignments.
1. A vision of the Ideal.
2. Tennyson's Spiritual Quest.
3. "In Memoriam," an Elegy.
B. Suggestions for lesson enrichment.
1. Selections from "In Memoriam.
Guide to Reading
A. "Excelsior." A simple poem by Longfellow expressing the difficulties preceding the glory of conquest. Every youth should know this beautiful poem.
B. "A Man for the Ages'"?Irving Bachelor. A simple novel around the idealism of the great character, Abraham Lincoln.
C. "The Life of St. Francis d'Assissi"?Paul Sabatier. The life-story of this great Christian is told simply in this work.
D. "How to Live on Twenty-Four hours a Day''?Arnold Bennet. England's great novelist gave a practical analysis of activity for sensible living.
The Fourth Tuesday in December is Christmas.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
No Social Service Lesson will be given during this month.
Mission Lessons
HEALTH LESSONS
LESSON III. SLEEP
SLEEP is one of the great mysteries of life. By the turning of the earth on its axis once in twenty-four hours, the darkness of night comes and stops most of our work, and nature brings on us the great restorative spell of sleep. Just what it is and why it comes are mysteries beyond our comprehension, but we do know by experience that it relieves the muscles, and refreshes the mind, and puts -us in a happy condition to meet the activities of the new born day. People who lose their sleep become irritable and inefficient. There is a substance in the brain cells that takes readily the Nissel stain. In this way we can know when it is present or absent. This nameless material is exhausted from the brain cells by worry and work. The fox that has been chased by the hounds is found to have little of it left in his brain cells, while another fox which has had rest and sleep has it in abundance. It seems to be the dynamo of the cell which accumulates with rest and sleep, and exhausts with work and worry. In people who lose their sleep, or have overwork and worry, this material is exhausted from their brain cells as it is from the cells of the fox which has been chased by the hounds. It is restored by rest and especially by sleep. During sleep the body eliminates its waste material which becomes poisonous when retained. While we sleep the blood purifies itself of all the waste materials it has picked up from the body cells during our active hours. Especially in infancy and childhood is sleep necessary for health and wellbeing. " The mother should not fail to see that the baby and the growing child have their full quota of hours of slumber. This may call for some special contriving and it is important that the mother should know how many hours of sleep the child needs at the different ages. For the first year the baby should sleep 14 to 16 hours out of the 24. From two to three years 13 to 14 hours out of the 24. From four to eight years 12 to 13 hours out of the 24. From nine to ten years 113 hours out of the 24. At eleven years 11 hours out of the 24. At twelve years 103 hours out of the 24. At thirteen years 10 hours out of the 24. From fourteen to fifteen years 93 hours out of the 24. At sixteen years 9 hours out of the 24. Different children require different amounts of sleep, the figures given are about the average. A question the mother should ask herself is, "Does the child awaken by himself in the morning refreshed and buoyant?" Adults differ more than children in their requirements of hours of sleep. Some people seem to get on well and keep efficient on four or five hours, others require seven or eight hours. The individual doing heavy physical work will naturally need more. One will naturally learn from
LESSON DEPARTMENT
his own experience how much sleep is necessary to establish complete restoration of his mental and physical faculties, and will have to modify that according to the amount of mental or physical work he is doing. Young children take naps for the first three or four years. After the fourth year children should not be allowed to sleep more than an hour and a half in the daytime because of the tendency to interfere with going to sleep at night. The day nap however should be continued as long as possible. People in advanced years who find the daily grind exhausting will be greatly benefited by an after dinner nap. Such a custom can be readily established with a little effort. It is one of the misfortunes of advancing age that many people develop insomnia, or the inability to go to sleep, and get the necessary amount of repose. People of a nervous temperament are more apt to develop insomnia than others, and it sometimes becomes a serious distressing problem. Those particularly who have to do mental work such as lecturing or teaching may find themselves seriously disqualified on this account. Some people seem to be able to go to sleep at will. It is said of Napoleon that he could lie down any time anywhere and go to sleep almost instantly. Others will lie and toss for hours at a time and be unable to break the chain of conscious thought, even when they know their need of sleep is desperate. There are drugs which cause sleep but they should never be resorted to under any condition without the counsel and consent of a physician. The person who follows the habit of drugging himself to produce sleep will generally end up a dope fiend. The person with insomnia should take no stimulants whatever. Even tea and coffee are very injurious to such a person. Here is a place where the Word of Wisdom applies with a vengeance. Regular hours to bed and to rise are important. A hot bath and a glass of hot milk on retiring are each sedative and will have some beneficial effect. The sleeping room should be in a quiet part of the house. The noises from the street when the bedroom is to the front are often sufficient to disturb a nervous subject of insomnia and prevent sleep. I have known such a person to get on much better about his sleeping when he moved from a busy to a quiet street. In severe cases of insomnia the patient should be put to bed and treated to some form of rest cure, with massage, electricity and ample feeding.
Questions
Just what does sleep do to refresh us? Explain the Nissel staining material in the brain cells. What is it that exhausts it and replenishes it? How does the blood purify itself while we sleep? Give the hours of sleep each child should have in the 24 from the first year up. How many hours of sleep should an adult person have? What about daily naps for the baby? And what about after lunch naps for the adult? What should we do for insomnia?