Julia Stratford Budge By Annie Budge
JULIA STRATFORD BUDGE, daughter of George and Eliza Barwell Stratford, was born at Muldoon, Essex, England, September 20th, 1839, and with other members of her father's family, became, when a child, a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. When seventeen years of age, William Budge, then a traveling Elder in the British Mission, was introduced to her by her brother-in-law, the late President Charles W. Penrose. The courtship was only of two weeks duration, and the young people were married on the 24th day of September, 1856. Until her death, on the 27th day of September, 1912?almost fifty-six years ?they endured together the trials and vicissitudes of life with a constant loyalty and fortitude that only true hearts and strong characters can manifest. They resided, while in England, at 15 Jewin Street, London, where one son was born to them. This baby died when only a month old, and the loss of this little one proved to be only an earnest of many similar distressing experiences which were to come to them.
ON May 10th, 1860, they embarked for America on the sailing vessel "William Tapscott," with a company of six hundred "Mormon" immigrants, who during the voyage, were under the direct supervision of Elder Budge. The ship's company was quarantined on arrival at New York, and after a considerable period of detention, was permitted to proceed to Florence, Nebraska, where it arrived October 5th, 1860. At this point the Saints were outfitted for the journey overland by ox teams to Salt Lake City, and although Elder Budge was wholly uninformed concerning the great West and the manner and means of transportation, his influence with the company of Saints was such that he was chosen as Captain of the last company (seventy-two wagons) to cross' the plains in 1860. He was fortunate to have appointed as his assistant, Nephi Johnson, an experienced scout and plainsman who was a never-failing help in managing the company affairs and in directing operations. While the caravan wended its way across the great stretch of western prairie, Sister Budge, who had held her baby constantly to save its pain-racked body from greater suffering, saw it gradually weaken until it passed away, and the following morning some men of the company observed Elder Budge excavating a burial place for his baby boy. They kindly relieved him of his sad task and extended their sympathetic aid in preparing a casket from some rough boards and in consigning the mortal remains of the little pioneer to Mother Earth?just one of the many to fall by the wayside in the great trek of emigrants to the valleys of the mountains.
THE company arrived at Salt Lake City October 5th, 1860, after a three months journey. Elder Budge, being anxious to begin earning a livelihood, acquired a small tract of land at Farmington, sixteen miles North of Salt Lake, and he and his sorrowing wife there took up their abode. Their first home was a one room cabin of rough uneven logs, between which daylight was always discernible. They had brought with them from Florence a stove, some bedding, and a very few articles of household equipment, but their food supply consisted of nothing more than one-half a sack of flour. Sister Budge had, however, some buttons, pins and needles, given to her by the Saints in London, some of which she exchanged with neighbors for articles of food. Elder Budge was privileged to dig some very small potatoes on shares, which aided materially to satisfy their hunger. However, more than once she and her husband for days had no other food except bread and water. Being unaccustomed to pioneer life, Elder Budge found it difficult indeed, after almost ten years of continuous missionary service, to adjust himself to the strenuous physical labor necessary to provide a livelihood, and the difficulty was accentuated by the lack of proper food. He joined other inhabitants of the town in getting out a winter's supply of wood from the nearby canyon, and otherwise endeavored to take care of indispensable requirements.
THEY resided in Farmington for four years, during which time the place was visited by terrific wind storms, one of which, during the winter of 1863-4, arose while Elder Budge was returning home from Salt Lake City. He had ridden part way with a neighbor who, because of the intensity of the storm, endeavored to persuade Elder Budge to remain with him for the night, but the invitation was declined, and after fighting his way afoot for some hours, he arrived at his cabin to find that his wife had taken refuge in a lean-to, which seemed to afford better protection from the whirling snow which came through between the logs. Added to her own discomfort and peril was the frantic fear for the safety of her husband. Elder Budge brought in wood and made a fire, and they were soon in comparative comfort. Next morning the bodies of a woman and her child were found frozen by the roadside a short distance from the Budge home. The woman had attempted to make her way to the home of a neighbor and had been overcome by the storm. This experience contributed to cause the Budges to rejoice when President Brigham Young called Elder Budge to remove to Providence, Cache County, to become Bishop of that ward in 1864, where they resided until 1870, when Elder Budge was requested by President Young to take up his abode in Paris, Bear Lake County, Idaho. The Bear Lake country was settled in 1863 by colonists under Apostle Charles C. Rich, and in 1870 was still a frontier of civilization. Log cabins with dirt floors were the type of habitation for the early settlers. The nearest railroad point was at Evanston, Wyoming, ninety miles distant from Paris. The climate, while pleasant enough for two or three months in the summer, was extremely severe in winter. The six thousand feet elevation brought blizzards and cold which caused much sickness and suffering among the people. There was not a doctor in the valley and home remedies and treatment were often inadequate. IN June, 1878, Elder Budge left for England to preside over the European Mission. At that time he had three families and seventeen children. Julia, sixteen years old, was the oldest daughter, and Arthur, fifteen, of "Aunt Lizzie's" family, the oldest son. The suffering and hardships en418 dured during the years of Elder Budge's absence was enough to discourage the most valiant. After the birth of her last son (three months after her husband's departure) Sister Budge was afflicted with inflammatory rheumatism and had to depend on what Julia and Annie and kind neighbors could do for her. A number of the children in the family were stricken with diphtheria, and these conditions, added to the dire poverty the families were compelled to experience, were distressing to the entire household. Through all the years of pioneering, Sister Budge never faltered in her absolute devotion to her family; yet of twelve children born to her, she lost five boys and three girls. Three daughters, Mrs. Julia B. Nibley, of Salt Lake City, Miss Annie Budge and Mrs. H. Smith Woolley, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of Logan, and Jesse R. S. Budge, of Salt Lake City, survive. Her sorrows were multiplied and her grief never ending, but she endured adversity with the fortitude of a martyr. It may also be said that no one was more kindly disposed in assisting other members of the community who were in need or distressed. Not one of the robust, hardy type, but gentle and sensitive in her nature, the trials which were heaped upon her, which to some might have operated as the "Refiner's fire," were unnecessary to improve or perfect this sweet and lovable woman. 'These trials were not necessary to mellow her disposition or to teach her patience or love or loyalty or fortitude, for all these virtues were nature's gift to her in the beginning. Blessed be her memory as an inspiration to all who knew her.