Guides in Buying Textiles By Vilate Elliott
II. BARGAINS
PROBABLY more money is uselessly spent at bargain counters than anywhere else ? how many of us are guilty of buying articles at a bargain counter for which we have never been able to find a use but it was cheap and I thought I could use it. I have two pieces of embroidery insertion at home, bought on a sale that I shall never use, embroidery is out of style, I get it out and look at it and try to remember it was bought at a bargain counter. A bargain is an article which will meet a real need at the present time, not an imaginary one of some future date. There are two parties to every bargain, the Merchant and the Shopper. Be sure that it is a bargain for you and not for him. Utility to you is the controlling factor in determining any. Real bargain. A bargain is an article which will meet a real need at a price lower than can generally be expected in satisfying that need, also it is well to remember that no matter how cheap an article may be it is expensive unless we have an immediate need for it. A good many sales are perfectly honest and legitimate, and a careful shopper may pick up a real bargain if she finds among the articles offered the specific thing that will satisfy a definite need. But, except in stores which enjoy a high reputation for honesty and fair dealing, it is advisable not to be too ready to believe either that all the articles are of the same quality, or that the prices given are the original ones from which the goods have been marked down. It is always possible for a store to get in some new stock, mark it for a few days at some fictitious price with no thought of making sales, and then re-offer it at a reduction which gives the shopper a tremendous saving?on paper. Bargains are primarily for the benefit of the seller. They are often used as leaders to bring people to the store in the hope they will buy other goods as well. Special shipments of goods may be ordered from the manufacturers in order to satisfy the demand for bargains. These goods are very often inferior in quality. Since bargains in many cases exploit the household buyer's ignorance, at a bargain sale more than any other time she needs to be on her guard against high prices and inferior quality. The bargain tends to concentrate her attention on price, and immediate purchase, and to divert her mind from the quality and her particular need for the goods. A salesman once told me nearly everything put on a sale are seconds or shelf-worn goods; there are a few first class articles put out as drawing cards, but in most cases the articles on the sale are the full price or at best not more than a few cents lower and remember they are seconds or shelf-worn goods usually. Bargainitus is a mania with some people, but bear in mind that worthless junk in household commodities and family clothing are usually found at bargain counters. It is well to realize that it takes more than a low priced tag to make a bargain. Then again, in the line of clothes, we frequently buy articles on sale that do not lend themselves to the clothes or accessories which we already have. We buy a charming little dress for $5.95; when we get it home we find our hat, gloves, purse, etc., are not in harmony with the new dress so it hangs in the closet and we still feel we have nothing to wear. It is well to take an inventory of our stock of clothes on hand, then to resist temptations to buy a dress because it is cheap or because the saleswoman tells you it makes you look more slender. If it harmonizes with the clothes you have at home it may be a good buy, otherwise it is expensive at any price. "An efficient buyer is one who secures the maximum of goods for the time, energy, and money expended." In her buying the housewife must decide where to buy, when to buy, shall I buy at home in my local market, shall I buy in a larger place where I have a greater choice, shall I pay cash, have it charged, or buy on the installment plan, shall I buy at the beginning of the season when I have the best choice, or shall I wait until the price has been reduced. How shall I recognize the qualities desired and judge whether I am getting the most for my money. Each question must be answered individually. The housewife has a great variety of shops from which she may choose. The price and quality of the goods to be purchased are the first consideration. Some people prefer a department store because all kinds of goods are found there, other women prefer the specialty shop as it -is often more exclusive, and again many people buy from mail order houses. There are many factors that help us to determine where we shall buy, the various advantages and disadvantages of different stores must be carefully weighed if a wise selection of a store is to be made. The attractiveness of the store, the pleasant relations with clerks and management, honesty in matters of weight, and description of the goods, the reputation and dependability of the house to stand behind its goods. Also influences our choice. "Among 368 New York farm families reporting in 1928-29, chain stores were patronized much more frequently for food than for clothing, furnishings and equipment. Families who patronized chain groceries on being asked to give reasons why they did so stated: 1. They believed chain stores had lower-priced food than independent stores. 2. The customer could see, and compare prices and select the variety desired. 3. The customer could benefit from weekly sales. 4, The customer did not have to pay more in order that others could obtain credit. It was felt that chain stores were a benefit because they did away with credit." It is always well if possible to anticipate your needs so the article won't have to be purchased in a hurry. Prices on some goods are much the same the year round, others vary from week to week. If one takes advantage of bottom prices -many dollars will be saved. If possible the best time to shop is early in the morning; you will avoid the crowd, your clerks are fresh and can usually give you more time and consideration. I knew a store which at one time gave a discount of 10% on all shopping done before ten o'clock in the morning. It is always best to buy in your local market, where you are known, where you feel the friendly relation existing between customer and clerk. The locally owned store is a part of your community which you wish to help to support. But frequently in the line of clothes people who are over or undersized have to go where they have a wider choice. The question of how shall we pay: cash, credit, or on'the installment plan must be considered. I have known very successful families whe did everything on the installment plan?built the home and furnished it on this plan, each working member of the family contributing; this often brings about a family interest not otherwise acquired. But as a rule the installment plan is not the most satisfactory and business-like way of buying. "The fundamental consideration for the installment merchant is that the purchaser may never complete his payments. In such cases the merchant must arrange to collect the goods and resell them as secondhand stuff for whatever price he can get. This is a terribly expensive system on which to do a profitable business: as a result the installment purchaser generally pays an outrageous price for what he gets. The spread of the installment system is based on that kink in human nature which makes us clearly recognize that 25 plus 10 times 10 is 125 but which somehow lets us believe that an initial deposit of twenty-five dollars plus ten monthly payments of ten dollars each is considerably under one hundred and twenty-five dollars: especially if we are enthusiastic about that overstuffed chair or that set of "World's Great Dramas of Love and Strife" which we can buy in this "painless" way. In the meantime let us definitely understand that installment buying is the most expensive, and therefore the most unintelligent and undisciplined, method of shopping. Installment buying may be all right for the other fellow and in some instance may be a convenience to you; but it can never be the most efficient way to buy. Next to knowing what you want is knowing how you want to get it. Once upon a time the housewife went shopping with a capacious market basket on her arm. There were few stores from which to choose; she made her purchases, paid for them, and carried them home. Since then retail selling has developed into a great and highly complicated system, and in the keen competition for business many stores seek to attract customers by offering all sorts of conveniences and even entertainment, the point to bear in mind is that they constitute a definite selling expense which is necessarily passed on to the customer through a higher mark-up; that is, through a wider margin between the cost of merchandise to the merchant and his price to the customer. Many of these conveniences are a legitimate part of our progress in the standards of living; but the customer should appraise them as such and realize that she is paying for them.; At the same time the shopper must always bear in mind one cardinal principle: so far as she is concerned, no store is better than its ability to deliver what she wants when she wants it and at the lowest price available to her.
EXCHANGE PRIVILEGES
"There is one element in modern shopping habits which deserves the serious attention of shoppers. It relates to the widespread abuse of a privilege which is inherently sound. The abuse causes unnecessary costs which the store passes back to the consumer through higher prices than would otherwise be necessary. "The reference is to the privilege of returning purchases for exchange or for refund of the purchase price. A shopper, for example, buys a rug in good faith and then discovers that it does not harmonize with the upholstery; or it may be a matter of stockings which are found not to match the dress with which they are intended to be worn. The right to return such purchases is a privilege which every shopper appreciates, yet many shoppers abuse this courtesy of the stores. The most general form of abuse is in the growing carelessness of shoppers in making selections in the stores; they know that they can return the goods if they finally decide otherwise or find something better elsewhere, and so RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE they order the things sent home and postpone the decision. The simple desire to make an impression has more than once led a woman shopping with a friend to order some article, knowing full well that she does not want it or cannot afford to buy it. And, of course, there is always the deliberately dishonest shopper who buys, let us say, a dress, wears it to some party, and then returns-it to the store. The return privilege adds to the cost of doing business in several ways. It takes out of stock articles which might have been bought and kept by some other customer. It creates both an unprofitable delivery expense and also the cost of later calling for the goods and returning thme to stock. Goods sent home, tried on, and repacked by an inexperienced packer frequently lose their freshness and may be definitely soiled or otherwise injured; in all these cases they must be reoffered at a reduced price. The extent of this mental laziness in shopping and of the consequent expense factor in retail merchandising is strikingly illustrated by the New York Evening World in a dispatch under the head, "Whim of Shoppers Prove Costly for Stores in Chicago": Chicago, Dec. 3?Women who lack self-control in shopping cost department stores here from $9,000,000 to $12,000,000 a year by returning goods, said D. F. Kelly, head of one of the largest stores, at University of Chicago. The speaker declared that returns in shoes were 10 to 15 per cent; women's coats, dresses and furs, 25 to 40 per cent; china, lamps and glassware, which require careful packing, 10 to 15 per cent; and pianos, radios and phonographs, on which cartage costs are high, 25 per cent." (Taken from the Shopping Book, by Baldwin.)