A Creator of Jobs (Cora CARVER RITCHIE) By Ada Hurst Brown
"IF she will, she will, you may depend upon it." Years ago this caption was written under the picture of Cora Carver in one of the year books of the Brigham Young University, and a more fitting slogan for her life could not be found. In a recent letter to Cora, Mrs. Ida S. Peay says, "It has been a long time since you went to school here, but I very distinctly recall you? fair, dainty, attractive, vivacious." Other people who knew Cora Carver then say that she was much the same as she is now?outstanding, dependable and original. This remarkable woman, who is still young and attractive, besides being a wife, housekeeper, and mother of eight children, has been at different times in her life, cook, school teacher, pioneer, civic worker, painter, musician, advertising and newspaper writer, reader, radio announcer, and business secretary.* And always she has been an active church worker. She has worked when and where she was asked, though she loves working best with women and children. She has held almost every position that a woman can hold in ward or stake, and she has done this while raising her family of five boys and three girls. Not only has she will power to carry on but she has a seemingly inexhaustible supply of ideas that she can put to work; and with this capacity she has been able to meet the crises in her life?to find mental and financial support. Where others could not find work, this woman has
*Since this article went to press Mrs. Ritchie has passed to the great beyond. ?Editor
gone from one good job to a better one, and is still climbing upward. At the same time she is supervising her home, and keeping all of her children in school excepting her baby, who is only five years old. Mrs. Ritchie says that any woman can have a large family and still be active and progressive if she tries, but that she can't waste time and do it. Her greatest ambition is to keep up with her children and she hopes to go to college with them when they are ready. "I am sorry for people who do not have big families, and for those who pity me because I do," is the way she expressed it. 'After all, the greatest thing in my life is and has always been, my family. Through my children I hope to express all the things I have wanted to do in this life." She has a lovely, talented family. One child is a violinist. One shows talent for painting and another for writing. And they all bring home excellent report cards. One evening as we sat on her porch talking, her eldest daughter left for a radio station with a roll of script under her arm. "I am afraid I don't do it very well, mother," she paused to say. "There is one important thing you have to do," her mother replied, '"'be true to your character all through and it will be good." That was advice Mrs. Ritchie could give her daughter out of her own experience as a play director and radio broadcaster, just as she could give advice on dozens of other things she has learned thoroughly. That illustrates why she has become a better mother through her other activities. She can keep up and advise her family in each day's events.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
CORA CARVER RITCHIE
CORA CARVER was born in Plain City, Utah, the daughter of Willard and Delia Moyes Carver. Her grandfather, John Carver, was a patriarch and a pioneer of Weber county. Her grandmother, Elizabeth Murry Moyes, was one of the first women to receive a diploma in Utah to practice midwifery. Mrs. Moyes was known throughout Weber County as a fine doctor and brought many babies into the world. She often rode in lumber wagons fifteen or twenty miles to save a mother and a child after others had given them up. Cora's parents and grandparents instilled in her the ambitions to learn and to be progressive. The president of her stake once said, "I think I have never seen you when you weren't busy, and you always have an armful of books." Mrs. Ritchie says that doing church work is an education, and if a woman keeps up with the lessons outlined by our church leaders she can gain the equivalent of a college education, besides her spiritual development. Cora Carver attended Weber College, graduating later from Brigham Young University, after which she took post-graduate work from the University of Utah. After leaving the B. Y. U. Cora taught school for a few years, then she was married to James D. Ritchie, and continued teaching until a short time before her first baby was born. Then she moved with her husband to a desert railroad station in Idaho where her husband went into the mercantile business. When the train stopped to let her off, the conductor jokingly said, "No white woman has ever stopped at this station before." He noticed the flowers Mrs. Ritchie carried and continued, '"The atmosphere here will kill flowers." True, there was nothing but sage brush and alkali, but in spite of this in a few years the Ritchies built a lovely home with rose bushes and trees included and helped build on this desert a real town including a depot, a barber shop, and an ice cream parlor. Mrs. Ritchie enjoyed the achievements of pioneering. To make flowers grow around their first home she carried water in buckets from a slow dripping artesian well. At one time she painted the interior of an eight room house, including eight French doors.
A CREATOR OF JOBS
DURING these pioneering days she had many unusual experiences. She drove their Ford car over rough roads after night in a hurry-up call for a doctor for her neighbor, or to deliver a box of baby chicks in order to save their lives. One of her own babies was born a half-hour before the arrival of the doctor as he lived twenty-five miles away. In addition to her other duties she learned to barber, nurse, doctor, and cook. She cut other men's hair as well as her husband's. At one time, before the cafe was opened, she cooked for twenty-two railroad men and served meals in two little rooms. In spite of all this activity her home has always been open to guests and there has nearly always been someone, not of the family, living with them. At one time when one of her own babies was only a few months old, she took a young war bride in her home and cared for her during her confinement, doing all the nursing of mother and baby herself.
HER greatest inspiration has always come from other women who have achieved success in different lines. She studies their characters, looks for their good points and makes them her own. She has written sketches of many prominent women in Utah and Idaho as well as national leaders. Her husband and children have always encouraged her in her activities and are very proud of her. Her oldest daughter Beth said, "Mother, I think Dad must have had high ideals and aims in life when he chose you for his wife."
WHEN the crash of 1929 came, the bottom dropped out of everything for the Ritchies. They sold first one home and then another in a frantic effort to save something, only to see this money lost also. But Mrs. Ritchie was not discouraged. These were merely physical losses and could be regained. So with an indomitable spirit she started in to help her eight children. They had lived in Idaho for eighteen years, but after making a visit to Ogden, they decided to move there. Letters of reference were the only way in which she could sell her ideas to strange business men, so Mrs. Ritchie brought some with her. I quote from some of these letters: "Mrs. Ritchie is qualified as a lecturer, demonstrator and newspaper worker, has a pleasant personality, and is a hard worker." "It has been my good fortune to be associated with Mrs. Cora C. Ritchie for the past ten years, both in civic and church affairs, and I have found her to be very efficient, conscientious, and extremely faithful in her work. Her executive ability and the tact to manage large groups of adults and children is very commendable?having had much experience, especially among the latter." "Mrs, Ritchie is a capable business woman and radio announcer." "Mrs. Ritchie makes a splendid club member. She has great executive ability, and is most interested in civic affairs as well as cultural. She is a good leader, and charming to work with. She is also a. Writer of note, having had articles published in local and eastern magazines and papers." So Mrs. Ritchie tried several things, advertising, radio broadcasting, and various programs for business houses. At first it was hard and poorly paid work. She had begun writing and selling some material before her eighth child was born, and now again she wrote and sold some articles and stories in connection with business advertising. In all, she has had material appearing in eighty-six different publications including two magazines for which she wrote something every month. It was in November, 1933, while Mrs. Ritchie was working at advertising, that she received the greatest blow of her life when she lost by death her oldest son, Willard. He was a big, strong, healthy nineteen-year-old boy, suddenly stricken with appendicitis. This was something that with all her courage and will power she could not replace, and she still suffers intensely though courageously from his loss. In January of 1934 Mrs. Ritchie was appointed secretary of the Industrial Division of the Ogden Chamber of Commerce. She immediately started a campaign to acquaint the women of Weber County with its ninety-three industries. To do this, she conducted thousands of women and girls in groups which sometimes contained as many as ninety people through the industrial plants of Ogden. She gave talks before hundreds of them in clubs and churches, and demonstrated in stores and schools. She presented various advertising programs, writing her own copy.. Her ideas for these are original and seem inexhaustible. This was accomplished while the depression was in full swing. Men and women were losing their jobs daily. Mrs. Ritchie realized this, but she knew also that she must have a job after such financial losses, and with her husband out of work. Of this time she says, "I knew it would do no good to apply or send in my name for a job. I had seen my own husband and son wear out too many pairs of shoes hunting for jobs. There just weren't any. Well, all my life if I didn't have the right thing my recipe called for, or enough goods of one color to make one of my girls a dress, I'd substitute something. I figured out other ways. If there wasn't a job, I'd make one." "I had to plan and use common sense and persistent effort. I learned that business men are human, and if you have a worth-while plan to present, especially if it is original, they will usually give you courteous interviews, but women should bear in mind that business men are accosted perhaps hundreds of times daily by someone eager to get a job or to be assisted in some way. So be sure your plan will stand the test before you ask for an interview. Don't think because you are a woman you deserve more consideration than a man. Meet a business man as a business man. Above all, don't waste time. Make it snappy." "The world is full of wonderful new things to do. Never before has woman had such opportunities for big business, but she has no right to enter the business field if it means
A CREATOR OF JOBS
neglecting her duties as wife and mother. Originally God in His business-like world, planned woman for the home. Business should be only secondary." It is a pleasure to visit the Ritchie home. The children are healthy and well-trained, so I am sure they have not suffered because their mother is away from home so much. In the last two years Mrs. Ritchie has had offers from some of the largest industries in Utah and has assisted many other women to get jobs. It is interesting to note that every job that she had held has been one she has created. One manager of a large industry said, "Mrs. Ritchie is, what shall I say? Original, yes. A pioneer, yes. But more than that, she is a creator." Another manager said, "I believe Mrs. Ritchie could sell refrigerators to an Eskimo." Another reason why this exceptional woman is in such great demand, is because she has always given more than her job required. She is energetic, dependable and unusually original. She has the persistence and will power to overcome obstacles. "If she will, she will, and you may depend upon it."