(To be continued) Notes from the Field By Julia A. F. Lund?General Secretary SINGING MOTHERS OF TETON STAKE Teton Stake THE above picture is of the Relief Society Singing Mothers of the Teton Stake. This chorus was organized in August, 1934, under the very capable direction of the Stake Relief Society Chorister, Johanna G. Tonks. The chorus consists of sixty-five voices representative of all parts of the Stake. They rendered the music for the Relief Society Stake Conference in September, and their efforts have been so greatly appreciated that they have been invited to furnish the music in the Sunday sessions of the Stake Quarterly Conference during the Fall and Winter of 1935. Their organization is now permanent, and they hope to continue in building up their chorus. It is a source of great enjoyment not only to themselves but to their community. Malad THE Malad Stake shows very splendid activity as usual. The Magazine drive of the last year increased the subscription over that of the previous one, and the aim for the present year is 100%. Among the accomplishments of the year 1934 may be listed the following: In February, a party in honor of all the Ward Officers, Class Leaders and their partners was given. A program, games and refreshments were greatly enjoyed. In March of the same year the anniversary programs were carried out in the Wards, and on the 17th the Stake gave, as its entertainment, a two-act play, followed by a dance. In May, a Work and Business demonstration was sponsored by the Stake and all the Wards were invited. This offered a most valued and extensive demonstration of the articles made during the meetings. Also in May the Stake Board, with Sister Eleanor J. Richards gave their annual party at the Washakie Ward. This, as always, proved to be a very 442 wonderful social and spiritual feast. In June the Relief Society sponsored a mission to the Logan Temple, where 392 endowments were performed. This was so successful that in November the Relief Society again was responsible for a most successful excursion. In July the Women's Camp, under the direction of the Extension Service of the University of Idaho, was held at Lava Hot Springs, and during the threeday sessions more than one hundred people from the Malad Stake attended and were represented by members on the program. In September a pre-school clinic was held, where 83-children were examined. The doctors and dentists cooperated, splendidly in this work. During the month of September a Class Leaders and Visiting Teachers' convention was held in connection with the Stake Union Meeting, and during the last of the month, when the Stake Relief Society convention was held, another splendid demonstration of handwork, canned fruits and vegetables, and other useful arts, sponsored by the Work and Business Leaders of the Stake, was held. St. Joseph Stake ROM one of our Southern Arizona stak?s?St. Joseph?comes an interesting account of the celebration of the ninety-third anniversary of the Relief Society. This particular celebration was in the Globe Ward, and in order to realize the anniversary spirit thoroughly, and make preparation for the seventeenth, a party was held on the fourteenth of the month. This took the form of a testimonial to the Relief Society Ward President, at whose home the pleasing event was held. A feature of the evening's entertainment was the presentation of a friendship quilt in gold and blue. This was made of thirty blocks, each RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE bearing the name of a member of the Ward Relief Society and her position in the organization. Each member made her own block and contributed toward the purchase of the cotton, lining, etc., necessary to complete the quilt. This was a complete surprise to the President, who greatly appreciated it. On Sunday evening, March 17th, the program was sponsored, at which time, in addition to numbers appropriate to the day, a very interesting little play, "If Ye do it Unto the Least of These," was presented. At this time there were a number of people present who did not belong to the Church, and they were impressed with the opportunities both socially and educationally, that are offered the members of the Relief Society organization. Although the Ward enrollment is not large, the sisters are interested and enthusiastic, and at their Ward entertainment more than ninety guests were in attendance. Utah Stake INASMUCH as vacation time is upon us it seems most helpful and appropriate to give an account of the very splendid work which was done in the Utah Stake during last Summer. We are indebted to Sister Hasler and Sister Merrill, of the Stake Relief Society, for the very splendid program of activity which is furnished. "The success of our summer activities has been more than we anticipated. The people seemed to grasp the spirit of so worthy a movement. The newness and magnitude of the plan did not deter them in the least. We seemed to get the cooperation of the people from the very first, as we made a house to house canvass to determine the ages and number of children. Meetings were called in each district to advise the people of our aims and plans, ONE STORY HOUR GROUP AND A BAND GROUP here it was that we found our leaders and helpers. This seemed to fill a long felt desire to give their time and talents; much creative ability and talent was found undeveloped. "There were no funds and no particular playgrounds, so we made use ONE SANDPILE GROUP ONE COOKING GROUP of the nearby schoolgrounds, parks and their equipment, our homes, lawns and a tennis court, and a baseball diamond which took care of those not listed in the city's recreational field activities. "Our code of ethics consisted in teaching the children respect for 444 other people's property, to guard themselves against giving offense by word, looks or actions. They were urged to be courteous, kind and considerate, to control the tone of their voices and guard their tongues against slang, and swear words; also to show and express appreciation for all favors, to never interrupt others when talking, and always remember to ask pardon for any offense or unguarded actions. "Our aim was to prevent delinquency by making every child a participating child, to help him to understand the value of time and know the joy that comes from accomplishments, to arouse or stimulate creative ability and gain new ideas by contrast with other children and homes in the hope of stimulating greater helpfulness and consideration among members of families. "The following activities were participated in by the various groups: home management, personal care, art, drama, music, dancing, reading of good literature, boys' chorus work, cooking, sewing, art needlework, nursing and games. Story telling and sand building for little tots; scrap books were made by the cooking and art classes. "One of the most stimulating and outstanding achievements was a piano class of twenty-one organized and conducted by a girl of eighteen. Six prizes (sheets of music) were presented to those with perfect attendance records. "Two hundred and fifty participants were given cards entitling them to school credit according to the number of hours spent, or for finished articles, in music, cooking, sewing or leadership, etc. Sixty-two leaders directed well organized groups. Our final summary showed eighty-five percent of the children in the Ward participated. "A program showing the accomplishments in the various groups was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE given by-ninety-two of the children. The outstanding numbers consisted of an original playlet by a girl of eighteen, a chorus and skit by twelve boys from eight to twelve, a cooking review by twenty girls, a demonstration of what was accomplished in sand play, and an exhibit of all finished articles in two large rooms decorated for the purpose. "Our compensation consists in the gratitude of those participating. The cooperation of the people and their loyalty; the finding of leaders not otherwise recognized, the development of talent and creative ability, for happy and grateful children, and parents appreciative in that many lives were made brighter, and a greater desire created for worthwhile accomplishments and a fuller and better life." California Mission FROM the California Mission comes a very delightful report of the celebration held on March 17. Four of the branches in San Diego and -the vicinity celebrated the founding of the organization in appropriate fashion, and as a climax they were able to turn on the radio and hear the broadcast from the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City. The music of the Relief Society Singing Mothers, and the delightful message of President Robison, went over the air clearly to them. A banquet was held by each of the branch Relief Societies, and on Friday the pageant "If Ye Do It Unto the Least of These" was very successfully produced. The Missionaries were especially invited to all of the activities in the various branches, and reported a most successful time. This Mission, as so many others, is finding the lesson work very inspirational and encouraging, and the Magazine is of great value in so many ways. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto?Charity Never Faileth -President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer LOUISE YATES ROBISON AMY BROWN LYMAN.KATE M. BARKER JULIA A. F. LUND THE GENERAL BOARD Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Jennie B. Knight Lalene H. Hart Lotta Paul Baxter Cora L, Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Editor Manager Assistant Manager Hazel H. Greenwood Emeline Y. Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Ethel Reynolds Smith Rosannah C. Irvine Nettie D. Bradford Elise B. Alder Janet M. Thompson Marcia K. Howells RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE: Mary Connelly Kimball Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman Vou. XXII JULY, 1935 No.