The Way Was Opened By Anne Snow
JUST how much does your religious faith mean to you? What sacrifices would you be willing to make for it? Would you abandon a comfortable home and take a long and tedious journey to a foreign land for it? Would you forsake a youthful dream of love and leave behind your sweetheart at its promptings? Would you trudge footsore and weary a thousand miles across a trackless plain at its call? Could you in your forlorn condition face with courage the loss of loved ones snatched from the family circle? Could you bear the toil, the exposure, the privations encountered in pioneering a dry and_ barren country? Enduring all these trials, could you still keep sweet, trusting, amiable?
SOME of our pioneer ancestors did this very thing. Among them was my grandmother, Ann Rogers Snow. She was born December 30, 1835, at East Lake Farm Seytsinyy sloping upland overlooking the sea, in the southern part of Wales. The old-fashioned farm house, surrounded by beautiful flower beds and walks was inclosed by a hedge fence and shaded by great elms, venerable with age. There was an orchard containing fruit and hazelnut trees. Not far away were blackberry bushes, where the children delighted to go "berrying" on warm summer days. The family was well-to-do. Its members enjoyed a home furnished with the comforts and conveniences of that day. A maid and hired men were kept to do the work on the farm. Ann was the ninth child and the youngest of her mother's children. Her mother died when the youngster was two years old. A few years later her father married again.
IN the year 1842 the family at East Lake Farm accepted the Gospel message, and soon the spirit of "gathering''. Came upon them. John Rogers, the father, made arrangements to go to Zion. His oldest son, who was a school teacher and the parish minister, tried to dissuade him, telling him he was not strong enough to withstand the North American climate. But his mind was made up, and on January 12, 1849, the family boarded the ship Osprey, and sailed with a company of saints for America. They spent ten weeks at sea, arriving in New Orleans about the first of April. Here they began to see strange sights and peculiar customs of the new land and to suffer minor disappointments. On April fourth the Rogers' family took passage on a steamboat up the Mississippi River, bound for Council Bluffs. When they reached St. Louis, Ann's brother Thomas and wife and her sister Sarah and husband, who had just been married, decided to stay and get work. The remainder of the family went on up the river. Some miles beyond St. Louis Ann's sister Elizabeth died very suddenly. This was a terrible blow to Ann, for the two girls had been inseparable companions. 'The captain, a kind-hearted man, said to the sailors, "Boys, if you are with me, we will give this girl a decent burial." So they stopped at a plantation, dug a grave in a lovely spot, and buried her by the riverside. With only one brother left to continue the journey and a stepmother, Ann was lonely indeed. But the cup of her sorrow was not yet filled to the brim. Acting upon the advice of church leaders, John Rogers decided to rent a farm and stay at the Bluffs awhile. He was not strong, and about a year later he fell ill and died in August, 1850. Ann and Henry were anxious to get away upon their own resources. Before long Henry had an opportunity to hire out to a man going to California. With a sad heart Ann bade him goodbye. That was the last time she ever saw or heard of him. The stepmother now decided to go to the "Valley." Accordingly she bought a covered wagon, a yoke of oxen and a cow and started with a company that was ready to go. There were only three of the family left: the stepmother, her little daughter Mary, and Ann. Ann walked and drove the oxen most of the way. After weeks of plodding over rough and dusty roads, exposed to all kinds of weather, the company neared the promised land. The Rogers' wagon was the last of the train, and when it was miles from Salt Lake, one wheel collapsed. The stepmother and little sister stayed with the wagon while Ann walked into Salt Lake on foot and alone, the only one of her mother's children to get to the valley at this time. Her patriarchal blessing told her she had been preserved for a purpose, her life being spared that she might be the means of connecting the link that would seal the family to their ancestors.
AFTER the three arrived in Salt Lake, the stepmother married again. Ann went to work in the family of William Snow, whom she afterward married. Before Ann left her native land, she had been courted by a young man whom she thought a great deal of and whom she promised to marry. When the family sailed to America, she had to leave her fiance behind, but she agreed to wait for him three years. The three years had passed, and not a single message had she received. Then one day about three months after she had married William Snow, she got a whole bundle of letters written by her old lover at various times. He had written faithfully every month after she left Wales, but the letters had been delayed somewhere. "How did you feel when you received those letters?" I asked grandma. "Oh, I didn't exactly feel sorry," she said. "Your grandfather was a good, kind husband. But just the same I shed a few tears when I thought what a comfort the letters would have been to me on the dreary journey. Later, however, I received Fac?tsws which made me feel that the hand of Providence had intervened to give me a pearl of great price instead of a bauble."
THE Snow families moved from Salt Lake to Lehi, and just as they were getting comfortably fixed there, a call came for them to go and help build up Utah's "Dixie." It was a trial for them to leave their homes and start pioneering again, but they willingly obeyed the call, and in November, 1865, started south. After traveling through snow storms and cold weather, they arrived in Pine Valley on Christmas Eve.
THE WAY WAS OPENED
In this little village grandmother maintained her home during the rest of her life. Here as a Bishop's wife and a Relief Society worker she served her neighbors and her friends for sixty years.
IN recalling my association with grandmother and the incidents related by her children, I have tried to decide what her most outstanding traits were, what attributes enabled her to sacrifice and serve as she did. The incidents related above constitute sufficient proof that she possessed in a high degree courage, patience and fortitude. A visit to her home would immediately suggest that neatness was one of her qualities. Not a speck of dust could be found anywhere. There were no flies, no unpleasant odors. Her dishes and stove were shining. Beds were without a wrinkle. Everything was in perfect order. An atmosphere of refinement would also be in evidence: simple furniture, some homemade articles, tastefully draped and decorated, a few cherished old pictures and ornaments. Not a stately mansion, but a cozy, restful home, obviously presided over by a woman of dignity and refinement.
REAL pioneers learn to be resourceful, and grandmother was not lacking either in resourcefulness or industry. She was always alert to ways and means of improving the conditions of her home and family. While she was living in Lehi, some easterners on their way to California stopped near her place to overhaul their wagons and make repairs. On the evening of their arrival, the leader knocked at her door and explained, "We are traveling to California, madam, and our wagon covers have become badly damaged. We should like to have them mended. Would you be willing to fix them for us?" 'Being an excellent seamstress, grandma said, "ves, I can mend them tomorrow." "We have three heavy covers," the man continued, "also a lightweight one which we cannot use. You may have the light one for repairing the others if you want it." Grandma told him she would be glad to take the light one for her pay. That night her prayer was one of thankfulness to God for opening up the way whereby her family might be clothed for the winter. Some of the cloth was used for under clothing; the-remainder was dyed and made into shirts and dress
WHEN the Snow families moved to Pine Valley, there was no store. Supplies of every kind were hard to get. A few of the men decided to start a tannery and make their own leather. Grandma used this crude leather and bits of jeans left over from the men's clothing to make shoes for the members of her household. After a store had been opened in the village, she sewed overalls and jumpers for the merchant's customers in exchange for "storepay."' By this means she was able to provide her family with articles they needed. For soap, in those early pioneer days she used the roots of a plant (oose, I think it was called). Later, like many other pioneer women, she learned the art of making soap from scraps of fat and lye distilled from wood ashes. In preparing meals for the household she often resorted to substitutions, such as molasses for sugar, corn meal for flour, and salt rising for yeast.
Perhaps honesty was grandma's strongest quality. In fact, it is a characteristic of the Rogers family. Being convinced that the Gospel was true, they had to be honest with themselves and accept it even though it required great sacrifice. "I wish I were as good a man as my father," grandma's nephew (her brother's son) remarked to me. "Talk about honesty and charity, well, he was it personified. When I was a boy we worked together on a rented farm. Always the biggest loads of hay, the finest shocks of grain, the best of everything went to the owner for his share." Grandma was like that. If she borrowed anything, she paid it back with interest even to a needleful of thread. All of the children were thoroughly taught the lesson of honesty. One son recalls that as a small boy he was taken to task for eating a biscuit stolen by an older boy from a farmer's dinner pail. Another son refused to sell his neighbor a certain horse he owned because he thought the neighbor would be cheated by the trade. "I wouldn't sell Jede Hill a horse like that," he said. "It wouldn't serve his purpose, and he's too poor a man to throw away his money."
ANN R. SNOW saw many changes take place in the world during her lifetime. She lived to be ninety-two years of age. When people asked to what she attributed her good health and longevity, she replied, "Mainly to my mode of living. I was always systematic in my work and regular in my habits. Our food was simple, and much of the time it was too scarce to tempt us to over eat. Then, too, we always got plenty of exercise in the open air." "Didn't you worry in those early days when you didn't have much to live upon?" I asked her one day. "We learned to trust in the Lord," she replied, "and it is wonderful how the way was opened up, miraculously at times, that we might get the necessities of life. Those were the happiest days of my life because of the sustaining power of the Lord's Spirit." If she had any difficult or distasteful task to perform, she went quietly ahead and did it without complaint. "I don't like to have my peace of mind disturbed by thinking of disagreeable duties to be performed," was her comment. She lived to see the fulfilment of her patriarchal blessing. In searching the records of her ancestors, she found she was descended on her mother's line from kings and queens of the British Isles. I like to think of her now as a queen among the righteous spirits in our Father's Kingdom. Truly, she deserves the reward promised by the Savior wherein He says: "And everyone that hath forsaken houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother... For my name sake shall receive an hundred fold, and shall inherit everlasting life."