National Jamboree of the Boy Scouts of America "THROUGHOUT the world countless thousands of mothers have rejoiced that their boys have been privileged to get the benefits that come from being Boy Scouts. We know of no movement which has brought so much joy and such fine training as has Scouting. The Scout Oath is an inspiration to the highest living. |The boy pledges, "On my honor I will do my best? 1. To do my duty to God and my country, and to obey the Scout Law. 2. To help other people at all times. 3. To keep myself physically strong, mentally awake, and morally straight." EDITORIAL The Scout Law enjoins the scouts to be trustworthy, loyal, helpful, friendly, courteous, kind, obedient, cheerful, thrifty, brave, clean and reverent. Holding before the boys constantly this splendid law, plays an important part in the formation of fine characters. In addition to the regular work there are many outings that delight boys. All over the world the boys look to the International Jamborees that bring Scouts from many nations together. Now at the invitation of President Roosevelt there is to be a National Jamboree of the Boy Scouts of America. 30,000 scouts from all parts of the country and from several foreign scout groups will hold encampment at Washington August 21st to 30th. This will be the greatest gathering of boys this country has ever seen. No one has vision enough to foresee the friendships that will be formed during this Jamboree. Our own Oscar Kirkham, who served so efficiently as morale officer in the past two International Jamborees, will serve in like capacity in this gathering. "The broad democratic scope of the Boy Scout Movement will be more strongly than ever impressed upon every Scout's mind; it will make 30,000 Scouts realize what a 447 tremendous thing Scouting is?what a privilege and responsibility is his because of wearing the Boy Scout Badge." "A thousand camps will lie within the area of the one great Jamboree camp. And its setting will be unequalled. One will be able to lift his eyes above this colorful and unique encampment and see the Nation's most revered monuments; the towering Washington Monument, the Lincoln Memorial, the Capitol dome, and the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. Lucky indeed will be the Scout privileged to represent his Troop at the Jamboree, for the camp alone will be an experience he is never likely to forget. It will be many, many years before the boys who are fortunate enough to attend this epochal event will ever again learn of its repetition anywhere, in any country." These boys will enjoy pageantry showing the outstanding exhibits from each of the twelve regions of the United States into which th? country is divided. All eyes will be turned toward Washington during this great gathering. It is to be hoped that the fondest dreams of those who have planned this Jamboree will be more than realized. THE Turkish Government has issued a special series of postage stamps to commemorate the International Women's Congress at Istanbul. The proceeds of this issue will be equally shared by the Government and the International Alliance of Women for Suffrage and Equal Citizenship. The stamps represent the portraits of Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, Founder and President of the Suffrage Alliance and of the six women to whom the Nobel Prize has been awarded: Mms. Curie (Science); Grazia Deledda, Selma Lagerlof and Sigrid Undset (Literature); Jane Addams and Bertha von Suttner (Peace). They also carried symbolic representations of one or two activities of women and also of the Yildiz Palace at Istanbul where the Congress was held. It is claimed that this is the first time that any Government has issued a special series of postage stamps in order to commemorate a Woman's Congress.