		R. S. REPORTS.

	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Retrenchment Association in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Nov. 11,
was one which significantly illustrated in
its movements not only the "signs of the
times," but the implicit confidence the GOOD
SISTERS place in the teachings of their be-
loved Prophet and President. In the ab-
sence of the President of the Association,
Mrs. M. I. Horne, Counselor E. R. Snow
presided over the meeting, and after the
reading of minutes from the different wards,
and other formula connected with a meet-
ing of this kind, Miss Snow called the at-
tention of the sisters to the proposition of
President Young to them as to the buying
and storing of grain. Miss Snow thought
it necessary to have a Central Committee,
who were chosen then and there and sus-
tained by the vote of the assembly. Miss
Snow made many appropriate remarks up-
on the subject, referring to the prophecies
of ancient and modern prophets, and to the
coming of the grasshoppers during the pres-
ent year. Her words were precious, and
would they were engraven on every heart
that more care and economy might be mani-
fest in the daily lives of the Latter-day
Saints. Counselor Zina D. Young spoke
upon this subject, also upon the persecutions
the Saints had endured in Missouri and
other places; said she wanted to see the sis-
ters become a mighty phalanx, giving
strength and support to the kingdom of
God. Counselor B. W. Smith, and Mrs. R.
R. Grant, President of the Thirteenth Ward
Relief Society, expressed themselves in
reference to the great labors now being
performed by the sisters, and advanced
many good ideas in regard to the grain
movement. The subject of the Woman's
Book was laid before the meeting by Miss
Snow, and the sisters' aid solicited in be-
half of the publishing of it. The sisters
were also requested to hand in to Miss Snow,
or the author, Mr. E. W. Tullidge, any spe-
cial items in their lives, or spiritual mani-
festations which had been given them
which they considered strong testimonies
upon the principles of the gospel.
	These meetings become more and more
interesting and all who can make it conve-
nient to attend them will be able to form a
very good idea of the great work being done
by the women of Utah, and will be enabled
to receive such teaching and encourage-
ment as will direct their minds in a safe
channel, and help them to withstand temp-
tation.

