[COLUMN 2]

ent time. Writers of the day refer to this good
woman (Dorcas,) as a pattern of humility;
"doing what her hands found to do with all
her might;" which is no doubt a just con-
clusion, but to say she had no aspirations of
a higher nature, no thought of what her
work was accomplishing, that her brain was
not exercised as well as her heart and
hands, seems simply absurd. Women in
those times were endowed with intellect
and wisdom, and no doubt Dorcas under-
stood her vocation and worked with a pur-
pose, as the good sisters work in our day.
	This is perhaps merely an assertion, but
it has as much to sustain it, as the conclusion
drawn by the writers, who bring Dorcas for-
ward for such women to imitate, as have a
desire to vote, to legislate or "orate." She,
they affirm, had no ambitions for any of
these things. Now how do they know?
They were not there, and all they know of
her is a few words recorded in the Bible
from which they draw their own inference;
but being a woman and understanding a
woman's feelings, I should say she worked
for a purpose, no doubt that purpose was a
great one, and she was governed and guid-
ed by the circumstances of the time in
which she lived, and her devotion to the
cause she had espoused. The Savior when
upon the earth; taught the Gospel in its ful-
ness, and set the pattern for all to follow; in
many instances recorded in the New Testa-
ment, He manifested His great reverence for
women, and upon every occasion spoken of,
women were treated with affection and ten-
derness. This is particularly noticeable in
all His life and teachings. I am very will-
ing to believe that Dorcas was full of pious
zeal, that she worked with her hands and
made coats and garments for the poor, that
she comforted and blessed with good deeds
and acts of real kindness and loving words,
the widows and orphans. How beautiful is
such a life; how Christ-like the memorial of
such charity. "And all the widows stood
by him weeping and showing the coats and
garments which Dorcas made while she
was with them."
	How blessed is the work of such as live
to minister to others, forgetful of self, live
for God and His Kingdom. Surely the an-
gels have joy in watching over these prec-
ious, chosen ones, whose lives are devoted
to the noble and holy work of elevating,
purifying and refining the human family.
	In the Scriptures written by the Apos-
tles they recorded the things which
seemed most essential, but the acts and
charaties of women were almost left out,
although here and there they are mention-
ed in a casual manner, showing that their
good deeds were of common occurrence,
otherwise when these things were mention-
ed, the facts would be much more explicit.
	From the reading of the paragraph in re-
lation to Dorcas, one might infer that she
had filled some important position. There
is no doubt Dorcas had charge of some or-
ganisation for the poor, the widows and the
orphans, that her work was a great one, and
that when she died, they felt there was no
one to fill her place, and accomplish so much
good as she could have done. She was so
beloved by the people because she was ex-
tensively known for good works; as one that
ministered to the needy and desolate. Mod-

