[COLUMN 1]

lie. He was a sort of extremist, and took
no medium stand. After that his books and
work were neglected, and his days, as well
as evenings, were spent abroad. Fast young
men became his constant companions. I
was left alone to mourn over the change I
had wrought. At first he made it a rule to
be in at night by ten o'clock, but after a
time he began to stay out later; and day-
break sometimes found him from home.
I tried to expostulate, tried to win him
back to his old habits, but my efforts were
unavailing. He had got a taste of a new
life and it held him by a charm. Well do
I remember the first night he came home
in a state of intoxication. It was his seven-
teenth birthday, just a year from the time
I gave the party. I had seen him under
the influence of wine once or twice before,
but this night he drank so deeply that some
of his companions had to help him home.
	The hours of that night were dreadful
hours of self reproach and agony. I was so
glad when morning came to dispel the
gloom—so glad when reason returned to my
erring child. He was very much ashamed.
He said again and again he would do bet-
ter; but his resolves were worthless. Two
nights later, he was again brought home in-
toxicated. After that it was a common oc-
curence. He fell lower and lower, squand-
ered all my ready money and, when I re-
fused to mortgage my property, that he
might have more, he left me with an oath.
	That night a large firm was robbed and
it was discovered that Willie was one of
the perpetrators of the deed. The next
morning the town was alive with excite-
ment, and I almost crazed with anxiety,
for my boy had fled. The news passed from
mouth to mouth; my house was searched,
and my son called a villain, but I had no
power to prevent either. No one gave me
a word of sympathy.
	"You have only yourself to blame," said
a blunt old woman, who called during the
day. "The boy was happy at home but you
drove him into bad company."
	That night at the hour of twelve, as I sat
alone, a window was opened softly and Wil-
lie stepped into the room. With a glad cry
I sprang toward him, but he pushed me
rudely away.
	"Can you hide me anywhere," he said,
"The bloodhounds are after me. Had you
given me the money yesterday, this would
not have been."
	"Oh, Willie!" I cried.
	"Yes, mother," he said sternly, "you
have made me a criminal. I want to tell
you I have secretly married Kate Hastings.
God knows what will become of her."
	Kate was a pretty little creature, only 16
years old, innocent as the violets which
grew around her home—My bleeding heart
gave a quick painful throb as he continued:
	"The world will not believe we are mar-
ried. She will be scorned by all. Hark!
they are coming. Mother, I am too young,
too wicked to die, but I must die. Fare-
well!"
	I saw his purpose now, for his hand
clutched a revolver and springing to my
feet I threw my arms about him to shield
him from himself. But he shook me off.
The next moment the loud report of his
pistol echoed through the house. One glance
showed me his lifeless form stretched on
the floor. Then existence was a blank to
me.
	"When I awoke to consciousness the
morning sun was shining and the house
was filled with people. But even justice
was satisfied, and I was left alone with the
dead. All day, tearless and motionless, I
sat beside that mangled corpse. Some peo-

