[COLUMN 1]

women of talent and their example, to discour-
age the drinking of wine, beer, or liquor in any
form at dinner-parties, social gatherings and
New Year's calls, a great deal might be accom-
plished for the cause of Temperance; for many
a young man, as the writer says, can trace his
downfall from all that was good and pure, to
the first taking of the social-glass. Mothers
and sisters, especially women of the Latter-
day Saints, let us entreat you to use all your
influence to do away with this foolish Gentile
custom, lest your hearts shall some day ache
as sorely as many hearts do now, throughout
the whole world from the effects of intemper-
ance.
	AT A MEETING of the Central and Ward
Committees, on the Grain Movement, held in
the Social Hall, Friday, Nov. 24th, many im-
portant ideas were advanced in a clear and for-
cible manner by those who spoke upon the sub-
ject. Reports from different wards were given
in regard to the movement and such sugges
tions as seemed applicable to the time an
place, from many presidents of Relief Socie-
ties from the several wards. It seemed that in
several of the wards they had good granaries
to store in separately, which will of course; be
an advantage in some respects, for there wil
be a better opportunity of preserving it from
damp, or mice, or weevils, or any of the an-
noyances that attend the storing of grain in
large quantities together.
	Miss E. R. Snow, of the Central Committee,
in her remarks, referred to having recently
visited Brigham City, and that her brother,
who is president there (Lorenzo D. Snow,)
thought this movement of the sisters a step in
the right direction. Br. F. D. Richards, of
Ogden had said to her, he thought what the
sisters did this year in regard to buying grain
must be done immediately as there could be
nothing done after Christmas. There are many
of the brethren in authority, Bishops and oth-
ers, who have spoken kindly and favorably to
the sisters, and given the movement their
hearty endorsement. A spirit of energy and
enterprise is manifest among the sisters to in-
vest their means in such a manner as shall be
approved by heaven. Not all the laces and
silks in the world could compare with bread
stuff in the time of scarcity.
	Mrs. W. East of the 14th ward, when she
rose to speak, said she was sure that the Lord
had called upon the sisters to act in this ca-
pacity. Spoke of a brother who had a speci-
men of wheat he had kept for twenty five
years, and that it was perfectly good. Those
who are not of us, scoff and sneer, but the sis-
ters should be independent of all outside influ-
ences, and take hold of the subject with that
fortitude and courage that will warrant suc-
cess.
	FARMINGTON, DAVIS Co., Nov. 24th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By request of our President, Mrs. S. I.
Holmes, I send you a report of what we are do-
ing in regard to the grain question. At our
meeting two weeks ago last Wednesday, she
read the editorial containing President Young's
counsel and suggestions and some other pieces
from the Exponent, explaining to the sisters
what is required of them; said she felt like
commencing right off, so that we should not
be behind in this great work. At first it was
thought best to build a granary that we might
have a suitable place to put the grain collected;
but afterwards, through advice and the kind-
ness of the brethren, one was found already
built which we can have the use of, therefore
saving the means which it would take to build
to buy grain.

