THE NATIONAL PUZZLE.

	First, who is elected President? And second-
ly, how is the fact to be demonstrated? Third-
ly, is it to be determined by the civil powers,
or by military force? No wonder people are
becoming confused on the subject, for confus-
ion reigns supreme, and if dissolution is not the
result of haranguing for reformation and
amendment, constitutionally why then Amer-
ica is surely exceptionally lucky. If only
some good fairy would whisper in the anxious
listening ear of some popular editor, whose
nerves are strained to the highest tension, or
touch, with magic hand the Electric Telegraph
and send the news throughout the length and
breadth of the country, now anxiously waiting
the grand national denouement, it would be a
most commendable and praiseworthy action.
Alas! the people of this highly enlightened
nineteenth century are too matter-of-fact to
believe in fairies or magic, and too self-confi-
dent to put their trust in an over-ruling power
who the Scriptures affirm, holds the nations in
His hand, and Who has declared he will turn
and overturn until the kingdoms of this
world become the kingdoms of God. So peo-
ple will go on wondering and puzzling and
querying what is to be the result of this pecu-
liar crisis in national affairs.
	It is not strange that people get muddled in
trying to solve the mystery, for there never
was a more vexatious riddle propounded to the
American nation.
	All the reports which have been received
from the different states since the Tilden party
were so positive of his election have been con-
tradictory ones. On every side arises difficulty
in determining the facts, or arriving at a just
decision, and the only way out of it, is to de-
clare the law, pertaining to presidential elec-
tors incomplete.
	This is the only policy left them to pursue
that will not implicate the governing powers.
One party may of course cry out against the
dishonest proceedings of the other, but when
both know themselves to be equally in fault,
what policy so clear as to lay the fault of the
evil issues upon their predecessors who formed
for them a government and constitution of
laws, surpassing all other existing forms, and
yet, (for their wicked purposes,) inefficient.
	And so the great American nation has made
such gigantic strides in advancement (corup-
tion) that they need another amendment to
meet the emergencies of this case. All these
things to those whose eyes are open to "the
signs of the times" are direct indications of
the approaching crisis, which will eventually
result in the final overthrow of all govern-
ments. Some powerful agency which the
world cannot understand is now manifesting

