HYGIENIC NOTES.

	About Sleep.—How much sleep is necessary
to health and activity of body and mind it is hard to
determine except by individual experience; medi-
cal men and women and scientists have come to
this conclusion, after a variety of experiences and
experiments. The difference in individuals is
greater than inexperienced persens would imag-
ine. It is very generally conceded that children
should be indulged to the extent of their inclina-
tions.
	In the "Journal of Commerce" we find the fol-
lowing interesting items on this subject. Dr. Cooch
mentions a man who sleeps only fifteen minutes a
day and enjoys good health. Blaine mentions a
a man who during an active campaign, never, for
more than one year, slept more than one hour in
twenty-four; and the same is related of Charles
XII of Sweden, during his wonderful career.
Jeremy Taylor, during a part of his life, slept
only three or four hours out of the twenty-four;
and Napoleon during his military career slept only
four or five hours out of the twenty four; but he
was able to fall asleep any time in the midst of
his work when he felt drowsy. John Winter,
the great surgeon, slept four hours at night, and
one after dinner. Sir John Sinclair gives the his-
tory of a man who had reached the age of ninety-
one, and all his life had slept but four hours in
the twenty four. Sir Walter Scott said he was
not entirely himself unless he passed seven hours
in total unconsciousness. Southey required ten
hours, going to bed at ten and rising at eight,
Sir William Jones laid down the rule of life for
students in the couplet—
	Seven hours to books, to soothing slumber seven—
	Ten to the world's a[-]lot, and all to heaven.


COLERIDGE was once out on a particular
ride. The horse and the get up of the rider
were alike open to vulgar criticism. A low
wag appreciating the general effect, asked
the poet if he had met a tailor just like
himself. "Yes," was the reply; "and he
said he had lost his goose." After this
lowly triumph, his road brought him with-
in hail of a more distinguished party of
horsemen, one of whom, a sporting M. P.,
known to have been bribed by the Minis-
try, stopped him to enquire the price of
horse and rider. "The horse," was the
answer, "is a hundred guineas; as for the
rider, as he is not in Parliament yet, I have
not fixed his price."


IMPROMPTU EFFORTS.—Although pains-
taking writers produce the best work, as a
rule; it cannot be denied that some of the
most popular things in literature, especially
hymns and short poems, with now and
then a story, have been written almost
without forethought, and printed with but
little alteration. As, for instance, the mis-
sionary hymn, "From Greenland's Icy
Mountains," which Heber wrote at a few
moment's notice. And "Sheridan's ride"
has a history as felicitous. It is said of it
that its author, Reed, had Murdock the ac-
tor, for a guest, and while at breakfast, saw
in the morning journal an account of Sheri-
dan's exploit. He withdrew to his own
room, and in about an hour came out with
that poem, which Murdock read at the ben-
efit the same evening, and which in the
course of a few weeks appeared in half the
newspapers in the land.


[Column 1]
	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
