WOMAN'S VOICE.

	The new movement in regard to grain is one
which should receive the hearty commenda-
tion of the Latter-day Saints. It is part of our
religion to practice consistently the laws of
life and health. If we do not do this we are
not sustaining the laws of God. for He has
made all laws devolving upon each other so
perceptibly, that if we transgress one, we are
sure to infringe upon others. We could not
possibly carry out the design of our Creator
unles we preserve our bodies, for the first great
commandment given to man after the creation
was to "multiply and replenish the earth."
In order to do this we must have well preserv-
ed faculties and physique, otherwise we are de-
generating and falling away from the pattern
given us to follow. "And God created man in
His own image." It seems to me that to be
made in the likeness of God is something
which every individual should hold in rever-
ence, and it ought to be an incentive to purity
in the preservation of life, and thus give us op-
portunity for such knowledge as shall help us
to obtain a part in that higher life which will
be the ultimate result of our being upon the
earth.
	The Lord caused the earth to bring forth of
her fruits for the sustenance of the beings
which He placed upon it, and it has been ful-
filling the laws of its creation for many thou-
sand years. But we who believe the Scriptures
and the prophets of our own day know that
great changes are to take place, before the rev-
olution of all things which will usher in the
millennium. One of the most distressing of
those changes will be famine, and we have
been warned and forewarned of its coming,
yet the people, as in the days of Noah and oth-


ers, reject the testimony of the Servants of
God, and still pursue their every-day life, care-
less of the future, and regardless of the teach-
ings and testimonies vouchsafed to them for
safety.
	It is sufficiently apparent to every sensible
woman that if the famine were right upon us,
we are not prepared to sustain our own people
here in this Territory, and that we should feel
it as severely as others. But if we heed the
call made upon us by the servant of God, ap-
pointed to dispense His word unto the people
in due season, then we shall act wisely while
we have a day of grace given us; but let us not
dally or trifle away time and opportunities,
but seek with all diligence to store up an
abundance of grain for ourselves and our friends
who have jeered and ridiculed us and our re-
ligion. Let us exercise that charity that will
not only feed the hungry, but make the need-
ful preparations beforehand, that we may min-
ister to them in a substantial and proper man-
ner.
	[handwritten] E. B. Wells
								EMILE.
S. L. City, Nov. 24, 1876.


