		ON THE GRAIN MOVEMENT.

	The meeting was held in the Social Hall
on the 17th of November 1876. Called to
order, and opened with prayer by Mrs. E.
Howard. President of Central Committee,
Mrs. E. B. Wells, remarked as follows: "It
is very generally understood that this meet-
ing is called to discuss the GRAIN QUESTION,
It would be well to let our thoughts and
words be concentrated on the subject; we
want to make the best use of our time and
use all dispatch, that the sisters may get
home in good season. We would like the
Presidents of Relief Societies to let us
know what their ideas are on the subject.
	Miss E. R. Snow said: It is a very im-
portant occasion that has called us together,
probably such as never occurred on the
earth before. The Lord, through his pro-
phet, has called on the mothers in Israel to
prepare for a famine, which makes the sub-
ject we are called on to discuss a grave one.
We are well assured that the time is fast
approaching when the Lord will pour out
His indignation on this country, and al-
though we should escape, we will feel the
effects of it in a National capacity. Our
hearts must be hard indeed, if we will not
feel for those who may come to us for help.
The Lord showed his servant Joseph that
such things would come, and it was of such
a nature, and so distressing and revolting

[Column 2]
to humanity to witness, that he asked the
Lord to close it up. We can see, from what
has passed, that the predictions of the Ser-
vant of God, have been fulfilled to the let-
ter. He has now called on the women of
Zion to purchase and take care of wheat,
and I hope we may act with wisdom, that
the blessing of God may rest upon our la-
bors. We want to decide how to procure
the grain and take care of it; and whether
we will act in Wards or in a general capac-
ity; we have been told that there is room
in the Tithing Office to store it. But per-
haps some of the Wards have a good place
for storing; if so, and they prefer it, they
can do so.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells said: Bishop Hunter told
me we could store the wheat in the Tithing
Office, and that the wards could also if they
wished, as there was plenty of room unoc-
cupied now; but whatever we do there, we
will have to employ help, as the brethren
who labor there are all fully employed.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball said: We have ap-
pointed a committee to visit in our ward.
They report that the feelings of the people
have been liberal and good. All we want
to know is what steps we are to take in or-
der to push the work forward. I feel that
the Lord will bless us in our undertaking.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells asked if any of the
sisters could inform the meeting where
wheat could be purchased.
	Mrs. W. East: I expect Mrs. Horne can
tell us where we can buy wheat, when
she returns from the South. I have been
told that the brethren residing in the coun-
try places, are awakening up, and see the
utilily of saving grain, and it may not be
a very easy matter for the sisters to procure
it. We held a meeting in the 14th Ward a
short time ago exclusively for this ques-
tion. The sisters feel the importance of the
mision and will do all in their power to ac-
complish it. We feel that the Lord will
open up the way for us to get wheat; and
that he will bless us in our efforts.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Goddard: I have heard
that wheat can be bought for a dollar a
bushel; and I think it would be well to take
flour also, it can be kept good in sacks for a
long time.
	Mrs. E. S. Barney: I can report from
three counties where they have no grain
for sale; Morgan, Summit and Wasatch,
were distressed with an early frost, which
destroyed nearly all their wheat; but feel
sure that we can make this business a suc-
cess.
	Mrs. R. Grant: The 13th Ward intend
saving grain. We have had a large bin of-
fered us for that purpose, which we will ac-
cept. It has long been preached that the
brethren should prepare for a day of famine;
it now seems as if the women were to have
a hand in it, and I hope the Lord will give
us strength to perform our work nobly.
	Mrs. Sarah Howard: I feel it is a priv-
ilege the Lord has given us, and we will try
and be united in it. For my part I will try
and do all I can, and I feel that the Lord
will open a way whereby we can obtain
grain, although it is late in the season.
Our Retrenchment Association has com-
menced a fund for that purpose, we will
work in concert with the 20th Ward Relief
Society.
	Mrs. Savage said: In the 20th Ward,
they intend doing the best they can to help
in this work, but just at the present time
there are no funds in the Treasury.
	Mrs. M. M. Hyde, 17th Ward, said:
We intend to build a hall for the use of our
Society; when we heard of this grain busi-
ness, we talked the matter over, and think
of making the hall smaller, and putting up

[Column 3]
a bin for wheat in part of it. I would just
suggest, that in the States, wheat some-
times spoils, through dampness, but our at
mosphere being so dry, I expect it would
keep good for some time."
	Mrs. E. B. Wells: President Young said
the sisters were to solicit help from their
husbands and the brethren, for this purpose;
by that means we would be able to get
funds to purchase the wheat with.
	Mrs. Reid, of the 16th Ward, said: The
sisters of our Ward are willing to do all
they can to carry out counsel.
	Mrs. L. G. Richards: I think that if
we unite our means, and have one energetic
sister to buy up the wheat; and by hav-
ing one, two or three hundred dollars, quite
an amount could be procured, and I think
would be better than being mixed up in
wards.
	Miss E. R. Snow said: What I have to
give, I intend putting it with the bulk. I
know no separate interest. I hope energet-
ic sisters will be appointed to attend to it;
one or two in each ward say, or a commit-
tee be formed, as may seem necessary.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells remarked: I presume
all the boards of the Relief Society will co-
operate in this work, and I think it will be
well for us to unite.
	Mrs. Chase of the 1st Ward: I have
talked on this subject in our meeting, and
we intend to unite with the rest in what-
ever plan they may suggest. I have a large
bin in which a great amount of wheat
could be stored; perhaps all we could get
this year. We have quite a number of
poor, but will be able to help some in all
good calls. At one time my husband put up
a good deal of wheat but after some time
the weevil spoiled it. But I hope we can
plan some way to take care of that which
the Lord will bless us with.
	It was then moved and seconded that a
general committee be appointed to purchase,
but that will not hinder wards from hav-
ing ward committees.
	The following ladies were elected as a
purchasing committee: Mrs. E. S. Barney,
Mrs. E. Howard, and Mrs. S. M. Kimball.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells said: Let every sister
secure and store away every bushel of
wheat that it is possible for her to obtain.
She also said it will be necessary to have a
Treasurer in some central place. Mrs. P.
M. Staines was sustained as Treasurer.
	It was proposed that a record be kept of
the proceedings in each ward, every name
and donation put down in a distinct man-
ner.
	It was suggested that we commence at
once and have no delay about it. In Manti
they have put up 60 or 70 bushels, and we
can't be too prompt in this matter. Many
of the brethren seem to wish to help us.
	Mrs. Mercy Thompson [---]: Flour that
is well sacked and kept in a dry place would
keep as well, if not better, than wheat. I
have some flour now using, that has been
sacked four years, and it is as good, if not
better than new flour. I know that the Lord
will bless us in our undertaking.
	Considerable business was transacted in
regard to the Woman's Book about to be
published; and the propriety of the sisters
making a carpet for the Historian's Office
was taken into consideration and the sisters
donated liberally for that purpose.
	Meeting adjourned until Nov. 24th, at 3
o'clock p. m. Sung "The Spirit of God like
a fire is burning." Benediction by Mrs.
Rachel Grant.


IN, what ship has the greatest number of
people been wrecked?—Courtship.


