BY BELLE FRENCH.

	"Willie, why don't you go and play with
the boys and not be forever stuck at my
feet?"
	Such was Mrs. Gray's impatient question,
one day, when her little son came and seat-
ed himself in the parlor when his mother
was conversing with a visitor.
	"I would rather be with you than with
the boys," he answered timidly.
	"Oh, I never saw such a baby!"
	"Is it wrong to wish to be near you, moth-
er?" said the child, and his nether lip trem-
bled as he spoke.
	"Wrong? of course not. But you are old
enough to have some manliness about you.
See, yonder are Will and John Gowdy on
the ice. Run and keep them company. I
want to talk to Mrs. Brown."
	"Isn't he a queer child," she asked.
	The other raised her sad eyes and fixed
them with such a painful expression on the
mother's face, that for a moment Mrs. Gray
almost felt offended. She was a sorrowful
looking woman this Mrs. Brown.
	"I had a son once, but he's gone," she
said at last, and there were tears in her
eyes.
	Mrs. Gray gazed at her wonderingly.
She had not known this before.
	"It is a bitter thing to tear open partially
healed wounds," Mrs. Brown continued,
"but I will tell you my story:
	"Several years ago I was about to give a
party; a grand affair it was to be, and my
head was almost turned in making prepara-
tions. My Willie, (his name was Willie
too,) was about 16 years old. He had never
been to school, I had educated him myself.
At home, he was all a mother's heart could
desire; but he was shy, and when I forced
him into company he appeared so awkward,
that I often felt ashamed of him. This was
one reason of my deciding to give a party.
If he was obliged to act the part of host he
would overcome his bashfulness, I thought.
But Willie never approved of it.
	"I shall be so glad when the party is
over," he said one day; "for since you have
got it into your head, I have lost my moth-
er."
	"Poor little baby!" I responded, slightly
provoked at his lack of interest. "I won-
der how many more years I shall have you
tied to my apron string?"
	I spoke sneeringly, and a proud flush in-
stantly overspread his face.
	"I will be tied there no longer," he re-
turned, "I will seek other company in the
future."
	I was frightened at the result of my
words. Still I made no response. My son
putting on his coat and hat, went out. It
was the first time in his life he had gone
out without informing me where he was
going.
	In good time the party came off. It was
a gay affair, and none were gayer than Wil-


