			CENTERVILLE, DAVIS Co.,
					Nov. 17, 1876.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	On the 15th our Relief Society was fav-
ored with a visit from Sisters E. R. Snow
and E. S. Barney; they fed us with the
words of life, pointed out many duties that
rested on the women of the Latter-day
Saints to arouse a feeling of higher and ho-
lier purpose above the cares of every day
life; said that we had gathered out of Baby-
lon and we should leave Babylon behind,
and unite in the general good of Zion, and
be helpmeets to man in very deed; they
laid before us many items of business—lay-
ing up grain against a day of need, to assist
in publishing the Woman's book, to sus-
tain the Woman's store, silk-culture and all
home industries, anything that helps build
up the kingdom of God, all of which we in-
tend to do to the best of our ability.
	They were inspired with the Holy Spirit

[Column 2]
and infused it into the hearts of the audi-
ence; it truly seemed like angels, visits and
we trust the fire kindled will continue to
burn in our hearts till we are enabled to
perform all that is required of us. Our
Bishop was present, and bore his testimony
to the truth of their remarks; was pleased
that the sisters had come, and wished the
Society to prosper.
	At 2 o'clock p. m., the same day, we had
another meeting; Sister Snow organized a
Young Ladies' Society with twenty-five
members, including officers. We have se-
cured a few bushels of grain as a nucleus
to gather to. We have quilts, carpet, stock-
ings, socks, and some cash we intend to
donate to the temple; we attend to the
wants of the poor though we have but few
in our midst. We wish to bear our testi-
mony to the sisters and to the world that
the Latter-day work is true, including co-
operation and plural marriage; that it will
bring happiness to all who will live up to
its requirements.
	Wishing your valuable paper a circula-
tion in every home, we remain,
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
		MARGARET RANDALL, President,
		REBECCA A. PORTER,	} Counselors.
