[CONCLUDED]
	It is Saturday, but I shall teach, to make
up for last Monday, which was the "Twenty-
Fourth." Our good brethren celebrated
it in honor of the arrival of the Pioneers
at "Monopohoko"—(Salt Lake.)
	I often look down the pasture, and think
how good it would seem to see a white face
approaching; that is a sight seldom seen
here. But I am quite busy trying to learn
the language, and have no time to get lone-
some. I shall not have so good a chance
to learn when Simpson goes away, he is so
patient in teaching me. He will soon start
for another island, and will be gone until
conference time.
	The natives are thick around me, so that
I can scarcely write. They are gathering
to make arrangements for a feast; our house
is their place of gathering for such affairs,
and it is generally very lively with their
noise.
	We have eight rooms, three verandas, a
nice large cook house, and no mud. It may
rain for hours and as soon as the sun comes
out, you may walk out without soiling your
feet. Grass grows even on the rocks. You
may spade your garden, and in a few days
grass springs up and looks green. I never
saw so clean a place. The water is as soft
as rain, very warm, but I do not notice it
now. I am getting used to everything ex-
cept doing without vegetables. Sorry we
did not bring seeds with us. The brethren
have not tried to raise a garden. Simpson
has been trying to get a few seeds here and
there, and has a garden started. I have not
seen a melon, or anything but sweet pota-
toes in the vegetable line since we came.

	It is seventeen years to day since I took
the marriage vow, and promised to be a
true and faithful wife. And as the mission-
aries are to start again tomorrow, we have
had a dinner, the first good meal I have
had the honor of cooking. There were of
us, brothers Lambert and wife, Woolley and
wife, Pack, Stringam, and Molen, myself
and little Millie. For dinner, I made a good
loaf of bread, a nice cake sweetened with
very brown sugar, four apple pies, (from ap-
ples that my dear mother dried,) stewed


two chickens which I bought of a native
woman, and made a nice gravy. Then we
had salt beef, sweet potatoes with butter
and pepper, and "poi."
	I imagine you laughing at my dinner,
but you need not. I saved things for over
two weeks, preparing for to-day. Brother
Wooley made me a present of some nice
pine apples, cocoanuts and a paper of figs.


