[COLUMN 3]

ern writers want us to believe that Dorcas
whom they hold up as a pattern for emula-
tion, stayed at home and stitched away for
the love of Jesus without any ambitious
ideas of what she would accomplish; "she
knew how to sew" which I suppose is inten-
ded as a hit for the Dorcas of modern
times, who does not sit and sew all day
and night too, and wear out her life, si-
lently and unobtrusively. I believe that
women should know how to sew, but I do not
believe in incessant stitching, and perhaps,
after all Dorcas may not have put in all those
stitches herself personally. We say Solo-
mon built the Temple, but we do not mean
by that assertion that he did it with his
own hands, but that he had charge of its
construction.
	There are those like Dorcas whose works
are manifest among us now, who are devot-
ing time, talents and means to the noblest
ends. Women whose names will be held in
remembrance, not only now, but hereafter.
Women whose deeds will shame those who
have had more abundant opportunities and
have not improved them. Is it not consist-
ent to honor these women whom we have
in our midst, who labor diligently with
head, heart and hands to promote the high-
est interests of the whole human family?
I believe it to be not only consistent but a
duty. Then while we esteem the Dorcas who
dwelt upon the earth so many hundred
years ago, let us also reverence those who
live in our day, who are giving their all
towards the work of benefitting and bless-
ing and preparing the earth for the millen-
nium.
	It is the custom of the whole world, to
extol the names of the dead and enumerate
their virtues, and let the living go unre-
warded; forgetful that they too are deserv-
ing of honor, and that a word of kindness
or appreciation, an acknowledgement of
their manifold labors would be far more ac-
ceptable to them while living than any trib-
ute to their memory after they are dead.
	It is recorded of Dorcas that she was
known for her "good works and alms'
deeds." Blessed record to be handed down
to her future generations; but there is a
duty to the living, and it would be well to
bear in mind that there are those in our
midst who have devoted themselves exclu-
sively to good deeds, and shall we wait un-
til they are dead to do them reverence?
Let it not be said of us who profess so much,
that we immortalize the names of the an-
cient Dorcas and yet we lack in doing our
duty and showing proper reverence to those
who are with us; if not, then what better
are we than the world? "Do not even the
publicans, the same?" We are said to be a
peculiar people, let us prove it by cherish-
ing those who devote their lives to the
work of the kingdom of God.
	THYRA.
S. L. City, Nov. 21, 1876.


No true artist ever worked yet for ambi-
tion. He does the thing that is in him to
do by a force far stronger than himself. The
first fruits of a man's genius are always free
from greed.


