	CORRECTION: IN THE EXPONENT OF NOV. 1,

[Column 2]
we published a report from Mill Creek Ward,
Salt Lake County, in which two mistakes oc-
curred accidentally: every second Thursday,
should read Tuesday; and the name of the pres-
ident of the association, instead of Mrs. Isabel-
la Carlisle, should read Mrs. Isabella Walters.
	THE UTAH Musical Times, No. 9, which we
have received, contains some choice and inter-
esting articles. "Write Your Thoughts," is one
which expresses clearly the true system of
writing for the press. The music is of home
production and speaks well for Utah's musical
talent. It gives many late dramatic notes
of interest. Utah may be justly proud of this
periodical.
	WE HAVE received a specimen copy of the
"Daily Hotel Gazette," a new publication in
San Francisco, California. It seems from its
variety of advertisements of business &c., to
be valuable for reference to travelers, etc.
They are using Miller and Richard type which
they strongly recommend. This manufactory is
a Branch of the Edinburgh Type Foundry,
and has on hand, beside Hard Metal Scotch
type, presses, and printing materials. Office,
No., 521 Sacramento St., San Francisco.
	AT THE General Retrenchment Meeting,
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Sat., Nov.
25, Elder Junius F. Wells, recently returned
from a mission to the United States, addressed
the assembly briefly. He expressed great joy
at the work in progress among the sisters, and
contrasted their ideas, feelings and knowledge
of the future, with the women of the world.
He manifested great interest in the Woman's
Book, believing it would open the eyes of an
enlightened class of society to the facts in re-
gard to the motives by which the sisters were
actuated.
	THE WOMEN of Utah have taken meaaures
to secure the publication of a BOOK which will
combine in one volume, the lives and testimo-
nies of the sisters as far as possible, from the
time of the rise of the church in Kirtland up
to the present day. Such arrangements have
been made as will ensure to every sister ample
returns for all money invested either in her
own name, or in connection with a Relief So-
ciety. It is expected this book will reach
many places, homes and individuals where
the doctrines of the Latter-day Saints, in what-
ever form presented, would not be tolerated;
for that reason it will do the most efficient
preaching to a certain class of people. Some
enthusiasm upon this subject would not be
amiss to assist in forwarding this laudable
work. The women of Utah certainly should be
able to publish their own lives. We hope to see
the sisters come forward and subscribe for this
immediately, that the work may be speedily
published and circulated.
	WE HAVE received from the author, a new
publication entitled "Overcome." The book
is published by Lovell printing and publish-
ing Co., New York. The writer is an Ameri-
can lady of prepossesing appearance and pecu-
liarly gifted in conversation. We had the
pleasure of meeting her here, when on her way
to San Francisco; she ran down to Salt Lake
for a day or two to see the "City of the Saints."
We return her our thanks for the book, and the
favorable notice given us in the "Chicago
Tribune." Her book is a gem in its way,
drawn from real life. It is a true tale, calcula-
ted to touch the heart, told in a charming and
pathetic style, and bears a similarity to many
incidents occurring in households all over the
country. If mothers and sisters can be in-
duced (and this is the author's noble design)
through earnest entreaty and the influence of


