PRESIDENT GEORGE ALBERT SMITH Eighth President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints President George Albert Smith Preston Nihley 

ONE week after the death of the Book of Mormon and relate President Heber J. Grant, at a to him the story of the wonderful meeting of the Quorum of the visions and manifestations which Twelve Apostles, held in the Salt had been given to his son, Joseph Lake Temple on Monday, May 21st, Junior. Uncle John heard the mes-1945, George Albert Smith, the sen sage of his brother and believed. He ior member and President of the and his wife and their eldest son Quorum, was sustained as the Presi George A. (after whom President dent of the Ghurch of Jesus Ghrist Smith was named) were shortly of Latter-day Saints, when the an thereafter baptized, and, in the nouncement of his selection was summer of 1833, *""Y ni%de their made known, and the news spread way to Kirtland, Ohio, the gatherabroad, universal approval and satis ing place of the saints, faction were expressed by the saints In the spring of 1839, George A. Throughout the stakes and missions Smith, twenty-one years old at the of the Church. President Smith, time, was selected to be a member who has traveled extensively during of the Quorum of the Twelve Apost-the forty-two years that he has been les by the Prophet Joseph Smith, a member of the Quorum of the and was set apart in that high calling Twelve Apostles, is widely known on April 26th of the same year by and greatly beloved. The Latterday Heber C. Kimball. Thereafter he Saints feel to give thanks in their was very active as a missionary both hearts that God has again raised up in this and in foreign lands, a new leader in Israel. Uncle John and his son, George President Smith comes from a A., experienced the persecutions of long line of faithful and devout men the saints in Missouri and Illinois, who have given their time and tal In 1847, they both came to Utah ents freely and unselfishly in for with the pioneers, George A. Being warding the great work which was a member of the original company, begun by the Prophet Joseph Smith. X*"Tien the latter returned to the His great-grandfather was John Missouri River in the fall of 1847, Smith, familiarly known in Church he located on a farm near Kanesville, history as "Uncle John," a brother Iowa, and there on September 18th, of Joseph Smith, Senior. 1848, a son was born to his wife, Uncle John was living in Pots Sarah Ann Libby, who was named dam. New York, in the summer of John Henry. The following year, 1830, peacefully pursuing his voca George A. Smith moved to Salt tion as a farmer, when his brother Lake Valley to make his permanent Joseph came from Palmyra to visit home. He brought his wife and inhim and convey a very important fant son with him. Message, to present him with a copy John Henry Smith grew to man-