The Martyrdom of Joseph Smith For Tuesday, October 2, 1945 Objective: To indicate the worth of a great testimony and its supreme value to the onward development of the Church. JOSEPH SMITH, prophet of the * nineteenth century, stood one January day in the year 1844 to address the newly appointed officers of peace for the city of Nauvoo. As mayor of the city he spoke, and within his voice was heard the prophetic tone of impending danger for himself and people. Some thirteen years had passed since the ?little flock" who first believed this modern seer had gathered at the home of Peter Whitmer that April day in 1830 to organize the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. And what bright yet bitter years these had been! Half a continent had been spanned in the march of missionary endeavor. Yes, even the Old World, too, had heard the elders sent by express command of a latter-day prophet. Now around him thousands of saints had gathered, and had builded Nauvoo, the most beautiful of cities then to be found on the rich and fertile soil of Illinois. Could it be that the time had truly come when Zion was to rejoice and but hold in memory those trying days of Kirtland and Independence? His words on this January day seemed not to indicate this for he said:... I am exposed to far greater danger from traitors among ourselves than from enemies without, although my life has been sought for many years by the civil and military authorities, priests, and people of Missouri; and if I can escape from the ungrateful treachery of assassins, I can live as Caesar might have lived, were it not for a right-hand Brutus. I have had pretended friends betray me. All the enemies upon the face of the earth may roar and exert all their power to bring about my death, but they can accomplish nothing, unless some who are among us and enjoy our society, have been with us in our councils, participated in our confidence, taken us by the hand, called us brother, saluted us with a kiss, join with our enemies, turn our virtues into faults, and, by falsehood and deceit, stir up their wrath and indignation against us, and. Bring their united vengeance upon our heads. All the hue-and-cry of the chief priests and elders against the Savior, could not bring down the wrath of the Jewish nation upon His head, and thereby cause the crucifixion of the Son of God, until Judas said unto them, "Whomsoever I shall kiss, he is the man; hold him fast.? Judas was one of the Twelve Apostles, even their treasurer, and dipt with their Master in the dish, and through his treachery, the crucifixion was brought about; and we have a Judas in our midst. (Essentials in Church History, pp. 360-361; D. H. C. Vol. VI, p. 152) What group of traitors from within would now essay the role of Judas and, pincer-like, provide the other prong of opposition to join with those mobocrats, from without to encircle and destroy the Prophet and his work? Somehow the storm of hate which ten years before had set the cry in Missouri, "the Mormons must go," now insidiously smoldered within the very councils of the Church. William Law, the Prophet's second counselor, together with his brother Wilson, William Marks, Leonard Soby, Robert Foster and others took offense at their leader's words and pulled away into a council of apostates who were secretly to pledge themselves to destroy Joseph Smith and his party; in fact, it was later discovered that William Law was in league with the Missourians who ever since the escape of the Prophet from their State had vowed to reach across the border line of Illinois and claim their man.
Realizing the price God had set upon the strength of a testament, (Hebrews 9:16-17), Joseph Smith repeatedly forewarned his followers of his coming death, first by visioning the ultimate need of a land beyond the rim of the great western mountains to which the saints might press for safety; and second, through his frequent words concerning the threats upon his own life. At a conference in October of 1843 he said, "This generation is as corrupt as the generation of Jews that crucified Christ; and if he were here today, and should preach the same doctrine he did then they would put him to death. I defy all the world to destroy the work of God; and I prophecy they shall never have power to kill me till my work is accomplished, and I am ready to die." (Essentials in Church History, p. 365; D.H.C. Vol. VI, page 58.)
Some eight months following this meeting with the saints, Joseph Smith with his brother Hyrum was martyred in Carthage Jail, having calmly willed to surrender to the Prophet's enemies in the assurance that the true priesthood and spirit of the Lord necessary to establish the Church of Jesus Christ were again on earth. His courageous mission had made this so. Now the work of God was a living reality as evidenced by testimonies of hundreds of faithful and devoted saints. The story of the swift and final days ending with the death of the Prophet will ever live in the hearts of those who love him, for with the unselfish gift of his own life, they may now lay claim upon the force of his testimony.
Let us briefly follow the steps of the story to see how boldly this modern seer of his own free will made the supreme gift for the Church of Christ he again established. It should be remembered that ever through the struggle to bring again the work of God in the latter days, the powers of evil bored from within as well as without. Men who at first were true, turned false, to join with those who ever hated the truth. With the increase of Church membership and the promise of peace and plenty for the saints mounting, fear and jealousy stole into the hearts of Joseph Smith's enemies. He had now become a figure of national interest. As lieutenant general of the Nauvoo Legion, as mayor of Nauvoo, and as candidate for the office of President of the United States, prominent citizens sought him, wondered at his wisdom, and often inwardly feared the divine power of his office as prophet of God. Those who could curry favor of him for their own advantage did so, and those who feared, sought secretly either to work upon the ignorance and hatred of fanatical mobocrats to bring about his overthrow, or, by failure to act in the cause of justice, used their office to wink at infractions of the law. Thus because of the words of weak-willed officers, the saints suffered; their Prophet time and again was arrested, then arraigned before a court of justice to stand trial, only to be set free.
So between the cross fire of writs which shuttled back and forth between the Governors of Missouri and Illinois, he threaded his way in and out of the trials where enraged deputies lay in wait to ambush him. Such had been his lot up to that January in the year of 1844.
During the months of February and March which followed, often his thoughts and acts were turned to constructive plans toward the fulfillment of the Rocky Mountain prophecy of August 6, 1842. It was decided to send some twenty-five men to explore all the mountain country, carrying the gospel message wherever they went. Any man who could "raise $500, a good horse and a mule, a double-barrel gun, one barrel rifle and the other smooth bore, a saddle, and bridle, a pair of revolving pistols, bowie-knife, and a good saber" might volunteer. Visioning the future of his people, the Prophet predicted that within five years the saints would be out of the power of their enemies, and asked that his
words might be written down that none "need not say they had forgotten the saying."
Spring of the year 1844 was to see events that led up to the fulfillment of Joseph Smith's predictions concerning his own death. Within this season came the dark combinations of apostates. Men who before had been high in the councils of the Church met at the fifth. Chauncey L. Higbee, Robert D. Foster, Joseph H. Jackson and Wilson and William Law together with Austin Cowles, Francis M. Higbee, Charles Ivins and Charles A. Foster were implicated in a conspiracy to kill the Prophet. When exposed, the first five named were excommunicated. Imbithered, they, with others, attempted to organize a church of their own with William Law at its head. Their efforts were doomed to failure. Frustrated, they then sought other means to satisfy their alleged plans, and they hit upon a malicious course of airing their hatred of the Prophet and his cause by means of the press. Their organ, the Nauvoo Expositor, appeared June 7, 1844. It was filled with vile slander aimed at Joseph Smith and many of Nauvoo's leading citizens. Striking at the most vulnerable spot in the body armor of saints, they attacked the Nauvoo Charter, a document of most liberal and far-reaching grants, under which the then thriving commonwealth on the bend of the Mississippi had come into being. The citizens of Nauvoo could not and would not accept this underhand thrust at their very existence. Within three days the city council met and declared the Expositor a public nuisance. The city marshal, John P. Greene, with a few men then proceeded to the printing office where they pied the type and burned the printed papers. The day following, Francis M. Higbee made complaint before Thomas Morrison, a justice at Carthage, for riot and destruction of the press. The warrant required the Prophet to go before Morrison or some other justice of the peace for trial. Here was the explosion the mobs were waiting for. Assemblies of mobocrats, speeches, resolutions, extermination orders for the "wicked Mormons" threatened the saints on every hand. Nauvoo was placed under martial law with its Legion mustered for protection.
In his effort to comply with the law, Joseph Smith appeared before Daniel H. Wells?a non-Mormon justice, but after hearing the case discharged the matter. Enemies of the Prophet claimed the trial was unlawful. It became necessary for Joseph to appeal to Governor Ford of Illinois for protection. In a letter dated June 16, the Prophet requested the Governor to make a trip to Nauvoo in order to halt the threatening danger of the saints. Ford came, but stopped at Carthage, where he surrounded himself with the worst apostates who, in league with the mobs, drowned any cry for justice. President Smith and all those accused were commanded to come and appear before Thomas Morrison of Carthage for trial, if not peaceably, then to the clank of muskets and force.
June 22nd found the Prophet with his brother Hyrum and eight of his close associates at a meeting in an upper room of his office. Shortly after the curfew hour, Hyrum came down from his room to the
House to greet Reynolds Cahoon with these words, "A company of men are seeking to kill my brother Joseph, and the Lord has warned him to flee to the Rocky Mountains to save his life. Good-bye Brother Cahoon, we shall see you again." (D.H.C. Vol. VI, page 547). It had been the decision of that evening to have the Prophet flee.
The next morning, the Governor's posse arrived in Nauvoo to find no Prophet. Shortly after noon that day, Emma Smith sent word by Orrin P. Rockwell to have her husband return; he having the night before just crossed the river. The most cutting part of the message bore the news that some of the leading brethren had accused the Prophet of cowardice. Realizing, then, that there would be those who would mistake the true reason for his departure, which was for the safety of his people, Joseph determined to return "and see the thing out." Hyrum stood one with him.
The next day found these two brothers with the accused members of the city council and a few friends riding to the town of Carthage. Behind them the green and pleasant city of Nauvoo lay under the warmth of an early morning sun in June. The rattle of hoofs and the stretch of saddle leather talked their recedies. It was a company of about sixty mounted militia, under the command of Captain Dunn, who reined to a stop the little party. Orders were to have the Nauvoo Legion surrender all state arms. Meekness and might again had met. The Prophet spoke:
I am going like a lamb to the slaughter, but I am calm as a summer's morning. I have a conscience void of offense toward God and toward all men. LESSON DEPARTMENT 433 If they take my life I shall die an innocent man, and my blood shall cry from the ground for vengeance, and it shall be said of me "He was murdered in cold blood!" Essentials in Church History, p. 376; D. H. C. Vol. VI, p. 555) Defenseless and at the mercy of their enemies, once more the saints found themselves as the hour of midnight saw their Prophet in Carthage ready to stand trial on the false charge of treason against the State of Illinois. The two days that followed are black upon the calendar of eternal justice. A Governor's broken pledge, an illegal summons, the impatient cruelty of a mob that would not wait for the law, all crowded the remaining earthly hours for the Prophet and Hyrum Smith as they sat in the Carthage Jail. It was after five on the afternoon of June 27. Elder John Taylor had just finished singing for the second time, at the Prophet's request, "A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief." There was a discharge of arms at the outer door of the jail. Dr. Willard Richards hastened to the window to see about one hundred armed men at the door, many with blackened faces. The guard at the door fired into the air, as a flying wedge of men burst through the door and up a flight of stairs into the room that held the Prophet and his party. Shouts rang out as a shower of bullets poured into the room. Hyrum Smith fell crying, 'l am a dead man." Joseph, struck by two balls, lunged for a window?to fall into a circle of murderers, his parting words a testimony, "O Lord, My God!" It was done. The testator of the latter day work had sealed his life's mission with blood to give enduring strength to the cause he championed. What greater gift could any prophet bestow upon his friends? Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion With the help of the suggested readings given below have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first answer the question; second read the assigned part in the text to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word." The class period for this opening les-soTT can be a very challenging one. There is within the story of the martyrdom much to be felt as well as discussed. The great shock of learning how innocent men were struck down by the very ones who ought to have loved them for the words of life they had taught can but leave the heart hurt and the mind forever wondering. There can be no real end to the brutal story of the death of Joseph and Hyrum Smith. Such a lesson as this will bear rereading many times just as the tragic news bore retelling many times during those last days of June in the year 1844. I. What are the personal blessings you now possess which will always put you in the debt of the Prophet Joseph Smith? One or two from each person will provide interesting facts to be discussed. Following this oral report have section 135 of the Doctrine and Covenants read. 2. Discuss the meaning of Hebrews 9:16-17 in the light of Doc. And Gov. 135. The following question may be used if needed for further class activity or it may be assigned for home study: What are some of the significant interesting events that led up to the final days of martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum Smith? Read chapters 31 to 35 in Essentials in Church History by Joseph Fielding Smith. & Visiting Teachings? Messages Sources of Strength?Charity Dr. Lowell L. Bennion Preview of Lessons for 1945-1946 MESSAGES for visiting teachers this year are based on Paul's masterful and inspiring discourse on charity found in I Corinthians, chapter 13. The subject is appropriate, for charity, as Paul defines it, lies at the heart of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Then, too, the Relief Society was organized, above all other reasons, to cultivate and express the spirit of charity. In this preview we shall consider the meaning of charity and give an overview of the messages which are to follow. What did Paul mean by the word "charity"? It is clear that its meaning was not restricted to almsgiving as it sometimes is today. This is evident from Paul's early statement: "And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing." To Paul charity also meant more than generosity and tolerance, attitudes which are implied in the expression?a charitable heart. Paul used charity as we use the word love. Such was the meaning of charity in 1611 when the King James translation of the Bible was made. More modern translations of the Bible use the word love because of the more restricted meaning which has come to be associated with the word charity. Thus "love" is a synonym for "charity," although charity seems to have its own distinctive meaning as well (See Moroni 7:47). Love is the greatest principle of the gospel of Jesus Christ. For this assertion we have the word of the Master himself. It is interesting to contemplate what a certain lawyer may have anticipated as an answer to the question he put to Jesus, "Master, which is the great commandment in the law?" Did he, perhaps, expect Jesus to quote one of the Ten Commandments? If so, he must have been surprised to hear the answer. "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets" (Matthew 22:35-40). The lawyer may well have been surprised, but not because these commandments were new, for they are included in the Mosaic law in Deuteronomy 6:5 and in Leviticus 19:18, respectively. The new thing in Jesus' restatement of these ancient laws was that he brought them together, made the second like unto the first, and made everything else in the Law of Moses and the Prophetic writings depend on these LESSON DEPARTMENT 435 two, on love. Love was to be the matrix, the warp and woof, and the heart and spirit of life. The apostle Paul, recognized for his faith in Christ, also knew that this faith must lead to love and must always be accompanied by love to be of worth, as he declared: "... And though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing." (I Cor. 13:2) "For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this; Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself (Galatians 5:14). A world ravaged by war and filled with hate is starving for love and charity. Children, parents, neighbors, fellow-Church members, the stranger within our gates, the widow, the orphan, the returning soldier, and our "enemies" all need the charity Paul describes. What do we mean by charity? How can we express our charity in daily life? These are questions to discuss through the year. The answers are suggested in this year's topics: 1.