Our Literature Before the Bible Came A study reaching back into the legendary past?when our days were named ? and songs and sagas in vigorous, alternative lines were created. Typical selections from this folklore will be used in portraying the background of primitive thought, feeling, and ideals which were later to be illumined, shaped, and spiritualized through the influence of the Bible. Lesson 2. How the Bible Is Woven Into Our Literature A study of both the outward and inward phases of the shaping of our literature through the influence of the Bible. Such more tangible aspects, as Biblical allusions and expressions, as well as those more spiritual in nature. Biblical themes and ideals, will receive attention in this lesson. Lesson 3. Bible Influence as Revealed in Our Lyric Literature A study of typical songs inspired by stories and living truths of the Bible. Selections to impress the depth and breadth of its influence in the creation of our lyric literature will be made from the classic carols on through the years down to the present. Some precious lyrics will be included in the lesson for special consideration. Lesson 4. Bible Influence on Our Epic or Narrative Poetry This study will center attention on certain outstanding poet story-tellers who were markedly influenced by the Bible in their creative work. Chaucer, Milton, Tennyson, Longfellow are among these. A limited selection of their well-known story poems will be used to make the message of this lesson clear and concrete. Lesson 5. Bible influence in Our Drama This study, beginning with brief attention to the old plays created to impress Bible stories, will specifically deal with other dramas through the years centering around Biblical characters and themes. Attention will also be given to the influence of the Bible in shaping and spiritualizing dramas that grip and hold the hearts of humanity. Lesson 6. Bible Influence on Our Fiction This study naturally, like those preceding, must be severely limited to consideration of a few typical and worthy novels whose themes or central characters are essentially Biblical. Its range will be from tested earlier fiction to present creations which reveal classic qualities. Brief attention will be given to the more general spiritual influence on other worthy fiction. Lesson 7. Bible Influence on Essays and Oratory Again the scope of the lesson will be restricted to the study of a few inspiring types of the essay and to certain outstanding orations that show plainly Bible influence. These will be taken from past and recent literature of these two important kinds of expression. Reliance of great writers and speakers on the Book of Books will be made clear. Lesson 8. Bible Influence in Literature for Children A forward-pointing study to help parents get closer to the book companions of their children and grandchildren. Children's literature, except for Mother Goose and Fairy Tales, is mainly of more recent creation. What of the Bible influence is revealed in most of the books produced for children today? In this lesson, directed opportunity will be given to make some selective research to answer this question, and out of it to bring to our children more well-written, Bible-inspired literature of living appeal for them. Text and References First, the lessons themselves are to be the guiding text. Each of these units should be carefully studied by teacher and members of class. Questions for study should be thoroughly considered before the lesson is given; and the suggested activities carried through, both before and after the lesson. Second, for general references the following will be found most helpful: The Bible?King James Version (also Modern Reader's Bible ?"by Moulton). General reference books may be added later. Note: Specific references will be given with each lesson. Lesson I?Our Literature Before the Bible Came For Tuesday, October 16, 1945 TN one of Longfellow's Tales of A Wayside Inn, "The Saga of King Olaf' is a poetic portrayal of the bringing of Christianity to the "Land of the Long Night." This old tale, first told to Longfellow, it is said, by the famed Norwegian violinist, Ole Bull, reveals that the message of our Master was carried into that stern realm not by any meek spirit, but by a hard-hitting viking. LESSON DEPARTMENT 439 Ringing lines from the lyric which opens the Saga, suggest the contest that lay ahead of this champion of the gospel. They sound also a keynote for this course. THE CHALLENGE OF THOR I am the God Thor. I am the War God". I am the Thunderer, Here in my northland. My fastness and fortress Reign I forever! Jove is my brother; Mine eyes are the lightning; The wheels of my chariot Roll in the thunder, The blows of my hammer Ring in the earthquake! Force rules the world still, Has ruled it, shall rule it; Meekness is weakness, Strength is triumphant. Over the whole earth Still is it Thor's-Day! Thou, art a God, too, O Galilean! And thus single-handed Unto the combat. Gauntlet or Gospel, Here I defy thee! Following this vigorous lyric, in spirit and form suggestive of songs of the long-ago Norseland, comes a stirring ballad, sketching Olaf's adventurous youth, and a spiritual awakening which led to his leadership in carrying the cause of Christ into his homeland. Opening lines of this ballad are: KING OLAF'S RETURN And King Olaf heard the cry. Saw the red light in the sky. Laid his hand upon his sword, As he leaned upon the railing. And his ships went sailing, sailing Northward into Drontheim fjord. There he stood as one who dreamed; And the red light glanced and gleamed On the armor that he wore; And he shouted, as the rifted Streamers o'er him shook and shifted, "I accept thy challenge, Thor!" With swiftly moving lines, the ballad goes on to tell how Olaf's mother, Queen Astrid, after her husband, king of Norway, had been slain by a usurper, fled with her son to a haven with "Hakon old"; how, still pursued, she again fled, this time to be captured and enslaved. Later, Olaf as a boy was recognized and restored to freedom by an uncle. Then he became a roving viking, and finally converted in Sicily by a hermit, was baptized into Christianity. Fired with the purpose of avenging his father, reclaiming his realm, and spreading the gospel through the reconquered nation, Olaf had come with his ships and fighting followers back to old Norway. He would illumine that region of the 'long night" with what had enlightened his own life. What the ideals, the inlook and outlook on life, of the rugged Northland folk were before Christianity came is mirrored in literature they created. Fortunately, in the Icelandic Eddas preserved for us, we have a wealth of their myths and legends, expressed in their vigorous, forthright style, to get us closer to their feelings and thoughts?their gods and heroes. And these same gods and heroes were in the main the very ones worshipped by not only the Scandinavian peoples, but by all Teutonic folk. In the Nihdungenlied a main source of the tales portrayed in the Wagnerian operas, are the same basic stories and characters as those in the Norse sagas. Anglo-Saxons, from whom came the English and Lowland Scotch, carried these tales across the Channel when they made their conquest of England. This, so far as we know, was their earliest literature. And it still is actively with us. Indeed, we pay something of tribute, though mainly without thought of it, to certain of the mythical Teutonic gods in our names of the days. Nature worship with something of mysticism seems woven into the conceptions of these deities of the Northland. Baldur, god of the sun, beloved for the light and warmth he brought to the Land of the Long Night, was honored in Sunday, first day of the week. Monday was named for Mani, a beautiful youth, who rode his shining steed, Alswider, across the night sky. Tyr, courageous war god, who gave an arm to assure the binding of the terrible Fenris Wolf, is remembered in Tuesday. Wodan, the all-father, with the ravens. Thought and Memory, on his shoulders, and with valiant heroes slain in battle, and beautiful shield-maidens, the Valkyries, ever about him, is perpetuated in Wednesday. Thor, fighter of frost giants, whose beard flares in the northern lights, whose eyes flash in the lightning, gave his name to Thursday. Freya, goddess of love and beauty, who rides through the sunny skies of spring and summer scattering flowers and fruits and bringing bird songs to cheer the northern realm, is remembered in Friday. Saturday, reserved for the last day of the week, comes from Surtur, fiery leader of the forces of evil, who, the gods ever feared, might break forth with destructive power in the last days upon their nine worlds. Confronted with conceptions such as these descriptions suggest, the bearers of our Savior's message had a difficult mission to implant principles of the everlasting gospel. Olaf, meeting Thor's challenge with blow for blow, succeeded in winning back his kingdom, and in making Christianity the official religion of his realm. Real conversion, as always, was a slower process. It had to come by weaving into the lives of the people the principles and practices of true religion. No small part of this was done through the infusion of the story and the spirit of the Savior into the national holidays. Yuletide, for example, which through untold years had been a time of feasting and drinking and wild revelry in celebration of the annual victory of Thor over the Frost Giants, was now commemorated as Christmas, in honor of Christ who came to bring "Peace on earth, good will toward men." Easter, likewise, was made no longer just a celebration of the advent of spring, with joyous pageantry in honor of the beautiful goddess Oestara. It was a holy day in soulful remembrance of the resurrection of our Savior. Another profoundly significant phase of this spiritualizing development came through the intrinsic changes wrought in our literature. Just as the old gods of Greece and Rome fell in both a material and a spiritual sense as Christianity rose, so did the gods of the Northland rather suddenly disappear. Only in Iceland, separated from the mainland by about eight hundred miles of ocean, did the sagas persist in 
original form for some centuries. That is why these stories are best preserved in the Icelandic Eddas.
Like the classic mythology of the Greeks, these sagas are, from in art viewpoint, great literature. They reflect the culture, the customs, the emotional life and ideals of that long ago. Something of a natural poetic skill was in the ancient skalds who created the strange stories. They had ample time to practice the art of story-telling during the long nights. And, since there was no printing press then, it had to be not story-reading, but story-telling.
One of the choice old tales out of the Northland impresses the basic value and the need for more such story-telling in our lives. In this mythical tale we are told that at one time, the gods, to commemorate a decisive victory over the Frost Giants, decided to create a man. It was agreed that, when the new being had been fashioned in his earthly image, each god should endow him with some precious gift. So they came, one after another to fulfill this pledge. One of the gods touched the lips of the newly created man that he might have the gift of speech; another touched his throat that he might sing. A third god touched his eyes that he might see; not only with his outward, but his inward or spiritual eye; still another touched his heart that he might have sympathy for all creatures.
And, lo, when this man spoke, it was as no other had done before. In his words one could hear the song of birds, the whispering of the breezes, the roar of the ocean, the prattle of children. All the music of man and of nature at the same time. In wondrous voice, and he became the first poet.
Basic truth is in this old tale. The poet does portray in musical lines the life he knows. In consonance with this, one feels through these sagas the courageous struggle with harsh elements?cold and darkness. Winds howl and breakers crash on rocky shores. Then comes ecstasy with the advent of the brief seasons of sunshine and revelry. Heroes of battle are extolled and tragedy accepted with something of a fatalistic attitude. Extravagant exploits are detailed, all to help while away the lengthened hours. In keeping with some of the "tall tales" and radio story-acting today, these old sagas were primarily for pastime. They gave entertainment?rather than recreation.
Had our literary development stopped there, it would have never been completely soul-satisfying; Entertainment is wanted, but not that alone. What was lacking to round out and enrich literature of long ago was just what the Bible brought. It was an infusion of spirituality, new conceptions of life, the message of the Savior. That these stalwart folk of a new life came to bring to minds to new heights.
Discussion and Activities
1. (a) Why may our English literature be said to have its roots in Teutonic lore? (b) In what ways are the mythological gods and heroes of the Icelandic Eddas and the Nibelungenlied kept in daily remembrance by English-speaking folk? Illustrate.
2. (a) What essential message is given by these mythical gods? Illustrate. (b) Which of the Commandments does this story emphasize? What are the aims it turning folk from the worship of such deities? 3. Which lines in "The Challenge of Thor" suggest a basic cause for much of the conflict that has raged in the world from long ago until now? 4. What battle line in Europe was named for a Teutonic hero round whom an epic was created in legendary times? Tell briefly something of the story. 5. Olaf, as a fighting viking, opened the way for Christianity into his realm. What more was needed to bring the followers of Thor to accept and practice the gospel principles in their lives? Tell, for illustration, how their holidays were changed to help implant the story of the Savior, 6. (a) What is the basic difference between literature that merely entertains and that which brings real recreation? (b) To which type did the old Norse tales in the main belong? (c) What helpful guidance is greatly needed in our literature-reading practices of today? Suggested Activities 1. Read aloud the ballad "King Olaf's Return" in Longfellow's Tales oi A Wayside Inn, observing the viking spirit, the story, and musically descriptive lines. 2. Find some tale from the Northland and read it. In any of the following books, or some school reader, such stories may be found: Myths from Northern Lands, Guerber, American Book Co. Old Norse Stones, Mabie, Rand Mc-Nally Co. Age of Fable, Bullfinch, E. P. Button (Everyman's Library). Story of Siegfried, Baldwin, Scribners.