Patterns of Prejudice and Persecution Lesson aim: To emphasize the prevalence of bigotry in the modern world and to show how its existence stands as a threat to democracy, Christianity, and the good life. Lesson 9. Problems oi Personal Conduct Lesson aim: To stress the importance of personal cleanliness, balanced conduct, and self control to the good life. Lesson 10. Leisure and Morals. Lesson aim: To demonstrate a relationship between modes of recreation and morality, and to suggest ways for improving the morals of society by making better use of leisure time. Lesson 11. Women and Morals Lesson aim: To analyze some of the social and moral problems peculiar to women in this modem world, and to emphasize woman's moral role and responsibility in the field of ethics. Lesson 12. Morals In Marriage and Family Relationships Lesson aim: To analyze our most basic social institution from the standpoint of moral conduct, listing some of the common faults, and pointing out some of the principles necessary for correction. Lesson 13. Some Broader Applications of Social Ethics Lesson aim: To examine some of the inequalities and inhumanities existent in the world today, and to show that justice, when not violated, leads to both peace and happiness. Lesson 14. Morality and the Church Lesson aim: To examine religion as a moral force in life; and to point out some of the pitfalls, as well as principles, in religious ethics. Discussion questions and references at the end of each lesson are given to stimulate and guide in a general way rather than to prescribe or limit the work of the class. The teacher should read as widely as is practicable, using Church literature day Saint viewpoint, eliminating, and library materials freely. But and adapting materials as the needs she will need to be discriminating and interests of the class reveal also; sifting according to the Latter themselves. Lesson 8?Patterns of Prejudice and Persecution For Tuesday, October 23, 1945 Lesson link: Last year's lessons in this department were based upon the belief that much of the world's sorrow and suffering could be alleviated by a quick and complete return to virtue. It has been through deserting the great moral principles of the ages that individuals and nations have got into trouble, and the only way that this trouble can be dissolved and real happiness brought to the earth is by an enriched understanding of moral principles and a genuine willingness to apply them in life. Lesson aim: To emphasize the prevalence of bigotry in the modern world and to show how its existence stands as a threat to democracy, Christianity, and the good life. PREJUDICE means pre-judgment on the basis of bias, or without sufficient examination or understanding of a thing. Persecution refers to the act of annoying, oppressing, or attacking someone else to cause him injury or suffering. Prejudice is a perversion of truth and persecution is a desertion of the brotherhood principle. Both are immoral.
"Why persecutest thou me?"
These words of the Lord to Saul might well be applied to many of us in this modern day. Saul, it will be remembered, was prejudiced against the saints and had been persecuting them bitterly for some time. Then, while on the road to Damascus, he was accosted by the Lord who gave him to understand that persecution of the saints was at the same time a persecution of the Saviour. Saul repented, was converted, and later became an apostle in the church (Acts, chapter 9). But just as Saul offended city and worked against his own salvation by harming his fellow men, so do those today who, failing to catch the vision of a Christian world and the spirit of brotherhood which is an essential part of it, remain intolerant and antagonistic toward their fellow men. Selfishness, ingratitude, intolerance, discrimination, oppression?all of these and more are marks of prejudice and persecution. They are offensive to God and are a mockery of morality, and yet the world is full of them and their kind. Unless altruism can push aside selfishness, love outdo hate, and world brotherhood supplant provincialism and the exploitation of peoples, the future will not be bright and mankind will not find the peace and happiness to which it is entitled.
Personal Animosity