NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE judiciary committe of the Illinois
Senate has reported favorably on the bill to
extend township and municipal suffrage to
women.
	REV. OLYMPIA BROWN will have the
sympathy of many friends in the loss of her
husband, Mr. Willis.
	WE note with regret the suspension of
the Arkansas Woman's Chronicle, at the
end of its fifth year.  It was bright, witty,
wise and sweet-tempered, and has been an
ever-welcome visitor to our sanctum.  The
health of the over-burdened editor has failed,
and rest and change have become impera-
tive for her.  The Chronicle has “fought a
good fight.” May it be able to return to
the field with renewed vigor!—Ex.
	The Countess of Aberdeen lends the
force of her example and voice to the cause
of woman suffrage.  She thinks women
owe it to themselves and to the public to
take part in politics. 
	CAMILLA COLLETT, the Norwegian writer
who has been called the “Mme. de Sevigne
of Norway,” was 80 years old a few weeks
ago, and a great festival was held in Christi-
ana to celebrate the day.  She has worked
all her life for the enfranchisement of wo-
men.  Henrik Ibsen was present at the
banquet given in her honor, and the town
was illuminated by a long procession of
students bearing torches.
	MRS. LUCY STONE gave a talk before the
Boston, Massachusetts,  Ministers Monday
Club not long since on “Equal Suffrage
for Women.”
	It is announced that the English women
who are preparing for the art exhibit at
Chicago have selected the following pictures
for the Woman’s Building to exemplify the
achievements of their sex with the brash
aud palette “To the Front,” by Lady
Butler, the fine representation of a detach-
ment of cavalry riding out of the gate of
an old town in Brittany; “A Regatta,” by
Miss Montalba “Browning’s Palace at
Venice,” by Miss Clara Montalba; and a
portrait study by Miss Hilda Montalba; the
much-admired portrait of a child, by Miss
Alice Grant; “Eurydice,” by Henrietta
Rae; “Molly’s Bail Dress,” by Mrs.
Perugini, and an exquisite little scene of a
cottage garden by Mrs. Allingham.—Ex.
	An English salt concern has made a salt
statue, modeled after Bartholdi’s Liberty-
Enlightening the World,” in New York
harbor.  The statue is 5 1/2 feet high and
stands on a rock salt base 7 feet high. The
salt was taken from a mine 250 feet deep.
The English firm will send it as an exhibit
to-the World’s Fair.


