			BIRTHDAY.

	TO-DAY, March 1st, 1893, is the anniver-
sary of the birthday of President Wilford
Woodruff the venerable Apostle and Presi-
dent of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints. Every true saint through-
out Zion, rejoices that his useful life has
been prolonged to see the day in which so
many wonderful things are transpiring, and
especially to see the near completion of the
Temple erected in this city for which he
has manifested such intense interest, and a
great desire to live and participate in the
glorious blessings and privileges pertaining
thereto.
	The President’s life has been a most
eventful one, and though he is one of the
most unassuming of men, he has risen
meritoriously to the highest and most
responsible position in the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-Day Saints. In all places
and at all times in prosperity as well as ad-
versity he has ever manifested the humility
and childlike spirit of a man of God, and
this individual characteristic has intensified
the love of the people towards him and in-
creased their reverence for his counsel and
their ardent desire that his life be spared
to lead Israel yet many years now that the
dedication is so near the feeling of confi-
dence is strengthened that their prayers in
his behalf are sure to be answered, and that
he will be able to dedicate the House of the
Lord which he has so carefully watched
the progress in building, and which was
finished during his administration.
	President Wilford Woodruff comes of the
good staunch, old Puritan stock, which is
very apparent in his habits, customs and
manner generally to one who knows the
New England people and their characteris-
tics.
	President Woodruff was bom on the first
of March, 1807, at Avon, Hartford County
Connecticut, a most romantic and interesting
part of the country. His boyhood was
spent upon a farm just as that of many of the
greatest men of America has been.


Today he celebrates his eighty sixth anni-
versary and has arranged, by invitation, for
a gathering of his brethren of the Apostles,
and some other brethren and sisters at his
handsome residence in the suburbs of the
City.
	The EXPONENT offers the most sincere
congratulations to the veteran and beloved
leader and President of the Church, and
may his valuable life be prolonged until he
shall see the utmost desire of his heart grat-
ified concerning the work in which he has
borne so important a part.
	The birthday anniversary of the President
was also by a singular coincidence the birth-
day of his wife, Sister Emma Woodruff,
though she is many years younger than her
husband. Truly her lot has fallen in pleas-
ant places, and the writer congratulates her
on having attained such distinction in the
Church in connection with her husband,
and may her blessings continue to multiply
as the years roll on.
	In our next issue we shall be able to give
some particulars concerning the birthday
party which will doubtless be a very happy
affair, as it almost invariably is when old
friends and co-laborers meet together for
social enjoyment.


