			RICH AND RARE-
	THE gems I allude too, are those our
Father in Heaven has bestowed upon us;
they are richer, and rarer, than any the
wealthier mines of earth can produce.
They are many and varied and, to those
who possess, all, or even a few of them,
priceless. The most worthy among them
is Existence.
	Life, is the highest of earth’s good, it is
so lusciously sweet, and the world is so
beautifully, and lovingly, composed. The
great pulse of nature finds a ready response
in the human breast, which often
shouts for joy and is answered by a thous-
and echoes and a thousand songs sweeter
than those of the Nightingale. 
	We see the earth awake from slumber
and she trembles for joy. Her flowers are
hymns, with which in her inspiration she
greets the Sun. Oh, world, hate me, mock
me, but let me live! All vigorous souls
love life. Even old age is beautiful—beau-
tiful as the slow coming, mellow, autumn
after a rich and glorious summer.
	It is beautiful, but not the most beautiful,
there is another life, rough and thorny,
trodden with bleeding feet, the life of
which the cross is the symbol, and which
the grave gapes to finish before the victory
is won, and this is the highest life of man.
Among all the nations of the earth there is
none whose lives have been other than
this, one and all, their fate has been the
same, all have drank of the same bitter cup.
	The next in value is love, pure unselfish
love, the most God like of which is mater-
nal love. It is beyond all philosophy to
solve the wonderful, and beautiful mystery
of maternal love, which is so common and
yet so sublime. A child may come into
the world blemished or deformed, it matters
not to this heavenly passion of motherhood;
it is her child, that is all sufficient.
	The new born human being, meets upon
the threshold of life a love inexhaustible in
its tenderness which makes its cradle like
the couch of a prince. Love is the oldest
instinct of creation, and is descended from
the Maker’s own Word. It has been truly
said by one of the poets.
	“The hand that made us left no trace

[column two]
divine, in him who lives on earth, and
loveth not,” Scott says “Love is Heaven
and Heaven is love.”
	There are two which sparkle and flash in
the diadems of thought, the one is Truth,
the other Poetry. When the soul comes
into living contact with Truth, or Fact,
there springs up in it a thrill of joy, a glow
of emotion, and the expression of that
thrill, that glow is Poetry. The range of
poetic emotion is as wide as the range of
human thought, as of existence, Poetry is
the bloom, and fragrance, of human
thoughts, human knowledge, emotions,
passions, and language. It is the ambrosia
served at the banquet of human life.
	The meeting of the human soul with
truth is so delightful, they are so akin,
that when they recognize each other, the
result is this thrill of joy, this pure and
high emotion, this suggestion of the
nature of the soul, and its origin.
	I have only space, or time, in a paper like
this to emphasize a few of the gems our
Father has given us for our adornment, yet
there are many well worth examining, and
considering, both for their beauty and the
influence they have upon our lives, among
these, and in the joint ranks are, Holiness,
Faith, Hope, Charity, Benevolence,
Literary Taste, and Sorrow. Is sorrow a
gem, you will ask doubtless! I answer ‘yes’!
for it is the substance of our natural life,
and may almost be called the natural ca-
pability of the supernatural.
	No poetry finds its way into a human
mind, unless it has a burden of sorrow in it.
	All that is touching, pathetic, or dramatic
in life has to do with sorrow. The power
of art is in the sorrowful. To glorify
sorrow is one of the functions of song, of
sculpture, and painting.
	Sorrow is the poetry of a creation which
has fallen, of a race which is in exile, in a
vale of tears, closed in at the end by a
sunless defile which we call death. And is
not our redemption the outcome of sorrow?
God gave us both tears and laughter.
Laughter enables mirth to breathe freely,
so tears enable sorrow to vent itself
patiently. Sorrow is a condition of time,
and joy is the condition of eternity. Sor-
row lies in exile from God, joy in union
with Him. In heaven, it is said, joy will
cast out sorrow, and yet there is not a lot
on earth from which sorrow has been able
altogether to banish joy.
