From Salt Lake she moved to Round Valley,
Morgan Co. She was one of the Pioneers to
Hooper, Weber Co. coming to this place in 1869.
In August, 1871, the Relief Society was organized
and she was one of the first teachers chosen, in
which capacity she labored unlil the day of her
death; she would sometimes walk two aud three
miles, when she was over seventy-five years of
age, to get to her meetings; she died as she had
lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint. A loving
mother and a friend to the poor and needy; she
leaves one son and nine grand children to mourn
her loss, she will be missed by all.
	DIANTHA A. MUNSEE, Sec.
Editor Woman's Evponent:—
	IT is with sad feelings that we announce the
death of our beloved sister and co-laborer Han-
nah Maria Russell Marchant who died Feb. 22nd,
1893.
	She came from England to Utah when she was
a young girl, and has lived in Peoa ever since.
	She was born August 6th, 1850. She mar-
ried John A. Marchant November, 1867, was the
mother of eleven children, six of whom are left
to mourn her loss. She was a member of Peoa
Relief Society from its organization and held the
office of Secretary about twelve years; and per-
formed the duties of that office to the best of
her ability. She was faithful and true to every
obligation in life.
	We shall miss her in every gathering, she was


helpful to the poor and willing to do all she could
to aid the sick and suffering. We realize our
loss is her gain, so we say rest in peace. 
	LYDIA E. WALKER Prest. R. S. 
	HARRIET M. MARCHANT, Sec.
	DIED in Kanosh Millard Co. Utah, Dec. 11th,
1892. Elizabeth Turner Barney daughter of Wal-
ter and Lydia Turner, born in Mattison Town-
ship, Green Co. Ohio, July 30th, 1808. She was
married to Lewis Barney in 1833, by whom, she
had six children, three of whom are living, Wal-
ter in Arizona, Henry and Joseph in Kanosh,
her son William Orson fourteen years old was
slain by Indians, in Circle Valley Utah, while
seeking the cows, in the year 1865. Sister Barney
joined the Church with her husband either in the
year 1843 or early in 1844, near Nauvoo and passed
through the mobbings and drivings, and uncom-
plainingly bore the privations and sufferings inci-
dent to those years of persecution. Came on to
Council Bluffs in 1846 and resided at Bullock's
Grove three or four years, moved to Six Mile
Grove, and came on to Utah in 1852 came to Span-
ish Fork and resided there about ten years; came
on south to Circle Valley and resided there until
driven out by hostile Indians. Afterward settled
in Kanosh where she has resided up to the time
of her death. Sister Barney was eminently a wo-
man of peace, of unwavering faith in the Gospel
as restored to earth through the Prophet Joseph
Smith and died with the hope of a glorious resur-
rection. COM.


