THE LAND OF MONTEZUMA.

	LEAVING Salt Lake via. of the Rio
Grande and Colorado Midland, east to
Colorado Springs, thence south on the Santa
Fe, three days travel brings us to the city
of El Paso Texas; this is a town of con-
siderable size and not unlike some of our
western cities with all the adjuncts of so
called civilization, Sectarian Churches,
liquor saloons, gambling halls &c. Tak-
ing the street car from this point ten
minutes ride crossing the Rio Grande river,
lands us, as it were, into a new world,
another people speaking another language
different style of Architecture, different
mode of agriculture, manner, amusements
and religion all have a tendency to impress
one that they are not in the Ustadas Uni-
das del Morte.
	Here again a man becomes a child to
learn to talk is the ever ambition of young
Americans, a new field of study if diligent-
ly followed up will aid in developing the


mind, broadening the ideas until he shall
look upon his fellowman in any land or
clime with a spirit of liberality.
	The ringing of the bells going to Church
and see the people going through their
mode of worship on a Sunday morning al-
though they do not have the true gospel of
Christ, their dress, devotion and manner
makes the impression that they are an
earnest religious people.
	The playing of the bands, the shouting
of the boys promenading on the streets and
public places, the great gatherings to see
man pitted in the Arena, against the brute
beast the afternoon of the same day, has a
tendency to make one change his opinion;
we may ask, what kind of an example do
they see when they look to the north with
our boasted civilization and see man pitted
in the Arena against his fellow man in
deadly combat? Leaving these brutal sports
we pass on south from the American line,
two or three hundred miles, here the climate
has changed, old Sol throws his genial
rays on Mother Earth and the husbandman
clad in the lightest of wearing appearel,
reaps his corn, picks his cotton, sows his
wheat, and garden seeds in succession from
October to April.
	On the 6th, of March of the present
year, your humble servant left this beautiful
land the air scented with blossoms of fruits
and flowers to find that winter’s storm king
still held his grip and apparently reigns
supreme in the mountains and valleys of
the west.				FRANCESCO.


