A GOLDEN WEDDING.

	THE elderly people of our little town,
Orderville, gathered at the residence of
Brother Isaiah Bowers to celebrate the Gold-
en Wedding of our beloved brother and
sister Hersiger, on the 17th, of September.
We had a good time, the program consisted
of songs, recitations and speeches appropri-
ate for the occasion, and a biographical
sketch, by the honored couple of their
former lives which was very interesting.
There were a good many useful presents
given to them.  They felt very happy for
the honor bestowed upon them for they are
very lonely with no children to cheer them
in their declining years and no relatives in
this country.
	The company sat down to a well filled
table of the good things of this world; after
supper was over, there was a beautiful
cake presented to the bride.
	The day was spent with joy and gladness
and all went home feeling well.
The following article was composed for
the occasion, by H. E. Hoyt.

Hand in hand a youth and maiden,
	Fifty years ago to day,
Started out upon life’s journey,
	With their hearts so light and gay
For they knew not of the trials,
	Which the tempter brings to bear,
Upon those whom he would conquer,
	How he does their feet ensnare.


Side by side those two have wandered,
	From the darkness into light,
Side by side they've fought and conquered,
	Now their path is clear and bright;
Side by side they have pressed onward,
	Up the rugged hill of life,
Side by side they've cheered each other,
	Passing by all care and strife.
Side by side through years of darkness,
	E'er the glorious light of truth,
Came to bless them with its beauties
	Bringing more than joys of youth.
Side by side they still are walking,
	Fifty years have passed and gone;
Still their hearts with love are beating,
	As they calmly journey on.
Though no children gather round them,
	Many friends are numbered here,
And they love them for their goodness,
	With a love that is sincere.
Side by side may they still travel,
	'Till our Father calls them home,
With that happy joyful greeting
	Enter in "thou hast well done."
	CLARISSA WILHELM.
German Star please copy.


