THE FLORENTINE REFORMER
(Concluded.)
	ON the 1st of August 1489 when he had
consented to preach where greater num-
bers might find room, the church was so
crowded that people laying hold of the iron
railings hung from them as well as they
could in their desire to hear.  it was then
he preached upon a passage in Revelations.
Three things he suggested that created a
furore.  "That the Church of God required
renewal and that immediately.  Second that
all Italy should be chastised.  Third that
this should soon come to pass."
	The excitement produced was very great.
The Florentines were totally unused to the
natural eloquence of a preacher who rejected
all traditions and poured forth floods of
fiery words inspired by his subject possessed
by what he had to say, too much in earnest
to think of taste, literature or style—or any-
thing except that with which he was bound
to tell his auditors, and which to them and
to him is a matter of life and death, "this is
at all times a wonderful and impressive
spectacle."  No simulation can attain the
same effect, the fervor may be vulgar, it may
be associated with narrow views and a
limited mind, but wherever it exists in great
or small in learned or unlearned, the man
possessed by it has a power over his fellow-
men which nothing else can equal.  Savon-
arola's whole soul was concentrated upon the
real evils around him, and riveted upon
Florence in particular, the sins, strifes,
frauds and violence; she was enslaved and
corrupt and the preacher's soul was burning
with the extravagant love of civic freedom
he loved her and he could not endure the
shame of her impurity.  Burlamacchi says
the grace of God appeared in the lofty words


[Column 1]
and profound thoughts which he gave forth,
his voice was clear, and his tongue rapid,
but every one understood him, he en-
raptured the very soul of every one who
heard him so that wonders and amazing
appearances were seen by many while he
was in the act of preaching. He was to
them an Apostle, some believed they saw
an angel on either side of him as he
preached. Some saw the Madonna in glory,
blessing him with fair, uplifted hands when
he blessed the worshipers around.
	The crowds became so large that he re-
moved to the Duomo where he preached
during eight years, this cathredal was ex-
actly suited to such an impassioned speaker,
and listeners so intent. It is dark, majestic,
mythical a little light coming in through
the windows gorgeous in their deep color,
the vast area bare and naked, fit to be
filled with a silent Italian crowd a mass of
characteristic Tuscan faces vigorous, harsh
but seldom beautiful. One can imagine
the great voice lighting up a glow of
passionate feeling in those responsive gleam-
ing eyes, the sound coming out of the dark
circle under the dome and resounding over
the heads of the crowd which filled the
nave. No scene could suit meet the
superb bareness of the place.
	Savonarola was often greatly exercised at
his own prophecies and attempted to re-
strain the flood which would thus curbed,
break forth fiercer than ever; the very tu-
mults that rose against him excited and
stimulated his followers. Burlamacchi’s des-
cription of the crowds who flocked to hear
him set the picture distinctly before us.
	The people got up in the middle of the
night to get places for the sermon, and
came to the door of the cathedral, waiting
outside till it should be opened, making no
account of any inconvenience, neither of the
cold nor the wind nor of standing in winter
with their feet on the marble; and among
them were young and old, women and
children of every sort, who came with such
jubilee and rejoicing, that it was bewilder-
ing to hear them; going to the sermon as to
a wedding. Then the silence was great in
the church each one going to his place, and
he who could read, with a taper in his hand,
read the service and other prayers. And
though many thousand people were there
collected together, no sound was to be
heard, not even a hush until the arrival of
the children, who sang hymns with so much
sweetness that heaven seemed to have
opened. Thus they waited three or four
hours until the preacher entered the pulpit.
And the attention of so great a mass of
people all with eyes and ears intent upon
the preacher was wonderful; they listened so
that when the sermon reached its end, it
seemed to them it had scarcely begun.”
	There were men in Florence not at all
likely to be carried away with any common
craze after a popular preacher, whose hearts
ached over the evils of the times, were
voiceless by nature, but sick at heart and
sad at the daily sight of the corruption
round them who percieved in the cowled
Dominican an ally and spokesman beyond
their hopes. One of these was Prospero
Petti canon of the cathedral, who for years
had borne his homely testimony against the
evils of the time, and prophesied as many
humble prophets do of the vengeance of
God overtaking the wicked. He was a firm
believer in the old tradition that the true
vicar of Christ was to come to avenge sin
and make the church glorious. When he

[Column 2]
heard the voice of Savonarola intoning with
prophetic force, he bent his head between
his hands and after an interval turning to
his nephew Carlo Petti at his side said,
“This is the holy prophet of whom
have talked to you for years. Many
such wonderful things and sayings
transpired at that period, and though the
truths proclaimed and the converts made
were not so many perhaps or so wide spread
as afterwards under Martin Luther and
others, still it was dissenting from the evils
of the Roman Catholic church, which had
held such supreme sway and was one of the
most remarkable revivals of a purer and
more devout faith. His denunciation of
avarice, usury and rampant worldliness were
as strenuous and impressive as his exhor-
tations to prayer and the study of the Bible
were touching and beautiful. Historians
say many efforts have been made to prove
by his subordination of rites and cere-
monies to spiritual truth and sincerity by
his elevated spiritual appreciations of the love
of Christ, of faith in him and of the supreme
authority of Scripture, that Savonarola was
an early Luther, an undeveloped reformer,
an unconscious Protestant. Certainly he was
a reformer and one who protested against
evil with a vigor and intensity such as few
men are capable of. He announced the
sword of the Lord which was to smite the
earth, to the rising of great prosecution,
among those who resisted his influence. In
the palace they first talked of banishing
him from Florence, and the courtiers said
we shall do to this Fra Giralamo as we did
to Fra Bernardino. When Lorenzo’s
courtiers talked of driving Savonarola from
Florence he took no part in it but kept his
eye upon the Dominican with interest in a
sense that indicated that he recognized in
him, “one of his own kingly kind, though
so unlike himself, a man worth knowing,
worth making a friend of.” In July 1491—
when the pressure against this man was
very great the Dominicans of San Marco
elected Savonarola their Prior, with a view
to protect him and it was the habit of every
newly elected Prior to pay his respects to
Lorenzo, to thank him for his protection
and recommend the convent to his good
graces. The elders prudent and politiceven
waited to see him do his duty in this par-
ticular and when they found he obstinately
refused they hastened to him in fear, and
demanded him to do so, “who elected me, he
asked, God or Lorenzo?" Lorenzo when he
heard of it was not angry, and no doubt
this great prince and able statesman, was
far more noble and considerate than the
sycophants with whom he was surrounded.
What he said was as though half-amused,
“A stranger has come to live in my house,
and does not think it worth his while to come
and see me.” It is evident that this very fact
stimulated the desire of Lorenzo to know
this one man, who never bowed before him.
From this time he began to haunt the
Church, would go to hear mass, then stray
into the garden, lingering there as a lover
for his mistress, then the Monks would
hasten to tell the Prior but he would only
ask, “Has he inquired for me?” The
troubled monks obliged to say “no!”
“Then let him take his walk in peace.”
	Lorenzo was not content, he sent presents
to the convent, he dropped gold pieces in
the box, a very unusual liberality, still
Savonarola resisted. When the box was
opened and the gold seudos seen, the Prior
laid them aside and sent them to San Marti-

[Column 3]
no to be distributed to the poor, to the
great disappointment of the monks. Lor-
enzo, finding all efforts unavailing to gain
an audience, sent five men of note and
weight, directing them to go as of their own
accord, to beg Savonarola to moderate his
sermons and to cease his denunciations of the
general corruption when they had stated
their errand,which they did with much con-
fusion and embarrassment, the Dominican
looked at them with his penetrating eyes,
and read their secret, he said, “Yon tell me
you come here of your own accord for the
good of the city and the love you bear this
convent, but I tell you it is not so. Lorenzo
de Medici has sent you here, therefore tell
him from me, that though he is a Floren-
tine, and the greatest in the city and I am a
stranger, yet it is he who must leave
Florence and I who must remain. He
shall go away, but I shall stay.”
	The shamed and discomfitted ambassadors
went back witn the message receiving it as
a prophecy. The Prior soon after told the
whole story in a sermon from his pulpit in
the presence of some of the envoys.
	Baffled inall his attempts Lorenzo deter-
mined to crush this rebellious friar, and
took such secret measures as became his
dignity and position. Savonarola afterwards
foretold to a Francisian friar the death of
Lorenzo within the year, he was then in the
full vigor of his life and powers.
	When the time came, he sent for
the Prior who had repulsed him, but
Savonarola sent back the mesenger saying,
“I am not the person he wants, we should
not agree,” but he sent again promising to
agree and Savonarola obeyed the summons,
on his way he told the messenger that
Lorenzo would die; when he reached the
chamber of the dying man, he said, “Father
there are three things which drag me back
and throw me into despair, and I know not
if God will ever pardon me for them.”
These were the sack of Valterra, the rob-
bery of the Monte della Franceulla and the
massacre of the Pazzi. The Prior reminded
him of the mercy of God and said he will
be merciful to you if you will have a great
and living faith that he can and will be 
merciful. Lorenzo had been victorious and
successful in everything but the battle was
lost at last, and the prophet at his side in-
timated the downfall of his family and of
Florence.
	After the death of Lorenzo, came the
French invasion to take Naples, Pietro the
son of Lorenzo held a tottering sway when
the French army crossed the Alps.
Savonarola was preaching in the Duomo
when the news of the army nearing the
city came, the excited populace rushed to
hear what the preacher would say about
this terrible event. He had prophesied of
Lorenzo’s death and he was dead, he had
predicted the coming of a new Cyrus from 
over the hills to punish the wicked and
purge Italy of her sins. Pietro in his fright
went out to meet his fate. He acted with
signal folly when the news of his base sur-
render reached Florence the whole city was
in an uproar the confusion of the masses
was like the gathering of a tempest, leader-
less, counselless as they were one impulse
swayed them to go to the preacher. There
was one man at least who could be trusted,
who would speak out boldly, thither the
crowd hastened.
	Stretching out his arms over the crowd
with the emotion of one who shared their-
pangs, he said, ‘‘repent for the kingdom of


[Column 1]
heaven is at hand, and pardon, O! Lord,
pardon these Florentines who desire to be
thine.” This  was  how  Savonarola took
the tide at its flood.  He might have made
himself leaderautocrat, director, but the only
revenge he bade them take, was chastise-
ment for their  sins, and  the remedy was
reformation not  for  the  state only but
individuals. While the officials still had a
remnant of power and could  yet do some-
thing to save the city, Savonarola held the
populace; next Savonarola went with the
ambassadors as one of them to meet Charles
and see what could be done to save the City,
before he went he delivered a great sermon
telling the people to be merciful and Warn-
ing them then he set out upon his mission,
but  nothing was promised. Charles was
anxious to see the man who had called him
the new Cyrus, he told the king  that years
before this visitation had been revealed to
him, and delivered to him a prophetic mes-
sage in  the name  of  the Lord.   The king
and his generals were moved  by  this re-
markable address of Savonarola and he re-
turned with better hopes, tho’ without
promises, his very presence was a strength
to the City; he restrained the people speak-
ing  to  them  of  peace  and  brotherhood.
Through all those troublesome times he
continued to preach and the people listened.
It seems never to have occured  to him that
this prophetical rule was despotic.  To him
it was the reign of God thro’ his  own un-
worthy lips, he employed this power for no
other end than the  good of the people,  his
enemies say he loved power, and made this
a  welcome  explanation  of  his incompre-
hensible character.  He ruled like the ideal
tyrant of a poetic imagination, his heart full
of  God and  the  people without leaving a
corner for himself and this lasted for two
years and is spoken  of as Savonarola as a
politician, a new style was apparent, a new
spirit animating the people, the impress of
the Democratic friar.  The carnival of 1496
found him silent in obedience to Rome, he
was silenced but his  active spirit  was un-
touched and his courage little broken.
    It does not seem  possible  that any  man
who risks all in the hope of regenerating his
country or his class be it ever so great a cause
should  come  to   any but  a  tragical end.
So long as Savonarola’s influence lasted im-
morality and luxury were out of the fashion,
vileness paralyzed. Savonarola in his own
person was the National guard, his words
was their wine, his eloquence their theatre,
but those things were not to continue, after
he had freed  Florence and tamed  her   he
dropped back into the Prior of San Marco,
and the religious leader, against  whom the
world had now once risen up in fierce fight.
He somehow incurred the Pope’s displeasure,
and one of his tremendous sermons was sent
to the Pope, he was Rodorigo Borgia,  fath-
er of Ceaser Borgia and  Lucretia,  and  the
conflict between these lasted for three years,
during  this  time Savonarola suffered   all
sorts of trials and indignities, in June 1497
the long threatened excommunication was
launched against him and formally publish-
ed  in  the  cathedral.   He  questioned  the
Pope’s legality and that he had no authority
over  the  consciences of the people.   He
kept silence, in his cell occupying himself
with writing until Christmas day 1698, six
months after when he addressed a vast mul-
titude of people, after the solemn mass he
went still further than to doubt the pope and
so enraged his enemies that every day raised
some new sedition against him, at  the  end
of one of his sermons he announced that on

[Column 2]
the first day of the carnival he would if any
of his adversaries  would dare  the  experi-
ment along with him, appear in some pub-
lic place holding the Sacrament in his hand
and appeal to God in solemn prayer to send
fire from heaven and demonstrate whether
himself or his antogonist was  in the right
way.   The scene was very affecting,   his
appeal to the people most touching, but no
one came to accept the challenge.   Twice
afterward similar instances took place and
with the same result—the opposition never
appearing.
     After this he had no peace he was con-
tinually threatened  with  punishment  and
when permitted, he passed his time in prayer
and in such  devotion as  would  touch  the
heart of stone. He was guilty of sedition
and heresy,  and  all  the  tortures  of  the
inquisition were brought to bear upon him
to make him submit and retract. Two  of
the devoted followers of this great man who
had accepted his  views  of faith  were sen-
tenced with him.
     The most  severe  tortures lasted eleven
days, thro’ all these memorial days, he was
alone in his place of torture, the other friars
were dealt with separately:—on the 23rd, of
May 1498, the execution  took place, much
of Savonarola’s experience at  this time  is
involved in doubt but it is a well known
fact that these heroic  men  were executed
by strangling, and their bodies were burned
like those of many other martyrs for daring
to have views and convictions not  in  con-
formity  with  popular creeds.   The   scene
was most affecting.   The  effect,  however,
was permanent and  cannot  be erased,  the
biographers account of this wonderful man,
Savonarola, his life and work are conflicting,
but one who feels the spirit of  the man and
comprehends  the mission   he    filled, will
know that he was a  man of  destiny, and if
one can be  permitted  the privilege  called
of God to help in the  reformation of those
licentious  times. He wrote many celebrated
works in Latin and Italian.


