A BIRTHDAY SURPRISE.

	AT 3-30, the second of March, at the
close of the Relief Society meeting of which
Sister Hannah Raymond is the President,
Soda Springs Idaho, the friends and
acquaintance of Sister Raymond who were
not at meeting, marched into the meeting-
house loaded down with good things etc:
and the surprise to Sister Raymond, who
was eighty years old, that day was complete
as she had not the slightest idea that her
friends had such a treat in store for her.
She seemed to think she was young once
more, and appreciated the honors shown
her by her many friends in a manner becom-
ing a thankful person many years younger.
	Sister Raymond has many friends as was
shown by those present as the company as-
sembled, was composed of both members
and non members of the Mormon Church;
she being a lady much respected by all who
knew her.
	Sister Raymond was one of the Pioneers
who crossed the plains from Missouri River
to Utah in early days in the first hand cart
company that ever undertook that hard trip,
and she has suffered all the hardships and
privations of a pioneer life, she has been the
mother of thirteen children, five of whom
are living. She was married at the age of
twenty and has lived a life that has made
friends of all who ever became acquainted
with her.
	A temporary table was soon prepared
after her many friends filled into the meet-
ing house and was quickly covered with the
many good things prepared by the sisters,
both old and young, as all took active part.
While the sumptuous dinner was being pre-
pared the Sunday School girls rendered
several songs and recitations, to their credit.
	There were over forty of the more elder-
ly people seated at the first table with Sister
Raymond at the head and after Bishop
Lau returned thanks upon the food and his
blessing upon Sister Raymond all without
an exception appeared to enjoy their dinner.
When the first table was through, nearly
as many young ladies, gentlemen and child-
ren were again seated and there were many
baskets left, and with the food left there
were a number of aged people who could
not attend made to know and remember the
occasion.
	After the meal was over Bishop Lau call-
ed the assembly to order and Elder H. S.
Woolley read the patriarchal blessing Sister
Hannah Raymond received under the hands
of John Young Patriarch on Dec. 10th,
1861. Among other blessings pronounced
upon the head of Sister Raymond was that
she should live as long as life was sweet'to
her.
	After the reading of the blessing a recess
was taken and later in the evening those
who desired assembled to enjoy themselves
in a dance and Sister Raymond opened the
dance in as gay a manner as a lady of forty
could do; and the prayer and benediction
of all was that Sister Raymond might see
many more birthday sand enjoy them as'she
had the one on her eightieth birthday.
							H. L.W.


