WORLD’S CONGRESS OF WOMEN
Under the Auspices of tlte Woman's
Bracnh of the Worlds Congress Aux-
liary, Chicago, May 15-22, 1893.

	One of the interesting subjects on the
Programme of this Congress will be “The
Solidarity of Human Interests," and it
will be treated of by an interesting woman,
Madame Isabel Bogelot, of France.
	At the International Council of Women
held in Washington in 1888, Madame Boge-
lot was the representative of  "The Work
for the Women Liberated from the Prison
of St. Lazare," a philanthropic organization
of which she is the Directress General in
Paris, and to which she gives her life work.
	All those who attended the session of the
international Council remember well the
charming face and naive expression of this
child-like woman of middle age, with gray
hair, fast whitening, dark bright eyes and
a fresh complexion, of middle stature, with
quick impulsive gestures,— thoroughly a
French woman and thoroughly lovable she
was to all who came to know her. She will
be an attraction at the sessions of the Wo-
man’s Congress. Madame Bogelot holds
the office of Treasurer of the permanent
International Council of Women which was
organized at Washington in 1888.
	The Committee of Arrangements having
this Congress in charge has already secured
some fine speakers for the sessions in the
two large auditoriums of the Art Palace.
	These Halls seat each about twenty-five
hundred people, an audience which may
reasonably hope to hear the various women
who will undertake to address them. In-
deed, this question of ability to be easily
heard in a hall of this size, has been a
factor in the decisions of the Sub-Committee
on Programme, and the speakers have been
selected with a view to their ability, not
only to say wise and witty things, but to
say them in tones easily audible to interested
audiences.
	Among the topics and speakers already
secured are the following:
The Civil and Social Evolution of Woman,
		by Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
Woman the New Factor in Economics,
		by Augusta Cooper Bristol.
Our Debt to Brussels,
		by Dr. Marie Popelin.
	Dr. Popelin is the Belgium Woman with
whose name many American women be-
came familiar a few years ago through read-
ing of her efforts to open the legal profes-
sion to her country-women. These efforts
were finally crowned with the success which
Dr. Popelin certainly deserved, and she is
at present a recognized legal practitioner in
Brussels.
	Brussels is known the world over as the
city of free speech. No matter how
stringent the laws in regard to men’s
actions, they are there free to express ideas
ranging all the way from ultra conservatism
through the entire gamut of “isms" to the
rankest anarchy. As a result of this pro-
tection of freedom of speech, Brussels has
been the hostess of a wonderful series of
Congresses and Conventions dealing with
every imaginable subject of modern thought.
It is with this phase of Brussels’ history
that Dr. Popelin’s address will deal.
	This great Congress will open the grand
series of World’s Congresses which will
continue until the end of the Exposition.
	The building in which all the Congresses
[column 2]
will convene is not upon the Exposition
grounds, as many persons seem to suppose.
If the Congresses were held there, all those
attending them would have to pay the regu-
lar admission to the Exposition.
	The Art Institute of Chicago is a new
building now approaching completion,
situated upon the Lake front, quite near
the Auditorium Hotel. It will be entirely
given up to the Congress Auxiliary for the
six months of the Exposition. It contains
two auditoriums, each seating twenty-five
hundred people, and about twenty small-
er halls, ranging in seating capacity from
three hundred to eight hundred. Some of
these will be occupied as the offices of the
World’s Congress Auxiliary, but at least
fifteen will be left for the use of the Con-
gresses. This gives opportunity, in those
Congresses which hold three sessions daily,
for thirty-six sessions weekly in large
auditoriums, and two hundred and seventy
sessions weekly in the Department Halls.
	During the week of the Congress of
Representative Women,  the entire building,
exclusive of the offices occupied by the
Congress Auxiliary, will be at the service
of the Woman’s Congress. We believe
this is not the case with any other single
Congress, and the reason is obvious. The
General Congresses will show, each in its
own Department, the intellectual advances
made in all the realms of thought and ef-
fort by men and women, without special
regard paid to the question of which sex
performed the work, and they will have
five months in which to show this. The
Woman’s Congress, on the other hand, will
endeavor in one week to set forth briefly,
but at the same time broadly and compre-
hensively, the relation of woman to the
world’s work. The addresses will be on
topics calculated to show the relation of
woman to the subject in hand. The Reports
all over the world (these Reports are not to be
presented orally at the Congress but to be
published afterward) will endeavor to give
a resume of the relation of woman to Edu-
cation, Industry, Literature and Art, Phil-
anthropy and Charity, Moral and Social
Reform, Civil Law and Government,
Science and Philosophy, and to Religion in
every country where woman is recognized
as a factor in the national life.
	The management of the Woman’s Con-
gress is in the hands of the Committee of
Arrangements of the Woman’s Branch of
the World’s Congress Auxiliary of which
Mrs. Potter Palmer is President and Mrs.
Chas. Henrotin, Vice-President. It has
been decided to hold but two sessions daily
in the main auditorium and in the Depart-
ment Congresses, in order to leave the
afternoons free for social intercourse, and a
sub-committee has charge of arranging a
series of informal receptions to take place
during the Congress.
	Over forty organizations in this country
and more than that number from other
countries are co-operating in the Woman’s
Congress, by sending representatives to pre-
sent their work during its sessions. In or-
der to give greater opportunity for the pre-
sentation of the organized work of women,
all national associations of women in the
United States have received the invitation
to use for one day a Department Hall in the
Art Institute.
	These Department Congresses will be
managed entirely by the officers of the
organizations holding them. Already
twenty organizations have decided to ar-
[column 3]
range for Department Congresses and are
at work upon their Programmes, striving
to make them as strong as possible and
each desiring to be considered an addition
to the other attractions of the Congress.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY Secretary.


