ALTERATIONS OF THE OCTOROON.

For the Exponent.
	Believing that scenes of murder and
suicide upon the stage, should be avoided
even though the end is not tragical, it
would produce a better impression, leave, a
better and more cheerful feeling in the
minds of the beholders, and inculcate les-
sons of good, the liberty is taken to so alter
the original text.  Jacob, in a prison hav-
ing been caught by the Indian and delivered
up.
	Jacob soliliquizing, “A murderer’s doom is
mine. My love of greed, my mad love for
Zoe brings me here.  I have lost all, all
that man should care for, all that makes life
bright.  My hands are dyed red with blood.
My heart is cold, remorse my fate,  demons
my companions.  No hope no joy, all is the
darkness of despair.  Oh innocent ones,
keep innocent.  Never let those foul in-
fluences drag you down to utter perdition,
where there is no hope, where redemption
cannot come, where laugheth evil ones at
your dismay. This is my fate, that I alone
have brought upon myself.”
Then when Zoe is about to take poison
let her speak like this: “Here is the cup of
Lethe.  Here is the cup that bringeth peace 
of this life’s ills, that bringeth deadly sleep
that maketh me free from that detestable
man’s power, no longer his slave.  Shall I
drink it and sleep the last long sleep?
Shall I drink it, and lay my body down in
the cold and silent grave, shall I still these
warm heart beats, and go to the unseen
land of spirits? I am tempted—tempted, to
put my love, my life away.
	Shall I succumb to cowardly temptation,
or resist the syren’s plea?
There is another life than this, my deeds
will overtake me and what then will I be
there?”
	Dashes the cup down. “Go cup of Lethe,
go; I will not bring everlasting remorse
upon my spirit, I will not take my life, the
life that was given me for good.  I will not
stain my hands by so dark a deed, and bring
a murderer’s fate to me, so dark, so drear,
would be the penalty I would pay.  No
happiness, no joy, no love, no companions 
but those in like distress, no ray of light to
cheer my future way.
	Better be a slave than commit this wicked


act, and I will trust that vengeance over-
take that robber of my peace of heart, that
has brought upon us all this woe, that light
may break upon my eyes that I can see my
pathway clearly."
	Then when the news comes that Jacob is
in prison and the estate redeemed, Zoe
says,
	"George I love you too well to wish you
to link your fate with mine.  Be reconciled
with reason, that Dora for your wife, and
forget me in your love for her. If I do 
right upn this earth then shall I reap a re-
ward in the future. My life shall be de-
voted to others good alone."	
