SPRINGVILLE W. S. A.

	A MONTHLY meeting of the W. S. A.
convened March 10th, called to order by
the President, S. A. Boyer. After the
usual preliminaries, Don C. Johnson was
the first speaker on the programme, “In the


life and character of Napoleon;” among
many good things he said was this, “Tell
me what kind of a character a man is and I
will tell you what kind of a mother he had
and proved that the greatest men have
risen from the humblest ranks of society.”
	The next speaker was our School Super-
ntendent Morgan “On the life of Henry
Clay.” He said that in looking over the
history of men, he divided them into three
classes, great in morals, great in thought,
and great in action, considered Napolepon
great in action but not a conscientious and
moral man, as compared with Henry Clay
said many things worthy of note. Profes-
sor Lynes spoke, by invitation,of the presi-
dent. In his remarks he said he considered
it a greater privilege to be able to vote for a
president than to be one. Considered his
wife as competent to fill that position as
himself and in many respects better. He
brought up many instances in regard to vot-
ing that are an outrage, compared the ig-
norant foreigner with many of our educated
sons before they are twenty one, and our-
educated women who are not allowed to
vote, nor have a voice in who shall teach
their children, considered it un-American,
urged women to educate themselves for the
time when they can have the franchise
said that the women of Utah should not
allow the constitutional convention to con-
vene when Utah is admitted without having
presented a petition to that body. The
president said she was delighted with the
information imparted to us, and it was sug-
gestive of what can be accomplished by
cultivating the intellectual faculties and
making them subservient to our wishes in
whatever direction we wish to drift, hoped
that when a state convention convened, the
women of Utah would be posted on these
matters sufficiently that they will be will-
ing to engraft this clause in their constitu-
tion and thereby avoid the agitation its com-
mision would entail. Yours in the cause of
truth.
