[Vol22 | November 1935 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Guide | Title: Teachers' Topic (For April 1936)]

Teachers' Topic
(For April 1936)
PROVERBS 3:5, 6
"Trust in the Lord with all thine heart,
And lean not unto thine own understanding;
In all thy ways acknowledge him,
And he shall direct thy paths."

PROBABLY there was never a time when individuals have felt that their own understanding had led them so far astray in the solving of economic and religious problems as at present. Certainly in the home the parents feel that more than ever they need guidance and the help of the Lord in the rearing of their children to help them to withstand the numerous temptations confronting them. In this proverb a very definite blessing is given to those who put their trust in Him—a blessing that fills a very paramount need in the lives of all of us.

It is pleasing in the eyes of the Lord for us to put our trust in Him. He is ever mindful of us and by trusting in Him we open the door for the Comforter, the spirit of Truth, to come to bring things to our remembrance and show us things to come. To pray earnestly and constantly is to show to the Lord that we have faith in his guidance and to acknowledge our willingness to be led.

To trust in the Lord when changes beset our lives and disappointments fall is not the easiest thing to do but it is the surest way to obtain peace of mind. Had we the larger vision to understand the why of conditions then such great faith would not be required of us in our trusting.

"Perhaps no man in the church ever felt more profoundly the truth of the words, 'God moves in a mysterious way, His wonders to perform,' than Wilford Woodruff." To Latter-day Saints his life stands as a vital example of what we mean by trusting in the Lord with all one's heart and letting God direct one's paths. His was not a blind trust but he constantly sought the Lord in earnest prayer and through dreams and visions he received wisdom and intuition to guide him.

Many miraculous instances of where the Lord guided and directed Wilford Woodruff are given in his journal. In one section he "records a miraculous escape by one of those spiritual impressions that frequently came across his life. He had tied his mules to an oak-wood tree beside which he was camping. His children were sleeping in the wagon, and he felt impressed to move from his camping ground, so he moved his children into a house. Only a short time elapsed when a thunder-storm swept over the place in great fury. Of the circumstance he writes: 'We had just retired when the storm reached us in great fury, and in a moment the large oak came thundering down to the ground with a terrific crash. Had I not moved my mules, it would probably have killed them. Had I not moved my carriage, it would have been crushed to atoms, and we would have been killed, as the tree fell where my carriage stood....

I consider my impression as interposition of Providence to save our lives.'" ("Wilford Woodruff," by M. F. Cowley)

1. Tell how you have, had your way made plain by prayer and by manifesting a trust in the Lord to help you.
2. In what way does this particular proverb promise help in the complicated life situations of the present day?
3. Discuss the relationship between faith and trust. Could you give complete trust without faith?