[Vol22 | November 1935 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Literature | Title: Literature (For Third Week in April) - Adventures in Reading]

Literature
(For Third Week in April)
ADVENTURES IN READING
COMPANIONABLE BOOKS
"The pleasant books that silently among
Our household treasures take familiar places."
—Longfellow.

COMPANIONABLE BOOKS like friends are those that we keep near to us and call upon often for our comfort and delight. Fortunate is the man with such friends for his every mood, grave or gay, for his every need, pleasure or profit. From our company of book friends we call a companion for the quiet hour by the fireside, or the lonely hour near a night lamp.

Great men have recorded their most precious thoughts in books. All of life with its tragedy and comedy is faithfully revealed by the silent magic of language. The reader has but to beckon, "Come, my best friends, my books, and lead me on," and a good company is at his service.

"Books are the true levellers. They give to all who faithfully use them, the society, the spiritual presence, of the best and greatest of our race."—Channing.

Two Companionable Books

The lives of two great humanists of the eighteenth century are recorded in two companionable books, "The Life of Samuel Johnson," by James Boswell and "The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin."

When modern society was evolving at a rapid rate through exploration and conquest, education and science, these men lived, one on each hemisphere, yet both speaking one language—English. Samuel Johnson, a great scholar, who wrote a dictionary, many essays and biographies, and several classical poems, was also a wise man who laid down the law on letters and in morals to eighteenth century England. Benjamin Franklin, one of the wisest and most illustrious of eighteenth century Americans was interested in literary clubs, magazines, circulating libraries, academics, reformed spelling, almanacs, proverbs, electricity, lightning-rods, stoves, the harmonica, the Latin, Italian, Spanish, and French languages, the Declaration of Independence, and the Constitution of the United States. Both men lived parallel lives, the dates of birth and death differing by but a few years, each in his own country. Each life as is recorded has become a "best-seller" for well over a century, evidence enough that these works are well-loved, and for that reason they are companionable books.

Samuel Johnson, A Sturdy Believer

James Boswell made himself famous when he gave to the world the "Rich intellectual treasure," the Life of Samuel Johnson, a book to become the choice companion of many a book lover.

Samuel Johnson's life is a fascinating romance. His early life was a series of struggles. Born in 1709 in the country town of Lichfield, this brilliant son of a poor bookseller found a rich environment. The boy struggled through Oxford without income and a proud spirit that made him throw away a pair of shoes given to him for charity. Several attempts at teaching proved unsuccessful. Then Johnson tried his hand at many types of writing. Many a night he walked the streets of London not having the money to pay for a bed. Then he conceived the idea of a dictionary of the English language. This stupendous undertaking brought fame to Samuel Johnson, and a pension from the English government that made him independent. He became the founder of the famous literary club and reigned as monarch over the members which included Boswell, Goldsmith, Gibbons, Benke, and Sir Joshua Reynolds.

Johnson wrote numerous poems, among which the best is "The Vanity of Human Wishes." "Rasselas," an allegorical romance, was written in one week in order to pay the expenses of his mother's funeral. The work, "Lives of the English Poets," is still of great literary value. Johnson's power lay in his personality, his immense intellectual power, and his high moral sense. His shrewd gift of observation made him the most decisive man of his time and country. Gathered from his brilliant conversation, his friend, James Boswell, recorded the wisdom which keeps Johnson today a living figure.

Hour after hour Johnson's friends would listen enthralled by the utterances of the strange, uncouth man in slovenly dress. He was a big honest soul with a reverence for mankind. The kindness and generosity of Johnson was known to many who suffered as he had suffered. It was his custom to keep a book of "Prayers and Meditations" by his bed. These were printed after his death, and they reveal more than anything else could do the inner life that gave life to his wisdom.

James Boswell, a little hero-worshiping Scotchman, spent much of his time in the company of Samuel Johnson. From his notes about the activities of his friend and his conversation, Boswell created one of the greatest biographies in the English language. "Read diligently in the great book of mankind" was the secret Johnson gave to his biographer. Johnson was always doing it. This is the reason Boswell was able to make a great book, mankind is in it as Johnson revealed it.

Quotations from Samuel Johnson recorded by James Boswell in his biography:
"Slow rises worth, by poverty depressed."
"A man should keep his friendship in constant repair."
"Perfect good breeding consists in having no particular mark of any profession, but a general elegance of manners."
"It matters not how a man dies, but how he lives."
"The decent provision for the poor is the true test of civilization."
"Life is a progress from want to want, not from enjoyment to enjoyment."
"Getting money is not all a man's business; to cultivate kindness is a valuable part of the business of life."
"Be not angry that you cannot make others as you wish them to be, since you cannot make yourself as you wish to be."
"A man cannot with propriety speak of himself except he relates simple facts."
"Never lie in your prayers; never confess more than you really believe; never promise more than you mean to perform."
"Knowledge of two kinds. We know a subject ourselves, or we know where we can find information upon it."
"He left the name at which the world grew pale, To paint a moral or adorn a tale."

Benjamin Franklin's Autobiography

Benjamin Franklin, the man "whose majestic virtues made him idolized in France, feared in England, and obeyed in America," at the age of sixty-five, in 1771, sat down in the Bishop of St. Asaph's house at Turyford in England, where he was an honored guest, to write for his son the story of his life. He was eighty-three years old when he finished the last pages in Philadelphia. The man was greater than the book. In a few hundred pages the wisest man of his country related the details of his life in simple style. There is no affectation, no vanity in the record; it is shrewd, direct, and vivid. A nation's builder told his own story simply and honestly.—"A wit and philosopher, rich in learning, charming in manners, ripe in the wisdom of the world, resourceful in dealing with men and events, he was one of the most delightful as he was one of the greatest men produced by the English race in the eighteenth century."

Benjamin Franklin was born in Boston in 1706, the youngest son and the fifteenth of seventeen children. An industrious boy, he entered an apprenticeship in his brother's printing shop, and before he was seventeen years old he wrote essays after the fashion of Addison. The variety and number of the activities of his life are best summarized. 1. In 1727 he established the "Pennsylvania Gazette" which later became the "Saturday Evening Post." 2. In 1729 he founded the first circulating library in America. 3. In 1749 he founded the Academy which later became the University of Pennsylvania. 4. As an inventor he perfected the stove and devised methods of street-lighting. 5. As a scientist he identified lightning and electricity. 6. In 1754 was Colonial agent to London. 7. He was a framer of the Declaration of Independence. 8. He was a member of the French Court. 9. He was a framer of the Constitution of the United States.

Out of the great mass of Franklin's writings, two are remembered today: "Poor Richard's Almanac" and the "Autobiography." Franklin made a religion of action, putting it into a simple creed naming virtues and precepts:

These names of virtues and their precepts were:
1. Temperance—Eat not to dullness; drink not to elevation.
2. Silence—Speak not but what may benefit others or yourself; avoid trifling conversation.
3. Order—Let all your things have their places; let each part of your business have its time.
4. Resolution—Resolve to perform what you ought; perform without fail what you resolve.
5. Frugality—Make no expense but to do good to others or yourself; i. e., waste nothing.
6. Industry—Lose no time; be always employed in something useful; cut off all unnecessary actions.
7. Sincerity—Use no hurtful deceit; think innocently and justly; and, if you speak, speak accordingly.
8. Justice—Wrong none by doing injuries, or omitting the benefits that are your duty.
9. Moderation—Avoid extremes; forbear resenting injuries so much as you think they deserve.
10. Cleanliness—Tolerate no uncleanliness in body, clothes, or habitation.
11. Tranquility—Be not disturbed at trifles, or at accidents common or unavoidable.
12. Chastity.
13. Humility—Imitate Jesus and Socrates.

The "Autobiography" brings the story of Franklin only up to 1757. There is no record of Revolutionary struggles. Later Franklin was the first American to represent his country among the nations of Europe. Today, Benjamin Franklin, to his own people, is one of the best known and best loved personalities in American history. Termed the greatest influence of his age, he was a living example of Aesop's fable of the sun and the north wind.

A New Age, A New Philosopher

In the golden age of Greek culture, Socrates and his illustrious pupils discussed "Man as the measure of all things" and accepted the truth that "knowledge is virtue." Out of the serenity of life in the shadow of the temple of Dionysus it was a satisfying philosophy. The hurry and hustle of modern life calls for new values and a new expression. Today is a day of work, energy, and action.

Elbert Hubbard, American philosopher, was a business-man and a philosopher. His law of life was action. From the thoughts of Moses, Socrates, Pythagorus, Jesus, and Buddha he brought a wisdom that applies to the art of living today. "A message to Garcia" contains such a message for everyday living. It happened during the war with Spain. Garcia was in the mountain fastnesses of Cuba and it was necessary to reach him immediately. Someone said, "There is a fellow named Rowan will find Garcia if anybody can." The letter from the president to Garcia was given to Rowan. He asked no questions, but he carried the message. "Civilization is one long, anxious search for just such individuals. Anything such a man asks shall be granted; his kind is so rare that no employer can afford to let him go. He is wanted in every office, ship, store, and factory. The world cries out for such; he is needed and needed badly—the man who can carry a message to Garcia."

The wisdom of Elbert Hubbard with that of Franklin, Jefferson, Lincoln, and Whitman is an expression of the American ideal of self-reliance as the guide to health, wealth, and happiness. His creed: "To love one's friends, to bathe in life's sunshine, to preserve a right mental attitude—the perceptive attitude, the attitude of gratitude—and to do one's work—these make up an ideal life."