[Vol48 | February 1961 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting | Author: Robinson]
PROBABLY no other scripture has a more direct application to Relief Society work and to the work of visiting teachers than does this quotation from The Doctrine and Covenants. 'The grand key words of Relief Society are, "Said Jesus, "Ye shall do the work which ye see me do.'" What was the work Jesus did? The scriptures testify that from the beginning to the end of his ministry he " went about doing good " (Acts 10:38). 'The gospel teaches its members to visit the sick, to comfort those who mourn, to encourage the downcast, and to help the poor. The doctrine of service to others, as contained in this Doctrine and Covenants' quotation, was formerly given by the Savior when he taught his disciples on the Mount of Olives. There he described the events of the last days and said that when the Son of man would come in his glory, he would judge his people. To the righteous he would say: For I was an hungred, and ye gave me meat: J was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in I was sick, and ye visited me (Mt. 25°35-36). Then the righteous would be puzzled and would wonder when they had done all these things for the Lord. And the Lord would answer them saying: Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me (Mt. 25:40; see Mt. 25:35-40). In addition to being fundamental to Relief Society work, this doctrine of service to our fellow men has permeated deeply into all religious and literary thought. Benjamin Franklin once said, "The most acceptable service to God is doing good to man." 'The great Book of Mormon king and prophet Benjamin expressed the thought beautifully when he said, "... When ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God" (Mosiah 2:17). In the well-known story of "The Vision of Sir Launfal" are these impressive words: He gives only the worthless gold Who gives from a sense of duty; But he who gives but a slender mite, And gives to that which is out of sight. The hand cannot clasp the whole of his alms, The heart outstretches its eager palms. Not what we give, but what we share, For the gift without the giver is bare; Who gives himself with his alms feeds three — Himself, his hungering neighbor, and me. (James Russell Lowell) Page 125 126 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1961 Although our Father in heaven is all-powerful and can do all things, vet he follows the divine plan whereby his good works must be done through us, his children. It is fine to pray for the welfare of the sick and afflicted, but they are empty words unless they are accompanied by personal actions which help and comfort those in need. We can wish our neighbors well, but this is " as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal" (I Cor. 13:1), unless we do something which improves their welfare. The Lord's divine plan requires that we go about doing good. If kindness is to prevail upon the earth, it cannot come about solely by wishing and praying for it. It will come only if we practice kindness and do good even "... Unto one of the least of these my brethren." A wise Book of Mormon prophet emphasized this fact when he said:... I would that ye should impart of your substance to the poor, every man according to that which he hath, such as feeding the hungry, clothing the naked, visiting the sick and administering to their relief, both spiritually and temporally, according to their wants (Mosiah 4:26). This is the substance of pure religion. This is what the Lord meant when he said: "For inasmuch as ye do it unto the least of these, ye do it unto me" (D & C 42:38).