[Vol48 | February 1961 | Sequence: 17 | Category: General Feature | Title: FEATURES | Author: Wangsgaar]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME Beauty in the Shade Eva Willes Wangsgaard]
LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
131 
A  Perry  Picture 
NATHANIEL  HAWTHORNE 
Hawthorne,  Pioneer  Artist 
Sharing  honors  with  Edgar  Allen 
Poe,  Hawthorne  is  the  acknowl- 
edged father  of  great  American 
fictional  art.  Preparing  himself 
from  vouth  for  a  writmg  career, 
Hawthorne  early  respected  the  great 
power  of  words  skillfully  combined. 
He  mastered  his  craft  by  perfecting 
a  style  which  spoke  to  his  readers 
precisely  what  he  wanted  it  to  speak. 
Paralleling  in  the  short  story  Emer- 
son's accomplishment  in  poetry,  he 
learned  the  secret  of  permitting 
each  composition  to  grow  from  with- 
in its  own  nature,  finally  to  achieve 
expression  through  form  perfectly 
fitted  to  its  content  or  theme-idea. 
Most  important,  he  probed  into  the 
human  soul  to  a  depth  rarely  be- 
fore attained,  finding  within  his  own 
dark,  unacknowledged,  unexplored 
caverns  some  definitions  of  reality  as 
startlingly  new  to  his  own  time  as 
today  they  are  basic  to  the  modern 
awareness  of  man's  complex  iden- 
tity. 
He  realized  early  that  his  clois- 
tered \\orld,  removed  from  the 
ordinary  life,  the  subject-areas  out  of 
which  he  must  create  literature,  was 
extremely  limited.  He  pro\ed  his 
genius  by  capitalizing  on  those  very 
limitations.  He  wrote,  not  of  what 
man  sees  and  does  outwardh',  but 
rather  of  what  man  knows  or  of 
which  he  is  vaguely  aware  within 
himself,  but  of  which  he  never 
speaks  or  cannot  speak.  In  his 
greatest  writings  Hawthorne  is  ever 
concerned  with  the  nexer-ending 
conflict  between  good  and  evil, 
fighting  on  the  battlefield  which  is 
the  human  heart.  This  subject  and 
his  approach  to  it  are  in  violent  con- 
trast to  the  domestic  sentimentality 
and  ad\enture  tales  which  dominat- 
ed contemporary  fiction. 
Yet  e\en  while  writing  these 
somber  tales  which  his  natural  gen- 
ius dictated,  Hawthorne  longed  to 
achieve  popularity  by  writing  sun- 
nv,  happy,  everyday  sketches  \\'hich 
he  publiclv  scorned.  Thus  we  are 
forced  to  recognize  the  huge  gap 
which  separated  Hawthorne,  the 
artist,  from  Hawthorne,  the  man, 
throughout  his  life. 
Hawthorne's  Outward  Liie 
Nathaniel  was  born  July  4,  1804, 
in  Salem,  Massachusetts,  home  port 
of  the  fast  American  ships  which 
traded  with  exotic  people  round  the 
world.  His  staunch  Puritan  ances- 
tors arrived  in  Massachusetts  Bay  in 
1630.  Thev  were  permitted  to  write 
''Mr."  before  their  name  \\hen  this 
term  reallv  meant  something.  Some 
were  captains,  some  local  justices, 
one  ancestor  sat  with  Samuel  Sewall 
and  one  other  to  condemn  nineteen 
to   their  deaths   during  the   Salem

132 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY  1961 
witchcraft  trials  of  1692-93.  His  own 
father,  Captain  Nathaniel  Haw- 
thorne, described  as  "the  sternest 
man  that  ever  trod  a  deck/'  died  at 
Surinam,  Dutch  Guiana,  when  Na- 
thaniel was  four.  Impoverished  and 
proud,  Mrs.  Hawthorne  returned 
\\ith  her  three  children  to  her  own 
people,  the  Mannings,  who  gave  her 
sustenance  and  sent  her  one  son  to 
Bowdoin  College  in  Maine.  The 
Manning  home  in  Salem  was  cheer- 
less and  strictly  plain.  The  widow 
and  her  children  ate  in  their  room 
to  economize,  and  later,  when  the 
children  had  separate  rooms,  the 
mother  lived  and  ate  in  hers,  send- 
ing out  written  notes  to  members 
of  the  family  when  she  wished  to 
meet  with  them.  A  most  handsome 
child  with  long,  dark  eyelashes,  it  is 
understandable  that  voung  Nathan- 
iel, the  only  nephew  living  in  a 
household  of  four  unmarried  aunts 
and  four  unmarried  uncles,  was 
pampered.  He  went  often  to  Maine, 
where  his  uncles  owned  property, 
roaming  freely  in  the  summer 
woods,  however,  an  injury  to  his 
foot,  when  he  was  nine,  confined 
him  to  the  house  for  almost  three 
years. 
At  Bowdoin  College  discipline 
was  so  strict  that  Hawthorne  was 
fined  for  walking  unnecessarily  on 
the  Sabbath;  a  friend  was  fined  for 
sitting  in  an  improper  posture  dur- 
ing chapel.  As  a  student,  Haw- 
thorne excelled  in  composition  and 
in  his  own  leisure  reading.  He  made 
three  lifelong  friends  at  college, 
Longfellow,  Horatio  Bridge,  and 
Franklin  Pierce,  for  whom  Haw- 
thorne later  wrote  a  campaign  bi- 
ography in  support  of  his  successful 
race  for  the  Presidency  of  the  Unit- 
ed States. 
Hawthorne  returned  to  Salem  for 
twelve  years  following  his  gradua- 
tion, again  submitting  himself  to 
the  family  pattern  of  seclusion  and 
withdrawal.  At  the  same  time  he 
read  almost  every  book  in  the  local 
library  and  worked  diligently  at  per- 
fecting his  own  writing  skills.  His 
only  small  success,  publication  of 
Twice-Told  Tales,  seemed  insuffi- 
cient to  justify  marriage,  so  he  and 
Sophia  Peabody  were  engaged  for 
four  years  before  their  marriage  in 
1842,  when  she  was  thirty-four  and 
Hawthorne  was  thirty-eight.  Because 
she  was  an  invalid  and  had  been 
''prepared''  by  her  mother  not  to 
expect  the  joys  of  motherhood, 
Sophia  worshipped  her  handsome 
husband  and  her  role  as  wife  and 
mother  of  their  three  children.  Dur- 
ing their  prolonged  courtship  they 
exchanged  over  a  hundred  ardent 
love  letters.  So  completely  did  each 
find  fulfillment  in  the  other  that 
their  love  approaches  the  stature  of 
that  attained  by  Elizabeth  Barrett 
and  Robert  Browning.  A  thoroughly 
educated,  beautiful  and  sensitive 
woman  with  genuine  skill  in  paint- 
ing, Sophia  concealed  little  of  her 
romantic  intensity  in  her  letters,  be- 
fore and  after  marriage.  After  one 
of  their  first  meetings  she  wrote  to 
her  sister  of  Hawthorne: 
You  know  in  "Annie's  Ramble"  he  says 
that  if  there  is  anything  he  prides  him- 
self upon,  it  is  on  having  a  smile  that 
children  love.  I  should  think  they  would, 
indeed.  He  has  a  celestial  expression.  It 
is  a  manifestation  of  the  divine  in  human. 
Soon  after  marriage  she  wrote  her 
mother,  who  watched  with  wonder 
the  emergence  of  an  entirely  new 
Sophia: 
Do  not  fear  that  I  shall  be  too  subject 
to  my  Adam,  my  crown  of  Perfection.  .  .  .

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
133 
He  is  completely  under  the  dominion  of 
his  intellect  and  sentiments.  Oh,  who 
ever  saw  such  a  union  of  power  and  gentle- 
ness, softness  and  spirit,  passion  and  divine 
reason!  The  heavenly  host  may  come  and 
pitch  their  tents  round  about  us  as  in 
the  first  Eden  and  easily  mistake  my  hus- 
band for  one  of  their  hierarchy.  I  think 
it  must  be  partly  smiles  of  angels  that 
makes  the  air  so  pleasant  here.  I  think 
seraphs  love  as  he  lo\es  me — ardent,  rapt, 
tender,  devout  and  holy. 
Nine  years  later,  during  Haw- 
thorne's absence,  each  kept  a  daily 
journal  for  the  other.  Sophia  wrote 
her  mother  that  she  could  not  eat, 
''sitting  opposite  his  empty  chair  at 
table,  and  I  lost  several  pounds  of 
flesh."  Nothing  changed,  for  at  his 
death  in  1864,  after  twenty-eight 
years  of  marriage,  she  wrote: 
To  me  —  even  to  me  who  was  himself 
in  unity  —  he  was  to  the  last  the  holy 
of  holies  behind  the  cherubim.  ...  A 
person  of  more  uniform  majesty  never 
wore  mortal  form.  In  the  most  retired 
privacy  it  was  the  same  as  in  the  presence 
of  men.  The  sacred  veil  of  his  eyelids 
he  scarcely  lifted  to  himself  —  such  an 
unviolated  sanctuary  was  his  nature  — 
I,  his  inmost  wife,  never  conceived  nor 
knew.  .  .  . 
Hawthorne  reciprocated  without 
reservation  for  during  their  engage- 
ment he  wrote  her: 
We  are  but  shadows,  we  are  not  en- 
dowed with  real  life,  and  all  that  seems 
most  real  about  us  is  but  the  thinnest 
substance  of  a  dream  —  till  the  heart  be 
touched.  That  touch  creates  us  —  then 
we  begin  to  be  —  therebv  we  are  beings 
of  reality  and  inheritors  of  eternity.  .  .  . 
Thou  keepest  my  heart  pure,  and  elevatest 
me  abo\e  the  world.  Thou  enablest  me 
to  interpret  the  riddle  of  life,  and  fillest 
me  with  a  faith  in  the  unseen  and  better 
land,  because  thou  leadest  me  thither  con- 
tinually. .  .  .  God  ga\e  you  to  me  to  be 
the  salvation  of  my  soul.