[Vol48 | February 1961 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Fiction | Title: Sixty]
[Sixty Years Ago]
(bixty    LJears  ^yigo 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  February  i,  and  February  15,  igoi 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the  Women 
OF  All  Nations" 
HOME  AND  IDEALS:  Whether  built  of  logs  or  marble,  be  the  surroundings 
picturesque  or  desolate,  a  spot  marked  by  squalor  or  opulence,  the  four  walls  of  home 
close  in  and  nurse  the  best  there  is  in  man.  ,  .  .  The  birds  on  the  garden  shrubs  unfold 
their  secrets  to  the  growing  child,  from  birds,  blossoms,  fruit  seed,  over  and  again  he 
learns  his  first  lessons  of  his  relation  to  God  and  nature.  If  art  reigns  in  the  home 
there  will  grow  out  of  it  beautiful  parks,  streets,  thoroughfares  and  cities.  ...  A  life 
consumed  by  following  society's  unprofitable  and  foolish  fashions  has  a  parallel  in  that 
of  a  woman  who  never  takes  a  moment  for  study  and  self-impro\ement  but  makes  her- 
self a  very  slave  to  her  home.  The  home  must  be  kept  sweet  and  clean  but  the  brain 
is  as  prone  to  get  cobwebby  as  the  best  room. 
— Alice  Merrill  Home 
OUR  PRINCIPAL  MISSION:  We  are  told  that  our  principal  mission  on  this 
earth  is  to  save  souls.  Not  alone  to  be  saved,  but  to  save  others.  Saviors  upon  Mount 
Zion!  It  is  a  term  of  solemn  import.  No  trifling,  no  carelessness  of  purpose  nor  act 
should  be  found  in  the  mature  Latter-day  Saint.  Souls  to  save!  Either  by  love  and 
service  to  the  living,  or  by  service  and  love  for  the  dead!     Is  not  that  our  mission? 
— Susa  Young  Gates 
A  FRIENDLY  LETTER  FROM  GLENEYRE,  COLORADO:  I  came  up  to 
visit  a  friend  who  lives  eighty  miles  from  the  railroad,  we  were  cut  off  from  all 
sociability,  only  within  ourselves.  The  wild  natural  beauty  and  the  spicy  breath  of 
pine  woods  and  mountains.  .  .  .  Friendship  induced  me  to  come  to  this  romantic 
spot.  ...  I  would  I  had  the  gifts  to  describe  the  beautiful  sunsets,  the  elevation  is  S.^oo 
feet.  .  .  .  The  house  is  picturesque,  large  and  roomy,  built  of  logs.  Situated  aloft  on 
the  very  summit  of  a  mountain  range,  yet  nestling  in  the  shelter  of  pine-coxered 
heights,  sweeping  into  circles  around  it.  .  .  .  The  little  pine  gulches  put  me  in  mind  of 
"The  Deserted  Trail": 
"And  half  way  up  there  stands  all  slim  and  white, 
A  grove  of  quaking  asps, 
And  often  there  when  morn  the  mountain  clasps, 
I've  stood  in  mute  delight. 
Between  each  sihery  stem  you  catch  a  glance 
Of  ranges  far  and  blue. 
And  one  great  peak  that  leaps  so  straight  and  true, 
A  mighty  ice-tipped  lance.  ..." 
— Luella  M.  Rhodes 
NOTTINGHAM,  ENGLAND,  RELIEF  SOCIETY  PARTY:  The  members  of 
the  Nottingham  Relief  Society  held  their  annual  party  on  Boxing  Day,  December  26, 
igoo.  A  hearty  invitation  was  extended  to  all.  A  committee  of  young  ladies  was 
appointed  to  decorate  the  room  with  Christmas  decorations,  the  tables  being  also  taste- 
fully arranged  and  decorated  with  flowers  and  ferns.  .  .  .  About  sixty  persons  sat  down 
and  took  a  hearty  meal  ...  a  short  program  was  rendered,  consisting  of  an  opening 
address  .  .  .  songs,  duets,  etc.  .  .  .  The  rest  of  the  evening  was  devoted  to  games  and 
various  amusements  were  indulged  in  to  make  the  evening  a  success.  .  .  .  Refreshments 
were  also  on  hand  for  those  who  required  them,  the  proceeds  of  which  were  to  be 
given  to  .  .  .  the  poor. 
— Edith  Cable,  Sec. 
Page  92