[Vol48 | February 1961 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Poem | Title: Homecoming| Author: Leslie Savage Clark]
TEMPLE  SQUARE  IN  SALT  LAKE  CITY  91 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  For  indeed  the    Lord    no    doubt    felt    himself 
Israel  was  so  situated  in  the  summer  bound  to  work  out  the  deliverance 
of    1848,    that    if    God    had    not  which  that  combination  of  bronze 
wrought  out  a  deliverance  for  them,  and  stone,  stands  to  memorialize." 
then  there  was  nothing  but  starva-  (Sermon  of  B.  H.  Roberts  in  the 
tion  for  the  people,  and  reproach  to  Salt   Lake   Tabernacle,   October   4, 
the  God  of  Israel  who  had  brought  1913). 
them  to  this  land.    For  this  reason  (To  be  continued) 
(jiomecoming 
Leslie  Savage  Chrk 
With  what  glad  tenderness  the  heart 
Turns  toward  home  to  trace 
Each  dear  familiar  landmark 
Of  that  beloved  place. 
So,  surely,  when  the  spirit  mounts 
Some  vast  celestial  stair 
It,  too,  will  find  love's  welcoming 
And  homeland  there. 
Sddyll    llioment 
Marie  Call  Webb 
To  my  side  has  come  my  love 
With  all  the  blossoms  his  hand  can  hold; 
The  last  of  the  roses  and  cosmos, 
Snapdragons  and  marigold. 
To  my  side  has  come  my  love, 
Most  carefully  and  slowly  came, 
His  flowers  spilling  from  his  hand. 
He  touched  my  hand  and  said  my  name. 
It  is  not  strange  when  lovers 
Bring  to  lovers  flowers. 
And  surely  these  are  fitting 
To  tell  of  love  like  ours. 
For  often  has  my  lover  come 
With  flowers  as  his  gift  for  me — 
I  am  his  wife  of  years  and  years, 
And  my  love  is  eighty-three.

(bixty    LJears  ^yigo 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  February  i,  and  February  15,  igoi 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the  Women 
OF  All  Nations" 
HOME  AND  IDEALS:  Whether  built  of  logs  or  marble,  be  the  surroundings 
picturesque  or  desolate,  a  spot  marked  by  squalor  or  opulence,  the  four  walls  of  home 
close  in  and  nurse  the  best  there  is  in  man.  ,  .  .  The  birds  on  the  garden  shrubs  unfold 
their  secrets  to  the  growing  child,  from  birds,  blossoms,  fruit  seed,  over  and  again  he 
learns  his  first  lessons  of  his  relation  to  God  and  nature.  If  art  reigns  in  the  home 
there  will  grow  out  of  it  beautiful  parks,  streets,  thoroughfares  and  cities.  ...  A  life 
consumed  by  following  society's  unprofitable  and  foolish  fashions  has  a  parallel  in  that 
of  a  woman  who  never  takes  a  moment  for  study  and  self-impro\ement  but  makes  her- 
self a  very  slave  to  her  home.  The  home  must  be  kept  sweet  and  clean  but  the  brain 
is  as  prone  to  get  cobwebby  as  the  best  room. 
— Alice  Merrill  Home 
OUR  PRINCIPAL  MISSION:  We  are  told  that  our  principal  mission  on  this 
earth  is  to  save  souls.  Not  alone  to  be  saved,  but  to  save  others.  Saviors  upon  Mount 
Zion!  It  is  a  term  of  solemn  import.  No  trifling,  no  carelessness  of  purpose  nor  act 
should  be  found  in  the  mature  Latter-day  Saint.  Souls  to  save!  Either  by  love  and 
service  to  the  living,  or  by  service  and  love  for  the  dead!     Is  not  that  our  mission? 
— Susa  Young  Gates 
A  FRIENDLY  LETTER  FROM  GLENEYRE,  COLORADO:  I  came  up  to 
visit  a  friend  who  lives  eighty  miles  from  the  railroad,  we  were  cut  off  from  all 
sociability,  only  within  ourselves.  The  wild  natural  beauty  and  the  spicy  breath  of 
pine  woods  and  mountains.  .  .  .  Friendship  induced  me  to  come  to  this  romantic 
spot.  ...  I  would  I  had  the  gifts  to  describe  the  beautiful  sunsets,  the  elevation  is  S.^oo 
feet.  .  .  .  The  house  is  picturesque,  large  and  roomy,  built  of  logs.  Situated  aloft  on 
the  very  summit  of  a  mountain  range,  yet  nestling  in  the  shelter  of  pine-coxered 
heights,  sweeping  into  circles  around  it.  .  .  .  The  little  pine  gulches  put  me  in  mind  of 
"The  Deserted  Trail": 
"And  half  way  up  there  stands  all  slim  and  white, 
A  grove  of  quaking  asps, 
And  often  there  when  morn  the  mountain  clasps, 
I've  stood  in  mute  delight. 
Between  each  sihery  stem  you  catch  a  glance 
Of  ranges  far  and  blue. 
And  one  great  peak  that  leaps  so  straight  and  true, 
A  mighty  ice-tipped  lance.  ..." 
— Luella  M.  Rhodes 
NOTTINGHAM,  ENGLAND,  RELIEF  SOCIETY  PARTY:  The  members  of 
the  Nottingham  Relief  Society  held  their  annual  party  on  Boxing  Day,  December  26, 
igoo.  A  hearty  invitation  was  extended  to  all.  A  committee  of  young  ladies  was 
appointed  to  decorate  the  room  with  Christmas  decorations,  the  tables  being  also  taste- 
fully arranged  and  decorated  with  flowers  and  ferns.  .  .  .  About  sixty  persons  sat  down 
and  took  a  hearty  meal  ...  a  short  program  was  rendered,  consisting  of  an  opening 
address  .  .  .  songs,  duets,  etc.  .  .  .  The  rest  of  the  evening  was  devoted  to  games  and 
various  amusements  were  indulged  in  to  make  the  evening  a  success.  .  .  .  Refreshments 
were  also  on  hand  for  those  who  required  them,  the  proceeds  of  which  were  to  be 
given  to  .  .  .  the  poor. 
— Edith  Cable,  Sec. 
Page  92

Woman's  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
TV/TAURINE      NEUBERGER 
(Democrat),  a  fifty-three-year- 
old  former  school  teacher,  was  elect- 
ed at  the  United  States  November 
elections,  in  Oregon,  as  a  Senator,  to 
serve  the  six-year  term,  beginning 
January  1961.  She  also  completed 
the  unexpired  term  of  her  late  hus- 
band. Senator  Richard  Neuberger 
who  died  suddenly  in  March  i960. 
She  is  the  third  woman  to  be  elected 
to  a  full  six-vear  term  in  the  Senate, 
Mrs.  Hattie  Caraway,  of  Arkansas, 
being  the  second,  and  Mrs.  Mar- 
garet Chase  Smith,  of  Maine,  (Re- 
publican) the  first.  Mrs.  Smith  had 
served  in  the  House  of  Representa- 
tives from  1940  to  1948,  the  year  of 
her  election  to  the  Senate.  In  i960, 
she  opposed  a  Democrat,  Miss 
Lucia  Cormier.  This  was  the  first 
woman-versus-woman  senatorial  con- 
test in  United  States  history. 
Vy^OMEN  elected  to  the  United 
States  House  of  Representa- 
tives are:  Democrats:  Mrs.  Edith 
Green,  Oregon;  Mrs.  Gracie  Pfost, 
Idaho;  Mrs.  Iris  F.  Blitch,  Georgia; 
Mrs.  Kathryn  E.  Granahan,  Penn- 
sylvania; Mrs.  Martha  W.  Griffiths, 
Michigan;  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Kee, 
West  Virginia;  Mrs.  Edna  F.  Kelly, 
New  York;  Mrs.  Julia  B.  Hansen, 
Washington;  Mrs.  Lenor  Kretzer 
Sullivan,  Missouri;  Republicans: 
Mrs.    Katharine    St.    George,    New 
York;  Mrs.  Frances  P.  Bolton,  Ohio; 
Mrs.  Marguerite  Stitt  Church,  Illi- 
nois; Mrs.  Florence  Dwyer,  New 
Jersey;  Mrs.  Catherine  May,  Wash- 
ington; Mrs.  Jessica  M.  Weis,  New 
York. 
■niRGITTA  and  DESIREE,  royal 
princesses  of  Sweden,  twenty- 
three  and  twenty-two  years  of  age, 
visited  the  United  States  in  Novem- 
ber. Both  are  practical,  Birgitta 
being  a  gymnastics  teacher  and  De- 
siree  a  kindergarten  teacher. 
lyiARY  BUNTING,  President  of 
Radcliffe  College,  a  noted 
microbiologist,  and  mother  of  four 
children,  has  recently  organized 
within  the  Radcliffe  curriculum  the 
''Institute  for  Independent  Study,'' 
planned  to  meet  the  needs  of  older 
women  whose  academic  careers  w^ere 
interrupted  by  marriage  and  the 
rearing  of  families.  Mrs.  Bunting 
feels  that  these  scholarly  minded 
women  have  much  to  give  in  serv- 
ice, leadership,  and  inspiration  in 
their  communities  and  in  women's 
work  in  the  world. 
•pjONA  FABIOLA  DE  MARA  Y 
ARAGON,  a  young  Spanish 
noblewoman  who  writes  fairv  tales 
for  children,  became  the  bride  of 
King  Baudoin  of  Belgium  on  De- 
cember fifteenth. 
Page  93