LESSON III. Genealogy and Literature. Third Week in October. GENEALOGY. OF THE TEUTONS. Before about 50 B. C. historical knowledge of the Teutons is lacking. For approximately the 1,000 years prior to the birth of Christ, present day historians' interest centers about the decline of the Tigris-Euphrates and the Nile river valleys' civilization and the rise of the Greco-Roman about the Mediterranean as a center. But we know very little about their neighbors, the Teutons, north of the Alps and the Balkans. Our problem is, whom are they descendants of? This question is of comparative little interest to the historian who writes from the biological point of view of life. But to the Latter-day Saint whose belief is "the earth will be smitten with a curse, unless there is a welding link of one kind or other between the fathers and the children  and tint "we without them cannot be made perfect, or they with unit us cannot be made perfect." to such, we repeat, the question is all-important. Tn the absence of history we have to go to other meaning identification. Tn the preceding lesson we quoted the historian Tacitus on these characteristic institutions, namely, religion, the family life, and government. Historians of political science acknowledge that popular, representative government is a eontribution of the Teutonic people. Greece and Rome had democratic government, but the classes, deprived of democratic rights, were much larger, and they did not know representative government. In the folk mob, or meeting of the freemen of the Teutons, to consent to or reject matters of importance in government, we have the popular element and mismanagement, or meeting of the wise men, of the tribe to counsel the king, we have a nucleus for the representative element of government. Out of these practices have been developed our present democratic representative government. These checks on their officials are evidence of their love of freedom. Tacitus says: "They chose their kings by birth, their generals for merit. These kings have not unlimited or arbitrary power, and the generals do more by example than by authority. To reprimand, to imprison, even to flog, is permitted to the priests alone, and that not as a punishment, or at the general's bidding, but, as it were, by the mandate of the god whom they believe to inspire the warrior." About the time of the birth of our Savior they were under the government of the half-constituted provinces of Rome beyond the Rhine. Tt was military and oppressive. In 9 A. D. Germany, under the leadership of Arminius, the German chieftain, and a most likely progenitor of the Anglo-Saxons of England, took up arms for her independence against Roman government. Arminius knew well the gigantic powers of the oppressor. He was no rude savage, fighting out of mere animal instinct, or in ignorance of the might of his adversary. He was familiar with the Roman language and civilization; he had served in the Roman arrest; he had been admitted to the Roman citizenship, and raised to the dignity of the equestrian order. Tt was part of the subtle policy of Rome to confer rank and privileges on the youth of the leading families in the nations which she wished to enslave. Among of her young German chieftains, .Arminius and his brother, who were the heads of the noblest houses in the tribe of the Cherusci, had been selected as fit objects for the exercise of this insidious system. Roman refinements and dignities succeeded in denationalizing the brother, who assumed the Roman name of Flavius. and adhered to Rome throughout all her wars against his country. Arminius remained unbought by honors of wealth, uncorrupted by refinement or luxury. He aspired to and obtained from Roman enmity a higher title than ever could have been given him by Roman favor. It is in the page of Rome's greatest historian, that his name has come down to us with the proud addition of the real German liberator. Creatsy. "Decisive Battles of the World," p. 130A Ranke, the foremost of our universal historians, says concerning the situation Arminius had to meet that "the self-govern- 
 ing powers, that had filled the old world, had bent one after another before the rising power of Rome, and had vanished. The earth seemed left void of independent nations." "If," says Creasj. "Arminins had been unsuccessful, our Germanic ancestors would have been enslaved or exterminated in their original seats along the Eyden and the Elbe. The island would never have borne the name England and "we, this great English nation, whose race and language are now overrunning the earth from one end of it to the other,' would have been utterly cut off from existence" (p. 129). In the above event we see a spirit which reminds us of the spirit manifested in IT Chronicles 10:1-16. Concerning their family life. Tacitus says: "Their marriage code, however, is strict, and indeed no part of their manners is more praiseworthy. Almost alone among barbarians they are content with one wife, except a very few among them, and these not for sensuality, but because their noble birth procures for them many offers of alliances. The wife does rot bring a dower to her husband, but the husband to the wife. The parents and relatives are present, and pass judgment on the marriage gifts, gifts not meant to suit a woman's taste, nor such as a bride would deck herself with, but oxen, a caparisoned steed, a shield, a lance and a sword. With these presents the wife is espoused, and she herself in turn brings her husband a gift of arms. This they count their strongest bond of union, these their sacred mysteries, these their gods of marriage. Lest the woman should think herself to stand apart from aspirations after noble deeds and from the perils of war. she is reminded by the ceremony which inaugurates marriage that she is her husband's partner in toil and danger, destined to suffer and to dare with him alike both in peace and in war. The yoked oxen, the harnessed steed, the gift of arms, proclaim this fact. She must live and die with the feeling that she is receiving what she must hand down to her children neither tarnished nor depreciated, what future daughters-in-law may receive and may be so passed on to her children. This with their virtue protected they live interrupted by the allurements of public shows or the stimulant of feasting. Clandestine correspondence is equally unknown to men and women. Very rare for so numerous a population is adultery, the punishment for which is prompt, and in the husband's power. "* * * The loss of chastity meets with no indulgence: neither beauty, youth, nor wealth will procure the culprit a husband. * * * Still better is the condition of those states in which only maidens are given in marriage, and where the hopes and expectations of a bride are then finally terminated. They receive one husband, as having one body and one life, that they may have no thoughts beyond, no further recalling desires, that they may love not so much the husband as the married state. To limit the number of their children or to destroy any of their subsequent offspring is accounted infamous, and good habits are here more effectual than good laws elsewhere." (Tacitus, "Germany and Its Tribes," pp. 100-102.) "Tradition says that armies already wavering and giving way have been rallied by women who, with earnest entreaties and bosoms laid bare, have vividly represented the horrors of captivity, which the Germans fear with such extreme dread in behalf of their women, that the strongest tie by which a state can be bound is the being required to give, among the number of hostages, maidens of noble birth. They even believe that the sex has a certain sanctity and prescience, and they do not despise their counsels, or make light of their answers. In Vespasian's day we saw Xeleda, long regarded by many as a divinity. In former times, too, they venerated Aurinia, and many other women, but not with servile flatteries, or with sham deification." (Tacitus, P. 93.) . The characteristic in the Teutons to which we wish to draw attention in religion is expressed by Rogers in "A Student's History of Philosophy." There is a fourth element which enters into modern life  the Teutonic. The contribution which it makes is the human material in which the Roman, Greek and Christian contributions were to be brought together and realized. Conceivably, the Roman world might have had within it the power to make a fresh start, and assume their new task. But historically this was not what happened. If civilization was to be carried on at all, it could only be by the assimilation of this new (Teutonic) material. Hopeless as the task appeared, in reality the Teutons, though barbarians, had in them the possibilities of a higher development than any that had preceded. Their most striking characteristic was a pronounced sense of individuality and love of freedom; but along with this there went a simplicity of character and a ruggedness of moral nature and a clearness of life which furnished admirable soil for Christianity." (pp. 212, 213.) Tacitus tells us that the Teutons preserved their race purity to a remarkable degree. In this respect they were like the Jews. And on somewhat the same principles as the Jews. Dr. Vorsaenger, a prominent rabbi of San Francisco, in reviewing the causes of this race preservation among the Jews, attributes it to the school, home and church. From the traits we have noted in the above institutions of the Germans, we can say with Professor West, head of the department of history in the University of Minnesota, that "the Germans resemble the Hebrews in a serious, earnest, imaginative temperament, which has made their Christianity differ widely 
 from that of the clear-minded, sunnier peoples of southern Europe. They felt the solemn mystery of life, with its shortness of days, its sorrows, and unsatisfied longings." | West's " Ancient World," p. 573.) Life to them, according to Green, "was built * * * on the proud self-consciousness of noble souls." The above traits and institutions point strongly to the Teulost Tentons, the Tribes ancestry of of the "Mormon" people, being a part of the Israel. In our next we shall consider the neighbors of the Teutons. QUESTIONS. By what institutions do we try to determine the ancestry of the Teutonic people. What are the chief characteristics of the government of the Teutons? Of the family life of the Teutons? In what respect is the Teutonic people a fertile soil for Christianity? With whom, genealogically, do these institutions most probably link the Teutonic people? AUTUMN LEAVES IN LITERATURE. Fall time with its wealth of color and bounties of the harvest home, has inspired almost as many songs and stories as has the blossoming spring. These autumn leaves of literature give an added charm when read in the season thereof. The enjoyment of them may be increased by sharing them with one another. For these reasons we suggest that an hour be spent in class, and many hours in the home, reading the songs and stories appropriate for the autumn time. One poem especially that should be read and re-read is James hitcomb Riley's  "When the Frost is on the Pumpkin and the Fodder's in the Shock." Tt breathes the spirit of Thanksgiving as expressed from the heart of an old farmer, and suggests pictures of the fall time in such artistic lines as these: "The husky-rusty rustle of the tassels of the corn And the raspin' of their tangled leaves as golden as the morn. "The stubble in the furries, kindo' lonesome like, but still A preachin' sermons to us of the barns they growed to fill." The whole poem may be easily obtained and read in class. Helen Hunt Jackson, the author of "Ramona," has also given us several delicate little lyrics of autumn. The following lines are taken from one of them: GUIDE LESSONS. 
 "The golden rod is yellow. The corn is turning brown; And trees in apple orchards With fruit are bending down. "The sedges flaunt their harvest. Tn every meadow nook, And asters by the brookside Make asters in the brook." She sings also in another poem of "October's bright blue weather," and in still another of November as the time "when all wild things lie down to sleep." John Greenleaf Whittier is another poet who expresses the spirit of autumn in several poems. His "Corn Song," which closes these: the poem called "The Huskers," rings with lusty lines like "Heap high the farmer's wintry hoard. Heap high the golden corn. No richer gift has autumn poured From out her lavish horn." In "Mabel Martin," Whittier also pictures the husking bee and tells us an interesting story of a girl whose mother has been killed as a witch by the Puritans of New England. Another of his poems, "The Pumpkin." is in a lighter vein. The following stanza is taken from it: "Oh, on Thanksgiving day, when from east and from west, From north and from south comes the pilgrim and guest, When the gray-haired New Englander sees round his board The old broken links of friendship restored, What cheers up the heart, what moistens the eye, What brings back the past like a rich pumpkin pie?" But of all the songs of thanksgiving none breathe the spirit of gratitude so truly as do the songs of praise found among the Psalms, the following of which is illustrative: "Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands. "Serve the Lord with gladness; come before his presence with singing. "Know ye that the Lord he is God; it is he that hath made is. and not we ourselves: we are his people, and the sheep of his pasture. "Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise: P>e thankful unto him. and bless his name. 
 "lor the Lord is good, his mercy is everlasting; and his truth endureth to all generations" (Ps. LOO). I me of the sweetest stories of the autumn time also comes From the Bible the Story of Ruth, who gleaned in the fields of Bethlehem. This simple pastoral pictures in a beautiful way tinlife of the common folk of Israel, showing them at work in the field and at their homely daily duties. Manx other stories have been sel in the autumn time. The old aired tale of Persephone is one of them. It tells us about Mother Ceres, the goddess of the harvest, who had one beautiful daughter Persephone. ( me day Persephone was playing with the sea nymphs when I 'Into, tile god of the underworld, suddenly appeared in his chariot drawn by four coal black steeds. Me seized Persephone and bore her away to list home under the earth.  When Mother teres found that her daughter had been stolen. she grieved so much that she could not work. The harvests were neglected; the plants drooped and died, the leaves fell and winter covered the earth. Mother Ceres meanwhile went searching everywhere For her lost child. When she finally learned from Apollo where Persephone had keen taken, she appealed to Jupiter, the -'eat All Father. Jupiter commanded Pluto to release the girl, and Persephone was returned to her mother. The earth immediately grew glad again. The birds returned, the blossoms and leaves came hack to the trees and the world became fruitful once more. Another interesting old-time tale suggestive of the harvest season, comes to us from the American Indians. This story '? Mondamin." which is an Indian name for corn, tells how this grain came as a gift from the Great Spirit to the poor Indians. In the legends of the Redmen, the corn plays an important part. Edna Dean Proctor, in a stirring poem, suggests that America's emblems be "the bounteous golden corn." Besides these old time tales suggestive of the harvest time, there are many modern stories set in the autumn time, particularly in connection with Thanksgiving. This holiday, given to us by the Pilgrims, has clustered much romance about it. Joining the most interesting of the stories that rightly belong to this time is "The Courtship of Miles St;md:sh." by Longfellow, This is a most artistic poem picturing the Pilgrim life and thought and telling of the courtship of Priscilla. the Puritan maiden by the captain of the Pilgrim army. Instead of going himself. Standish sends John Mden, Priscilla's lover. John crushes his own feel to do the bidding of his friend, but Priscilla who reads her lover's heart turns the proposal towards John. Standish is rejected; he denounces John as a traitor, and leaves on an capedi tion against the Indians. News comes that the Captain is slain. Priscilla and John are united, and just as the ceremony is being performed, Standish reappears. Forgiveness and reconciliation follow and all ends well. This story, to be fully enjoyed, should be read in its poetic by Longfellow. Its pictures of Pilgrim life and its Biblical allusions are splendid. Another story that breathes the spirit of true Thanksgiving is that of our Pioneers. The tale of the Crickets and the Seagulls has come to be a nationalized story of God's goodness and man's gratitude. It is like the tale of the manna sent to the Children of Israel. In these days of stress and trial, of struggle against want and famine, it is surely meet that we should retell these and other tales and sing anew the songs of praise and thanksgiving. LESSON OUTLINE. 1. Find a copy of Rileys' "When the Frost is on the Punkin,"  study it, and have some good reader read it to the class. 2. Have Helen Hunt Jackson's three poems, "September," "October," and "November" likewise read in class. 3. What other autumn poems or songs do you know? Be ready to give them. 4. Tell briefly the story of Ruth. What verse from it has particularly pleased you? 5. What is the significance in nature of the story of Persephone? 6.Tell the story of the First Thanksgiving. (It may be found in "The Story Hour" by Kate Douglas Wiggin, and in other books that tell of the Pilgrims.) 7. Tell the story of "The First Thanksgiving in Utah,"-  the tale of the Gulls and the Crickets. If any pioneer mother or father can