[Vol16 | July 1929 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Pioneers Lois V. Hales]
Pioneers STANLEY VESTAL'S KIT CARSON?THE HAPPY WARRIOR OF THE OLD WEST By Las V. Hales "On Christmas Day, 1809, an undersized, tow-headed, bandylegged, blue-eyed boy sped into the world, squalling lustily with an uncontrolled excitement which no later adventure could arouse in him.

Small, bandy-legged, blue-eyed, and sandy-haired he remained to the end of his days, and to this unimpressive appearance the sun added freckles." Yet this boy, apparently no different from other lads of his family and community, was to be the archetype of the American pioneer.

He was to become the hero "who personified American enterprise in the Far West?the banner which was to wave the pioneers forward into the Great American Desert." He was to become the hero of the prairies, the "soul of the Old West." In Stanley Vestal's new book, "Kit Carson," we have the authentic story of this boy as well as a vivid picture of the old frontier?the pioneer West.

It is artistically, vividly, and authentically written.

It follows Kit Carson down through his life as greenhorn, mountain man, plainsman, pathfinder, soldier, rancher, Indian agent, patriot and peacemaker.

Even as a very young boy Mr, Vestal felt that there was something wrong with the standard biographies of Kit Carson, which portrayed him as a striking but unaccountable hero.

These books did not relate Kit to the times he lived in, and he therefore seemed unreal and colorless.

Mr. Vestal felt that now was the time to write to the adventures of Kit for soon "there would be no one who had talked face to face with his contemporaries, no one left who knew what a tepee smells like, or how a beaver trap was set, no one to make real the background out of which his adventures grew, and against which they must be seen." As Odysseus was a symbol of the Greek seafarings, so Kit Carson has become a symbol of the American frontier and it is important, Mr. Vestal says, that we "understand and love the thing Kit represents?that Frontier which made these States a Nation." Mr. Vestal knows the country over which Kit Carson ranged.

He grew up with the Cheyenne and Arapaho Indians, the tribes that Kit knew best.

Today Mr. Vestal is Professor of English in the University of Oklahoma and a writer of note.

The Carsons had been pioneers since the first one left Scotland.

Very early Kit saw the cruelty of life in the wilderness, and PIONEERS 397 his quick impulsiveness became "tempered by caution which nicely balanced the swift decision and passionate action so characteristic of the man." Kit became very early an expert trapper and Indian scalper.
