[Vol55 | July 1968 | Page 486 | Special Feature | After Eighty Years | Belle S. Spafford]
[After Eighty Years Belle S. Spafford]

an." In the early part of the 19th Century, a woman's world, in large measure, was her home and _ her church with, perhaps, a few humanitarian services extended to her immediate community. Life for the average woman was hard, and many shackles bound her in the development of her talents and in the exercise of her abilities, as well as in the exercise of her Godordained free agency. There were rigid barriers of law against property holding and guardianship of children. Most industries refused to employ her and those which did employ her, offered only routine labor with long hours and low pay. The taboos of society on education and public expression, along with the prevalent superstition which held, 'the weak, feminine brain, incapable of serious thinking..." shackled her personal development. The advantages of education were extremely limited. Colleges of higher learning did not admit her. The political privileges of woman were nil. There had been sporadic woman's clubs of a sort—neighbors meeting together for sociability and the exercise of their minds— with some groups working in a haphazard fashion for the public good. These clubs were poorly organized, however, and affairs were largely controlled by husbands of the members. The National Council of Women In 1833, a few bold women formed the first woman's club with a political purpose—the Philadelphia Female Anti-Slavery Society. The furor which this aroused is described in the book, Angels and Amazons, issued by the National Council of Women of the United States, in 1935. It states that the woman who identified herself with this group was regarded as bold and unwise indeed, for a_ respectable woman did not speak in _ public, nor did she organize in behalf of any political cause. At the first convention held by this group, a mob roared outside the meeting place, and following the meeting the building was burned. Woman was not to be deterred, however, in her efforts for emancipation. Early in 1848, Elizabeth Cady Stanton joined with Lucretia Mott, Martha C. Wright, and Mary Ann McClintock in calling what is regarded as the first Woman's Rights Convention. It was held July 19, 1848, in the little Wesleyan Chapel at Seneca Falls, New York. In the book, Angels and Amazons, we read that the word "convention," as a term for this meeting "expressed hope rather than _ fulfillment.... It was practically a small assembly of neighbors." It thrashed out, however, the first public "Declaration of Independence _ for Woman," with which most of you are familiar. This "Declaration" was the offspring of the pen of Mrs. Stanton who, in reality, was the chief agent in calling the convention. Forty years later came _ that highly significant event—a_convention convened March 25, 1888, in Alboughs Opera House in Washington, D. C. To observe the 40th Anniversary of the first public declaration of women's rights. The convention was called by the National Woman's Suffrage As- 

487 July 1968

 sociation with two giants of the early suffrage movement—Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony —as the key figures. Their primary purpose in calling the convention was to further the cause of woman's suffrage. So strong were the convictions of Mrs. Stanton on the importance of woman's suffrage, that, according to one of her biographers, Theodore Tilton, "... She would willingly give her body to be burned for the sake of seeing her sex enfranchised." While Susan B. Anthony, according to one of her biographers, Ida H. Harper, "stood ready to sink all personal feelings.. For the sake of promoting this cause which she placed above all else in the world." It was a day of rejoicing for these two great advocates of woman's rights when Frederick Douglass, a _ respected and influential community leader of the day, who had been invited to speak at the convention, wrote: "The cause of woman's suffrage has under it a truth as eternal as the universe of thought, and must triumph if this planet endures." Invitations to the 1888 Washington convention were issued to seventy-seven women's organizations selected as being of either national scope or of national value. Of this number, fifty-three accepted. In addition to the delegates from the United States, there were representatives from England, France, Norway, Denmark, Finland, India, and Canada. Eighty speakers addressed the convention. The central figure proved to be: Susan B. Anthony. In her black dress and pretty red silk shawl with her gray-brown hair smoothly combed over a regal head, she was every inch a stateswoman. In addressing a meeting preliminary to the convention, Susan B. Anthony, with all the earnestness of her strong nature and in 488 a voice vibrating with emotion, set forth far-sighted views. With regard to the platform—views which maintain today in the National Council of Women. Said Mrs. Anthony, "We have now come to another turning point and, if it is necessary, I will fight forty years more to make our platform for the Christian to stand upon. Whether she be a Catholic who counts her beads or a Protestant of the strictest Orthodox creed... These are the principles I want to maintain: that our platform may be kept as broad as the universe; that upon it may stand the representatives of all creeds and of no -creeds—Jew or Christian, Protestant or Catholic, Gentile or Mormon, Pagan or Atheist." (It may be of interest to you who know the price of your seat at a table today, to learn that, for the opening session of the 1888 Washington convention, 25c was charged, with 50c for seats in the reserved section.) In the book entitled, The Life and Work of Susan B. Anthony, by Ida Husted Harper, published in 1898, the Washington convention is referred to as "the greatest women's convention ever held." Certainly, we must concede that this convention remains among the greatest woman's conventions ever held as we contemplate that it was utilized as the springboard for the formation of the National Council of Women of the United States and the International Council of Women, whose continuing influences over a_ period of eighty years have reached into hamlet and city, touched for good the lives of people of many nations and all races, helped win for woman in our own beloved Nation the right of suffrage through the adoption of the 19th Amendment to the Constitution in 1920; helped woman in other nations toward suffrage; helped open for woman doors of opportunity and service; effectively contributed toward lifting woman to a position of dignity, trust, and responsibility in community life and world affairs; and. Perhaps, most important of all, helped woman to realize her own potential as a thinking, feeling, producing and contributing human being in a world where such is sorely needed. So today we pay tribute to those stalwart women who launched the so-called "women's movement"; we honor those who called the 1888 convention; we _ revere those whose foresight and genius conceived the Councils of Women and set the sails that bade them where to go: Susan B. Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Lucretia Mott, Lucy Stone, the Grimkie sisters, Frances Willard, Clara Barton, and others of immortal memory. We pay tribute to those other women of lesser prominence who caught the vision, played well their respective parts in the founding of the Councils, and in the advancement of the cause of woman. Without them the convention could have failed in its purposes. These were the delegates who came, who listened, who were convinced, and who went forth to act in their respective spheres of influence. They, too, were women of stature —enlightened, courageous, tireless in their dedication to the cause they espoused. One such woman was Emily S. Tanner Richards, the official delegate to the convention from the organization which I represent today. May I present a brief word picture of Mrs. Richards, with the hope that in so doing, you may also see the other delegates, how they worked, and the magnitude of their contribution. The National Council of Women Mrs. Richards' place of residence was in Salt Lake City in the heart of the Rocky Mountains. By nature she loved freedom and by environment she enjoyed it. Her husband was an attorney whose affairs took him often to Washington D. C. Mrs. Richards usually accompanied him. While in Washington, she had rare opportunities to be instructed and inspired by the great suffrage leaders. These influences, together with the teachings of her Church, which accepts free agency as a God-given right, and which at the time of its founding granted woman the religious vote, made of her a strong advocate of the rights of woman and a consistent believer in the obligations that accompany these rights. Her supporting voice was clearly lifted at the Washington convention. Upon her return home, she was appointed by the National Suffrage Association as chief organizer for Utah. With intelligence and courage, she led this organization, rallying to her many prominent and_ capable women dedicated to the cause of national suffrage. With conviction as to the place of women in public service, she organized women's charity societies, establishing in that early day a child placing service. She organized a_ political education society known as_ the Utah State Council of Women. There then came into being the organization of The League of Woman Voters to which she lent her great administrative strengths. She won appointments to school and library boards, and_ helped other women of competence to do so as well. She influenced legislation. Step by step, she and her associates established in community leaders a confidence in the ability of woman to take her place at the side of man, at length receiving responsible assignments and special 

489 July 1968

 honors from Utah's Governors. Thus did Mrs. Richards advance the so-called Woman's Movement in Utah. Similarly, it was advanced throughout the width and breadth of the land by other delegates to the Washington convention. Today we also pay tribute to the National Council of Women of the United States and to the International Council, which for eighty years have consistently made their organized contributions to the achievements of woman. We honor them for the way in which they have held to the original concept of an aggregation of organizations extending their influence and power by uniting as a single body on matters of common concern. We respect them for their integrity with regard to suffrage, and for their readiness to lend their influence in its behalf wherever it has been denied to woman. We admire them for their achievements and for their continuing concern for human well-being. True, new interests and activities engage the Councils as times and needs change, but throughout the years they have held firm to a body of principles which was patterned by Elizabeth Cady Stanton who penned the first "Woman's Declaration of Independence: Good home and family life, proper care of children, temperance, woman's suffrage and the widening of woman's sphere, indignation against all forms of oppression, love of liberty and love of justice, respect for human rights and human dignity." Just as the beginning years of the woman's movement claimed great and enlightened women leaders, so have the advancing years. We pay tribute today to such brilliant and distinguished women as May Wright Sewell, Dr. Anna Garland Spencer, Mary McLeod Bethune, Eleanor Roosevelt, to 490 mention but a few. Nor do we lose sight of the dedicated leaders among us today who generously devote their time, energies, talents, and means to the great purposes of the Council. We pay special tribute to our present dynamic and capable president, Mrs. Mildred Robbins. In a day referred to by the columnist as woman's triumphant day of achievement, let us rejoice in the accomplishments of the past and the good of the present, and let us look with clear vision toward the future. None would deny that we are living in a day of turmoil, upheaval, and _ confusion; and that the action of today will leave its mark on the world of tomorrow. Let us then remind ourselves that the struggles and sacrifices that have brought woman to her present position of influence and power require that she shall use these strengths to dissipate hate and _ prejudice, allay fear, promote understanding; that she shall stand firm for respect for law and order; that she shall intelligently exercise her hard-won rights of suffrage in obtaining everimproved laws and honorable and worthy government; that she shall engage in intelligent and_ welldirected action that effectively will contribute toward building a better world. Today our focus must be on _ our _ responsibilities rather than on our rights. Power is in our hands. How best to use that power is the challenge before us. Can we not meet this challenge with the same degree of success that the women of the past met the challenges of their day? Can we not do so with confidence, working unitedly under the aegis of the National Council of Women which for eighty years has performed with integrity and honor? I believe we can. MONUMENT VALLEY by Josef Muench fe. 4 THE WEAVER The woman's days are patterned as the sand Where wind has blown. From dawn''s first coral to the evening's deep Vermilion tone She weaves a weft of footsteps on the land Behind her flock Where sun has made a moving warp of shade From standing rock. She sees the night, the lightning's jagged thrust In black and white And steps around the cacti bush whose blooms Are flaming bright. In burning summer sun or hogan's dusk Of winter gloom She deftly weaves the pattern of her days Upon her loom. —Alice Morrey. Bailey 491 s That morning I was at the kitchen table writing to my folks, when my husband banged in through the back door. "Guess Ill begin plowing that west forty this morning," he announced. "Yeah?" I managed vaguely, without looking up. "Be time to plant now before I'm ready." He stood there waiting for me, I knew, to show interest in the west forty, but I went right on with my letter. "... It seems like six years, instead of six months, since we moved out here. Sometimes I'm so lonely I could plain die." The back door opened and closed. Ron had gone to his plowing. Quickly, I pushed away from the table, went to the window. He was standing at the back gate, looking at the west forty. What a handsome man he was, tall and strong, the active, outof-doors type. He belonged here in Wyoming, on the land. I was selfish to expect him to spend 492 f f+}: ' a oO ee - \ ye - F «yi ]: sy,, * f # ~~ I Pa }. Y 2? His life back home in an office, at a desk. I wanted to go to him, to crook my arm through his and walk with him to the barn.