[Vol55 | July 1968 | Page 512 | General Feature | Casseroles for the Picnic | Alice Willardson]
—Annie Atkin Tanner S11 Casseroles for the Summer Picnic Alice Willardson s "Dinner-in-a-Dish" is so easy to serve. It can be prepared beforehand for company or Sunday dinner. It can be baked in any sized baking dish, a big one for the family, or to take to a home where the mother is ill; or divide the recipe and bake one today and freeze the other to use later. It is fun to fill one or two individual size baking dishes and take them to a sick person or to someone living alone. They are more welcome than sweets. You can use any kind of meat, poultry, or seafoods. Leftovers are not leftovers anymore, if you put them in a tasty casserole. Cold roasts, tuna, chicken, turkey, ham, sausage, or even bacon crisps are delicious. Rice, spaghetti, egg noodles, are all good bases, but so are vegetables like potatoes or parsnips. Corn, peas, and beans can substitute as part of the base and add flavorful nourishment. Of course, onions, peppers, mushrooms, tomatoes, herbs, and spices are all at your command. Asparagus or broccoli and parsley will add color. There are a variety of sauces, from plain white sauce, or cheese sauce, to mushroom or cream of chicken soup, and don't forget to use the stock from chicken or roast meats, or any kind of gravy. Buttered bread crumbs, crushed potato chips, or cheese dress up the top and hold in all those good flavors. So be original, have a change, try a delightful, big casserole for that summer picnic or for any other occasion! TUNA CASSEROLE 1 c. Diced celery 1 can (3 oz.) Chinese chow mein noodles 1 c. Chopped onions 1 can (10% oz.) cream of chicken soup 1 pkg. (% c.) salted, roasted cashew nuts___1 can (10'% oz.) mushroom soup 1 can (7 oz.) tuna fish or 2 c. Cooked chicken Boil celery and onions in 1 c. Water for 10 minutes. Combine all ingredients in casserole dish, top with crumbs, cheese, crushed potato chips, or any preferred topping, and bake in 350° oven for 30 minutes. Serves six. RICE PILAF 1 can (10% oz.) mushroom soup pinch oregano 1 can (10% oz.) bouillon 2 Ibs. Cubed or ground beef, browned 1 tsp. Salt 3 onions, finely chopped Y% tsp. Thyme 1 c. Diced celery 2 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 1 c. Brown rice Combine soup, bouillon, and seasonings and bring to a boil. Add remainder of ingredients. Place in casserole dish and bake at 325° for two hours, checking for moisture. If casserole becomes dry, add small amount of water. Serves eight. 512 Dorothy J. Roberts CHICKEN CASSEROLE 2 ats, uncooked poultry dressing 1% \b. Cooked, cubed chicken Sauce > c. Melted fat salt to taste 2 tbsp. Flour 3 eggs (optional) 1 qt. Chicken broth Combine flour with hot fat, chicken broth, and salt, stirring until smooth. Add beaten egs yolks. Beat egg whites until stiff. And fold into mixture. Place a layer of poultry dressing in bottom of baking dish. Then a layer of chicken, and a layer of sauce. Repeat until the dish is nearly full, finishing with chicken and sauce. Sprinkle with buttered bread crumbs, and bake at 350° for 30 to 40 minutes. Serves iW CHOW MEIN 2c. Dry spaghetti or wide noodles 1 c. Drained peas 1 Ib. Ground beef and 1 tsp. Salt 1 c. Cubed cheese 1 green pepper, chopped 1 pint tomato juice Cook spaghetti (or noodles, whichever you wish to use) in salted water and drain. Sear meat and fry chopped onion and pepper with meat. Combine all ingredients. Buttered bread crumbs with grated cheese make a good topping. Bake 45 minutes in 350° oven. Serves 6. HAM CASSEROLE 2/3 c. YICe, uncooked 1 can cream of chicken soup lA c. Chopped celery 2 ¢. Diced ham 1 medium-sized onion, chopped Cook rice in boiling salted water, drain. Boil celery and onion together in one cup water for 10 minutes. Combine all ingredients, top with buttered bread crumbs, and bake 30 minutes in 350° oven. Serves 6. 513 GRANDFATHER'S DAY Evelyn Fyeldsted CS, ef 1 » Growing old, (i at Grandfather said, a was like coming to the close of a long, eventful day, a day of great blessings and many and varied Vi experiences. Always there had been the N pg need for prayers. This was a time when the young folks were leaving to make of life a long, venturesome day for themselves, but Grandpa said their nearness would always remain, with the knowledge that they would return, if ever they were needed. Wherever Grandpa was, there seemed to be a kind of peace, and whenever he entered a room, there was that same quiet reassurance. It was as if he, having lived long, had found something that we had not yet known. Daylight was like the light of evening for Grandpa, and so he had come to rely mostly on insight. He said there was not need for hurry or for worry, for time was on the side of those who had lived long—a time when life was better understood. The time had come when Grandpa could nap undisturbed, which he did quite frequently. He would awaken always with a sense of peace, which must have come from this deeper understanding and which seemed to have become almost a part of him. At times he still played his violin—the violin that had made so much merriment for the people in the valley long ago. The musicmaker of his time, who had played in such a lively fashion, could still imagine the young people and older ones dancing the waltz and the square dances that were so beautiful at that time. To him it could have been only yesterday. He could be remembering the time when he was just a boy carrying water to the soldiers who were stationed at the Racky Point during the Indian Wars in Sanpete County. Sometimes two other grandpas, two other Indian War veterans, would come to visit with him. Grandpa would awaken and welcome them. They would place their chairs close together. They could not hear each other very well, but they would talk and laugh about many things. Sometimes their talk would take a serious turn. A sadness seemed to touch them for a little while, but mostly they would have a good time.