[Vol55 | July 1968 | Page 484 | Special Feature | The National Council of Women Observes Eightieth Anniversary | Belle S. Spafford]
June Erskine Booth Ames, Iowa THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN OF THE UNITED STATES OBSERVES EIGHTIETH ANNIVERSARY President Belle S. Spafford » The grand ballroom of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York City was the setting, on April 1, 1968, for an auspicious occasion in the history of the National Council of Women of the United States. A beautifully appointed luncheon meeting designated as, "A First Lady's Luncheon," marked the eightieth anniversary of the founding of the National Council of Women of the United States and, at the same time, the founding of the International Council of Women. Established primarily in the 484 interest of woman's suffrage, the N. C. W., through the years, has extended its interests and influence in harmony with the preamble to its constitution adopted at the organization meeting, which embodies the governing principles of the institution today: We, women of the United States, sincerely believing that the best good of our homes and nation will be advanced by our own greater unity of thought, sympathy and purpose, and that an organized movement will best conserve the highest good of the family and State, do hereby band ourselves together in a confederation of workers committed to the overthrow of all forms of ignorance and injustice, and to the application of the Golden Rule in society, custom and law. The precise measure of the accomplishments of the Council would be impossible to determine. We must concede, however, that, for over three quarters of a century, it has had a far-reaching influence for good in the life of the Nation and in the wellbeing of womankind. The' eightieth anniversary function was sponsored by the Council with Mrs. Louis J. Robbins (Millie) presiding and conducting. Seated with her on the dais were the present officers of the Council, the president of the 1. C. W., Mrs. Erwin Schuller, the program speakers, and a few women who received the Council's "Woman of Conscience" award for distinguished community service. There were more than 700 women in attendance, with sixtyone countries of the world represented. There are sixty-two countries with organized national councils which are members of the I. C. W. Of these sixty-two I councils, forty-one were represented at the luncheon meeting honoring the N. C. W. Of the United States which was the first national council to be established in the world. The achievements of woman and the scope of her interest and services were evidenced in the following professional groups represented by _ distinguished leaders at this impressive anniversary function: music; art; the theater; fashion designing; interior designing; law; public relations; publishing; advertising; economics; medicine; nursing; government—one ambassador, two city mayors, and other governmental units; department store officials; stock brokers; industries; secretarial groups; and volunteer organizations. The program aimed to recognize the past in the world of woman, her place today, and what may be expected of her tomorrow. Relief Society was highly honored in having its General President, Belle S. Spafford, the featured speaker. Billed on the printed program "A First Lady" in civic work, her subject dealt with the founding and history of the Council and was designed to show how the past influenced the present. Cornelia Otis Skinner, well-known author, actress, and lecturer, billed "A First Lady" in the arts, delightfully described what the theater was like across the country eighty years ago. Dr. Benetta B. Washington, director of the woman's job corps, billed "A First Lady" in education, impressively depicted how the present influences the future. Speakers were introduced by The National Council of Women President Robbins—poised, dignified, and charmingly attractive in a modest, fashionably designed sunshine-yellow dress enhancing her simply styled dark hair and sparkling eyes. In introducing each speaker, Mrs. Robbins referred to her major interests, activities, and leadership achievements in areas of concern to women. Her introductions reflected her depth of understanding of the purposes of the Council and her earnest conviction that organized women can contribute toward a better world. This anniversary meeting came at an uneasy moment in the history of our Nation and at a critical world period. Sensitive to conditions, the notable, seriousminded women leaders assembled in honor of the founding of the Councils of Women, came not in a spirit of celebration, but in a spirit of dedication—dedication to intensified and _ intelligently directed efforts that would contribute toward resolving the causes of national unrest and world crises. Relief Society and The Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, both of which were charter members of the N. C. W. Of the United States, and by virtue of this membership, affiliates of the International Council of Women, were represented at this important gathering of women by their respective presidents, as well as by other Latterday Saint women leaders. A natural pride was felt in seeing on the dais in her position as Fourth Vice-President of the Council an outstanding Latterday Saint woman, Mrs. John Q. Cannon (Anna Laura Stohl)—a 

485 July 1968

 daughter-in-law of Annie Wells Cannon, lovingly remembered and honored by Latter-day Saint women for her Church and community service; a granddaughterin-law of Emmeline B. Wells, fourth General President of Relef Society and one of the foremost early-day suffrage leaders, an intimate friend of Susan B. Anthony and an active participant in N. C. W. Affairs during her day. These two Church women's auxiliaries—the Relief Society and the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association are two of the remaining three charter members of the Council. A simple but effective exhibit of the work of both organizations was displayed in a room adjoining the ballroom, along with displays of other member organizations of the Council. They attracted considerable attention. Through the years, Relief Society and the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association have benefited through their membership in the Councils and we trust they have contributed to the accomplishments of their great purposes. Council of Women of the United States, held April 1, 1968, at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, New York, N. Y.) A newspaper columnist, speaking recently of the present day, referred to it as "woman's era—her triumphant day of achievement." Certainly it is a day when, in most countries of the world, discrimination against woman because of her sex, In large measure, has been removed. Today she is a person of consequence in national and international affairs. In our own great Nation, doors of opportunity are invitingly open to her in the fields of business and the_ professions, and she is steadily making inroads into the top policy-making levels of government. There is scarcely any field of human endeavor she may not enter if she wills to do so. Her opinions are sought and respected, and her influence on national attitudes, programs, and 486 practices, on American home and family life, as well as on social and economic conditions generally, is a potent one. While woman points with pride, and justly so, to her position of dignity and influence today, she is not unmindful that this position was hard won; that it was not conferred upon her merely through the good graces of change. She knows that each forward step has been taken over a rough and rocky obstacle course. She knows, also, that preceding her was another woman whose vision, courage, and determination enabled her to carry the lighted lamp and level the rugged ground. It seems appropriate, as we observe the 80th Anniversary of the founding of the National Council of Women of the United States, and also the International Council of Women, that we look back a moment at the road that has been traveled and at the woman of yesterday whose efforts brought us to this triumphant day of achievement. It is appropriate inasmuch as one of the avowed purposes of the Councils was to unite, as a body of women, to "devise new and effective methods of securing equality and justice for
