[Vol55 | July 1968 | Page 495 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
Woman's Ramona W. Cannon Thalassa Cruso, British-born horticulturist, conducts a twice-weekly television show called: ''Making Things Grow,'' which is carried over five educational stations in New England. Mrs. Cruso has the remarkable gift of making garden chores and the care of houseplants appear as an intriguing adventure. Initially trained as an archeologist, she is the wife of Hugh Hencken, curator of European archeology at Harvard's Peabody Museum. She declares that she has changed her archeological ''digging"' in favor of working with plants and studying their requirements for maximum growth, beauty, and productivity. Mothers whose children are hospitalized at the University of Kentucky Medical Center at Lexington, are allowed to live in with the children who are undergoing treatment or recovering from surgery. The mothers are instructed in nursing procedures and are able to give comfort, care, and emotional support to their children while they are hospitalized, as well as being prepared to give home care after the children leave the hospital. Dr. Sylvia Earle Mead is a researcher at Harvard University, currently making a study of seaweed which she gathered off the coast of Chile. A marine biologist, Dr. Mead studies the chemical composition and possible uses of seaweed. Her husband, Giles Mead, is curator of fishes at the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard. They are the parents of two young daughters. Helen Quach, twenty-seven, is an assistant conductor of the New York Philharmonic Orchestra. She is a five-foot-two Chinese girl, born in Saigon and reared in Australia and was graduated from the Sydney Conservatory of Music. Last year Miss Quach was one of four winners of the Dimitri Mitropoulos International Music Competition. When conducting, she wears a classic Chinese gown. Charlotte Montgomery, nationally known as a reporter of news and problems concerning the American housewife, represents the Women's Conference on the Board of Directors of the National Safety Council, and is a trustee of the Better Business Bureau's Educational Foundation. She is a mother and a housewife, vitally interested in better homes and better training of children. Marie Morisawa, a geologist and researcher in the earth sciences, at Antioch College (Ohio), is the author of Streams: Their Dynamics and Morphology (Antioch publications).
