[Vol55 | July 1968 | Page 526 | General Feature | Notes From the Field Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field Relief Society Activities]

But don't call him my Mr. McPherson." "Well, we shall see. As I said before...." "As I'm saying now, let's go to sleep. I've had enough excitement for one day." "Ah, so the day was exciting! Well, that's promising." Maureen made no answer. Nor did she drop off to sleep right away. The day had been most interesting. She would go back Monday and buy the painting of the cottage, if she could afford it. She would much rather have it than one of the castle. Come to think of it, she would rather have the cottage. It was simply enchanting. Maybe she would take that for her share of the estate and let Bruce have the rest. " (To be continued) 525 Relief Society Activities Nevada Stake, Lund Ward Singing Mothers Present Music for Ward Conference April 21, 1968 Front row, left to right: Margaret Gubler, director and accompanist; Elinor Gardner, chorister; Helen Paice, homemaking leader, Nevada Stake Relief Society; sixth from left: Harriet Ivins, stake visiting teacher message leader. Second row, fifth from left: Mattie Jean Kilmer, social relations class leader; seventh from left: Colleen Scow, President, Lund Ward Relief Society. Beverly A. Sandburg, President, Nevada Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The members of this ward are all faithful in attending practices and present outstanding musical programs. They are always willing to participate in stake activities when called upon." Florida Mission, Georgia-Florida District Annual Visiting Teacher Convention Georgia-Florida District Relief Society Board, seated, left to right: Jean Webb, spiritual living class leader; Melva Lee Brown, chorister; Ora Wilkerson, First Counselor; Ruby Fussell, President; Vela Hawkins, Second Counselor; Dora Solomon, visiting teacher message leader; Elizabeth Lott, social relations class leader. Those standing are visiting teachers. Marva Rudd, Supervisor, Florida Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The GeorgiaFlorida District held their annual visiting teacher convention. The theme was 'Improve the Shining Moments With Music.' We have much talent in this district and were favored with 'The Visiting Teacher's Song,' a lovely vocal solo, and an outstanding violin solo. A film strip was shown, and lunch was served by the board, assisted by M. I. A. Girls of the Douglas Branch." Hunter Stake (Utah) Hunter Seventh Ward Visiting Teachers Gain Outstanding Achievement Hunter Seventh Ward Relief Society officers, first row, beginning second from left: Janet Rabey, Second Counselor; Lurae Garn, President; Theone Rees, First Counselor; Lora Rushton, Secretary-Treasurer; Lucille Rushton, visiting teacher supervisor; eighth from left, Genesee Roderick, visiting teacher supervisor. Second row, at left: Vera Halbert, visiting teacher message leader. Florence K. Judkins, President, Hunter Stake Relief Society, reports: '"'The Hunter Seventh Ward was organized in 1965. At that time the Relief Society set a goal to achieve one hundred per cent visiting teaching each year. They have met their goal. "The leaders are proud of the visiting teachers and the efforts they have made, and they have encouraged them and backed their efforts fully. We are very proud of this ward and they are an example to the entire stake.'' 526 4%. 7, 2! Yi. Ieee ° =" he" te -" —_ 7. At VED Py PS Pd July 1968 North Rexburg Stake (Idaho), Hibbard Ward Relief Society Presents "A Call to Benevolence" at Sacrament Meeting March 22, 1968 Cast of '"'A Call to Benevolence," front row, left to right: Flora Belle Johnson, Second Counselor, Hibbard Ward Relief Society; Corrine Hendricks, First Counselor; Guinevere Taylor, President; Harriet Rigby, spiritual living class leader; Karen Reno, narrator; Marcene Sommer; Marie Sommer; Evelyn Cheney; Arva Robison.. Back row, left to right: Vera Orr, chorister; Venese Bowen, stake organist; Elizabeth Neville; Ellen Willmore; Nina Ricks, stake chorister; Helen Oldham, visiting teacher message leader; Ruth Willmore; Nina Morris; Jylene Josephson, soloist; Theda Neville; Emile Sommer; Alice Tuckett; Lorna Leatham; Thelma Clements. Mary R.-Rydalch, President, North Rexburg Stake Relief Society, reports: ''This program, commemorating the 126th anniversary of Relief Society, was one of the outstanding events in our stake this year. We are proud of this ward and the ae that went into the presentation." South Bear River Stake (Utah) Visiting Teacher Convention February 23, 1968 Back row, beginning with gentleman partially blocked from view, left to right: K. H. Fridal, Stake Relief Society High Council Advisor; Jeanetta M. Rose, visiting teacher message leader; Mabel C. Anderson, First Counselor; Ruth J. Hunsaker, President; Donna B. Worley, Second Counselor; Alice C. Harris, Secretary-Treasurer. Gentleman in center of picture: George M. Kerr, Stake High Councilman who was principal speaker. Sister Hunsaker reports: ''Our visiting teacher convention followed the procedures of a political convention to the exact detail. "Groups from each ward were assigned a seating section. Enthusiasm ran high. Each ward filled its allotted five minutes with cleverly and appropriately performed songs, marches, banner waving, and resolves. "'Thatcher-Penrose Ward won the award for attendance, and all of the sisters of this ward appear in the picture, along with a representative group of five members from each of the other nine wards in the stake. Light refreshments were served. "It was the largest attendance ever for a visiting teacher activity, and the compilation of resolutions was indeed a forging of stronger unity and service for all.'' Roosevelt Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Sing for Conference and Present Concert March 10, and 23, 1968 Second row, beginning at left: Elizabeth Oliphant, director; Verda Mae Mortensen, organist; Helen Larson, President, Roosevelt Stake Relief Society; Carrie Wills, Second Counselor. Sister Larson reports: "This group of Singing Mothers provided the music for stake quarterly conference on March 10. On March 23, they presented a spring concert. The theme for the concert was 'The Promise of America.' "Each of the eight wards presented numbers, then the combined choruses thrilled the audience with well-presented numbers. The script was written and narrated by Elaine Hullinger and Nedra Nickell. "We were especially pleased to have in attendance, Sister Evon W. Peterson, General Secretary of Relief Society, and her husband." 528 . <. ~ j, " ir, f; A *.. I \ i an <,, a Z a aor uv ne '* roto. - % 4 aes CALICO Rime NNO July 1968 Ricks College Stake (Idaho) Sewing Projects Ricks College Stake Relief Society presidency, left to right: Jessie Morrell, First Counselor; Lisle L. Andrus, President; Lu Seba Peterson, Second Counselor; Lorna Tibbits, homemaking leader. Sister Andrus reports: ''At our leadership meeting in March, Sister Helen Lamprecht, who is affiliated with the college, gave a short talk on basic sewing and offered some practical instruction. The members of the stake board each made a dress, like those worn in the picture. They are called three-armhole dresses, a type of wrap-around dress without a zipper, buttons, or snap closing, and they are very popular on campus. "Each of the ward leaders took what she had learned back to her Relief Society, and in one ward, twenty girls each completed an article of clothing." Kaysville Stake (Utah) Honors Visiting Teachers April 19, 1968 Kaysville Stake visiting teachers honored for long service, front row, left to right: Alice Green, sixty-three years; Myrtle Cottrell, fifty-three years; Annie Maxfield, fiftyyears; Lillie Blamires, forty-eight years. Back row, left to right: Crilla Scoffield, forty-three years; Mildred Horne, fortyone years; Alice Meiners, forty-five years; Julia Webster, forty-two years; Clara Colemere, forty-years; Gladys Rentmeister, forty-three years. Adelia H. Rushforth, President, Kaysville Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We honored the visiting teachers of our stake at a convention and luncheon. The theme for the event was 'Happiness is—,' worked around ideas, among others, of service, beauty, thrift, and creativity. Under direction of the stake homemaking leader, Bonnie Heywood, a lovely spring fashion show of home sewed articles was presented. "Highlighting the program was the tribute to the visiting teachers with long service. In addition to those pictured, thirty-eight other sisters were given recognition for more than twenty years service as visiting teachers. "Outstanding among these was Sister Alice Green, who has served as a visiting teacher for sixty-three consecutive years. At eighty-eight, she is the oldest visiting teacher in the stake, and is an inspiration to all." Hyrum Stake (Utah) Honors Visiting Teachers in Special Program January 25, 1968 Front row, left to right, Hyrum Stake Relief Society officers: Alda Walters, Homemaking Counselor; Alice Olsen, visiting teacher message leader; Berenece B. Darley, President; Angeline Smith, Secretary-Treasurer; Lylas Bailey, Education Counselor. The honored visiting teachers are standing in the second row. Sister Darley reports: "'Our 'Twilight Social' was a special event to honor all visiting teachers in the stake. Also, as guests, we had the officers and class leaders of each of the wards. A delicious meal was served to 350 guests. "Following the dinner, an inspirational program built around the theme Matthew 25:34-40, regarding the blessings of service, was presented. "Each ward selected their two outstanding visiting teachers (pictured), who were honored with a special gift. Wellsville Second Ward was presented with a special gift for having the greatest percentage attendance at the social. "A large majority of the sisters expressed that this was the most enjoyable and inspirational evening they had spent. We feel it was very successful in stimulating the visiting teaching program throughout the stake.'' 530 eae. OR > 'e. Bs = - iia Oe noo) ae) July 1968 Emery Stake (Utah), Huntington First Ward Relief Society Flower Display September 13, 1967 Ella Rowley, homemaking leader, Huntington First Ward Relief Society, pictured with flower arrangements created by members of the Huntington First Ward Relief Society. Opal L. Anderson, President, Emery Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The sisters of the Huntington First Ward spent their homemaking meeting learning how to arrange flowers artistically and attractively. Many beautiful arrangements were created.

The flowers were grown in the yards of the members. The arrangements were on display in the Relief Society room." Benson Stake (Utah) Relief Society Honors Past Presidents At Anniversary Celebration, March 15, 1968 Former Benson Stake Relief Society Presidents, left to right: Effie A. Greene (1925-1932); Lula Johnson (1938-1942); Leona McCarrey (1942-1952); Mabel H. Pond (1952-1957); Norma C. Bodily (1957-1962); Afton C. Lewis (1962-1967); Ruth C. White, current President; Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society. Sister White reports: ''It was a thrill for us to have President Spafford and Leone G. Layton of the General Board attend our anniversary celebration. We honored the past presidents of our stake Relief Society. "A special musical program, 'If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments,' was presented by forty-eight Singing Mothers. It was composed and directed by Thora B. Littledike, stake chorister. Accompanists were Myrtha K. Westover and RaNae W. Karren. Narrator was May Hill." Sevier Stake Relief Society (Utah), Richfield First Ward Honors Past Presidents at Anniversary Party March 12, 1968 Left to right, former and present presidents, Richfield First Ward Relief Society: Fonetta Barney, Dot Peterson, current President Helen Heinz, Rhoda Palmer, Rachel Dale, Mae Larsen, Pearl Hatch, Velda Barney. Madge G. Parks, President, Sevier Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Seven past presidents of the Richfield First Ward Relief Society were honored at the Relief Society anniversary celebration and birthday party. These sisters have served since 1942, with the exception of one past president who has moved away. "Activities such as this were carried out in most of the wards throughout the stake in commemoration of the birth of Relief Society 126 years ago." Modesto Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present ''Moments to Remember" March 19, 1968 Seated on stage, beginning fourteenth from left: Betty Zwahlen, pianist; Nina Mineni, organist; Catherine Openshaw; conductor. Leona Hansen, President, Modesto Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A special program commemorating the birth of Relief Society was presented by individual ward choruses and the combined stake chorus which sang fifteen selected ballads and patriotic songs. "The theme for the concert was 'Moments to Remember.' The music depicted an appreciation of Relief Society, the joys of family life from early childhood to grandparents, and love of the Nation. "The music was highlighted by tableaus, novelty numbers, and dance numbers. The script and narration by Myrna Clawson and Velma Alldredge reminded the audience 'Why a Singing Mother Sings,' which was the opening number. "Over 450 people enjoyed the music and the birthday cake and punch which were served as refreshments."