[Vol55 | July 1968 | Page 496 | General Feature | Editorial Preparing for the Later Years | Marianne C. Sharp]
[Editorial Preparing for the Later Years Marianne C. Sharp]

The book is a supplementary text for introductory courses in college geography, physical geography, and geomorphology. Karen Ann Ottesen of Burley, Idaho, is Coordinator of Research and Development for the Idaho Falls, Idaho, School District. She was an outstanding student in music at Brigham Young University, and received the James E. Talmage Medal for the College of Fine Arts and Communications. She was graduated from BYU in 1967. 495 Volume 55 July 1968 Number 7 = Belle S. Spafford, President ® Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor ® Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor w Evon W. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love 496 Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous Preparing for the Later Years ws All one's earlier life is preparation for later years, but how different is the contemplation of later years in the bloom of youth and the realization when the later years are reached! To the young it seems unthinkable that the problems of later life would test and try one, sometimes almost to the breaking point. When one has lived to later life, it would appear that one has acquired wisdom and overcome temptations for so long that the way would be easy. One finds, however, that each age presents problems, and that they do not grow less as the: years advance. Change is the essence of life at all ages today. No longer can one count on living out his life at the place of his birth. It does not even present itself as desirable to many people. Physical and environmental changes are inevitable for many families whose husbands are in industry, which makes a practice of moving its employees to different locations. When young, such changes are considered normal, as a means to progress and greater financial return. The selling and buying of homes (usually to a more desirable one) is a change which is welcomed as the family grows. Finally, the time is reached, however, which presents the other side of the coin, with an opposite phenomenon. Instead of an enlarging world of responsibility, one's responsibilities begin to shrink and continue to do so until all the children are married. A couple is left alone to face life together, then, as they started out many years before. A wife is then approaching, or is in her later years, and, in surveying her future, she may question whether or not she has made proper preparation for the years ahead. She also faces the possibility of being left alone and losing her dearest companion. A change of residence, then, is not a joyous occasion as in earlier years. It is usually a move from a large, beloved home, made dear by cherished memories of children and teen-age activities, to a smaller home or apartment. Just what is the preparation needed to fortify a woman in later years? Basically, it is the growth and strengthening of her testimony which will give her the needed support. Her knowledge and obedience to the gospel principles and acknowledging the hand of the Lord in all the vicissitudes that may come to her, are the main supports on which she will lean to sustain her. Continuing service in the Church will bring continuing satisfaction and joy, and although a woman may be far from her loved ones, Relief Society will offer her the love and understanding of many sisters in the gospel. She may fill lonely hours with good works. Where a temple is nearby, she may perform saving ordinances for her progenitors, but where there is no temple, still she may search out her ancestors. This is a rewarding work. If a woman, on the other hand, has frittered away her time, as her children grew older, on pleasures of no enduring worth, those pleasures will continue to be the avenues to which she will turn for enjoyment. She may, under these circumstances, however, miss the tranquil joy of contentment in the knowledge that she is about her Father's business. She has not prepared for the greatest return. The storms beat upon every woman as a part of the testing and probationary period of this life. Blessed and safe is she who has built her house on the rock of love of the Lord. He tells every woman ''If ye love me, keep my commandments." (John 14:15.) As a woman keeps his commandments, added strength comes to her. As she obeys his word ''Search the scriptures,"' she may be rescued from despondency and despair. She will rest in the love and peace the Savior promised the righteous in her later years. —M. C. S.