[Vol55 | July 1968 | Page 541 | Lesson | Homemaking Preparing for the Sabbath Day Celestia | J. Taylor]
"eternal life, which gift is the HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 1—Preparing for the Sabbath Day Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, October 1968 Southern Hemisphere: March 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show that in order to keep the Sabbath day holy, physical preparations should be made. INTRODUCTION What a happy, pleasant, holy day Sunday can be for the entire family when a feeling of order prevails, when things work smoothly because advance preparation and planning have eliminated most sources of frustration and irritation. Mothers have been heard to say that Sundays are the most difficult days, when actually they should be the most blessed and rewarding. How can we make them so? Consultation with several wonderful women who seem to have successfully solved this problem reveals the evidence that, as is usually the case, the busiest mothers are those who have most of the answers. To you mothers of small children who might feel that your problems are your own—as indeed they are—as well as to you who are the mothers of large families comprised of members of varying ages, the following discussion is directed in the hope that you may find some practical application to your own situation. HOW SHALL WE PREPARE? A sister, who is the mother of ten energetic and typically "nor- 

541 July 1968

 mal" children, gives us what she calls a "Basic recipe for a restful Sabbath day." I. Prepare the atmosphere in the home. A. Remember that "the Sabbath was made for man," and have the right attitude; make it a restful, happy day for yourself as well as for the family. B. Inspire your husband to play his role as patriarch of the family by supporting you in your plans and assignments for the family. C. Plan wisely. II. Organize yourself and your children to prepare for a day of rest. A. Organize meal planning, preparation, and cleanup. 1. For Sunday dinner plan an easy, simple meal to prepare. 2. Breakfast on Sunday morning is fruit juice and dry cereal. 3. Plan an easy evening snack, after sacrament meeting. 4. Each member is assigned a cleanup duty after each Sunday meal as well as on weekdays. B. Organize to have the house clean. 1. Each child is required to clean his own room thoroughly in addition to one other area either Friday or Saturday. 2. On Saturday evening the children are reminded to check their assigned areas. C. Organize the preparation of clothes and personal selves for Sunday. Another sister, the wife of a doctor and bishop and mother of eight lovely and exemplary children, says: I want only a minimum of work done on Sunday, and yet I cannot feel at peace or in harmony with the Lord if my house is disorderly. So we try to make a practice of having the house clean and neat before retiring on Saturday. Then all that I require of my children on Sunday morning is to see that their beds are made and their clothes picked up before they go to Sunday School. She also says: Well, suppose the house is clean and the clothes are ready, is the family prepared for the Sabbath? No, they are only prepared to be prepared. Now it is necessary to create the spirit and atmosphere of the Sabbath. I like to put on some of our Tabernacle Choir records or encourage some of my children to practice the hymns on the piano or even sing some of the familiar hymns myself. I was surprised one day as I was singing "Joseph Smith's First Prayer," to have my little three-year-old join in the singing and then beg me to sing it over and over again. A talented mother of ten equally lovely and talented children tells of her procedure in the physical preparation for Sunday as follows: I On Saturday A. Children bathed and hair washed B. Clothes checked by Mother C. Menu planned for Sunday ("I have never stayed home from Sunday School to fix a Sunday meal whether we have had guests or not.") D. House cleaned and set in order for Sunday 542 Lesson Department II. On Sunday A. Older children help the younger ones get dressed for Sunday School. B. Mother rises early to see Father and the boys off to priesthood meetings and the older girls to prayer meeting and to supervise others. C. The meat or entree course, if not prepared in advance,. Ls put on to cook and the kitchen tidied up after a light breakfast. D. After Sunday School certain children are assigned to set the table. ("We always Use our best lace or linen cloths and our best silverware and glasses on Sunday... We try to teach the children good manners and give them the opportunity to put them into practice.'') This sister sums UP her comments by saying: I would like my children to remember that Sunday was the happiest day of the week and that we all looked forward to its coming because we received food for our souls, renewed our covenants with our Father in heaven, remembered each other with more love and kindness, and received the spirit and peace of the Savior with reverence. To Discuss 1. What are my responsibilities as a mother in preparing for the Sabbath? 9. How can I adapt the suggestions ln the discussion to my own advantage? 3. Why is staying away from Sunday School and sacrament meeting no answer to the problem? CONCLUSION With the right attitude toward the Sabbath day and with the realization that careful and orderly physical preparation for it must be made, any mother, whether her family is large or small, can make the Sabbath a day of rewarding blessings for the entire family.

R 7 MOON MAGIC Without This silver moon No ebony shadows, No silhouettes—blackness flowers From light.