[Vol55 | July 1968 | Page 516 | General Feature | It's in the Bag | Shirley Thulin]
[It's in the Bag Shirley Thulin]
It's a This apron also serves as a tote bag. It gives you service wherever you go, from Aunt Millie's parlor to Relief Society, to the beach, and even II fishing with Father... That is, if you'd rather knit or sew than fish. When you sit for an hour or two the knitting or embroidering, you tie the apron bag around you, and your thread, thimble, yarn, and scissors stay neat and clean and handy. Ag Knitting yarn stays untangled in the big pocket (the bag) in your lap. If Shirley you are called to the phone, or to the Thulin kitchen to fix another sandwich, you quickly tuck your work in the bag and stand up without anything dropping to the floor, or without having to unwind yourself from your work. When you have finished your work, you merely untie the apron from your waist and tuck the strings and upper part of the apron into the pocket. Pull the drawstrings, and you are carrying a neat bag. No one would even suspect it is an apron. This apron bag can be made from _ sailcloth, denim, or corduroy, or a heavy silk. It is very nice if you line it, but it is not necessary. WHAT YOU NEED: One piece of floral or other print fabric 15 inches by 32 inches. This makes the bag. You can use two smaller pieces, 15 inches by 16 inches, but you will have a seam across the bottom of the bag. You will need some plain fabric the same size as mentioned above for lining the bag. Next, you will need a piece of print fabric 7 inches by 16 inches for the apron part. This does not need a lining. Now you need two apron strings about 3 inches wide and 22 inches long, and a strip for a band 3 inches wide and 13 inches long. To make small pockets for thread, thimble, and other sewing accessories, cut a strip of the printed fabric 8 inches by 16 inches long. You will need some bias tape of matching or contrasting color for drawstrings and for trim. TO MAKE: First, make the bag _——— by folding the 15 by 32-inch piece of material in half, right sides together and stitching up the sides (figure 1). Sew the lining the same way. Now put the lining and the bag wrong sides together and turn about a one-inch hem all around the top of the bag (figure 2). This makes the casing.. WRONG SIDE Swe eww eH ee em eae = = 516 It's In the Bag FIGURE 2 Make two buttonhole openings in the side seams at the top of the bag to run the drawstrings through. You will need two drawstrings, each about 42 inches long. One string goes in one buttonhole and all the way past the opposite hole, and back out the same place it began. The second string begins at the other buttonhole and is threaded the same way. Thus, the bag can be closed by pulling on both loops at the same time. Make the apron by first folding the 8-inch by 16-inch strip (wrong sides together) in half the long way. This gives you a double strip 4 inches by 16 inches. Pin this strip with the raw edge along one raw edge of the apron piece. Now pin along the 4-inch edges to the apron. Stitch this strip to the apron as you wish in order to make pockets. Bind the two side edges of the apron and pocket strip with bias tape (figure 3). Now sew the band and strings on the apron as you would for any apron. Join the apron to the bag by turning the bottom raw edge of the apron and pocket strip up about %-inch and stitching across one side of the top inside edges of the bag so as not to interfere with the drawstrings of the bag (figure 4). You may want to make several of these apron bags, for they will be the hit of any bridal shower, or a best seller at your bazaar. A LINING OF BAG FIGURE 4 517 if Spring Be Latee= maset tarmer Chapter 4 Maureen Taggart, a librarian, goes to Britain to do genealogical research and look over an estate in Scotland to which she ts joint heir. Just before leaving, she is attracted to Steve Madsen. On board the boat she befriends Diane Curran who also is a guest of the Taggarts. =» Maureen stood at her bedroom window and looked out upon a world still shrouded in fog. The vanquished November sun barely outlined the pear tree, only a dozen feet away. She turned away with only the slightest shrug. The state of the weather did not matter today. She was off on an adventure. Ahead was a day in London 518 with an attractive companion. Not only that, but she would get her first glimpse of the castle —after a fashion. No doubt Robert McPherson had put the best side forward. But, perhaps not. She had seen the work of artists who loved to paint ruins. Then, if there was time, she would ask him to take her to the National Art Museum. She had spent a couple of hours there when she was wandering about Trafalgar Square, but it would be ever so much more interesting, and certainly more instructive, to see it with an expert. She put on her red knit suit. It not only looked warm, it was warm. Her tweed coat, purchased in England for an English winter, would give her the additional protection she would need. As she watched Diane slip into her sweater she asked, "Is the Markham menage colder—or just plain cold?" "It isn't so bad, really.
