[Vol55 | July 1968 | Page 544 | Lesson | Social Relations Profiles Remembered | Alberta H. Christensen]
SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 1—Profiles Remembered Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life from the Writings and messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, October 1968 Southern Hemisphere: March 1969 OBJECTIVE: To point out gospel teachings that influenced the life of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and to indicate how his life and writings may influence other lives for good. INTRODUCTION Valuable as man's individual accomplishments may be for the immediate time and _ situation, not until they 'are viewed from the distance of years do they sometimes assume their proper perspective of importance. History also bears out the truth that the results of important action may persist through the years with continuing benefit. So it may be with the accomplishments of J. Reuben Clark, Jr., whose contributions were many and whose life spanned a productive period of ninety years. Here, native ability plus consistent personal effort and a protecting Providence, resulted in significant service to his Church, the Nation, and in the development of a noble character. Much has been written about President Clark. Articles, biog- 544 raphies, sketches of his appointments, newspaper _ editorials, and isolated comments are numerous. Some have come from the pens of individuals who knew him as a national and international figure. Some were written by General Authorities of the Church, others by newspaper correspondents or editors or friends. Some have come from loved ones to whom his intimate personal characteristics are a constant motivation and a priceless memory. Since the 1968-69 social relations lessons are based (as are the 1968-69 Melchizedek Priesthood lessons) upon his life and writings, it is appropriate that, in this introductory lesson, we meet President Clark personally. The various facets of his personality and his experiences -: President J. Reuben Clark, Jr constitute profiles of action that have inspired thousands and may yet motivate thousands more for good. This lesson, quoting much from others, deals with facets in the light of "Profiles Remembered." Space allows but a fraction of what has been said and written about his contributions, yet it is hoped that the robust vigor of his mind, the integrity of his faith, and the tender warmth of his personality will somehow shine through the factual account of his accomplishments. For a more chronological account of his life, see lesson 1 of the Melchizedek Priesthood lessons for 1968-69; or if available, The Improvement Era, August, 1951, Vol. 54, pp. 560- 563, 592: Article by John A. Widtsoe, "President J. Reuben Clark, Jr."; The Relief Society Magazine; June 1951, pp. 373- 377: Article by Henry D. Moyle, "President J. Reuben Clark, Jr." PROFILE OF YOUTH Grantsville, Tooele County, Utah, 1871, was typical of many small Mormon communities in the western part of the United States in the late nineteenth century. Their populations were a composite of convert immigrants from many European countries brought together by a common love for the gospel of Jesus Christ which they had so recently accepted. These pioneers knew the meaning of toil, for work was basic to survival. With persistent zeal they labored hours that the stubborn desert might be subdued and converted into productive 

545 July 1968

 farm and dairy acres. Life was simple, wholesome, and fundamentally religious, the devotional Sabbath climaxing the week where family prayers were offered daily. Thought and serious conversation often focused upon the eternal truths which answered their questions concerning the purposes of life and an after-life existence. Into such a community (Grantsville) and into a home where work and love and religion were a happy blend, Joshua Reuben Clark, Jr. Was_ born, September 1, 1871. "His parents, Joshua Reuben and Mary Louisa Woolley Clark, were pioneers of Tooele County..." (The Improvement Era: Editorial, May 1968, p. 416.) Young Reuben was always an avid reader. Evident, even in youth, his thirst for learning remained with him throughout life. Even in the pioneer home good reading material was available, although meager when compared to the voluminous library of his own home in later years. In his father's library "Reuben especially studied The Book of Mormon and took delight in looking at the large pictures in their family Bible. Many of Shakespeare's plays he read over and over, and also 'A History of Rome' and a biography of great men.... Any minute which Reuben could snatch from the many chores, inside and out of home, was usually devoted to reading." ("Born to Greatness," Marianne C. Sharp, The Children's Friend, September 1954, p. 361.) Following is a personal account which sheds a whimsical light upon his early teen-age interest 546 in books, at the same time it impresses one with the importance of early home atmosphere and training. I remember once when one of my brothers came to us, a good aunt came out to care for mother and the baby brother. She wanted me to do something. She hunted for me high and low, and at last finding me, she called to mother: "Here he is; reading again." I also remember that being the oldest, I had "to tend" the younger ones. We had an old fashioned cradle. Mother would put the babe in the cradle and set me to rocking it to sleep. This I did by lying across the foot of the cradle, legs on one side, head and shoulders on the other, and as I rocked the babe, I sang—and read. Sometimes the singing stopped in the interesting part and the babe would cry, then a call from mother brought me back to earth and we, the babe and I, started back and forth on our rocking again. This went on till the babe couldn't keep awake any longer, so went to sleep.... In my mature years I have come to understand how limited is my brain energy, how short ls my time, and how precious is my every moment. My rule now is—never read anything that is not worth remembering. I now know that all the wisdom of the past is for our use, and that the only place we can learn that wisdom which comes fom all that men have thought, and worked, and suffered, and achieved, is from good books; and wisdom is one of the most precious gifts that the Lord has to give. ("What I Read As a Boy," by J. Reuben Clark Jr., The Children's Friend, March 1943, p. 99.) Class Question How does this glimpse into President Clark's early reading and his mature reaction relate to the divine injunction, "seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith'? (D&C 88:118.) PROFILE OF ACCEPTANCE AND APPLICATION Willingness to work is a gospel teaching understood and con- sistently practiced by President Clark. In the Doctrine and Covenants we read: Thou shalt not be idle; for he that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the laborer. (D&C 42:42.) In his Grantsville home, young Reuben learned early that in work there is dignity and satisfaction as well as necessity. Being the eldest of the nine children, there were many chores and responsibilities within the home and upon the farm. At sixteen years of age he was in full charge of the family farm. He also herded cattle for his uncle, Samuel Woolley, driving them to the summer range every spring and back to the winter range every fall. He knew, therefore, the language and hardships of the cowboy, and what it meant to stay in the saddle all day and all night, and to go without rest or sleep for twenty-four hours at a time. (Bryant S. Hinckley: The Relief Society Magazine, April 1949, p. 252.) Class Involvement 1. Discuss briefly the value of establishing the principle and habit of work in youth, rather than waiting until later years. 2. Why do you believe that today's children, having less work to do, are apt to be more restless, even delinquent? President' Clark not only learned to work in youth but he accepted this early training with a positive attitude. He loved to work. As we follow him through a long and productive life we observe that no amount of labor seemed too much nor too arduous for the objectives he wished to Lesson Department achieve. One of his objectives was to obtain an education and this he did, overcoming many obstacles in order to do so. At nineteen he left Grantsville and, going to Salt Lake City, he entered the Latter-day Saints University and, later, graduated from the University of Utah. Although the allowance was small, an assistantship at the Deseret Museum under Dr. James E. Talmage helped him financially. Here alertness of mind and diligent effort made him a leader in student affairs. The same mental application and diligence brought recognition and the coveted degree in law from Columbia University in 1906. In words of guidance given to graduating students in a commencement address at the Brigham Young University in 1949, we see President Clark's mature thinking on the importance of work. Work is the nearest substitute for genius, and genius without work is barren. If more people had to work for a living, instead of talking for it, the world would be better off. That President Clark's formula for success was hard work, was well known by friend and diplomat. When he was appointed United States Ambassador to Mexico, in 1930, one newspaper printed the following: Mr. Clark stands among the few diplomats of the first order that the West has produced. It is somewhat unfair to Ambassador Clark, however, to say that the West produced him. As a matter of fact, J. Reuben Clark, the Ambassador, is the product of J. Reuben Clark, the student, the investigator, the worker and the faithful servant of the government. 

547 July 1968

 There is no finer example... In the whole history of the foreign service. Mr. Clark is responsible for his own success... ("President J. Reuben Clark, Jr...." Henry D. Moyle, The Relief Society Magazine, June 1951, p. 374.) It is obvious that President Clark did not expect to reap a harvest of success without planting the seed of desire and then cultivating that seed through diligent effort. Class Involvement 1. How may his example apply to Latter-day Saint women who are successful (a) in their homes; (b) in Church or civic assignments? 2. How may we help our children to see the need for and benefit of work? PROFILE OF PERSONAL LIFE His family remembers President Clark as a husband and father who was devotion itself. He had a fierce love and pride in his children. He guarded them with every fiber of his being, and was their severest but at the same time loving critic. He demanded the best from them; pointing out errors in their thinking with a_ kindly bluntness that left no doubt as to his meaning. His approval was vital to them, and this was one of the great motivating factors for good in their lives. He lavished upon them what material comforts he could, but his foremost concern was the condition of their souls and to this he brought his keenest effort. To them he was a pillar of power and strength, and the center of their home which revolved around and honored him as the patriarch of his family. He delighted in any of their accomplishments and was si- 548 lently sympathetic with their failures. One of the most outstanding characteristics of his life was his deep respect and reverence for womanhood. His wife, whom he cherished with humble, unwavering love, and his daughters were tenderly sheltered and guarded by him with every force at his command. He stood almost in awe of mother-love nurtured by the deep love and esteem, almost reverence, which he felt for his own beloved mother, often declaring mother-love to be more like the love God feels for his children than any other. He was endowed with a keen sense of humor, and his spirit of acute discernment gave him uncanny insight into the lives of his three daughters, Louise, Marianne, and Luacine, and son Reuben III. He never minced words, but his children knew that at the base of every reprimand was unquestioned love and devotion to them. To his family he personified the righteous, God-fearing, obedient child of the new and everlasting covenant that he wanted them to become. PROFILE OF INFLUENCE ON THE INTERNATIONAL SCENE In order to evaluate the influence of President Clark in the fleld of human relations on the international scene, we must review, very briefly, a few of his many appointments to governmental positions. After receiving a degree in law from Columbia University, New York City, where he was a distinguished student and editor of the legal department of the Columbia Law Review, he was appointed assistant solicitor of the United States Department of State under Secretary Elihu Root. In 1910, after four distinguished years of service, he became solicitor, which is the chief legal officer of the State Department. Later, as Under Secretary of State, he "moved more and more into the field of international law, in which he became a foremost authority and is so recognized today." (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, Lesson 1.) "In 1930 he was appointed United States Ambassador to Mexico. During his threeyear service he helped to settle many an international controversy, such as the oil rights of foreigners in Mexico, the correct boundary lines between Mexico and the United States... The division of the waters of the Rio Grande. Best of all, Mexico and the United States worked together as friends during President Clark's ambassadorship." ([bid.) What personal qualities contributed' to President Clark's diplomatic success? From Mr. Howland Cox, staff writer for the Christian Science Monitor, we quote: (Christian Science Monitor, September 1, 1931.) The Ambassador's seemingly unfailing knack of winning and holding friends stands him in good stead. Perhaps it is his willingness to listen to the "other fellow's side of the story" that endears him to the people of that southern republic. Perhaps it is his entirely sincere desire to place all cases fairly before his nation, and before the nation to which he is an accredited representative.... That is why Mexico trusts him. And why Mexico is willing to work with him. And why Mexico likes him. Lesson Department The article continues: To really know the man one must meet him in his home. He has a wife and a daughter, Luacine. [Other family members were not in Mexico at this time.] See them and it is not difficult to understand why the Ambassador looks upon the world through clear, friendly eyes. They are a versatile group. The Ambassador with his hobby of photography; Mrs. Clark with her work among the needy of Mexico City, and the daughter with her music. To hear them discuss their "tasks of the moment"... Is to wonder how anyone at all can remain idle. Class Involvement Questions 1. Why do you think empathy is important in international affairs as well as in personal relationships? 2. What other personal qualities gave Ambassador Clark the "knack of winning and holding friends''? 3. How may these qualities apply to you, to me, in all neighborhood problem situations? PROFILE OF CHURCH SERVICE The profile of Church service is considered last in this lesson because appointment to membership in the First Presidency of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and to apostleship came in the richly mature years of President Clark's life, after he had won distinction in the world of legal and diplomatic affairs. His service to the Church, however, actually began in Grantsville, as a boy. In 1925 he was appointed to the General Board of the YMMIA. Very many of President Clark's mature years, however, were lived away from the organized units of the Church. He was a consistent Latter-day Saint, and, at all times, lived in strict 

549 July 1968

 harmony with the standards of gospel teachings.... His work while in Washington was one of the finest examples of missionary work ever done, for he preached Mormonism in every act of his life.. (Editorial, The Improvement Era, May 1933.) In 1933, at the conclusion of his ambassadorship to Mexico, he was sustained as Second Counselor to President Heber J. Grant, whom he served for twelve years. He was ordained an apostle in 1934. Until his death October 6, 1961, he was a member of the First Presidency, serving also under President George Albert Smith and President David O. McKay. Elder Albert E. Bowen, an associate in the Council of the Twelve, characterized President Clark thus: The personal endowment and qualities which have made possible his varied and distinguished achievements are perhaps three, with their corollaries: First: A vigorous and discriminating intellect. His is the rare power of penetrating through all confusing, superficial envelopments to the root and marrow of a confronting problem. Second: A prodigious power of work— a constitution which seems able to respond to any draft that may be made upon it. Work is his vocation and his avocation, his pursuit and his pastime. Third: An uncompromising, undeviating honesty—intellectual and moral honesty. "Face the Facts," is a characteristic expression of his. He spends no time in working upon schemes of evasion.... (The Relief Society Magazine, June 1951, p. 374.) To the member of the Church, perhaps the most important characteristic was the quality of > ws 550 his faith and humility, which radiated from his every conference address. In 1946 an editorial in the Deseret News states:... Those who know President Clark intimately know that he is guided and motivated in his Church leadership by as profound and simple a faith as is possessed by any man in the Church. The Standard Works of the Church are his guide, and he accepts without question the word of the Lord as contained therein. The experiences of Joseph Smith are as real to him as any of his own. He has never doubted the divine mission of the Savior, and has spent a great part of his life in making a study of the life and works of the Master while he was upon earth.... He does not doubt that God lives and that he hears and answers the prayers of the righteous.... (Church News, August 31, 1946.) SUMMARY Frequently men may excel in one area of endeavor or in one aspect of character, their accomplishments winning the recognition of men. President Clark was a balanced, well-rounded man. In him no facet of the good life was undeveloped. He was the student, friend, father, counselor, man of productive action, and one of deep religious faith. Through memory and through his published writings the profile of his clear thinking, articulate speech, his faith and his steadfast adherence to principle, will continue to inspire and motivate for good. For Home-doing Examine your own life in terms of the profiles remembered of President Clark and decide which you may wish to emulate in your own life.

CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 1—The Excitement of Discovery Dr. Bruce B. Clark Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 4 The World Around Us, Section One By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas "One truth discovered is a link with the immortal." —William Hazlitt Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, October 1968 Southern Hemisphere: March 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show that the world in which a woman serves is limited by the extent of her desire to discover. Recommendations for musical selections for lesson 1 of the cultural refinement course, year 1968-1969: MUSIC 16th-Century Instrumental Suite Two Selections from Ancient Dances and Airs for Lute by Ottorino Respighi (Italian, 1879-1936) Commentary on musical selections by Clawson Cannon, Assistant Dean of College of Fine Arts, Brigham Young University The purpose in choosing these selections is twofold: First, the music chosen is not a part of the standard repertory, indeed, is not known at all but to the few enthusiasts for old and new music. These lovely pieces should help the sisters to realize how many beautiful works of music are awaiting their discovery. Second, in the 16th-century suite, instruments are employed that are not used today; in the "Ancient Dances and Airs," well-known instruments are used in new and colorful ways. Thus, these selections should encourage the sisters to be more aware of individual sounds and colors that are a part of the musical fabric. The selections recommended should allow the Relief Society sisters the opportunity to experience the excitement of discovering new aspects of music.