Relief Society workers. She encouraged the women to go forward aid give the best service at their hands in the Relief Society cause. Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannor spoke of the great growth of the Relief Society from a membership of eighteen to 45,296. She felt that the eighteen original members would be more than over-joyed if they could see the work of today in all these various branches. She stated that the first and foremost work in the Relief Society is the charity work, and this should be constantly before us. Other things have been introduced which are helpful and important, but the society was organized especially for charity work, and this should never be lost sight of. Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas expressed appreciation that she. is identified with the great Relief Society work. The work is marvelous and is growing daily. Mrs. Thomas called attention to the fact that we must not forget the first work of the Relief Society, which is the charity work. This was the foundation upon which the society was organized, and it should receive first attention. She prayed that the blessings of the Lord would be with the organization constantly. Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley felt that this is the most successful and interesting conference yet held. She expressed thanks and appreciation to her heavenly Father for the work of the great organization, and commended her hearers for the part they are playing in the Relief Society cause. Mrs. Annie Wells Cannot spoke of leadership. She stated that the true leader is one who is able to get others to work, in a given cause. She was fourteen years old when she first joined the Relief Society, and her interest in the work has grown with the years. For many reasons, the Relief Society is the greatest of women's organizations, and we should all strive constantly to keep up the standards which have been maintained throughout the seventy-eight years of its existence. Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon suggested that Relief Society women eliminate all of those things which are detrimental to the highest standard of character. Unjust criticism and fault-finding are things which should be overcome. She recommended to her hearers that they be charitable in word and deed and while they should not condone sin, they should GENERAL CONFERENCE 711 be tolerant of the shortcomings of others. Before criticizing others, we should survey our own lives and see if we have not failings too. President Emmeline B, Wells closed the session with her testimony and with an exhortation for Relief Society women to be faithful and true to the ideals of the founders of the organization and of the Church. She pronounced blessings upon the heads of all those present PUBLIC SESSION. Thursday morning the Assembly hall was crowded with the largest assembly held at conference time in the history of the Relief Society. President Emmeline B. Wells opened the meeting, expressing her pleasure with the privilege of meeting with her sisters m general conference. She felt that love grew in her heart with the passing years, and although she had not expected to live to be very old, her life had been preserved and she wanted to use her time to build up righteousness. She referred to her baptism in early girlhood, and mentioned the cripple girl who had laid aside her crutches forever at the water's edge. She referred in loving terms to the boyhood and later service of President Joseph F. Smith, and now to the labors and ministry of President Heber J. Grant. Mrs. Emily S. Richards delivered a stirring address on the principle of loyalty. She declared that loyalty was a principle and not a sentiment. She emphasized the fact that loyalty kills criticism and builds up society and social health in every walk of life. She urged the sisters to cultivate loyalty to each other, to the leaders of the Church, to the Relief Society work, and to the officers and leaders of our government. Mrs. Elizabeth Wilcox gave an interesting and comprehensive talk on Americanization. She referred to the pride felt by the descendants of the Utah pioneers in their American birth and parentage, but added that many splendid contributions to national life had been given by the immigration which has poured onto American shores, some of it reaching to Utah's valleys. She referred in complimentary terms to our gifted musicians, Willard Weihe, John J. McClelland, and Anthony C. Lund, who were all products of European parentage. Thie speaker emphasized the factors which go to make American citizens: our free schools, free libraries and social organizations. The first generation of Americans are being looked after today all over the United States as never before, and efforts are being made to perfect this scheme 
 of Americanization for all who*come to our beloved country. Sister Elizabeth C. McCune spoke of home industry, and referred to the teachings of Brigham Young on the industrial life of the people. She related instances of her own girlhood, of the weaving and spinning activities of the pioneer women, and made humorous mention of the hat trimmings collected from the tail feathers of the largest rooster in Nephi. She advocated the continuance of the industrial policy of the pioneers wherever practicable. Mrs. Amy B. Lyman delivered a scholarly and exhaustive talk on social service. She noted the fact in her introductory remarks that social service has always marked the Relief Society work since its beginning. She said that there were two types of workers;  one was the social reformer who dealt with group life, and the other was the individual who performed restricted labor with other individuals, and which laborer is now called a "case worker." Likewise, there were two phases of social service;  one was the corrective phase and the other the preventive. Naturally, the last was far more important than the first. Like physicians in the modern treatment of disease, who spend more time in preventing illness than in curing disease, so are social workers applying more thought and care to the preventive measures than to the corrective ones in the treatment of social disorders. The speaker referred to the summer convention held in Provo, and emphasized the necessity for supervising the playtime and leisure hours of our young people especially. Ward houses have always been community centers, but this phase of our group life is to be enlarged upon in the future, if the plans of the social advisory committee are carried out. She referred to the young ladies Home at the Bee Hive, which is for taking care of homeless girl workers in the city, and rejoiced in the establishment of a future Day Nursery by the primary association. In the improvement of our Relief Society social work, the speaker referred to the necessity of securing definite help in all our endeavors, and pointed out that we should strive to give our relief, not in the spirit of giving alms, but with the intention of building up family Life. She urged the right of every human being to live a normal life, and to discover the causes for distress and trouble before administering relief. In closing, this speaker remarked: "T think that our sympathy for those in distress is intensified when we realize that only one-fourth of the causes of poverty are due to misconduct, and three-fourths are due to misfortune, over which people have no control. None of us are immune from coming to a condition of want. The great GENERAL CONFERENCE 713 est single cause of poverty is sickness. The next is lack of employment, and the wrong kind of employment;  the next cause is old age. "Let us be willing to give service to humanity and let us be willing to study, and prepare ourselves that our service may be intelligent and effective." The Thursday afternoon session, after the regular opening exercises, was devoted to addresses by our general board members. Counsellor Clarissa Smith Williams was the first speaker. She referred in her own gifted, sympathetic manner to the fact the gospel includes possibilities for the use of every gift and the exercise of all our best faculties. She alluded to the presence of our honored president, Emmeline B. Wells, and then spoke upon the saving quality of obedience to law. The love of the gospel will bring love for our leaders and reverence for them and for each other. Loyalty to our government will follow as a natural corollary. The unity of the people will promote the advance of every right principle in human life. The speaker deplored family criticism, as it engendered in the minds of the young irreverence and degeneration of social character. She referred to the sacredness of our houses of worship, and urged the Relief Society women to be exemplars of conduct in all our sacred gatherings. Whispering and visiting should not be indulged in. especially by those who sit upon the stand in meetings. She spoke in touching words of the solemnity of conduct and feeling which should characterize our deportment in the house of the Lord. She referred to her own entrance into the Logan temple, and the sacred joy with which she greeted her beloved uncle, Joseph F. Smith, who was there on that occasion. She also referred in affectionate terms to her own association with President Heber T. Grant, for they had been playmates as children, and associate? in their later life, yet today she always approaches him with the reverence which his position now makes obligatory upon her. She invited her sisters to manifest that same affection and respect for our stake presidents, our bishops, our Relief Society officers, and for our neighbors and friends, for in this way we should cultivate the spirit of love, which would build up a wall about us against the entrance of sin and evil. She closed with the hope that the Relief Society women would be exemplary in all their conduct. Counsellor Julina L. Smith spoke with vigor and wisdom on the subject of temple marriages and the necessity of proper conduct and clothing. She referred to her own youth and to her endeavor to live up to the principles of retrenchment 
 taught by President Brigham Young, and Sister Eliza R. Snow. When she entered the Endowment House as a worker in that sacred temporary house of the Lord, she had endeavored to follow the counsels of those over her. She had been associated with Relief Society leaders from that day to this, and she referred in loving words to President Emmeline B. Wells as one of those early leaders. She deplored the conduct of those young women who went into the temple with the avowed intention of doing what they pleased when they came out. The speaker referred to the growing evil of "undress" amongst our young society women, and wondered what those who had been in the temple thought of themselves when breaking their covenants as they had to do in such undressed condition. She read from section 132 in the Doctrine and Covenants on the eternity of the marriage covenant, and then emphasized not the leaving own blessings, need her for work each person to secure to be done her by others who may follow after. She referred to the sacredness of the garments and that they were a shield and protection to those who honored them and wore them rightly. She closed with the hope that all would understand and better appreciate these wonderful blessings which we receive in the house of the Lord. The general treasurer, Mrs. Emma spoke about the beautiful gathering in the Assembly hall, which was the largest ever known In our conference. She had been delighted with all of the meetings of the conference, and was especially Interested in charity work. She hoped we would be willing to give our best attention to the new Ideas that we are receiving in the social service study. She wanted us to give the world receive the best best that lay in She in return. us and in that felt that the way best we would in women the world are the Relief Society women. She asked the blessing of the Lord upon them. Sister Sarah McLelland repeated the key word of the general conference: "Oh, ye that embark In the service of the Lord, see to it that ye serve Him with your might, mind, and strength, that ye may stand before Him blameless in the latter days." She said that work In the Relief Society had increased her own testimony, and that the day was past when women lived just for their own families and their own individual life. She felt the women were willing to take up a missionary labor with each other, and with their neighbors. Not gifts nor talents will recommend us to our heavenly Father, but the use that we can make of what is entrusted to our care, both spiritually and temporally. She urged the GENERAL CONFERENCE 716 sisters to be sympathetic with young people and to reach out for those who are tempted and who do not possess strength to resist temptation. She wanted the older sisters to accept guardianship for other women's sons and daughters in the same tender spirit in which they ministered to their own. President Emmeline B. Wells closed with affectionate reminiscences of her own past life and with words of blessing and cheer to the assembled multitude of sisters Relief Society Workers Isabella E. King. We're a band of noble sisters, United heart and hand, To battle with all evil And keep the Lord's command. Then, love ye one another And words of peace impart, And by our love and kindness Bind up the broken heart. Visit the afflicted, And give them help and cheer, And by our acts convince them They are our sisters dear. Clothe and feed the needy, Was our Savior's word. Letting not a murmur In our ranks be heard. Then let us work like bees, In the hive of desert. Dispersing all around us The welcome gifts we get. All hail! Ye noble mothers. Be faithful to your charge With charity unceasing;  — Ye are working for the Lord.