[Vol53 | October 1966 | Page 747 | Poetry | My Heart Would Break Maude | O. Cook]
MY HEART WOULD BREAK Maude O. Cook I stand beside an open door. Through it I freely pass To breathe the fragrant air of spring, To walk on velvet grass. Surrounding me on every side Are paths that mark the way To meadows, hills, or far-off lands Where I! May choose to stray. If this same door were locked and barred, Another held the key, And four bare walls made up my world— Were all that I could see— Remembering the orchard-blooms, The moonlight on the lake, The hillside rich with autumn-glow— I fear my heart would break. 747 The firelight is warm and golden As I sit here alone; But each room is empty, silent Until you come. Then when I! Hear your whistle, And your footstep at the door, This place becomes alive, Happy, and secure. For by your very presence At evening when you come, The empty quiet of each room Becomes the peace of home. OCTOBER 1966 CINNAMON BISCUITS Place one package prepared biscuits. In greased pan. Put a dab of butter or margarine on top of each. Cover biscuits with brown sugar, and sprinkle cinnamon over this. Bake as directed on package. STRING BEANS WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE 1 can French sliced green beans 14 can mushroom soup Heat beans in saucepan. When liquid has boiled for a few seconds, drain it off and add undiluted mushroom soup. Allow this to begin bubbling, stir, and serve. If you have time on Saturday to sliver a few almonds, they make a delightful addition to this. You may use cream of vegetable or cream of celery soup, for a change, and fresh broccoli is also delicious treated in this manner. The cake may be a package cake, or your own recipe, and would, of course, be prepared on Saturday. MENU 2 baked chicken with rice frozen peas gelatine salad biscuits ice cream and cookies milk or postum BAKED CHICKEN WITH RICE 2 c. Uncooked rice 1 soup can water 1 c. Cream of mushroom soup 1 pkg. Dehydrated onion soup 1 c. Chicken gumbo soup two 21% Ib. Or a 3 Ib. Frying chicken, cut up Mix rice (regular long-grain, not minute or precooked rice), the two cans of undiluted soup, and can of water in greased 13" by 9"' baking dish. Sprinkle with about 14 of the onion soup. Place chicken pieces on top, skin side down. Don't remove the skin, or the rice will be too dry, but if you push it back on the side that is turned up, the chicken will absorb more of the flavor of the soup. Sprinkle the rest of the onion soup on the chicken making sure that each piece is covered with the soup. Reserve the backs and necks for making soup on Monday. Cover the entire dish with aluminum foil, folded around the edges to prevent steam from escaping. Bake in 325 degree oven for two hours. The salad in this menu is the same as in the first. The other items are purchased already prepared, or cooked according to directions on the package. MENU 3 beef pot roast brown gravy mashed potatoes tomato aspic three-bean salad biscuits milk or postum frozen strawberry torte The tomato aspic, three-bean salad, and dessert will all be prepared on Saturday. TOMATO ASPIC 2 envelopes unflavored gelatine 1 tbsp. Vinegar 14 c. Boiling water 1 tbsp. Sugar 14, c. Cold water 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 1 can tomato juice (optional) 1 can tomato soup 1 can salad vegetables 1 small clove garlic 2 stalks celery 1% tsp. Chili powder 3 green onions 14, cucumber radishes, avocado, sliced bell pepper, if desired 


 MASHED POTATOES Use dehydrated potatoes, and prepare according to instructions on package. There is not more than a minute's work involved, and in some areas the prepared potatoes are less expensive than fresh ones. They require very little storage space, and there is not. Danger of spoilage. Serve with butter or the gravy from the meat. The biscuits are again the package biscuits, used as they come from the package. LET'S MAKE STRAWBERRY JAM! Ida A. Isaacson 1 qt. Strawberries, hulled, washed, and drained Pour scalding water over strawberries, let stand 3 minutes. Drain. Add 1 cup sugar to berries, bring to a boil, and boil ten minutes by the clock