[Vol53 | October 1966 | Page 759 | Poetry | A Lullaby Christie | Lund Coles]
A LULLABY Christie Lund Coles What, you ask, is a lullaby? Listen, and I will endeavor to tell; It is a gentle, yet powerful song, And only mothers truly know it well. It is soft darkness rising to the sky, Lighting a star or two along the way; It is a poem whispered by the wind, Which only lips of love can learn to say. It is a touch, a look, perhaps, Shuttering the room when the night is wild; It is a hushed, sweet sort of singing that Is only comprehended by a child. 759 Our Children Earn, Their Own @ A neighbor was visiting me one afternoon when Tim, our sixyear-old, came rushing home from school, jerked off his jacket and tossed it over a chair. Noticing his actions, I slowly walked over to the kitchen cabinet, picked up a small glass jar and proceeded to remove the lid. "Please, Mother! Don't take out a button," pleaded Tim, and, quickly grabbing his jacket, added, "I'll hang it up right away!—I'm sorry." With wrinkled brow, his big 760 brown eyes scanned my movements as I hesitated, for I had momentarily forgotten whether it was Tim or Johnnie whom I had warned for the last time. As if sensing my doubtful thoughts, Tim reminded me, "It was Johnnie, Mamma, that threw his jacket down yesterday." "So it was," I said, and as I screwed the lid back onto the jar I reminded Tim that this was his last warning. He scampered off to his room. The kitchen door swung open a second time, and in bounded eight-year-old Johnnie with a beaming smile. 'Hi, Mom," he sang, and seeing Mrs. Austin, he asked, "Are Terry and Judy here?" "They are playing in the den," she informed him. He had taken his jacket off and was about to sling it when he looked at me guiltily and said, "Oh! — Oh! I almost forgot, Mom," then dashing toward his room, lilted, 'but I'm sure glad —I didn't." Mrs. Austin raised her eyebrows and cocked her head. She came over to inspect the glass jars lined up on the kitchen cabinet. There were two small jars —one labeled 'Tim,' the other "Johnnie'—and one larger jar labeled "'Mr. Allowance," and in small print below his name it read, "I help you earn your allowance."' Each small jar had a slot in the lid, and each jar contained several white buttons. Mr. Allowance's jar held many more buttons—all white, except for a few black ones. Just then Tim reentered the room and asked, ''Mom, is it O. K. If, after we get our clothes changed, we play with Terry and Judy until they go home, and then do our chores later?" Since there was no reason why the chores couldn't wait, I agreed to make an exception and let the boys play before they did their daily tasks. I Being extremely interested in what had taken place, Mrs. Austin asked, ''Would you mind explaining your system of your children earning their allowances? It seems very effective." And so I related the following story to her: OUR CHILDREN EARN THEIR ALLOWANCES Feeling as we did (that all through life one has to work to receive compensation) Joe and I decided we would teach our children that money. Was not handed out gratis. Tim was three and Johnnie five when we started using the button-jars as a means for them to earn their allowances. Beginning each week, we placed ten white buttons into each jar. Each child was assigned chores, such as, picking up and putting away his toys; hanging his clothes on hooks (which were — installed within his reach); - emptying waste paper baskets, and other small duties. When either child did not do his job satisfactorily, he was given fair warning, so he knew that when it happened a second time, a button would be extracted from his jar. If a chore was neglected entirely, more buttons were taken out. Whenever a child was naughty, or disobeyed, he would lose a button, or buttons, depending upon the nature of the act. All buttons taken from the children's jars were placed back into Mr. Allowance's jar which, in the beginning, contained only white buttons. THE children were disappointed when they lost buttons, for at the end of the week, the buttons we