[Vol53 | October 1966 | Page 111 | Poetry | A Box of Days Dorothy | O. Rea]
[A Box of Days Dorothy O. Rea]

PASS In today's world, the accent is on youth. Everyone wants to look young, feel young, and be young. No one seems to prefer old age. Indeed, vast sums of money are expended each year for products which will hopefully restore the youthful look. Well might we ask ourselves, "Is the search for youth new to our day, our generation?" We need but to thumb the pages of history to find our answer. Centuries ago in that great age of exploration, expeditions were outfitted and ships containing confident and adventurous crews set sail upon uncharted seas in search of a literal "fountain of youth." The legend of the day rumored that somewhere in the great beyond there was a magical fountain containing the purest of water. All one had to do to regain the vibrancy of youth and to perpetuate this vigor was to drink deeply of the flowing waters from this fountain. 724 Elder Thomas S. Monson of The Council of the Twelve + Ponce de Leon, who sailed wi Columbus, made _— subseque voyages of exploration in! Trust of the legend that thi youthful elixir could be fou somewhere among the Bahar Islands. His efforts, like those o many others, yielded no such discovery. For, in the divine p of our God, we enter mortal existence and taste of youth but once. Although there is no "fountain of youth" which we may wisely seek, there is another fountain containing more precious water, even the waters of eternal life. Such is the "fountain of truth." The poet captured the real significance of the search for truth when he wrote these immortal lines: Oh say, what is truth? 'Tis the brightest prize To which mortals or Gods can aspire; Go search in the depths where it glittering lies Or ascend in pursuit to the loftiest skies. *Tis an aim for the noblest desire. Then say, what is truth? 'Tis the last and the first, For the limits of time it steps o'er. Though the heavens depart and the earth's fountains burst, Truth, the sum of existence, will weather the worst, Eternal, unchanged, evermore. ("Oh say, What Is Truth?" from Hymns, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, page 143.) In a revelation given through the Prophet Joseph Smith at Kirtland, Ohio, in May of 1933, the Lord declared: truth is knowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come. The spirit of truth is of God. He [Jesus] received a fulness of truth... And no man receiveth a fulness unless he keepeth his commandments. He that keepeth his commandments receiveth truth and light, until he is glorified in truth and knoweth all things (D&C 93:24, 26- 28). No need for you or me in this enlightened age, when the fulness of the gospel has been restored, to sail uncharted seas or travel unmarked roads in search of the "fountain of truth." For a loving Heavenly Father has plotted our course and provided an unfailing map — obedience. His revealed word vividly describes the blessings which obedience brings and the inevitable heartache and despair that accompany the traveler who detours along the forbi

dden pathways of sin and error. To a generation steeped in the tradition of animal sacrifice, Samuel boldly declared: "... To obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams" (I Samuel 15:22).