[Vol3 | May 1916 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]

Lesson VI. Home Economics. Fourth Week in June. THE LATTER-DAY SAINT HOME. THE ORGANIZATION OF HOUSEWORK. I Woman's Work in the Home. 1. Results to be obtained. a. Physical activities. b. Activities for higher.life. 2. The ideal housekeeper. a. Homemaker vs. housekeeper. 3. Hygiene of housework. II. The Day's Work. 1. System vs. haphazard effort. 2. Co-operation between the work of man and woman. 3. The maker and master of the system. 4. A working schedule of housework. a. The schedule. III. Children and Housework. 1. Train while young. a. Boy as well as girl. IV. The Rest Hour. 1. The physiology of rest. 2. The method. Roll callOne way to save work. : Gem: Proverbs 31:10-31 read: "She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. Ller children arise up and call her blessed, her husband also, and he ])raiseth her." /. Woman's Work in the Home. Sisters, why do you work? For what purpose do you sjiend so lavishly the only thing you really own on earth — your time and your energy? 1. The results to be obtained. The general purpose of housework may be expressed thus To give joy and health and: happiness to your loved ones and thus to attain it yourself to make through your efiforts an ideal home in every sense of the term. a. The physical needs of the home are those which con- tribute to the health and comfort of its inmates and include nutri- . tion, light, heat, cleanHness, and convenience. The activities which make possible these conditions are many and varied, and include cooking, sewing, sweeping, dusting, bed-making, wash- ing, ironing, nursing, and countless other processes which come in the daily round of every woman's experience. b. The higher life of man. In addition to the foregoing, the housekeeper must so order her home work that the so-called higher needs of her family may be met. She must inspire in them a desire for an education to assume their share of civic or; neighborhood improvement; to enjoy and extend true hospitality; to obtain aesthetic enjoyment in the arts, music, literature; and last, and most important, to encourage their moral and spiritual growth. 2. The perfect housekeeper. All of these requirements are rather a large order to give any one weak mortal, and yet that is what is given to every woman who faces life as a mother or home-maker. Of course, all women do not accomplish it equally well; all desire to do so, and strive to improve. a. Home-maker vs. housekeeper.Most women desire to be perfect home-makers which means so much more than to be a so-called "perfect housekeeper." The former is she who sees that all the functions of her life as mother are fulfilled. She recognizes the great value of a clean, orderly home and so orders her time that she has strength to do that properly, and also enough left to instill into her family a love of the nobler things in life. The latter may be a very disagreeable person to live with, even though the inside and outside of the house be scrubbed to a shining cleanliness and the abhorred speck of dust may never find an abiding place. The really perfect housekeeper is she who understands that the house is for comfort and not discomfort, that the home is made for the husband and children and not the family for the home. She will understand that it is better to have an untidy house for a part of the day, if that is the means to make Sonny and his friends feel that home is the very best place on earth in which to spend an afternoon or evening. The perfect housekeeper is she who, when she finds that she cannot do all that she would like to do, is content to let some work go undone, if by so doing she may obtain something more valuable and more desirable. She is a master of proportions, and chooses those things in her daily life w"hich have the most lasting value. She studies and prays to be able to discriminate amongst all the desirable things of life, those things which are the essential and which are the non-essential. 3. The hygiene of housework. This subject must not be passed without emphasizing the benefits of housework. No gym- nasium was ever equipped that oflFers the same array of health- giving exercise that the ordinary home does. If women would only dress comfortably and sensibly, and use wisdom in the per- formance of all tasks, working in properly ventilated homes, no healthier work could be found on earth than housework. Discuss. //. The Day's Work. In order that one may have time to be home-maker as well as housekeeper, it is necessary to make use of every moment wisely and to plan the day's work so carefully that the housework moves like a well oiled machine. This requires real brain work and is a task equal in importance and difificulty to any that is performed by men in the business world. Some women seem to be born natural organizers, yet all women may improve in this respect if they will take the necessary time and trouble to make for themselves a working plan. 1. System vs. haphazard efifort. The only way to accom- plish any great work is to reduce it to a system; and this is especially true regarding housework with so many varied tasks and so much necessary routine. The meals come in every home, regularly, twice or three times a day, and the other work must group itself around that. If housework is not systematized but done only when the notion strikes the worker, be sure the result will be an untidy home. It is so in business it is more surely so in the home. ; Regularity and precision must mark the performance of house- work or chaos results. Dirt accumulates so fast in this mortal existence that the worker must be most vigilant and systematic to keep ahead of it, and if women would only use their heads more they would need to use the body less. It is a true saying the "head should save the heels." Co-operation in homes is especially desirable that a closer relation exist between the workers on the farm or in the shops and those in the home, so that the work of each may be done with less friction and loss of time. The wise woman will use her wits and her charm to get her husband to see her point of view. She will be equally willing to see his and give them the support and sympathy in his work that she expects from him in return. 3. The master of the system. If it is necessary to have system in the performance of housework, it is more necessary that the one who makes the system must be the master of it. One could scarcely find a more unsuccessful home than the one in which the system is "boss." No joy or spontanity is possible in — such a home because life itself is so variable. The system must be subservient to the best interests of the family; so that the clock-work machinery continues when all is normal, but may take second place during sickness or any unprecedented occurrence. It must be so elastic that it can adjust itself to the varying de- mands of family life. There is no greater slave on earth than the woman who is a slave to her system. Whatever happens one must remain master of one's work. 4. A working- schedule.It is a great mistake to make the work of one or two days of the week so very hard that the worker is exhausted at the end of them. It is much wiser to spread the necessary work of the week over the six days so that n,o one day is especially crowded. If housework is done accord- ing- to a weekly or monthly schedule this may be accomplished and also much of the dreaded semi-annual house cleaning may be avoided. The schedule must vary according to the number of hands there are to do the work. If a woman has no maid, and her children are small, she must plan more wisely than ever, that work may be done in such a way as to leave her some energy at the end of each day. Homes vary as do personalities, and no two could use the same schedule. However, a plan is given here that has been found successful. The home which uses this plan is large and one maid is kept, but it may serve as a guide and may be adapted to fit any condition. This schedule is type-written, framed and hung in the kitchen. It is found to be much more satisfactory than to repeat instructions to children or to a new maid if there is one, and, all in all, is found to be a great saver of energy and annoyance. In this family, too, since it is possible to use electricity for washing and ironing, this process occurs every other week. In the older countries of Europe, washing is done only once a month or once in three months or less often. A business is made of the laundry for two or three days or a week, then it is out of the way for a long period. If properly arranged for the less fre- quent washing is a great saver of time and strength as well as clothing. This is worth considering. a. The Schedule. Every Day. I. Clean bowl and taps in bath room as you wash. II. Make fire, brush ofif stove; empty, wipe off and refill tea kettle. (No mention is made of ashes because a chute runs from stove to a large can in basement and is emptied by a man once in three months.) 1. Begin breakfast. 2. See about yeast and bread. Mix on Monday, Wednes- day, Saturday. III. Brush up front part of house. 1. Open windows and doors to air, remove plants. 2. Brush up (sweep if necessary) library, front room, study, hall, front porch. 3. Dust and straighten. 4. Water plants as needed. 5. Put away books and magazines. I\''. Breakfast at 8 o'clock. 1. Some kind of cereal, and fruit. Chop or eggs. Barley cofifee, cambric tea or milk. V. Clear away. 1. Brush up dining room, downstairs bedroom, bathroom, stairs and porch. 2. Do the dishes as instructed. Clean kitchen and pantry. 3. VI. Dinner at 12 o'clock. 1. Meat, potatoes, one vegetable, dessert. 2. Clear away. 3. Wipe up kitchen floor every other day. Clean thoroughly on Thursday. VII. Supper at 6 p. m. 1. Leftovers soup or vegetable. ; 2. Look up menus in cook books for supper. Special Day's Work. Sunday. I. Dust and straighten downstairs. L Water plants. 2. No breakfast. 3. — Dinner at noon clean linen. 4. — Dutch supper, usually to be simple as possil)le. Monday and Tuesday (every other). 1. Wash and iron. 2. Clean cellar. Monday and Tuesday (the other ones). 1. Clean and straighten house as per daily program. 2. Possible guest dinners. 3. Odd jobs. Wednesday. 1. Dust and straighten as usual. 2. Meals as usual. 3. Clean dining-room and back porch. a. Salt and peppers, wipe off and fill. b. Sugars and spoons, wash and fill (lunip. cinnamon. common. c. Wash napkin rings — keei^ing (rack of napkins. (1. Turn table cloth. e. Clean evervthing on sideboard and serving table.