Transfer Hazel Loomis yh: = N "Gail, we have to decide now. The subject isn't new. We've chewed on this for a year and now an offer's come." "We will have to sell our home then," gasped Gail. '"'And everything else we don't need," urged Hank. Gail walked away from Hank's steady gaze to the wide glass view and the mountain beyond. "I was sixteen the first time I got on a high dive. I was scared to death. I stood teetering on the edge for a long time and then I shut my eyes and jumped in." Hank grabbed the letter and started for the door, turned to look Gail full in the face. ''What's the verdict? I have to see John and let him know." Gail realized her heart was pounding. "It's going to hurt, but I'll jump," she said. She saw the flush of a rodeo rider on Hank's face as he ran down the walk and, _ turning, shouted, ''Call Robbie's Real Estate and put the house on the market." Gail walked to the telephone. Her voice rose unnaturally high when she finally connected with her realtor friend. "Hey, this is Gail. Will our house sell -I mean in _ three weeks?" "You mean you're kidding," came the voice. "Really a transfer," Gail choked. "Sure, itll sell along with 150 others... But we'll come up and measure it and get the papers going." L. Was morning before the real estate man came time enough to have a near computer file on what was to be accomplished in a bare three weeks. When he pounded the "FOR SALE" sign on the front lawn, it was like Deborah's tent peg in the skull of her enemy. From then on, the days grew with the accumulation of heartbreaking labor. Hank's mother came to give a hand through the harrowing experience and to answer "Shall I take this, shall I leave this, to whom shall I give this?" Tar, the twelve-year-old Labrador dog, was there through it all, and Gail was too tired to plan for his parting. But Tar was there and she was glad when he followed her from room to room. He ran when she ran, he walked when she walked. When she sat down, he sat and looked at her with eyes sorrowing. She patted him every time he was close. Tar would be there to help her show the house. People would talk about him first and ease the heartbreak when she would tell how they had made all those special things the two-way fireplace the mirrored china closet the pull-out shelves for cleaning. They would never know how she and Hank finished the wood how they tugged rocks from the petrified forest and made the rock garden. They wouldn't care that they did the insulating that they built the dog house that they built the stereo that they put in the push-button door opener. They wouldn't know the months they had carried swatches of draperies samples of wood pieces of stone sizes of pots and pans (for the exact closet space). She said to herself, "Forget this. You're selling a house,' and then she would remember the very great crowd that gathered when the house was finished and the bishop blessed it. The house sold, and farewell parties began. From the accumulations of happenings, Gail felt like a hen still alive with the feathers being plucked, one by one. Then there was nothing left but the final goodbyes the movers, and seeing Tar off. Then came the very last day in the house. Hank was away on last-minute business. The grandiose last service of the elders quorum, who came and did the perfect clean-up job, left Gail close to tears. What would the other goodbyes be and farewell to Tar for the last time? Gail was alone when the moving van rolled away. Hank would soon be coming, and they would take Tar to the plane. She pulled the 100-yard drape open for a full glass view and a last look. The afternoon sun came pouring in the sky was clean of clouds and a rare blue. The fringe of mountains made a backdrop. It was the patterned cement wall that flooded her memory. It looked as if it would stand forever. That's what Hank said when she carried blocks to him and he slapped them together with plaster. That is what they were saying all the time they were building the house. The lawn was lush and freshly cut the flowers in their best late August bloom. The rock garden was running over with squash and cucumber vines carrots beets chard and tomatoes it was going to make a lot of good eating. She remembered Hank's stock remark, "'Gail grows vegetables and I grow flowers." She closed the drapes, and with Tar, her bodyguard, went from room to room. She stopped to pat him and wished he could speak his feelings, too. She went to the garage and lifted the lid of an old trunk to be sure her big old scrapbook was there. She opened it, thinking she would take the letter her mother had written before her fatal accident. In it was the pedigree chart she was working on. She 590 fingered around until she put her hands on it. She took it out and closed the trunk and put the lock down, remembering kindly the friend who was going to take all those nondescript storage pieces and store them at her mountain cabin. Gail put the letter in her voluminous handbag. By that time Hank had arrived. ""Let's get out of here quickly," he said, and she knew exactly how he felt. The scene was putting Tar in the car for the last time and the screened travel cage then the children pouring from every house in the neighborhood to say goodbye and to pat Tar for the last time. Finally, Hank got Tar into the front seat. He folded himself down like a big colt and put his head in Gail's lap. He groaned comfortably as he always did. Soon they came to the kennel's shipving office. Hank took Tar out of Gail's arms. He took the box out. She heard Hank's firm steps on the boardwalk and Tar's patter, patter, but she turned the other way. She had always said Tar would give his very life for her that if there was any more loyalty to learn, Tar was the example. Hank soon returned, pretending composure, ''Won't those twins be happy when they see Tar?" If Gail had answered him, the sound would have been like cracked straw. Then she noticed Hank was taking the long road around the city. She didn't ask any questions, because she knew what was in his mind. When they were well on the journey, he said, "TIt'll be past midnight when we reach Denver. Hope the kids don't stay up. We'll be dog-tired, and that's the way I want it. I can't feel when I'm tired." It was certainly late when they arrived, and, after the harrow- ing strain of three long weeks, Gail felt like a burned stump. But she caught fire again once safe in the nest of her married daughter. This was next best to being in her own bed. Next morning, they saw in church four families (all transfers from their own town) who waited until after the services to rehearse the joys and sorrows of uprooted families over bowls of homemade ice cream and large pieces of chocolate cake. Sonar behind them, Hank and Gail began their 2,000 mile journey toward the crowded east coast. It had been such a warm, comfortable feeling to be with their own flesh and blood, and the separation from them was more philosophical than what they had felt. A house and a wall and a dog you can't write to, you can't plan holidays with, you can't talk to by telephone. You can't sell a child. As they drove away, Gail looked back, and the Rocky Mountains were strung as far as eye could see from north to south. "There they go," Gail said. "The everlasting hills." "Don't rub it in,' was Hank's reply. Gail knew his thoughts, especially when he set his jaw like that. She knew when to keep quiet and when to boil over. She pulled out her notebook. Writing on paper was a release. It was midafternoon when Transfer Hank stopped at an eating place. While they sat waiting for their order, Hank asked what she had been writing. "Do you want to hear a line?' asked Gail, pulling out her notebook and reading: "What can compensate for the crystal mountain streams? Would that we might hold the clean air swept down from glaciers and use it when city smoke becomes oppressive. Our forebears were washed from the eastern shores to these. Mountains. Never were they pushed back again. Why are we going back? Did they leave something we must find some genealogy something needed to send us on the right road to get the job: done? We are not refugees. We made a choice, and with God's help, we will make good." Few times had she seen Hank weep. She always respected his emotional control. He usually turned his head away, but this was a different day. Three days by car! They were one of a great mobile army going or settling down in a sea of docks and bridges, turnpikes, and toll roads. Oh, for a place, thought Gail, to reach out and touch a blade of grass, a flower, or even a weed! It was, finally, the morning of the seventh day, with Gail and Hank badly in need of rest after their search for an apartment. Yes, it was the seventh day, and they were tired, but they were up early and located a chapel. Around it was a pleasant lawn, shrubs, and flowers. Gail plucked a leaf and squeezed it to see if it oozed green. The hour was early, but there were cars already parked around. The foyer was 591 Transfer light and pleasantly familiar. Gail had a joyful coming-home feeling. A handsome, youngish man emerged from an office door. Gail poked Hank. "T'll bet this is the bishop," she whispered. It was, and he came with his hand warm with greeting. "We're transfers from the West," said Hank, "just sort of checking in." "I'm a transfer, too," said the bishop, "six years ago. From Montana." There was plenty to talk about, then, with not enough time. After the bishop took the usual statistics about them, a young man burst into the front door with urgency written all over his face. "Well, meet the new folks," said the bishop. '"This is the Sunday School superintendent." Introductions were quickly acknowledged. "'What will I do with those teenage boys again? Glen just called and can't teach them this morning. They are incorrigible." "Hank just left from being Sunday School superintendent," Gail volunteered. '""Why don't you ask him?" "Well? Will you?" the poor man was pleading. Hank was shunted off, led by the superintendent. Gail knew what Hank's performance would be. She knew the effect of that sure, calm voice. Pretty soon the young boys would forget to wiggle and whisper as they listened to the Prodigal Son the day in the Sacred Grove he would know the story, whatever it was. Gail sat down on a bench and waited. She saw on the bulletin board "Singing Mothers'