[WomansExponent | Vol4 | 1875 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: NOTES AND NEWS. | Author: Unknown]

	NOTES AND NEWS.
	A NEW daily paper in Middletown Conn.,
has recently been established; a woman's
paper advocating Woman's Suffrage. It is
called the "Sentinel."
	A MASS convention was held in Denver
on the tenth of January last, by the Suffra-
gists to secure Woman's Suffrage in the new
constitution.
	A BRONZE statue of Cromwell has been
presented to the city of Manchester Eng-
land, by Mrs. Abel Heywood. It is nine
feet high and weighs more than a ton,
and rests on a block of rough hewn granite.
Cromwell is represented in the military cos-
tume of the period, and his features are
dignified and impressive. The cost of the
statue is 8,000 dollars.—Ex.
	IT IS reported that the volcano of Vesu-
vius gives signs of an approaching eruption.
The large crater which has been formed
since the last disturbance emits a black
smoke, which has invariably been a symp
tom of volcanic activity, although it is im-
possible to tell what time may elapse before
the actual eruption takes place. Similar
appearances were noticed in Dec. 1851, but
real action did not commence until May,
1855.

[Column 2]
	ONE OF the literary memorials of the
Centennial cannot well fail to prove highly
interesting, viz. a "History of the United
States," now being pushed to completion by
William Cullen Bryant, the poet-journalist,
and Sidney Howard Gay, for many years
managing editor of the New York Tribune.
This history gives a large space to the pre-
historic races of Amerca, the mound-build-
ers, and those of the Old World, people
who came to America before Columbus.
Mechanically, the work is an extensieve en-
terprise in book-making. It will be com-
pleted in four octavo volumes of 600 pages
each, and the first cost of the work will
reach $100,000.
	THE MARRIED Women's Property Com-
mittee in England consists of twenty-five
members; among them are Sir Charles W.
Dilke, Bart., M. P.; Mr. and Mrs. Jacob
Bright; Miss Frances Power Cobbe; Mrs.
Wolstenholme Elmy; Miss Josephine E.
Butler, well known to the world. This
committee have issued a circular, which il-
lustrates something of women's work in
Great Britain. This circular is not political
and yet is equally important, and insepara-
ble from the Suffrage Movement itself.
The object is an amendment of the Woman's
Property Bill, to secure as a married wo-
man her own property, and to make her
liable for her own contracts as if she were
a single woman." It is anticipated the
amendment of this bill will be introduced
at the beginning of the next session of
Parliament by the Right Hon. Russell Gur-
ney, M. P. if he is in England then, if not
by G. J. Shon Lefovre Esq., M. P. In 18-
70, The Married Woman's Property Bill that
was passed, although a very defective aud
and inconsitent one, and differing widely
from the bill which they had endeavored to
promote, yet conferred an immense boon
upon women of the working classes. They
insist that the consequence of that bill was
that a similar measure was passed by the
Legislature in Victoria (Australia) and also
in Ontario, (Canada) and also caused an
amendment of the law which had been ac-
cepted by the Swedish Legislature. There
is no doubt that all these movements carry
an influence and that those who work for
the elevation of woman and the recognition
of her rights in any country, are also work-
ing for all.


THERE IS much of our early gladness that
vanishes utterly from our memory; we can
never recall the joy with which we laid our
head on our mother's bosom, or rode on
our father's back in childhood, doubtless
that joy is wrought up into our nature, as
the sunlight of long past mornings is
wrought up in the soft mellowness of ripe
fruits, but it is gone forever from our imag-
ination, and we can only believe in the joy
of childhood. But the first glad moment
in our first love is a vision which returns
to us to the last, and brings with it a thrill
of feeling intense and special as the recur-
rent sensation of a sweet odor breathed in a
far-off hour of happiness. It is a memory
that gives a more exquisite touch to tender-
ness, that feeds the madness of jealousy,
and adds the last keenness to the agony of
despair.


