[Vol44 | October 1957 | Sequence: 05 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial]
[Editorial: Eternal Bonses Marianne . Sharp]
Page 66] CD EDITORIAL m9 VOL. 


 NO. 10 Glehnal Oe ovauaas ARY had made her choice and she was giving her allegiance to Relief Society. Ever since she had decided not to join the club to which she had been invited, but to attend Relief Society, instead, certain words kept running through her head, "In this society (Relief Society) are intellectual, cultural, and spiritual values found in no other organization.' Mary knew that the sentence, written by the First Presidency in 1942, had influenced her in her decision to join Relief Society. This beautiful late September morning while the baby slept and the other children were in school Mary wondered what intellectual, cultural, and spiritual values were awaiting her in the months ahead. She hunted for her Relief Society Magazine — she knew the lessons were printed in the back, for Sister Heath had pointed them out to her when she subscribed. 'The latest issue Mary found contained lessons to be studied in December, so she hunted until she found the June issue which told of the plans of the lessons for the whole season's work. The Relief Society Magazine opened to the literature heading. She would be studying Shakespeare. For a minute Mary felt scared. Goodness, she hardly knew anything about him. He would be hard to understand. Then the words of the title began to have meaning to her "Shakespeare in Our Lives." As she scanned the titles of individual lessons and their objecPage 662 tives, Mary felt that she would get intellectual, cultural, and_ spiritual values, all three just from the literature course in Relief Society. But in addition there were three, no, four other outlines. One seemed to be about real values for which money should be spent. 'That held great interest for Mary who was trying so hard to stretch their income to cover essential needs. Mary became so interested that she read the first three subjects of the course before she turned back to see what else would be studied. Her heart rejoiced as she realized that she would be joining Relief Society just as they began a study of The Doctrine and Covenants. How many years would they study it? Mary turned back to see. It just said "'several years." She did hope the study would be detailed enough so she would really know the contents of 'The Doctrine and Covenants when she finished. 'The first year's study covered only a few sections, and as Mary hunted her Doctrine and Covenants and saw that it really covered only a few pages, she gave a sigh of relief. She ought to be able to learn those sections this first year. The visiting teachers were going to speak about some great truths from 'The Doctrine and Covenants when they called, and Mary saw that visiting teachers were urged to memorize these verses. If she memorized them herself—then she would be learning scriptures. She remembered reading that Relief EDITORIAL Society mothers were supposed to share what they learned with their families. She would do that, and Jim would help her, she knew. They could use a lot of what she learned in Relief Society in their Family Hour. Finally, Mary turned to the plan of the forthcoming social science lessons—"Latter-day Saint Family Life.' The words, "intellectual, cultural, and spiritual values" repeated themselves over and over in Mary's mind. The Latter-day Saint family was fundamental to the gospel plan! What if she had accepted the invitation to the literary club and confined her learning just to the one subject? Mary was grateful for the example of her mother who had faithfully served in Relief Society. All the unselfish service she had giv- 663 en — sewing for the needy, nursing the sick, calling at homes—all that part, Mary realized, was in addition to the lesson work and was a part of the "intellectual, cultural, and spiritual values found in no other organization." 'There were eternal bonuses in service, Mary decided, for while she would be helping others, her own soul would become enlarged and that would result in blessings to her own family! Joy flooded Mary's heart as she contemplated the Relief Society activities which lay ahead. She had not "paid too much for her whistle," as the Benjamin Franklin story had taught her as a young child, and as the result of her choosing Relief Society, she would be earning eternal bonuses all along the way! —M. C. S.

<P oGn Memoriam—Priscilla Livingston &vans October 18, 1881 - August 12, 1957 RISCILLA Livingston Evans, a former member of the general board of Relief Society, died August 12, 1957, in Salt Lake City. A woman of outstanding spiritual and intellectual gifts, her life was filled with service and devotion to her community and to the Church. Sister Evans was one of the first women attorneys to be admitted to the Utah State Bar Association. Elder Evans was appointed President of the Eastern States Mission in 1937, and Sister Evans served with devotion as "Mission Mother" and president of the women's auxiliaries, until they were released in 1941. She was a true homemaker and a hospitable hostess. She was appointed to the general board of Relief Society, June 18, 1941, and served until 1948.