[Vol44 | October 1957 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Lesson | Title: LESSON | Author: Doxey]
[LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology. The Prophecy Concerning Elijah the Prophet Roy W. Doxey]
Like a talisman, these little brown-shelled goodies spread a magic carpet that carried me back, back through the long years to the crisp October days and pine nut gathering in New Harmony. In our upland valley at 5,000 feet elevation, we were protected by high mountains that held the winter snows to feed the springs and streams for irrigation in the thirsty valleys. Here we knew security and love that today might seem most primitive. October, with its gold and crimson tints splashed generously over the foliage on valley and _ hillside, stood out as a beauty pivot of the year. It was the busy harvest season, the gathering and storing of garden, field, and orchard yields, the wise and careful preparation for the cold and snowy months ahead. Every member of our large family worked and helped, old and young alike. The potatoes were gathered and stored in a long, covered pit near the corner rock wall; the squash were in the barn ready to be covered; garden vegetables were safely stored in pits and trenches. Apples —pearmains, winesaps, Spitzenburgs, and limber twigs—had all been gathered from the tall, shaggy trees. Some had been covered in pits, and Page 674 some were stored in bins and shelves in the cellar under the south part of the big brick farmhouse. In the stackyard were the shocks of corn, ready to be husked; the corn would be fed to the fattening hogs, and the fodder would be carried to the shed for the calves. The barn was full to overflowing with hay, the Conestoga wagon was backed into the shed. The bins in both the new and old _ granaries were brimfull of golden wheat to be hauled to the mill for grist through the year. Now, it was time for our one-day vacation—pine nutting. We younger children looked forward to this with delight. 'There was no need to call us to get up a second time on the morning of our trip. With lunch basket and demijohn of water and buckets for gathering the cones, we were ready for our adventure. The double bed wagonbox, with its two high spring seats and an assorted group of youngsters, held fully as much happiness as any modern conveyance taking a group to the circus. Behind the sturdy rock wall, after we crossed the big ditch, we disturbed a flock of chickadees noisily fluttering and feeding among the dried sunflowers and milkweed plants. At the upper gate, we climbed over the wagonbox and high wheels to open and close the swinging gate, then back again to our places, with our eyes open to PINE NUTTING see new and interesting sights and experiences. Around the corner, as we crossed Comanche Creek, we watched a number of striped chipmunks scurtrying around for food to store for their winter hibernation. On the brown cedar posts at the west boundary of the upper section, we saw a noisy bevy of blackbirds sunning themselves after they had breakfasted in the nearby wheat stubble. On we traveled past the north springs to the mountain road deep rutted and steep, but kept in usable condition by townspeople who hauled their winter wood from the nearby hills and mountainsides. Occasionally, a lizard or a garter snake slithered from the roadside to the shelter of a sagebrush or a sheltering rock. T long last we left the town and farms far to the east, and the horses came to a stop under a pine tree hanging heavy with cones. These cones were about the size of an apple and were made up of segments tightly encircling a woody core. Deep down in each segment nestled a little oval-shaped nut, even more cozy than the downy pussies in their willow catkins. 'These cones were -hard to handle, they had a sticky, oozy coating that stuck to our hands like glue. The sun was high overhead; it was noon, so we spread our lunch on the ground in the shade of the wagon. Afterward, came the knocking with heavy sticks of these green treasure-laden, heavy cones. Unlucky was the one who failed to dodge them and felt their weight 675 on his head or bare feet. We all worked with a will. Not until the double-bed wagonbox was almost filled to the top were we ready to quit. Our hands were sticky and black. We were tired from our long hours of picking, climbing and lifting, but the fun of it overshadowed our fatigue. We finished the last crust from our noon lunch. Our horses, Abe and Frank, refreshed by their rest and a nosesack of oats, were harnessed, and we began our journey home. At the first turn in the road, we saw the eastern vermillion cliffs across the valley with the evening sun casting shadows of deep and lovely hues of purple, rose, and bronze over their craggy peaks. When we arrived home, mother had a heavy bed of live coals from a long-burning wood fire in_ the back yard pit. Tak this we dumped our load of sticky green cones, cOvered it with turf, coal built another fire on top to last part of the night. Next day our treasure-trove was opened, and the browned and toasted cones were lifted out. Some of them were already bursting open and others were ready to open with a touch. Each little brown pine nut, at first just a morsel of milk tucked in its individual cradle, had been nourished by the parent cone all through the summer. By October they were developed and ripe, ready to pop out of their shelter, ready for the toasting, which we gave them. For true delicacy of flavor, these delectable bits of goodness, so rich and sweet, are sure to please the discriminating gourmet. Bleak House Florence B. Dunford ¢ 6 9M all right, everything's fine," I Rose Bennett said. "You're sure?" 'That was Walt, wanting the impossible, wanting to be assured of the impossible. Rose's gray eyes met his. Everything's wrong, it's terrible, you know it's terrible! She could not help the silent accusation. Still, it was not all Walt's fault. Perhaps he had done the best he could with the small amount of money, the time he had. But couldn't you, her heart cried out, have found a better house than this? Something at least respectable? Something that wouldn't degrade the children, stamp them all, before they had a chance to prove themselves? Walt was looking at her anxiously. "You've been doing too much. I should have stayed home this week and helped you get settled. Why don't you make the kids help you?" Rose shook her dark head. "Pm not tired. Jimmy and Cathy have worked their heads off, too." She smiled a little at the slang. It was like a man, she told herself, not to get at the real reason. And Walt especially. Because he'd done the best he could in finding a house, he felt it must be good enough. Besides he was gone all day at the vast dry farm up in the hills where he had his new job as foreman. And Walt and she, well, they were different. Looks, appearance, had always meant a good deal to her. If there weren't. Meat or something nice to fix in the house for Page 6/76 company, Rose just said they couldn't have company. If Walt, in his rather carefree manner, asked them to dinner anyway, Rose suffered. 'They were just different, that was all, made so by their early environment, the way they were reared. Or, maybe, just because one was a man and the other a woman. Yet, it was not of herself Rose had been thinking this past week. Today was the first day of school. Jinny, who was seventeen, with her auburn hair and pale complexion and green eyes, should make friends. But children, like grownups, were critical. Once they discovered, and in this small college town everyone would know it already, that the new girls lived in that terrible, ugly, bleak old house by the railroad tracks, Cathy, who was fifteen, even the two small boys, would suffer. It's just that we've never lived like this, Rose almost told Walt now. In Fremont, where they'd lived since their marriage, they'd had a nice respectable looking house. Almost a pretty place. Rose had promised herself one day to have the yellow and brown frame painted a clear white edged with green. She had never gotten the clapboard windows she wanted. Still she had not minded, set back as the house was on the wide green lawn, shaded on the east by the apple orchard, on the west by the fragrant berry bushes and vines. She lifted her face now for her husband's kiss. "You go along,' she said. "Everything's fine." She steadied herself to keep back the BLEAK HOUSE tears that kept demanding to gush forth. She lifted her chin. "We can't have everything. And it was my idea we move to Gilmore for the schools." 'Walt nodded, kissed her, and was gone. Jinny and Cathy and the two boys had already left for school. I've done as much as I can with the dreadful inside, Rose told herself. A faint worried cry from one of the bedrooms on the east caught her attention. She hurried into the kitchen, took the bottle from the pan of water where it had been warming on the coal range. 'The baby was only three months old. She could not have left him for days, even with Jinny and Cathy. He had not been doing well. Until this past week when the doctor in Fremont had given her a new formula, nothing had agreed with him. After the baby had taken his bottle, she came out of the bedroom and crossed the carpeted floor of the living room. Parting the creamy voile curtains, she looked out front, in a vain hope that things were not as bad as she remembered. The ugly, treeless, baked dooryard was like a blow in her face. Poor children, to come to a home like this! Poor Jinny and Cathy! She continued to stand by the window, forcing herself to accept reality. Across the street in the other direction, toward the west, was a fine brick house. Set back on its wide tree-lined yard, it belonged to the Sheltons, well-to-do dry farmers. The tall curly-haired son was Jinny's age. Directly across the street on the 677 west, Rose could see it from her kitchen door, lived the Linley twins. Blonde, petite, gay and happy in their two-story colonial house, Rose had already heard of the colorful, gay parties the girls gave in the big garden, with its weeping willows and flower-bordered walks. Walt's words came back to her. "It was all I could find,' he had said. 'That was all. Six words that made of them outcasts. Under the stress of her emotion she could think of no work she could do inside. So she went toward the bedroom, the baby in her arms for solace. "There, there, my _ pet,' she crooned, rocking him against her. "Don't you cry. Don't you cry." The baby, wakened from his sound nap, opened his blue eyes and smiled. By five o'clock Rose had roused herself, determined to face her despair. Walt, whose folks, though English-born, were pioneers in Idaho and Fremont, liked hearty meals, fragrant soups with potatoes and carrots, celery and onions and rice, and lots of meat edged with fat. Rose cooked to please him. HE had expected the girls to rush home the moment their last class was over. Jinny's sensitive face would be red and tear-streaked and swollen. Jinny cried easily. It would be more like Cathy to go straight to her room, quiet but heartbroken. Even the two boys, six and eight, had not come home. The first hour had seemed like a reprieve from the gallows. Now, as the clock in the front room struck five-thirty, Rose became anxious. She opened the oven door, set the 678 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 fragrant golden-brown bread pudding on the back of the range. The table in the large kitchen-dining room was already laid. She closed the rear side door now, mindful of curious eyes from across the street. No one would believe, seeing the outside of the house, the surround- _ings, that well-bred people lived here. Suddenly the family all burgeoned in on her at once. Even Walt, whom she had not expected until darkness struck. Expecting a hayoc, a storm, their voices were light as spring. "Don't take time to change your clothes," Rose told them. "Dinner's on the table. What made everyone so late?" Walt, tall in his levis and soft wool shirt, was the only one besides herself who was not dressed in his best. As the bright chatter of the children subsided, he bowed _ his dark head. "Our Father in heaven,' he prayed, in the sudden silence, "we thank thee for thy bounty." The moment he finished, Rose knew the children would begin their woes. Whatever had made them brave for the moment would be forgotten. 'Their bitter experiences of the day would come tumbling out. "Well, what happened today, kids?" 'That was Walt, good-natured, careless of his grammar. He turned to Jinny. "Have a nice time your first day of school?" The two boys began to chatter at once. "We're in a ball team. We stayed after school to practice. Joey is anata We need shoes and a mnie" Rose nodded, holding her breath. The boys were like their father, callous to what went on. 'Tomorrow, next week. It would take them a little longer to realize, to have thrown in their young faces, to admit they would be looked down on, because of the house in which they lived. Cathy was speaking now, her warm olive skin flushed, her long hazel eyes eager and excited. "The nicest thing happened," she was saying, and Rose blinked her eyes and felt that she was dreaming. "The nicest thing happened," Cathy said again. "At our first class —it was English—Miss Mortensen, that's the teacher's name, had all the new students stand and _ tell their names, where they were from and where they lived." Rose held her breath. 'The children sensed her abstraction. Cathy turned to her and said, "Mother, Mother, are you listening?" Rose nodded. "And what did you say? What did you tell your your teacher, where you lived?" "T told her," Cathy said, her eyes clear and sweet and steady, "in the old Jensen house down by the depot." "Yes " Rose breathed. All the feelings of the children, what she thought they would be feeling, poured down on her like an avalanche. CATHY 'S eyes were serious, but sparkling still. "And — she said.'' Cathy looked round the oval itible: with its white cloth, triumphantly, for effect, "Miss Mortensen said that it was good to see some really nice people had moved here. Because now it would be fixed up!" BLEAK HOUSE "Fixed up?" The words faltered from Rose's lips, sounding stupid, yet lightning-sharp, even to her. "Fixed up?" It was true that she had done the best she could with the inside. But it was the outside that seemed impossible. Besides that, some men were handy at painting and planting. Walt was not. When work of that sort was done, they had to hire it done. "Fixed up?" 'That was Walt. And his eyes, too, were shining. Yet even he could not match the happiness, the exuberance of all the children. "Know what?" Jinny said, breaking in on her father. Quick tears came into her green eyes. "At noon today I got acquainted with the Linley twins across the street. 'They're having a big lawn party this Saturday night, the last of the season, they said." No one broke in upon Jinny. There was a happy, I-told-you-so silence from Walt and the other children. "And that's not all," Jinny said, lifting "The dark, curly-haired boy across the street, Dick Shelton, walked home with me from school. He asked me to go to the party with him." There was more, of course. Rose found the heart then, and the voice, to tell them about the real improvement in the baby. How he had really, yes, really, laughed up at her that afternoon! Yet it was not until they were all abed, Walt lying beside her in the quiet of the autumn night, the curher piquant face proudly. 679 tains blowing softly at the open windows, that he told her his news. "T told Thomas about the house," he said. Mr. Thomas was owner of the immense dry farm. "Today, he said I might have Henry and a couple of the other hands for a few days, as soon as there's a lull at the ranch. Henry does all the painting on the main house and the outbuildings. He says we might even round up enough white paint to do our house. "And that's not all," Walt went on. "One of the men is a first-rate carpenter. He's coming tomorrow to measure for those clapboard things you want at the windows." He chuckled as though it was all to be expected. Rose stretched out a_ hand, touched his shoulder lightly. Walt had not been so callous to their needs after all. Like Miss Mortensen said, he was a nice person. Else how could the children be so nice? It had been Rose herself who had been hopeless and therefore helpless. Feeling that what was, was, and could not be helped or changed. "And the yard?" For the first time she could even mention the despicable, disreputable yard. "Oh, the yard," Walt was yawning. "I'm bringing a small tractor down this Saturday. Henry will help me with that, too. And you know what? Not far from the ranch there's a whole grove of trees, pines and quaking aspen. Henry says they'll transplant." It was Rose's turn to yawn now, from sheer happiness. ""The children will all help. And I can, too. The baby's better. It'll do us both good to be outside in this lovely autumn weather." FROM THE FIELD I Pe General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for ""Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Nina Beth G. Cunningham GOODING STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, May 11, 1957 Seated at the left in the front row is the chorister Rachel Howard; Myrtle Woodland, organist, is seated third from the left in the second row; Helen Giles, Counselor, is fifth from the right in the second row: Nina Beth G. Cunningham, President, Gooding Stake Relief Society, is seated third from the right in the second row; former president Jenna Vee Hall, is seated at the left in the third row. Counselor Idella Walker and Secretary Bessie Standlee are not in the picture. Sister Cunningham reports: "At this convention, Elder Leland H. Monson, author of the theology lessons, held spellbound more than 200 sisters and some members of the Priesthood with his discourse on The Book of Mormon. His strong testimony that The Book of Mormon is divine engraved a deeper conviction in the hearts of many, some of whom expressed their feelings in the testimonial which followed. The extensive efforts of the Singing Mothers and their leaders became a fruitful experience in providing a beautiful setting for the convention sessions. Members of the stake Relief Society board served as ushers and also served a hot dinner to the congregation.... Our members are scattered over a wide area. The spirit of the Lord reigned supreme, and the convention was a rich spiritual experience." Page 680 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 681 Photographs submitted by Frances P. Andrus NORTHERN FAR EAST MISSION, HIROSHIMA BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY MAKES FIRST WESTERN QUILT At the right, the quilt is displayed by Sister Esther Sato, missionary. At left, left to mght: Tami Kagoshima; Miyoko Kamotani; Yoshiko Naito; Reiko Otomori; Nikuno Nishihara; Joyce C. Worthen. Frances P. Andrus, President, Northern Far East Mission Relief Society, reports: "The Hiroshima Branch Relief Society has finished the first western quilt to be made in the Northern Far East Mission. Oriental design was used on the appliqued pattern of gray, black, and turquoise on yellow, with a deep wine-colored background. Joyce Worthen of Salt Lake City, Utah, and Esther Sato of Hawaii directed the project. Sister Worthen designed the quilt. The Japanese sisters, undoubtedly, enjoyed this new experience, and plans are now underway for making more quilts." Photograph submitted by Mal B. Oveson UNION STAKE (OREGON) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR MORNING SESSION OF STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE April 1957 Mal B. Oveson, President, Union Stake Relief Society, reports that six wards and three branches were represented in this chorus. The stake chorister is Marie Wakefield and the organist is Evelyn Jones. 682 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 Photograph submitted by Gwen H. Lyman GARFIELD STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE SERVED FOR FORTY YEARS AND OVER May 4, 1957 Front row, left to right: Nellie Smith; Alice Bailey; Amanda Mitchell; Emma Gates; Elizabeth Frost; Francis Shakespear; Polly Spencer; Mary Mooseman. Second row: Minnie Smith; Zella Willis; Mary Lyman; Jane Roundy; Emily Pollock; Annie Alvey; Eliza McInelly. Back row: Ethel Clark; Rachel Thompson; Alta Henderson; Elizabeth Miller; Susan Heaps. Members not present when the picture was taken: Allie Spencer; Fern Henderson; Johanna Barker; Matilda Shakespear; Sarah T. Osborn; Rosie G. Roundy; Ella Roundy; Lovisa Johnson. The social was held at Escalante and the sisters were presented with potted plants. Gwen H. Lyman is president of Garfield Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Irene P. Kerr BRITISH MISSION, DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY SUPERVISORS CONVENTION, NOTTINGHAM, July 6, 1957 Front row, seated, left to right: Cecilia Edwards, Supervisor, Wales District; Margaret Anderson, Assistant Supervisor, Manchester District; Mary Price, Assistant Supervisor, London District; Maud A. Hawkes, Counselor in Mission Relief Society NOTES FROM THE FIELD 683 Presidency; Irene P. Kerr, President, British Mission Relief Society; Mary Laycock, Counselor in Mission Relief Society Presidency; Gladys Fullwood, Supervisor, Liverpool District; Rhona Cunningham, Supervisor, London District; Mary Porch, Supervisor, Scotland District. Back row, standing, left to night: Olive Guest, Supervisor, Hull District; Clare Clegg, Supervisor, Leeds District; Ivy Holder, Supervisor, Bristol District; Lorna Murden, Super

visor, Sheffield District; Mildred Jennis, Supervisor, Norwich District; Rhoda Tinson, Supervisor, Nottingham District; E. R. Elgers, Supervisor, Birmingham District; Vera Hewitt, Supervisor, Newcastle District. Joan Davison, Supervisor, Ireland District, was not present when the picture was taken. Sister Kerr reports: "Sister Rhoda Tinson acted as hostess. 'Thirteen of our fourteen districts were represented. District President Oliver Storer and his counselor George Winfield attended our meetings, thus showing the interest and support given the Relief Society organization by the Priesthood. 'The spirit of love and oneness of purpose was manifest. During the morning meetings, instructions, suggestions, and helps were given by the Mission Relief Society President and her two counselors on administrative problems, visiting teaching, welfare, work projects, and lessons for the coming season. During the afternoon, suggestive articles for bazaars were shown and explained, a question and answer period was held, and time was given for testimony bearing. Each one present expressed gratitude for the Church, for the Relief Society organization, and for opportunities to serve in the Lord's work. The noon hour was spent enjoying a delicious meal prepared and served by the sisters of Nottingham. All the sisters returned to their districts with renewed enthusiasm and a desire to improve the functions of Relief Society." Photograph submitted by Vella V. Tilton FLORIDA STAKE SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION April 29, 1957 Seated at the piano: Rosalind Crosby, chorister; Betty Jo Boos, organist. Back row, standing, left to right: Marian H. Madsen, First Counselor, Florida Stake Relief Society; Evon W. Peterson, member, General Board of Relief Society; Alvin C. Chace, President, Florida Stake; Blanche B. Stoddard, member, General Board of Relief Society; Hazel T. Reed, Second Counselor, Florida Stake Relief Society; Edith Roberson, Secretary-Treasurer, Florida Stake Relief Society. Vella V. Tilton, President, Florida Stake Relief Society, was unable to attend the convention because of illness. She reports, however, that the sisters received much inspiration at the meetings. 684 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 Photograph submitted by Fern Horton SANTAQUIN-TINTIC STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, June 1957 Fern Horton is president of Santaquin-Tintic Stake Relief Society; Jennie Bylund is stake chorister; the singing was conducted by Vera P. Patten; and Bonnie Milner was organist. Sister Horton reports that this group has sung in many conferences and the members are very faithful. Photograph submitted by Eugenia N. Logan OAHU STAKE (HAWAII) VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION AT LAIE, March 30, 1957 Seated, left center of the picture, beginning with Stake President Edward L. Clissold, and reading towards the right: Irene Clissold, member, Oahu Stake Relief Society Board; Lily Colburn, missionary; Evelyn Miyamoto, stake board member; Emily Enos, First Counselor, Oahu Stake Relief Society; Isabelle Kin Kee, Second Counselor; Eugenia Logan, President; Sylvia Boe, chorister; Victoria Kamakaokalani, Magazine representative; Elizabeth K. Forsythe, Secretary. NOTES FROM THE FIELD I 685 Sister Forsythe reports: ""The meeting was conducted by Emily Enos and presided over by Eugenia Logan, President, under the direction of President Edward L. Clissold of Oahu Stake. Total attendance was 158 sisters, three bishops, one high councilman, and President Clissold. Lunch was prepared and served by Isabelle Lin Kee, with the assistance of the work director counselors of the wards and branches. After lunch, a presentation of Church books was made to all the wards and branches for their efforts in enlisting members for the Relief Society. Relief Society pins were presented to the following sisters for their years of service in the visiting teacher program: Simuta Veali (Hauula Branch); Joyce Sears (Halawa Ward); Rachel Price (Kalihi Ward); Maggie Broad (Laie First Ward); Leialoha Jenson (Laie Second Ward); Abigail Kaleiheana (Lanakila Ward); Lily Ing (Moanalua Ward); Katherine Holi (Nanakuli Branch); Mary Bertleman (Pearl City Branch); Susie Kim (Wahiawa Ward)." aaa Photograph submitted by Arta R. Ballif NEW ZEALAND MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY DISPLAYS AT HUI TAU (ANNUAL CONFERENCE), April 18-22, 1957 At the right: Arta R. Ballif, in charge of the women's auxiliaries, wife of President Ariel S. Ballif of the New Zealand Mission. At the left Gertrude Grant, President, New Zealand Mission Relief Society, acting under direction of Sister Arta R. Ballif, New Zealand Mission. Sister Ballif reports: "On display were quilts, crocheting, embroidering, floral pieces, effective visual aids to promote daily reading of The Book of Mormon reading course. The Color Wheel depicted the warmth and color brought into our lives by the use of The Relief Society Magazine. Of interest to all visitors was the Mother Goose party table, seeming to bring to life all the favorite characters of the toddlers.... The centerpiece was the shoe in which the little old lady and her children lived. Secretaries were instructed through charts and graphs. Visiting teachers were given helpful suggestions. Visual aids for teaching and 'take-away' hints were distributed to all visitors. The "Haere Mai ki te Hui Atawhai,' slogan for Relief Society was adopted for 1957, and displayed on banners. It means: "Come to Relief Society, welcome and love to all.' Five hours on Friday morning were devoted to inspirational talks, demonstration teaching, and executive instructions in Relief Society." 686 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 Photograph submitted by Edith E. Baddley SOUTH BOX ELDER STAKE (UTAH), FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY CLOSING SOCIAL, June 4, 1957 Left to right, retiring officers: Karen Wilde; Lucille Olsen; Leona Reese. New officers: Dora Richards, President; Phyllis Owens; Emma Prisbrey; Hazel Packer. This social, planned around the theme "Memories," honored the retiring ward officers and their daughters, and the members of the stake Relief Society board. Sister Lillian Felt sang "Memories," and all of the program numbers were cleverly introduced in rhyme by Sister Nelda Parson, as she took keepsakes from a small chest. A tribute to the visiting teachers was given by Alice R. Rich, from her recently published book of poetry, followed by a piano solo by Linda Jeppson. The Singing Mothers furnished numbers, and Rita Classen sang a solo. 'The accompanists for the afternoon were Jean Packer, Barbara Rasmussen, Paulette Lichtenstein, and Ethel Poulter. Hazel Packer presented a lovely tribute to the memory of the late Sarah Carruthers. All of the honored guests were presented with corsages and special gifts. From the globe in the center of the table mbbons extend to "graduates" representing subjects taught in Relief Society. Refreshments were served. Edith E. Baddley is president of South Box Elder Stake Relief Society. A. Scent of Autumn Hazel M. Thomson Bright, turning leaves, And a chill in the air, Give a sense of summer's loss, And yet, It wasn't quite definite, Until I smelled chilisauce. ) LESS N DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 4—The Prophecy Concerning Elijah the Prophet Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants: Section 2) For Tuesday, January 7, 1958 Objective: To show the value of the prophet Elijah's predicted visit to the earth in our dispensation. The Place of Section Two in The Doctrine and Covenants ECTION 2 is the first in chronological sequence of the revelations in The Doctrine and Covenants. It is appropriate that one of the messages of this volume of scripture should be brought to the attention of the student early in this study—the message that The Doctrine and Covenants attests to the reality of the future life by the revelations which tell of the return to the earth of resurrected beings. Section 2 was placed in The Doctrine and Covenants for the first time in the 1876 edition. It is also found in the Prophet Joseph Smith's history (D. H. C. 1:12), and in The Pearl of Great Price, Writings of Joseph Smith 2:38-39. In addition to attesting to the fact of the resurrection, there are two more points to be remembered from the historical background or context, of this section. First, that the coming of the ancient American prophet Moroni to Joseph Smith on September 21, 1823, was the beginning of the ministry of angels in this dispensation. Second, that the misconceptions of men relative to angels were made known early to Joseph Smith. The great importance of the reality of the resurrection will be discussed later during this course. Ministry of Angels The second fact—the ministry of angels—opens up a number of ideas which are important also. Although men claimed that revelation from God had ceased, there was no scriptural justification for such belief. (See Lesson One.) When people of faith have lived upon the earth, the Lord has revealed his will to them in various ways, such as by Page 687 688 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 the ministry of angels. When people believe that revelation is no longer received nor necessary, such communication from the heavens is withheld. (See Moroni 7:22-20, 37.) The coming of the angel Moroni was prophesied for this dispensation. (See Revelation 14:6-7.) Although the scriptures teach that angels are fellow-beings and fellowservants of us mortals and should be thought of as those who have lived on earth and have passed on to serve as heavenly messengers, men have conceived them to be vastly different from us, for one thing, having wings as a means of locomotion. In describing the heavenly being Moroni, Joseph Smith made known the following truths in answer to prayer for further enlightenment from God. While I was thus in the act of calling upon God, I discovered a light appearing in my room, which continued to increase until the room was lighter than at noonday, when immediately a personage appeared at my bedside, standing in the air, for his feet did not touch the floor. He had on a loose robe of most exquisite whiteness. It was a whiteness beyond anything earthly I had ever seen nor do I believe that any earthly thing could be made to appear so exceedingly white and brilliant. His hands were naked and his arms also, a little above the wrist, so, also were his feet naked, as were his legs, a little above the ankles. His head and neck were also bare.... Not only was his robe exceedingly white, but his whole person was glorious beyond description, and his countenance truly like lightning. The room was exceedingly light, but not sO very bright as immediately around his person. When first I looked upon him, I was afraid but the fear soon left me (D. H. C. T:11). Joseph Smith was instructed many times by Moroni, who had lived upon the American Continent over fourteen hundred years before, but, as a resurrected being, he came as a "fellow-servant'" of those who were seeking to assist in the salvation of mankind. For this purpose was Joseph Smith commissioned by God through the reopening of the heavens in fulfillment of Bible prophecies. 'The modern Prophet, Joseph Smith, could testify not only that the Father and the Son, Jesus Christ, truly existed, but also that the testimony of the Bible prophets concerning the ministration of angels was true. Elijah and Moroni An era of faith had begun; a new dispensation of the gospel with its miracles, had been committed to man upon the earth and angels ministered once more to the Lord's appointed. Section 2 is about another angel from God who also had an important place in the dispensation of the fulness of times. His coming to the earth followed that of Moroni, who spoke of Elijah in his visit to Joseph Smith. Elijah the prophet was a resurrected heavenly being as was Moroni. (See D. & C. 133:55.) His coming was also prophesied in the Bible. (See Malachi 4:5-6.) Section 2 and Malachi 4:5-6 Compared When Moroni visited Joseph Smith he quoted, among other prophecies, the one which closes the Old 'Testament, as follows: Behold, I will reveal unto you the Priesthood, by the hand of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. LESSON DEPARTMENT And he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers. If it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at his coming (D. & C. Section 2). A comparison of Malachi 4:5-6 shows that there are some changes in the above quoted version given by Moroni. The most significant of these is the additional fact that Elijah was to bring the Priesthood to the earth. Next, the phraseology of the second sentence differs but the meaning is still preserved. And last, the penalty expressed in the last phrase of Malachi is clarified by section 2. 'The one point which is preserved by the same language is the expression "... Before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord" (D. & C. 2:1). 'This statement is highly significant because it indicates the time when Elijah would come to the earth. What does this expression mean? It means the day when the Lord Jesus Christ comes in power and glory to take vengeance upon the wicked. It shall be a dreadful day to the unrepentant, but to the righteous it shall be a day of salvation. Before that day, however, Elijah was to come to confer the Priesthood upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery as the capstone of the restoration of divine authority in the last days. (Many of the ideas which follow come from the writings of President Joseph Fielding Smith. A collection of material on this subject is found in Doctrines of Salvation, vol. II, chapters 6-7. Class leaders 689 will benefit materially by consulting this reference. ) Why Elijah Restored Priesthood Elijah was to bring Priesthood to the earth. But some may ask, "Why does Elijah restore Priesthood when Peter, James, and John had already brought the Melchizedek Priesthood to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery?" If these three apostles had been commissioned to do so, they could have performed this function, but there is something more in the mission of Elijah than what was included in the mission of Peter, James, and John. 'This is what the Prophet wrote concerning Elijah: Elijah was the last Prophet that held the keys of the Priesthood, and who will, before the last dispensation, restore the authority and deliver the keys of the Priesthood, in order that all the ordinances may be attended to in righteousness. It is true that the Savior had authority and power to bestow this blessing; but the sons of Levi were too prejudiced. "And I[ will send Elijah the Prophet before the great and terrible day of the Lord," etc., etc. Why send. Elijah? Because he holds the keys of the authority to administer in all the ordinances of the Priesthood; and _ without the authority is given, the ordinances could not be administered in righteousness (D. H. C., [V:211). (Underlining by author.) Although Elijah, Moses, and Jesus conferred keys of authority on Peter, James, and John on the Mount of 'Transfiguration, the Lord had reserved Elijah for the restoration of certain keys for the salvation of man in the last dispensation. (See D. H. C. II:387.) Elijah's mission was one of restoring the sealing power. 'This power was not for the dead ex- 690 clusively, but for the living also. Some have thought it was the keys of baptism for the dead, but it was not that.