[Vol44 | October 1957 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Fiction | Title: Social]
[Social Science: Eternal Marriage John Farr Larson 703]
of  the  forthcoming  social  science 
lessons— ''Latter-day  Saint  Family 
Life.''  The  words,  ''intellectual, 
cultural,  and  spiritual  values"  repeat- 
ed themselves  over  and  over  in 
Mary's  mind.  The  Latter-day  Saint 
family  was  fundamental  to  the  gos- 
pel plan! 
What  if  she  had  accepted  the  in- 
vitation to  the  literary  club  and  con- 
fined her  learning  just  to  the  one 
subject?  Mary  was  grateful  for  the 
example  of  her  mother  who  had 
faithfully  served  in  Relief  Society. 
All  the  unselfish  service  she  had  giv- 
en —  sewing  for  the  needy,  nursing 
the  sick,  calling  at  homes— all  that 
part,  Mary  realized,  was  in  addition 
to  the  lesson  work  and  was  a  part  of 
the  "intellectual,  cultural,  and  spirit- 
ual values  found  in  no  other  organ- 
ization." There  were  eternal  bonus- 
es in  service,  Mary  decided,  for 
while  she  would  be  helping  others, 
her  own  soul  would  become  en- 
larged and  that  would  result  in  bless- 
ings to  her  own  family! 
Joy  flooded  Mary's  heart  as  she 
contemplated  the  Relief  Society 
activities  which  lay  ahead.  She  had 
not  "paid  too  much  for  her  whistle," 
as  the  Benjamin  Franklin  story  had 
taught  her  as  a  young  child,  and  as 
the  result  of  her  choosing  Relief 
Society,  she  would  be  earning  eternal 
bonuses  all  along  the  way! 
-M.  C.  S. 
cJ^n    1 1  ie  mo  nam — LPriscilla  JLivingston   ibvans 
October  18, 1881  -  August  12,  1957 
pRISCILLA  Livingston  Evans,  a  former  member  of  the  general  board  of 
Relief  Society,  died  August  12,  1957,  in  Salt  Lake  City.  A  woman  of 
outstanding  spiritual  and  intellectual  gifts,  her  life  was  filled  with  service 
and  devotion  to  her  community  and  to  the  Church.  Sister  Evans  was 
one  of  the  first  women  attorneys  to  be  admitted  to  the  Utah  State  Bar 
Association. 
Elder  Evans  was  appointed  President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission  in 
1937,  and  Sister  Evans  served  with  devotion  as  "Mission  Mother"  and 
president  of  the  women's  auxiliaries,  until  they  were  released  in  1941.  She 
was  a  true  homemaker  and  a  hospitable  hostess. 
She  was  appointed  to  the  general  board  of  Relief  Society,  June  18, 
1941,  and  served  until  1948.  Her  contributions  to  the  work  of  the  board 
were  of  great  value,  and  her  speaking  ability  was  much  appreciated  through- 
out the  Church. 
Her  former  associates  of  the  general  board  of  Relief  Society  and  the 
sisters  throughout  the  stakes  and  missions  of  the  Church  will  long  remem- 
ber Priscilla  Evans  as  a  richly  gifted  woman  who  shared  her  blessings  and 
inspired  many  in  the  love  of  the  gospel.

Lrurchasina  Soul   L/rowth 
9 
"^OTHING  worth  having  is  free- 
free  from  struggle,  striving,  serv- 
ing, sacrifice,  yet,  we  are  prone  to 
look  at  our  neighbor  and  think  that 
he  lives  an  easy  life.  We  look  at  a 
marriage  and  decide  husband  and 
wife  never  have  had  any  troubles, 
their  married  life  has  been  one  long 
honeymoon.  We  look  at  a  young 
mother  with  many  small  children 
who  manages  well,  and  may  decide 
that  keeping  house  and  tending  chil- 
dren come  naturally  to  her,  that  it 
is  easy  for  her  to  be  efficient. 
It  is  true  that  each  person  is  given 
different  talents  which  come  rather 
naturally,  but  an  all-wise  Father, 
while  expecting  us  to  improve  our 
talents  and  devote  them  to  his  work, 
still  refines  each  of  his  children  by 
having  us  undergo  and  overcome 
situations  which  will  test  us  indi- 
vidually.   Nothing  is  free  that  is  of 
worth. 
Susan  enjoyed  convivial  company 
and  liked  to  entertain  and  see  new 
places;  her  sister  Rebecca  was  very 
contented  to  remain  in  her  home, 
do  her  housework  and  find  her  pleas- 
ure in  the  home  and  ward.  As  the 
years  passed,  Susan,  who  enjoyed 
change  and  free  time,  became  lim- 
ited in  her  activities,  and  her  family 
situation  required  her  to  give  up 
much  of  her  free  time.  Rebecca,  on 
the  other  hand,  had  become  inter- 
ested in  work  which  frequently  took 
her  far  from  her  closest  interests. 
Susan  would  enjoy  the  opportunities 
of  Rebecca,  and  Rebecca  would  be 
content  to  remain  near  home.  Each 
looking  at  the  other  might  feel  the 
other's  work  to  be  easy  and  desirable, 
but  to  each  sister  came  that  train- 
ing and  those  experiences  which 
were  hard  for  her  to  accept.  The 
soul  growth  of  both  was  earned  with 
great  effort  and  in  spite  of  many 
frustrations,  for  soul  growth  is  not 
free. 
We  are  told  that  mother  love  is 
nearest  to  God's  love.  Perhaps  that 
is  because  mother  love  costs  the 
most  in  devotion,  ceaseless  care, 
anxieties,  heartaches,  sacrifices,  and 
selflessness.  But,  after  it  has  been 
fully  paid  for,  deep  joys  and  satis- 
factions are  eternal  profits. 
NOTHING  WORTH  HAVING 
IS  FREE.  BE  HONEST  WITH 
YOURSELF! 
Page  664

[Kecipes  cfrom  the  Southwest  Sdndian   iflission 
Suhmitted  hy  Lavena  L.  Rohnei 
ZuNi  Bread 
Zuni  Soui  Dough  Yeast: 
4  tbsp.  salt 
2  c.  flour 
1  pt.  water 
Other  Ingredients  for  Bread: 
Vi   lb.  lard  or  other  cooking  fat 
12  lbs.  enriched  flour 
1  pkg.  dry  yeast  or  one  cake 
compressed  yeast 
1  c.  warm  water  to  dissolve  yeast 
4  qts.  water 
Mix  the  ingredients  for  the  sour  dough  yeast  together  and  let  stand  overnight. 
Mix  and  knead  until  firm  the  flour,  fat,  and  water.  Let  rise  until  double  in  bulk. 
Knead  down,  then  set  aside  to  rise  again  until  double  in  bulk.  Knead  and  mold  into 
flat  loaves.  Let  rise  to  double  again  and  bake  in  hot  clay  oven  for  one  hour  or  place 
in  stove  oven  preheated  to  350°  F.  and  bake  fifteen  minutes,  then  reduce  the  heat  to 
300°  F.  and  bake  thirty-five  minutes  longer,  or  until  golden  brown. 
Navajo  Kneel-Down  Bread 
4  c.  green  corn  sweeten  to  taste 
pinch  of  salt 
Stone  grind  the  green  corn,  fresh  cut  from  cob,  to  make  a  paste.  Add  the  salt 
and  sugar.  If  corn  paste  is  runny,  add  enough  corn  meal  to  make  a  very  soft  dough. 
Place  one  scant  cup  of  mixture  in  corn  husk  and  wrap  husk  around  corn  dough,  turning 
ends  over  towards  center  of  roll.  Repeat  this  procedure  until  well  wrapped  then  tie 
with  husk  strings  made  by  tearing  the  husks  of  corn  into  strips.  Bake  in  a  pit  which 
has  been  made  very  hot  with  fire.  Line  pit  with  green  corn  husks  and  heap  hot 
coals,  removed  from  pit,  on  top  of  bread  and  bake  for  one  hour,  or  bake  in  hot  out- 
door stone  oven  until  husks  are  lightly  browned,  or  place  in  pan  lined  with  husks 
covered  over  well  with  husks,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  husks  are  lightly 
browned. 
Hopi  Peki 
3  c.  blue  corn  meal 
moist,  watery  sage  ashes* 
dash  of  salt 
boiling  water 
Add  enough  sage  ashes  to  the  corn  meal  to  make  the  mixture  a  light  greenish 
color.  Add  the  salt  and  enough  boiling  water  to  make  a  thin  batter,  similar  to  hot  cake 
batter.  Spread  the  batter  thinly  over  a  hot  peki  stone  which  has  been  oiled  by  leaving 
ground  watermelon  seeds  on  the  stone  all  night.  An  iron  skillet  may  be  substituted 
for  the  peki  stone  in  baking  the  Hopi  Peki,  and  vegetable  oil  or  animal  fat  may  be 
used  instead  of  the  watermelon  seeds. 
*To  make  sage  ashes,  pick  the  green  sage  leaves,  let  them  stand  for  two  days,  and 
then  burn  them.  Sift  the  cooled  ashes  and  add  enough  water  to  hold  the  ashes  in 
solution.  Strain  the  liquid  into  the  batter.  If  some  color,  other  than  green,  is  de- 
sired, commercial  food  coloring  may  be  substituted  for  the  sage  ashes. 
Page  665

666  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— OCTOBER  1957 
Hopi  Blue  Marble 
2  c.  blue  corn  meal  Vz    c.  sugar  or  i  c.  sugar  for  swtQt 
1   c.  boiling  water  Blue  Marble 
1  c.  ashes  (sage) 
Put  one-half  of  the  corn  meal  flour  in  bowl,  pour  boiling  water  into  it,  stir,  and 
add  ashes,  which  have  been  made  into  a  watery  paste,  and  sugar;  stir  and  let  cool. 
When  cool,  add  remaining  one-half  of  the  corn  meal  by  kneading  slowly.  Roll  dough 
like  a  snake,  then  break  into  small  marbles.  Drop  into  hot  water  and  cook  until  water 
reaches  consistency  of  thin  gravy,  or  use  as  you  would  dumpUngs.  Blue  Marble  may 
be  served  with  fresh  or  canned  fruits. 
Fresh  Field  Corn  Bread  (Hopi) 
Cut  fresh  field  corn  off  the  cob  and  grind  through  food  grinder,  using  fine  knife. 
Add  salt  to  taste.  Put  2  or  3  tbsp.  of  the  ground  corn  on  a  husk  and  fold,  place  in  a 
baking  dish  a  layer  of  corn  rolls  and  a  layer  of  husks.  Bake  until  done.  Serve  while  hot 
with  any  stew  dinner  or  roasts.  If  the  corn  is  very  tender,  thicken  slightly  with  flour 
to  make  it  easy  to  handle. 
Sapaipillas  (Haulapi) 
2  c.  flour  pinch  of  salt 
Vi   c.  water 
Mix  flour,  salt,  and  water.  Knead  with  hands  until  dough  is  almost  the  consistency 
of  light  bread  dough,  form  into  balls,  then  roll  out  smooth.  Drop  into  very  hot,  deep 
fat.  The  dough  will  puff  as  it  cooks.  Cook  until  golden  brown.  These  are  delicious 
served  with  sweet  syrup  or  honey. 
Sweet  Sapaipillas  (Haulapi) 
2  c.  flour  /4  tsp.  cinnamon 
Vz   c.  milk  Vz  tsp.  cloves 
!4   c.  sugar  2  eggs,  beaten 
pinch  of  salt  2  tbsp.  shortening 
Mix  all  ingredients  thoroughly.  Knead  as  in  regular  Sapaipillas.  It  may  take  a 
half  hour  or  more,  depending  on  how  fast  you  can  knead.  Form  into  balls,  roll  flat,  and 
drop  into  deep,  hot  fat.     Sprinkle  or  roll  in  powdered  sugar  when  cooked. 
Indian  Mutton  Stew 
4  or  5  carrots  1  tsp.  salt 
2  large  green  peppers  Vi   tsp.  pepper 
3  or  4  potatoes  1  small  leg  of  mutton 
1  large  onion  (optional) 
Put  all  ingredients  into  large  kettle,  bring  to  boil,  lower  heat,  and  cook  slowly 
until  meat  is  tender. 
Navajo  Hot  Sauce 
3  large  onions  2  tbsp.  margarine  or  butter 
10  small  hot  yellow  peppers  4  cans  tomato  sauce  or 
2  cans  water  2  cans  tomato  paste