[Vol44 | October 1957 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Fiction | Title: Bday | Author: Congrats]
JLouise    iiLc  lilurtrey  Lrieces   Guilts  and 
C/inas  ^oy  in   (giving 
NOT  only  does  Louise  McMurtrey,  seventy-eight,  of  Ririe,  Idaho,  piece  quilts  as  a 
hobby,  but  she  tries  to  follow  her  motto:  "Life  is  to  give." 
In  1955,  she  pieced  and  gave  away  twenty  quilt  tops.  She  always  gixes  generously 
of  her  time  at  work  meetings,  and  a  quilt  has  been  a  regular  donation  at  the  ward 
bazaars,  along  with  a  case  of  jam  or  jelly  as  an  additional  gift  for  the  dinner  table. 
She  has  sent  five  finished  quilts  to  the  Primary  Children's  Hospital  for  crippled  children, 
and  many  babies  have  received  one  of  her  beautiful  two-color  rayon  taffeta  crib  quilts, 
of  which  she  has  made  nearly  one  hundred. 
She  lives  alone  and  keeps  her  own  house.  Her  seven  children,  twenty-seven  grand- 
children, and  fifty-four  great-grandchildren  love  her,  write  poetry  to  commemorate  her 
birthday  anniversaries,  and  honor  her.  She  loves  flowers  and  has  a  beautiful  rose 
garden. 
n octurne 
Pansye  H.  Fowell 
The  brook 
At  set  of  sun 
Plays  a  quiet  nocturne 
For  aspens  that  nod  their  heads  and  fall 
Asleep. 
Page  673

Pine  Nutting 
Alice  R.  Rich 
npHE  little  cellophane  packages  of 
pine  nuts  on  display  in  the  gro- 
cery store  today  did  more  than  ad- 
\ertise  a  product  for  sale,  thev 
opened  the  floodgates  of  nostalgic 
and  tender  memories  for  me.  Like 
a  talisman,  these  little  brown-shelled 
goodies  spread  a  magic  carpet  that 
carried  me  back,  back  through  the 
long  years  to  the  crisp  October  days 
and  pine  nut  gathering  in  New 
Harmony. 
In  our  upland  \'alley  at  5,000  feet 
elevation,  we  were  protected  by  high 
mountains  that  held  the  winter 
snows  to  feed  the  springs  and 
streams  for  irrigation  in  the  thirsty 
valleys.  Here  we  knew  security  and 
love  that  today  might  seem  most 
primitive. 
October,  with  its  gold  and  crim- 
son tints  splashed  generously  over 
the  foliage  on  valley  and  hillside, 
stood  out  as  a  beauty  pivot  of  the 
year.  It  was  the  busy  harvest  season, 
the  gathering  and  storing  of  garden, 
field,  and  orchard  yields,  the  wise 
and  careful  preparation  for  the  cold 
and  snowy  months  ahead.  Every 
member  of  our  large  family  worked 
and  helped,  old  and  young  alike. 
The  potatoes  were  gathered  and 
stored  in  a  long,  covered  pit  near 
the  corner  rock  wall;  the  squash 
were  in  the  barn  ready  to  be  cov- 
ered; garden  vegetables  were  safely 
stored  in  pits  and  trenches.  Apples 
— pearmains,  winesaps,  Spitzenburgs, 
and  limber  twigs  —  had  all  been 
gathered  from  the  tall,  shaggy  trees. 
Some  had  been  covered  in  pits,  and 
Page  674 
some  were  stored  in  bins  and  shelves 
in  the  cellar  under  the  south  part 
of  the  big  brick  farmhouse. 
In  the  stackyard  were  the  shocks 
of  corn,  ready  to  be  husked;  the 
corn  would  be  fed  to  the  fattening 
hogs,  and  the  fodder  would  be  car- 
ried to  the  shed  for  the  calves.  The 
barn  was  full  to  overflowing  with 
hay,  the  Conestoga  wagon  was 
backed  into  the  shed.  The  bins  in 
both  the  new  and  old  granaries 
were  brimfull  of  golden  wheat  to  be 
hauled  to  the  mill  for  grist  through 
the  year. 
Now,  it  was  time  for  our  one-day 
vacation— pine  nutting.  We  young- 
er children  looked  forward  to  this 
with  delight.  There  was  no  need 
to  call  us  to  get  up  a  second  time 
on  the  morning  of  our  trip.  With 
lunch  basket  and  demijohn  of  water 
and  buckets  for  gathering  the  cones, 
we  were  ready  for  our  adventure. 
The  double  bed  wagonbox,  with  its 
two  high  spring  seats  and  an  as- 
sorted group  of  youngsters,  held 
fully  as  much  happiness  as  any  mod- 
ern conveyance  taking  a  group  to 
the  circus. 
Behind  the  sturdy  rock  wall, 
after  we  crossed  the  big  ditch,  w^e 
disturbed  a  flock  of  chickadees
