[Vol44 | October 1957 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Pine | Author: Rich]
[Pine Nutting Alice R. Rich]
'Tamily  Hour"  is  the  answer! 
This  plan  for  happiness  is  neither 
costly,  complicated,  nor  coyprighted. 
And,  best  of  all,  it  can  be  adapted 
for  use  by  any  family  anywhere. 
Many  parents  overlook  the  tre- 
mendous possibilities  of  happiness 
within  their  own  family  circle.  They 
plan  things  to  get  away  from  their 
children  instead  of  planning  to  in- 
clude them  all. 
We  believe  the  Family  Hour  is 
the  finest  way  to  create  and  strength- 
en family  unity,  to  build  tradition 
in  the  home.  Traditions,  in  their 
simplest  sense,  mean  something  peo- 
ple invent  in  order  to  hold  fast  to 
home  and  one  another.  Little  things, 
often  repeated,  if  they  are  pleasant 
things,  become  woven  into  the 
commonplaceness  of  existence  like 
bright  threads  —  giving  character, 
lending  enchantment.  And  the 
memories  of  family  tradition  that 
children  accumulate  go  with  them 
through  their  lives. 
Page  644 
The  traditions  holding  families  to- 
gether are  often  so  small  and  simple 
that  the  outside  world  hardly  recog- 
nizes them.  The  father  and  mother 
who  devote  one  regular  time  to 
social  life  with  their  children  will 
escape  that  left-out  feeling  when 
their  children  have  grown  up.  Those 
with  a  tradition  of  love  and  com- 
panionship, dignity,  and  peace,  will 
give  their  children  a  heritage  they 
will  fight  to  preserve. 
The  Family  Hour  provides  the 
most  ideal  situation  to  teach  religion 
in  the  home,  to  discuss  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  gospel  and  instill  in 
our  children  the  desire  to  apply  the 
gospel  teachings  to  their  daily  lives. 
It  provides  an  opportunity  for 
teaching  and  practicing  self-expres- 
sion by  active  participation  of  each 
family  member;  for  developing  and 
encouraging  talents  of  family  mem- 
bers; for  teaching  consideration  and 
respect  for  others;  for  encouraging 
co-operation  among  all  members  of 
the  family,  the  Church,  the  schools 
and  the  community;  and,  above  all, 
it  encourages  fun  and  laughter  and 
wholesome  recreation  within  the 
family  circle. 
VIU^RITING  from  our  own  experi- 
ence in  conducting  the  Family 
Hour  in  our  home,  there  are  several 
suggestions  we  might  make  that 
help  build  toward  a  more  enriched 
Family  Hour. 
1,  Adapt  your  Family  Hour  program  to 
the  needs  and  ages  of  your  own  family. 
We  suggest  great  flexibility  and  a  willing- 
ness to  change  the  program  on  the  spur
