[Vol49 | September 1962 | Sequence: 06 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Sharp]
[Editorial: "Upon . . . The Parents" Marianne C. Sharp]
Melinda wondered if it rained every day in Southern California, or if she and Les just moved here from Utah in an unusual year. At any rate, the rains came down every Tuesday — Relief Society day. 'To Melinda, the week just wasn't right unless she went to meeting. Relief Society was a must on her list of events. Today was a special day — theology and testimonies. 'The sisters' testimonies established strength for the whole month. And now for the news. "Well, rain or no rain, the clock radio still goes off, and Les still has to go to his teaching position at the engineering college," sighed Melinda as she jumped out of the cozy warm bed to catch the alarm before it went off. She and Les didn't really need to set the radio alarm, because fourmonth-old Bryan usually awakened at six. But then, there was always a chance that he might sleep until seven, and then everyone would be off schedule. Melinda prepared Les' breakfast of grapefruit, cereal, and milk. As usual, little blue-eyed Bryan was wide awake and anxious for his breakfast. 658 six o clock With Les off to school and Bryan back to bed, Melinda _ leisurely washed the breakfast dishes. Another rainy Tuesday, why does it rain on Relief Society day? Thought Melinda, as she watched the rain pour down into the already overflowing street. Because the Tain was coming so fast and hard, Les had driven to school. He usually walked on 'Tuesday. Melinda's thoughts were interrupted by a radio report: "Traffic is congested on Manchester and LaBrea, due to slick roads caused by the heavy rain. Motorists are advised to drive cautiously." "Guess I best forget about going today..." Melinda mused unhappily. As she scurried about the living room straightening the morning newspaper and setting yesterday's sewing in order, another news item came over the radio: "Sixty homes in South Inglewood have now been evacuated because of the flooding waters." Oh, dear, Melinda said to herself, these rains are taking control of everything. We had better stay home for sure. As Melinda was making this final decision, the telephone rang. "Hello. Oh, Sister 'Timothy, how are you this fine rainy morning?"