[Vol49 | September 1962 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Fiction | Title: Mae]
[Mae Martindale Johnson — Organist and Teacher of Music]

'The first was 'Streamlining the Relief Society,' directed by Lydia Jenson, stake visiting teacher message leader, and the second - 'Builders of the Kingdom,' directed by Nellie Stevenson, stake theology class eader. "A lovely luncheon was then served to 350 visiting teachers. The tables were decorated by Jane Jamison with red ivy geraniums and many antique pieces, such as curling irons, oil lamps, stiff collar boxes, and other items. This opened the way for much fun and conversation, such as 'I remember when....' "Emaline Bluth, Work Director Counselor, and Helen Berger, from Santa Monica First Ward, had gathered from the wards and arranged on display a wonderful collection of 'Creative Art in the American Home.' Part of our Relief Society heritage is the reviving of The American Arts, the remembrance of things past and the traditions made mellow over the years." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 and Luncheon irc ¢ Wel 7 Emily E. Burr, President, Sacramento Stake Relief Society, reports: "On April 27, 1962, the Sacramento Stake Relief Society held a luncheon and social honoring all of the sisters in the stake over seventy years of age, of which we have ninety-five. There were forty-nine sisters in attendance, and three of them were eighty-nine years of age. The tables were beautifully decorated, and a lovely luncheon was served by the stake board. The short program was enjoyed by all. It was a real joy to hear the sisters talk of the times they had when they were presidents and counselors in Relief Society. Some of the elderly sisters were unable to attend the luncheon and social, but a great many of them are still very active in Church work." * e i. ~ J oi "ae sa F 4 i af x a4. * ' 3 * ~ iN + j -_. >. * 7 ' —_.?. A 4 A By é 3 Z. @; Rs 2 _.: < Kansas City Stake, Kansas City (Kansas) First Ward Singing Mothers Concert, February 2, 1962 Front row, left to right: Joyce Sanders, director; Clarine Downs and Mary Condie, accompanists; Doris Watkins; Donna Fry; Rowena Gillette; Virginia Rowe; Emma Kemp; Janice Bassett, First Counselor; Norma Clark; Norma Tracy, Second Counselor. Second row, left to right: Audrey Kelly; Elsie Parnell; Lucille Molen; Wilma Sneddon; Lois Smith; Leona Danbury; Venna Witbeck; Janet Mollus; Kay Pope; Zina Walker; Verda Willyard. Back row, left to right: Birdella Corcoran, President; Marian Laudie; Ann Scott; NOTES FROM THE FIELD 689 Norma Wheatley; Marjorie M. Reeve, President, Kansas City Stake Relief Society; Helen Smith; Laura Midgley; Geri Fackrell; Ingaborg Midgley; Sharron Newberry. LaRue Wilde and Jacquelin Kirkpatrick were not present when the picture was taken. Sister Reeve reports: 'The Kansas City First Ward Singing Mothers presented a concert for the building fund. Thirty-four sisters spent long hours in rehearsals. Many nonmembers attended, giving an excellent opportunity to ask '"'the Golden Questions" and to explain our Relief Society program. Our selections for presentation in the concert were excellent. We all love the Magazine very much.": io ary ' a = gt Andes Mission (South America), Magdalena Del Mar Branch Singing Mothers Present Music at Leadership Meeting for Two Districts April 15, 1962 Left to right: Gloria Malaga; Victoria de Manquez; Isabel de Hurtado; Bertha de Vergaray; Nancy Brown; Amparo de Ramirez; Mavie Dye; Celinda Clements; Augstina de Lopez; Graciela de Pachas; Josephine de Ramos; Adriana Ramos. Fawn H. Sharp, President, Andes Mission Relief Society, reports: ""The first twodistrict leadership meetings of the Relief Society was held in the Mira Flores Branch in Lima, Peru. All of the officers and teachers of the two districts were in attendance. "Informative displays were made of the lesson materials for the year, with one of the sisters explaining the display. Charts were on display of the monthly report, and Sister Ruth Ojeda (a Peruvian missionary) explained the new roll book and the procedure for filling out the monthly report. "There were several displays of suggestions for work meeting, with each branch bringing one idea to show and to share. The sisters brought a pattern for each article to be exchanged with the other branches. "A Singing Mothers chorus directed by Nancy Brown and Mavie Dye presented music for the afternoon. One of the members of the chorus, Bertha Vergaray, gave a short talk on the value of a Singing Mothers chorus in the branch. The slides of the work meeting articles displayed by Relief Society in Salt Lake City at the time of the mission presidents conference were given to each branch, along with a copy of the directions and instructions translated into Spanish. "It is the plan now to hold a meeting of this type for the two districts in Lima four times a year, giving the sisters the helps and instructions most needed. All the materials discussed and ideas used will be taken or sent to the scattered branches in Peru, so that all will benefit from these meetings." Mae Martindale Johnson — Organist and Teacher of Music RS. Mae Martindale Johnson, Rupert, Idaho, has faithfully served Relief Society and other Church auxiliary organizations for many years as an accomplished musician and organist. Her service as a musician began in 1900, when, at the age of thirteen, she was named assistant organist for the Oakley Ward, Idaho, where _ her father, William C. Martindale, was presiding elder, having been sent to head the Church colony in that part of Idaho in 1879. Since this first assignment, Mrs. Johnson has served as organist in all the Church auxiliaries and has been a member of the Minidoka and Burley Stake Relief Society boards over a long period of years. She is generous with her talents, and she and her husband, Herman Johnson, are much in demand for entertainments, at which he plays the guitar and she the piano accompaniment. Although barely able to reach the pedals of the pipe organ, she is an accomplished organist and is dearly loved for her beautiful music and for her devotion to the community Mrs. Johnson is the mother of six talented children, five of them musicians of note, and all of whom serve the Church and their communities. Mrs. Johnson also reared her husband's youngest brother and sister. She is devoted to her grandchildren and great-grandchildren, many of whom are following her love for music and her service in the Church. 690 LESS ON DEPARTMENT THEOLOGY e The Doctrine and Covenants esson 43 — The Day of Rest and Devotions Ider Roy W. Doxey Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 59:1-14) or First Meeting, December 1962 pjective: To learn what the Lord has said regarding rest from labors and the Sabath day. Troduction ville Branch members were present On Sunday, August 7, 1831, the at this conference. 'rophet Joseph Smith attended the They Shall Rest From Their Labors uneral of Polly Knight, wife of The Lord promised blessings to oseph Knight, Sr., who had given those who were to come up to the aterial substance to the Prophet. Land of Zion, provided that they (D & C 12; 23:6.) Their son, Newwould have an eye single to God's el K. Knight, wrote that his mother glory. As Section 59:1 points out, insisted upon traveling from Kirt- "an eye single to my glory" re land to Missouri notwithstanding quires that one keep the commandthe fact that she was very ill. Her ments. Consistent with _ this greatest desire, to stand on the land — thought is the: verse which follows: 4 Zion, was granted her. Of Polly For those that live shall imherit the Knight the Prophet wrote that she earth, and those that die shall rest from as the first to die in the land of all their labors, and their works shall fol- _fion, and as "a worthy member _ low them; and they shall receive a crown Sleeps in Jesus till the resurrection." 9 the mansions of my Father, which I (DHC I: 199, footnote.) By the 7th have prepared for them (D & C 59:2). Of August the land of Zion was conOne may reflect upon this scripsecrated as a gathering place for the ture with joy, realizing that when aunts, the temple site was dedimen and women follow the Lord's ated, and the first conference was plan of life here, their righteous eld in Zion, this being the Fifth labors will be rewarded when moreneral Conference. 'The Coles. _ tality ends. I ) +. 691 692 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 Following the necessary sojourn in the spirit world where advancement is made toward the ultimate glory of the resurrection, a place is received in the mansions of the Father — the celestial kingdom, for those who have had their minds single to God. (D & C 88:20-22, 66-68. ) Revelations Are Blessings The good things of the earth are promised those who obey the gospel. This is a blessing discussed in Lesson 41 (Relief Society Magazine, July 1962) concerning Zion. In addition to these temporal blessings, the saints are to be blessed with commandments and revelations: And they shall also be crowned with blessings from above, yea, and with commandments not a few, and with revelations in their time — they that are faithful and diligent before me (D & C 59:4). There is the fact that one's spiritual welfare is greatly enhanced by obedience to all of God's commandments. 'There are some people, and their numbers are great, who believe that commandments are restrictive, little realizing that the gospel frees people from bondage. (John 8:31-32; D & C 84: 49-53.) Real freedom consists of a clear conscience toward God and man. Commandments come by revelation. Revelations also provide the faithful with hope, peace, and courage to continue on to the end. Great Commandments Only the Father can say that one of his commandments is greater than another. This he has done through his Son by saying that one should love God as the first commandment and second, that one should love his neighbor as himself. (Matt. 22:37-40.) In the revelation comprising this lesson, notice the important information given about these two great commandments. Wherefore, I give unto them a commandment, saying thus: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy might, mind, and strength; and in the name of Jesus Christ thou shalt serve him. Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Thou shalt not steal; neither commit adultery, nor kill, nor do anything like unto it (D & C 59:5-6). In this revelation specific reference is made to certain commandments the violation of which clearly indicates that one does not love his fellow man. 'These laws condemn stealing, adultery, murder, or anything like it. All one needs to do to verify the importance of these laws in relation to the second great commandment is to ask: "Does one love his neighbor if he commits any one of these infractions of the moral law?" (Lessons 26 and 27, Relief Society Magazine, August, September, 1960. ) Thanksgiving and Humility Thanksgiving is to be shown to the Lord in all things. For what should the saint be thankful — life with its opportunities to prove oneself? The fulness of the gospel that brings purpose into life? That divine direction is received today by inspired prophets? The joy of knowing that great blessings accrue to those who are faithful? These and countless other blessings should be acknowledged to the Father in LESSON DEPARTMENT prayer. But this is not the only way that gratitude is to be expressed. When one keeps the commandments, he prays, and he also loves the Father and the Son. (John 14:15; D & C 46:7.) Prayer offered in humility with a thankful heart assists one to continue in the faith. Humility is the quality of being teachable, of responding fully to the Lord's will. The humble person, one who has a broken heart and contrite spirit, will demonstrate his gratitude for all things, and he will be made glorious. (D & C 78:19.) The Sabbath Commandment All of the foregoing truths from Section 59 were given in preparation for the Sabbath day commandment, as follows: And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day; For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High; Nevertheless thy vows shall be offered up in righteousness on all days and at all times; But remember that on this, the Lord's day, thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto the brethren, and before the Lord. And on this day thou shalt do none Other thing, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or, in other words, that thy joy may be full. Verily, this is fasting and prayer, or in other words, rejoicing and prayer (_D & C 59:9°14). 693 Shown in the form of "thou shalt," or what is required on the Sabbath day, these commandments may be stated as: 1. "Thou shalt go to the house of prayer." For what purpose? " that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world." Under the most favorable conditions people may fall away from the truth, but the person who goes to the appointed Church meetings will find a place of faith, of learning, of glory, of order, and verily, a house of God. (Ibid., 88:119.) In the house of the Lord, as in a sacrament meeting, the communicant meets friends from whom he receives encouragement. Sometimes members of the Church absent themselves from the sacrament meeting because they feel that they hear the same messages often, or for some other reason. President Heber J. Grant had this to say on this thought: There are some who say they will not go to meeting because they know just who will talk and what they will say. I realize that such persons are becoming indifferent to the spiritual things of the kingdom. I know people, who, in the old world, would go many miles to a meeting because they were in love with. The gospel. They will not cross the street now because they have lost that love. Just as surely as failing to eat will cause our physical frames to shrink and die, just so sure neglect to supply our spiritual natures will bring death to them (Gospel Standards, page 98). 2. Thou shalt "offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day."- What does this mean? Sacraments and devotions are similar. Specifically, a sacrament is a ceremony wherein 694 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 one makes a covenant with the Lord. For Latter-day Saints the partaking of the sacrament constitutes a covenant-making and a covenant-renewal opportunity. When partaking of the sacrament worthily, the member is promised the blessing of the Spirit to be with him. Here alone is sufficient reason for attending the sacrament meeting in the true spirit of worship. 3. "This is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors." Verse 10 of Section 59 informs us that the keeping of this commandment is essential to Sabbath worship. What does it mean to rest? Certainly it does not mean idleness. But from what are we to rest? Elder John A. Widtsoe suggested that a true rest is one in which the person has a change from the occupations or work of the weekday; however, we should devote our activities to the requirements of the Sabbath day. (Evidences and _ Reconciliations 1:220-221.) But are there activities of the week in which some people must be engaged? 'There is necessary work to be performed, such as the feeding and care of animals on the farm, some public service industries as power, light, hospital, police and fire protection, etc. In the main, however, the person who engages in Sunday work may find himself an inactive member of God's kingdom. 4. Thou shalt "pay thy devotions unto the Most High." As indicated earlier, devotions are similar to sactament as given in this revelation. What are the devotions of the saint in meetings of the Sabbath? Instructive on this question is the following: On the Sabbath, the Saints should be in the house of prayer and offer up their 'sacraments'; that is, present their devotions before the Lord, in the form of songs of praise, prayer and thanksgiving, testimonies, partaking of the Sacrament, and contemplation of the Word of God. All this is meant by the word "sacrament," which, in its widest range, stands for any sacred rite or ceremony whereby we affirm our allegiance to our divine Lord (D & C Commentary, page 351). In the words of President Joseph F. Smith: Men are not showing zeal and ardor in their religious faith and duty when they hustle off early Sunday morning on the cars, in teams, in automobiles, to the canyons, the resorts, and to visit friends t places of amusement with their wives and children. 'They are not paying their devotions in this way to the Most High (Gospel Doctrine, page 246). 5. Thou shalt offer thine oblations... Unto the Most High." Spiritual as well as temporal offerings (which are really spiritual) are to be rendered to the Lord. An enlightening explanation of the meaning and application of "oblations" anciently and today, may be found in the D & C Commentary, page 352. 6. Thou shalt confess "thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord." The following statement of Elder Marion G. Romney, delivered in general conference, suggests an explanation: I would assume that we are to confess all our sins unto the Lord. For transgressions which are wholly personal, affecting none but ourselves and the Lord, such confession would seem to be sufficient. For misconduct which offends another, confession should also be made to the offended one, and his forgiveness sought. , ee a=] LESSON DEPARTMENT Finally, where one's transgressions are of such a nature as would, unrepented of, put in jeopardy his right to membership or fellowship in the Church of Jesus Christ, full and_ effective confession would, in my judgment, require confession by the repentant sinner to his bishop or other proper presiding Church officer — not that the Church officer could forgive the sin (this power rests in the Lord himself and those only to whom he s

pecifically delegates it) but rather that the Church, acting through its duly apointed officers, might with full knowledge of the facts take such action with respect to Church discipline as the circumstances merit. One having forsaken his sins and, by proper confession, cleared his conduct with the Lord, with the people he has offended, and with the Church of Jesus Christ, where necessary, may with full confidence seek the Lord's forgiveness and go forth in newness of life, relying upon the merits of Christ (Romney, Marion G.: Conference Report, October 1955, page 125). 7. Thou shalt "let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart." It seems that the intent of this instruction is that Sunday does not become a feast day. On this point we have the following: Upon the Sabbath, even the food should be prepared "with singleness of heart"; that is to say, in simplicity. Our hearts, our desires, on that day should not be elaborate feasts, whereby some are prevented from having a Sabbath. A simple meal should suffice. 'To that extent every Sabbath should be a fast day, one bringing perfect joy (D & C Commentary, page 352). 8. "And on this day thou shalt do none other thing." This admonition seems to point out that the positive requirements of observing Sunday, as listed above, provide €nough counsel on what should be 695 done. It is also apparent to the careful reader of this revelation that the Lord did not seem at that time to catalogue the negative aspects of this law.