[Vol49 | September 1962 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Lesson | Title: Map | Author: Course]
[Map Available for Theology Course]

In time, however, disobedience by the world to the Sabbath law in making Sunday a holiday instead of a holy day, and the use of the automobile with public places of recreation open on the Sabbath became widespread, and members of the Church began to succumb to these temptations. Accordingly, First Presidencies have issued formal statements about Sabbath observance. The latest, issued on June 19, 1959, by President David O. McKay, J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and Henry D. Moyle, emphasizes the commandments given anciently and in Section 59. After quoting the modern revelation and Exodus 20:8-11, 20, the following appears: Latter-day Saints should not permit these commandments regarding the Sabbath to slip from their minds. All during this, the Last Dispensation, the Prophets of the Lord have urged Sabbath-observance upon the people. Different concepts of Sabbath-observance have been urged upon us by unbelievers, partial-believers, and by the thoughtless, concerned primarily with the pleasures of the world, sometimes under the guise of recreation, sometimes by activities the Lord has told us were sinful. The Sabbath is not just another day on which we merely rest from work, free to spend it as our lightmindedness may suggest. It is a holy day, the Lord's Day, to be spent as a day of worship and reverence. All matters extraneous thereto should be shunned. We must bear in mind all these principles. We must remember particularly actual Sabbath-breaking labor which might be required from a great number of Lesser Priesthood members in any Sabbathbreaking activities, including interference 696 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 with their duties and attendance at quorum meetings. For all these and for many other reasons affecting injuriously the religious duties and activities of the whole Church membership, Latter-day Saints, with a testimony of the Gospel and a knowledge of the spiritual blessings that come from keeping the Sabbath, will never permit themselves to make it a shopping day, an activity that has no place in a proper observance of the Holy Day of the Lord, on which we are commanded to pour out our souls in gratitude for the many blessings of health, strength, physical comfort, and spiritual joy which come from the Lord's bounteous hand (Deseret News, Saturday, June 20, 1959). Parental Example The Lord established the Sabbath as a holy day that man might benefit spiritually. Unto Moses, Israel's prophet, the Sabbath was known as a sign between the Lord and Israel. (Exodus 31:13-14; Ezekiel 20:10- 24.) "the counsel to keep the Sabbath holy is as applicable today as when it was given. 'The observance of Sunday as the Lord's Day is a fact of modern revelation. (D & C 59:12.) The keeping of the Sabbath today will have the same effect as was promised anciently, the sanctification of the person. How will the world know the Lord's people today? One way is by their observance of the day of rest. The testimony of the truth comes to the obedient. A witness of the gospel must be based upon the faith of the individual. Every parent should ask, "Is my attitude toward Sabbath observance reflected in the faith of my children?" In other words, if the parents break the law, will the children feel that they also may disregard the Lord's commandment? Observance of the Sabbath day by the parents brings forth fruits of faith in the lives of the children and the testimony of truth through keeping the other commandments. Questions for Discussion 1. Discuss: The commandments of the Lord are blessings. 2. Name some of the commandments (not Sabbath day) given in the forepart of this lesson. 'I'ell why they are important. 3. Enumerate some of the blessings for which the Latter-day Saint should be thankful. 4. Name as many of the eight "thou shalts" of Sabbath day observance as you can, 5. What does it mean to (a) offer up thy sacraments (b) rest from thy labors (c) pay thy devotions to the Most High. 6. Discuss: Sabbath day observance by parents affects the lives of their children. M A P A\ ] A II A BI E A map (28" x 21"), "The Mormon Exodus to the Rocky Mountains," FOR 1 AFITANY oN TNX T = I 4 I ¢ ' j I () RS showing the journeyings of the saints from New England to the West, is available at the Deseret Book Store, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, 65c postpaid. Its use is recommended by the General Board of Relief Society.