[Vol49 | September 1962 | Sequence: 08 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes | Author: Parker]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker]
ntcA^ 
FROM  THE  FIELD 
General  Secretary-Treasurer  Hulda  Parker 
All  material  submitted  for  publication  in  this  department  should  be  sent  through 
stake  and  mission  Relief  Society  presidents.  See  regulations  governing  the  submittal  of 
material  for  "Notes  From  the  Field"  in  the  Magazine  for  January  1958,  page  47,  and 
in  the  Relief  Society  Handbook  of  Instructions.  -« 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  ACTIVITIES 
Ensign   Stake  (Utah),    Ensign   Fourth   Ward    Refief   Society 
Presents  Anniversary  Program  "Reflections," 
March  14,  1962 
Front  row,  left  to  right:  Catherine  H.  Thompson;  Margaret  Tingey,  as  Mary 
Magdalene;  Fern  Clissold,  as  Esther;  Grace  Ovard,  as  Anna;  Erma  Hinckley,  as  Eve; 
Lois  Sorenson,  as  Elizabeth;  Geraldine  Ballard,  as  Emma  Smith;  Elma  Bradshaw. 
Back  row,  left  to  right:  Connie  Fuller,  as  Salome;  Winona  Jensen,  as  Hagar; 
Darlene  Butler,  as  Ruth;  Esther  Snow,  as  Eliza  R.  Snow;  Wanda  Pedersen,  as  Lot's  wife; 
Eunice  McGinnis,  as  Mary;  Arlene  Kirton,  as  Miriam;  Gwen  Shurtleff,  as  Sariah;  Sybil 
Noall,  as  Deborah;  Ruth  Cunningham,  as  Delilah. 
Standing,  rear,  center,  Lucy  T.  Anderson,  President,  Ensign  Stake  Relief  Society. 
Sister  Anderson  reports:  "An  original  birthday  party  program  'Reflection,'  honoring 
all  womankind,  with  special  emphasis  on  our  Latter-day  Saint  Relief  Society  leaders, 
was  presented  March  14,  1962.  An  imposing  gilt  mirror  reflected  the  images  of  out- 
standing women  from  the  past,  while  the  spoken  description  was  accompanied  by 
appropriate  organ  background  music.  An  outstanding  organ-piano  duet,  a  vocal  solo, 
and  a  song  by  a  trio  of  young  mothers  completed  the  program.  Immediately  following 
the  program,  was  a  special  birthday  luncheon  prepared  by  a  committee  of  visiting 
teachers  under  the  direction  of  Norma  Rees." 
683