[Vol49 | September 1962 | Sequence: 28 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
From Near and Far

For many years I have enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine, and now let me say an orchid to the June issue, with all the information pertaining to our organization's growth, previews of lessons for the coming year, poems, lovely pictures, recipes, the beautiful cover, the frontispiece poem on the Lion House, but loveliest of all is the tribute to our dear President McKay's lovely wife, Sister Emma Ray McKay. I think the picture of her at the age of sixteen is the most beautiful I have ever seen. Likewise, almost seventy years later, she is equally as beautiful. How grateful I am for Sister McKay and for the Magazine.
—Veatrice Poulson
Los Angeles, California

How I do enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. When the June issue arrived, I turned to the tribute to Sister McKay, with her picture at age sixteen on the opposite page. I don't think I have ever seen anything so beautiful, innocent, lovely, and sweet. It really touched me. Then I turned the page and there she was — just as lovely at eighty-four — kindness, love, and understanding radiating from her face. She is truly a wonderful woman, and we are proud of her as the companion of our good, kind, and great President McKay. I was also interested in the article "The Blessings of Family Unity," by Irene W. Buehner. They must be a wonderful family.
—Mae W. Cardon
Farmington, New Mexico

I turn first to the stories and poems in The Relief Society Magazine, but I enjoy also the articles, recipes, and lesson materials. What an economical way to receive a college education! And what a help to busy mothers in rearing their children.
—Uneva L. Workman
North Las Vegas, Nevada

My sister and I have been members of the Church for nearly two years, and have been receiving The Relief Society Magazine since the beginning of 1962. We wish to express our appreciation for the Magazine, with its beautiful covers. These covers give people who live so far away a feeling of almost being right there in that wonderful continent of America. We love this Magazine, with its heart-touching stories, inspiring lessons, beautiful poetry, and the wonderful testimonies that strengthen our own of this glorious gospel. Our branch here in Bulawayo is small, and it is wonderful to receive news through the Magazine about members living in America, and in other lands.
—Shirley and Charlotte Woolf
Bulawayo, Southern Rhodesia
South Africa

The Magazine is wonderful. The lessons on The Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants have been most helpful in studying the standard works of the Church. The other lessons are equally helpful, the stories and articles interesting and enjoyable. I love to read the poetry.
—Edna I. Hayes
Lorenzo, Idaho

The sisters in our Scottish-Irish Mission have been so happy and thrilled with our new Relief Society Magazine. I am so proud to hand it to our new sisters and explain that it is just one of our many lovely Church publications. Each time a new issue comes, I eagerly read and enjoy its contents. I have especially enjoyed Ilene H. Kingsbury's lovely stories, as she is an acquaintance of mine. I was very happy to read of Sister Hazel S. Cannon's appointment to the General Board. She, too, was a school friend of mine.
—Nada R. Brockbank
President Scottish-Irish Mission Relief Society