[Vol49 | September 1962 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Fiction | Title: Relief | Author: Nelson]
They wanted to do their best for Timothy, she knew, but they had so many problems with RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 a large family of small children. Timothy would never be a real part of that family, nor could he find there the comfort and fulfillment that was necessary to a boy who had met such misfortunes. "Mommy, I wish I had someone at home to play with me. I wish I had a brother." For a moment Allie looked at her child in surprise. She had not thought of Cindy being lonely, and she had tried always to hide her own loneliness from her. "Cindy, I wish...." Allie's words were cut off by a sudden thought. It so forcefully pressed upon her that for a moment she could not speak. David, oh, David, if you were only here to tell me what to do. If you were here, this wild, crazy idea I am having would be different. It would be all right with you to help, but I am only a woman with one little girl to care for. But, David, this boy needs someone. Someone to take time to love and help him. Sometimes it did seem that David had been so near that he could help her make decisions. "See, Mommy, there is Jeff Dawson and the Boy Scouts. They are on a field trip." Cindy clapped her hands excitedly as a bevy of quail scurried from the place where Jeff and about a dozen boys stood grouped about him. The _ birds scampered across the roadway in front of their car. Timothy should be with groups of boys like those, and with men like Jeff, Allie thought. He should have time to run through green meadows, to hear the singing of birds, and to climb the hills, and fish, and swim and play. It seemed that now the sight of Jeff Dawson PLEASE CALL ME TIMMY and these boys had made her know she must do something for 'Timothy. "Cindy, do you think it would be nice if Timothy came here to live with us? He could be like a brother to you." Allie spoke these words fearfully. What if the boy would not wish to come? "Oh, Mommy, I'd like Timmy." Intuitively, Cindy had spoken the name Timmy, just as a sister would call him. HAT night Allie poured thoughtfully over the words she was writing. It was a very important message; important to herself and to her own child, as well as to Timothy, and to his people who, in his dire need, had kindly taken him in. She must not let this be a mistake for all of them. The next day was Saturday. Allie was full of anxiety. Prayerfully she went about her morning tasks. She went to her bedroom alone and knelt by the side of her bed. "Heavenly Father, if Timothy comes to us, please make me a wise and good mother to him. Help him to love me, as I will love him." Cindy burst into the room hurriedly, calling, "Mommy, Mommy, here comes Mr. Parker, and Timmy is with him!" Allie could hardly breathe with the mingling of fearfulness and the 651 happiness she felt as she went to meet them. Cindy ran ahead of her and took Timothy by the hand. As they walked up the path together, Timothy was smiling and Cindy looked up into his face with beaming eyes. Now Allie knew that her fears that Timothy would not want to come were unfounded, and she saw also in the face of Hyrum Parker a look of gratefulness, even before she had talked to him. She knew now that Timothy's relatives did not consider her presumptive to make this request for their nephew. Later, she could talk with him about legal adoption. After Hyrum Parker had bade Timothy goodbye, she saw him turn away and brush tears from his eyes. For only a moment the boy's face clouded, then he said, "I'll come to see you often, Uncle Hyrum." Then, when Hyrum was out of sight, the boy turned to Allie. The bright light in his eyes spoke more than any words could have told her. He was glad to be here. "Timothy, we are glad to welcome you in our home, and hope you will be happy." Her eyes were moist as she spoke to him. "Won't you please call me Timmy?" he asked simply. "Yes, yes, and we love you, Timmy." Autumn Zara Sabin Thistle and goldenrod are lining the highways, Tall in the meadow the sunflowers glow, Spider-web lace mantles bushes and byways.... Soon it is time for the coming of snow. N AND THE Ricnts OF THE Women OF ALL Nations" — News Note SEPTEMBER On leaf and flower the sunlight lay After the close of g mild, delightfy] day — In softened beauty the landscape showed, bove the azure, below the green, And a mystic glory of light between,. - — Authors Magazine on to Hebron and met a few sisters _ '+ We had a nice meeting and went on to Sister ary A, Terry's ranch, where we were kindly cared for. We then went to Clover Valley and met with the Relief Society. 652 tet ee & See oe FF 88228 RS. EMILY SMITH STEWART, Salt Lake City, Utah, daughter of President George Albert Smith, has been awarded a bronze plaque for "outstanding contributions in the field of medical care.' 'The award was presented in June at a special meeting of the Utah Medical Association. Mrs. Stewart has spent much of her life as a volunteer worker in public organizations, having held many State and National posts with the National Foundation, and _ with other organizations devoted to raising the standard of medical care. ANY mothers find the Children's Bureau 106-page booklet Infant Care very helpful with their baby problems. Its advice is based on the experience of doctors, psychologists, nutritionists, nurses, and parents. Published first in 1914, it is continuously revised and brought up to date. A copy may be obtained by sending fifteen cents in coins (no stamps) to the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington 25, D. C.