LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in September. LESSON III. Genealogy and Art. Third Week in September. GENEALOGY. SURNAMES. A surname is a name sub-joined or added to the personal name. In other words, it is a family name. Surnames were not unknown in ancient times. The Romans had a personal name, then a family name, and then a tribal name. Hebrews also used surnames to some extent. Simon Barjonah was Simon of the tribe of Jonah. Like the personal name or Christian name, a surname is a means of identification for the individual. It is a family symbol, as it were. Simon may be one of ten thousand Hebrews. Simon Bar-jonah is one who belongs to the tribe or family of Jonah, and thus constitutes another means of identification, both for legal and social purposes. Surnames were not used in the modern sense until after the time of William the Conqueror. When he came over to England, with his horde of Norman adventurers and Barons, and conquered the Anglo-Saxon-Danish population, which had taken possession centuries before of the British Isles, William roughly seized the lands and properties of the Anglo-Saxons and quartered his nobles all over the land. Finding it necessary to secure these lands to their new owners by some surer means of identification, as well as to discover just how much landed property could be assessed in his new kingdom, William caused an extensive and minute survey of the kingdom to be made through heralds or Court agents which he sent out for that purpose. These heralds recorded their findings in what is known as the Domesday Book. The result of their records in this Book constitutes the very foundation of surname history for the English speaking peoples. "After the coronation of William no man could hold an acre by an ante-Norman title. All were obliged to obtain a deed from the king, and it was exceptional that a thegn of the time of King Edward should retain his possessions under King William. Dispossessed, he must sink to be tenant-farmer or a villein. The freeholder of his allodial land had become extinct, and a network of officials was cast over England, holding the people involved in its toils." The various owners of the manors and estates, both Saxon and Norman, found it necessary to designate themselves by a surname or added title beside their given or Christian names. As an illustration "At Christmas, 1171, Henry Courthose, son of Henry II., held his Court at Bayeux. It occurred to two Williams, the Seneschal of Brittany and the Governor of Normandy, to exclude from the outer hall every guest who was not named William, and they were able to admit 117 knights of that name, and this was in addition to the Williams who sat at table with the young king. It became necessary for men to assume some sort of surname in order to distinguish William from William, and John from John, hence there would be William White and William Brown. All kinds of whims, fancies, and circumstances, contribute to the making of surnames for the English speaking peoples. There were surnames taken from the father name and the mother name, from the castle and manor, from the village and the town. There were trade names and place names, nick and descriptive names, prefixes and suffixes. Add to all this the influx of Scandinavian names, of French names, especially with the Huguenot refugees, of Scottish and Irish names, and you have a confusion of surname sources that constitute almost a babel of unintelligible origins. If the genealogist, however, is to carry on his study and inquiry, back of 100 years, he must acquaint himself with the surname of his family on both the maternal and paternal sides. These surnames give vital clues to the history and origin of the family itself. We invite our students, therefore, to join in a study, not only of their own surnames, but also of the subject itself, so that we may become intelligent in our search for our ancestors. . What is a surname? 2. What can you say of Biblical surnames? 3. Who was William the Conqueror? (See English History.) 4. What do you know about the Domesday Book? 5. Who were the Angels? (See History or Encyclopedia.) 6. Who were the Saxons? 7. Who were the Jutes? 8. Who were the Danes, and how did they come into England? 9. How were surnames chosen? 10. Why is it necessary to have a name, or a surname? ? Note. All genealogical committees, both ward and stake, are urged to arrange for a beginners class in the study and practice of genealogy, with the opening of this season. The advanced lessons we are taking up this year will be arranged so that all the students can follow them with profit and pleasure, but every ward should have a working knowledge of preparing and keeping genealogical information, and there is no better way to do this than by having regular lessons given through the winter months in each ward for beginners. ART AND ARCHITECTURE. INDIAN SUMMER LANDSCAPE, SUNSET, AND TWILIGHT. Indian Summer comes to the Rocky Mountain states with its most beautiful of sunsets, followed by wonderful twilights. These last come far into October. With the approach of Indian Summer, nature begins her preparation for the harvest the fruit of the flower and the grain of the seed. Nature's coloring deepens as the days pass, and with a show of modesty, she envelopes her flamboyant tints, with a lovely haze, which she drapes about her like a veil of blue gauze. The effect is to mellow and blend together extravagant and perhaps inharmonious colors. It is at evening and at early morning that the autumn haze is most effective. September Walk. When you take your walk to study Indian Summer effects, arrange to come home by twilight. If it should be you go to the canyon or on the hills, you will get the full benefit of the fall sunset. Select the spot to visit, carefully. Take one viewpoint, and! ; 
 parison of foliage through the months of September, October, November and December. Study the change in foliage in (a) mass of color, (b) character of foliage, (c) change in line, (d) change in feeling. Observation. My friend's observation is keen in some directions. She sees every detail of each lady's dress at the stake conference. She could even include an inventory of the color, shape, and price (if they were purchased in her town) of shoes, gloves, hat, and hose. And yet my friend's observation is very limited in a vital way. I know she would pass unnoticed the first wild geranium that blooms against the old picket fence. My little daughter has mounted in a herbarium twenty-seven varieties of neighborhood weeds, which she can name with ease (common name). My friend knows only the common name of three of these specimens, the remaining twenty-four being entire strangers to her, though she has passed and repassed them every day for twenty-five years. Eyes for What? Did God give eyes merely to keep us from stumbling over impediments in the road, or did he expect us to take notice of things about us? I am thankful I had a mother who put her finger on the wild geranium, and named it; gave me a bunch of Shepherd's Purse with pink Sweet Williams, and said, "pretty." She showed me where the wild violets grew, and where to find the Indian Paint Brush, the Lark's spur, the Lady Slipper, and the Wild Sweet Peas. How I loved to hunt them Every year the family traveled to the "city" by team 160 miles, to visit grandparents. All the way our parents pointed out new, strange foliage, and the many tints and shades of color directed our sight to the different birds and wild fowl, and to their strange, though interesting, sounds. I picture to this day many of those beautiful scenes, creeks, camping places, patches of pine, and scrub cedar, stretches of wild rose hedges on river banks, flocks of migrating wild fowl, flying and at rest. At night we slept between great thick quilts with wool batting. We knew the meaning of constellation, and watched the stars and planets come out at night. We knew the coyote's call, the mud hen's rasping note. A new, strange bird call brought us all up with sharpened ears. Thank God for mothers that see! Pray that the unseeing may learn to love real beauty, and enjoy life's gladsome experiences. I pray that the art supervisors may be well chosen. There is always one woman in the town who knows all about growing things, and can tell us much, if she can be aroused to lend assistance. She will not think it a trouble to walk a block to obtain a!