[Vol52 | March 1965 | Page 198 | The Home | Sweaters Trimmed with Flowers | ]
[Sweaters Trimmed with Flowers]

But now we wanted to drive through the dales and over the moors to Gisburn and Settle, on the way to Ribblehead. The missionaries had walked to these more distant places. Near Skipton, Matthew and I suddenly left the main road, lonely as it was among the limestone crofts. I had seen a sign which pointed the way to Arncliffe, the birthplace of Nanny Longstroth. As the road grew' steeper and narrower, I asked a woman who was standing in a doorway, whether we could drive to Arncliffe. We could drive there, she doubtfully agreed, but we would have a terrible time coming doon the track. Reluctantly, we turned around. Suddenly I told myself that this was no way to do any kind of research. Again I put the question, but with a difference, and to another woman: "Can we drive to Edinburgh from Arncliffe?" "Oh, yes!" came the reply, in a high, clear Lancashire voice. "You'll need to open only about twelve gates as you drive through the crofts. You'll love it!"' I breathed love every foot of the way. I was fascinated by the sheep I brushed against as I was opening and closing the gates in 194 ows, Heather on Longridge Fell Meadow Street, Preston, England the stone walls. We left the Ribble at Pen-y-Ghent and drove over the tops to Littondale in the valley of the Wharfe. To us the farms now seemed extremely remote. The far-spaced stone houses, used today for storage, appeared almost deserted despite the flourishing fields. Not until evening did we reach Arncliffe on the Skirfare.

We went to the Falcon Inn in this historic village, homeplace of the Longstroths. With a feeling of deep gratitude for having shared the essence of remoteness and of beginnings in this lovely country, I fell silent, recalling the events of those early years and their significance in the missionary program of the Church. Since that earliest mission in 1837, thousands of converts of English heritage have joined the Church, and many of its devoted leaders throughout the world are of this ancestry. In England, today, there are five stakes: Leeds, Leicester, London, Manchester, and Sunderland; and six missions: British, Central British, North British, Northeast British, South British, - and Southwest British. Never in any of my travels can I hope to have names become places more vividly than did the towns we visited as Matthew and I made our way along the winding course of the Ribble, and finally to the moor of the Skirfare at whose foot is located the charming village of Arncliffe. Arncliffe, Home of the Longstroths The Author, Claire W. Noall, in the Foreground ia >- - TRANSPARENCY BY O. F.