[Vol26 | March 1939 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Days At Affleck]
Days At Harmony
By Gordon Burt Affleck
"MY beloved Emma—she that was my wife, even the wife of my youth, and the choice of my heart," thus wrote the Prophet Joseph of his wife, nearly seventeen years after he first met her at her father's home in Harmony, Pennsylvania. And, despite the numerous and untold hardships, constantly moving, hiding, fleeing ever westward and beyond her home, often alone and greatly inconvenienced; and even though there were those times when her patience "snapped" and in despair she "murmured," the record is quite clear that through it all there was a genuine mutual devotion between Emma and Joseph. This natural, personal affection for Joseph was engendered in Emma at Harmony, Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania and helped to carry her far in the path he was making. Of those early "days at Harmony" relatively little is known, but their significance can hardly be overestimated. Now, however, with the organization of a stake on the Atlantic seaboard, and with the annual Aaronic Priesthood pilgrimage from New York and the branches of the Eastern States Mission each May 15, it may not be an exaggeration to assume that "Harmony" will come into its own as a recognized landmark in the Church and Church history.*
But let us go back some years for a better understanding of Emma, her people and the place of her birth. The parents of Emma Hale were of revolutionary stock. Her father was fifth in a line from one John Hale (Heald) of Berwick-Upon Tweed in Northumberland, England. This John Heald was one of the "first settlers" of Concord, Massachusetts in 1635. His son Gershon was followed in turn by the grandson Samuel (Hail) Hale; Reuben, the son of Samuel, born at Oxford, Connecticut, served in the Revolutionary Army and on the twenty-ninth day of August, 1759, married Diantha Ward. Isaac Hale was the second son of this union, having been born at Waterbury, Connecticut, March 21, 1763. At the age of sixteen, Isaac did revolutionary service under Col. Ebenezer Allen. (A marker of the Sons of the American Revolution is now appropriately
*During the next year or two many members and friends of the Church will drive to the New York World's Fair. Surely they will want to make a tour of historical Church points along the way. For this reason it may not be amiss to note that as the settlements of frontier New York and Pennsylvania grew to the stature of "township," the names were often changed. So it was with Fayette, Seneca County, New York, and Harmony, Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania. The traveler will note that Fayette, the place where the Church was organized, is now called WATERLOO, and road maps show it at the junction of U. S. Route 20 and New York route 5, and between Geneva and Seneca Falls, New York. Harmony is now known as OAKLAND, just across from the town Susquehanna, on the north bank of the river, 23 miles southeast of Binghamton, New York, on Pennsylvania route No. 692.
150 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
placed on his grave in the old McKune graveyard in Oakland, Pennsylvania.) The tomb stone reads: "The body of Isaac Hale, the Hunter, like the cover of an old book, its contents torn out, and stripped of its lettering and gilding, lies here food for worms; yet the work itself shall not be lost, for it will, as he believed, appear once more in a new and more beautiful edition corrected and amended."
Isaac Hale had been to what was then the West. So with the desire to push into new country in his blood, and his natural aptitude as a hunter, he took Elizabeth Lewis, his new bride, together with her brother and the brother's bride, and moved from New England to Susquehanna County in the northeast of the State of Pennsylvania. Elizabeth Lewis, Emma's mother, came from an equally important new-world family; she represented the sixth generation from George Lewis and the New England Lewises. Elizabeth was born at Litchfield, Connecticut, November 17, 1767; married Isaac Hale, September 20, 1790, at Wells, Vermont.
THE Isaac Hales in Harmony became the parents of nine children, six boys and three girls. Emma, the seventh child, was born July 10, 1804, at Harmony. Very little is recorded about the early life of Emma, though one would be well within bounds to say that she was a "churched" young
SCENE AT OLD MINE DIGGINGS, HARMONY
lady, having been under the parental guidance of a mother who was "for fifty years a member of the Methodist Church". Emma could ride a horse and did so to advantage on several occasions; she was able to read and write quite well as was evidenced by her pleading letter to the governor of Illinois in behalf of Joseph at the time the extradition papers had been signed for the Prophet's transfer to Missouri; she was both versatile and cultured, tall and striking, but with a definite air of femininity. Nevertheless, she was in her twenty-third year when she married Joseph after a difficult courtship of some fourteen months.
Three major factors contributed to this difficulty. In the first place, Joseph's introduction to the Hales in 1825 was as a "money digger". He had "hired out" to Josiah Stoal to dig for Spanish treasure and came to Harmony to work with the other "hands" in the search for a silver mine. About a half or three-quarters of a mile to the east and north of the foundation remains of the old Hale house can be seen the sizable hole dug in the hillside, in what is now a pasture. After one hundred and thirteen years this pit is real evidence of real work as claimed by the Prophet. The venture was abandoned in about a month at the suggestion of Joseph. During this stay at Harmony, Joseph boarded at Isaac Hale's and, of course, met and fell in love with the daughter Emma. However, the name "money digger" attached itself to Joseph with no uncertainty and with it a repulse from Emma's parents.
