[Vol26 | March 1939 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Ward And Lyman]

Relief Society Ward And Branch Presidents
Counselor Amy Brown Lyman
AS we approach the birthday of Relief Society, let us offer a special tribute to the ward and branch presidents of the Organization—to those of the past who from the beginning and all down through the years have borne the chief burdens in the local units; and to those of today who are so willingly assuming these responsibilities.
The general supervisory work of the Relief Society is centered in general and stake governing boards, but the detail work, which is the real work of the Organization, is carried on in the wards and branches, which are the vital, pulsating units of the Society. It is here that membership is held; that the educational program is carried on; that the welfare work is done; that contributions are received for charitable purposes; that cooperative community work is done. Under the direction of the local president the needy are contacted and provided for; the sick are visited; the sad and discouraged are cheered; the sorrowful and mourning are comforted; the dead are lovingly and tenderly clothed for their last rest.
The responsibilities and requirements of the Relief Society president are many and exacting, but she assumes and carries them willingly. Her office makes great demands on her time, energy and ability. She is usually the busiest volunteer worker in the community. Her work is comparable in many respects to that of the bishop. She is called upon by night and by day for service. She should be broad in sympathy, tender of heart, charitable. She should possess wisdom and understanding, patience and tolerance, resourcefulness and executive ability. Above all else a president should have faith in God and a testimony of the Gospel.
Ward presidents are constantly challenged, but they are meeting the challenge bravely and successfully, as all who are acquainted with their work can testify. They have been important factors not only in charitable work, such as looking after the wants of the needy and sick, but also in constructive, preventive, community welfare. It would be as difficult to estimate the incalculable good they and their associates have accomplished in civic and community work as it would be to estimate what they have accomplished in the home and in the family. They have also helped materially in establishing the high standards which the Relief Society as an organization has attained, which are recognized both nationally and internationally.
As one travels both at home and abroad, it is interesting to observe the similarity in spirit and procedure to be found in all the local units throughout the Organization—whether in America, in Europe or in the Pacific Islands. Ward and branch presidents could be exchanged between countries as college professors are exchanged, and, providing there were no language difficulties, they could function effectively and efficiently. The president of either the North or South London branch, or of the Dublin branch, would be at home presiding over a Salt Lake City ward; or a president from a rural ward in Utah or Arizona could be exchanged with the president of the urban Washington, D. C., branch, and the work would go on smoothly. The training which the Organization gives helps its workers to be resourceful and self-reliant, and it teaches them to think independently. The spirit of the office and calling seems to come to those who are assigned to do the work and to give them the necessary insight, poise and understanding and the desire to accomplish.
THE history of the Society is replete with records of the deeds of ward presidents and their associates. It would take volumes to enumerate them. The following instance will illustrate the work:
A young doctor with his wife and two small sons left their home in Salt Lake City for a large eastern center where the doctor was to continue his medical training. The wife and children were to stop on the way to visit a relative who was teaching school in a near-by western state, while the father was to continue his journey. A few days after the mother and children arrived in the small country town, the baby boy of two years became violently ill. The diagnosis was scarlet fever, and the small community was greatly exercised and even terrified over the situation,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 157
As there was no hospital of any kind in the town, the mother and sick baby were isolated and quarantined in a small, empty house on the outskirts of the village, which had been hurriedly prepared for them. A trained nurse, who happened to be in the vicinity attending a chronic invalid, was permitted by the latter to go to the desperate mother, who had never witnessed serious illness before. In two days the baby passed on. The nurse now felt it her first duty to hurry back to her patient, and so left immediately, leaving the little mother alone with all that remained of her precious child.
Overcome with grief and almost blinded with tears, the mother walked about the room and finally to the front door. Her eyes followed the path down to the little gate where she saw two strangers standing—women they were. Who could they be? And why were they waiting there? One of them beckoned to her and, as she approached them, offered her warm, nourishing food. They told her they had come to remain near her until further necessary arrangements were made and completed, also that they desired to prepare the clothing for the child.
As the distracted mother looked into the faces of the speaker and her companion, she wondered if they were ordinary human beings, or if they were real angels sent directly from heaven to succor her in the hour of her greatest need. This Relief Society president and her counselor had each suffered the loss of a child and could sense in a measure the sorrow of the desolate and bereft mother. They felt sure
158 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the little one was safe and happy in heaven and quoted to her the words of the Savior: "Suffer little children, and forbid them not, to come unto me: for of such is the kingdom of heaven." (Matt. 19:14)
As the day wore on, the mother pondered over this great act of human service. Then she remembered vaguely something of Relief Society work in her home village, how even her own mother used to be away visiting homes and doing things for others. But this had never appealed to her as being work that was very important. Now she understood what it all meant, and in her sorrow she resolved that she would join and support and work for Relief Society throughout the remainder of her life. She would feel blessed indeed if ever opportunity came to her to give any degree of the comfort to others which had come to her from these devoted sisters in this strange community far from her home.
IN contemplating the work of the Relief Society president, we are not unmindful of the fact that she herself is greatly blessed in her labors; that while she gives she also receives. Her work may be regarded as a real opportunity personally for growth and development, as is the work of every other officer and member of Relief Society. Some women who have assumed the office with great timidity, fear and trembling have, with the responsibility, gained in strength, knowledge, ability and power. They have grown in sympathy, tenderness and understanding — those graces which are so inspiring and endearing. Because of their faith, humility and unselfishness the Lord has also blessed them abundantly. Thus, while a great portion of their energies have been consumed in activities that have helped others, the process has added to their own strength and culture, and their own personalities have been developed and enriched. 'Their lives and labors have verified the truth which was proclaimed by the Savior. In speaking to and instructing His _ apostles he said: "He that findeth his life shall lose it; and he that loseth his life for my sake shall find it." (Matt. 10:39) Let us salute these great women —our 1,918 ward and branch presidents—on this 97th birthday of the Organization. Let us extend to them our sincere love and deep appreciation, and say, "God bless these lovable, intelligent, self-sacrificing, generous ones who are true to their trust and to their convictions." They will be sanctified and richly rewarded by their sacrifice and unwearied effort in doing good.