Vol. V. MARCH, 1918. No. 3 All Israel Mourns the Death of Hyrum M. Smith Remember, O Remember the Seventeenth of March Israel has Produced a Host of Unusual Mothers Do YOU Knit for the Red Cross? See Our Patterns UTAH'S BEAUTIFUL "AMATRICE" STONE Genuine "Amatrice" differs from beautiful colors, no two stones being malachite, verascite, azurite, turquoise and other copper-stained stones as imitrice differs from the genuine diamond. Amatrice never fades, takes a fine polish, and has a wider range of alike. No more beautiful example of nature's handiwork were ever offered to lovers of refined jewelry. May we send you gratis a pamphlet describing more fully this Utah gem? McCONAHAY Salt Lake's Solid Gold Rings set with genuine Amatrice $6.00 to $12.50 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City Established 1877 Phone Was. 1370 STAR PRINTING CO. SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY L. D. S. GARMENTS LOOK FOR THIS LABEL IN THE NECK OF GARMENTS The Sign of The Sign of Comfort Quality \ GARMENTS If your leading dealer does not have the garments you desire, select your wants from this list and send order direct to us. We will prepay all postage to any part of the United States. Samples submitted upon request. Style Style 1 Unlabeled Special gauze wt. $1.25 75 Cotton, medium wt., bleached $2.25 15 Cotton, spring needle gauze, 90 Cotton, heavy wt., unbleached 2.50 bleached 1.50 100 Cotton, heavy wt., bleached.. 2.75 10 Cotton, light wt., unbleached 1.75 107 Merino wool, medium wt 3.00 3 Cotton, gauze wt., bleached.. 1.85 109 Merino wool, heavy weight.. 3.50 65 Cotton, light wt., bleached.. 2.25 305 Imported silk and wool, medium wt... 4.50 11 Mercerized, light wt., bleached 2.25 65 Merino wool, light wt., bleached 3.50 The only approved Garments made with wide flaps at back, button holes for better fastening down front, and set in shoulder pieces to prevent sleeves stretching. SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE 70 MAIN STREET, SALT LAKE CITY The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

CONTENTS MARCH, 1918. 
To President Joseph F. Smith, his family and all Mourners L. Lula Greene Richards 120
Apostle Hyrum M. Smith and Family Frontispiece
The Passing of Apostle Hyrum M. Smith Susa Young Gates 125
Dreamland (Poem) Laura Moench Jenkins 127
The Other Side Lucy May Green 128
Unusual Mothers 131
Suggestive Programs for Anniversary Day Morag 135
Integrity and Personal Loyalty Laura J. Adamson 138
Our Music Book 140
The St. George Temple (Poem) C. L. Walker 141
Patriotic Department Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams 144
Current Topics James H. Anderson 147
Home Science Department Janette A. Hyde 151
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 154
Food Poisoning J. E. Greaves 158
War Economy in Shoes Lillian H. Cannon 161
The Ship of Song Hazel S. Washburn 163
Editorial: Keep Your Eye on the Mark 164
Keep on Keeping on (Poem) Annie G. Lauritzen 165
Guide Lessons 166
The Magic of Song (Music) Mrs. Parley Nielson, Lucy May Green 182

ADVERTISERS:

AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE OF UTAH, Logan  
BAILEY & SONS, Seeds, Salt Lake City  
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 Main St., Salt Lake City  
DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple St., Salt Lake City  
DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books, and Stationery, Salt Lake City  
KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 55 Main, 260 State Streets, Salt Lake City  
MERCHANTS' BANK, Third South and Main Streets, Salt Lake City  
McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City  
PEMBROKE COMPANY, 22-24 East Broadway, Salt Lake City  
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 S. Main  
STAR PRINTING CO., 30 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City  
SANDERS, MRS. EMMA J., Florist, 278 So. Main St., Salt Lake City  
THOMAS STUDIO, Photographs, 44 Main Street, Salt Lake City  
TAYLOR, S. M. & CO., Undertakers, 251-257 E. First So. St., Salt Lake City  
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City  
Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City  

TO PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH, HIS FAMILY AND ALL MOURNERS.  
L. Lula Greene Richards.  

All Zion is with you in mourning,  
The heart of the people is stirred  
For Hyrum, with Truth's message burning,  
So suddenly called and transferred.  

His experience gives him great power  
In Truth for which martyrs have bled,  
And the Lord in this imminent hour  
Hath need of such men near the head.  

But Hyrum will often be near you  
To counsel and help you along.  
This knowledge must solace and cheer you  
And render you hopeful and strong.  

When you grieve he will grieve, but be joyous  
And count yourselves favored and blest;  
For nothing can stay or destroy us  
Whose souls in the Savior find rest.  

Praise God for the knowledge supernal  
Which helps us to reverently bow,  
We know Him, and have life eternal,  
Not only hereafter, but now!  

A continuous chain is this living  
On earth and in heaven above;  
Those who pass are to us ever giving  
Gifts laden with eternal love.  

APOSTLE HYRUM M. SMITH AND WIFE IDA BOWMAN SMITH  
Son, Joseph F., aged 19; daughters, Geraldine, aged 14; Margaret, aged 10; Macksene, aged 7 years.  

THE Relief Society Magazine  
Vol. V. MARCH, 1918. No. 3  

The Passing of Apostle Hyrum M. Smith.  
By Susa Young Gates.  

In the death of Elder Hyrum M. Smith, on January 23, 1918, there passed from this earth one of the great leaders in Israel who was also a well-nigh perfect son and ideal husband and father. Because of Elder Hyrum M. Smith's great prominence in the Church, as well as for the wonderful opportunities afforded him for noble development, his life and character stand out as a beacon for all men in this Church. Mothers might well seek to mould the characters of their sons upon this model; wives might wisely aim to imitate the virtues and charms of the wife of this able Apostle.  

Hyrum M. Smith is the eldest son of President Joseph F. Smith and the first born of his mother Edna. He was born into a sheltered home where both parents guarded their offspring with the rigid care and a loving solicitude surpassing all known precedents. He spent his childhood and youth in the glow of constant affection, and basked continually in the light of inspired guidance. From his youth up his mother followed his every footstep, taught him the principles of the gospel, inculcated the fear of the Lord in his soul, and helped him to overcome all youthful temptations, turning errors into experience and making of conquered temptation a bent circle of protection for the future guidance of his own children. His father's exquisite personal attention to each of his children focused itself in the pride and longing for the welfare of this his eldest son.  

Poverty was a spur to Hyrum's ambition. Stern duty won his keenest incentive. An apt student with quick mind, he absorbed learning and assimilated the education of life with passing efficiency. Matthias F. Cowley writes of him: "Hyrum grew up, developing to a marked degree the boundless love and impartial affection which he had been accustomed to see his father and mother mete out to their children, and his  

126 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.  

father to his wives. Until he left the paternal roof of his parents he would be visited by that ever-loving father who must still kiss him and tuck the covers snugly around him. Even today, whenever father and son meet, in the home, on the street, in the office, it matters not where, they meet with an affectionate and holy kiss. Hyrum was taught to love his home, and there he could always be found when no duty called him away."  

Married on the eve of his departure for Great Britain November 15, 1895 Hyrum found in his partner, Miss Ida Bowman of Ogden, his soul-mate in very truth. She was his complement and a helpmeet indeed for him; gifted with a sweet, engaging personality, amiable to a fault, she returned the ardor of his constant and pure affection in kind. Rarely hath Israel seen so perfect an example of marital devotion and constancy as this remarkable couple manifested from the first day of their betrothal to the day of his untimely death. No romance was ever written, no idyl ever conceived in the brain of poet which throbbed and pulsated with the charm and purity of heavenly love shown by this devoted pair of married lovers.  

When the Utah women went to Rome, in 1914, Sister Ida Smith accompanied the party from Liverpool. Before leaving her home she remarked to her husband that her motherly fears were concerned about her children whom she was leaving behind.  

"Be at peace," he replied, "for they shall never leave my sight while you are away," and he kept his word. Each day a letter arrived by post from him while his wife was in Rome, and on her birthday, which happened while she was there with us, a lovely basket of flowers came to her room, ordered by telegraph as her husband's greeting of that auspicious day. His letters, too sacred for curious eyes, breathed the tenderest solicitude possible for man to experience or express. As a son his devotion was no less marked and loyal. His mother and his father represented that which he might hope to find in his heavenly parents beyond the veil. In his dying hours he remarked that he was blessed indeed in such a wife and in such a father and mother. As his spirit was about to take its flight he told his watchers that he was weary and would rest. Told that his father had sent word that he must live, he roused himself momentarily and said firmly, "If father says I must live, then I must." Brother Hyrum M. Smith was ordained to the quorum of the Twelve Apostles October 24, 1901, and for sixteen years he exercised his calling with unselfish devotion and the sternest sense of duty. His missionary labors in Great Britain, during the outbreak of the war, permitted the exercise of his highest and best gifts. The sharp edges of his character were mellowed and tempered by the terrific blows of adversity and want which spread about his public ministry there in ever-widening circles. His keen sympathy with suffering and pain, with helpless children and want in any form stretched his heartstrings with quivering response in that maelstrom of war-torn Europe. He received with delight the initial offering of the Salt Lake Temple sisters, raised by his own honored mother, and later the munificent charity of the Church itself, amounting in all to tens of thousands of dollars. He and his wife distributed these amounts with impartial justice to every branch in the mission with as keen delight and as much personal happiness as marked any act of his life or ministry. Much may be learned from the study of the lives of our great leaders. We commend to our sisters everywhere a perusal of the labors and ministry of this great son of a greater father; and in the consideration of Elder Hyrum M. Smith forget not to incite a noble imitation in the breasts of your own children of his tender qualities as a loving son and devoted husband and a true and wise father to his children. All Israel mourns their own loss which perhaps is even greater than that of his sorrowing parents and his bereaved wife. May the sweet peace of heaven temper every grief and recompense Israel in the loss of this mighty leader.

DREAMLAND.

By Laura Moench Jenkins.

At midnight's holy hour, day's duty o'er,  
Through Phantom's sea, we speed to Dreamland's shore,  
O sacred Isle! The spirit's home so fair;  
How mortals seek thee, in that great Somewhere!  
Oh, we would fain unlock thy mysteries,  
Unveil them, for they are realities.  
On Dreamland's Isle, the loved and lost we meet;  
Their forms so dear, once more we fondly greet.  
Moments unfettered converse even to hold;  
Tales oft repeated tales before untold.  
Enshrouded ever in deepest mystery,  
Existing still in sweet reality.  
Bright daylight breaking, bids our spirits part,  
With no leave taking, silently each heart  
Wakes for its duty, lightened for its task;  
In light of Dreamland, through the day to bask.  
When will the hand unlock these mysteries,  
That gives to all these sweet realities.

The Other Side.

By Lucy May Green.

A soft, ethereal light illuminates a chamber on the land of departed spirits, where a sweet-faced woman was busily preparing for a brief return to earthland. Each day a company of spirits were allowed to visit the temples of earth, where earnest, unselfish souls performed ordinances of the Lord's house in behalf of their departed ancestors. Long and earnestly had Hannah prayed, and waited for this privilege, but ever and anon she had to stand quietly by while others were sent. When the last list of names was read, hers was among the number, and the day now dawning on earth was the time set. It was also her earthly birthday anniversary. No wonder Hannah was happy. Her pure face radiated joy and happiness, for had she not learned that he, the husband of her youth, and partner of her earth life was also to be there. She loved him tenderly and longed for his companionship, although for many years they had been separated.

She remembered with joy when the gospel was first made known to her, how eagerly she had accepted its truths. Many blessings had been hers, precious promises given, but to her lifelong sorrow, David, her husband, refused to receive the truth, nor would he allow their children to enter the fold. Her children—would the lessons taught in their infancy bear fruit? Or their promised blessings ever be realized? Hannah wondered as she prepared herself for the journey. The children were now men and women with families of their own. Could it be possible that some of them have accepted the truth? No word had been received to this effect, only that on this day now dawning, the ordinances of the house of the Lord would be performed for and in behalf of Hannah and David, and they had been granted the privilege of attending the ceremonies. Her preparations complete, Hannah was joined by her sisters Rhoda and Sophia, and clothed in their white robes and mantles, the three hastened to attend a little gathering for prayers and instruction before taking their journey. In his room in the prison house of those who had rejected the gospel on earth stood David, awaiting his call to visit the earthland. In mortality his life had been an honorable one, clean, honest and true, but his eyes had been closed to the beauties of the gospel. In vain had been the touching eloquence of the preachers of the word, nor had the patient, faithful, daily testimony of his gentle wife Hannah, power to convince him of the need of faith, repentance and baptism. Now apart from his loved companion, he had paid the penalty of his long indifference upon earth. Still he was but half convinced. Today, if he would receive it, his release would be brought about by one whose voice had been unheeded on earth, but whose loving administrations could reach behind the veil into the spirit world. The call was sounded for departure, and the little band, swiftly wending their way earthward soon joined a company of ministering angels whose hearts were also filled with a burning desire to assist their companions. Eagerly the band of invisible beings gathered in the assembly room of the temple, watched, listened, and joined in the prayers and promises, following the company, as the sacred mysteries were unfolded. There David's eyes were fixed upon the man who bore his own name for one day. He rejected his teachings and appeals on earth, now this good man was laboring to release David from his prison house. How happy Hannah was! Soon to be reunited with her husband and return home together. The days of separation were about over! It was all clearing now to David's vision. As the day wore on he saw principles and truths that he had never quite comprehended. "I believe! I repent!" he cried to his guide. "I accept the gospel." Thus prayed the now truly repentant David as the little party entered the last room, while their earthly representatives, instead of going on to the final sealing ordinance, turned aside and went below. Eagerly now pressed forward David and Hannah, but those officiating had left the sacred courts and the day's work was over. A veil of darkness seemed to cover the soul of the man, and out of the darkness came a voice which said, "Your time is not yet. Unto him that hath, it shall be given, but unto him that hath not, it shall be taken away even that which he hath." To the soul of the faithful Hannah a precious promise was given that in the own due time of the Lord their temple work should be completed through the labors of one of her granddaughters who would soon receive the truth. The return journey to the land of departed spirits was clouded for David and Hannah. They had received great blessings and their feet had been set in the way of advancement, but they still would be separated. "My punishment is just," mourned the man, as they bade farewell at the entrance of their new spirit home. "Pray for me, Hannah, that some time I may become worthy of you." "We will both pray, and continue in prayer, that in the Father's own time our spirits may again be united. That time will surely come, I know," returned Hannah. "Farewell until that day dawns," she continued, as with a lingering handclasp they separated.

Rudy, whom she married, and to this union were born ten children: Martha, James, Mary, Joseph, William, Charles, George, Ruth, David, and Sarah. All of these children have grown to manhood and womanhood, and are married and rearing families of their own. There are 45 grandchildren and 5 great-grandchildren. Mrs. Rudy has been a faithful worker in the Relief Society, serving as president of the Vernal Ward Relief Society for many years. She has also been active in the Primary and Sunday School organizations. Her life has been one of service and sacrifice, and she is loved and respected by all who know her.

Rudy, a transient school teacher whom she married. To this union were born ten children: Cornelia, Lloyd, Czar, Gala, Owen, Olive, Thelma and Delma (twins), LaRue, and Wanda. Wanda is now 11 years old. The children are all well, enjoying the best of health, being mentally and physically able to compete with their fellows and take their places among the best citizenship. Lloyd and Czar are both drafted. The latter is now in Camp Lewis. Contrary to the custom of today, all the children were born into the world with the services of midwives, it never being necessary to call a physician. One hundred and fifty dollars will easily cover all these expenses and subsequent medicines up to date. It must not be thought that the ways of the world were not laid bare nor understood. Many kindly disposed yet worldly and irreligious women went out of their way to explain how foolish she was to have so many children. It was even pointed out to her that it was a sin to bring so many children into her existing condition of poverty. She bravely, however, defended her course and spurned the unholy advice. She not only reared her seventeen children but she had in her care for four years, three of her son John's children, whose mother died, leaving a baby three months old, a boy, a little girl of two and another boy of four. This was done at a time when her body and mind really demanded rest and quiet, but she stoutly refused propositions to separate the children or allow them to be taken elsewhere. Mrs. Rudy is now living on their homestead near Ft. Duchesne, which is under development, with her husband and six children. She is doing all her own work, sewing and all, without any help other than that of her children who are attending school. She is strong and in good health, just now working strenuously to dress the children and get things ready for a visit, all by herself, to her daughter, LaPrele Hoeft, in San Francisco, California. She is a living witness to the false notion that childbearing lessens the vitality and shortens a woman's life. On the contrary, she insists it is the only safeguard against wrinkles and premature old age. Her advisers are almost withered away.

JESSIE McNIVEN TAGGART. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN, FIFTEEN LIVING.

Jessie McNiven Taggart was born Feb. 7, 1853, in Edinburgh, Scotland. Her mother, having accepted the gospel, emigrated to Utah in 1861, crossing the ocean in the ship Underwriter. The girl Jessie, was very, very sick on the ocean and several times she was at the point of death. President Charles W. Penrose was a passenger on the ship and said that this girl had an important mission to fill in the earth and promised she should live. She arrived in Salt Lake City in September, 1861, in Homer Duncan's company. The family moved to Morgan county, the same year and went through the hardships of the settlement of that valley. She was married to George H. Taggart, September 26, 1870, in the Endowment House, Salt Lake City. She is the mother of ten sons and six daughters all of whom have grown to man and womanhood except one son, who died when about twelve years of age. All are married except three sons, one of whom is now secretary of the Swiss and German mission at Basel, Switzerland. This splendid mother has fifty-seven grandchildren living. They are an exceptional family, all being gifted in music and singing. No deformed or weak children, or grandchildren, in this family, and all are active in the Church. She was a teacher in the first Relief Society organized in Morgan county. She was then fourteen years of age and has been a member from that time to the present, fifty years. She was counselor in the Cowley Society for a number of years and president for eight years. She is still an active Church worker and many sad hearts have been made lighter by her presence in the sick room or where death had entered and taken away some loved one.

ANNIE JENSEN FIELDS. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN.

Annie Jensen Fields, of Pleasant View, Weber county, Utah, was born in Pleasant Grove, Utah, April, 7, 1871. She was married to Jefferson Fields, in 1889, and is the mother of 16 children; three are dead and three are married. She is now 46 years old and quite well. Her ten unmarried children are all at home. Sister Fields lived in Idaho for three years; the remainder of her married life has been spent in Utah. She has never taken any part in Church affairs, and seldom attends Church.

In fact, she has never taken any part whatever in public life. MRS. ELIZABETH A. FARMER BUTTERFIELD. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. Elizabeth A. Farmer Butterfield was the daughter of James and Sarah Trussler Farmer. She was born October 17, 1848, in Rygate, England. She was married to Almon Butterfield, January 27, 1866, and is the mother of 16 children. At the present time she lives in Herriman, Utah.

OUR ANNIVERSARY. By Coral J. Black.

We meet again, this blessed and happy day,  
To place Love's laurels on the hallowed shrine  
Of those who opened fair Advancement's door  
To womankind, led by the hand Divine.  
Thrice blessed was he, our Prophet, brother, friend,  
Who looked with vision clear adown the years  
And saw the wondrous fruit of that small seed  
Fostered with love, and sanctified with tears.  
Thrice blessed those women who first trod the path  
Before whose intellect and faith our bondage fled,  
For thrice ten thousand women of today,  
With heart and spirit, follow where they led.  
Thrice blessed was she, endowed by Holy Love,  
Poet and bard fit queen of such a band  
Whose spirit, dauntless, rose to every task  
Nor quailed beneath the Adversary's hand.  
Thrice blessed be our President, whose snowy hair  
Shines like a halo round her dear sweet face,  
Pattern and guide for us to emulate:  
God grant she long may fill her wonted place.  
Then ever onward, upward, let us strive,  
United always, in our joys or tears,  
Remembering it was given us to lead  
Woman's triumphal march adown the years.

Suggestive Programs for Anniversary Day. MARCH 17, 1918. By Morag.

The seventeenth of March is an anniversary that should be celebrated throughout the world, wherever the Relief Society is organized. It is good to meet together on such occasions to commemorate in song and story and thanksgiving the wonderful day when the door was opened for women by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Wherever the celebration is held, whether in the home, the ward or the stake, let each active member of the Society see to it that she is responsible for the attendance of one or more friends or neighbors and let our slogan be this year, as it was given in early days, "Every virtuous woman, a Relief Society member."

PATRIOTIC CELEBRATION.

Hymn, "Oh, Jesus the Giver."  
Invocation.  
State song: "Utah We Love Thee."  
Roll Call.  
Extracts from first minutes.  
Brief report of year's work by president.  
Solo, "Keep the Home Fires Burning."  
Five minute talk on Conservation, with report of what your Society has done.  
Address on War Gardens for 1918.  
Song, "The New Freedom Song." (August, 1917, R. S. Magazine.)  
Address, "The Red Cross Work."  
Flag salute and oath: "I pledge allegiance to the Flag, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation indivisible, with liberty and justice for all."  
Song, "The Star-Spangled Banner."  
Let the secretary call for those to stand whose ancestors fought in:  
1. The Revolutionary War.  
2. The Crimean War.  
3. The Civil War.  
4. The Spanish-American War.  
5. Those who were Utah Pioneers.  
6. Those who were Handcart Pioneers.  
7. Those who were Members of the Relief Society in Nauvoo.  
Also find out:  
Who planted war gardens last year?  
Who will plant war gardens this year?  
Who have signed Hoover food cards?  
Who are Red Cross members?  
Who own Liberty Bonds or War Savings Certificates?  
Who have members of their families in the U. S. service?  
If refreshments are served, see that they conform to the Hoover standard.

Here is a novel entertainment for a Relief Society choir.

The invitation:  
The Relief Society choir of the Ward would like to invite you at a musical party to be held at (Time and Place). You will be entertained by

Music Program  
The Bells (and Belles)  
Ladies' Quartette "Bells of Aberdovey"  
Reading "The Bells" (Poe)  
Story "The Bells of Atri" (Longfellow)  
Piano "Chimes" selection  
Song "Those Evening Bells" (Girls in evening costume)  
Tableau "Those Morning Belles" (Same girls in work dresses)  
Story of Tableau.... The Goddess of Liberty  
"Liberty Bell"  
Tableau.... Belles of Long Ago (Music, "Sweet, Charming Bells")  
Tableau Scotch Belle (Music, "Blue Bells of Scotland")  
Tableau Convent Bells (Nun)  
Duet "List to the Convent Bells"  
Tableau.... Wedding Belle (Music, "Wedding March" Lohengrin)  
Tableau Belle of the Future (Baby)  
"Star-Spangled Banner (Tableau and Song)

SUGGESTIVE PROGRAMS.

HOME EVENING.

March 1 is the birthday of President Wilford Woodruff and his wife Emma Smith Woodruff. This month let us spend an hour in considering some of the wonderful achievements and missionary labors of this great leader in Israel, and of his faithful companion. Materials may be gathered from any Church history, while many homes contain Life of Wilford Woodruff, or Leaves From My Journal, autobiography.

Speak of his wonderful industry, his simple life, undaunted faith, his remarkable escapes from death, and achievements in the missionary field, his prophetic gifts and undaunted loyalty to the truth, etc., etc. Sister Woodruff will be remembered as a Utah pioneer, a member of the General Board of the Relief Society, for many years associated with Sister Bathsheba Smith as a temple worker, and as the president of the Granite Stake Relief Society. Her solid worth, her industry, her extreme humility, and unflinching fidelity to the work of the Lord, endeared her to all who associated with her. President Woodruff's favorite hymn was, "God Moves in a Mysterious Way."

BIBLE READING FOR MARCH  
First Epistle to the Corinthians.  
Second Epistle to the Corinthians.  
Galatians 1-3.  
One chapter each day.

GREETINGS.  
This office is in receipt of kindly greetings from Hilo, Hawaii, and from Cardston, Canada. Elder Russell Rossiter laboring in Hilo sends a charming calendar and booklet, while Elder Sterling Williams, counselor to Pres. E. J. Woods, sends a fine colored calendar.

Integrity and Personal Loyalty.  
Necessary Elements in Successful Organization.  
By Laura J. Adamson, President of Relief Society of the Boise Stake.

"Stern Daughter of the voice of God,  
O Duty, if that name thou love  
Who art a light to guide, a rod  
To check the erring, and reprove;  
Thou who art victory and law  
When empty terrors overawe;  
From vain temptations dost set free;  
And calm'st the weary strife of frail humanity."  
Wordsworth.

Certainly duty is a rod to check the erring; it sets people free from temptation and calms the strife of humanity. The rod is not one of force and coercion, but one of invitation, of persuasion, of assistance. Faithfulness to duty leads to dependableness, or integrity, a condition to be sought for and obtained in any organization which is active and complete and which meets with any measure of success. In the army and navy, attention to duty is a fundamental requirement. When Lord Nelson gave the command to his British associates he inspired their courage by assuring them that "England expects every man, this day, to do his duty." A sentinel who had fallen asleep in a grain field was awakened to see his general standing in his place, only to realize that he had sacrificed his right to the claim of military integrity. One of the biggest problems the business man encounters is to secure assistants in whom he can place implicit confidence; upon whom he can depend. If dependableness in the army and the navy, and in business, is a fundamental requirement, what can we say of its place in the church? Were the pioneers people who could be depended upon? Did they stand the test? Were they firm when events reached a crisis? The choicest characters in church history are those men and women who never faltered in the race of adversity, persecution or trial. They were true to a trust; they kept their word; they did their full duty, and because of these characteristics we revere their memories. We owe to such characters a full measure of gratitude for the very soil upon which we have planted our feet; for the opportunities we are afforded, and for many of the blessings we enjoy. No well laid plan can be successfully completed without the assistance of dependable persons. Results would not be obtained where the officers, detailed to perform their part, failed to discharge their obligation. It may be said that integrity usually begets personal loyalty. One of the essential characteristics of a successful business officer in a church organization is that of loyalty to his associates and to those by whom he has been chosen to act. If a church officer does not intend to stand by those who have chosen him, he will do himself a favor and his associates a kindness by presenting his resignation. The way would then be cleared to secure active cooperation and live interest from those who have both integrity and loyalty. Loyalty to constituted authority should be the slogan of all officers in the Boise stake. For it we will merit and receive appreciation from our leaders and inspire the best efforts of which that authority is capable. What could we ask more, officers members? Your loyalty to the authorities in an organization is evidence of your confidence. No loyal worker in the Church will neglect to perform the reasonable duties which may be imposed upon him. He will not shirk; he will not tire; he will not betray a trust. His course will be well defined. His work will be well performed and his attitude will be unquestioned.

When Porter Rockwell was imprisoned in Missouri, and while for weeks he suffered the indignities of a merciless prison guard, he was given the assurance that upon the delivery into custody of the Prophet Joseph Smith, wealth, money or position would be his, he answered with sublime loyalty, "I'll see you all in hell first, and then I won't." A loyal body of active officers forms an efficient working force. Such a body can lead out in social activities and can create a healthful community spirit; can be in the vanguard of child and community welfare; can induce a spirit of industry which will result in a full treasury for the organization; can stimulate a meeting attendance that will be encouraging; can heed and fully meet the demands for moral and intellectual betterment of the people among whom this directing force strives. Give to an organization such leadership and a moving force will be set up whose influence will be felt for good and whose work will vitalize the lives of those upon whom its influence is shed. I submit that dependableness is an essential characteristic of the soldier, the sailor, the man of business, the statesman, the private citizen and the humble church worker. Faithfulness to duty inculcates loyalty to constituted authority. Loyalty to coworkers is an evidence of confidence, it cements officers into an efficient working force whose influence radiates from center to circumference and whose endeavors result in the accomplishment of permanent good and final perfection. The foregoing article is one among several papers which were prepared upon individual assignment by the stake presidency and read before a convention of all stake officers, held in Boise, November 3, 1917. We heartily commend it to the careful consideration of the stake and ward officers of the Boise stake, for the inspiration which it breathes and for the soundness of argument and genuineness of the gospel spirit which it contains and which should fill (or find an abiding place in) the heart of every Latter-day Saint, especially the officers in the Church. It is desired that this be read in all officers' meetings in the Boise Stake. Presidency.

OUR MUSIC BOOK.

The General Board of the Relief Society have authorized Prof. Brigham Cecil Gates and Elder Edwin F. Parry, Jr., to prepare and publish suitable hymns and songs for our local meetings and for use in conferences. The collection will include many new hymns and songs by our best home composers while not neglecting entirely the classics and popular music of today. We are happy to extend this help to our faithful and deserving choirs and musicians. The selections will be classified in opening and closing choral numbers, solos, duets, trios, quartettes, choruses for women's voices, all within easy vocal range and chosen with especial fitness for Relief Society choir work.

The St. George Temple.

Lines composed for the 22nd Anniversary of the First Baptism, January 9, 1877, in the St. George Temple. Respectfully inscribed to Elder David H. Cannon, President of St. George Temple. [By Solicitation.]

Thrice welcome, Saints of latter days, To mingle words of prayer and praise, Who've met responsive to the call: Thrice welcome! Peace be unto all! Yes, welcome to this Holy Shrine! Welcome to tread its courts divine! Let joyous be the sacred tread Of all who labor for the dead. Yes, for the world was framed of God, 'Twas planned to build this blest abode, A House of holiness and peace; Where millions yet may gain release. No wonder that the realms on high Reverberated songs of joy, For anthems, grand in theme, were sung; The echoing worlds, glad praises rang! How grand the song Angelic Host! Praise Father, Son and Holy Ghost, And distant worlds caught the refrain, And chant His praise, again, again. And why these songs of joy so great, By those in pre-existent state? It was because they understood The offering of the Son of God. We favored few assembled here. The precious words of Christ did hear: "Here am I, send me," He cried; "Amen!" Celestial Hosts replied. He came, and as on earth He dwelt, He prayed, and to His Father knelt: "Thy will be done, O God in me. That I the captives may set free." And by His suffering on the cross, An ordinance vicarious, By which vast hosts in prison gloom Were freed from monster Death and Tomb. What made the Sons of God to shout, Who viewed salvation brought about By Christ the Lamb of God our Head? Free to the Living and the Dead. With eye prophetic they did gaze On temples built in latter days; They prophesied, on Zion's Land Thousands of temples yet would stand.

They saw the work immensely great,  
To be performed in this estate,  
For those who prayed, nor plead in vain,  
For Christ to break the captive's chain.  
He rose triumphant from the grave.  
With healing in His wings to save,  
Diffusing light through prison gloom,  
Proclaiming victory o'er the tomb.  
And shall we here, who hold the keys  
Grow careless oft, and take our ease?  
Whilst those with pitying accents pray  
"Oh God! Oh God! when is my day?"  
Then when we get behind the vail.  
And hear our kindred's broken wail,  
They'll meet us with reproachful looks.  
With unfilled blanks in temple books.  
No vain regrets, no lame excuse.  
The day is past, we can not use.  
Earth-life again, tho' brief, we'll crave.  
In earnest work our dead to save.  
'Tis awful when we meditate  
The harrowing thought, too late, too late!  
No grief, remorse, nor floods of tears  
Will then atone for mis-spent years.  
Then let us all fall into line.  
Make hay, while all is yet sunshine,  
Our life is short, not guaranteed;  
Then, while we live work for our dead.  

THE ST. GEORGE TEMPLE.  

Shall I relate to you a theme  
Of one who had a certain dream?  
He dreamed of opportunities well used,  
Of others he had oft enthused.  
He dreamed the records he had made  
Proceeding from a joyous throng,  
Who greeted him with tender care  
His home assured to mansions fair!  
He dreamed the Records he had made  
On Earth, while working for the dead,  
Were graved on diamond tablets bright,  
Above the brilliant noon-day light.  
The work, well done, I will ensure  
Will be accepted; yea, for sure  
'Tis sealed with Heaven's divinity,  
'Midst the archives of Eternity.  
And we shall be the favored ones.  
Inheriting those glorious thrones,  
By virtue of those blessings sealed  
Of God, to Joseph Smith revealed.  
The work is great, immense, sublime,  
There's millions waiting for the time  
When friends and relatives on Earth,  
Will bless them with baptismal birth.  
The time may come, as some supposed,  
When all the temples will be closed:  
For even now, men would engage  
The hosts of Hell, to vent their rage.  
What tho' through persecution rife,  
We're called to leave this chequered life.  
Sweet consolation God will give,  
Tho' dead, our temple work will live.  
God bless the Saints assembled here!  
Their friends and relatives most dear.  
God's blessings rest upon this shrine,  
And all engaged in work divine.  
And may we here, all live to see,  
God's power, and might, and majesty  
Displayed, his Kingdom, bringing forth  
"Good will to men, yea, peace on Earth!"  

C. L. Walker.  

By Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams.  

Liberty Stake.  

The sisters of the Liberty Stake are doing remarkably good work in the Red Cross activities. Some of the women who feel unable to do special Red Cross or surgical dressing work have volunteered to take care of other women's children while they are attending the classes. It is reported that they made 400 surgical dressings in one week.  

Woman Suffrage in Germany.  

The German women are clamoring for their civic liberties, in spite of the war conditions which have measurably silenced the otherwise restless German socialists. The women, however, refuse to be silenced and their new activities demand new civic liberties. It would be strange indeed if the German women brought about the collapse of the German military machine and dethroned the Kaiser. The women of France and England are in training for every possible labor and position which has been held during the ages by men only. The government recognizes the inevitable necessity for supplying the broken ranks of male workers with trained women, and with that end in view, both of these countries have opened schools to educate women in all lines of endeavor, while special places are provided for them to bring their children and have them cared for while the mothers are at work. What is the world coming to?  

Sleeveless Sweaters.  

In answer to a number of calls we give here the Red Cross directions for knitting the sleeveless sweater.  

Patriotic department.  

2 1/2 hanks of yarn (5 lb.)  
1 pair Red Cross needles, No. 3.  
Cast on 80 stitches.  
Knit 2, purl 2 stitches for 4 inches.  
Knit plain until sweater measures 25 inches.  
Knit 28 stitches, bind off 24 stitches for neck, loose.  
Knit 28 stitches.  
Knit 7 ridges on each shoulder, cast on 24 stitches.  
Knit plain for 21 inches.  
Purl 2, knit 2 stitches for 4 inches.  
Sew up sides, leaving 9 inches for armholes.  
2 rows single crochet around neck and 1 row single around the armholes.  

KELLY SOCIETY MAGAZINE.  

Resolutions of the General Board of the Relief Society.  

Whereas, We have learned that Christmas packages have been sent to the Utah soldiers containing playing-cards and tobacco, and Whereas, We the mothers and wives in the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have religious scruples against the use of stimulants, narcotics and the playing of cards. Whereas, We have trained our sons to avoid these demoralizing and degenerating practices; Therefore, be it resolved. That we do protest against this practice of sending tobacco and playing cards to our own soldier sons and brothers. And we hereby condemn such unwise expenditure of means in this time of war-economy. Emmeline B. Wells, President, Clarissa S. Williams, First Counselor, Julina L. Smith, Second Counselor. Relief Society. Mrs. Louie B. Felt, President, May Anderson, First Counselor, Clara W. Beebe, Second Counselor. Primary Association. Liberty Loan. So effective were the methods of the Utah Liberty Loan committees that the other states are falling in line with Utah's lead. But what is practicable here because of our splendid Church and Relief Society machinery will not be possible it is feared in other states where our people are not found. Interesting Casualty Estimate. Here are some interesting figures, based on data in possession of the military hospitals commission of Canada. Allowance should be made for the very heavy toll exacted from Canadians during the early stages of the war, when there was considerable blundering and also the handicap of fighting against almost overwhelming odds: The boy who goes to the front has twenty-nine chances to come home as against one that he will be killed. He has ninety-eight chances to recover from a wound as against two that he will die because of wounds received in battle. There is one chance in 500 that he will lose an arm or leg. It is also estimated that only one man dies from disease as against from ten to fifteen in other wars. Only 10 per cent of the Canadians disabled are rendered physically unfit to resume their former occupations. San Francisco Chronicle. Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. Two United States Senators died in January Senator Brady of Idaho and Newlands of Nevada. As women's pets in the United States, poodles are giving way to knitting needles, to good purpose. Mexico is considerably disturbed by native Indian uprisings there, occasional raids being made over into the United States. Earl Reading, lord chief justice of England and the newly appointed ambassador to the United States, is a Jew Rufus Isaacs. The selective draft law has been held to be constitutional, the United States Supreme Court passing on the question in January. Woman suffrage has become a factor in politics in Germany, with fair promise of being an important topic of public discussion. German girls are being enlisted to be trained by the government in both professional and household avocations, it was announced in January. Spain is having something of war on its own account, over 400 persons having been killed in suppressing the uprising in Catalonia alone, in January. Streetcar fares in and around Salt Lake City have been increased by the order of the public utilities commission, in some cases as much as 66 per cent. Alfalfa meal, or ground lucern stalks and leaves, is being used in bread in Chicago. Nebuchadnezzar ate grass, but it may have been milled differently. Moslem women in southeastern Russia are said to have abandoned the veils which have hidden female beauty there from the public gaze for centuries. 148 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Five days' embargo on industries in the United States was enforced in January, as a means of conserving the coal supply in the Eastern and Middle States. Finland has been recognized by other nations as one of the new governments growing out of dismembered Russia; but its term of independence is insecure. Japan has agreed to preserve the peace in east Russia and if necessary take a large slice of territory in furtherance of Japanese continental-empire ambitions. Numerous disastrous fires in the eastern part of the United States occurred in January. The government concedes these were the work of spies or anti-war agents. The constituent assembly recently elected in Russia was forcibly dissolved by the Bolsheviki the electors not having voted in the way to suit their new masters. Austria is greatly disturbed by strikes and other internal troubles, but these are likely to quiet down for a time when the spring season permits renewed war activities. Premier Lloyd George of Great Britain made specific announcement of the Entente allies' war aims, in January, and was followed in the same line by President Wilson, a few days later. Food-saving in 1918 may be preventive of intense and unsatisfied hunger in 1919 a hint that is not without evident necessity.

Yet Utah housewives have learned the lessons of economy long ago. Important among the war developments in January is the attitude of the socialistic and laboring forces in Germany and Austria, presaging the overthrow of the Hohenzollern and Hapsburg dynasties. The Italian front was materially improved to the Entente allies in January, by a brilliant and successful attack by French troops on the Austrians, who were forced to fall back from important positions. Equal suffragists won a victory in the United States House of Representatives on January 10, when the resolution to submit a constitutional amendment passed by a vote of 274 to 136—just enough to carry it. Pneumonia has been the cause of two-thirds of the deaths in the United States army thus far this winter. As it is claimed this was preventable, it is the chief reason for the accusation of incompetency made against the war department. A million bags of beet sugar in the west without a market, as announced by western producers in a dispatch to Washington the last week in January is a significant criticism on the national food administrator's assertion of a national shortage of sugar at present. Abe Majors, when 18 years of age, was convicted of murdering Captain Wm. A. Brown, of Ogden. Majors has served eighteen years in the State prison, and has been paroled to see if he can live a better life than he did before the commission of his crime. Ex-President Roosevelt went to Washington in the latter part of January, to use his influence in "speeding up the war" from his point of view. This caused the anti-Roosevelt newspapers to give place to much editorial comment angry beyond reason. Many wish the Colonel had been there earlier and all the time. Guatemala, capital of the republic of that name in Central America, was destroyed by a series of explosive earthquakes which occurred from Dec. 29 to Jan. 3, and about 1000 people were killed; the city and several adjoining villages were completely wrecked. The Utah federal food administrator recently made an order limiting the purchase of flour and sugar to inconveniently small quantities, at the same time admitting there was no shortage here; the direct effect of the order is to increase the cost to the consumer. John F. Stevens, head of the American railway commission to Russia, returned to this country in January; he reports that women in Russia are working in the shops and fields, and even as brakemen on the railways, and that where there is one woman working, there are 500 men loafing. Samuel Gompers, head of the American Federation of Labor, advocates a seven-hour day without reduced wages for the labor unions. The proposition does not sit well on the farming communities who are being urged to conserve time by longer working hours than now, to produce food for the others. Senator Chamberlain, Democratic chairman of the United States Senate military committee, wants a war council board to do the work in which he says that Secretary of War Baker has failed. Mr. Baker objects, and President Wilson upholds the latter official—all resulting in an unpleasant controversy at Washington. David Lloyd George, the British premier, did not wait to consult his nation's allies when the German Christmas peace offer proposed that Turkey should "remain intact" by keeping Palestine; he responded quickly and pointedly, "Palestine never will be returned to Turkey;" and the sentiment of Christianity said "Amen." In Turkish waters, in January, a British squadron drove the noted German raiders Goeben and Breslau—which had been converted into Turkish cruisers—into a mine field, where they were destroyed. In the same month, German submarines sank two British steamships in the Mediterranean, causing a loss of 718 lives. Turkey's refusal to adopt the German recommendation for a vigorous attempt to retake Jerusalem from the British is significant as indicating that the Turk has concluded to relinquish Palestine, and also foreshadows that the crest of the present great conflict has been reached and hereafter there will be a steady trend to the overthrow of the Teutonic allies in this war. Great Britain's policy in making campaigns against the Turks in Palestine and Mesopotamia as "distant theatres of war," instead of concentrating all her forces on the western front, was vigorously criticised by several English papers during the last week in January. Yet that policy is notably one of the most beneficial and providential for Britain that the war has developed. Home Science Department. By Janette A. Hyde. We feel that every loyal American citizen who wishes to serve his country must adopt, as far as practicable, the food regulations which the United States Food Administrator, Mr.

Herbert Hoover is trying to introduce to the American home. The lesson on cereals deals, at length, with this question. We are asked to stimulate the desire for the use of whole wheat. There is a flour now being milled which contains the whole wheat with its outside layer taken off. It is claimed by the millers that this flour is the first whole wheat product to be placed in Utah. Arrangements have been made with the Utah State Agricultural College, under the direction of the professor in the Home Economics Department, Miss Jean Cox, and found to contain all of the nutritive elements necessary in body and tissue building. This wheat will be known as "entire wheat" and will be cheaper to the consumer than any flour on the market today. This, in itself, makes it advisable to lay aside food prejudice. The people of our state have gone so far in the principle of loyalty to Hooverism that they are publishing a little book known as "Hooverized Recipes." We think this is a very commendable undertaking, and we hope that all of our sisters will buy and study this book and the food situation, that together we will win the war. Quoting Napoleon "My soldiers fought on their stomachs," we feel that the American soldier as also the soldiers of our Allies, must be well fed, in order to make ourselves safe from German militarism. Let us ask our boys to make the food sacrifice at home rather than make too much blood sacrifice on the battlefields. As a matter of plain, bold facts, we would all be healthier if we ate far less wheat bread. Wheat is rich in blood-making material and when the system is overloaded with it disease is sure to follow. Some scientists claim that an excessive wheat bread diet conduces to attacks of appendicitis, tonsillitis, and rheumatic troubles generally. So let us gladly cut down our bread rations. Great stress was placed upon this particular subject at the recent housekeepers' conference held at Logan. 

152 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. 

Following are recipes furnished by the Agricultural College experts: 

Breakfast Corn Cake. (Rich Corn Cake.) 
1 c. cornmeal. 
1 c. milk scalded. 
1 c. white flour. 
4 ts. baking powder. 
4 tbsp. melted fat. 
2 tbsp. sugar. 
1 ts. salt. 
1 egg. 

Scald cornmeal with milk. Let stand 5 minutes. Add sifted dry ingredients, beaten egg and fat. Beat well. Bake in oiled thin loaf pan or muffin pans. 

Whole Wheat Bread. 
2 sieves whole wheat flour. 
1 tbsp. salt. 
1 sieve white flour. 
½ c. fat or none. 
2 cups mashed potatoes. 
1 pt. milk scalded and cooled with 1 c. water. 
4 tbsp. molasses or sugar. 
2-3 c. "live yeast." 

Mix dry ingredients thoroughly. Add melted fat and liquids gradually and beat well with heavy spoon until it is smooth, and of a thick drop batter consistency. Scrape from sides of pan, cut down thoroughly, cover and let double in bulk. Knead well, mould, when double in bulk bake 1½ hours. The amount of water varies with the kind and age of flour. 

Rye Meal Bread. 
1 sieve rye meal. 
1 sieve whole wheat flour. 
½ sieve white flour. 
1 tbsp. salt. 
3 tbsp. sugar. 
3 tbsp. butter fat. 
1 qt. scalded milk. 
1 qt. boiled water, cooled. 
1 yeast cake or ½ pt. live yeast. 

Sift dry ingredients together, add sugar, salt, butter fat and yeast. Mix into a rather soft dough with milk and water; a few raisins or currants may be added to part of the dough, which makes a good cake substitute. 

HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 

153 Graham Biscuits. 
1 1-3 c. graham flour. 
4 tbsp. shortening. 
2-3 c. white flour. 
2 ts. sugar. 
4 ts. baking powder. 
1 ts. salt. 
Milk for soft dough. 

Sift dry ingredients, work in shortening with fingers. Add milk, toss lightly on flour board. Roll 1-3 in. thick, cut. Bake well. Quick breads more easily digested if well baked. 

Scalloped Macaroni (Meatless Day Dish). 
½ c. macaroni broken in inch pieces. 
2 qts. boiling water. 
1 tbsp. salt. 
2 c. milk. 
2 c. white sauce. 
2 tbsp. butter or butter substitute. 
4 tbsp. flour, seasoning. 
1-3 lb. grated cheese. 
½ c. buttered bread crumbs. 
2 tbsp. butter. 

Boil macaroni until tender. Drain (water may be used for mixing bread or put in soup). Alternate layers of macaroni and cheese and white sauce. Cover with buttered crumbs and bake in moderate oven until crumbs are brown. Serve with ketchup. Or this dish can be made without milk or white sauce, but with butter, cheese and a can of tomatoes (liquor poured off). Some use onions with macaroni. 

BUREAU OF EXCHANGE. 

Mr. Frank Welling of Garland, Utah, has a large quantity of Mexican Pinto beans, which he wishes to sell.

Anyone desiring to purchase these beans will do well to write Mr. Welling. Mrs. Cecelia Steed has twenty-five pounds of unpeeled peaches for sale. Persons wishing this fruit can secure same by writing Mrs. Steed at Farmington, Utah. We hope our readers will make use of the Free Bureau of Exchange. Mail to the Home Economics Department, lists of dried fruits or vegetables which you may have to dispose of. The daily papers are willing to cooperate with the Magazine in this proposition. Having a source through which surplus foods may be disposed of will give impetus to a greater food production this coming season.

Notes from the Field. By Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary.

New Stake Organized. The Montpelier stake, Idaho, was organized December 23, 1917. This stake was formed of twelve wards taken from the Bear Lake and Rich stakes. Edward C. Rich was named as President. The following are the Relief Society presidency and officers: President, Agnes Pearce; first counselor, Elizabeth Quayle; second counselor, Permillia Clark; secretary and treasurer, Mary J. Swensen; chorister, Angie Arnold; aides, Phebe Christie and Elizabeth Cook.

REORGANIZATIONS.

Eastern States Mission. Miss Elizabeth Thomas has been appointed President of the Relief Societies of the Eastern States Mission, succeeding Miss Margaret Edward. Miss Thomas is manifesting a great interest in her work and will no doubt maintain the high standard set by Miss Edward.

North Weber Stake. On account of her removal from Ogden, Mrs. Lucy A. Steers was honorably released from her position as President of the North Weber stake. The presiding authorities were very fortunate in being able to secure, for the position vacated by Mrs. Steers, the services of the former Stake President, Mrs. Georgina G. Marriott. Mrs. Marriott was appointed to this position on Thursday, January 24, 1918. The General Board is delighted to welcome Mrs. Marriott back into the ranks of stake officers.

Relief Society Veteran Called. Mrs. Marilla Miller Daniels passed away on January 27, at Provo, Utah. Mrs. Daniels was the daughter of Aaron Johnson, former bishop of Springville. She was born October 12, 1830, in Connecticut. Mrs. Daniels went to Nauvoo when a small girl where she became intimately acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith and wife, Emma. Mrs. Daniels was an active member of the Relief Society in Nauvoo and has continued a faithful and devoted member for over seventy years. She was formerly a member of the Stake Presidency of the old Utah stake, where she was thoroughly appreciated and greatly beloved. Mrs. Daniels was also prominently connected with woman suffrage and was a delegate to the twenty-seventh annual convention.

German Genealogy. The General Board is very pleased to announce the publication of a genealogical lesson book written in the German language. The book is entitled Genealogisches Aufgabenbuch und die Deutschen Familiennamen. It was translated, compiled and arranged by Mrs. Gertrude L. Baird, one of our earnest, energetic and devoted genealogical students. The book is divided into two parts. The first part is, with a few exceptions, a translation of "Lessons in Genealogy," published by the Genealogical Society of Utah. It includes also sample pages of the Family Record (for the living), as well as instructions on how to gather and record information in the Temple record, and sample pages of Temple sheets. It also includes a diagram, showing Relationship (page 20) and a diagrammed pedigree. The book contains an explanation of the German books in the library of the Utah Genealogical Society and of other printed German books. The experiences of our Swiss agents, Julius Billeter, Carl Nemelka, and Miss Marie Haselmann, who have done considerable research work in Germany, are described. The second part of the book tells of the origin and evolution of German names and gives a general surname history. It also includes a list of German names of old Virginia settlers, which were changed in this country. The book was commenced the latter part of March, 1917, and completed before August. Information was gathered mostly from the German books of the Genealogical Library (outside the translation), from research and actual experiences of the author, and from the series of lessons given under the direction of the Genealogical Society and the General Board of Relief Society. The money for printing the books was raised by a loan from two German sisters and from advanced subscriptions. One thousand copies have been printed; price 50 cents apiece, 55 cents postpaid. The books are sold at the Genealogical Society of Utah.

Cottonwood Stake. The Cottonwood stake Relief Society held their monthly officers' and teachers' meeting on Tuesday, January 29, 1918. There were 150 in attendance. Among the reports was that of Red Cross work.

In all of the wards of this stake, the women are holding all-day sessions every Tuesday. The forenoon is devoted entirely to sewing for the Red Cross and the afternoon to the regular meeting, where the lesson work is considered. Liberty Stake. A very interesting story comes from the Liberty stake, where a dear grandmother takes her knitting and goes regularly to the home of a young Relief Society woman to tend the babies and knit for the soldiers while the young mother goes to the Red Cross to make surgical dressings. Portneuf Stake. Mrs. Dicy W. Henderson, president of the Portneuf stake Relief Society, reports that the stake has arranged with the University of Idaho to have the University demonstrator, Miss Bullock, spend a month in the various wards of the Portneuf stake talking on Home Economics and demonstrating war foods. Tahitian Mission. One of the most interesting yearly reports received by the General Secretary is that from the Tahitian Mission, where Venus R. Rossiter is in charge of Relief Society work. The average attendance in this mission is almost two-thirds of the membership and is the best that has been reported so far this year. There are several unique items in the letter which are delightfully interesting. Mrs. Rossiter writes: "The work is progressing very nicely in this field. You will notice we have organized one more society since last report and have a steadily increasing membership. Also a marked increase in all activities. "The sisters have been very enthusiastic the past year making quilts and weaving hats and also diving for pearls to increase their funds. "Each society has bought a chest of medicine for the use of their respective branches, the ministration of which is under the supervision of the white elder in charge of the branch. "The native sisters were delighted to see their picture published in the Magazine, and were also very much pleased with your letter which I translated and read to them in our October conference." Report of the Relief Society of the Tahitian Mission for the year ending December 31, 1917: NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 157 Paid for charitable purposes $ 88.75 Days spent with the sick 177 Special visits to the sick 417 Families helped 23 Bodies prepared for burial 9 Burial clothing prepared 9 Number of visits by stake officers 48 Assistance to missionaries $ 84.00 Funds raised for special work 172.00 Money on hand 158.00 Membership Officers 17 Members 92 Total 109 Admitted to membership during the year 24 Removed or resigned 1 Died 4 Number of meetings held 213 Average attendance 70 Number of Relief Society organizations 5 New Zealand. President Emmeline B. Wells has just received a very interesting letter from Mrs. Annie Atkin in far away New Zealand. Mrs. Atkin writes that there are about 2,000 Maori Saints in this mission. She states that better tithe payers cannot be found in the Church than among this people. The Maori Agricultural College is about to open for a new term. Elder Welsh, who is particularly competent in teaching agriculture, will be the new president. The attendance at this school is usually seventy-five students, which is the accommodation limit of the College dormitory. The Relief Society in New Zealand is well organized in most of the branches, the women working along much the same lines as Relief Society members do at home. President Emmeline B. Wells' Birthday. In order to express the love and respect of all the members of the Relief Society, the General Board will hold a reception in honor of the ninetieth anniversary of the birth of President Emmeline B. Wells, at the Hotel Utah, Feb. 28, 1918. The general authorities of the Church, all Relief Society workers, and Mrs. Wells' friends will be the guests of the occasion. Food Poisoning. By J. E. Greaves, Ph. D. Poisoning may result from the use of foods which (1) naturally contain poisonous products; (2) those which are normally non-poisonous but which have been obtained from animals suffering with disease; (3) certain mineral poisons added either intentionally or accidentally to the food; (4) the occurrence of bacteria in food; (5) the production of poison in food by bacteria. The first group consists of naturally occurring plants and animals which are always poisonous or become so during certain seasons of the year. But fortunately while there are many such plants only a few are ever accidentally partaken of by man. By far the most common of these cases is due to the eating of the poisonous mushrooms (or "toadstools"). There was, however, the unfortunate occurrence in Utah about one year ago in which a whole family was poisoned with fatal results from the eating of greens which contained a poisonous plant.

The milk or flesh of animals suffering with certain diseases are continually being used as food without adequate cooking, the result being that thousands die each year from this cause. There is, however, no reason for belief that there is or will be any increase in the number of such cases due to the present food conditions of the country. But there is much to indicate that there may be an increase from the last three causes enumerated in the first paragraph if certain precautions are not taken. It is therefore pertinent that we inquire into (a) the foods and conditions under which poisoning is most likely to occur, (b) the cause of such poisoning, and (c) the methods by which this may be reduced to a minimum. Meat is so often the cause of poisoning that the terms "meat poisoning" and "food poisoning" have come to be almost used synonymously. Of meats, chicken and pork are more likely to cause poisoning than are meats from other animals, while the internal organs—liver and kidney—are more likely to contain disease-producing bacteria than are the muscular tissues. Sausages, hamburger steaks, meat pies, puddings and jellies are especially likely to cause food poisoning. This is probably due to the products from which they are made, the methods of treating, and the fact that the heat used in cooking such foods is not sufficient to kill the bacteria in the food. While there are a few cases on record where individuals have been poisoned by the eating of freshly well-cooked meats they are so rare as to be of little importance; the thorough cooking of meat greatly diminishes the likelihood of trouble. Various canned goods have been repeatedly accused of causing poisoning, but the cases in which this has occurred when the foods have been sterilized by the pressure method are extremely rare. And where it has caused trouble it is usually due to some metallic poison found in the cans and not to poisons developed in the food due to bacterial activity. Asparagus is often looked upon as one of the canned products most likely to cause poisoning. This is due in a large measure to the fact that asparagus takes up large quantities of tin, and some individuals are especially susceptible to this substance. The quantity of tin, and especially copper, which is taken up in most cases varies with the amount and kind of acid found in the fruit or vegetables. Moreover, when a low or poor grade of copper is used, it is more readily attacked by the fruits than are the pure compounds. Fortunately, when any considerable quantity of this product is taken up by the food it imparts to it a peculiar color which in the new glass jars with copper covers often shows a sharp contrast in color between the contents of the top and bottom of the jar, and should serve as a warning against its use. Fairly large quantities of copper have to be eaten before death results and it is doubtful whether many foods would dissolve sufficiently to result fatally. While a small quantity of one of the metallic poisons taken once may cause no ill effects, their use should be cautious, for their action is cumulative. Moreover, sanitarians insist that chemical substances likely to be irritating to the human tissues in assimilation or elimination should not be employed in food. Each new irritant, even in small quantities, may add to the burden of organs already weakened by age or previous harsh treatment. The great danger at the present time is from the use of the home-canned fruits and vegetables which have been put up by the cold-pack method, i.e., where the product has been simply cooked at the temperature of boiling water for a certain period. For it has been demonstrated that the temperature used is not sufficient to destroy the spores of organisms which may later develop in the substance and produce poisons, or, what is more often the case, the bacteria are eaten and they cause sickness and death. Moreover, toxins may develop in mediums such as green corn, artichokes, asparagus, apricots, and peaches to which no traces of animal protein has been added. We have then two forms of poisoning which may occur from the use of food preserved by the cold-pack method—the one due to the poison developed by the bacteria, the other to the bacteria. Some of these poisons which may be formed by bacteria are resistant to heat and may cause poisoning after thorough cooking, but it must be admitted that the number of such cases which do occur are extremely small.

The remedy then is as follows: When a can presents a convex appearance (technically called a "blown can"), or on opening a can a foul smelling gas escapes, it is a warning to the consumer and the contents should be destroyed and not fed to lower animals as there are many cases in which chickens and other animals have been killed by such products. At other times the products have a peculiar rancid odor resembling spoiled butter which becomes more pronounced on standing. Such vegetables should not be tasted, but destroyed. All vegetables which have been put up by the cold-pack method should be boiled before being eaten or even tasted and no such products should be served as salads until they have been cooked after removing from the container. The following of these simple precautions will prevent much food poisoning which would otherwise occur.

EATING AND DRINKING.

Extract from a discourse by President Brigham Young, April 6, 1868. See Journal of Discourses, Vol. 12, page 192, associated with a talk on the Word of Wisdom.

"A thorough reformation is needed in regard to our eating and drinking, and on this point I will freely express myself, and will be glad if the people will hear, believe and obey. If the people were willing to receive the true knowledge from heaven in regard to their diet they would cease eating swine's flesh. I know this as well as Moses knew it, and without putting it in a code of commandments. I tell you that it is the will of the Lord to cease eating swine's flesh."

War Economy in Shoes.

By Lillian H. Cannon.

In the last month's article economy in dress as a patriotic duty was emphasized. Practicing economy with so high a motive reacts directly on the character of the woman. It also teaches her to form the homely habit of economy for economy's sake; that nothing should be wasted and that all things should be put to their very best use. To practice economy we must buy the things that will last the longest, in order to leave as much material as possible for those who need it worse than we do. In the selection of shoes with the thought of war economy three things should be considered: comfort, beauty, and suitability.

The Relief Society woman is active. She is on her feet a great part of the day. It is necessary, then, that a large, comfortable shoe be worn if she is to get the greatest amount of wear from it. High heels are the style now, but women cannot wear them without bad effects. Backache, headache, tired feet and legs, and extreme nervousness, are results that come from their use. A shoe for comfort should be moderately loose. If the shoe pinches anywhere it is apt to be discarded long before it is worn out, or it produces corns and bunions. Patent leather is heating to the feet in summer and cooling in winter and is not so durable as leather. A woman who values comfort as well as her time will choose buttoned shoes instead of laced ones, and certainly will avoid high-topped shoes.

Beauty is closely allied to comfort in shoes. A woman hobbling along on painful feet, no matter how costly and stylish the cut of her shoes, is anything but a beautiful figure; but the woman who can put her feet down in ease and comfort has a certain grace of carriage. Black shoes are always the most economical ones to buy. They can be worn on any occasion and with any dress. They are kept clean and shining until the last possible expenditure of time and effort. Black sets forth the beauty of the small foot and hides the dimensions of the large one. Our girls now think they must have shoes to match the costume to some extent, but this fashion makes colored shoes, unless worn with suitable colored costumes, both poor taste and an extravagance. A person with large ankles should never choose a shoe with black bottoms and light colored tops. The light tops emphasize the sturdy dimensions. White shoes are beautiful with any costume, but are never economical, as they must be cleaned very often. They are not suitable, either for a woman over forty-five, unless worn with white dress in summer time. Gray shoes are charming with a gray suit or hat and gloves, and tan shoes with tan or brown costumes, if people are wealthy, and can afford these luxuries. Times have changed, of course, and what seemed to be unsuitable for a woman of fifty, twenty years ago, is adopted by her now with as much zest as by the young girl.

It is a beautiful thing "to keep young." It is more beautiful to keep youth in the heart and to grow old gracefully. We can't keep our bodies young no matter how hard we try. We have to grow old and we succeed only in making ourselves ridiculous when we wear the clothes of youth. The care of shoes bears almost as close a relation to economy as the selection of them. No woman who values the appearance of her shoes will wear her best ones about the house, for the Relief Society woman does her own housework and many other things. As soon as she comes into the house she will exchange her shoes for those she reserves for the house. No shoes can be kept in the best of condition if they are worn to sweep or scrub in. It is economy to have more than one pair of best shoes, if possible. If a woman wishes to look well she will keep her shoes in first-class condition, with regard to blacking, repairs, etc. Liquid blacking is injurious to leather, causing it to crack. Oiling or greasing leather shoes almost doubles their wearing properties. Even the soles of the shoes should be greased often. Shoes should be repaired before they are badly dilapidated. The best repairer that can be obtained is the cheapest one. Some cobblers have a manner of deforming the shoes in such a way that it is hard to wear them again. Try mending holes and soles with worn-out inner auto tires; anneal the rubber and stick it on. We must now retrench and conserve. The time may come when we will be glad to have shoes that are even worth mending.

GLOVES. What has been said in the talk on shoes, with regard to quality, holds good in reference to gloves. The best are the cheapest in the end. It is more necessary that gloves should match the costume than that shoes should do so. Even black gloves do not look as well with any other colored suit as they do with black. White gloves look well with any costume, but are not very economical. White kid gloves kept for special occasions for the average woman can be cleaned at home with gasoline. On account of its inflammability it must be used out of doors. The gloves should be drawn on the hands and washed in a basin of gasoline, using a clean white rag in the process. They should be hung out of doors for six or eight hours that the odor may be dispelled. In summer white cotton or silk gloves are economical as they may be washed and dried a few minutes before they are used. They also wear well. Kid gloves will wear a long time if they are kept in repair. Cotton thread should be used to sew them. Cotton thread of all colors for mending rips in gloves can be obtained from the notion counters for a few cents. The finest of needles should be used in order that the kid may not be torn. A woman usually appears well dressed and aristocratic if she has good shoes and good gloves, kept in good condition. Nothing, however, will detract more from the appearance of an otherwise well-dressed woman than run-over heels or untidy gloves. Most of our readers will class gloves as an unnecessary luxury, now, yet, when worn they deserve care and attention.

THE SHIP OF SONG. By Hazel S. Washburn. Have you heard of the wonderful "Ship of Song," O mothers, with manifold worries? With her bulwarks of "patience" firm and strong And her cargo of "sunshine" she carries? Sure the wind ne'er so adverse and strong But she somehow weathered through it, And never the task so hard and long But she somehow managed to do it. Her pilot is "Home" her captain "Goodcheer. And on "blue tides" she'll never tarry, And not a passenger with a "grouch" ever known But ever a sunny magic spell Seems to follow the good ship's wake, And never a wave of "worry" or "doubt" O'er her prow of "Faith" can break. When the way is hard and the waves roll high And threaten to overwhelm, Then the Master takes the helm. Far better a song from a voice that's cracked Than a harsh tone, For the "Ship of Song" leaves no regrets When the sun of life goes down.

EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs.

Amy Brown Lyman  
General Secretary  
Mrs. Susa Young Gates  
Corresponding Secretary  
Mrs. Emma A. Empey  
Treasurer  
Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon  
Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas  
Miss Sarah McLelland  
Dr. Romania B. Penrose  
Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings  
Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon  
Mrs. Emily S. Richards  
Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox  
Mrs. Janette A. Hyde  
Mrs. Tulia P. M. Farnsworth  
Mrs. Rebecca Nibaur Nibley  
Miss Sarah Eddington  
Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie  
Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune  
Miss Lillian Cameron  
Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry  
Miss Edna May Davis  
Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director  
Miss Edna Coray, Organist  

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE  
Editor Susa Young Gates  
Business Manager Janette A. Hyde  
Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman  
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah  

Vol. V. MARCH, 1918. No.  

KEEP YOUR EYE ON THE MARK.  

When the ancient archers trooped forth to try  
their skill with taut-drawn bows and feather-  
tipped arrows, they were charged sternly by the  
Captain of their host: "Keep your eyes on the mark!"  
They were to look neither to the right nor to the left,  
to allow no soft allurements, no confused motives,  
no internal or external irritation to interfere with  
the steadiness of gaze and the fixity of alignment.  
Keep your eye on the mark, was their watchword.  

In the olden days of this people's history,  
the pulpits rang with stern advice to the  
Saints in Kirtland, in Nauvoo, in Winter  
Quarters, across the trackless plains, and in the  
dreary forbidding vales of Utah: Saints, keep your  
eye on the mark! Let no worldly voices, no  
contention about you, no selfish striving within,  
blind your eyes or dull your souls. Keep your  
eye on the mark!  

So now in the midst of wild and confusing  
issues, worldly plaudits and fierce personal  
desires and ambitions, we mothers and wives in  
Israel must constantly cry out aloud,  

EDITORIAL. 165  

"Keep your eyes on the mark!" There is only  
one mark for us—the mark of perfection in Christ  
Jesus, according to His own revealed plan. Love,  
meekness, unselfishness, and above and beyond  
every other striving, obedience to the priesthood  
in whatever rank of life we live and struggle!  
This is our mark.  

What are the motives of those who cry in the  
market places, lo here, and lo there. Here, follow  
my plan and war will cease. Help in this, join in  
that, and thus win the war. There is a voice, a  
still, small voice that sounds not in the thunders  
of war nor in the pelting rain of pitiless personal  
ambition; in the stillness of the night whispers  
that Voice: "Come, follow me!" Help me to save  
souls—on missions—in the sacred temple courts—  
at the altar of birth—in the ranks of consecrated  
war where panoplied with pure lives and holy  
motives—building Zion and strengthening her  
stakes—"Come, follow me, ye pure in heart, for  
ye shall see God!" Are we keeping our eyes on  
this mark?  

KEEP ON KEEPING ON.  

I was weary of bearing my heavy load,  
I was worn with my burden of care.  
So long had I trudged on life's dreary road,  
I abandoned myself to despair.  
I was faint and weak and weary,  
My courage and strength seemed gone,  
When a precious message came to me.  
That said, "Just keep on keeping on."  

In an instant my cares all vanished,  
I was filled with faith and joy,  
I decided to "keep on keeping on,"  
Regardless of ills that annoy.  
Though life's skies, at times, seem dreary,  
I drive care away with my song.  
Go "cast on the Lord thy burdens,"  
And "keep on, keep on keeping on."  

Annie G. Lauritzen.  

Guide Lessons.  

LESSON I. Theology and Testimony.  
First Week in April.  

PROPHECY AND THE BOOK OF MORMON  

The present crisis has turned the  
light on much ancient prophecy. However  
significant predictions from the Bible or the  
Doctrine and Covenants may be at this time, it is  
safe to say no word of prophecy has in it more of  
hope and comfort from the standpoint of our  
national life, than the prophecy found in 2 Nephi  
10:10-14:  

"But behold, this land, saith God, shall be a  
land of thine inheritance, and the Gentiles shall  
be blessed upon this land.  

"And this land shall be a land of liberty unto  
the Gentiles, and there shall be no kings upon the  
land, who shall raise up unto the Gentiles.  

"And he that fighteth against Zion shall perish,  
saith God.  

"For he that raiseth up a king against me shall  
perish, for I.

the Lord, the King of heaven, will be their King, and I will be a light unto them forever, that hear my words." Germany's attempt at world-wide domination is not the first attempt threatening the Republican forms of government of the New World. During the 60's, Maximilian, the Austrian archduke, brother of the late Francis Joseph, of Austria, inspired and supported by Napoleon III of France, accepted an imperial crown and set up a government in the City of Mexico. Mexico had become involved with Great Britain, France and Spain in relation to the treatment of their subjects and the payment of certain claims. In order to get proper redress these nations landed a military and naval force in Vera Cruz. Secretary Seward warned them on behalf of the United States against any attempt to acquire territory, which warning France saw fit to treat with contempt; thereby causing the withdrawal of Great Britain and Spain. France dared to strive for the acquisition of territory because the United States was then in the throes of her civil war. However, the termination of the war, making it possible for the United States to stand back of any demand she might make, Secretary Seward sent the following dispatch to John Biglow, American minister to France. The date of the dispatch is December 16, 1865: "It has been the President's purpose that France should be respectfully informed upon two points, namely: "First. That the United States earnestly desire to continue to cultivate sincere friendship with France. "Second. That this policy would be brought into imminent jeopardy unless France could deem it consistent with her interest and honor to desist from the prosecution of armed intervention in Mexico to overthrow the domestic Republican form of government existing there, and to establish upon its ruins a monarchy which has been attempted to be inaugurated in the capital of the country." Maximilian had landed at Vera Cruz on the 28th of May, 1864. From the very outset he found himself involved in difficulties of the most serious kind, which, in 1866, made apparent to almost every one outside of Mexico that he should abdicate. The United States had made its demands sufficiently plain to the Emperor of the French that he had withdrawn his army, thereby leaving Maximilian in the most precarious position possible. Nevertheless, moving the seat of government from the City of Mexico to Queretaro, he resisted the Mexican forces for several weeks. On the 15th of May, 1867, he attempted an escape through the enemy's line. He was arrested before he could carry out his resolution, and after trial by court martial was condemned to death. The sentence was carried into effect June 19, 1867. His beautiful queen, Charlotte, daughter of the Belgian King, Leopold I, had wandered from court to court trying to get aid for her husband. At last she broke down under the strain, becoming insane. Many forces seem to have been at work to fulfill God's glorious promise to the Gentiles of this land. The Monroe Doctrine of which we have heard so much in recent years has played its part. No one can estimate how strong the British navy has been to this end. It is quite certain that before the outbreak of the present war, Germany sought the co-operation of Great Britain, that they might jointly enter Mexico. For Germany to attempt such a thing alone, would have been absurd, with the British navy to reckon with. To attempt such a thing in co-operation with any other European nation or nations would have been equally useless with the British navy in their path. How sure are the prophecies of God, how complete their fulfillment! The prophecies in the Book of Mormon concerning the coming of the Savior Himself are clear as a stream of living water. Indeed the whole Book of Mormon is like the people it represents without guile, simple, direct and vividly personal. Reference to the Savior's mother is given, city of her residence, the name of Jesus, the new star which should appear, His baptism at the hands of John and His complete life and mission. These are all prophesied of in the most simple and clearest manner. When the great oriental scholar and lecturer, Mme. Mountford, was reading the Book of Mormon, she immediately called attention to the dream of Nephi, "And I beheld the city of Nazareth, and in the city of Nazareth I beheld a virgin, and she was exceedingly fair and white. * * * And he said unto me, Behold the virgin whom thou seest, is the mother of the Son of God, after the manner of the flesh" (I Nephi 11:13, 19).

"No one but a profound eastern scholar or an inspired man would have said that, for oriental women always dress according to their social condition. A virgin wears one style of clothing, a married woman another style, and a widow still another. An imposter would not have dared to make such a statement, so your Prophet Joseph Smith must have been a scholar or an inspired man," she added. Still another marvelous prophecy given in that precious book is the prophecy concerning the choice of the Prophet Joseph Smith, the coming forth of the Book of Mormon and the work which the Prophet would do in behalf of the seed of Nephi and Lehi. We learn through this that the Prophet Joseph Smith is a direct descendant of Joseph who was sold into Egypt, through his father Joseph Smith, Sr., and therefore, he is of the royal blood of Ephraim and Joseph. How precious is that blood, and yet it was spilled in Carthage jail. The prophecy follows: "For Joseph truly testified, saying: A seer shall the Lord my God raise up, who shall be a choice seer unto the fruit of my loins. "And his name shall be called after me; and it shall be after the name of his father. And he shall be like unto me; for the thing which the Lord shall bring forth by his hand, by the power of the Lord shall bring my people unto salvation; "Yea, thus prophesied Joseph, I am sure of this thing, even as I am sure of the promise of Moses; for the Lord hath said unto me, I will preserve thy seed for ever" (II Nephi 3:6-16).

(Note: When class leaders or organizations feel the need of and can afford to buy supplementary books to these Book of Mormon studies, there are several splendid books which have our hearty commendation. Mrs. Elizabeth Cannon Porter's charming stories from Cities of the Sun deals with Book of Mormon times, GUIDE LESSONS. 169 and characters. While Lew Wallace's Fair God is full of historical suggestions taken bodily from Prescott's Conquest of Peru, regarding Indian customs and their traditions of a fair God.)

QUESTIONS.

1. Why is the prophecy contained in II Nephi 10:10-14, especially encouraging from the standpoint of our national life?
2. In what way was the Republican government of Mexico threatened?
3. Who was then Emperor of France; and what relation was he to Napoleon the great?
4. What persons were once styled Emperor and Empress of Mexico? What misfortune overtook these persons?
5. In what way did this fulfil the Book of Mormon prophecy quoted in this lesson?
6. Who was Secretary Seward? What President was then at the White House?
7. Give the gist of the dispatch that Secretary Seward sent to John Biglow, American minister to France.
8. What is the Monroe Doctrine?
9. How has the British navy protected America from nations with imperialistic designs?
10. Show how the Monroe Doctrine, Secretary Seward's dispatch to John Biglow, and the British navy have all worked together to fulfil an important prophecy of the Book of Mormon.
11. What prophecies can you quote concerning the advent of the Savior in Jerusalem and on this continent?
12. What can you tell concerning the vision of Nephi?
13. What is a seer?
14. What was the title of the Prophet Joseph Smith?
15. How did he fulfil his office and calling?

LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in April.

LESSON III. Genealogy. Third Week in April.

HISTORY BEGINNINGS IN EUROPE.

We have considered in our first three lessons of this year the probable origin of the Teutonic or Germanic races, and their descent from Noah's son Japheth. Most modern historians agree with this idea, others think Shem was their ancestor. But we know, from modern revelations that the blood of Israel is certainly scattered through the various races and tribes which inhabited central and northern Europe. Let us now consider the condition of Europe at the time of the Christian Era. The great nations of Assyria, Babylonia, Egypt, Media, and Persia had risen each chiefly on the ruins of the preceding nation, conquered, filled "the earth," and declined, most of them, into decay and forgetfulness by the time of the Christian Era, or a few years preceding it.

Rome. Just before the Christian Era, Rome became the ruling power of western and southern Europe. The Romans themselves (Gentile or Japhetic people) had conquered the Grecians; both of these, Greeks and Romans, descended from Ion or Javan, son of Japheth. The peoples of Spain, Media, Italy, Greece, these were all Japhetic tribes.

(Smith's History, pages 59-60.) Rome was invaded by the barbarian Teutonic tribes in the fifth century, but remained essentially Roman, as the superior Gentile civilization dominated the Teutonic influences, more particularly in Italy, Spain and Greece. Christian Era. There is practically no European history except Roman history until the Christian Era. Roughly speaking the Romans ruled the civilized world at the opening of that period. The various Teutonic barbarians, called by various names as they separated and inhabited various parts of northern and central Europe, inhabited central Europe from the Rhine river to the Vistula and were heard of first about 500 B.C., about one century after the Ten Tribes had traveled from Media into the "North Country," while the Celts lived in Great Britain and the western coasts of Europe. (See map.) All of these Teutonic peoples quickly scattered and again were intermingled by marriage and business association. Caesar invaded central Europe in 113 B.C. and was defeated. Wars followed between the Teutons and Romans for a century. Finally, in 55 A.D. Caesar passed the Rhine, routed the Germans and went on his victorious way to Great Britain. This event gradually changed the whole continent, and eventually supplanted barbarian laws and customs through trade and victorious social customs. The Roman generals made extensive use of German soldiers, which also tended to spread Roman customs and intelligence. It will be interesting to trace the European tribes briefly.

GUIDE LESSONS. 171

THE NORTHERN EUROPEAN RACES.

The Celts. Celts overran the central and western part of Europe in the dawn of European history (i.e. the first century of our era) and settled in Gaul, now France, Switzerland and Great Britain. They were a mixed people as evidenced by their differing complexions and characteristics. One branch were dark with broad faces, broad, heavy noses, hazel-gray eyes and light chestnut hair. These were thick set and of medium height, with round, bullet-shaped heads. The other branch were distinguished by long faces, long heads, narrow aquiline noses, brown eyes and very light hair: these were tall and muscular, in fact, their characteristics resemble very much the Teutons and Scandinavians. Britons, Picts and Scots. In Great Britain the Celts were subdivided into Britons, who settled in Wales and into Picts and Scots who first settled in Ireland and then went over into Scotland. The Celts found an inferior savage race inhabiting Great Britain when they first took possession. The characteristics of the fair-haired Celts resembled greatly the Teutonic peoples in that they were fearless, reckless in battle, rude in speech and manner, but with a high sense of honor and a marked respect for women and children. They were pagans and worshiped with human sacrifices; trees were their temples, and they believed in and worshiped both male and female deities. The Gauls were a branch of the Celtic race, while an invasion by them of northern Italy five hundred years B.C. left them in Italy to harass and distress the powerful Romans for centuries. Of a separation of the Celts from the other Aryans or Indo-Europeans, and their early migrations to western Europe, no record has come down, the stories of Milesian colonies in Ireland, and migrations from Troy into Wales, being simply monkish fiction. The Huns who later overran parts of western Europe were of Asiatic, Tartar, or perhaps Mongolian stock, akin to the Scythians and Turks. These fierce marauders overran Europe in early centuries. They were almost black of skin with broad shoulders, flat noses and small black eyes buried in their heads; almost destitute of beards they had a ferocious expression and were devoid of all graces. These were the enemies of the Goths and Visi-Goths.

THE TEUTONS. The Teutonic race which crowded out and finally obliterated or absorbed the Celts everywhere may be subdivided into the 172 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Scandinavians, Ostro-Goths and Visi-Goths who were sometimes called Germans or Saxons, the Angles, and the Franks. In short, all the dwellers of northern Europe except part of the Russians, the Poles and Turks are included in the Teutonic races. Before the Christian Era these tribes were at fierce war with each other in all the countries of northern Europe. The Norsemen, dwelling in the Scandinavian peninsula, were sea pirates and preyed upon the more peaceful agricultural inhabitants in the Germanic and English seaport towns and villages. The Ostro-Goths and Visi-Goths ravaged all of northern Europe, finally entering Italy and Spain conquering as they went. The Goths. Visi-Goths were western Goths, Ostro Goths were eastern Goths, and all belonged to the Teutonic race. Some writers ascribe them to the Scandinavian and some to the Germanic branches of the Teutons.

They inhabited central Europe during the first century of the Christian Era and fought gloriously and indiscriminately with each other, the Romans, and with their sworn enemies, the cruel Huns. They were all Pagans, but became converted to Christianity in the fourth century after Christ. Scandinavian Subdivisions. The Scandinavians who settled in the northern peninsula by force of battle are called Danes, Swedes, and Norwegians. The difference in the character in these three peoples is very marked to one familiar with the races, but certain common characteristics unite them all. To these Scandinavian races must be added the inhabitants of Iceland and Finland. Geologists place the beginning of life upon the Scandinavian peninsula back in the early stone age when, it is said, they were cave men and savages, but so indeed were all the early European inhabitants. Coming up through the bronze age and then the iron age, historians are not quite sure but what another race of people came in to form the Viking age. The Teutonic race is placed in its beginnings at 5,000 B.C., but that is only guess work as to dates. Certain it is that by the Christian Era the Scandinavian race as such, had conquered and inhabited the greater portion of Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Russia. German Subdivision. The Germans or Saxons who occupied in the early Christian Era all that country north of the Rhine and Danube are a branch of the Teutonic race. The Germanic peoples' history really begins with Caesar's invasion of Gaul, 59 B.C., which is exactly the same time that British and Teutonic or Germanic history rises out of the mists of antiquity. We find no reason in these historical facts to doubt the idea GUIDE LESSONS. 173 given in our first lesson that the Teutons were in part descended from the Ten Tribes of Israel. In ancient times the River Rhine divided the Gauls and Germans. (Germanii originally denoted certain Celtic tribes which had conquered the earlier savage races.) By the year 286 A.D., the Goths and Franks had founded kingdoms within the Roman Empire. In the sixth century the Franks, Frisians, Saxons and Bavarians were still struggling with each other and with the surrounding tribes. Charlemagne's Reign. By 486 A.D., however, the Franks under their great leader Clovis succeeded in defeating the Roman general and in establishing France as a separate and distinct monarchy; and from that time their history is separated from the German nation. Angles and Saxons. The Teutonic tribes of the lower Elbe and Weser on the continent that is, the Angles and Saxons as well as the Jutes themselves dwelt in fierce tribal conflict with each other before joining in various attacks upon the British Isles. The Saxons were a fierce, uncivilized race of pagan belief, and like their associates, maintained the virtues of honor, chastity and truthfulness as a part of their common heritage. The Jutes or Danes. The Jutes came from the central portion of Denmark and like the other Scandinavian tribes they were a fierce piratical race, but like all other Teutons they had great personal worth their free, independent spirit, their unbounded capacity for growth, for culture and for accomplishment made of them an adaptable people. Northmen, Norsemen, Scandinavians are different names applied in a general way to the early inhabitants of Denmark, Norway and Sweden. For the reason that those making settlement in England came for the most part from Denmark, the term Danes is often used with the same wide application by the English writers. Those people formed the northern branch of the Teutonic family. "For the first eight centuries of our era the Norsemen are practically hidden from our view in their remote northern home; but towards the end of the eighth century their black piratical crafts are to be seen creeping along the coasts of Britain, Ireland, and Gaul, and even venturing far up the inlet and creeks. Soon all the shores of the countries visited were dotted with their stations and settlements. With a foothold once secured, fresh bands came, and the stations in time grew into permanent colonies. These marauding expeditions and colonizing enterprises did not cease till late in the eleventh century. 174 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "The most noteworthy characteristics of these Northmen is the readiness with which they laid aside their own manners, habits, ideas, and institutions, and adopted those of the country in which they established themselves.

'In Russia they become Russians; in France, Frenchmen; in Italy, Italians; in England, Englishmen.' "The conquerors of Britain belonged to three Teutonic tribes, the Angles, Saxons, and Jutes; but among the Celts they all passed under the name of Saxons, and among themselves, after they began to draw together into a single nation, under that of Angles, whence the name England (Angle-land)." The Normans. The Normans who later came into Europe were transformed Scandinavians who had settled in northern Gaul, as France was called at that time. The history of the Normans is simply a continuation of the story of the Northmen. The Northmen began to make piratical descents upon the coast of Gaul before the end of the reign of Charlemagne. The great king had been dead only thirty years when these sea rovers ascended the Seine and sacked Paris (845 A. D.). Charles the Simple granted to Rollo, the leader of the Northmen who had settled at Rouen, a large section of country in the north of Gaul, upon condition of homage and conversion. In a short time the newcomers had adopted the language, the manners, and the religion of the French, and had caught much of their vivacity and impressiveness, without, however, any loss of their own native virtues. The transformation in them we may conceive as being recorded in their transformed name Northmen becoming softened into Norman. The establishment of a Scandinavian settlement in Gaul proved a momentous matter, not only for the history of the French people, but for the history of European civilization as well. This Norse factor was destined to be one of the most important of all those various racial elements which on the soil of the old Gaul blended to create the richly dowered French nation. For many of the most romantic passages of her history France is indebted to the adventurous spirit of the descendants of these wild rovers of the sea. The knights of Normandy lent an added splendor to French knighthood, and helped greatly to make France the heart of chivalry and the center of the crusading movement of the eleventh and twelfth centuries. Nor was the influence of the incoming of the Scandinavian race felt upon French history alone. Normandy became the point of departure of enterprises that had deep and lasting consequences for Europe at large. These undertakings had for their arena England and the Mediterranean lands.

GUIDE LESSONS. 175

TURKS AND ARABS. The Turks who became a European nation in the seventh century are not of the same tribe as the Arabs who occupied Arabia in Asia. The Turks are probably of Tartar origin, so conceded by modern writers, while the Tartars are of Mongolian origin. The Arabs, when of pure descent, are descended from Abraham through Ishmael and occupied the Arabian peninsula from the earliest known time. The line runs back in this way: Nahor; Terah; Abram (by Hagar); Ishmael; Nebajoth (and his sister Bashemath, who married Esau); Kedar, Abdeel; Mibsam; Mishma; Dumah; Massah, Hadar; Tema; Jetur; Naphish; Kedemah; the 12 princes of the Ishmaelite and other Arabs who dwelt east of the Israelites and Edomites (Gen. 25:13). There are two races of Arabs. One, the nomads or Bedouins, who are wanderers and often marauders. These are descended from both Ishmael and Esau, and are called Edomites and Amalekites. The fiercer tribes of Moabites and Ammonites found in Arabia were descended from Lot by his two daughters. The city dwelling Arabs, the southern Arabs, are descended from Shem through Joktan.

JEWS. The Jews all through the centuries quietly entered into every nation, never assimilating very greatly, never losing racial characteristics and always more or less isolated, and often persecuted, but they persisted. Unable to remain in their own land they drifted out into every country of Europe while they partook largely of the characteristics of the nation and people amongst whom they settled; so that we have German Jews, Russian Jews, Italian Jews, and English Jews all of them are Jews. No matter how individuals might disobey the cardinal racial principles concerning intermarriage with aliens, the Jewish race always remained dominant in characteristic and noticeable in feature. Yet, of course, environment did something for this chosen and singular people. The Jews in England as elsewhere retained their own racial and religious habits which included their nomenclature, unless compelled by law of the nation wherein they dwelt to do otherwise. Thus we have at the beginning of the Christian Era in Europe, the Slavs and the Scandinavians in Russia; the Franks or Gauls in France; the Germanii around the Rhine; the Huns and Tartars in the Asiatic borders; and the Celtic races, divided

176 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

up into Britons, Scots and Picts in England, as well as various tribes of them scattered in Northern and Eastern Europe down to Northern Italy; while the Romans and Latins ruled in Italy, Greece and Spain. All Europe beyond the Pyrenees was pagan in religion, inhabited by fierce and warring tribes of the Teutonic races, yet ready for the gradual introduction of Christianity through varying circumstances and events which gradually prepared the way.

QUESTIONS. What can you say of Rome and the Christian Era? Who were the Celts? Where did the Britons and Scots settle? What about the Teutons and Germanii? Who are the Scandinavians? What about the Normans? What is the difference between the Turks and the Arabs? Where did the Jews settle? Note. The class should have a good map of Europe.

LESSON IV. Home Economics. Fourth Week in April.

CEREALS. Cereals and the various products made from grains, are one of the most important foods for man. In the United States the value of flour and grist mill products is estimated to be $883,000,000, while bread and other bakery products not including home made bread is estimated at $396,000,000 per year. The value of cereal breakfast foods alone goes into the millions. In the patent office at Washington there are registered upwards of 500 different kinds of breakfast foods. With such endless variety one need not tire of any one kind even if cereal is used every day of the year, although no housewife would care to clutter her shelves with too great a variety which might become infested with parasites.

Cereals have been defined as grasses, the grains of which are used for food. A grain is a kernel containing a relatively small germ, rich in protein and fat, and a relatively large endosperm containing much starch, little fat, some cellulose, and a moderate amount of protein. A fibrous covering commonly called bran, protects the inside of the kernel. The bran consists of several layers, the inner layer is rich in protein, phosphorous, calcium, and iron compounds of much value in nutrition. In addition to these there is also found the growth producing or vitamine content which is so valuable in children's food. Therefore a highly milled product from which has been removed anything but the outer layer of bran is a direct food loss to man. One objection commonly raised against milled whole grain products is that fat in the germ decreases the keeping qualities. This, however, is not an insurmountable difficulty. In view of the above facts, housekeepers should gladly cooperate with Mr. Hoover and support the millers who must produce the maximum amount of flour or other mill products out of every bushel of grain. Look upon the preparation of new foods which is really a return to pioneer methods and cookery, as a delightful experience which you mentally taste when you hear or read about them and then later get the maximum pleasure from eating the new-old dish.

Application of Heat to Cereals. All housekeepers should realize that the application of either dry or moist heat to starch, if prolonged for any length of time, carries on a process of digestion. This should be sufficient argument for well cooked cereals and breads. It should be considered bad planning which necessitates the serving of cereals which haven't been cooked from two to six hours and bread that has not been baked for one and a half hours in individual loaf pans and for a longer period where the loaves are massed in one dripping pan. Poorly cooked starchy foods have been the direct cause of many cases of chronic indigestion, or have produced many cases of dyspepsia and resultant "family jars." The reasons for cooking cereals are: 1. Softens the cellulose. 2. Bursts the starch grain. 3. Increases palatability. 4. Carries on a process of digestion if prolonged.

The average composition of the cereals and cereal products in most common use are shown in the following table from the United States Department of Agriculture, Bulletin No. 28:

178 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

Food Water % Protein % Fat % Carbohydrate % Ash % Food Value per pound
Bread (Graham) 8.9 11.8 1.6 75.1 1.4 1189
" (White homemade) 9.1 9.1 1.2 78.2 1.4 1199
" (Whole wheat) 9.7 13.1 1.9 73.3 1.38 1133
Corn Meal 9.2 9.9 1.9 75.4 1.4 1620
Crackers, soda 8.3 9.8 9.1 73.1 1.9 1879
Flour, Rye 6.8 11.4 .9 78.7 .9 1590
" Wheat med.

10.5 1.4 75.1 .6 1610 Hominy 8.3 .9 79.1 .6 1609 Macaroni 13.4 1.1 74.1 .9 1625 Oatmeal 16.1 7.2 67.5 1.9 1811 Rice 8.0 .3 79.0 .3 1591 Shredded wheat 10.5 1.7 77.9 1.4 1660 Wheat, cracked 11.1 1.7 75.5 1.7 1635 Zwieback 9.8 10.9 5.9 73.5 .9 1915

THE COOKING OF CEREALS (TABULAR SUMMARY).

Cereal Cereal Cup Water Cups Salt Tsp. Time Served with

1 C. rolled oats 2 1 1-3 hrs. Cream, sugar 1 C. coarse oatmeal 4 1 3 hrs. or apple sauce Baked apples in milk, more 2-5 hrs. Dates 1 C. corn meal 4-6 1 Bananas 1 C. granular cereal 4-6 1 Honey 1 C. rice 2 8 1 30-90 min. Syrup 1/2-2 hrs. Jams

For flavor and appearance. Add cereals slowly to boiling, salted liquid. Boil until it thickens, Finish cooking in double boiler, or set pan on asbestos mat or on iron ring on back of stove to prevent burning.

GUIDE LESSONS. 179

CONSERVATION OF CHILD LIFE

Throughout the earlier phases of civilization human life was held in small account. There was little or no fear of death, and the sacrifice of life was readily made or demanded for reasons which appear to modern minds trivial, cruel, and purposeless. And if the worth of adult life was thus lightly esteemed, child life was still less regarded. Among the Greeks and Romans full power was vested in the father to decree the immediate death of his children at birth if no addition was desired to the family; or, if a tender infant were likely to cause inconvenience to the household; or, if it were a girl, and, for this reason, held to be merely a useless source of expense and trouble. Then the ancients learned the vicious lessons of "birth-control" which godless people are even now trying to spread abroad in every nation.

That the rate of mortality among young children throughout the ages has been very high, is confirmed by all the records of the past, as these become increasingly available: widespread ignorance of their needs, gross mismanagement, painful severity of discipline, premature and exacting work, careless, even intentional, exposure to the "common" infectious illnesses, so specially fatal in the first ten years of life, are causes responsible for much suffering and many premature deaths. Yet, is the civilization of today very materially ahead of those responsible for these conditions in the past? Take this country, for instance. Attention has been already called to the annual loss of 600,000 potential citizens before or very shortly after their birth; a second fact, little if any more creditable to existing conditions is this: of fifteen million children in the public schools of the United States, ten million are in immediate need of medical or surgical assistance: and, even were this skill placed at their service without delay, these children can never possess the full vitality or capacity for resistance to adverse conditions or disease which would have been the case had their strength never been taxed by the ailments nine tenths of which are wholly preventable.

What is essential to healthful childhood? In the first place, healthy parents; hence the stress laid today upon the right of children to be well born. What is done to train our young men and girls to consider their far reaching responsibility when they assume the dignity of parenthood? What is taught them at the time when their mutual attractions of man and maid are strongest as to the deadly results of the racial poisons (alcohol, or venereal diseases)? What applications are made of sufficient force to counteract rising emotions on the subject of transmitted tendencies to nervous instability or tuberculosis? Yet these considerations are fundamental to healthful offspring.

180 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

In a recent report published by the Russell Sage Foundation the statement is made that 37.5 per cent of all the preventable deaths in this country at all ages are due to some form of tuberculosis, but that another 34 per cent are deaths of infants due to the equally preventable causes of diarrhoea and bronchopneumonia. If the first figures are startling, the second are appalling; for the conditions under which babies live under two years of age are actually more controllable than at any other age period. Ignorance, inertia, carelessness, supreme selfishness are primary causes for this grievous wastage, one and all inexcusable in the 20th century. A common cold may produce very severe symptoms in a baby, even death, and so undeveloped is the power of resistance to everyday forms of bacteria that a high rate of infant mortality is usual where bad housing, overcrowding, and poor sanitation aggravate ignorance.

Yet, in 1916-17, the infant death-rate for England and Wales was only 92 per thousand births, at a time when doctors and nurses were very hard to get and millions of mothers had to "do their bit" in factory, dockyard, and field; in the same year the corresponding rate in Baltimore was 214 per thousand. The chief reason lay in the careful instruction given over several years in the 700 Schools for Mothers scattered over Great Britain and in the skilled supervision of trained visitors (not trained nurses). Perhaps also, the war necessity for the simplest and plainest food helped some. The Russell Sage Foundation Report ("Relative Values in Public Health Work") already quoted, further states that 30.5 per cent of all preventable deaths in the United States are due to the four contagious diseases of children, measles, scarlet fever, whooping cough, and diphtheria; please note the use of the word "preventable." The resisting power against such infective diseases is poorly developed under ten or twelve years of age, and even where the child recovers, it will carry scars of greater or less severity throughout its life. Not necessarily "scars" such as result from bad cuts or burns, diseased glands (though the latter are not uncommon), but such scars as deafness or defective eyesight, lung or heart delicacy, kidney susceptibility, nervous debility in its myriad forms, or even arrested mental development. Many a child which has learned to walk will lose the power during an attack of measles or a bout of whooping cough; many a boy or girl full of promise in early childhood will struggle through diphtheria to be numbered ever after among the "dullards" of school and college; the brain development of a child of twelve may be seriously, even permanently, checked by a severe attack of scarlet fever; or, when the stress of puberty, maternity, or business catastrophe, falls on the subject of these maladies in after GUIDE LESSONS. 181 years, the nervous system may bend or even break. Whereas, had it never been subjected to these poisons, a magnificent capacity to resist strain would have been the happy lot of its possessor. In the third place, the needs of childhood must be so "ground into" the public mind, and a health conscience must be so cultivated, that public opinion will stand behind the existing minority in their efforts to secure to each human soul the physical and moral conditions essential to its normal development prenatal as well as postnatal. The fact is inadequately grasped that in return for the advantages, the protection, the freedom, of a great Republic, each unit of its vast population carries weighty obligation and is morally bound to contribute, each according to his ability, to the prosperity, strength and progress of this nation. Such return is not usually possible till after middle life; certainly for the first twenty years each citizen is an investment, not a lucrative asset to his commonwealth. Consequently it is the bounden duty of parents to bear their children, naturally and normally, then to rear their families to a vigorous maturity; otherwise their fellow citizens may justly reproach them as a source of weakness, not of strength, to the population. To enumerate the needs of children is surely superfluous. There are dozens of books and hundreds of instructors always at hand to enlighten ignorance, if it exist, which seems almost incredible. It is parental conviction strong enough to neutralize selfishness or inertia which is wanted; it is community cooperation powerful enough to remodel conventional customs which is needed; it is a civic conscience so sensitive that it will no longer tolerate conditions prejudicial to childhood, which calls for cultivation. The regular simple food, the long hours of quiet, regular sleep; the sensible clothing, the suitable play, the well considered training, the healthful habits which are each child's birthright, will be ensured to him by the parents who believe that to rear a human being calls for intelligent preparation more than does the rearing of a calf or a chicken.

QUESTIONS.

1. What reasons may be given for the low value placed on child life?
2. What factors are essential to healthful childhood?
3. What diseases are most fatal to children?
4. In what ways may these diseases handicap children who recover?
5. How would you propose to develop a more general attention to the needs of children?
6. What law should govern the number of children born to parents?

The Magic of Song  
Lucy May Green.  
Mrs. Parley Nelson.  
Moderato  
1. When the heart is sad and lonely,  
And the day seems  
2. When life seems to have no bright side,  
And you fret and  
[Musical notation]  
Faster.  
[Musical notation]  
lilting song,  
Of a lilting song?

Eyes begin to sparkle, clouds sail by,  
As the clouds sail by.  
Sing a joyful stanza,  
Lips to smile ere long,  
For they can't resist the magic  
Of a lilting song,  
Sing it clear and strong,  
For the heart forgets its burden  
In a lilting song,  
Of a lilting song, a lilting song.  
In a lilting song, a lilting song.  

Little All-Aloney.  

Little All-Aloney's feet  
Pitter patter in the hall  
And his mother runs to meet  
And to kiss her toddling sweet  
Ere perchance he fall.  
He is, oh, so weak and small!  
Yet what danger shall he fear  
When his mother hovereth near  
And he hears her cheering call  
All Aloney.  

Little All-Aloney's face  
It is all aglow with glee  
As around that romping place  
At a terrifying pace  
Lungeth plungeth he!  
And that hero seems to be  
All unconscious of our cheers  
Only one dear voice he hears  
Calling reassuringly  
All Aloney.  

Though his legs bend with their load  
Though his feet they seem so small  
That you cannot help forebode  
Some disastrous episode  
In that noisy hall  
Neither threatening bumps nor fall  
Little All-Aloney fears  
But with sweet bravado steers  
Whither comes that cheery call  
All Aloney.  

Ah, that in the years to come  
When he shares of summer store  
When his feet are chill and numb  
When his cross is burdensome  
And his heart is sore!  
Would that he could hear once more  
The gentle voice he used to hear  
Divine with mother-love and cheer  
Calling from yonder spirit shore  
All Aloney.  

Piano Seeds  
Are a surety if they come from Bailey's  
Increase your acreage this year with  
ALFALFA TIMOTHY CLOVER GRAIN  
Send for samples and prices  
BAILEY & SONS CO.  
RELIABLE SEEDSMEN  
Salt Lake City  

THE UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK  
Established 1860 Incorporated 1908  
"The Utah State National Bank features quick, and efficient Service. One feature is the Unit System which greatly simplifies transactions.  
Officers:  
Joseph F. Smith, President  
Heber J. Grant, Vice-President  
Rodney T. Badger, Vice-Prest.  
Henry T. McEwan, Cashier  
George H. Butler, Asst. Cashier  

S. M. TAYLOR & Co.  
Undertakers and Embalmers  
Successors to Joseph E. Taylor  
The Pioneer Undertaker of the West  
Fifty-three years in one location  
251-257 East First South Street  
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH  
Efficient Service, Modern Methods  
Complete Equipment  

100 Calling Cards Engraved For $1.50, Postage Paid  
Everyone should have a nice calling card, and we want you to call on us for same.  
PEMBROKE COMPANY  
The Home of Fine Stationery and Engraving  
22-24 East Broadway, Salt Lake City, Utah  
Kindly mention this magazine when ordering.  

Z. C. M. I.  
A New Book on Gospel Doctrine  
"The Way of Beauty"  
Is the title of a new book just issued.  
It is written especially for young people by Bishop Edwin F. Parry.  
It is different to any other work on the gospel in that it not only explains the doctrines of salvation, but gives the reasons why the ordinances of the gospel are to be observed, and offers suggestions as to how they may be obeyed. It is just the right book for young Latter-day Saints. It will give them a very comprehensive understanding of the gospel, as it is written in a simple, plain, yet dignified style. Those who have read it speak highly of it as a book for the young. Your children should have it. Send for a copy and present it to them. It is neatly bound in cloth with gold title, and beautifully printed in large, clear type. A very appropriate present for a young man or a young woman.  
Price, Postpaid, 75 Cents  
Send orders to E. F. Parry, Jr.,  
217 Templeton Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.  

TWO BOOKS  
Family Record of Temple Work for the Dead.  
A simplified form, with complete instructions for properly recording this work.  
L. D. S. Family and Individual Record  
Arranged specially for recording in a most desirable and concise form, important events in the lives of the members of the Church.  
These books are sold at $1.25 each.  
Deseret News Book Store  
6 MAIN STREET  

GRAFONOLA  
FACTORY PRICE-EASIEST TERMS  
Send No Money I Pay Freight  
Wherever you live in the Western States I'll send you this world famous Columbia Grafonola with the true "Tone of Life" that simply can't be imitated, and your choice of records from a list of thousands. Place them in your home and use them exactly as though they were your own, for 5 days. Enjoy them as much as you like—invite the neighbors—hold dances and happy parties.

Then if you aren't entirely sure you want to keep the outfit, return it at our expense and the trial won't cost you a copper cent. Easiest terms if you do keep it. Send coupon for free books COL. JOSEPH J. DAYNES, Jr., President, Daynes-Beebe Music Co., Salt Lake City, Utah. Dear Sir: You may send me FREE and Postpaid, beautifully illustrated Catalogs, showing ALL styles of GRAFONOLAS (in colors) and giving LOWEST FACTORY PRICES and Terms. Also Big FREE 424 page Record Book and full details of your FREE TRIAL OFFER. This does not obligate me in the least. Name  Address ADMINISTRATION BUILDING TEMPLE BLOCK SALT LAKE CITY RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE APRIL, 1918. Three Things I Have Seen Under the Sun, Nay Four. Stake Presidents Who Know Their Duty. A Left-Handed Violinist With Both Faith and Courage. A Father Who Had His Innings. And a Great Woman Whose Will and Indomitable Faith Kept Her on Earth to Celebrate Her Ninetieth Birthday. L. D. S. GARMENTS LOOK FOR THIS LABEL IN THE NECK OF GARMENTS The Sign of Comfort The Sign of Quality If your leading dealer does not have the garments you desire, select your wants from this list and send order direct to us. We will prepay all postage to any part of the United States. Samples submitted upon request. Style Style 75 Cotton, medium wt., bleached $2.25 1 Unlabeled Special gauze wt. $1.25 90 Cotton, heavy wt., unbleached 2.50 15 Cotton, spring needle gauze, 100 Cotton, heavy wt., bleached.. 2.75 bleached 1.50 107 Merino wool, medium wt 3.00 10 Cotton, light wt., unbleached 1.75 3 Cotton, gauze wt., bleached.. 1.85 109 Merino wool, heavy weight.. 3.50 25 Cotton, light wt., bleached 2.00 120 Imported wool, medium wt... 4.50 50 Lisle, gauze weight, bleached 3.00 305 Wool and silk, medium 4.50 65 Mercerized, light wt., bleached 3.50 The only approved Garments made with wide flaps at back, button holes for better fastening down front, and set in shoulder pieces to prevent sleeves stretching. SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE 70 MAIN STREET, SALT LAKE CITY Salt Lake Artificial Limb Co. (INCORPORATED) Successors to Artificial Limb and Brace Co. J. F. CORDELL, President Largest Manufacturer of Artificial Limbs in the West Fit guaranteed or no sale Patent "Cordell" legs, which have the motion of the natural limb in walking Remodeled and improved We manufacture every style Catalog free Phone Wasatch 8128, 134 W. South Temple, Salt Lake City, Ut. UTAH'S "AMATRICE" BEAUTIFUL PRECIOUS STONE Genuine "Amatrice" differs from beautiful colors, no two stones being alike. malachite, verascite, azurite, turn more beautiful example of turquoise and other copper-stained nature's handiwork were ever offered stones as the genuine diamond offer to lovers of refined jewelry. differs from imitations. Amatrice never fades, takes a fine May we send you gratis a pamphlet polish, and has a wider range of describing more fully this Utah gem? McConahay 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City Solid Gold Rings set with genuine Amatrice $6.00 to $12.50 The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. CONTENTS APRIL, 1918. Group of Relief Society Presidents Frontispiece Charity (A Poem) Grace Ingles Frost 185 Our Relief Society Stake Presidents Susa Young Gates 187 A Quitter Almost Edna Coray 190 Trust Yet a Little While (A Poem) Maud Baggarley 194 Music Brigham Cecil Gates 195 Father Has an Inning Diana Parrish 198 A Utah War Romance 204 Home Entertainment Morag 208 Unusual Mothers 211 War Economy in Clothes 216 Patriotic Department Clarissa S. Williams 218 Current Topics James H. Anderson 221 President Emmeline B. Wells Lighting Candles on her Birthday Cake 224 Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 225 Home Science Department Janette A. Hyde 228 Editorial: Democracy Must be Made Safe for the World 231 Guide Lessons 233 The Gospel Standard (Music) B. Cecil Gates 243 ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY. Patronize those who advertise with us. AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE OF UTAH, Logan. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 Main St., Salt Lake City. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books, and Stationery, Salt Lake City. DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple St., Salt Lake City. EARDLEY BROTHERS CO., Everything for Electricity, Salt Lake City. INLAND CRYSTAL SALT CO., Salt Lake City. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 55 Main, 260 State Streets, Salt Lake City. McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City. MERCHANTS' BANK, Third South and Main Streets, Salt Lake City. PEMBROKE COMPANY, 22-24 East Broadway, Salt Lake City. SALT LAKE ARTIFICIAL LIMB CO., 134 South West Temple. SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 S. Main. SANDERS, MRS. EMMA J., Florist, 278 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. TAYLOR, S. M. & CO., Undertakers, 251-257 E. First So. St., Salt Lake City.

THOMAS STUDIO, Photographs, 44 Main Street, Salt Lake City. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City. Women Like BOOKS This Bank Recommended by the Agricultural College Extension Women, inexperienced in business, find it easy to deposit Department their savings in the Merchants correlating with the Bank. Being one of the most Relief Society Work conveniently located banks in Salt are sold by the Lake, and offering all the SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION advantages of a modern institution, the Merchants Bank at BOOK STORE attracts its patrons from all Salt Lake City, Utah situations of life. All are welcome here. The Merchants is the city bank for out-of-town people. "The Bank with a Personality" SALT LAKE'S LADY FLORIST Merchant's Bank Capital, $250,000 Mrs. Emma J. Sanders Member of Salt Lake Clearing House 278 South Main Street John Pingree, President; O. P. Soule, V.P.; Moroni Heiner, V.P.; Radcliffe Q. Cannon, L. T. Hayes, Assistant Cashiers Phone Wasatch 2815 Corner Main and Third South, Salt Lake City, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Spend a Profitable Vacation at the Utah Agricultural College Summer School June 10 July 19, 1918. Logan has an ideal climate for study and recreation. Exceptional opportunities are offered to students in: HOME ECONOMICS, which is under the direction this year of Professor Alice Ravenhill, an international authority on Nutrition and Child Study. Miss Ravenhill delivers a course of lectures on Physical Development in Childhood, and supervises the new Practice House which will be open to advanced students. TRAINING COURSES IN MUSIC for supervisors and teachers of music. COURSES IN ART designed to prepare teachers to interpret successfully the new State adoptions in Art textbooks. SPECIAL WORK IN POULTRY MANAGEMENT to help to meet the Nation's call for increased poultry production. OTHER COURSES OF INSTRUCTION: Accounting, Agriculture, Botany, Chemistry, Economics, Sociology, Education, Psychology, Public Speaking, English, Geology, History, Library Science, Mathematics, Spanish, French, Physical Education, Woodwork, Zoology. Lectures by prominent eastern educators. Write for further information to: Director of Summer School, Utah Agricultural College, Logan, Utah. Charity. By Grace Ingles Frost. "Neither do I condemn thee; go and sin no more" (John 8:11). Charity! Charity! Not like the Pharisees of old, Who close about his form did draw His garment, lest perchance a fold Should unto him unhallowed be From contact with a fellow man Less fortunate than he. Charity! Charity! Like that which forth from lips divine As precious pearls did flow, When she, that erring one, was brought, Her shame, her guilt to show. The words, "Let him who hath no sin Be first to cast a stone," And lo! the accusers, one by one, Stole forth and left alone The woman with her God. Then through the ominous silence broke A thought of wondrous love, Which dormant good in heart awoke, That such grave stigma bore, "Neither do I condemn thee: Go and sin no more." Invocation. God give us loyal hearts and brave, Great souls who walk by love, Not afraid To hurl the contumelious stone Upon another, But ever eager, glad to save; Fling forth the life-line wide, To rescue from the storm-tossed wave The sister or the brother. Top row: Mrs. Annie C. Hindley, Alpine Stake; Mrs. Susan Thompson, Millard Stake. Center: Mrs. Martha F. Keeler, Utah Stake. Bottom row: Mrs. Wilhelmina H. Erickson, North Sanpete Stake; Mrs. Elizabeth Boswell, Tintic Stake. THE Relief Society Magazine