Relief Society Magazine. UTAH THE Established 1860 Incorporated 1908 UTAH STATE The National Bank of Utah features quick and efficient Service. SALT LAKE CITY One feature is the Unit System which greatly simplifies transactions. Joseph F. Smith, President Heber J. Grant, Vice-President Rodney T. Badger, Vice-Prest. Henry T. McEwan, Cashier George H. Butler, Asst. Cashier

S.M. TAYLOR & Co. Undertakers and Embalmers Successors to Joseph E. Taylor The Pioneer Undertaker of the West Fifty-three years in one location 251-257 East First South Street SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Efficient Service, Modern Methods Complete Equipment

100 Calling Cards Engraved For $1.50, Postage Paid Everyone should have a nice calling card, and we want you to call on us for same. PEMBROKE COMPANY The Home of Fine Stationery and Engraving 22-24 East Broadway, Salt Lake City, Utah Kindly mention this magazine when ordering.

ASK YOUR DEALER Let Us Bind Your Magazines They are like old friends, and you will enjoy meeting them again in the future as you turn the pages of your bound volumes. Familiar faces, subjects and places will be preserved and brought vividly to your recollection if you have them put in a neat binding. THE DESERET NEWS Dept. of Job Printing and Binding

When WE make your Portraits, YOU get the correct style, excellence and satisfaction The Thomas Studio Phone Was. 3491 44 Main St.

Electric Washing Machines and Appliances of All Kinds Let Eardly Bros. Do It. We manufacture fixtures, do construction work and carry a complete line of everything for Electricity. Send for our catalog. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

A New Book on Gospel Doctrine "The Way of Eternal Life" Is the title of a book just issued. It is written especially for young people by Bishop Edwin F. Parry. It is different to any other work on the gospel in that it not only explains the doctrines of salvation, but gives the reasons why the ordinances of the gospel are to be observed, and offers suggestions as to how they may be obeyed. It is just the right book for young Latter-day Saints. It will give them a very comprehensive understanding of the gospel, as it is written in a simple, plain, yet dignified style. Those who have read it speak highly of it as a book for the young. Your children should have it. Send for a copy and present it to them. It is neatly bound in cloth with gold title, and beautifully printed in large, clear type. A very appropriate present for a young man or a young woman. Price, Postpaid, 75 Cents Send orders to E. F. Parry, Jr., 217 Templeton Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.

This GRAFONOLA FOR 5 DAYS' TERMS Send No Money Pay Freight Wherever you live in the Western States I'll send you this world famous Columbia Grafonola, with the true "Tone of Life" that simply can't be imitated, and your choice of records from a list of thousands. Place them in your home and use them exactly as though they were your own, for 5 days. Enjoy them as much as you like — invite the neighbors— hold dances and happy parties. Then if you aren't entirely sure you want to keep the outfit, return it at our expense and the trial won't cost you a copper cent. Easiest terms if you do keep it. Send coupon for free books COL. JOSEPH J. DAYNES, Jr., President, Daynes-Beebe Music Co., Salt Lake City, Utah. DEAR Sir:— You may send me FREE and Postpaid, beautifully illustrated Catalogs, showing ALL styles of GRAFONOLAS (in colors) and giving LOWEST FACTORY PRICES and Terms. Also Big FREE 424 page Record Book and full details of your FREE TRIAL OFFER. This does not obligate me in the least.

Have You Welded all the Links to Your Dead? Honor thy Father and thy Mother that thy Days may be Long in the Land which thy God hath Given thee.

Have you Planted Your Early Garden? Now for our Stake Conferences. Buy a Liberty Bond This is OUR War.

L. D. S. GARMENTS LOOK FOR THIS LABEL IN THE NECK OF GARMENTS The Sign of Comfort The Sign of Quality If your leading dealer does not have the garments you desire, select your wants from this list and send order direct to us. We will prepay all postage to any part of the United States. Samples submitted upon request. Style 1 Bleached Unbranded, spring needle gauze.

$1.25 66 Merino, light wt., bleached 3.50  
1.50 75 Cotton, medium wt., bleached $2.25  
2 Unbranded, Special, medium 90 Cotton, heavy wt., unbleached 2.50  
weight 1.60 100 Cotton, heavy wt., bleached.. 2.75  
10 Cotton, light wt., unbleached 1.75  
107 Merino wool, medium wt 5.00  
3 Cotton, gauze wt., bleached.. 1.85  
109 Merino wool, heavy weight.. 3.50  
25 Cotton, light wt., bleached 2.00  
12w Imported wool, medium wt... 4.50  
50 Lisle, gauze weight, bleached 3.00  
305 Wool and silk, medium 4.60  

The only approved Garments made with wide flaps at back, button holes for better fastening down front, and set in shoulder pieces to prevent sleeves stretching.  

SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE  
70 MAIN STREET, SALT LAKE CITY  

Salt Lake Artificial Limb Co.  
(INCORPORATED)  
Successors to Artificial Limb and Brace Co.  
J. F. CORDELL, Pres. and Mgr.  
Largest Manufactory of Artificial Limbs in the West  
Fit guaranteed or no sale  
Patent "Cordell" legs, which have the motion of the natural limb in walking  
Remodeled and improved  
We manufacture every style  
Catalog free  
Phone Wasatch 8128  
134 W. South Temple, Salt Lake City, Ut.  

first of all—reliability  

May we send you gratis, a copy of our booklet about AMATRICE  

McCONAHAY  
AMERICA'S NEWEST ONE PRICE JEWELER  
64 MAIN STREET  

GEM?  

A Message to the Young Mothers of Utah and the West  

As a means of safe-guarding and fostering the growth of our children, the Extension Division of the University of Utah is offering a special course in Child Welfare Work. This course may be taken by the mother or prospectant mother right in her own home and without interfering with her daily duties. The lectures, pamphlets, etc., have been prepared by some of Utah's eminent baby specialists. The mother, in registering for the course, registers also the age of her baby and all literature is sent her at frequent intervals corresponding exactly with the child's development.  

THE FEE FOR THIS COURSE IS ONLY $1.  

All registrations for Child Welfare Work should be sent to the EXTENSION DIVISION OF THE UNIVERSITY OF UTAH, Salt Lake City.  

A. C. Carrington, Acting Director  

AN OUNCE OF PREVENTION  

Is worth a pound of cure,—and the human body, which is far more complicated and a thousand times more important than an automobile, should be inspected often, by a skilled mechanic who has had years of training and experience and who understands every part of the human mechanism. "Faith" or "Rabble"—is no part of Osteopathy, and is not taught in our system. My system combines all that is of value in mechanical manipulative and adjustive movements of the human body, and I owe it to you to investigate Osteopathy.  

Sincerely,  
DR. G. A. GAMBLE,  
Salt Lake City, Utah.  

BOOKS  
SALT LAKE'S  
Recommended by the  
LADY FLORIST  
Agricultural College Extension Department  
Mrs. Emma J. Sanders correlating with the  
278 South Main Street Relief Society Work  
Schramm-Johnson No. 5 are sold by the  
Phone Wasatch 2815 SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE  
Salt Lake City, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah  

Opportunities  
Remember the firms that  
For Women are true to the Magazine are greater today than at any time in the  
Dear Sister: world's history. In every activity, women are doing a man's work  
We wish to call your special at- to make the  
tention to our advertising pages. world a decent place to live  
They contain the business announcements of very good friends  
Special attention is given to of ours.  
women's accounts at this bank, It is the advertisers who help  
where 4 per cent compound inter- the Relief Society Magazine to  
est is paid on deposits. grow. Patronize them. We can  
vouch for those who take space  
"The Bank with a Personality" with us, as we solicit advertisements from none but the strongest and most reputable companies.  

Merchant's Bank  
Capital, $250,000  
"Stand by the firms that stand by us."  
Member of Salt Lake Clearing House  
John Pingree, President; O. P. Relief Society Magazine.  
Soule, V.P.; Moroni Heiner, V.P.; Radcliffe Q. Cannon, L. T. Hayes, Assistant Cashiers  
Corner Main and Third South, Salt Lake City, Utah  

Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  

Resurrection.  
By Lucy S. Burnham.  

Dearest mother, Spring is here,  
The birds are all returning  
With wondrous songs of great delight,  
For shame their hearts are yearning.  

As youthful Nature hush scarce dared  
To breathe,  
So great her joy to hear the birds,  
Hard clouds might make them leave.  

I hear their sweet notes calling,  
When from my bed I rise,  
I see the flowers peeping,  
I note in glad surprise  

The Easter Lily's petals  
Burst forth as if to bloom.  
Sweet emblem of the coming  
Of Christ from out the tomb.  

My heart so lone and saddened,  
Takes courage at the sight,  
My weary brain seemed maddened,  
All through the winter night.  
Where'er I looked, dear mother,  
Death stared me in the face,  
I could not even dream of thee  
Except in Death's embrace.  

And wondrous peace steals o'er me,  
A banished is the gloom.  
I know that thy dear body  
That now lies in the tomb  
Will come forth as these petals,  
To bloom in life and love,  
And you'll be there to greet me  
When I reach that home above.  

Our Picture Gallery  
Top: Mrs. Emily Gladwin, Pocatello Stake; Mrs. Rebecca N. Cutler, Curlew Stake.  
Center: Mrs. Arzetta H. Holgate, Duchesne Stake; Mrs. Mayme H. Laird, Bingham Stake.  
Lower: Mrs. Martha E. Roberts, Star Valley Stake; Mrs. La Priel G. Hyer, Benson Stake.  

THE Relief Society Magazine

Vol. V. MAY, 1918. No. 5. The Welding Link. By Nephi Anderson. In my dream, I left the mortal life and passed into the great spirit world; and, after a time, when I had become somewhat accustomed to my new environment, I was sent to preach the gospel to those who had not yet received it, either in earth-life or in the world of spirits. At first I marveled that there should be anyone in the region beyond mortal death who did not understand the plan of life and salvation; but when I contemplated the matter more carefully, it was made clear to me that all knowledge of truth must be obtained by the exercise of the mental faculties, by faith and earnest desire to know; and that the mere passing of an individual from mortality to the spirit world would add nothing to that person's store of knowledge, save what would be gained from the experience of the transition. A knowledge of the gospel of Jesus Christ must be obtained in the spirit world in the same way as it is obtained in the mortal world; and therefore was I, with many others, called to preach that gospel to those who knew it not. And as I went out on my mission, it seemed to me that the experiences and the feelings which I had while filling a mission in mortality all came back to me; or at least, my doings and my emotions were the same, for I met many kinds of people who had ideas as varied and as strange as those I had found on the earth. I experienced great joy in bringing the glad tidings to those who would receive them. Especially was my joy great when I found men and women of my own kin who would listen to me. Many of these had lived far from me in earth-life, and had passed on into the spirit world many years before I had. Some of these received my message gladly, others at first strove against it, coming as it did against life-long beliefs and practices. It is with one of these latter that this dream of mine has more especially to do. 248 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. This particular man, I learned, was my second great grandfather on my father's line, and he had lived in the "Old Country" from which my parents had gathered to Zion. He told me he had been a "preacher of the gospel" for many years in earth-life. On hearing this, I told him that he should readily understand and be glad to receive my message. At first he resented my efforts to teach him, but after laboring patiently with him for a time, his anger was modified, and he listened to me. I told him of the restoration of the gospel to the earth, and that many of his descendants had received it and were engaged in building up the Kingdom of God, preparatory to Christ's coming to rule among the nations. I preached faith and repentance to him; and after a time, by the power of the Lord, his heart was touched. "I have always believed in the Lord Jesus," he said contritely, "and I preached repentance to the ungodly; and I was baptized—what more need I?" Then I explained to him that his baptism as an infant, being based on false doctrine, was not acceptable to the Lord. "You mean, then," he exclaimed, "that I have not been baptized!" "I mean," I replied, "that you were not baptized by one having authority, and further, the ceremony was not correct in either form or principle. Baptism is for the remission of sins, and you neither believed nor preached that. Your baptism was merely 'an outward sign of an inward grace' as you, yourself, used to say. Baptism is essential to salvation, and it must be preceded by faith in the true and living God—not the one 'without body, parts, or passions'—and by a godly sorrow or true repentance." Then in my dream, I thought this man strode away from me as if he was greatly worried or displeased; but as I went on preaching to the others who had gathered about me, I perceived that he came back again and stood listening to me more attentively than ever. When I ceased my speaking, and the others about me had departed, he remained. "I beg your pardon for my rudeness," he said. "Will you come with me? I want others of my people to hear what you have to say." Gladly I went with him, and I met many of his kinsfolk which also were mine. Many of them listened attentively and joyfully received my message of salvation.

Time passed, for here my dream was not clear, but I remember distinctly that the time came when I had to leave my people. I recall also that I had not told them all that I had to tell them. I had kept something back until such a time that I perceived in them a repentant spirit and an eagerness to receive of the bless-

THE WELDING LINK. 249

ings of the gospel. Now on this occasion, when I was about to leave them for a time, there were many of my kinsfolk gathered about me. They seemed to cling to me there was something more which they wanted some eager longing in their eyes and I knew full well what it was. My second great grandfather stood forth as spokesman for the company. "We all believe your message," he said; "and we have humbly repented; but we are as prisoners in a pit, and have no apparent means of escape. We have talked this over among ourselves, and we have concluded that it is our lack of baptism which detains us here. But baptism is an earthly ordinance, and cannot now be performed. What good is all this which you have been telling us? Have you come here to mock us? How can we escape?" The questions seemed to echo from the eager faces about me. Then it seemed to me in my dream that I stood up before them and said: "My friends and kindred, I am now going to tell you something which I have reserved for this occasion, for I see that you are now properly prepared to hear me. You believe in the gospel as I have taught it to you, you are repentant in your hearts, and now you cry out: 'What more can we do? How can we be baptized?'" They crowded closely about me as I went on. "The Lord is good and kind as well as merciful and just, and He has provided a way of escape for all his children who come to Him with repentant hearts. Here with you, all may believe and repent, though there is no baptism; but the Lord has provided for that. In earthly temples, the living may be baptized for those who have come into this life without having the ordinance properly done. That work has been going on for some time. In earthly life, I did some of that work. I diligently searched the records of my forefathers, and yes, I found your names all of yours, I think; fathers, mothers, children; and I arranged them properly in family groups, with the data for identification, in my records. And then " I could hardly go on, so eagerly and expectantly did my listeners press in about me. "And then," I continued, "I did or had done the work for you all that you could not do for yourselves. It is all there, standing to your credit in the books until such time when you are willing to comply with the prerequisites and accept of it in the same way that you would have done in the earth-life!" When I said this, the tense silence seemed to break into a murmur of joy. My own heart seemed to burst with happiness when I saw the joy on the faces about me. There was no need of words to tell me that these had accepted of the work which had

250 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

been done for them, for I seemed to see it in their very hearts. And then I understood also, without the telling of words, that these my kin folks were emerging from prison walls, and already the horizon of their lives stretched out into the freedom and blessedness of God's limitless heavens. And then as I stood there, it came forcibly to me how imperfect had been my own salvation, apart from my kinsfolk of the flesh. The break between me and my people seemed to close up, linked and held securely by the binding power of unselfish love; and the joy in my own heart was multiplied by the number of the people unto whom I had been the means of bringing salvation. Sweetly, softly, those about me began to sing a song of the redeemed; and as their voices rose into a mighty chorus, which seemed to echo into the heavens, I awoke from my dream.

To My Mother in Israel. (My Relief Society Teacher.)

AN APPRECIATION.

By Lucy May Green.

Dear little mother, with crown of silvery hair,  
Sweet little mother, whose love beyond compare  
Comforts and cheers me, when life seems dark and drear  
Hope and sunshine brings, casting out all fear.  

Dear little mother, living all alone,  
Father's very near you, watching o'er "His own,"  
Angels often round you their silent comfort bring;  
Lift your heart in gladness, tune your heart to sing.  
Blessed, faithful mother, journeying every day  
To the Holy Temple, to catch hope's shining ray,  
Bringing souls from prison, lifting them above  
Through your earnest labors, your unselfish love.  
For my little mother, in the years to come,  
Waits a crown of glory, Father's "welcome home."  
"Many of my children through your work are free.  
Enter now my kingdom, ye did it unto Me."  

The Mother-Father Sacrifice.  
By Diana Parrish.  

Tim and Geraldine and Viola were back from New York. The family were all excited about it and so were the neighbors. For the past two years the local papers through their Gotham correspondents had carried many notes about Tim and Viola and their accomplishments while they had often mentioned Geraldine in a social way. Detailed accounts had been given of Tim and his work on a New York journal. He had had his name featured on his paper's staff, he had sold a number of stories to leading magazines and one of his articles had won the Metropolitan prize for the best original essay. After which he had been interviewed for one of the big dailies and had been given a write-up illustrated with a very flattering photograph of himself in their Sunday Magazine Section. It was quite an honor to be sure, for this same paper had published interviews with Galli-Curci, General Joffre, Yvette Gilbert and other celebrities. Stories of Viola's studies with the great masters had also been sent home. She had achieved an equally satisfactory success by dint of hard work, a good voice and her pleasing personality. She had studied chiefly with Madame X, once Caruso's teacher. She had sung for him at one of Madame's recitals and he had personally congratulated her and sent her tickets for one of his performances with a note inviting her to come behind the scenes afterward for a brief visit. Imagine receiving such honors from the greatest living tenor! Viola had walked on air and lived in the clouds for a week afterward and incidentally forgotten to reply to Henry's letter—Henry who was so much opposed to the musical career and was working day and night and saving his money, longing for the time when they could begin to build their little nest. Just before leaving for home she had been soloist at Aeolian Hall with the New York Symphony Orchestra. She had done "Il dolce suono," the mad scene from "Lucia" and her name had been in all the New York papers next morning mentioning her singing with praise. Viola sighed when she got another letter from Henry that day wishing her a pleasant journey home. She packed her trunk with anything but joy for her mind was occupied with the humdrum existence that was staring her in the face—teaching vocal to pay off her debts and make it up to the family for their having let her go—and then saving up enough money to take more studies. She had closed the lid down with a bang. Anyway they were back. Every member of the family who was not absolutely too busy or too sick went to the station to meet them and shed a few glad tears over them. Henry managed to get inside the gate and kissed Viola in front of all the passengers in the observation car of the California limited—much to their edification, be it said, for all the world loves a lover. For a few minutes Viola forgot that there was any other music in the world but Henry's voice. Then her ambitious self came to the top and she treated him very coldly for the rest of the evening. Tim and Geraldine were not long in getting re-established in their little house which mother had arranged to be vacated in plenty of time for a thorough cleaning before their return. They made a few alterations, changed the spare bedroom into a study for Tim where he was to continue his writing during the time he could spare from the duties which he was to assume as Professor of Journalism at the University. Geraldine hung the fancy new curtains she had brought from New York and put down the two Persian rugs they had scraped together enough money to buy from a greasy old dealer, with a smooth tongue, in Thirty-fourth street. She also re-arranged the lights taking out all the glaring white ones in the chandeliers and putting in lamps shaded with soft colored silks.

A writer's artistic temperament craved "atmosphere" and Geraldine, like the good wife that she was, determined that Tim should have it. When mother first saw the little house after the new lamps had been installed, she called it "The House of a Thousand Lampshades" and said it reminded her of a book she had once read, The House of a Thousand Candles. But of course, mother was not supposed to be up to the minute in New York fashions. After the house was completed to Geraldine's satisfaction and Tim and Viola had informally received their friends and admirers and had been quizzed to their satisfaction about their experiences in New York, they decided that the thing to put them before their hometown people in the best light was to give a very formal musicale at which Viola would perform and Tim would read his prize essay. It should be made a high-toned affair so that in the beginning they would establish themselves as holding only the highest ideals so Tim would not be hindered by being asked to do a lot of common writing, publicity, and such stuff, without pay, for the numerous charitable societies of the city, and so that Viola would immediately attract rich and fashionable pupils who would be able to pay big prices without wincing and thus help her from the bondage of teaching in the quickest possible time. The guests were to include the editors and managers of all the city's newspapers, the rich and influential citizens, and the leading music professors that either Tim or Viola knew. Last but not least, the city's patroness of Art was to be invited, Mrs. Leicester-Scissorem, who took in washing in a mining camp until her husband struck it rich. No function could be possible unless this grand dame was "among those present." Now comes the part of my story that I hesitate to tell. I wish that I could gloss it over, or better skip it entirely, but that is impossible as there would have been no story without it. Perhaps the best thing to do is to go at it direct, for after all Tim and Geraldine and Viola are but human and very, very young in experience. So here it is: they wanted to get out of inviting mother and father to the musicale because mother had no evening dress and father had no dress suit, and because they had invited no one who could not wear the proper evening dress. "I don't want to put dad in an embarrassing position," argued Tim bravely, when the three finally put their thoughts into words. "In his time a dress suit was out of the question—almost a sign that the man who wore it was going to the devil. And mother—" He broke off lamely. "I am sure they would prefer not to be invited because they wouldn't like to refuse to come just on account of clothes, and yet if they came they would feel out of place by Mrs. Leicester-Scissorem in her diamonds," put in Geraldine, not unkindly. Secretly she was feeling very conscience-smitten to think that before leaving New York she had bought an evening gown for one hundred and twenty-five dollars, a suit for a hundred, and a petticoat for fifteen—a lovely petticoat it is true, of checked Jersey silk accordion-pleated in a most fascinating manner—but still fifteen dollars! She had found mother wearing her suit of two seasons before and the black silk dress that was three years old. "Anyway they don't care about classical music, and writing and art and things like that," put in Viola, "and father will be sure to ask me to play the 'Blue Danube Waltz' or sing 'My Little Grey Home in the West.' You know father hates trills and runs. Don't you remember the time when I first began to practice the high mi-mi-mi-mi mo-mo-mo-mo? he rushed into the room and asked me if I were in pain. We simply won't say anything about their coming and we can have another party that they will enjoy more." So the preparations for the musicale progressed and mother and father were not invited. Fortunately, they were not in the least disturbed about this, simply taking it for granted that they were to go to the big affair which was causing no small stir in the fashionable musical circles. Several times Tim called himself a cad and was on the verge of going to his parents and making a clean breast of the whole thing—but he didn't.

More than once as Geraldine showed her new clothes to her admiring friends who came to call she was tempted to tell them of her selfish perfidy and insist that mother and father be invited but she didn't. Often as Viola went through her exercises and her aria in preparation for the grand event, she heard her father's favorite "Blue Danube Waltz" and "Little Grey Home in the West" ringing in the back of her head. She usually stopped and ran through them, thinking as she did so what a silly thing it was to leave mother and father out. Once as she saw mother carrying some ferns over to Geraldine's house to decorate and she jumped up from the piano bench and started out to confess what she had been guilty of thinking but she didn't. The day before the musicale when Tim and Viola were rummaging in the attic for some old draperies to use on the small stage they were having put up, Viola stumbled across a little wooden box, very dingy and thick with dust. She opened it curiously. Within lay some crumpled flowers, brown and musty, an old-fashioned photograph of father, a long lock of golden hair tied with blue ribbon, two curious rings with all the sets gone, a dog-eared manuscript and a little red stiff-backed book with "Diary" written across the cover. Viola picked up the diary and opened it. On the fly-leaf was mother's name. On the first page there was an entry. May 10th, 1886. Today is the first time nurse would let me write and I was so anxious to get at my new diary. Baby was born three weeks ago, the fourth in five years we are becoming quite a family! I worked at odd moments until the very last on my paper, "The Western Pioneers," but it is very difficult to collect one's thoughts with babies to feed and dress, and housework to do and the little ones continually crying for some one to amuse them. I find that I am weaker than I thought. I can write no more today. Being a holiday, Daddy has taken the children except the baby for a walk to relieve me. July 4th. It amused me to see Bobbie and Timmie and even Isobel hurrying up for their promised picnic they are growing up so fast. Timmie has the greatest attachment for baby Vi and cried furiously when I would not let them take the little mite along. I have been trying again to work on my paper but find it utterly impossible unless I neglect my family, which I will not do. THE MOTHER-FATHER SACRIFICE. 255 I had hoped to be able to have a nurse this summer, but Daddy says we cannot manage it as he did not get the raise he expected and the new baby has cost such a lot of money. I was greatly disappointed, of course, but could not complain when he bought me a new dress (which I needed badly) with the money he had been saving to buy me a score of his favorite "Lucia." His dreams of going to New York to study and work at the things we love are slowly vanishing. Lately it is sad to see how he has to neglect his practicing. He used to be able to get in an hour or two every evening after supper, but he has to be up so often in the night with Viola that I find him dropping asleep at the piano from sheer exhaustion. Our little family Viola was half stunned at what she read. It was like a voice from the grave. "Tim, Timmie," she called huskily to her brother who was in the other room. "Come here!" She handed him the book silently. Tim read the astonishing pages. "I've been an awful fool, Vi," he broke out. "Thank heaven it's not too late to mend." He brushed a tear drop from his cheek. When the musicale came off you may be sure mother and father were there, seated right in front of Mrs. Leicester-Scissorem. Mother was wearing a Venetian lace collar and father was wearing a but why bother with such details as clothes? The first important point is that they were as proud of their performing children as any parents could possibly be and that in these children the dreams of their youth were fulfilled. The second point is that Timothy's prize essay on the Great West contained some strong new passages about the sacrifice of pioneer mothers and fathers which he had put in after perusing a certain dog-eared manuscript from a certain dingy, dusty box passages which entirely changed the essay and made it more valuable than ever.

The third point is that when Viola sang her aria from "Lucia," father's favorite opera, she sang it with a new tenderness and understanding that had been totally lacking in her singing before. She finished up with the song he loved, "My Little Grey Home in the West," singing it with sympathetic expression that would have caused her New York teachers the utmost astonishment. As it was she brought a mist to the eyes of those assembled and made Henry's heart beat wildly with the hope that after all it was time to build the nest.

Unusual Mothers.

MARY CALMULL CHANDLER.  
Of Pocatello Stake.  
MOTHER OF NINETEEN CHILDREN.

Mary Calmull was born April 19, 1857, in Gravely, Cambridgeshire, England. She married Thomas Chandler, September 17, 1874, at Gravely, England. Was baptized into the Church June 15, 1876, in Ely, Cambridgeshire, England, and confirmed the same day. Sister Chandler is the mother of nineteen children—ten boys and nine girls. She left England June, 1879, and arrived in Logan, July of the same year. She was sealed in the Logan temple to her husband, and they had ten children sealed to them the same day (Nov. 28, 1895). She joined the Relief Society in 1881. For a short time they lived in Pocatello, Idaho, then removed to Tilden where they lived for about thirteen years and helped to build the new Church there by saving Sunday eggs; then they moved back to the Pocatello Second ward, and Sister Chandler is at the present a teacher in the Relief Society, where she enjoys her labors. She visits the sick and helps all she can in the great work. With the exception of rheumatism in her feet, her health is good. Sister Chandler has now ten children living and thirty-seven grandchildren.

HANNAH BRIGHT RITCHIE.  
Of North Weber Stake.  
MOTHER OF EIGHTEEN CHILDREN.

Hannah Bright Ritchie was the daughter of John Bright and Sarah Webb Bright, was born January 1, 1840, at Walden, Cambridgeshire, England. She was baptized a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints when eight years of age by Elder Orson Hyde, at Council Bluffs.

UNUSUAL MOTHERS. 257

At an early age she crossed the plains with her parents, by ox team. At Garden Grove she had the sad misfortune of losing her mother through death. This left her with the care of four children. The father married again at Winter Quarters after which the lonesome journey to the Valleys of the Mountains was resumed. On the 2nd of February, 1857, she was married to James Ritchie in the Endowment House, by President Brigham Young. She is the mother of eighteen children, there being twins three times. Eleven of her children are living. Much of Sister Ritchie's education has been acquired in life's school of experience. For years she has been associated with the Relief Society. At the present time she is in fair health, is bright and active and lives solely for the happiness of her children, grandchildren and friends.

JANE McCOWAN READ.  
Of Juab Stake.  
MOTHER OF SEVENTEEN CHILDREN.

Jane McCowan Read was born in Liverpool, England, September 27, 1840. She emigrated to America with her parents in the year 1854, coming on to Utah the same year. Her father died in St. Louis, Missouri, of cholera, leaving her mother with three children. Jane came to Nephi when fifteen years old with Brother Thomas Wright, and lived in his family until she married Winyard Whitby at the age of 16 years. From this union there was one child, a son. When he was six months

258 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

old, Mr. Whitby left the Church and went to California, leaving his wife and child in Nephi. In 1858 she married Robert Read, and from this union there were sixteen children—ten sons and six daughters—seven of these being born at three births. She went through all the hardships of pioneer life in Nephi, living there until the year 1899, when they moved to Idaho where most of their family had gone. She died in 1914. She was an honest and industrious woman and a faithful Latter-day Saint.

CATHERINE A. GARDEN-KENLEY.  
Of North Weber Stake.  
MOTHER OF SEVENTEEN CHILDREN.

Catherine A. Garden-Kenley was born September 16, 1873, in Aberdeen, Scotland, and is the mother of seventeen children—the last were twins, born two years ago. Of this number eleven are living. Sister Kenley heard and embraced the gospel in her native country, after which she and her husband were very desirous of gathering to Zion where they could receive the many blessings enjoyed by the Saints. Upon the eve of their departure, however, Sister Kenley was taken suddenly ill and was unable to go.

It was decided, therefore, that her husband precede her with two of the children, and that she and the other two would follow later, which she was able to do in four months, through the administration of the elders and the blessings of the Lord in preserving her life which hung as by a thread for many weeks. She bears many wonderful testimonies of God's goodness toward her, and has always been willing, when able, to do her bit in rolling on the work of the Lord. At present Sister Kenley enjoys good health. She lives in the Ogden Tenth Ward, is an active member of the Relief Society, and being blessed with an unusual voice takes great pleasure in the song service which she renders the ward choir of which she is a member.

Guidance of Children.  
By Lucy Wright Snow.

PRAYER.

"Methinks God must be oft dismayed,  
Hearing how much our lips have prayed,  
Seeing the little that we do  
To make the prayers we pray come true."

What is prayer? Is it necessary for a child to be taught to pray? How shall I teach my child to pray? Prayer is a wireless message to God, and must be sent under proper conditions, or it will never reach its destination. What are the conditions and how shall we bring the child into a mental attitude to meet them? To get results, he must learn: Faith, Reverence, Consistency, Humility, Sincerity.

FAITH.

Faith is power. It is the power that controls the worlds, and the foundation of all righteousness, therefore it is necessary to begin by teaching it, but about the only way to teach a child to have faith is for his parents and teachers, by their good example and right living, to lead him to have faith in them and in all mankind. Parents should show him by word and deed that they give him everything he asks them for, that their wisdom tells them is right for him to have, and that they also give him many things that he does not ask for, because they love him and know when he tries to be a good child. They may also explain to him why mother does not give the baby a hammer and a mirror at the same time, even though he might cry for them. Let his environment be so carefully selected and his parents be so fair and just to all their fellow beings, as to inspire in him a confidence that will be faith-promoting and that will grow and ripen into faith and belief in God. Parents can do much toward promoting this principle by being alert with the power of suggestion and in showing their own faith, the fact that he must also trust God, must not be overlooked. This point may be nicely illustrated to a child by the following story: A great drought covered a certain part of the country and the people were praying God to send rain lest their crops all die. At one of the prayer meetings a little girl was seen to be carrying

260 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

an umbrella. This fact afforded amusement to some of her elders and they asked her why she brought her umbrella, to which query she replied: "Why, so I won't get wet when God sends the rain."

Parents are directly responsible for the religious development of their children. While religion is inborn, it is one thing that seems not to develop spontaneously, thus showing how responsible parents are, that their children be led to an understanding of the gospel and this responsibility dates back to our first parents. An understanding of all truth then seems to come little by little with nurture and experience and the first and most important step toward unfolding the plan of salvation is for the child to learn to pray, and much conscientious thought should be devoted to methods of teaching it effectively, for each child should be taught in the way that will appeal to him, in order to produce the best results on such an important subject. Every mother should know what the Scriptures teach us concerning pre-existence, namely: That every child born into this world had a knowledge of the gospel while in the pre-existent state, but lost that knowledge on coming to earth, that he might regain it by his own effort, thereby working out his own salvation, and he does gradually regain it by his own effort, but he can receive valuable assistance and guidance from his parents and teachers in attaining this end and through them, he can learn how to approach the great Giver who said: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, who giveth to all men liberally," etc. (Jas. 1:5).

The first important step in teaching him to pray after having taught him Faith, is: REVERENCE. Let the little one be alone with mother, away from noise or confusion. He should kneel, if convenient, and be comfortable while in the attitude of prayer, because if he is not comfortable he will not be able to concentrate his mind, and part of the sacredness of the moment will be lost. Teach him that he is going to talk to God, which is a most sacred thing; that he must be clean in body and his mind should be in a state of peace and composure. He will not be able to learn to whom he prays until the age when reason begins to develop (about four years), at which time he should learn something of the personality of God, that he is a personal Being and that he lives in heaven, e. g., "Our Father which art in heaven." CONSISTENCY. The child should learn that it is of greater importance to acknowledge God and thank him for what he has, namely, for his health, his parents, friends, playthings, etc., than to ask for favors. GUIDANCE OF CHILDREN. 261 also that he should use his own intelligence and effort to its full extent to make his prayers come true and to expect God to help him to do his own work, not to do it for him. God loves the prayers of little children, but it is the duty of parents to teach them to be consistent in what they expect of him, and to guide them to an understanding of, "Thy will be done." If the child does not receive what he has asked for, nor the peace and satisfaction that should come to him as a testimony that God has heard his prayer, suggest to him that perhaps he has not conformed to spiritual law in his prayers, he is not "in tune" or that God knows that it would not be wise for him to have that which he has asked for; perhaps he has not been sincere nor forgiving, or not approached God with sufficient humility; perhaps he prayed selfishly; and teach him that if he approaches God with reverence, in faith and trusting, having charity and forgiveness in his heart for all men—all these things—then he will invariably be satisfied with the result of his prayer and will be able to feel, "Thy will be done." The child must learn that God is the great Giver of all good and so Jesus taught us, "Give us this day our daily bread." He cannot pray this without acknowledging the source of all blessings and in it he learns that he can never become perfect until able to acknowledge God. HUMILITY. To be humble, one must be forgiving, therefore, "Forgive us our trespasses," etc. Teach the child that the more humble he is, the more he will be endowed with the spirit of forgiveness and that he need not expect his prayers to be answered unless he approach God in humility, willing to forgive the trespasses of others. "Lead us" suggests our need of guidance, and then how important in these perilous times, "not into temptation" and "deliver us from evil," for is not the adversary working overtime these days tempting us to go astray? Are not these the days spoken of as those in which Satan shall deceive the very elect? Then comes the all-important, "Thine be the glory," for without this there will be no humility and without humility, no prayer could reach heaven. When Jesus said, "After this manner pray ye," he did not mean that we should utter these words exclusively, he meant this prayer as a pattern and, carefully analyzed, it will be found to cover all the principles of truth. These are the principles necessary to conform to, as Jesus gave them to us, and the earlier in life they can be brought to the child's understanding, the more valuable will he be as an instrument in God's hands to further his 262 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. work. Having taught him these principles, let the child apply them as best he can in his prayers, not conforming to any set type of prayer, lest he lose sincerity and his prayers become a matter of form. Such prayer as the old rhyme, "Now I lay me down to sleep," is undesirable for the reason that it becomes a sing-song after a very few repetitions, and then the third line, "If I should die before I wake" is a very poor sleep suggestion to a child not able to comprehend its full meaning.

As a rule, rhyme prayers are not to be encouraged, but if for any special reason, the mother may feel that her child has need of such a prayer, let it be one of good suggestion, e. g.: "Father whom I cannot see, Look down from heaven on little me; Let angels through the darkness spread Their influence around my bed, And keep me safe, for I am The Heavenly Shepherd's little lamb; Teach me to do as I am told, And help me to be as good as gold." 

SINCERITY. Spoken prayers are necessary as well as unuttered prayers, but they must be sincere. While an unuttered prayer or sincere desire may reach God and be answered, God requires spoken prayer, for did he not say, "After this manner pray ye"? He has also given us other special forms of prayer, as sacrament prayer, prayer for baptism, etc. It is well to have a prayer in one's heart, and it will be understood by God, but it is not enough. The child must learn to express himself to God. Show him how God speaks to us by signs and miracles and expects us to speak to him in acknowledgment of these blessings. Encourage him to pray in secret for these are the most effective of all prayers. In secret prayer he will be able to throw aside all fear and self-consciousness, thereby becoming more sincere and there is much accomplished when a child has learned to seek the Lord spontaneously. He will enjoy the 34th chapter of Alma, which treats of secret prayer, and may form the habit of beginning each day with a little secret prayer. It is the one that is all his own. Teach him appropriate prayers for beginning and closing day, opening and closing meeting, prayer for sick, for the authorities of our Church and for heads of nations; our soldiers. In blessing the food, let him mention the meal, as: Bless the lunch or breakfast. It will teach him to observe, and make the prayer more impressive. Let him always ask a bless-

GUIDANCE OF CHILDREN. 263

ing on his food. It is an excellent habit for a child to bow his little head without being told, when served to his soup as he comes in from school, and say, "Heavenly Father, I thank thee for this soup; bless it in the name of Jesus. Amen." That moment of giving himself to God in peace and quiet will rest him as much as a nap, as well as to teach him faith and confidence in God. To illustrate the necessity of sincerity in prayer, note the following remarkable experience and testimony that came into the life of one of our Latter-day Saint women. She was the mother of three children, two boys and a girl, the latter a most beautiful child in appearance and of lovely disposition. When seven years of age, the little girl was taken ill and died; the father was away at the time and the mother nearly died of grief. She prayed often to God to give her strength to bear this separation from her beloved child, but her grief was so bitter that she became melancholy and refused to be comforted and soon she began to fade like a withered flower until she became a nervous wreck. She could not sleep without taking medicine to induce rest and at last she feared she would lose her reason. One night she arose from her bed and disposed of her sleeping tablets, also a bottle of laudanum which she had at hand, lest in a moment of distraction she might end her life with the drug. After worrying and tossing about in her bed all night in vain efforts to sleep, and when nearing the point of collapse, she knelt down by her bed and with a broken heart and contrite spirit cried: "O God, help me, for I cannot endure this any longer." Instantly there came an answer: "Why, my dear daughter, I would have helped you long ago if you had asked me." This was the first of her prayers that had reached its destination, the first that had been uttered with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, in faith and trusting confidence. References on prayer: Jas. 5:15; Book of Alma, chap. 34; Matt. 26:39; hymn, "Prayer is the Soul's Sincere Desire."

MOTHERHOOD. By Flora S. Home. The purest joy the heart can feel, The strongest bond that love doth seal, The deepest truth that life can teach, The greatest height the soul doth reach.

Fat and Fifty.

The most vital and encouraging phase of the war necessity which demands less food rations and especially less fat-forming food materials is that which will compel fat people to rid themselves of superfluous foods and fats, while not injuring those people who often eat too much and keep thin by carrying it around. To most American women the appalling rapidity with which fat is taken on at middle age is a problem which neither religion nor science solves; and yet the men or women who permit themselves to become overweight invite disease in at the door, make death a constant terror, and rob life of its best and most fruitful period. Women who pass the age of fifty should have twenty-five years more of healthful, vigorous activity. Released from the direct cares and burdens of motherhood a woman at this period of her life should be at liberty to get out into the world and achieve many public and private triumphs which were denied her during her years of active child-bearing. Yet into these years of wonderful possibilities stalks the ever-present tendency of that human body which is fitted up with active internal organs, to lay on fat and still more fat. Fat is unbecoming, a burden to its possessor, and a constant menace to health and long life. You hear women say they eat very little and that water fattens them. Shucks! They know better and you know better. It is true that they have inside of them a magnificent digestive factory that converts every ounce of superfluous food into fatty tissue; and then when the system can no longer make fat it makes trouble. Varicose veins, rheumatism, kidney trouble, torpid liver, cancerous stomach and fatty degeneration of the heart, all join hands with excessive food supplies to make a woman miserable and quite unable to do her work. Fat people need not eat much to keep fat, but they certainly ate altogether too much when they were getting fat. What are you going to do about it? Keep on being fat and getting fatter? Well, that is for you to say. How can one get thin and keep thin? Simplest way in the world. Eat only enough to keep the body properly nourished, of material that will not make fat, and the miracle is accomplished. All the religion in the world and all the science in the world won't avail you if you have no will power to stop eating fat-producing foods that crowd the body with superfluous tissue. There are many forms of diet recommended. One of them I saw tried was an exclusive diet of the skimmest of skim milk and rice for three months. Another form of diet is to live on meat and vegetables without butter or grease or any kind of sweets. Fat people are usually troubled with short breath. They have weak livers and these belong always in the constipated class; such would do well to stop eating flour bread and use corn or rice in their various forms in place of wheat bread. The body requires just so much blood and muscle-building material, and it can be obtained from any of the grains mixed plentifully with vegetables and fruits and meat once a day, if these are rightly proportioned to the human system. "The world's greatest food scientist was an Italian, born in the fifteenth century. He lived far into the sixteenth century. He was one hundred and three years of age when he died. In his fortieth year he had been given up to die by his physicians. The verdict of his physicians came to him as a shock. He awakened to the dangers before him and began to study life's deepest and most mysterious problem—that of living scientifically. "Luigi Cornaro was the name of this man, a native of Italy. He controlled his fate. He lengthened his life by more than sixty years. "If a modern scientist were to discover a definite, dependable means of more than doubling the length of human life, he would be acclaimed as a great genius. "And yet Cornaro, this renowned Italian, made that particular discovery more than five hundred years ago. He learned that the flesh and blood machine that we call the body is created entirely from the food and drink which is put into the stomach. He began to study the cause of disease at its source. "The amount of food that he consumed daily would not make a single square meal for the average healthy adult. He considered it a day's nourishment.

ered twelve ounces of solid food sufficient for "His life story indicates further to an extraordinary degree, the value of a yearly fast. During all periods of the year, his diet was extremely light. But for a considerable period previous to the appearance of the new crop of grapes, his abstinence from food was so extreme as to border closely on a fast. Therefore in the advanced age he had the physical advantage of a yearly fast." (From the Magazine.) 

This man's plan was adopted by the father of Thomas A. Edison, our great inventor, and is followed strictly by himself, his wife, and children. To this restricted diet Edison attributes his tremendous working capacity. In these days of war when it is a patriotic duty to save food, fat people can well take themselves in hand and save themselves discomfort and suffering while still serving their Government and the cause of humanity nobly. It really should be a disgrace to find fat people going about the streets these days. Don't you want to be fat? Then don't be. 

Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams. 

Red Cross. 

There are always those who will endeavor to belittle the work of the Red Cross activities in France. 

"Soldiers scotch rumors regarding sale of Red Cross articles. 

"Soldiers of General Pershing's expeditionary force who, undesignedly started rumors that the American Red Cross or its representatives had been selling sweaters and other articles to the troops, are hastening to correct the false impression. A careful investigation made by the Red Cross clearly establishes the fact that there is no basis for any such charge. 

"A cablegram states that Lieutenant H. A. Deesback, of the 16th Infantry, American Expeditionary Force, has obtained the following signed copy of a letter from Oscar B. Hopkins, Co. G, 16th Infantry, to Mrs. Minerva Allison, dated February 17, 1918: 

"'I am writing a line to correct a statement regarding a letter I wrote you November 14, 1917, concerning the Red Cross. In a thoughtless moment I wrote that the Red Cross charged two prices for things they sold us; but as a matter of fact I have never known them to sell anything to anyone, as far as I know myself. I am, indeed, sorry that my thoughtlessness caused this, and I want you to show this letter to any of the Red Cross workers and offer my apologies.'" 

Nurses. 

A call has been made on the National Red Cross Association for 1,000 nurses between now and June 1. Nearly 7,000 nurses have already been supplied, but the need for more grows daily more imperative. It is estimated that 30,000 will be needed for this year. 

PARIS notes. 

"The Red Cross has now five portable laundries in operation at the base hospitals. These laundries have proved of great value to the hospitals and others are to be installed as soon as possible." 

Tobacco and the Red Cross. 

While this Society may not be the only factor in determining the following changed attitude of the Red Cross at Washington, we feel sure that our protest, which was forwarded to Senator Smoot, has received profound consideration. Washington headquarters says: "It is not the desire of the Red Cross that any individuals opposed to the use of tobacco or cigarettes should against their will take part in the furnishing of these articles to the soldiers." 

Letters to Soldiers. 

In sending out letters to soldiers, either here or in Europe, spell out proper names fully. Initials are very uncertain and often misleading. Do not use pencils. Be sure your envelopes are stout and well made. Write addresses very plainly, typewrite them if possible. Packages to be forwarded should be very carefully wrapped in heavyweight paper, canvas, or good cloth bags, with the address written on a shipping-tag and the name of the sender also on the bag. 

Insurance for Soldiers. 

It is interesting to know that more than $12,000,000 worth of insurance has been written by the Government on the lives of American soldiers, sailors, and nurses. This represents financial safety for families and dependents left at home. 

Free Delivery. 

The Government is appealing to women to exercise self-control and patriotism in carrying bundles home from stores that can be well handled; while all stores are appealed to on the "single delivery" plan. No goods will be sent home on approval, and only one delivery a day will be used. We make a personal appeal to the members of the Relief Society everywhere to help as much as they possibly can in the delivery of their own goods and to be good-natured about the new patriotic ruling. 

State Council of Defense.

The State Committee has completed the organization of County Committees throughout the state of Utah, and all are now busily engaged in co-ordinating the various activities of women's war work locally. Educational and Child Welfare features are particularly well knit, and the work is progressing favorably throughout. Use of the Telephone. Patriotic women are urged to assist in cutting out social conversations on the telephone during the busy hours of the morning. This will include mostly the young people of the house as the older women are too busy in the morning to bother with telephone gossip. However, we make the appeal to all our sisters to join in this movement and thus do a little towards lightening the burdens of the telephone business. Janette A. Hyde. This month we are fortunate in the presentation of the following articles: MAKING THE GARDEN HELP FEED THE FAMILY. By Dr. M. C. Merrill. Horticulturist, Utah Agricultural College. The problem of making the garden feed the family this year as it has never done before is vibrating with interest and teeming with possibilities. It is a problem worthy of the best talents and the most earnest efforts that we can muster into the service. Merely to plant a garden is not sufficient. No problem worthy the name is involved in that. The real problem comes in the proper utilization of all our garden resources, for the call to the war gardens of 1918 has in it the response to the boastful challenge of starvation and it therefore means that the call must be answered in terms of thought, effort, and results. Food and hunger are in deadly combat and the momentous problem is to make food win and thus end the war. Now how shall we go about it to make the garden do its utmost to feed the family? First and foremost should come our plans in regard to the three things involved, which are: 1. The garden itself, its location, extent, and soil; 2. The crops, the varieties, and the amounts to plant; 3. The actual work of planting and caring for the garden. In other words, our problem is where to plant, what to plant, and how to plant and care for it. Just as thought precedes the act; just as a general lays plans before taking his troops into battle; and just as a definite plan is made before the house is constructed: so should the commander of the garden plan the campaign in advance of the actual operation. In our plans we will avoid the mistakes of last year. While it is a positive necessity that we increase our garden production this year, we should not rashly plow up valuable lawns, nor plant seeds in infertile ground where they will not grow or where there is not sufficient water to irrigate them. Seeds are scarce this year and must not be wasted. Turning our attention first to the garden itself, its location, extent and soil, let us consider some fundamental principles in HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 269 regard to those conditions. The location, the slope or exposure, the amount of shade are all important. If the location is on sloping ground it will be found that a southerly exposure is much earlier than a northerly one, though it requires more water. The amount of the ground shaded by neighboring trees is an important matter, especially on the smaller lots, and will have much to do with the quantities grown on a given space. To produce crops, sunshine is just as important as water, for without sunlight the materials making up the vegetable food that man eats cannot be manufactured by the plant. All too little thought is given to the size of the area on which the garden crops are to be grown. Under normal conditions there is a very definite relation between the size of the garden and the number of people it will feed. As a general thing our gardens are larger than need be and hence either garden produce or the ground goes to waste. This year we must Hooverize our gardens in every possible way. That means that every cultivated foot of ground must do its biggest bit. While even the farm garden should be cultivated intensively, that applies with double force to the small city or suburban garden. In the city the value of a unit area of land is very much greater than in the country and hence it must be utilized to the utmost. Where that is done it is simply astonishing what quantities can be produced from small areas. Valuable aids to intensive production are systems of companion cropping and succession cropping.

By companion cropping is meant that two or more crops occupy the land at the same time in alternate hills or in close proximity to each other. By succession cropping is meant planting the later crops on ground that has already produced an early crop. Our gardens bear evidence of wasteful extravagance every year in that we allow desirable weeds to become the late crop rather than plant useful and crops on the ground as soon as the early crop is harvested. Now we come to the soil. Of all areas, garden soils should probably be made the most fertile, since they are called upon for the most intensive production. Yet how often do we find them unfertilized! Many people, especially in the larger cities where manure is somewhat scarce and hard to obtain, last year planted gardens on unmanured ground and then wondered why they did not have good crops. Let me urge that every garden be heavily manured and then have the manure incorporated in the soil by plowing or spading before the seeds are planted. It would have been better to have manured and then plowed the soil in the fall, but far better do it this spring than not at all. Many soils contain so much clay that they are easily packed and baked and cannot therefore give the best results. The best thing in the world 270 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. for such soils, to loosen them up, make them more workable and more productive, is a heavy application of barnyard manure incorporated into the soil. Commercial fertilizers, although they contain the plant food so necessary for plants, cannot satisfactorily take the place of manure, and especially on heavy clay soil. The second phase of our problem now demands consideration—the crops, the varieties, and the amounts to plant. Let this point be emphasized: vegetable crops vary greatly in their requirements and hence if the best results are to be obtained they must be treated differently. One of the frequent causes of disappointment with the garden is failure to recognize this fact. The garden crops are divided into two general groups, those requiring a cool season and those requiring a warm season for their major growth. The following list gives the subdivisions under each of these heads and suggests the season for each: VEGETABLE CROPS. A. Requiring Cool Season. 1. Cannot endure heat: Garden cress, kohlrabi, lettuce, mustard, peas, radishes, turnips, spinach, rutabagas. 2. Cannot endure excessive heat, yet have long season of growth (usually started in hot beds): Early cabbage, early cauliflower, early celery, head and Cos lettuce. 3. Can endure heat and have long season: Beets, carrots, chard, kale, collards, New Zealand spinach, parsley, endive, upland cress, leeks, onions, parsnips, early potatoes, salsify. 4. Escape the heat by making most of their growth in autumn: Late cabbage, late cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, broccoli, celeriac, late celery. B. Requiring Warm Season. 1. Short season crops: String and Lima beans, sweet and pop corn, musk and water-melons, cucumbers, okra, squash, pumpkins. 2. Long season crops (usually started in hot beds): Tomatoes, peppers, eggplants, sweet potatoes. It will be noticed that the above list includes many crops not commonly grown in Utah and surrounding states. By neglecting to grow some of these, which are also easily grown, we are missing a golden opportunity for enriching our tables with some of the most delicious bounties of nature. Let me mention a few of these and urge that you give them a trial this summer. Then HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 271 next year add some more to your list. After that you will never be without them. Kohlrabi, head lettuce, Swiss chard, kale, New Zealand spinach, endive, and salsify will give us a delightful start this year. Regarding varieties, a subject sadly neglected by too many, it should be said that more forethought should be given in their selection. As individual people differ from each other in their talents and characteristics so do varieties differ markedly from each other in their characteristics and qualifications. Some are early, some are mid-season, some are late; some are round, some flat, some long; some are one color, some another; some are universally desirable, some are mediocre. So if we would get exactly what we like and want and avoid disappointing substitutes we will pay more attention to our choice of varieties and we will not be satisfied to plant any old thing. In that case the study of varieties and their adaptations to our particular needs would be of stimulating interest to us. The amounts of each crop or of each variety which should be planted has long remained an unsolved problem with most people. In fact, no attempt is ordinarily made to solve the problem at all on the basis of actual needs.

As a suggestive guide the following table gives the approximate amount of each of the common garden crops to plant under ordinary conditions for each member of the family: Beans: 25 ft. row. Parsley: 5 ft. row. Beets: 25 ft. row. Parsnips: 20 ft. row. Cabbage: 10 plants. Peas: 25 ft. double row. Carrots: 25 ft. row. Radishes: 10 ft. double row. Cauliflower: 10 plants. Spinach: 10 ft. row. Corn. Sweet: 15 hills. Squash: 2 hills. Lettuce: 10 ft. row. Tomatoes: 8 plants. Onions: 35 ft. row. Turnips: 10 ft. row. Of course the above amounts are only suggestive and will need modification on the basis of the individual preferences of members of the family. The quantities given should be multiplied according to the number in the family. Finally we come to the third phase of our garden problem, that of the actual work in planting and caring for the garden. This of course should be done in conformity to a definite prearranged plan. When we go into the garden with our seeds and our planting tools we should know exactly the row or part of a row in which each crop and each variety is to be planted, the distance 272 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. of the rows apart, the amount of seed to use per hundred feet, and the number of rows or parts of a row for each variety. The seedbed should be in excellent condition with the proper moisture content in the soil so the seeds will germinate at once. The depth of planting should vary with the size of the seed, the smaller the seed, the less deeply it is planted. For the more slowly germinating seed as parsnips and carrots it is frequently advisable to plant quickly germinating seed, as radish, to mark the row. Weeds should be kept down, insects controlled, and proper cultivation and irrigation given. If a vigorous effort is made to solve the various problems indicated, the harvest should be abundant and the family correspondingly well fed. Summarizing then, we should do the following: measure our garden, make a definite plan of it on paper, study seed catalogues, choose the best varieties, order our seed, include some of the excellent vegetables we have not grown before in our seed order, have the soil well manured and plowed and harrowed or spaded, plant our crops according to schedule, grow companion and succession crops where possible or advisable, and make every foot of soil produce as it has never produced before. The battle is on and the fight must be won. The garden must do its share in the conflict by helping to feed the family.

MY SONG.  
By Grace Ingles Frost.

My song is not of majesty and splendor,  
Like those, the great ones of the earth have sung,  
But just a little song with cadence tender,  
Of life and love, from vibrant heart strings wrung.  
Of life, as it lies within the cradle,  
Unfolding like the blossom, day by day;  
Life struggling for expression, until able  
To try its feet upon the world's highway.  
Love-clothed service, laboring for others,  
Wearing on its brow the thorny crown,  
Yet seeking to uplift, sustain its brothers,  
By ruthless hands thrust out and trampled down.  
Of life with love, and love with life combining,  
To form a perfect harmony sublime,  
With notes devoid of sadness or repining,  
Till man like God is merged in the divine.

Current Topics.  
By James H. Anderson.

Two Boston men have invented a gun that will fire 33,000 bullets per minute. Persia is suffering appalling distress owing to the war; yet Persia is technically neutral. Italy has seized German property there, following the example of the United States. The Plague made its appearance in China in March, causing numerous fatalities at Nanking. The Turks have resumed their atrocities in Armenia, since Russia came under the disintegrating process. Anti-woman suffragists intend to start a paper at Washington, D. C. But equal suffrage moves on just the same. Mexico still is in the throes of internal strife, with prospects of further and more serious outbreaks in the near future. Cabarets in Chicago are to go out of business May 1 another reduction in the number of crime-breeding saloons. Utah assesses sheep higher than any other western State; it is second on horses, third on cattle, and lowest on swine. "The end of the war is far distant," says U. S. Secretary of the Interior Lane; and he hits the nail squarely on the head. Japan figures that it will yet have to take control of eastern Russia, lest German submarines will find their way into the Pacific ocean.

American troops in France are giving a good account of themselves, being equal in active service to the best men of other nations on the battle line. A Newark, N. J., court has decided that a husband has not the right to kiss his wife against her will; thus man's lethal rights are being steadily curtailed. Idaho is to have an extra session of its legislature in April, to enact laws against seditious utterances there, according to a statement issued by Gov. Alexander, of that State. "War gardens" and every means of producing food in 1918 are necessary in the intermountain region indeed, an urgent necessity if suffering from hunger is to be averted. The government has ordered the seizure of wheat in Ohio and other States, because the farmers refused to put the grain on the market at the price fixed by law. Germany now has big guns which bombard Paris from a distance of seventy-six miles. It is said that guns having this range soon will be turned on London. The Japanese refuse to send troops to the western Europe battle line, saying that Japan is an oriental nation and her operations should be confined to oriental lands which shows that the Japs have a wise head. A cigarette, carelessly thrown on the floor in a Jersey City, N. J., factory on March 26, caused an explosion and fire resulting in a loss of two million dollars. Yet cigarettes continue to be allowed to employees at work. Letters from American soldiers in France say there is plenty of sugar, vegetables, fish and meats there, but a great scarcity of wheat for bread; hence the further necessity for considerable wheat supplies from this country. 39,500 shots without missing was the record of the test of the new Browning gun the most deadly weapon of its class known in warfare, being developed from the machine gun invented and used during the American civil war. Concrete-hull ships, lightly reinforced with steel, are pronounced a success, since one was launched at a California shipyard in March. They can be built in less than one-fourth the time it takes to construct a steel ship of the same capacity. Fruit preserving and canning is being urged on the people of Utah for this season; yet the restriction on the quantity of sugar obtainable at one time, under the food regulations, is regarded by many as a serious handicap in following the advice. Farmers in Utah raised vast quantities of potatoes in 1917, and many thousands of bushels are going to waste, because of the excess supply here; so the farmers say they will limit the 1918 planting of potatoes for a crop less likely to bring them direct loss. A standard blouse, which the women of Germany declare to be a "shapeless monstrosity," is being provided by the government there; it is of a fabric which contains neither wool nor cotton. If the women of Germany had the freedom existing in this country, the "shapelessness" at least would be removed. Dutch ships in American ports have been taken over by the United States government, under international law. Many of the Dutch were angry, but they will be paid for the use of the ships, and the taking over will check the shipment of supplies purchased by Hollanders in America and shipped through to Germany. Sheriffs in Utah have asked the Governor to call an extra session of the Legislature to provide, under the plea of war necessity, that there shall be no election of sheriffs in 1918, but that the present officials shall hold over. There is about as much need for this as there is for asking that State and National officials hold over for the same reason. Palestine is gradually passing into British control. By March 31, British troops had advanced to near Nablous, the ancient Shechem, on the west of the Jordan, and to Es Salt, the ancient Ramoth-Gilead, on the east of that stream, or about halfway from the Dead Sea to the Sea of Galilee. At Amman, the ancient Rabboth-Ammon, they established themselves on the railway running from Damascus to Arabia. Numerous letters from those in the ranks of the 145th Light Field Artillery, the Utah regiment at Camp Kearny, Cal., uniformly tell of the respect, amounting to affection, felt for their commander, Richard W. Young, of Utah. It is freely stated that the suggestion, and even the thought regarding conduct, that "the Colonel might not like it if he knew" has deterred many a young soldier from engaging in pranks or conduct that otherwise would be indulged in freely. Notes from the Field. By Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary. RELIEF SOCIETY STAKE CONFERENCES FOR 1918.

The Relief Society stake conferences appointed for May, June and July will be held in connection with the stake quarterly conferences; those appointed for November will be held independently. 

Conference Dates. 
May 4th and 5th Curlew, Alberta, St. Johns, Raft River, South Sanpete, Wayne. 
May 11th and 12th Emery, Millard, Juab, Taylor, Snowflake. 
May 18th and 19th San Juan, Moapa, Shelley, Bannock, Maricopa, Malad, Blackfoot. 
May 19th and 20th Teton. 
May 25th and 26th Bingham, Portneuf, St. Joseph, Pocatello, Young. 
June 1st and 2nd Rigby, Panguitch, Big Horn, Idaho, San Luis. 
June 8th and 9th Uintah, Kanab, Morgan, Oneida. 
June 15th and 16th St. George, North Sanpete, Star Valley, Union. 
June 22nd and 23rd Sevier, Fremont, Bear Lake, Deseret, Carbon, Parowan. 
June 29th and 30th Duchesne, Montpelier. 
July 20th and 21st Benson, Hyrum, Tooele, Tintic. 
July 27th and 28th Wasatch, Woodruff, Cassia, Yellowstone, Beaver. 
August 3rd and 4th Boise. 
November (dates to be arranged later) Alpine, Bear River, Box Elder, Cache, Carbon, Cottonwood, South Davis, Ensign, Granite, Jordan, Liberty, Nebo, North Davis, North Weber, Ogden, Pioneer, Salt Lake, Summit, Utah, Weber. 

NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 

277 PROGRAM 

For Stakes holding conferences in connection with quarterly conferences: 

First Session. Meeting of Stake Officers and Stake Board Members, Saturday, 4:00 p.m. 
Second Session. General Session, Saturday, 7:00 p.m. 
Third Session. Public Session, Quarterly Conference, Sunday, morning. 

Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary. 

Annual Dues. It is very gratifying to the General Board that so many stakes are making a point of sending in the annual dues in January of each year. It is evident that the change of time for paying dues from March to January is very satisfactory. 

Wheat. A question came to the General Relief Society Office recently asking how wheat money should be sent in to the Presiding Bishop's Office. As other societies may not understand the proper procedure in this matter, we give the following ruling in the matter by the Presiding Bishop's Office. All money sent to the Presiding Bishop's Office for the purchase and storage of wheat, should be sent directly to the Presiding Bishop's Office from the ward societies, rather than to have it go through the stakes. This arrangement makes it much easier for the Bishop's Office to take care of the wheat accounts, and the receipts for wheat are sent directly to the ward presidents. The General Board, therefore, recommends that, when money is to be sent to the Presiding Bishop's Office, for wheat, that it be sent directly from the ward treasurer to the Presiding Bishop's Office. 

Bound Copies of Relief Society Magazine. While the subscription list of the Magazine is very large, it is surprising how few members of the Relief Society are having their magazines bound. Each stake and ward should make it a point to have bound volumes of the Magazine for future reference. 

Alberta Stake. Mrs. Fannie B. Spencer, President of the Del Bonita Branch of the Relief Society, writes that her little Society is so isolated that were it not for the Relief Society Magazine it would be almost impossible to keep up with the work of the organization. She states that last year they had ten members and that eight of them were subscribers to the Magazine. It is a wonderful showing to have 80% of the enrolled members on the Magazine subscription list. 

Benson Stake. Report comes from Benson stake that one of the small wards of thirty-six members has twenty-seven subscribers to the Magazine. 

South Davis Stake. For the convenience of stake board members the officers of the South Davis stake make appointments the first of the year for the visits of board members to the various wards. Each board member is expected to visit officially one ward each month and with the appointments made at the beginning of the year, board members are able to make the necessary plans and preparations for visits. A typewritten list of these appointments is furnished each board member, so that no misunderstanding occurs. During the past year, every fifth Tuesday has been devoted by Relief Society members to special visits to the sick and aged who cannot attend the Relief Society meetings. In some associations the women have made it a practice to spend one whole day a month with each sick and aged person, while other associations have special teachers whose duty it is to see that the sick and aged are not allowed to become lonely. One association has furnished some very complete layettes for mothers. Irrespective of this, a great deal of interest is being manifested in Temple work. Once each month a group representing all of the wards visits the Temple. In some instances there are fifteen representatives from a single ward.

Eight Liberty Bonds have been purchased in this stake. The Stake Board purchased one, and one ward in the stake bought two. The Stake Board has just completed a very successful tour through the stake with an entertainment which they arranged with the help of the ward associations. They were assisted by a number of young girls. Each Society was represented in some feature of the program which was in a large measure original; $120.00 net was cleared from these performances for philanthropic work.

Idaho Stake. The Relief Society of the Idaho stake has been asked to assist in furnishing the Idaho Stake Tabernacle. The women are, therefore, arranging for socials and other entertainments through which they expect to raise money for this purpose.

NOTES FROM THE FIELD.

Panguitch Stake. In order to keep in the closest possible touch with the ward work, the Panguitch Stake Relief Society officers require the following written report monthly from the various wards:

RELIEF SOCIETY MONTHLY REPORT.

Ward  
Stake  
Month  
Year  
Number of meetings held  
Attendance at each meeting  
Class work 1st subject  
Class work 2nd subject  
Class work 3rd subject  
Class work 4th subject  

ACTIVITIES.  
Charity Fund  
General Fund  
Days spent with sick  
Number of special visits to sick  
Money donated for Temple work  
Number of days spent in Temple work  
Number of visits by teachers  
President  
1st Counselor  
Secretary  
2nd Counselor  

COURAGE.  
By Mrs. Parley Nelson.

'Tis easy to smile when the skies are blue,  
With song birds trilling the whole day through;  
While roses nod o'er the garden wall,  
And over the earth bright sunbeams fall.  
'Tis easy to sing when the heart is gay,  
When rose-tints herald the dawn of day;  
When rippling brooks and droning bees  
Call to each other 'neath blossoming trees.  
When storm clouds lower and life's agloom,  
Only the brave heart keeps in tune.  
There's depth to a soul that can sing in the rain  
And smile in the presence of sorrow and pain.

War Economy in Clothes.

MAKING OVER.  
By Lillian Cannon.

In the March number of the Magazine, the subject of darning and patching was discussed. In the making over of old clothes we will consider only that clothing which is no longer fit for the purpose for which it was made. Cutting down or making over is always attended with some waste of material, so it is no war economy to make over anything that can be worn as it is with a little cleaning, darning, or patching. It makes the truly economical person almost weep to see a perfectly good dress of an adult cut down to make a dress for a small child, or a good overcoat of a man cut down to make a child's coat.

At the present time there is a shortage of wool in the nation. The army and navy need wool clothing. Soldiers and sailors are exposed to the weather and must be protected. Wool material is the only kind that will adequately clothe them. There has been a heavy drain on our production of wool for this purpose. Our supply from Australia is practically cut off as the ships that were used to bring wool to us from that country are now used to carry food to the starving people in Europe. Civilians must economize in wool materials in order to furnish the necessary supply to the army and navy.

The problem of wool supply became so serious that the Commercial Economy Board of the Council of National Defense have done what they could to solve it. This Board tries to teach the importance of economy in seemingly trivial things, because the aggregate waste in the nation is large, even in small individual cases. This Board sent representatives to the fashion makers, the tailors and the manufacturers of men's, women's and children's clothing to see if they could help in the matter. All responded patriotically, and as a result cloth which was formerly used for mere ornamentation is now saved for essential things.

One item alone shows what an immense saving in the aggregate is made from slight individual savings. It has been the custom of manufacturers of wool cloth to send large samples to tailors. The Commercial Economy Board thought these samples were unnecessarily generous and asked the manufacturers if they wouldn't reduce the size. This they did only a few inches, but the total savings from a comparatively small group of tailors amounted to 223,108 yards. These facts being true, utilizing the wool material on hand by each family in the most economical way would result in an immense saving in the aggregate. Father's worn-out trousers.

If father has a business that requires him to "dress up" for it, he will probably discard clothes long before they are worn out. Don't cut down a pair of eight-dollar trousers to make a child's pair worth one dollar and a half. Mend and clean them and give them to someone who will wear them as they are, or if you feel that you can't afford to give them away, sell them for the price of a pair for the small boy and buy him new ones. If they are too badly worn out for further wear as they are, make a pair for the small boy with them. By reinforcing worn places with invisible patches on the wrong side and by "piecing," two pairs of small trousers can be made from one large pair. Cut the two pairs of backs from the backs of the large trousers and the two pairs of fronts from the large fronts. Work strong buttonholes on new, unbleached muslin, and make the pockets of like material. Father's old coats can be used for the boy's trousers, if the material is matched carefully and pieced to make it large enough for the pattern. Father's worn-out shirts. The material in men's clothing is much better, as a rule, than that in women's clothing. The reason probably is (and it is said to their credit) men wear their clothing longer than women wear theirs, so better material must be used. The styles change but little from year to year, and if a man buys a good suit he doesn't discard it until it is worn out. Good material is used in father's best shirts. They are usually worn out first at the collars and cuffs. There is much good material left in them when he can't wear them any longer. They can be made into dainty aprons for mother for afternoon wear. Make a gored apron using the back of the shirt for the front gore and the two parts of the front of the shirt for the side gores. Make the bib and strings and pockets from the sleeves. The "little boy's" blouses can be made from the shirts. Father's best shirts are usually of light colors, so they make fine blouses for "little boy's" very best. The back of the blouse can be made of the back of the shirt and the front of the blouse from the fronts of the shirt, the sleeves from the top part of the shirt sleeves and the collars and cuffs from the tail of the shirt. If "little boy" wears it only for best it will last him over a year and will look well to the very last. The shirts may also be used to make bib aprons for "little girl" to keep her Sunday frock clean. If silk shirts are worn for best, they can be made into beautiful waists for the "young lady" of the house. OLD DRESSES. In handling a subject so large, space will not permit one to go much into details. Only a few general directions can be given. The first thing to remember is that whatever is worth doing at all is worth doing well. Pick the old dress entirely to pieces. Clean and wash and press thoroughly. In the washing of most materials nothing is better than good soap and warm water. Make a good suds first, then immerse the goods and squeeze with the hands. Do not rub. When clean, rinse in warm water. It may be ironed immediately, or may be partially dried first. Iron on the wrong side until thoroughly dry. Skirts are narrow now, so there should be enough material to make a complete dress. As a rule it does not pay to buy new material to use with the old. If expensive, it is apt to make the old material look more old in contrast and does not give the satisfaction an entirely new dress or even a new blouse can give. In this day of combination of materials, try combining two old dresses, for example, serge and silk or satin of the same color or black, with any other color, or plaid with a plain color. Save what you might spend for new material until you have enough to buy an entirely new skirt or blouse or dress, then buy thrift stamps or bonds with the money and help Uncle Sam win the war. Buy a good pattern, read the directions carefully and cut the dress from it. Then there will be but a small chance for making mistakes. Cut out and sew as carefully as if you were making a new dress.

HOME-MADE GOODS

It is in order now, after President Smith's rousing talk on Home Industry, at Conference, to suggest that our sisters secure some Provo Woollen Mills cloth for dresses and boys' trousers. While busy fingers could well engage in knitting good, long-wearing socks for father and the boys to wear in the coming winter season. This will relieve the stocking machines and permit them to work altogether for the soldiers.

May Entertainments. By Morag.

The sweet old May Day custom of hanging baskets of spring flowers on your friends' doors, is a charming way to remember the aged, the home-bound, and the sick. Send a few flowers to all such with a cheery greeting. Remember and keep Mother's Day—visit her, write to her, send her some flowers. Her heart is heavy and sad this year, with her boys so far away. Celebrate Parents' Day in your schools, churches and homes with music, song and oratory. Keep "Better Baby" week. Remember Decoration Day, our patriotic holiday. Visit the graves of the loved ones. Display "Old Glory," and attend the patriotic exercises. Decoration Day is a fitting time to hold and organize family genealogical associations.

SPRING PARTIES

Cost little but you will find them lots of fun.

STORK PARTY

Better Baby week comes in May, and stork showers are in order this month for waiting mothers. It would be nice to make this a luncheon for one o'clock. Decorate the rooms and table with apple blossoms, and serve a "Hoover" luncheon. Place-cards may be decorated with baby heads, or a "mother" quotation. Napkins may be folded and pinned with safety-pins. After luncheon, the gifts may be presented to the guest of honor, and the afternoon may be spent hemming dainty baby towels, provided by the hostess—the workers instructed to embroider the word "Baby" in pink or blue cross-stitch. The following questions may be written on cards and answered by the guests: What hood is most becoming to women? What hood is most interesting? What acts as baby's main security? What do mothers and sailors most dread? What article of bedding does baby resemble? What part of baby's clothing is musical? What food is paternal in name? Answers: 1. Motherhood. 2. Babyhood. 3. Safety-pin. 4. Squalls. 5. Comforter. 6. Band. 7. Pap.

284 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

Sentiments for Place Cards.

"Children are the anchors that hold a mother to life." "Every child pays its way." "Hearts grow fit for heaven molded by childish hands." "The mother's heart is the child's schoolroom." "The Lord could not be everywhere, so he made mothers." "So children are a heritage from the Lord."

A NOVEL ANNOUNCEMENT.

From sweet Isaiah's sacred song, ninth chapter and verse six, first thirteen words please take, and then the following affix: From Genesis the thirty-fifth, verse seventeen, no more. Then add verse twenty-six of Kings, book second, chapter four. The last two verses, chapter first, first book of Samuel. And you will learn what on that day, your loving son befell. What happened?

A GARDEN SHOWER FOR THE SPRING BRIDE.

A delightful shower was recently held at the new suburban home of a spring bride. A dozen or more of her women friends gathered on a spring afternoon, each provided with a thrifty shrub, rose bush or root of perennial flowers. Such a jolly time they had, planting their various offerings. Their men folks were not to be outdone, and as evening drew on, each appeared with a box or crate bearing a live chicken or rabbit. Much amusement resulted as the various fowls were deposited in the brand new chicken coop, and a humorous account of how the fowl was obtained was given. Refreshments were served, and the guests left before dark. New home makers in the country, even if not brides, would surely appreciate this kind of a shower. For the bride who makes her home in town, a house plant shower is appropriate. Slips, cuttings and various bulbs may be potted at home, or bought for a few cents at a florist's, but a word of caution, if such a shower is given, be sure the plants are well rooted beforehand, or they may prove a disappointment. A program of floral music, or one of the many floral guessing games, with light refreshments will round out a happy afternoon.

EDITORIAL

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah.

Motto: Charity Never Faileth

THE GENERAL BOARD

Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President  
Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor  
Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor  
Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary  
Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary  
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer  
Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon  
Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas  
Miss Sarah McLelland  
Dr. Romania B. Penrose  
Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox  
Mrs. Elizabeth C.

Crismon  
Mrs. Emily S. Richards  
Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley  
Mrs. Janette A. Hyde  
Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth  
Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune  
Miss Sarah Eddington  
Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie  
Miss Edna May Davis  
Miss Lillian Cameron  
Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry  
Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director  
Miss Edna Coray, Organist  

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE  
Editor Susa Young Gates  
Business Manager Janette A Hyde  
Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman  
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah  

Vol. V. MAY, 1918. No. 5  

FREE AGENCY.  

The great war which covers the earth today  
The War Be-  
with the fire and smoke of battle is fought,  
tween Earthly  
not alone between nations, and between kings  
and Divine  
and potentates. It is the same old struggle  
Forces.  
which took place in heaven, based on the free  
agency of man. Shall men be coerced and  
policed into goodness and intelligence, or shall  
they be left free to choose their own course?  
Many of them prefer disobedience to law and  
its penalties to keeping laws which are arbi-  
trarily laid down by superior earthly or even  
divine intelligences. When a mother bemoaned  
to Congressman  
Free Will.  
Howell the loose moral surroundings of our  
young people, and wished she could rear her  
boys where there was no smoking, gambling or  
Sabbath-breaking, the Congressman smiled and  
replied: "There is such a place—the peniten-  
tiary." Freedom rests upon the will—the will  
to obey or the will to disobey law or persons in  
authority. Obedience to law, with the funda-  
mental guidance of infancy and maturity, must  
form the concrete foundation of that society,  
where liberty reigns.  

286 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.  

Just here, then, is the dividing line. The Ger-  
The German  
man government possesses one of the strong-  
Government.  
est and most efficient governmental machines  
on this earth, while this Church is the most  
perfectly organized religious body in the world.  
The eternity-wide difference rests upon the free  
agency of man. The German government has  
developed to their highest power the funda-  
mental principles of order, system and obedi-  
ence to human law, with much that makes for  
earthly culture, social safety, and community  
welfare. But the German government rests  
upon the will and the skill of one man, who  
forces people to be clean, comfortable and  
educated and who polices them into safety and  
unity; a man who achieved his position through  
the accident of birth, and who asks no man nor  
set of men for their suffrages. The student of  
the Bible and of the Book of Mormon who is  
familiar with the divine displeasure there ex-  
pressed concerning the rule of kings cannot fail  
to comprehend the evil results to a nation or a  
people who prefer pomp and ceremony under  
either good or bad kings to the self-control and  
liberty of will gained through wise republican  
forms of government.  

The Russian people today illustrate this prin-  
Poor Russia.  
ciple. Overturning the rule of kings, through  
one supreme united force, they lack cohesion  
of interest and an inspired leader, while none  
know how to take advantage of the hard-won  
freedom. Likely they will again put the yoke on—  
the sullen but easy yoke—of thralldom upon  
their shoulders because they know not the dif-  
ference between liberty and license, as they  
have no unselfish leaders to guide, neither do  
they possess in the mass, trained personal wills.  

The German Latter-day Saints see the differ-  
ence clearly between the free agency of this  
American government, and especially of this  
divinely organized Church, and of the inherited  
autocracy of the fatherland. They are standing  
firm and loyal to the flag of their adopted  
country; for they realize that freedom of will  
and the free agency of man is couched in the  
inspired American Declaration of Independence:  
"All men are created free and equal," and all  
"have an equal right to life, liberty and the  
pursuit of happiness." They know that the  
rulers of this nation hold office only as the  
people elect them, and that each man and  
woman in America holds equal opportunity,  
equal power with every other man and woman  
citizen. They know also that in so far as  
England, Italy, or even France, lacks the full  
powers and liabilities of free citizenship, in so  
far as any nation sets up kings and rulers who  
have dominion over the people, their man-made  

EDITORIAL. 287  

rule will be broken, and republican forms of  
government will take the place of kingdoms  
and principalities. This war, therefore, will  
crush and finally destroy man-made kingdoms,  
the rule of one man without the consent of the  
governed people themselves, while kings and  
rulers who drink of the wine of the fornication  
of Babylon will be thrown down to earth and  
utterly destroyed. It is Gog and Magog. Who  
are you?  

A German, an Englishman, or are you a citizen of the land of freedom, and of Zion? Liberty grows only in republics. Who can fail to see the influence which actuates the Prussian military leaders who would force people into culture, and police people into goodness, and the true American spirit which wages this war that men may be free to choose with liberty for all. Let us quote here some fiery and thrilling utterances of one of America's greatest, wisest and most famous Americans of German birth—Otto H. Kahn. He is not only an international financier, he is as well, a noted patron of arts, letters and science. His counsel is sought in Washington. He is doing powerful war service through lectures and addresses before great audiences of legal, commercial and social bodies, especially those of German-American birth in all the great American cities. Intelligent and loyal himself, he speaks with the authority born of knowledge and of patriotism: "I was and am proud of the great inheritance which came to me as a birthright and of the illustrious contributions which the German people have made to the imperishable assets of the world. Until the outbreak of the war in 1914, I maintained close and active personal and business relations in Germany. I was well acquainted with a number of the leading personages of the country. I served in the German army thirty years ago. I took an active interest in furthering German art in America. "I do not apologize for, nor am I ashamed of, my German birth. But I am ashamed—bitterly and grievously ashamed—of the Germany which stands convicted before the high tribunal of the world's public opinion of having planned and willed war; of the revolting deeds committed in Belgium and northern France, of the infamy of the Lusitania murders, of innumerable violations of The Hague Convention and the laws of nations, of abominable and perfidious plotting in friendly countries and shameless abuse of their hospitality, of crime heaped upon crime in hideous defiance of the laws of God and men. "I cherish the memories of my youth, but these very memories make me cry out in pain and wrath against those who have 288 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. befouled the spiritual soil of the old Germany, in which they were rooted. "I revere the high ideals and fine traditions of that old Germany and the time-honored conceptions of right conduct which my parents and the teachers of my early youth bade me treasure throughout life, but all the more burning is my resentment, all the more deeply grounded my hostility, against the Prussian caste who trampled those ideals, traditions and conceptions in the dust. "To co-operate towards the successful conclusion of the war is the one and supreme duty of every American, regardless of birth, of sympathies and of political views. The American of German descent who, in this time of test and trial, does not serve the land of his adoption with the utmost measure of single-minded devotion and with every ounce of his power, perjured himself when he took his oath of allegiance and proves himself guilty of treacherous duplicity. "Thank heaven, the number of those lukewarm in their patriotism, or failing in loyalty, is very small indeed, far too small to affect the record of Americans of German birth for good citizenship and service to the country in peace and war. "There is abundant evidence that the overwhelming majority, indeed all but an insignificant minority, meant what they said when they swore full and sole allegiance to America, that they will prove themselves wholly worthy of the high privilege of citizenship and of the generous trust of their native fellow citizens, and that they will not fail or falter under any test whatsoever. "We will not permit the blood in our veins to drown the conscience in our breast. We will heed the call of honor beyond the call of race. "There are some of you, probably, who will still find it hard to believe that the Germany you knew can be guilty of the crimes which have made it an outlaw amongst the nations. But do you know modern Germany? Unless you have been there within the last twenty-five years, not once or twice, but at regular intervals; unless you have looked below the glittering surface of the marvelous material progress and achievement and seen how the soul of Germany was being eaten away by the virulent poison of Prussianism; unless you have watched and followed the appalling transformation of German mentality and morality under the nefarious and puissant influence of the priesthood of power-worship, you do not know the Germany of this day and generation. "It is not the Germany of old, the land of our affectionate remembrance.

It is not the Germany which men now of middle age or over knew in their youth. It is not the Germany of the first Emperor William, a modest and God-fearing gentleman. It is not the Germany, even, of Bismarck, man of blood and iron though he was, who had builded a structure which, whilst not founded on liberty, yet was capable and gave promise of going down into history as one of the greatest examples of enlightened and even beneficent autocracy; who, in the contemplative and mellowed wisdom of his old age, often warned the nation against the very spirit which, alas, came to have sway over it, and against the very war which that spirit unchained. "The Germany which brought upon the world the immeasurable disaster of this war, and at whose monstrous deeds and doctrines the civilized nations of the earth stand aghast, started into definite being less than thirty years ago. I can almost lay my finger upon the date and circumstances of its ill-omened advent. "Less than thirty years ago, a 'new course' was flamboyantly proclaimed by those in authority, and the term 'new course' became the order of the day. With it and from it there came a truly marvelous quickening of the energies and creative abilities of the nation, a period of material achievement and of social progress; in short, a national forward movement almost unequalled in history. The world looked on in admiration, perhaps not entirely free from a tinge of envy. Germany was conquering the earth by peaceful penetration; and no one stood in its way. It had free access to all the seas and all the lands. "But with that 'new course' and from it there also came a new god, a false and evil god. He exacted as sacrifices for his altars the time-honored ideals of the fathers, and other high and noble things. And his commands were obeyed. "There came upon the German people a whole train of new and baneful influences and impulses, formidably stimulating as a powerful drug. There came, amongst other evils, materialism and covetousness and irreligion; overweening arrogance, an impatient contempt for the rights of the weak, a mania for world dominion, and a veritable lunacy of power worship. There came also a fixed and irrational distrust of the intentions of other nations, for the evil which had crept into their own souls made them see evil in others, and that distrust was nurtured carefully and deliberately by those in authority. "And, finally, there came 'the day' in which the 'new course,' fatally and inevitably, was bound to culminate. There came the old temptation, as old as humanity itself. The Tempter took the Prussian and Prussianized rulers up a high mountain and showed them all the riches and power of the world. Showed them the great countries and capitals of the earth teeming with peaceful labor Brussels, Paris, London, aye, and New York, and told them: 'Look at these. Use your power ruthlessly and they are yours.' And those rulers did not say: 'Get thee behind me, Satan;' but they said: 'Lead on, Satan, and we shall follow thee.' And follow him they did, and brought upon the green earth the red ruin of hell." "The things which made Germany great are not dead, and the world cannot afford to allow them to die. They belong to the immortal possessions of the human race. "They have passed, for the time being, alas, out of the keeping of the mass of the Germans, whose glorious inheritance they were. "They are now in the keeping of that minority, not perhaps, very great as yet, but growing steadily, of men in Germany itself from whose eyes the scales have begun to fall. They are in the keeping of all the nations who appreciate and cherish and are determined to maintain those great and high things which the civilized world has attained through the toil, sacrifice and suffering of its best in the course of many centuries. And, above all, they are in the keeping of the ten or fifteen millions of Americans of German descent. "As that great American of German birth, Carl Schurz, and many other brave and high-minded Germans my own father, I am proud to say, among them in 1848 stood in arms against Prussian oppression, for liberal ideas and right and truth and freedom, so do we stand now. In fighting for the cause of America as loyal Americans, we are fighting at the same time for the deliverance of the country of our birth from those unrighteous powers which hold it enthralled and feed upon its soul." "The spirit of Prussianism and the spirit of Americanism cannot live in the same world.

One or the other must conquer." "And when Heaven grant it may be soon! the soul of the German people will have freed itself from the sinister powers that now keep it in ban and bondage, when it will have found again the high impulses and aims of its former self, when it will once more understand and speak the universal language of humanity and right, then, in God's own time there will be peace." We suggest the reading of this editorial in all our ward Relief Society meetings. Good will result from these stirring words of Mr. Otto H. Kahn. 

Guide Lessons. 

LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in June. 

AGRICULTURE AND STOCK RAISING AMONG BOOK OF MORMON PEOPLES. 

A learned and particularly well traveled gentleman who chanced to be in the state of Utah a few weeks ago, responded to a remark in relation to the beauty and profusion of the flowers in Brighton, Utah, that nowhere in all his travels, and, by the way, travel is his business, has he ever seen such beautiful flowers as he saw while in the Holy Land. From this land of flowers, Lehi and his followers went forth to South America, their first abiding place, where the vegetation is rank and luxuriant, and all nature is featured in "the large." The inspiration of the Almighty God, coupled with innate practical sense, had led them to carry with them seed grains, that they might produce food, when they arrived in the land that they were slowly being guided to by the sure hand of Providence. Peoples who pioneer, who build up new lands, must always make agriculture fundamental. It can never cease to be of first importance to any civilization; but in a new country it must of necessity receive an emphasis out of all proportion to the emphasis placed on any other occupation or industry. Moreover, if conditions of society become unusual, the importance of agriculture is at once apparent. The present war has made the art and science of producing food the paramount industry of the whole world. Seeking for information in relation to the Jaredites and their agricultural and stock-raising pursuits, we find the following significant paragraphs in Ether 9:16, 17, 18: "And the Lord began again to take the curse from off the land, and the house of Emer did prosper exceedingly under the reign of Emer; and in the space of sixty and two years, they had become exceedingly strong, insomuch that they became exceedingly rich. "Having all manner of fruit, and of grain, and of silks, and of fine linen, and of gold, and of silver, and of precious things. 

292 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. 

"And also all manner of cattle, of oxen, and cows, and of sheep, and of swine, and of goats, and also many other kind of animals which were useful for food of man. "And they also had horses and asses." Nor did they till the ground with the primitive instruments used by many peoples in earlier ages. These peoples on this Western continent had learned the art of making tools. "And they did make all manner of tools to till the earth, both to plough and to sow, and to reap and to hoe, and also to thresh. "And they did make all manner of tools with which they did work their beasts" (Ether 10:25, 26). History was young in the making, with Lehi and his little band, when we learn something definite in relation to their agricultural activities, as well as the animals which they speedily used to sustain life and further their civilization. "And it came to pass that we did begin to till the earth, and we began to plant seeds; yea, we did put all our seeds into the earth, which we had brought from the land of Jerusalem. And it came to pass that they did grow exceedingly; wherefore we were blessed in abundance. "And it came to pass that we did find upon the land of promise, as we journeyed in the wilderness, that there were beasts in forests of every kind, both the cow and the ox, and the ass and the horse, and the goat and the wild goat, and all manner of wild animals; which were for the use of man" (I Nephi 18:24, 25). Lehi's people seemed to rejoice greatly when they discovered that such grains as wheat, corn and barley would grow and flourish in their new found home. Nor do we wonder at this rejoicing, for all persons know that these grains are staples. Wheat, corn and barley were known to the peoples of Bible lands. Oats appear not to be mentioned either in the Bible or Book of Mormon.

Rye is mentioned in the Bible, but the word seldom appears. However, the Nephites speak of two grains which they called neas and sheum, for which no English equivalent seems to have been available. Fruit grew in abundance, on this land, under the careful cultivation of its horticulturists. Often they speak of vineyards and grape culture. They made wine which was sometimes used for worthy purposes, but often as an aid to accomplish the most diabolical of crimes. No land is more wonderful than this land of America in the production of fruits, for all the fruits of both temperate and tropical climes are native to it, and the peoples who earlier inhabited this continent had a variety of fruit.

GUIDE LESSONS. 293

The wisdom of a wise policy seldom appears all at once. No doubt the protection from their enemies appeared to the Nephites the chiefest reason why they should build in communities and then go forth from these settlements and till their soil; just as in the pioneer days of Utah the people built forts in which they gathered to protect themselves from the Indians. Protection, however, is only one of the blessings afforded to people who build hamlets, towns and cities, and then go forth to their labors on the farm or in the mine, as necessity requires. All the religious, intellectual and social uplift that is a part of the life of those who live in communities is lost to those who scatter great distances and live on immense farms. Persons thus isolated can seldom gather at the church, the school, the amusement hall, and in too many instances they are without the church, the school and the amusement hall; for the simple reason that being without the community they lack also the valuable assets of community effort. That the Latter-day Saints have made history for themselves in this respect was made most noticeable in 1913, when the National Education Association met in Salt Lake City. Many excursions were made by the visitors into surrounding counties. Again and again, these men, used to school supervision, remarked: "Why, you are practically without the rural school problem; a problem that is proving most vexatious and difficult to cope with in many parts of our country." Now, the same advantage and opportunities that are ours through having grouped ourselves in settlements, were undoubtedly enjoyed in large or small measure by the Nephites. The inspired leadership of President Brigham Young, and the stalwart men and women who builded with him is the source to which we trace the superiority of our community life; and we doubt not, could we hold converse with the Nephites, that they would attribute the advantages of their community life in their agricultural districts to precisely similar sources. Another point of resemblance between our methods and their methods of agriculture, will be readily recognized when we say that there is every reason to believe that they knew and applied the science of irrigation in arid regions. In other parts, as with us, they depended on the rainfall, and were greatly distressed over a season of drought. If the Latter-day Saints are to be distinguished because of what they have contributed to the world's knowledge in relation to irrigation, what shall we say of these former-day Saints, the Nephites, who dwelt upon this continent many centuries ago?

294 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

PROBLEMS AND QUESTIONS.

1. Why must agriculture be a fundamental vocation of all peoples?
2. Why does a crisis or universal condition in the economic life of the people, bring the importance of agriculture immediately to the fore? Illustrate.
3. Did the peoples of the Book of Mormon know anything of the manufacture of tools to carry on their work? Quote passage in proof of contention.
4. Tell why the Nephites would rejoice greatly when they discovered that such grains as wheat, corn and barley would grow in their new found home.
5. Account for the Nephites finding the cow, horse, oxen and ass, the goat and wild goat, in the woods and forests of this country.
6. Why would you expect the inhabitants of America, if industrious, to have a great variety of fruit to eat?
7. Would the Lamanites, when nomadic, caring most for the hunt, have the fruit and grains to eat that the Nephites would?
8. Discuss the advantage coming to people who, living in agricultural districts, build communities and work together.
9. What disadvantage must be borne by persons who, cultivating farms, elect to live on these farms far away from others?
10. What practice that has distinguished the Latter-day Saints in the cultivation of the soil, was in vogue to an extent among the Nephites?

LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in June.

LESSON III. Genealogy. Third Week in June.

ENGLISH RACIAL HISTORY, 55 B.C. TO 1066 A.D. We have seen that the northern European nations were all descended from the Teutonic race: the Franks and Germans from the Goths, the Scandinavians, Saxons and Normans from the Northmen, and the Welsh, Irish and Scotch from the Celts, all coming down probably from the sons of Japheth. The Latin races who are descended through Togarmah, son of Gomer, son of Japheth, are essentially different from the Teutonic races, although modern historians group them all together. The Latins are excitable, erratic, artistic, and are keenly susceptible to the Catholic religion, a religion of sensuous emotionalism; the Irish, among the Celtic remnants, seem akin to the Latin in this and many other traits. On the contrary, the Teutons, that is, the Scandinavians, Germans, English, Dutch, Swiss, German and Normans, are less emotional, require a religion which appeals to mind and heart alike, and are steady, sane and reasonable. It is through the Teutonic races that the Gospel has come, heralded by the Reformation, helped by the Huguenots, Puritans and Pilgrims, finally reaching its culmination in the revelations of the Lord Jesus Christ, through the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith.

Great Britain. We will now consider the racial history and general history of Great Britain which includes the countries known as England, Scotland, Ireland and Wales, from the Christian era down to William the Conqueror, 55-1600 A.D. The country was inhabited at an early period by the Celtic race, subdivided into Britons, Picts and Scots. The Welsh are descended from the Britons, the Scots and the Irish from the Picts and Scots; yet the Irish proper seem quite like a distinct people even today. The Celts are supposed to have conquered and driven out a savage race inferior to themselves in civilization and strength. About the same time that Wales was settled by the Britons, the Scots settled in Ireland, passing from there at a later period over to Scotland, where they conquered and settled up the northern part which was called after them, Scotia or Scotland. The island of Britain was known to the ancient Phoenicians who were mariners and tradespeople. The Phoenicians carried on a thriving trade with the people of Cornwall, exchanging their goods for the tin found in that region. The people of these islands were divided into different tribes, each under its own chieftain. They lived in rude earthen huts and often built their little towns on hills, raising mud walls as fortifications. Sometimes their hamlets were built upon piles raised in the marshes. When we first hear of them there was a little town life with market centers, and in the southern part of England the natives used gold coinage with a currency of iron bars or ingots. The religion of these people was pagan, with perhaps, we might say, a corrupted traditionary remnant of ancient patriarchal forms of life and worship. The priesthood were called Druids, and here as in France or Gaul, they practiced magical arts and offered human sacrifices with secret rites and ceremonies. The priest took no part in wars or politics.

Caesar's Invasion. Julius Caesar crossed the Straits of Dover from Gaul, or what is now known as France, in the year 55 B.C. He landed in Deal, England. He made no permanent conquests, but he wrote a little account of the Britons, saying that there were numerous buildings and that the people were very rich in cattle and were well skilled in driving their chariots. In 43 A.D., the Emperor Claudius took an expedition up to Britain and conquered the people of Essex and Hertfordshire, making their capital Camulodunum, now Colchester, the seat of the Roman government. The emperor returned, leaving Vespasian in command. A subsequent battle in the Welsh mountains occurred where the Celts were routed by the Romans, the Britons headed by a chief Caradoc or Caractacus, being taken prisoner. The chief was carried a prisoner to Rome, and the story is told that he wondered, after seeing the splendors of that great city, why the Roman Emperor should desire his poor island. The Roman legions finally drove out the Celtic race from England proper, confining them to Ireland, Scotland and Wales. With the establishment of a military despotism came the language of the Conqueror, but if Latin, which was established then, was the language of the Court and of the foreign officials and soldiers, the people did not adopt it to any extent, for the Celtic tongue, after all, is the basis of the French, Spanish and Portuguese languages. A certain civilization was engrafted upon the English people through this conquest.

Laws were enacted, garrisons were established, and finally some elements of civilization were introduced into these pagan islands. Caractacus and Boadicia. 43-61 A. D. The Welsh Celtic chieftain Caradoc or Caractacus routed the Romans, but was afterwards captured and taken prisoner to Rome. Several years later the Celtic Queen Boadicia whose daughter had been outraged and herself whipped by the Romans, rose up in revolt. She stormed the town of London and laid it in ashes; 70,000 Romans and strangers fell in one day. Saxon Invasions. In the third, fourth and fifth centuries the Saxon pirates invaded Britain and for years fought with the Roman conquerors. In 396 A. D. the Picts and Scots swarmed into Britain, and as the Roman troops were then needed for the advance on Gaul, the islands were left to the Celtic mercy. In the latter part of the fifth century the Jutes crossed the North Sea and conquered southern Britain. Thus, then, were the Picts and Scots on the north, the Angles and Saxons in the center, and the Jutes in the southern part of the isles. The Scandinavian invaders continued to pour forth hordes of rude conquerors on the English shores for the next four or five centuries. They were brave, invincible in war, but they were mercilessly cruel and ferocious. They hated the Christians and destroyed every evidence which the Roman legions had set up of civilization wherever their prowess was victorious. The Saxons had destroyed and driven out the Celts, and now the other Teutonic tribe from Denmark's shores endeavored to wipe out the Angles and Saxons who had gained possession of the most of England. Here for several centuries several Teutonic tribes struggled for mastery. The Jutes and Danes, the Angles and Saxons, fought each other fiercely. Finally, in the course of centuries, the exigencies of life united the three peoples into one race, who were called the Anglo-Saxons, but this was not done without a struggle. Anglo-Saxon Social Customs. The homestead was the social center of Anglo-Saxon civilization. The setheling or eorl established himself in the center of his little village or c-ethel. His retainers inhabited, each his own little croft where they lorded it over the lowlier freelings or ceorls who tilled the land and did the menial work of the village. The "freeling" was a descendant, probably, of the earliest Celtic settler. The eorl was lifted above his fellow villager, through birth and some degree of wealth. His followers held him in reverence, while his descendants were the "host leaders" or warriors who led the tribe in times of war. However, the eorl's position rested wholly on the acceptance of his fellow villagers. Every freeman had his vote and he was the foundation or unit of society. His long hair floated over a neck which had never bowed to a lord. He was called a "free-necked" man, or the weapon-man, preserving to himself the right of revenge or individual warfare, which in a primitive state of society was made necessary. There was a lower strata of villagers who were called lacf or zillicns. These were tillers of the soil, the tradesmen. Of these were slaves, war captives, debtors, criminals, children sold into bondage by parents; they thus became part of the farm live-stock of the eorl. "Mine is the calf born of my cow." The eorl himself held his position through purity of descent from the original Saxon settlers and encouraged his ambitious sons and nephews to bind themselves as comrades to the king or a neighboring chief. The chieftain gave his warriors horses, arms, and a seat in his mead or beer hall with occasional gifts from his treasury. His comrades or thegns were bound to follow him into any fight or quarrel which he chose to make. The Anglo-Saxon customs engrafted themselves upon the Scandinavian conquerors. As has been said, from the eighth to the eleventh century the Scandinavian hordes infested England and finally amalgamated with the races there. Alfred the Great. In 871 Alfred the Great, a Saxon king, ascended the English throne. The kingdom was owned practically half of it at least by the Danes. War followed war, and Alfred at last succeeded in forcing the Scandinavian armies into the northwestern part of England. Alfred was one of the most remarkable kings who ever sat upon the throne. He rebuilt London and established many cities destroyed by the Danes, rebuilt Christian churches and formed a regular militia for the defense of the kingdom. He established his laws rather upon the Mosaic code and held England, than upon the imperial edicts of Rome. He fostered education and founded the University of Oxford. He died in 901 and was succeeded by his son Edward.

a much weaker king. Malcolm, King of the Scots. Malcolm, the Scottish king, was given possession of Cumberland as a fief in the year 943. Scotland emerged as a powerful sub-monarchy about this time: early in the sixth century the Scots had migrated from Ireland settling in large numbers in Caledonia. They brought their Christian religion with them from Ireland and the leader, Fergus MacErc, founded the kingdom of Dalriada in Argyle. Later the Monk Columba, driven from Ireland, came over to Scotland and established a church and began missionary labors among the Picts who were pagans. He established a school of theology and sent missionaries clear to England and the continent, reaching over into Gaul, Switzerland, Germany and Italy. An interesting extract concerning their labors is given by a French historian as follows: "The free church of the Scots and Britons," says D'Aubigne, "did more for the conversion of central Europe than the half-enslaved Church of Rome." "The sages of Iona," says the same writer, "knew nothing of transubstantiation, or of the withdrawal of the cup in the Lord's supper, or of auricular confession, or of prayers for the dead, or tapers, or incense; they celebrated Easter on a different day from Rome; synodal assemblies regulated the affairs of the church, and the papal supremacy was unknown." Various kings succeeded each other on the Scottish throne until 954, when Malcolm died. The line of Kenneth MacAlpin ended with Malcolm the Second in 1034. It was then that the terrible tragedy of Macbeth took place. Thus we have Scotland brought down to this period. Sweyn, the First Danish King of England. A succession of English kings followed Alfred the Great, each weaker than the last. In 994 a powerful fleet under Sweyn, King of Denmark, and Olaf, King of Norway ravaged England so terribly that the Saxon King Ethelred bought his peace through a continuous tax called "danegeld." King Ethelred's weakness encouraged the Danes and they continued their invasions. In 1013 A. D. he conquered the whole of England and was crowned King of England. Now occurred an incident which had a marked effect upon English history and indeed which was the root of all surname history in Great Britain and perhaps in Europe. King Ethelred, the Saxon deposed monarch of England, took refuge in Normandy with his brother-in-law, Duke Richard the Good, forming a lasting treaty of royal friendship and exchange. Thus began a train of events important in their nature. When the Danish-English king Sweyn died in 1014, the Saxon Ethelred went back from Normandy to England. His son Edmund succeeded to the English throne in 1016, but Sweyn's son, Canute, was also reigning in the western part of England. Edmund died shortly after, and Canute seized both thrones and made himself king of all England. Canute was a very great monarch, wise, brave and resourceful. The reign of the Danish King Canute the Great over England was an important and lasting event and one which left an indelible impress on the surnames of Great Britain. The British Anglo-Saxon Danish peoples had advanced rapidly in civic arts, but in 990, during the reign of Ethelred, "the Unready," they were plunged constantly into civil war. Ethelred's son, Edward, who was the last Anglo-Saxon king, was brought up in Normandy. When he found himself, on his ascension to the English throne, beset by Earl Godwin, he called upon his Norman friends to come to his assistance and they came in shoals, thus introducing a new Scandinavian element into English life, as the Normans were originally Norsemen who had settled in Normandy and intermarried with the Franks. Civil war between the Danes and Anglo-Saxons followed on the death of Edward, and his son, Harold, was made king for a very little while, but his right was disputed by William, who was Duke of Normandy (always known as the "bastard," being the illegitimate son of Duke Robert of Normandy, called Robert, "The Devil." William's mother was a pretty washerwoman). William was, therefore, the cousin of Harold, the English king. William claimed that King Edward promised him, when he was succored in Normandy, that he, William, would be his successor because of his help in driving out the Danes; and, furthermore, William declared that Harold, the son, had sworn a solemn oath to ratify that promise. On the death of Edward, William at once sailed from Normandy with a tremendous army, and the Battle of Hastings was fought upon English soil. William the Conqueror. William who was a fierce, bloody, but splendid soldier, was resolved upon appropriating the English throne. He gathered about him an army of reckless and ambitious adventurers, noble in blood, but exhausted in purse through riotous living.

These, his whilom followers and boon companions, he won by promises of great estates and military honors when England was once conquered. It may be said that he was true to his promises. This horde of adventurers, raised by hook and by crook, a great army for those days of mercenary or hired soldiers, landed in the south of England at the port of Hastings. A fierce battle almost immediately followed, called the Battle of Hastings, that battle which was to determine the fate of England. The conflict was fierce and prolonged. The Saxon King Harold fell from an arrow wound through his eye and William was left master of the field. That very day he directed his clerks to gather about him and read the names of his brave and reckless followers, recording them on parchment for future memory and reward. He also directed that an abbey should be built on the site of the battle, and here he caused to be placed the famous and priceless roll of Norman conquerors, which list was laid upon the altar for regular remembrance in masses. William now marched upon London and was crowned in Westminster on Christmas day, 1066. The Gemot of Salisbury. No sooner was William crowned and thoroughly established in England than he proceeded to fulfil his promises to the nobles who had accompanied him to England. He seized upon, by law, all of the manors or estates of England by force of his conquest, wresting the titles from the earls and thegns without leave or license. These estates were grouped into manors which were appropriated by William himself and distributed according to his pleasure, and with some rude justice to the bravest worthies of his followers. Distribution of English Estates. Following is a list of the ten largest holders of land after the Conquest: 1. The King held as many as 1,422 manors 2. The Earl of Mortain held 793 3. Earl Alan of Brittany held 442 4. Odo, Bishop of Bayeux, held 439 5. Gosfrid, Bishop of Coutance, held 280 6. Roger de Busle held 174 7. Ilbert de Laci held 164 8. William Peverel held 162 9. Robert de Stradford held 150 10. Roger de Laci held 116 The ordinary arrangement in every manor was this: It was divided into two parts. One portion was the great home-farm about the seigneurial manor-house, held distinct from that of the tenants. The rest of the manor, called the tenantry part, was divided into small copyholdings, of about nearly equal value, and enjoying equal rights of commonage. This was, however, a constant pressure brought to bear upon the tenantry to reduce their privileges, and the functionaries of the lord were on the alert to pare down their rights. Swarms of under lords and functionaries were maintained. The Social Effect of William's Conquest. The Danish King Canute was both wise enough and adaptable enough to assimilate and amalgamate himself and his policies with the advanced civilization of England which he found when he came over as a boy from his native land. William was neither adaptable nor inherently gracious. He brought with him fixed standards of life and law and he felt nothing for the English but contemptuous tolerance. It is true that Norman civilization was as superior to the English as the English was to the Danish, but why this descendant of Norse or Scandinavian forebears should regard his Anglo-Saxon-Danish subjects of England with such contempt is hard to realize. The Viking had settled up Normandy but five generations since, yet they had completely forgotten their old Scandinavian tongue, and French was to them the hall mark of civilization and aristocracy. The explanation is perhaps that Teachers should appreciate the great importance of their special field of work, being prompt with their visits and in no way neglecting them. They should aim constantly to live up to the ideals set for them and to do the work in the best possible manner. They should be wise and discreet in their dealings with families and should make it a point to carry hope and good cheer into all the homes which they visit.

The work of the class teachers is, in a sense, specialized work. The woman who accepts the position of class leader should spare no pains to present lessons in an intelligent and edifying manner. This will require a great deal of study and preparation on her part. A class leader who is well prepared and enthusiastic over her work is a real power in the society and a great aid to the officers in maintaining a high grade of interest, and in increasing the attendance at Relief Society meetings. A class leader may judge of the effectiveness of her work by the results she obtains.

Stake and ward presidents should see that their organizations are complete. When vacancies occur they should be filled at once.

Mrs. Lyman read the following extract from a Circular of Instructions on Relief Society work: "A stake president, who is incapacitated for any reason, or who intends leaving her home for any extended period, should consult with the presiding priesthood as to her resignation. It is unwise for any organization to be left without an active head."

Meetings for stake officers should be held at least once a month. A meeting for stake and ward officers should be held at least once a month.

The speaker requested that all circular letters sent out by the General Board be preserved carefully for future reference.

Mrs. Martha A. F. Keeler spoke a few moments on "The Ideal Relief Society," emphasizing the importance of having the meetings conducted with the spirit of prayer, humility and love. The time should be spent with important and eternal things, and all temporary, trivial things should be ignored. Meetings should be opened and closed promptly according to scheduled time and those responsible for the program should see that everything is in readiness so that no time is wasted.

Mrs. Inez Knight Allen spoke briefly of the Hoover Cook Book recently published by the Relief Society women of the Utah stake, stating that those stakes who desire to handle the book in large numbers might have special concessions by applying to the Utah Stake Relief Society.

Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley moved a vote of thanks to the Bailey Floral Company for the handsome easter flowering plant presented to the General Board. The motion was seconded by Mrs. Crismon and carried.

Evening Session.

Dr. Melvin C. Merrill, of the Utah Agricultural College, spoke on "Home Gardening." He emphasized the need of careful planning for the garden, with consideration of the amount of foodstuffs needed by each member of the family. He decried the idea of planting as many seeds as happened to be obtained at a seed store, but declared that every inch of ground should be used to the greatest advantage. Intensive gardening, Dr. Merrill insisted, must be the great slogan of the summer's activity. If there were weeds it was a sure proof that the garden was too large for its crop. The soil should be carefully prepared and fertilized. A great variety of vegetables should be planted and early summer crops should be speedily replaced with those to be harvested in the fall.

Prof. Byron Alder, of the U. A. C., emphasized the need of raising poultry as one of the big foodstuffs of the nation. With the shipping of all possible meats to the war zone, Prof. Alder said the poultry yard must be made to furnish a big part of the nation's protein foods. It takes two years, he asserted, to raise a beef for the market, one year for pork, one year for mutton, but eggs and poultry can be kept almost constantly on the market from the time the hens begin laying. Every family in the country, he urged, should raise enough eggs to last it a year, the spring eggs to be put away in liquid glass for the winter. He told of the care needed by the young chicks in order to insure the greatest possible production of eggs, urging especially plenty of water and sufficient meat, fish and bone scraps. Prof. Alder also urged the raising of a large variety of chickens.

Miss Joan Moen, of the U. A. C., gave a demonstration in the remodeling and renovating of old clothing, emphasizing the possibilities of old silk hosiery, woolen underwear, and other articles usually thrown away.

The morning session of our Relief Society conference in the Assembly Hall found a crowded congregation ready for the excellent program which had been prepared by the Home Science department, under the direction of Mrs. Janette A. Hyde. After the opening exercises, Miss Alice Ravenhill, professor of home economics at the U. A. C., herself one of the best known authors in the United States on Child Welfare, took up this subject and delivered a most excellent address. The facts and truths which she treated are very familiar to the women of the Relief Society,

318                        RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

but a new angle was given through the presentation of modern statistics; and especially attractive was the cultured form and substance of the address. The speaker referred to the decision of the United States to make this coming year a child-welfare period, and manifested the need of more intelligent apprehension concerning the age-old problems of child-protection from diseases and death. Compared ignorance concerning the causes and prevention of infant mortality to a poison in the human system which necessitates an antidote, and recited the startling figures of infant mortality which was like a public poison withering the roots of national life. "Some races have more resistance to certain diseases than others," said the speaker. "The Caucasians are more susceptible to tuberculosis, whooping cough, measles, scarlet fever and other ailments. The yellow race has a peculiar resistance to certain organic diseases which enables it to live under conditions which would be fatal to the white race. Each one of us inherits certain tendencies. It is our duty to find out the direction in which each child is least resistant, to strengthen the weak and consolidate its strong points. Liberty does not carry with it the right to disregard the rights of others. The greater the democracy the stricter the discipline of its members that the rights of others be regarded the more responsible their duty to maintain a high standard of health, strict sanitary conditions, not alone for their own welfare, but that of their neighbors." She stated that 300,000 children died annually in this country before birth and declared that these conditions could be improved by a complete birth registration insuring the lightening of considerable ignorance and the aiding of the poverty stricken. Three thousand more children, she said, died before twelve months of age. The United States spends $350,000,000 on its insane population in one year, despite the two preventable causes of insanity—unfit parentage and the poisoning of the mother's system before the birth of the child. She told of the death rate in the various countries of the world of infants under twelve months old, for every 1,000 of child population, as follows: Belgium, 167; Italy, 153; Germany, before the war, 147; France, 127; England, including the city of London, 90; Russia, 248; Canada, 248; New Zealand, 50; and the United States, based on a very incomplete estimate, 120. Twenty-five per cent of the babies of this nation were found to have died of conditional debility; 9 per cent of bronchitis or pneumonia; one-ninth of digestive disorders; 50,000 annually of tuberculosis; 12 out of every 100 of whooping cough; from 10,000 to 20,000 annually of measles. For every death there was also counted six cases of illness which survived, resulting in blindness, deafness, dullness, delicate lungs, crooked spines, diseased joints, ruined digestions, etc. The speaker urged the mothers to study the conditions which will prevent disease and to enlist themselves in the war against child sacrifice. In closing she added some startling statistics as follows: Some 106,392 men, or 70 per cent of the applicants for the navy, had been found physically unfit; 500,000 of the military enlistments, or one-third, had been found through preventable diseases, unfit for service, all between the ages of 21 and 31. Eight million more men above 31 had been found physically disqualified, meaning that 13,000,000 men who should be in the very prime of life were physically useless to their country in its hour of need. The demonstration in food values and war-time substitutes given by Miss Jean Cox, of the U. A. C., was extremely interesting and attractive. The speaker had upon the stand sample portions of various foods, and thus illustrated all of her valuable and excellent points. She showed the contrasting caloric values and certainly provided many new suggestions for those present to work upon in the present food crisis. Afternoon Session. The conference in the afternoon was addressed by President Emmeline B. Wells, Counselors Clarissa Smith Williams, and Julina L. Smith, and Mrs. Mary Smith Ellsworth, president of the Relief Societies of the Northern States mission. Counselor Williams was the first speaker, and she delivered an earnest exhortation to the sisters, saying, in part: "We conserve in food and we conserve our clothing, and we endeavor to do all those things which are necessary for us to do in order that the great work which is being carried on today may be carried on to a successful finish. I want to say to you, dear mothers, conserve yourselves. If there is any danger today, it will be in the over-anxiety of the mothers and women past middle age who are past the child-bearing age, but who are the mothers of growing children.

If there would be a danger to them, it would be that they should endeavor to overdo the conservation theory. I would feel to impress on you to eat plenty of food, 'plenty of calories,' as Miss Cox said this morning—not overeat, but find, if possible, food that agrees with you, and then 'eat it slowly and chew well.' That is an old saw, but it is verily true. I know by experience that it does not take as much food for the nourishment of an adult person if it is thoroughly masticated. So take time to eat, take time to rest a little, and to reflect; and above all things, take time to pray that you may have the spirit of our heavenly Father and his beloved Son, to uphold you and give you strength to carry the burdens which are yours during these trying times.

"I am of the opinion that the women of the Latter-day Saints, with their usual responsibility in taking up new measures, are doing all in their power to help to carry on this great struggle in which we find ourselves. But sisters, have you ever paused to think that this war will not be won with bullets—it will be by the united effort of the whole people of the world who are working for peace and the right kind of peace, that the people may enjoy all the rights which the Lord designated that they should enjoy here in the world, and that it will take faith and prayer and work more than bullets to win this great struggle.

"I presume that many of you are surprised and delighted with the opinion of many noted men that the love of the Lord and the belief in the divinity of the Lord, and the thought that religion adds to the happiness of the human family is being widely disseminated, not only among men who have been of a non-religious nature, but many young men who thought they had no religion. I do not mean only our own young men, but many of the young men of the world are being led to believe that there is a God, that there is a future life beyond this life, and it is being borne in on them that it is proper that they should live in such a way that they should be ready to enter the presence of the Lord. Some beautiful testimonies come to us from our own young men. You know, you mothers, how our boys are often quite indifferent. They know that they are Latter-day Saints, they have always been Latter-day Saints, they have been taught to do this and that and the other, but they have not taken it very seriously. Many of them now feel that they are on as sacred a mission as they would be had they been set apart to go to preach the gospel; and by their conduct, and their manners and the words quietly spoken, they are able to be true missionaries to those with whom they are associated. I think one of the best things that has come to me has been the testimony of my own young son. He had the measles in the training camp, and during the time that he was in quarantine he had a great deal of time to reflect and read. While he was in a ward, he was yet in a quiet corner, and he wrote to tell me that he had had a beautiful testimony of the gospel. He had always thought the gospel was true, and it meant the most to him of anything, but he had never had a testimony of the gospel until those quiet hours that he spent in reflection and in prayer while he was on his sick-bed. Now that, sisters, means more to me and more to you who have sons who can bear this same testimony, than millions of dollars of riches. The very thought that our children are impressed with the divinity of the gospel, that they have the inspiration to tell them that the gospel is true, that they can say, 'O, I never realized what an uplift prayer could give me until now!' Now, with a firm belief that our heavenly Father will answer their prayers, that he is there, ready, just as their earthly parent would be, with accentuated love for them, oh, what a spirit of blessing it brings!

"I pray, my dear sisters, that we may have the Spirit to uphold us, to give us faith, that we may bless those about us with faith and with love and with courage, that we may be upheld by the knowledge that our Father in heaven is able to assist us, and that at all times we may be found doing his will and keeping his commandments." Counselor Julina L. Smith continued in the same theme, adding her own choice and sound advice as follows: "While Prof. Ravenhill was speaking about the boys and the men in the world, I felt to thank our heavenly Father this morning that our boys, the Latter-day Saints boys that have been called away, have not been found diseased and in a condition that they would have to be sent home because they are not fit for soldiers or for anything else. Once in a while we find a boy or two amongst us who have heart trouble, or some physical disability, but we can cheer up and feel thankful that our boys who have been reared Latter-day Saints are examples to the world; and when we hear of such things as we heard this morning of men in the outside world, we are grateful that our boys are not in that condition. "Now, most of the army boys smoke, and I said to a doctor down in San Diego, 'Why do they smoke?' In reply he stated that the boys had to walk so far every morning and drill so many hours, and that those who smoked and used tobacco could not walk so far as those that did not; and I asked him, 'Why do they allow them to smoke?' He said, 'That is up to them; they are permitted, of course, to use their own judgment in that.' He admitted that those who were perfectly pure and clean and kept the Word of Wisdom, could walk farther and do better than the others. Now, you mothers who have reared your boys to be Latter-day Saints, and have taught them not to use tobacco and liquor, you have some comfort, even if your sons have been called to war. "We have been looking forward to just such times as we have now. You, like myself, knew that when the Lord said that just such things would come as we are having now, that they would come sometime. I did not think it would be in my day. I thought before the end came we would have wars and pestilence and earthquakes and cyclones and all those things which the Lord said would come unless we were faithful and true and repented and lived right and we have not lived right, there are many of our 322 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. own young folks who are being led away and have not been living as well as they used to live; but I think those who have had good teachings will do well. "I have heard of many of our boys who are away, exercising their good influence with other young men, that have not had the same training that the Latter-day Saints have had, and these others are listening to our Latter-day Saints boys and watching and imitating them. "In regard to our saving we can do a great deal of saving in taking care of food. I have seen people who would waste perhaps nearly half that they cooked, put on the table what little they wanted, and scrape the rest out. We can save by cooking only what we need, and if there is a little left over, warm it up and fix it over for another meal. But we do not have to eat food that is not palatable. We can cook it properly and have it palatable and good and have some left, and we can save in that way. "In regard to gardening I have done lots of gardening myself, and since I have been where I am now, without a little garden spot, I have looked out on the lawn many a day and thought if I had a little corner of that lawn where I could plant a little lettuce and a few onions and radishes, and go out and pick them in the morning, like I used to do, how glad I would be. It would not hurt anybody to take care of a little piece of garden like that.

I do not believe in saying to our old ladies and to the sisters who have worked all their lives: 'It is your duty to go out and plow and hoe and water and raise grain and vegetables.' There are many young people who can put in some of their time that way; and it will not hurt them, it will do them good. Just as much good will come to them from raising vegetables as raising flowers. And the older ladies can put in their time sewing and taking care of chickens. Those who were at our meeting last night heard the lecture on raising chickens. I was very much interested in that. An old lady can tend to the chickens and enjoy it, when she could not go out and hoe in the garden. There are things that we can all do that will help, and it is all war work. The old ladies that can sit and knit stockings and scarfs and wash rags and quilt pieces, they are doing their part and helping the soldiers. And I want to tell you that we are on the Lord's side. Our boys are working for the Lord, and we are going to win, for the Lord always wins. We may have a hard struggle, but we are going to win, we know that. As long as we are on the Lord's side we are all right. "Our Relief Society women have always been ready for whatever call the president of the Relief Society makes upon them, no matter what it is for. They respond directly, they are right up GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 323 and in arms. When the President of the Church says we want this, that or the other, they are ready. It is like touching an electric button and turning on the light. It takes only a little while to get out a word to all of our sisters, then they are on hand to do what they are asked to do. It is not because they are afraid and have to take counsel: it is because they are loyal and love to work in unison. When our government calls on us and says we want you to save and take care of the food, we are on hand to do it. When the government says, we want your boys, the best and healthiest that you have, to go to war, to go and help to save their country, that is the biggest and the hardest thing that we could be called upon for; but how do our sisters and our brothers respond? They say, 'Go, my son, you go and do your part. If you lose your life, you will lose it in a good cause, and if your life is spared to you, return home, knowing that you have done your duty, and you will be prepared to go on and help the Lord in his work.' "I pray that the Lord will bless each and every one of us and help us to do his will and help us that we may not forget to pray, to pray for all who have gone to war, that all the honest in heart and all who trust in the Lord may be blessed, which is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen." Mrs. Ellsworth said, in part: "I feel this afternoon as I listened to that beautiful trio, and heard those sisters sing, how blessed are they who trust in the Lord! and I looked over this splendid audience, and those words filled my heart: 'How blessed are they who trust in the Lord!' The Lord has been good to the Latter-day Saints; he has kept his promise to us that to us should be revealed his mind and will, and that we should be magnified in the eyes of the world, and that the eyes and the hearts of the nations of the earth should be turned to Zion. Since the first of last December I have had the privilege of visiting 25 groups of women located throughout the six states of the Northern States mission, and in making my trips to and fro to those 25 groups of women, I have come in contact with many, many people, and have had the privilege given to me to talk to them about the prophecies concerning the war, and I come to tell you that the spirit of unrest, a feeling of fear, is in the hearts of the people of the world. Our missionaries testify that as they go from door to door, tracting, many are glad to listen to their word; they are turning their hearts to the things of the Lord.

"Our missionaries number about 168, yet are a band of children compared to the educated and experienced men and women among whom they labor, but the Lord is good to us our baptisms this year have been greater in number than in any other year of our mission. We baptized in the month of July more than were baptized in the whole of the first year that President Ellsworth presided in the Northern States.

"And I was glad to hear yesterday in our meeting and today the cry from the stand, 'Sisters, conserve your strength.' I think sometimes we get too anxious, too over-zealous, and do more than is required of us, and still I do not want to feel to criticize, but do my utmost in everything that I am called to do.

"Do you not know that we are blessed above all people in all time? To us has been made known the prophecies of the Bible, the prophecies of the Book of Mormon, which bring us to a fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ. We have been told that dire calamities will come: war, earthquake, pestilence, famine—we have been taught it always, not only from the prophets in the Bible and the Book of Mormon, but our Father in heaven has blessed us with our latter-day prophet, to whom he has revealed himself so that the smallest child can understand the things that are to come, the test that is to be made of his children. He has said to us, 'I will have a tried people; you must love me, you must keep my commandments; you must know the gospel and you must know that you know it.' I believe the time is right at our doors when the world is going to be shaken up, when the people everywhere are going to turn to the Lord—for as we go about in our mission, we find hundreds and thousands of beautiful, honest-hearted people. But they have not been given the light that we have received.

"'Blessed are those who trust in the Lord.' While I know some of our boys will have to fall, while I believe sincerely that many of them will give their lives in this great struggle for liberty, I believe firmly that to them on the other side will be given the great privilege of teaching the gospel to the hundreds and thousands who will be slain.

"The day has come when the spirit of Elijah is poured out upon all nations. It is our duty to look after our dead, and if we will, the spirit of the Lord will come to us, peace and comfort shall be given to us, and even though we lose our sons, the sting of death shall be taken away if we keep the commandments that the Lord has given us.

"In our mission, with a little group of less than 400 women, we have sent in to the temple during the last year 3,300 names, and when I tell you that those sisters, many of them, work by the day in stores, in shops, some of them scrubbing, ironing, taking care of the sick, or what they can, to pay for that temple work, you will know that they believe and are fully converted to the principle of salvation for the dead. And so I say the Lord has blessed us as he said. He has kept his promise to us."

GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY.

President Emmeline B. Wells then addressed the meeting: "My beloved brethren and sisters, I am sorry I am hoarse, but feel that I must speak, because I have the same feeling at this conference that I have had previously, that perhaps I might not be spared until another conference, you know, all of you, that I am not young, and probably most of you know that I have been a very long time in the Church—seventy-six years, the first day of March, since I was baptized into the Church—nearly four score years in the Church, and in that long experience I have seen and heard wonderful things. I have never doubted, not once, the truth of the gospel as revealed through the Prophet Joseph.

"We should guard our children and protect them from everything that is wrong; and when they do marry, they should marry in the House of the Lord, the Temples that we have built here wherein ceremonies of this kind should take place; so that their children may be born in the new and everlasting covenant and be entitled to every blessing pertaining to that calling.

"We speak of our young men as our boys.

I remember that in Nauvoo they used to speak about the Nauvoo Legion as the boys of the Nauvoo Legion. A great many of them were boys, and the Prophet Joseph himself was young. When we look back and think of his age, think of what he had passed through, and the terrible persecutions he endured, and then of his terrible death, and his brother Hyrum, and what they suffered, it startles us! However, we believe what the scriptures say, that the blood of the martyrs is the seed of the Church; and since that time, how wonderfully the Church has grown. "I recall the very, very dark hours in Nauvoo, when the Prophet was taken to prison, and how the people mourned, mourned as if he were their very own it is sad even to think of it, the mourning of the people at the time when the Prophet and his brother Hyrum (the father of our present prophet, seer and revelator today) were taken to prison; and how the people turned out in the streets to watch them go! And I recall that President Daniel H. Wells said many times when he spoke of it, that they passed his house, which was just on the outskirts of the city, and that the Prophet stopped and spoke to him and said to him, "Squire Wells, I hope you won't think I am the worst man in the world because I am going to prison." There was a crowd of people all the way they went. I saw them when they went, and the crowd that followed them. But this was really on the outskirts of the city when he spoke to Squire Wells and shook hands with him, I believe if I remember right. Squire Wells had not then become a member of the Church, although I think he was convinced that "Mormonism" was true, and tried to wait for his wife to believe as he did. You know the story, all of you I do not need to repeat that, but I do want to bear my testimony, even if it should be the last that I would have the opportunity to bear to you, of the Prophet Joseph and his wonderful personality. "I think there is no person there could not be any one, so devoid, I think, of the knowledge of people, that could think that there was anything but loyalty and truth and love and mercy in his character. He certainly had a divine appearance. It seems to me that he must have been very much like the Savior himself. When I think of him I can see him just as plain as anything can be in my mind's eye, as if he stood here in the midst of us, speaking to the people as he did on every occasion that I heard him talking to the people. "We have had persecution here, but not to compare with that. We have had the army in Echo canyon, and kept them there for a while, until we could move to Provo and other places in the south. And then we returned in great triumph. I recall the time when Heber C. Kimball came into the house where three of the Wells family were gathered at that time in Provo, and he sat down to talk to us. He saw that we were gloomy especially I was gloomy, because I had seen the time when we were driven from Nauvoo, and when my own mother died from persecution. She was not fifty years old when she died of the hardships. Of course hundreds of others died as well. When we went to Provo it brought it all back again and Heber C. Kimball sat in our house in Provo, before we went into the shanties, and said, "Emmeline, let me tell you that we shall go back to Salt Lake City, and we shall go back in triumph." It was pretty hard to believe, and I do not know that I did exactly believe it, but it came to pass. "The Lord has preserved us in these valleys of the mountains. He has kept us, and we are preserved, and we have grown and we have multiplied, and in nearly all of the nations of the earth and on the islands of the sea we have people faithful and true, just as we try to be who live here under the droppings of the sanctuary, and hear our prophets speak and talk and hear our President. All of us, probably, who are here in this house have heard President Joseph F. Smith speak from the stand in the Tabernacle. Undoubtedly we have, and I hope we shall again during this conference.

And we have this grand Society, this Society of women, that was organized by the Prophet Joseph himself in the City of Nauvoo, in the Masonic Hall. There were then only a few, 18 in number, and three of the brethren of the Priesthood with them. And we have still kept on. Now we have hundreds and thousands in the Relief Society, and I believe we have all been well taught, even those who have been in foreign countries. When I heard Brother Hyrum M. Smith's wife speak as she did at one of our conferences recently, I felt that the Lord had certainly been with her in proclaiming the truth there, almost as much, I may say, as he had with the elders. And our sisters who have traveled and gone in foreign countries with their husbands and some without them, and the missionaries who have been called to stay there, their wives have gone with them; and then the young girls, young women, who have been called into the mission field, they have all done a great work. "I remember, in Nauvoo, when some of the missionaries would be starting away, I thought, 'I only wish I were a boy, and if I could go on a mission, how glad I would be!' And I never expected then that I would see the day when the women would be called to go abroad and teach and preach the gospel. But I am very glad that I have lived to see that day. Soon after going to Nauvoo, having been associated always with the people in Nauvoo, I heard a very great deal about missions and going on missions, and I had the greatest desire in the world even then to go on a mission, though we were sick, and distressed, and poor, and had scarcely enough to eat. But I have never been really sent on a mission. I think I have been eleven times in Washington on special missions, and I have been abroad, and I have talked the gospel to hundreds of people and strangers everywhere I went, if there was any opportunity at all. I have never been called upon a mission; but I was set apart to this mission that I have now in the Relief Society, which is as great a mission as I can possibly have. I love the sisters of the Relief Society as I love myself and my own kindred they are just as near to me as many of my own kindred are that are dear to me; and my kindred are very dear to me. I feel that I made some sacrifice when my mother died a martyr to the faith, but I do not feel that I have made any great sacrifice at all myself, because my ways have been ways of pleasantness, and everything has been pleasing to me. "The Prophet said that the people would come to Zion with their packs on their backs to be fed; and I know a story in connection with this which I could not tell you today. It is a very good one and proof that it was taken to heart by some people. I do not think that they have as yet come in that way, but probably they will, because of the terrible wars that take place in the world today, that are taking place today, and that may yet take place in the future, if the prophecies of the Bible and of the Book of Mormon, and the Prophet Joseph Smith and of President Young are fulfilled, they certainly will; and it looks now as if it was not so very far off when they would come to be fed. "I am very glad that I have had the experiences that I have had; I am very glad that I am able to tell them to the people wherever I go, the wonderful things that we passed through in the early days, the wonderful man President Brigham Young was, as well as the Prophet, for certainly he was one of the greatest minds ever given to man. Except the Prophet, we consider him until now the greatest. Perhaps there have been other great men. At the present time we have the same blood in the man that presides over us today that the Prophet had in his veins.

"I recall with great pleasure the mother of the Prophet, how we used to come and kneel down at her feet and think it was the greatest pleasure possible, that she must be the greatest woman in the world, because she was the mother of the Prophet Joseph Smith, whom we all revered above any man that we have ever seen. And yet we have the same blood today, the blood of the martyrs, presiding over us today! I hope that you, all of you, and all of you who preside and have an opportunity to speak in meetings, will remember the man who stands at the head of the Church today, and who presides over us, that he is the greatest man living on the earth today. No king or potentate, or anything else, no matter what position he may occupy, is so great as the man who presides over the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, of which we are members; and I hope that you will all pray that he and those associated with him may live, that he will have his family and friends, and all the Twelve Apostles, and especially the President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, who is also a great man. Those who hold the Priesthood in places where they have been called to preside should be reverenced and looked up to. And let us have that great love in our hearts always that we felt perhaps when we were first baptized into the Church, the love for each other, in the Relief Society and for all those women who have been called in the Young Ladies' and the Primary Associations. Let us love them, and let us help all men, all brothers and sisters, all good people everywhere, for God is love, and love must be the greatest thing in the world when the Scriptures tell us that God is love. Let us love each other, and be true to each other in our relation to each other in the Relief Society and all the other organizations with which we may be connected or our children or our daughters or our sons. Let us be as strong in the faith as it is possible for us to be, and maintain our purity, maintain our integrity to the gospel and to those with whom we are associated, to our own, and to all others who are good people. "That the Lord may bless the Relief Society in every part and portion thereof, and all other good people in the world, is my prayer. Amen."

Mothers in Israel.

MRS. ANN HYER BUDGE AND FAMILY.

We are happy to present to our readers as the frontispiece of this number the remarkable family of a remarkable mother. We doubt whether there is such a family at present anywhere on the earth, a family of fifteen such healthy, handsome, gifted and thorough Latter-day Saints as is presented in this picture. The mother looks but little older than her children, while the children themselves are noble examples of the value of the applied principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Nor would we forget or minimize the great factor found in the splendid fatherhood of President William Budge, who gave life and being to this choice group of sons and daughters. President Budge is one of the great pioneers of this Church. He was an early settler in Bear Lake valley in Idaho. When that stake was organized in 1877, he was made president, which position he retained until he was called to Logan, on the death of President Mariner W. Merrill, to act as President of the Logan temple, which position he still occupies. Himself a remarkable man, not the least of his executive gifts lies in the strict yet kindly methods which he set in operation for the upbringing of his own numerous and splendid family. The modest yet illuminating sketch received concerning the life and labors of this great mother in Israel follows. We commend the prayerful study thereof to all young mothers in Israel who would prepare themselves to become the righteous mothers of the righteous sons of men:

ANN HYER BUDGE.

Among the large families to be found in the "Mormon" Church is the family of Mrs. Ann Hyer Budge of Logan, Utah, whose parents, Christian and Caroline Hyer came from Norway and were numbered among the first to cross the plains. Mrs. Budge was born in Bountiful, January 25, 1853, and when but seven years of age she moved with her parents to Richmond, Utah. She was early taught to help her mother with the housework, as well as to assist her father in the fields, especially during hay time and harvest. During the grasshopper times, Mrs.

Budge and her sister were assigned the task of driving the hoppers from the grain field by the use of a long rope which they stretched out and dragged over the growing grain. The grasshoppers were thus driven to a pile of straw which was afterwards set on fire and in this way baskets of the destroyers were destroyed. Mrs. Budge had very little opportunity to gain an education, as the pioneer facilities for instructions made advanced schooling almost out of the question. In January, 1868, Ann Hyer met William whom she married the following April 4, and immediately afterwards moved to Providence, Utah, where she did anything and everything she could to assist in the making of a livelihood for her growing family. In the autumn of 1870, President William Budge was called by President Brigham Young to take his families and move to Bear Lake, Idaho, there to assume charge of the Church affairs in that section. Mrs. Budge brought fifteen children into the world—eight boys and seven girls—and has been blessed in that she was successful in rearing all of them. At the time this photograph was taken, the boys averaged a weight of 201 pounds, and the girls averaged 162 pounds, making an actual weight of 2,742 pounds of her offspring. Besides caring for all of these children Mrs. Budge has devoted more or less of her time to Relief Society work, as an active teacher; and she is always willing to assist in any material way required. Today she is counted as one of the strongest and healthiest women in the country. It might well be argued from this sterling example that rearing children promotes vitality and youth in the mother, while not impairing health or happiness in the children as some people are wont to assert. We are exceedingly proud of this exhibit and present the same to our readers and to the world as a family in Israel.

SKETCH OF DAVID P. KIMBALL.

Elder Solomon F. Kimball has put time and much loving endeavor into an interesting sketch of his able and forceful brother David. The pages glow with pioneer items and word pictures. Not the least interesting portions of the book are those intimate, thrilling chapters which reveal some vital experiences of the quaint and remarkable author himself. We cordially recommend it to our friends and readers.

Experience. By Lucy May Green.

The knitting needles clicked merrily in the hands of the dozen or more women gathered in the comfortable sitting room of Sister Burton of Alvon ward. The occasion was a special meeting of the Relief Society Red Cross workers and the tongues wagged briskly as the busy fingers plied their needles. In one corner of the room a bright, veracious woman was relating some funny experience and the work was interrupted by peals of merry laughter. Another group were discussing recent events in their neighborhood, and I'm sorry to relate, were criticizing some of their ward officers. "This will never do," thought President Hunter, "in a moment or two we shall be gossiping." "Sisters," she called aloud, "let us have a song. We will sing, 'Count Your Blessings.'" A hush fell over the gathering, then a chord was sounded, and the voices mingled in the familiar hymn of gratitude. "We have many blessings," began the president as the song concluded, "so many that we cannot count them all, some we seldom think of, others we do not use at all. Take for instance, the use of consecrated oil in the home. Many of our people do not even keep a bottle of oil on hand, and if illness comes, and the Priesthood is called to administer the healing ordinance, it has to be done with borrowed oil, or delayed until some can be purchased and consecrated. A bottle of oil occupies first place in my medicine cabinet," she continued, "I could not keep house without it." "That is true," answered Sister Larsen, "we do not half appreciate its value. The last time I visited my 'block' I called at the home of one of our good sisters, and found it all confusion. A two-year-old youngster was screaming lustily in the arms of his mother who was walking the floor in a vain attempt to comfort him. 'Whatever's wrong?' I enquired. 'Why,' she returned, 'my boy is ruptured, and the friction caused by his truss has chafed him badly, and I have no salve or ointment left,' she concluded lamely. " 'Have you any consecrated oil?' said I. " 'Yes, but I would not dare use it myself; that is only for the Priesthood to use,' said she.

"'What an idea!' I replied; 'isn't it to be used in the household of faith? Do you think I'd let my child suffer when a few applications of healing oil would soothe and relieve? And if you would use enough faith, without doubt, it would effect a cure.' But she would not be convinced, and as I left she was planning to send to the drug store for vaseline."

"Sisters," said President Hunter, "this is an interesting topic for discussion. Let us have your experiences."

"When I came over from England," spoke up Sister Rose, "I brought along a bottle of consecrated oil in my dressing case, and when on board ship, the company of Elders and Saints began to get seasick. My oil was kept in constant use for the healing ordinance; in fact, it was the only bottle of oil on board. One faithful old sister became very ill, and was administered to frequently. She died on the overland journey, but I often think of her faith, and the comfort brought about through the administrations of the Priesthood, and my bottle of oil."

"My sister Lou," began Sister Bruer, "always takes some consecrated oil when we go on our canyon trips. I used to laugh at her, but on one occasion, when we all got poisoned through eating some bottled beans, we found it very useful. That was a dreadful experience," and she shuddered as if to shut out the recollection.

"Some have faith to heal, others have faith to be healed. The latter has been my especial gift," began Sister Stevens. "From my childhood up I have always desired to be administered to whenever I was sick. If no Elders were available, I used the holy oil myself. I have great faith in the blessings pronounced on it when it is consecrated by the Priesthood. I have used it for neuralgia, for earache, headache and for burns."

"That reminds me," observed Sister Mayne. "Just recently I received a distinct impression to get a new bottle, as mine was almost gone. I did so, and a few days later I was washing and the boiler bubbled over, severely scalding my feet. My folks wanted me to send for the doctor, but I used plenty of gauze soaked in consecrated oil, was also administered to, and in less than two weeks my burns were completely healed, and scarcely any scar remains. It was an additional testimony of the blessings of the gospel," she concluded.

"Five o'clock, and time to dismiss," called President Hunter. "We have heard some wonderful experiences; let us profit by them and in counting our many blessings let us return our thanks to our Father in heaven, that he has restored the Priesthood to earth, and the gifts of the gospel, among which is the healing ordinance and the use of the holy consecrated oil."

Unusual Mothers.

M. MELISSA SUMMERHAYS.

MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN.

M. Melissa Summerhays, daughter of Joshua Parker and Drucilla Hartley, was born at Kanesville, Pottawattamie County, Iowa, May 21, 1852. That same year her parents crossed the plains. They settled in the Sixteenth ward, in which ward Melissa was reared. At the time of the "Move," being then five years of age, she went South with her parents and remained there until Johnston's Army passed through Salt Lake City en route to Camp Floyd, when they came back to their home in the Sixteenth ward. On June 27, 1870, she was married in the Endowment House to Joseph William Summerhays, and is the mother of sixteen children—nine girls and seven boys. Her sons have performed seven missions as follows: To England, to the Southern States, Samoa, Switzerland, Germany and France, and she now has one son who is serving his country with the United States Expeditionary forces in France. In 1892 she removed to the Forest Dale ward of the Granite stake in which ward she now resides. She was a member of the Relief Society in the 16th ward and has been a member of and a teacher in the Relief Society in the Forest Dale ward ever since it was organized. Her special mission in the ward in which she now lives is to visit the sick and to administer to the sisters who expect to become mothers. In talking with her about her life's labors, her desires and aspirations, she stated that above all other things she was thankful for, was the gospel, and for the comfort and consolation that is brought to her. She said that she knew that the gospel was true and that in her weak way she had been trying to keep the commandments of God, in doing which she found unspeakable consolation.

Notwithstanding Melissa is now 66 years of age, and has had sixteen children, she is a well preserved woman and her dark hair shows very few gray hairs. EVANGELINE DUNN HUNSAKER. MOTHER OF SEVENTEEN CHILDREN. Evangeline Dunn Hunsaker is the mother of seventeen children. Great has been her mission here on earth and well and faithfully has she performed the same. She was born September 12, 1853, in Brigham City, Utah. Her father, Simeon A. Dunn, was one of the first settlers of Brigham City, and lived in the old fort, together with President Lorenzo Snow and others. Her mother's name was Harriet Attwood Silver, who joined the Church in Lowell, Massachusetts; and leaving all her family and friends for the gospel's sake she went to Winter Quarters, where she met and married Simeon A. Dunn. They emigrated to Utah in 1848. Seven children were born to them three sons and four daughters, as follows: Sarah S., Simeon A., Emaline and Evaline (twins), Charles O., Harriet and Henry (twins). Harriet Attwood Silver Dunn died January 1, 1858, leaving her seven children without a mother's care. Evangeline was only four years old at the time of her mother's death. She with the other children were left to the care of their father and an older sister (Susannah Dunn), whose mother was also dead, and who was only fourteen years old when these little brothers and sisters were left to her care. In the midst of poverty, the hard times and privations incident to the early pioneer life in Utah, the children all young, were subjected to a life of hardship that may be imagined only by persons acquainted with such scenes. October 5, 1868, in the Endowment House, Salt Lake City, Evangeline was united for time and for eternity to Allen Collins Hunsaker. Soon after her marriage she moved with her husband to Honeyville, where they lived for about eleven years, when they settled in Elwood, Utah, being among the first settlers, again pioneering a new country. Her husband was a farmer and sheep man. He was Presiding Elder of the branch for over ten years and always received encouragement and help from his wife. Seventeen children were born to them, namely: Simeon A., Lewis, Eva L., Lily M., Emaline M., Harriet V., Ethel, Adeline (died in infancy), Latitia, Margaret, Susie, Aleen, Nephi (died at two years of age), Oscar (died at three weeks), Lorenzo S., Amy, and Harold (died in infancy). Thirteen of the seventeen children are now grown to maturity, and all except one (Lorenzo S.) are married and all had that ordinance performed in the Temple. Surely the teachings, the example and the loving counsel of this parent have not been in vain! If the children of this loving mother do anything wrong, or if they do not keep the commandments given to them as members of this Church, it will not be because the mother and father failed to teach them by example and precept every principle of the gospel. Sister Hunsaker is a faithful member of the Church, being a worker in the ward Relief Society and helping in every way she can. She is the grandmother of 74 children and has four great-grandchildren whose father (Simeon A.) died in 1902 and their mother in 1904. She has taken these children (the oldest being seven years old when their mother died), and cared for them, and they are now grown men and women. The eldest (Simeon V. Hunsaker) has enlisted in the Navy. Two of Sister Hunsaker's sons Simeon A. and Lewis have filled honorable missions; the first to Germany and the latter to England. For almost forty-nine years she has been a constant companion, a true and devoted wife and a loving mother. Long may she yet remain to be a source of inspiration to her posterity. FOR RELIEF SOCIETY SINGERS. A new and tuneful duet for soprano and alto, entitled, "Prince Charming," by our popular and veteran composer, John Chamberlain, is now on sale at the Chamberlain Music Company, 44 South Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah; price 50c per copy. Home Entertainments. By Morag. Much of the joy we receive through life comes from association with one another in the family circle, in the hospitable homes of our friends and in our various Church and school gatherings. Many of our homes are now feeling the loneliness of separation from loved ones enlisted in their country's service, and the uncertain waiting that only such a war as this can bring. We know it is our patriotic duty to be wise and economical of our resources, as well as of our time and money.

It is equally as much our patriotic duty to bring as much joy and sunshine into the world as we possibly can. Uncle Sam is doing everything possible to provide recreations for his soldiers in every branch of the service; they have unlimited chances to play, sing and smile. Fortunately happiness making need not be costly either in expenditure of materials, time or labor; only a little, sometimes, in the amount of thought, love and personal sacrifice involved. We need home fun, and parties to keep up the normal balance of our lives. The month of June brings many social occasions, wedding parties and receptions, class parties, exercises for flag day. Let these be as simple and inexpensive as possible; avoid ostentation; let the costumes of our brides conform to the Church standard; use simple, home cooked meals, instead of those furnished by a costly caterer, and for decorations the fragrant flowers from the home garden. Whatever refreshments are served at your parties let them conform strictly to the "Hoover" standard and be made to take the place of one of the regular meals whenever practicable. Every bit of the happiness we can create in our homes and hearts over here will find its way across the water to those so bravely going "over the top" for us that we may live.

FLAG DAY. June 14, the anniversary of the adoption of the flag, is celebrated throughout the land. The age of the American flag surprises many, for it was adopted by the Continental congress on June 14, 1777. It is, therefore, eight years older than the flag of Spain, seventeen years older than the tricolor of France, twenty-three years older than the British ensign, and preceded the flags of Italy (1848), Japan (1859), and Germany (1871). On Flag Day hold patriotic exercises in the home, school and Church. Renew your pledge of allegiance, and celebrate the day with patriotic song, sentiment, and story. Decorate your homes with flags and bunting. Good floral combinations are red and white carnations and blue cornflowers, or crimson roses with blue and white larkspur.

The Flag in Song. "Flag of the Free." "We'll Never Let the Old Flag "Star Spangled Banner." Fall." "There are Many Flags in "Old Glory." Many Lands." "Flag Without a Stain." "The Emblem of Freedom." "My Own America." "How Betsy Made the Flag." "The Red, White and Blue."

The following sentiment written on flag decorated cards would make appropriate souvenirs or place cards: "Listen, son! The band is playing 'The Star Spangled Banner.' They have let loose 'Old Glory' yonder. Stand up, bare your head, lift your eyes and thank God that you live under the flag."

Refreshments for Flag Day party. Star-shaped sandwiches, tomato jelly salad garnished with white potato stars, lemon ice cream with raspberry syrup and a tiny flag in each dish, and graham or oatmeal cookies.

HOME EVENING. June 1 and June 27 are dates that should be remembered in every Latter-day Saint home. The former is the birthday of that great pioneer and leader, the Moses of modern Israel, Brigham Young; while the latter date is the anniversary of the martyrdom of the Prophet and Patriarch of the last dispensation, Joseph and Hyrum Smith.

SOME "CONSERVATION" REFRESHMENTS. Honey Nut Sandwiches. To half a cup of honey add all the finely chopped nuts it will hold. Spread between thin slices of brown bread lightly spread with peanut butter.

Peanut Dainties. Spread small wafers or graham crackers with peanut butter. Put a fresh marshmallow in center of each. Heat in a moderate oven until marshmallows turn a light brown. Serve with barley coffee or grape juice.

Popcorn Macaroons. Mix one cupful of finely ground popcorn with one tablespoon of softened butter. Add this to the white of one egg beaten to a stiff froth with one fourth cup of sugar. Flavor with vanilla and add a little salt. Drop mixture in little molds on baking sheet. Bake in slow oven till light brown.

Fruit Rice Pudding. Half fill small ramekins with cold rice pudding. Make a cavity in center of each; fill with a tablespoon of raspberry or currant jam; smooth over more rice to conceal filling; dredge with pulverized sugar and bake five minutes in hot oven. No sauce is needed. Serve hot or cold.

Flag Day Nectar. Dissolve two cupfuls of sugar in same amount of cold water; add grated rind of one orange (only the yellow part to be used). Bring this to a boil. Strain this syrup; add juice of two lemons and two oranges, two quarts of raspberry or strawberry juice and one quart of cold water. Serve ice cold.

Fruit Ice.

Crush three ripe bananas to a pulp; add juice of two lemons and four oranges. Boil three cups of water with two of sugar and the grated rind of one lemon and one orange for a few minutes. When cold combine with fruit mixture. Turn into freezer and freeze. BUTTERMILK. Sour milk may easily be beaten into buttermilk with an eggbeater. People who live in the city and find it difficult to get honest buttermilk will find this method an excellent one. STUDENTS, ATTENTION. The many calls by our Society members for the book by Lew Wallace entitled The Fair God have exhausted the $0.65 supply in the city book stores. There are still a few of the $1.50 edition. But Prescott's Conquest of Peru and Mexico gives more information, and it is not cast in the form of fiction, but is true, pure and simple. These books were suggested as supplementary to the study of the Book of Mormon. Our New Board Member. MRS. DONNETTE SMITH KESLER. The new member of our Board is the daughter of President Joseph F. Smith and his wife Julina L. Smith, First Counselor of this Board. Her noble parentage did not altogether qualify her for this responsible position, but rather the intelligent use she has made of all her gifts and inheritances. She is a college graduate, a long-time teacher, a loyal daughter, a fond wife, and a devoted and wise mother. She will occupy a most useful yet modest and unassuming place in our active Board membership. She was born in 1872, in Salt Lake City. A thorough student, she graduated from the L. D. S. U. in 1892, and for two years thereafter acted as lady superintendent of that institution. In 1896 she went to the Pratt Institute of Brooklyn, New York, taking up kindergarten work, graduating from that institution with high honors in 1898. She taught kindergarten work in the University of Utah from 1898 to 1900 as one of their first specialists. She was married to Alonzo Kesler, December 26, 1900, who had just returned from the presidency of the Eastern States mission. They were a handsome and striking couple and Sister Kesler was well qualified to assume life's marital responsibilities. She still continued in her kindergarten teaching, until 1905, giving special summer courses, not only in Salt Lake City, but in Logan, Ogden and Manti. These courses were the outgrowth of the excellent plans prepared by Sister Kesler for the General Board of the Sunday School Union, and constituted model Sunday School training courses. She therefore laid the foundation for the subsequent kindergarten Sunday School work of the Church. She was one of the first workers in the Salt Lake Temple, was president of the Y. L. M. I. A. in the Sixteenth ward for six years, and was on the Salt Lake Stake M. I. A. Board under Sister Nellie C. Taylor, until the death of Mrs. Taylor. In later years, Mrs. Kesler has devoted her whole attention to the rearing of her family. She is the mother of six children—three sons and three daughters—the oldest a daughter now 16, the youngest a boy of 6. Two years ago she entered the Forest Dale ward Relief Society, after which she was called to act as superintendent of the genealogical work; and this temple and genealogical labor has engaged all of her spare time in public service since that time. She has worked with her mother in the Temple Clothes Committee work since it was begun, and has been a member of the Surname Book Committee of the General Board, as well as class teacher of the Genealogical Class, held under the charge of the chairman of the committee during the past season in the genealogical class room of the new Church office building. On the 4th of February last, Alonzo P. Kesler died suddenly, leaving his grief-stricken but brave wife to finish her life-work alone. Elder Kesler was at one time president of the Eastern States mission and was always interested in public policies and in the building up of waste places. His death will be keenly felt by his bereaved family. Yet, like a saint, his wife has gathered up her burden cheerfully, not abating one iota of her public or private labors, but meeting all with the serene courage, born of faith and pure integrity. She is a noble representative of her noble and exalted line. From this brief record it will be seen that there is a wide field of labor for Mrs. Kesler on our Board, and she is amply qualified to fill every requirement.

She is a fine speaker and natural logician, gifted with patience and tact, a wise counselor, and is a conservative, loyal Latter-day Saint, through and through. We welcome her upon the Board.

INSECTS OF THE HOME GARDEN.  
By Professor W.W. Henderson, Utah Agricultural College.

There are so many injurious insects which ravage garden crops that it is impossible, and perhaps undesirable in a short article to consider any but those from which we are most likely to suffer injury in our State. We will, therefore, mention only a few of the most flagrant. Many insects feed at night and hide during the day in the recesses of various plants or elsewhere. They are usually protectively colored also, and are not readily seen even when they are doing damage, until they become very numerous. The gardener should therefore keep a watchful eye for the insect intruder. The plants usually show the presence of the enemies by presenting a dwarfed, ragged or discolored appearance. When this occurs, it is high time to look for the offenders.

The following insecticides, used in control, can be made up by anyone without previous experience if judgment and care are used in the process:

Arsenate of Lead. Mix 3 tablespoonfuls (not heaping) of powdered arsenate of lead into a small quantity of water, making it into a thin paste. Add this to one gallon of water. Keep it stirred when spraying.

Poison Bran Mash. Mix 1 ounce of powdered arsenate of lead with 1 pound of bran, juice from half a lemon, a small quantity of syrup or molasses to sweeten, and water enough to dampen.

Powdered Lead Arsenate. Mix 1 part of dry arsenate of lead with 3 parts of flour. Use cheese cloth bag or fine spice shaker for dusting the plants.

Soap Solution. Dissolve 4 pound of laundry soap in 1 gallon of water.

Tobacco Solution. Mix 1 teaspoonful of nicotine sulphate in 3 gallons of water in which has been dissolved 2 ounces of laundry soap.

Great caution is urged in making up and using insecticides. Lead arsenate and nicotine sulphate as well as the insecticides made from them are very poisonous and extreme care must be taken to keep them out of reach of small children and away from poultry or other domestic animals.

Current Topics.  
By James H. Anderson.

The Mormon Church, at its April Conference, voted another $250,000 to the Government Liberty Bond subscriptions.

The Temple built by the Latter-day Saints in the Hawaiian Islands has been completed.

The Draft Age has been changed by Congress to include all young men reaching the age of twenty-one years in June, 1918.

Kerosene oil and Coal are likely to be two items added to the "scarcity" list in the United States by the close of 1918.

An earthquake in Southern California on April 21 destroyed two small towns and did a considerable amount of property damage in others.

The new submarine chasers now being made in the United States can travel forty-five miles per hour on the surface of the water. That surely is a great achievement.

The German high seas fleet is being counted on as reaching the Pacific Ocean when the ice in the north is melted sufficiently by the approach of summer.

Twenty-six women conductors in London streetcars were poisoned, none fatally, in one week in April, by strangers treating them to chocolate candy.

In Mexico, food is so scarce that hundreds, especially among the poorer classes, die each successive month of starvation.

Col. Richard W. Young, of Utah, grandson of President Brigham Young, has been promoted to the position of brigadier-general, a promotion earned by merit.

In Palestine, in April, the Turks and Germans attacked the British at a point a few miles southwest of Nazareth, but were driven back.

Turkey and Bulgaria will soon separate from Germany, is President Wilson's expressed view. Only forcible separation will be effective.

Mexicans to the number of several hundred have been brought to labor in the Utah and Idaho beet-fields. They are mostly of pure Indian blood.

Child welfare is a lovely and timely topic for real and would-be mothers; but many won't-bes seem to be pushing to the front in talking in the present national movement.

The United States began rushing troops to France in the latter part of March, so that by this time hundreds of thousands of American soldiers are facing the German invaders there.

American aeroplanes to the number of tens of thousands are now in actual service in training camps, and soon will make their force felt in the European theatre of war.

In Russia, the women have been granted the privilege of voting on questions affecting parish affairs in the Russian church, and even to hold the office of elder and act as psalm-reader. An aeroplane having crossed the Atlantic, was the announcement from Great Britain in April. Official denial was made that it came from the United States, but the latter has aeroplanes that can make the trip. Wool is to be taken by the Government at the price prevailing on July 30, 1917. Thus all the great commodities except those raised in the South have had a maximum price put upon them by the Government. Congress has been criticizing sharply the incompetency of high officials in various national administration departments, with the result that much improvement has been made and more is in prospect. The American Publishers' Association, at its convention in New York in April, condemned the Government censorship at Washington as deceptive and as suppressing news readily obtainable in other countries. Zeebrugge, a German U-base in Belgium, was the object of a desperate and highly courageous attack by the English on April 22. Much damage was inflicted and concrete ships were sunk in the hope of closing that port to the U-boats. Bertrand Russell, editor of the London (Eng.) Tribunal, and Miss Joan Beauchamp, owner, have been sentenced on conviction of "abusing" (maligning) American troops, Russell to six months imprisonment and Miss Beauchamp to pay a fine of $300. Easter Sunday, 1918, in commemoration of the resurrection of Jesus of Nazareth, was celebrated peacefully and earnestly at a meeting of about four thousand Christians of various denominations assembled upon the Mount of Olives, Palestine the first occasion of the kind in history. Holland is in an awkward predicament as to its neutrality. Germany insists on pushing war materials through that country to the fighting front, while America will not supply the Netherlands food if such aid to Germany continues. It seems to be either fight or starve. Three long-range cannon, made by Germans, surprised the military and mechanical world in April, by being used to bombard Paris from St. Gobain wood, a distance of seventy-five miles. The highest point reached in the flight of the missile thrown is estimated at twenty miles above the earth. Russia has lost one-third of its population and scores of square miles of territory by annexations to Germany in the peace treaty arranged with the Bolsheviki. This accounts for many Russian army units being reofficered by Germans and incorporated into the kaiser's armies. Germany's great drive began March 25, and forced the allies in France backward about forty miles at one point. At the end of April the battle still was on, with the defection of Russia from the allied cause, Germany has about two men to one against the allies in France. Certain labor unions in the West called a strike for May 1, as a protest against T. J. Mooney, convicted of murder during the preparedness parade in San Francisco, being executed. If Mooney is guilty of the crime charged, his sympathizers by strikes cannot lay claim to loyalty to the United States in the present crisis. Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams, Red Cross. The development and expansion of the American Red Cross has been one of the most remarkable achievements of the war. Spurred on by orders from General Necessity the Red Cross workers of the Mountain division, comprising Utah, New Mexico, Wyoming, and Colorado, continued their record-breaking activities during March. Figures compiled at division headquarters in Denver show that the valiant troops of various chapters, branches and auxiliaries are maintaining a "barrage" of war necessities that will be of great assistance in keeping old General Von Suffering from advancing his forces into allied territory. During the month, 992,169 articles, including knitted goods, hospital garments and supplies, surgical dressing and refugee garments, were received at the division warehouse. The February receipts were 888,834 articles, and the January receipts 567,684 articles. Thus, it will be seen, the division production has practically doubled since the first of the year. Plenty of Yarn Now Available. The Mountain Division Supply Department advises that it now has an abundant supply of yarn. It can supply all chapters. The present price, as established by Washington headquarters, is $2.30 a pound. Director Standart, of the Bureau of Supplies, wishes to impress upon chapters the necessity of following a uniform practice in ordering supplies. Be sure to specify what yarn is for, also color desired. He urges the use of Form 250. Do not put anything on this but the order. If it is desired to ask any questions, write on a separate sheet. The matter then will be referred to the proper department, and more prompt attention is assured. Food Production.

Preachers Asked to Help in Food-Production Campaign. Ministers of All Religions Requested to Tell their People How America Needs Food. Washington, D. C. Every minister, priest and rabbi in the United States is to be asked to join in the campaign that aims to insure this year record-breaking crops of every farm product. PATRIOTIC DEPARTMENT. 347 We learn from a New York paper that on one day in one street alone, 200 pounds of half-loaves and pieces of bread were found in the garbage pails of that city. This street was but one of 300 squares in that great center. The same article states that there are 216,000,000 pounds of flour wasted in that city annually. Surely the food conservation movement will do something for these many wasteful people. The article states that while many fashionable women are out doing war work, their maid-servants waste more than these women could possibly earn. Child Welfare Work. The government is emphasizing the needs of little children who are deprived of milk. Of 756 Baltimore children between 2 and 7 years of age, only 29 per cent are now having fresh milk to drink as against 60 per cent a year ago. And only 20, or less than 3 per cent of the children studied are having as much as three cups a day. With the babies under 2 the Children's Bureau says the situation is a little less serious. Apparently their needs are more generally understood than the needs of the child over 2. Most serious, according to the Children's Bureau, is the general substitution in the child's diet of tea and coffee for drinking milk. Of the 575 children who are not drinking milk, 64 per cent have definitely substituted tea and coffee, and 24 per cent are "sharing the family diet," which may or may not include milk in other foods. The Children's Bureau states: "Taking a pint and a half of fresh milk as the desirable daily allowance for the average child, these 756 children were having last year on an average only 40 per cent of what they should have had; this year their daily allowance has dwindled to 14.4 per cent of this allowance. "The work of Children's Year should emphasize in every community the importance of fresh milk in the diet of young children. Without proper nourishment, children can not keep well and free from physical defects, and a campaign of education on the feeding of children is an essential part of the saving of 100,000 children during the second year of the war." When children cannot or will not use raw milk it should be made into gravies, soups and custards. "Mothers are just beginning to realize that the better care which babies must have if 100,000 of them are to be saved during Children's Year, should commence before the baby is born. Every year three times that number of children under five die and are lost to the country before they have lived much beyond infancy. A large part of this vast multitude of young Americans 348 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. perished needlessly, because many of the deaths could have been prevented by proper and sufficient care. At what age do most of these preventable deaths occur? What are the proven methods by which babies' lives may be saved? From the answers to these questions mothers will appreciate the special work for children which they can do during Children's Year. The first and largest number of deaths among little babies is due to what are called the prenatal causes. The essential features of good care for expectant mothers are proper and sufficient food, rest, freedom from overtaxing forms of work and from worry, and prompt attention to small ailments as they arise. A prospective mother needs a light, nutritious diet of digestible foods, such as she likes and her appetite demands. Fried and greasy foods, heavy puddings, and all heavy or rich pastries, or an excess of any one article, should be eliminated from her diet, as well as anything which she does not readily digest. It is also important that the expectant mother should drink a sufficient quantity of water each day. During the last eight weeks before the baby comes the mother should, as far as possible, be spared all forms of heavy and taxing labor, in order that her strength may be built up in anticipation of the coming demand upon it. The baby's proper development also depends largely upon the mother's condition at this time, since the baby gains half his weight in the last eight weeks of pregnancy. The mother's ability to nurse her baby and depends largely upon the care she has during these last weeks immediately after confinement. The Children's Bureau, Washington, D. C.

Co., will send to anyone asking for it a pamphlet giving simple directions to mothers-to-be. It is a comforting reflection to the Relief Society to know, as always, that we are a few steps in advance of the world in good words and good works. This Society, through the Home Economics department, began the study of child problems more than a year ago, and this year's lessons have dealt very liberally with questions pertaining to the care and feeding of children; so that we are, as usual, quite ready now to take up those detailed studies in child-welfare work prescribed by the government. Weigh Your Child for the Government. The instructions for carrying out the weighing and measuring test of American children under 5 years of age were sent to the Child Welfare Department of the Woman's Committee of the Council of National Defense to its state and local child-welfare chairman, who will be responsible for the test in each PATRIOTIC DEPARTMENT. 349 community. The record cards will follow after word is received of the exact number required by each committee. Parents who wish to enter their children in the national test should communicate with the local chairman of the child-welfare committee of their State Council of National Defense, or if no such chairman has yet been appointed, with the county or state child-welfare chairman of the council. Local chairmen who have not received instructions about the test or the detailed program of which the test is the first feature should communicate at once with the child-welfare chairman of their State Council of Defense. Utah Woman's Council Activities. In the State of Utah, the Defense Council organization is exceptionally complete. In every town and village women's societies, especially the Relief Societies of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, have existed for many years, and these societies not only formed a working basis for our war efforts, but were very helpful to the general committee in organization work. There is now a branch Council in every county, which assists in any branch of the work which has so far been accomplished. The Woman's Liberty Loan Committee was very active in the second and third Liberty Loan drives, and the success of these drives was, in a large measure, due to the indefatigable efforts of this committee. The Woman's Committee has held its semi-monthly meetings and aimed to proceed along lines which would be conducive to united effort among the women of the state. The program for the coming year is far broader than before, and the plans indicate that much will be accomplished. The conservation committee has outlined a plan of work which will go far toward increasing the supply of food production in this state. The Committee on Education is taking steps toward the Americanization of aliens—the women as well as the men. The Government has requested that every effort be made for the saving of one hundred thousand children during the year beginning April 6, 1918, and ending April 6, 1919. The number allotted to Utah to save is 496 children. Physicians, nurses and each organization interested in child-welfare are asked to unite in an earnest endeavor to further this important movement. While this terrible conflict is depopulating the world, every patriotic citizen—man or woman—will consider it a duty to lend every effort toward prolonging the life, and promoting the health and happiness of the rising generation. 350 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Americanization in Utah. The Committee on Education of the Woman's Council of Defense for Utah has been organized about three months. Instructions have been received from the National Committee on Education that the special work to be undertaken throughout the Nation is the conversion to American ideals of the foreign-born population, and the rousing to patriotism of those who may be lukewarm among the native population. Since Utah has a foreign population of about 65,000 out of less than 400,000 inhabitants, mostly in the mining camps, however, it is quite apparent that there is need for active patriotic work. The State committee has undertaken to have a chairman of Education appointed in each county of the state; and to date more than half of the counties are fully organized and ready for work. A letter has been sent to each county chairman of the Defense Council urging her to appoint someone to take charge of this work, and to further its interests. A letter has also been sent to the school superintendent of every county asking his support and to all of the high schools and colleges. All of the foreign newspapers have been visited—including the German, Scandinavian, Greek and Japanese—and have given permission to use their columns for any patriotic purpose.

It is the aim of the committee by means of the printed page and the co-operation of the school child to scatter to the individual home much useful information. Also by means of sectional meetings and personal contact to meet many of those who for one cause or another are "disgruntled." This committee is in correspondence with the great New York banker, Mr. Otto H. Kahn, a loyal American of German birth, who is not only a liberal patron of arts and letters, but is moreover a loyal, consistent supporter of the U. S. Government, and is in constant council with Government officials, lecturing to German-Americans everywhere, and writing the clearest and most formidable of pamphlets in support of the Allies' movement. His article on "Poisoned Prussianism" will soon appear in our Utah paper, the Beobachter. We are in the war to win and we need the help of every citizen of Utah, and all who are not citizens must be for us else they are against us!

Conservation Pointers. The United States Department of Agriculture, endorsed by the Food Administrator, has just launched a new Food Conservation campaign. The object of this campaign is to stimulate the use of a valuable food made from a by-product of the butter industry. Over forty per cent of our entire milk production is made into butter. When we take 100 pounds of milk for butter, we get 4 pounds of butter, 12 pounds of buttermilk, and 84 pounds of skim milk. This skim milk is now largely fed to farm animals or wasted. The department has found cases where millions of pounds of skim milk was run into sewers from creameries. This skim milk is too valuable a food to be either fed entirely to farm animals, or wasted. If we feed 100 pounds of skim milk to a hog we get in return about 7 pounds of pork. If we make 100 pounds of skim milk into cottage cheese, we get 15 pounds of cottage cheese, which cheese, pound per pound, is the equivalent of lean meat in food value. It contains 25 times more lime than meat, a most valuable bone building material absolutely necessary for young children. It contains nine times more lime than a dozen eggs. It is as efficient a muscle builder as meat or eggs, and a more efficient muscle builder than beans or cereals. We have asked our farmers to produce more food of every kind. Here is a food that we have already produced. To have it, we do not need to plow another acre of ground, or plant another seed, or invest another dollar—it's here—it costs half as much as meat, and may often replace meat in the diet very advantageously, provided the system can easily digest milk and its by-products. Shall we use it?

BAKED BREAD AND CHEESE.  
4 medium slices of bread.  
1 cup of cottage cheese.  
1 whole egg.  
1/2 teaspoon soda.  
1 egg yolk or an egg white.  
Onion juice.  
2 cups of milk.  
Parsley and pimento, or spicy  
1/2 teaspoon salt.  
chili or chili sauce, nuts if de-  
Cayenne pepper.  
sired.

Butter the bread and cut the slices in squares or diamonds. Place a layer, buttered side down, on the bottom of a large shallow buttered baking dish. Dissolve the soda in a little of the milk and with it mix the cheese to a soft cream. Add parsley and pimento or sauce if desired. Spread a thick layer of the cheese lightly over the bread, and cover with the rest of the bread, buttered side up. Beat the eggs well, mix them with the milk and seasonings, and pour them over the bread. Bake in a slow oven till a knife thrust in to the custard comes out clean. If the milk is warmed and added gradually to the beaten egg, and the baking dish is set in a pan of hot water, the custard cooks more quickly and is less likely to curdle through becoming overheated.

Variations. Corn muffins, barley or oatmeal bread may be used instead of white bread. This dish may be made into a hearty sweet pudding by omitting the onion juice and other seasonings and substituting two to three tablespoons of sugar or an equivalent sugar substitute, and raisins or dates, nutmeg or cinnamon, with other spices if desired.

Suggested supper or luncheon menu. Baked bread and cheese, green salad or crisp fresh vegetable, toasted corn muffins, fresh or canned fruit. For a heartier meal, add baked or hashed brown potatoes.

COTTAGE CHEESE LOAF (ONE).  
1 cup cooked rice (dry and  
1 tablespoon savory fat or drip-  
flaky).  
pings.  
1 cup cottage cheese.  
1/4 teaspoon soda.  
1/2 cup ground peanuts.  
1 cup strained tomato.  
1 tablespoon chopped onion.

1 cup bread crumbs (or more). Mix well and form into a roll. Brush over with melted butter and bake in a moderate oven 25 minutes or until hot. Serve with a medium white sauce to which may be added two tablespoons minced pimento.

FRIED BREAD WITH COTTAGE CHEESE. Spread slices of stale bread thickly with cottage cheese, with which pimentos, nut meats, or some marmalade or jelly has been blended. Dip in a mixture of egg and milk, and fry quickly in butter or other fat. Variation. The egg and milk may be omitted, and the sandwich may be fried lightly in a very small amount of bacon fat.

CREAMED POTATOES WITH COTTAGE CHEESE. Re-heat cold diced or sliced potatoes in medium white sauce with cottage cheese. For the rule see preceding pages. The best seasoning for this sauce is slice of onion added to the milk while heating and chopped parsley and pimentos; 3/4 cup of potatoes and 1/4 cup of the sauce make a generous serving. Boiled new potatoes may be served whole with this sauce.

CONSERVATION POINTERS.

WHEY HONEY. 1 cup of whey. 1/2 cup of sugar, or 1/4 cup of corn syrup. Mix whey and sugar and boil the mixture till it is of the consistency of strained honey. This syrup will keep indefinitely, if properly bottled, and is delicious for spreading on waffles or pancakes. Used a little thinner it makes an excellent pudding sauce. Since it requires no thickening, it is the easiest possible sauce to make.

COTTAGE CHEESE OMELET. 2 eggs. 1 tablespoon chopped pimentos. 1/4 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons milk. 3 rounded tablespoons cottage 1/8 teaspoon soda. cheese. Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately. Add to the yolks the salt, the milk and the cheese with which has been blended the pimento. Finally fold in the stiffly beaten whites; pour into frying pan in which has been melted about 1/2 tablespoon fat. Cook the omelet slowly until the egg has set, place in the oven for a few moments to finish cooking, then fold over in the center. Garnish with parsley. Other seasonings may be used, such as chopped parsley, green pepper or minced ham.

Proportions. For each egg, use 1 tablespoon milk, 1/4 teaspoon salt, plenty of pepper, 1 rounding tablespoon cottage cheese, pinch of baking soda, fat to grease pan. Method. Mix eggs, seasonings and 1 tablespoon of milk for each egg. Scramble eggs as usual in greased pan till entirely cooked. Neutralize acid in cheese with soda, and stir lightly into egg. Variations. Parsley and pimento or chives, added to egg. Suggested supper or luncheon menu. Scramble eggs with cottage cheese; baked potatoes; dandelion or lettuce salad, or sliced tomatoes; barley muffins; fruit sauce.

RELIEF SOCIETY PIN. Because of an increase in the price of material, the jewelers handling the Relief Society pin report that it will be necessary in the future to charge $3.25 for the solid gold pin, and $1.25 for the gold filled pin.

How to Present the Genealogical Lesson. The Genealogical Committee of the General Board of the Relief Society held a public meeting in the class-room of the Utah Genealogical Library, on April 8, 1918. Representatives were present from about one-third of the stakes of Zion, although many had left for their homes at the close of the general conference, Sunday evening. The class was under the charge of the chairman of the committee, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, and after some brief welcoming greetings she introduced the two speakers, who treated the following subjects: "How to Secure the Interest and Attendance of Our Genealogical Students," by Mrs. Martha Gee Smith, wife of the Patriarch of the Church, Hyrum G. Smith; and "How to Make the Study of Race History Interesting," by Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler, our new General Board member. Mrs. Smith's address follows:

It is with a spirit of humility and dependence upon your faith and prayers that I stand before you this afternoon, praying the Lord will help me to give some information that will not only be interesting, but also beneficial, that you may take home to your respective wards and stakes ideas that will help you to secure the interest and increase the attendance at our genealogical classes. The interest of the class depends almost entirely upon the teacher with the help that she gets through prayer and study. No teacher can get the desired results in these lessons unless she depends upon our Father in heaven for guidance and assistance, because the genealogical lessons are spiritual lessons.

The majority of our genealogical class leaders are not college graduates, neither are they students of advanced history, but those who are willing to work, no matter if they have but a limited knowledge of history, can acquire the knowledge and skill to present these lessons interestingly and instructively. To such I hope to give some help and information. Let us always remember that all blessings are predicated on law and it is only by obedience to law that we obtain a blessing. So let us not forget, those of us who are keepers of the Word of Wisdom as pertaining to tea and coffee and other things forbidden of the Lord, that he has promised us a blessing. He says, we shall "receive wisdom and knowledge, even hidden treasures of knowledge," through the keeping of that law. Now, if we have done as we have been commanded of the Lord, we are heirs to this blessing and can claim it at his hand. The next requirement is that we must prepare these lessons as if we were to gain them solely through our own study and diligence and earnest seeking. We must seek help from books, finding knowledge wherever we can upon that particular lesson, always making allowance for the statements of historians who had not the Spirit of God to guide them. At the beginning, God was not only the Creator of man, but he was also man's teacher and friend, and taught Adam to read and write and keep a record; and only through disobedience to his commandments were men ever brought down to barbarism and degradation. Therefore, in studying the ancients, through any general history, let us make allowances for the facts stated which detract from the sure word of God as we have it in the Book of Mormon or Pearl of Great Price, or in any of the books given us of the Lord. Be converted to the vital necessity of your subject of study. For example, I will call your attention to the first set of lessons given us in the Home Economics department. Many of the sisters complained at these, saying: "Why should we study food or the feeding of babies, or about food values; we have reared our babies and why should we worry about the necessities and preparation of food at our age?" Now observe who is talking food and its value; the whole nation. How inspired were our leaders! The Home Economics department of the Relief Society gave a two-year course in the study of food and its value two years before the world at large gave it any serious thought. In the same way we hear from ward to ward, and in some places, from stake to stake, the cry: "Why need we go way back to Father Adam and study the history of the ancient world, when there seems so much to engage our time and energies in the topics of the day?" Perhaps I cannot answer such questions to your satisfaction just now, but I bear you my testimony that never in the range of my experience have I known the General Board of the Relief Society or any other auxiliary organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to give a course of study which was not inspired of the Lord, through the need of the knowledge outlined by the General Board of such organization. At some near future time I am sure we will all know just why we are now studying race history. We can find hundreds and thousands of women who will study about and do those things which pertain only to the temporal side of life, while by comparison, there are but a few who desire or who do obtain the privilege of going into the House of the Lord and doing the work for their kindred dead. Now in taking up these lessons there are many class leaders who will ask themselves this question: "How can I obtain the required knowledge so that I will be able to impart it to others intelligently?" First, then, do not be satisfied with just that information which you get in the Magazine. The facts found therein are simply notes which must be worked out and applied by the class leader, herself seeking further knowledge in every history, geography and encyclopedia to be found in the neighborhood. She should, however, always make allowances for such information as is found that would contradict the sure word of God. Second, make a liberal use of maps; in fact, I personally would be very reluctant to attempt the teaching of a class of this kind without having access to one or more good maps.

A blackboard is also indispensable. If the class leader is well acquainted with her lesson before undertaking to give it to others, she may be sure of securing their interest; because if anyone has useful knowledge or information to impart, or a message to give, he or she can be assured that the Lord will assist such a teacher to gain the interest of the class and the members will not miss a meeting day when it is genealogical class day. The assignment method is an excellent one to adopt. It has been my experience, and I can only speak from experience, that a greater number of the class will be interested if I assign each of the members in turn some part of the work to perform, than when I give it all myself. Next we face the question: "How shall I assign the lesson?" It is usually less interesting and more difficult to give out the questions found at the bottom of the outline than it is to assign various members of the class to give a brief talk on a chosen topic. For example, the teacher might say to one, "You talk a few minutes on Egypt;" to another, "Tell something of Shem, his descendants or his country." Or speak of "Ham and Japheth." Some may not like this method, so each class leader should be allowed to teach her class in her own individual way. If she gets results, that is the one and only criterion. Make use of the telephone by inquiring after those to whom you have assigned question topics. Call on them personally, if necessary; but when you go into their homes, don't talk about the ordinary things you see or the occupation you find them engaged in, but confine your talk to the subject you have assigned them, and then take your leave. When you are gone the sister you have visited will thank you for your help, and will not regret the time spent with you. Endeavor to arouse the sisters to a greater interest in actual temple work; for after all that is the main object in all this genealogical study and lesson work. You may find some sisters who are more interested in temple work than they are in the Relief Society or our lessons, and vice versa. Persuade them all to join the Relief Society; and when you attend your sacrament meetings, pick out such indifferent women and encourage them to join the work. Proselyte for the great Relief Society. To be sure, you may be only a genealogical class leader, but you can still be of great benefit to the Presidency of the Relief Society in this way, and in return you will learn that the officers of your Society will be right behind you in all that will benefit the organization in any way. May the Lord bless us all that we may never cease our efforts for good among his people, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler treated the subject of "How to Make the Study of Race History Interesting," touching upon the following points with illuminating skill and careful precision. The diagram which accompanies the lesson was especially suggestive. First, prepare the soil for the seed. Before the earth was formed a council was held and the plan of salvation was made. Time was divided into dispensations as an author divides his book into chapters. Each dispensation having its special work, and all to be bound into one complete volume—the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. The prophecy of the coming of Elijah. His work, part of the greatest work which belongs to this the last dispensation. The world has been moved upon to search out its genealogies, but upon the Latter-day Saints rests the great work of being saviors on Mt. Zion. They only can enter the house of God to bind and to seal or to weld together the links of the many generations into one perfect chain. We cannot stand alone; there is a line of relationship reaching out from each individual in the world to every other individual and all lines must be made perfect before the whole is perfect. In the accompanying diagram No. 1 represents a family of seven, showing their lines of relationship unbroken. No. 2, represents the house of Israel as the Latter-day Saints, or those doing work for their dead, are striving to have it. One complete, unbroken family. 

EDITORIAL

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. 

Motto