[Vol5 | December 1918 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Genealogy | Title: Lesson III - How a Great English Battle Started Surnames in]

LESSONS. 713
12. How is the period of time following Christ's ministry to the Nephites characterized?
13. What may we expect of that period when Christ shall come to reign as King?
LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in November.
LESSON III. Genealogy.
HOW A GREAT ENGLISH BATTLE STARTED SURNAMES IN ENGLAND. (Chapters XI and XII in Surname Book.)
Teachers' Outlines.
England has always been a melting pot for the Anglo-Saxon races. (a) First came the Angles and Saxons. (b) Then came the Danes. (c) Finally the Normans came over under William the Conqueror in 1066.
William the Conqueror, the great originator of English surnames. (a) He caused a list of his nobles to be placed in the Abbey built over his victorious battle-ground at Hastings. (b) He had a survey made of all his possessions and subjects which was recorded in a book called Domesday Book. (c) In these lists or records men were called by place names, nicknames, sire-names and trade names. Hence arose surnames, gradually and slowly until the habit was formed. By the 13th and 14th centuries most men had adopted surnames in England.
Lesson Statement.
England, like America, has been a melting-pot for the races and tribes of the earth; yet unlike America, England's various migrations were all from the Teutonic races, while America takes in nearly as many of the Latin, negro and oriental races as it has of the Anglo-Saxons.
England first had Britons and Celts. Next came the Angles and Saxons. Then came the Danes and Northmen who were all called Scandinavians in those days.

Finally, the Normans, who were Frenchified Scandinavians came over under William the Conqueror in 1066. The story of William's coming over is very interesting, for he was a great character. We think of Cromwell and Washington, of the Prophet Joseph Smith and Brigham Young, when we think of comparisons for William the Conqueror. Yet William was a man of his times and he was also a brave soldier. Read his story in the histories. He fought a great battle and at Hastings conquered the Anglo-Saxons and had himself proclaimed king of England.
The next day after the battle he told his clerks to make out a list of all his nobles and followers, especially those who had died in the battle, and to place them on an altar in a church or abbey, which he directed should be built on the very spot where he then stood; and this church was called Battle Abbey. He also made a law that at regular periods the priests of the new Abbey should pronounce masses for the souls of his followers who had fallen in battle at Hastings and at other points. We may say in passing that this custom of the Catholic Church is undoubtedly a relic or corrupted tradition of baptism for the dead.
This Battle Abbey list will be found in some surname books as it was preserved in a pretty fair shape through the ages, and in recent years it has been printed by the English people.
Men were known only by their first names at this period (1066 A. D.), but William wanted to make a census of his Norman nobles and his Anglo-Saxon subjects. Indeed, after he had divided up England and its rich lands and manors, seizing them from the Anglo-Saxons who had been conquered, he presented all the lands and properties in different amounts and lots to his barons and knights. In order to know just how much property there was in the kingdom and just how many men, he sent out a lot of clerks or heralds into every shire and had a census taken of the properties and of the men clear down to the last cotter in the kingdom. These names were written on sheets of parchment in Latin script and crowded together to save space, and all of them were gathered together and bound up in what is known as the Domesday Book.
Now, in making this list William's officers often spoke of the various men with the nickname, or as the son of, or as of a certain place, so that one William might be distinguished from another William in the same parish, and one John from all the other Johns. There would be William Fitz James, who was William the son of James; or William le Young, who was William Jr.; or Roger de Bois, who was Roger of the Wood; or Roger Cruickshanks, who was the Roger with knock-knees or bowlegs or crooked shanks.
Sons of these men found it convenient to continue the father's
nickname, his place of residence, or maybe his trade name attached to his own, so that the deeds of places might be carried on legally without confusion and mistakes of title, because many men bore the same personal names in the same parish. That is, Roger Cruickshanks' son William would be William Cruickshanks, and Roger de Bois' son William would call himself William de Bois; thus avoiding confusion in legal matters and giving themselves an added name by which to distinguish themselves and their families in the shire and in the village.
Thus it was that the Domesday Book and the Battle of Hastings started a custom in England of adding another name to the personal name and making it permanent. It might be said that a name did not become a surname until it had been borne by three generations, for men had inherited the custom of changing their names, both personal or surname very frequently for one reason or another.
We are told by antiquarians, historians and genealogists that the same custom of taking an added name or a surname began to prevail in Europe at about the same period, that is about the twelfth century. However, not until the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries did surnames really become permanent and fixed.
QUESTIONS.
What races settled in Great Britain? Who were the Anglo-Saxons? What is the difference between the Danes and Norsemen? Who were the Swedes? Tell the story of William the Conqueror. What can you say of Battle Abbey? Describe the Domesday Book. When and how are surnames formed? What is a surname?