We Lived After the Manner of Happiness" President Belle Spafford [Address delivered at the General Session of Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1970] Recorded In the Book of Mormon are words of— We lived after the manner of happiness? Can it be achieved in today's world? Should we strive to seek after it?" The achievement of a happy life is a Universal goal of mankind and properly so. The Book of Mormon tells us, "men are that they might have joy" (2 Nephi 2:25.) The Prophet Joseph Smith pointed out that men were endowed with certain inalienable rights, among them the pursuit of happiness. Men pursue happiness in many different ways and according to their differing concepts of what brings happiness. To some, the source of happiness is the acquisition of material wealth; to others, it is power and dominion. Yet again, it may be personal popularity and acclaim or personal pleasure; or, it may be overcoming the difficult, discovering the new, or conquering the unknown. To many of the Father's children, it is the peace that comes through obedience to his teachings. To most people, however, happiness at times seems somewhat abstract; certainly something that is transitory. Today it may be present in rich abundance, while tomorrow it may seem to have completely departed. We must learn, therefore, what constitutes true happiness—the kind that brings a certain form of inner delight, peace, and contentment, which is even more enduring than life itself. What, then, should be the pattern of our lives if we are to live after the manner of happiness? Let us consider how the people of Nephi lived when he declared they "lived after the manner of happiness." Nephi and his followers had suffered all manner of persecution at the hands of the Lamanites, even to the point that they sought to take the life of Nephi. The Lord warned him to separate from those people and flee with all who would go with him into the wilderness. The great exodus into the wilderness took place, accompanied by many hardships. At length, the group established itself at a place they called Nephi after their leader, and they designated themselves the people of Nephi. They appealed to Nephi to be their king, but he was desirous that they should have no king, but should be a free people. He became their chosen leader and teacher. Then Nephi states that they observed to keep the judgments and the statutes and the commandments of the Lord in all things. They raised flocks and herds of all kinds. They sowed seeds and harvested. They built buildings and worked in all manner of wood and of iron, and copper and of brass and of steel, gold, silver, and of precious ores which were in great abundance. They constructed a temple after the manner of the Temple of Solomon wherein they might worship the Lord their God. Then Nephi continues: "I did cause my people to be industrious, and to labor with their hands, and the Lord was with us, and we began to prosper exceedingly, and multiply in the land." (2 Nephi 5:17, 13) This, then, might be called Nephi's code for living after the manner of happiness: Freedom to choose who should be their ruler, industry, willingness to work, the development of talents and skills, love of God and obedience to his commandments. And the blessings of growth, prosperity, and happiness follow. This has been true with any nation or people who followed the eternal principles upon which true happiness rests. One of the favorite expressions of President George Albert Smith was: "The pathway of righteousness is the highway of happiness." It is not enough that we shall live after the manner of happiness for the benefit of the collective body only. The individual, too, must seek after his own personal happiness, knowing that this, too, is obtained through following the same basic patterns of living. Sometimes our personal problems bear us down and heavily tax us. Because they are hard to bear, they loom large and make deep impressions which remain with us, crowding out feelings of happiness, while the joys of life are so pleasant as to pass by swiftly. They seem to be so fleeting as almost to have been nonexistent. The memory of one's trials and the seeming fleeting nature of one's hours of happiness often lead to the feeling that there is precious little happiness in life for the individual. Yet, if it were possible to weigh both in the scales of life, I believe almost everyone would find life affords us far more true pleasure than pain. Otherwise, why does almost everyone cling so fast to life? I recall an aging sister whom I used to visit several years ago. She was physically infirm, her financial income had been quite sufficient for her needs—then suddenly it became limited. Then her busy family, while kind to her, spent less time with her than she thought they should, and she felt neglected. Each time I called on her, I heard the same question: "Why do I live on? ' 'We Lived After the Manner of Happiness" I'm growing so old and feeble; I'm so unhappy. I wish I could die!" One day, feeling particularly sympathetic toward her plight, my husband and I took her for a ride into the canyon to see the beautiful fall mountain foliage. When we were well into the canyon, we came upon some road repair work. My husband had to back the car a short distance and turn in a very narrow space. Some distance below us at the back of the car was a noisy rushing creek. "Oh!" the sister screamed, "be careful! You'll back us off the road and into the creek! We'll all be killed!" Calmly I replied, "Sister Smith, I thought you wanted to die. You've told me this many times." To this, she promptly replied, "Not today!" After we were safely on the road, she laughed and said, "You know, I'm really not as miserable as I like to make people think I am. Life has been good to me, and even now I'm quite happy." True happiness is within the reach of every one of us. Perhaps what we need is a better understanding of what are the factors that contribute to it, and how we may grasp these and make them a part of our lives. One wise philosopher has said, "Happiness consists in being, not having. It is not dependent upon wealth or even upon health. It does not rely on fame or so-called worldly success, but rather upon the conformity of our lives to those things which set at rest our minds and at peace our hearts." Latter-day Saints know that its fountainhead is love of God and obedience to his laws, and that one of its greatest sources of nourishment is love of fellowmen. Service to others is essential to joy in living. We cannot live selfishly and be completely happy.

Some of the greatest joys and happiness-promoting experiences of our lives come to us when we do for another, lifting the load, buoying up the spirit; and, conversely, some of the most poignant and enduring torments of conscience come from failure to meet our responsibility to others. Happiness is an infallible by-product of service. We know, too, that while trial may bring pain and suffering, the ability to rise above it or master it brings compensatory inner satisfactions and joy as well as eternal rewards. The development and expression of our creative abilities also result in a high degree of good feeling. I am always impressed with this when I read in Genesis the story of the creation of the earth which concludes: "And God saw everything that he had made, and, behold, it was very good." (Genesis 1:31.) Sad, indeed, would be the life of any individual who did not live creatively and productively. To be a contributor to life, within the scope of our capabilities, rather than a drone, is expected of us. In so doing, we earn a cherished reward—the happiness that comes from being useful. Thus, as individuals, we pursue happiness—through righteousness, and through service, through creative expression, through social usefulness. These things do not spring up and flourish voluntarily. They are fostered 806 through the labor of our minds, hearts, and hands.

Relief Society offers limitless opportunities to the women of the Church to nourish the essential elements of a happy life, and through the years sisters have testified that this, indeed, happens. Let me read one typical testimony, taken from minutes of the Kanab Relief Society, March 1882: Sister Morris put in over thirty years of Christian work in Relief Society. Her life, though continuously fraught with trials and hardship, has been to the outward observer like a placid river, flowing toward the Kingdom of God. When the summons comes for her to join the choir invisible and gather with that mighty throng of men and women whose garments have been washed in the blood of the Lamb and who have valiantly trodden the winepress of affliction, she will receive the Master's "well done, thou good and faithful servant; enter into the joy of the Lord." Happy, happy, happy has been her earthlife. Joyful will be her eternal life.

Another testimony, written in a letter received at the General Board office within the past few weeks, reads: I felt I should write and tell you of the recent death of our beloved Mother, Sister Lydia Larson, at the age of 91 years. For 73 years, she has been a faithful member of Relief Society, joining when she had just turned 18. She loved the Society and all it stands for. She taught her five daughters never to underestimate its worth. Mother lived a simple, beautiful life. I don't mean to say she had no hardships or sorrows; in fact, as we look back over the years, we think that perhaps she had more than her share of life's vicissitudes. But none of us remember her ever seeming to be defeated or unhappy. Her life seems to have been like a symphony of sweet thoughts, good deeds, inner strength and courage, peace and happiness. We girls all know that Relief Society brought to her the teachings, the opportunities, and the feelings of usefulness that gave her a saintly composure. Since you are now the president, we express to you our gratitude for all the Society did for Mother and for all it is now doing for her daughters and granddaughters.

Today, there is much talk in our nation about a _ volunteer army to fight our military battles. May I suggest the need of the world for a volunteer army to fight the forces of evil that are impairing man's well-being and destroying his happiness. Within the Church there is such "We Lived After the Manner of Happiness," an army with its recruits stationed in many lands—men and women who carry on the works of righteousness; men and women with faith in God who watches over his children; men and women of charity, of courage, of patience, of understanding insight; men and women who take the high path and who reach up and out and forward; men and women who stand by the ideals and patterns of life revealed by the Lord to his prophets—patterns of life, the reward of which is inner peace and true happiness.