LIVING WATER" Counselor Louise W. Madsen [Address delivered at the General Session of Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1970]

It was on a journey from Judea to Galilee in which "he must needs go through Samaria" that Christ came to a city called Sychar, "near to the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph." Jacob's well was there and "Jesus being wearied with his journey, sat thus on the well: and it was about the sixth hour." There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water: Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink. Then saith the woman of Samaria unto him, How is it that thou, being a Jew, askest drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria? For the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans.

Jesus answered and said unto her, If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is that saith to thee, Give me to drink; thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water. The woman saith unto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep: from whence then hast thou that living water? Art thou greater than our father Jacob, which gave us the well, and drank thereof himself, and his children, and his cattle? Jesus answered and said unto her, Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again: But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life. (John 4:7-14.) The woman, not understanding, asked for the water that she need come to the well no longer. Further conversation ensued in which "The woman saith unto him, Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet." (John 4:19.) Christ taught her: But the hour cometh, and now is, when true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth: for the Father seeketh such to worship him. The woman saith unto him, I know that Messias cometh, which is called Christ: when he is come, he will tell us all things. J Jesus saith unto her, I that speak unto thee am he. (John 4:23-26.) When she heard this wonderful declaration the woman ran back to the city of Sychar and told the people what Jesus had said to her. Many people went out to see him and invited him to stay with them. He stayed for two days and many believed his teachings. When he left to continue his journey to Galilee, the people said to the woman who first met Jesus: Now we believe, not because of thy saying: for we have heard him ourselves, and know that this is indeed the Christ, the Saviour of the world. (John 4:42.) From the very beginning of his ministry, Jesus taught of himself that he was the Christ. He again made that affirmation to the woman at Jacob's well. To each of us who thirsts there is the promise that the "living water" Christ gives "shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life." This well is constant, endless, never dry. One has but to drink, to sip, to taste, to be aware that the well within us, the living water of the word of God, if kept pure and uncontaminated, will keep us alive in the faith and lead us to eternal salvation. Because of the well within us others may be refreshed from its "living water." From each of us can emanate a spirit of goodness, of sisterliness. In Relief Society we share our knowledge of the gospel, we teach one another its truths and all virtuous and lovely things. The words of our testimonies, the actions of our lives, the loving service we give communicate the power of our desire to do those things which are 812 pleasing in the sight of the Lord. They bear witness that we have drunk from the well of living water. "Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled" (Matt. 5:6), we read in the Bible. "And blessed are all they who do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled with the Holy Ghost" (3 Nephi 12:6), the Book of Mormon further expounds. To be filled with the Holy Ghost is to have the knowledge that Jesus is the Christ which knowledge is necessary to gain eternal life. But how shall we come into possession of that knowledge? I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you for ever; Even the Spirit of truth; whom the world cannot receive because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye know him; for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you. (John 14:16-17.) This Comforter is the promise which I give unto you of eternal life, even the glory of the celestial kingdom. (D&C 88:4.) The Comforter teaches the truth.

These are the days spoken of by the Lord through the Prophet Joseph Smith which "in consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men" (D&C 89:4) are difficult days in which to live. We have been warned and forewarned. Jesus said, "Take heed that no man deceive you." (PofGP - Joseph Smith 1:5.) Yet we have been promised that "whoso treasureth up my word shall not be deceived." (PofGP - Joseph Smith 1:37.) Surely this is a most gratifying promise! To be certain that all the wiles of Satan as he works with "conspiring men" cannot deceive those who treasure the word of God is reassuring. Our constant search for spiritual knowledge, our firm testimonies will stand us in good stead. When evil puts on the guise of right, we will not be deceived; when reason seems to point to false conclusions, we will not be deceived; when many in the world lean to the philosophies of men, we will not be deceived. "He that re-"

Living Water" remains steadfast the same shall be saved." (PofGP - Joseph Smith 1:11.) With the gift of living water, the well of knowledge within us, with our thirsting after righteousness and being filled with the Holy Ghost, the strength of pure faith shall guide us to live as the Lord would have us live in this world so that we merit the highest blessings of the eternal world. May this be so I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.