Report and Official Instructions President Belle S. Spafford Vu LEE $4 Berea "q Ty Sunssenaayines EXRADEE ARAN ee Je b - Be 8pada dtOEE EEE EE:(th FCCC CEL ECELCLELT se RO eee REHHHHHHHaaaeae aa ooo assdaansaauasaaaadsiisineceateee Vv VV Vv vy oo VV Ve VV eee ree heh hve rh time for presentation at this meeting. In reporting some activities, therefore, we have estimated growth and accomplishments for the current year in line with increases during the previous fiscal year. Precise figures will be made available to you when the reports for 1969-70 are audited and figures are compiled.

There is abundant evidence that Relief Society is growing in numbers and in its power for good, and that the programs of the Society hold the interest and meet the needs of women. We note with gratitude the power of the Society in influencing right the attitudes and conduct of its members. This is particularly pleasing as it relates to the younger members, many of whom are enrolled in campus Relief Societies.

There are presently 523 stake Relief Society organizations, 92 mission organizations, 381 mission district organizations, 6,793 ward and branch Societies (4,777 in stakes; 2,016 in missions). During the past year, stakes have been organized in far-away Japan and in South Africa, with additional stakes being created in Australia, New Zealand, South America, Mexico, and other areas far removed from Church headquarters showing evidence of the growth and expansion of the Church.

This is a day when philosophies strange to Latter-day Saints are springing up with regard to woman, her rights, her relationships to her mate, her function as a childbearer and rearer and a homemaker, and her place in public life. There is a growing opinion among people 814 that it is her privilege to live and to do as she chooses, unhampered by laws that are regarded as antiquated, such as marriage and divorce laws, and moral codes that are considered outmoded, such as those that relate to childbearing, the restraints of religious teachings, and social traditions which glorify the role of woman as a mother and homemaker. Movements are springing up in this nation and elsewhere that advocate extreme viewpoints with regard to woman's role in life, and that militantly demand an acceptance of her as being totally on a par with man, ignoring the natural differences between man and woman which enter so markedly into the quality and character of woman's labors and into her primary role as defined by the Lord.

Relief Society must stand as a fortress against the penetration into the lives of our sisters of philosophies and viewpoints that are not in harmony with God's divine plan for his daughters and which run counter to the teachings of presiding Church authorities. It must do so with strength equal to the task. The teachings of Relief Society have never been more urgently needed than they are today to help our sisters wisely to order their lives, to shape right their thinking and attitudes and influence their conduct, and to enable them properly to meet the responsibilities placed upon them by the Lord.

Relief Society leaders owe it to Latter-day Saint women to be tireless in helping them to know and appreciate the values of Relief Society and the benefits of actively participating in its work.

While new rulings of the Church have dispensed with the payment of membership dues, we call your attention to the regulation contained in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions that admittance to membership is by vote of the members present. Reports reaching the General Board indicate that this important regulation is sometimes neglected. This should not happen. Even though membership dues have been eliminated, membership cards will continue to be issued annually to all enrolled sisters in recognition of and as evidence of membership.

Two major changes have taken place in Relief Society programs in recent months at the direction of The First Presidency. One is the change in the funding program from self-financing to financing through a Church budget system. This applies to all units of Relief Society, including the General Board. It relieves the Society of independently conducting fund-raising programs, including the holding of bazaars.

With reference to bazaars, a letter dated July 17, 1970 from The First Presidency, addressed to All Stake Presidents, Bishops, Mission Presidents, District Presidents, Branch Presidents, and Auxiliary Heads of General Boards, states: "The Relief Society is hereafter to be supported from the budget, as have been other auxiliaries in the past, which will relieve the Relief Society of the burden of fund-raising projects such as bazaars." Should plans for this year be already under way and money expended for materials, it might be well to consider continuing the project for this year only, but in the future the new policy stated above should be followed. The new funding program became effective with the beginning of the current fiscal year, September 1, 1970.

Relief Society presidents were directed to turn over to their respective presiding priesthood authority all cash on hand as of that date. The plan contemplates that a careful estimate of budgetary needs for the forthcoming year will be considered with the respective priesthood authorities and that these will be met through the ward or stake budget in a way that will not curtail approved programs and activities of the Society.

The methods whereby money from the budget is made available to Relief Society by the local priesthood and the system of accounting to the priesthood for disbursements will be determined by the brethren. It is anticipated that Relief Societies will enter in their respective record books the income received from the budget and also the amount of disbursements and the purposes for which these were made. The compiled figures on income and disbursements no doubt will be included in the annual reports.

Definite instructions will be mailed to you later regarding this. We suggest that in estimating budgetary needs, Relief Society presidents keep in mind such essentials as record books, visiting teacher report books, essential supplies, lesson textbooks for organization use and lesson aid materials; materials and equipment, including sewing machines where needed for the homemaking program, as well as a modest allowance for luncheon items on homemaking day; essential nursery equipment and supplies, bearing in mind that some of these can be made by the sisters during the homemaking meeting; music, the Anniversary Day program and spring and fall socials, which are so conducive to the happiness of the Society. (Social activities have always been an integral part of the program of Relief Society. May I remind you that they should always reflect the dignity and high social standards of the Society? We especially refer to fashion shows.)

In some instances, nurseries have entailed considerable costs. Insofar as reasonable and possible, we suggest that unpaid help be used in the nursery program. Where this is not reasonable nor feasible, the matter should receive careful consideration by the presidency and an appropriate recommendation should be made to the local priesthood authority for his consideration, approval, and financial support. It would seem that under no circumstances would anyone other than the sister in charge of the nursery be on a paid basis.

The nursery program has definite bearing on the enrollment and attendance of young mothers, for whom Relief Society teachings are so essential. We remind you that the program is most satisfactorily carried out where one woman is continuously in charge, with as much help being given her as the number of children demands. Plans should include care of infants who have their own carriages, bassinets, or other types of carriers which do not require the infant to be held in arms throughout the period of the Relief Society meeting.

The new ruling with regard to bazaars has given rise to many questions related to the Homemaking Program. Sisters, we feel this program, while altered by change, is excitingly promising. The focus will be changed from volume of production of items, an important consideration in what is produced, to a focus on activities that will have direct bearing on their value to the individual members and their individual homes. In the Presidencies Department of this Conference, suggestions and recommendations of the General Board will be given which we feel confident will inspire and challenge you and which should bring new vitality to the Homemaking Program.

The General Board has collected a packet of booklets and leaflets on a wide variety of subjects to aid homemaking leaders in planning homemaking meetings. The booklets contain factual, authentic information on many facets of homemaking. The packet may be obtained by stake and mission homemaking leaders at a cost of $2.50. Only one packet can be allowed for each stake, mission, or mission district.

We are of the opinion that there is no objection to the continuation of the traditional art and skill of quilting under the following regulations:

1. Custom quilting with earnings turned over to the bishop or branch president to apply on Relief Society's budget allowance.
2. Quilting for individual members of the Society where the individual provides the materials and the sisters willingly donate the quilting labor.
3. Quilting on infant or plain quilts as a means of teaching this art and skill to Relief Society members with Relief Society buying the material and the quilt being disposed of at cost by decision of the presidency to a needy member or other deserving sister.

Another major change in our program is the discontinuance of The by action of The First Presidency effective with the issue. We realize, sisters, that the discontinuance of the Magazine after fifty-six years during which it has served the Society well and been a source of inspiration, instruction, enlightenment, an interchange of ideas, as well as providing an outlet for the creative writings of the women of the Church, brings feelings of sadness to our hearts. We must remember, however, that with the growth and expansion of the Church, changes must be anticipated, accepted, and adjustments to new ways and new programs made with willingness and faith in the inspiration that guides our leaders.

The General Board is giving prayerful consideration to how all of the essential services rendered by the Magazine through its various features may be met in new and effective ways. As you know, lessons for use through will appear in the s issued during the balance of the 1970 year. Lessons thereafter will be issued in manual form, with the lesson helps continued. Full details with regard to the manuals, such as contents, costs, where they may be obtained, will be mailed to you as soon as this information is ready.

Conference addresses heretofore published in the Magazine will be included with the other Conference material distributed in mimeographed form following the Conference. It has been deemed advisable to discontinue the poem and short story contests, at least for the time being. Should they be reopened, you will be notified. The music contest, of course, will be continued.

The General Board acknowledges with grateful appreciation the faithful and capable services of the sisters who through the years have held the office of magazine representatives. We regret the loss as officers of the sisters presently holding the position of magazine representatives, either on the stake, mission, or district boards, or in ward or branch organizations.

The termination of the and the change in the method of financing Relief Society automatically require changes in the information to be called for in the record books as well as in the annual reports for 1970-71. Time and decisions yet to be made have not allowed for new record book fillers to be printed as yet. Kindly use the current fillers, omitting information affected by the changes.

Changes also affect regulations in the Handbook of Instructions which is already undergoing revision.

Time this morning does not allow for even a brief review of all of the courses of study for the 1970-71 year. We suggest a careful reading of the Previews published in the issue of the Magazine. Sisters, please preserve this issue for reference.

It is felt that mention should be made of the new spiritual living course "The Pearl of Great Price" planned as a three-year course. Through the study of The Pearl of Great Price, Relief Society women will have an opportunity to learn new truths, receive verification of truths known in other scriptures, and gain an increased testimony of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith.

One can read the entire Pearl of Great Price in less than two hours. It was recommended in the preview that every member of Relief Society read the book from cover to cover before the first lesson was presented. Those sisters who did not do this should still be encouraged to do so.

The Cultural Refinement Course offers a special kit containing copies of four art masterpieces available through the Deseret Book Company outlets in Utah and California. (Price $2.00.)

Second session Relief Societies have the full endorsement of the General Board. Instructions for conducting them, issued by the presiding Church Authorities, remain as originally issued and are published in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions.

Some stake Relief Society presidents express concern that in some wards the new MIA Mutual Interest Program is regarded as obviating the need for second session Relief Societies scheduled for evenings. We are assured by our Advisors that there need be no conflict; that one program does not duplicate nor substitute for the other in purpose or activities.

Since the all-Lamanite and foreign language societies are growing in number and leadership strength, and are eagerly seeking more help directed toward their special needs, the General Board recommends that in English-speaking stakes where either or both groups are located, that the stake Relief Society president consult with the stake president with a view to having a sister called to the stake board for this special and needed service.

The sister called to this office would work with either group as needed. Where there are both types of organizations in a stake or mission, she would serve both. The qualifications of the sister for this special calling would need to be carefully considered.

Statistical figures give evidence of advances in almost every facet of Relief Society work. (The following figures are estimates for the 1969-70 year based on actual increases of the previous year):

Visiting Teaching: approximately 5,412,401 visits—an increase of 175,000 made by more than 150,195 visiting teachers.

Eight-hour days bedside nursing care of the sick: 47,592 or an increase of 5,574 days.

Visits to the sick and homebound: 379,182 visits. There was a decrease of over 7,000 visits in this important service. Presidents, please take note of this and urge ward presidents not to neglect the homebound.

Other compassionate services: 806,608 hours, or an increase of 33,536 hours.

Church Welfare Visits to Families under the direction of bishops: 71,802 visits, or a decrease of 12,000. However, 73,931 other contacts authorized by bishops were made by Relief Society presidents to families needing special attention. There were over 50,000 Relief Society members who assisted on welfare projects during the 1969-70 fiscal year.

Report and Official Instructions

Music, which has brought joy and development to Relief Society members, as well as a spirit of worship to our meetings, continues to improve. Singing Mothers choruses are proving to be missionary instruments. The 3,919 choruses report a combined membership of 49,689 singers. The Singing Mothers rehearsals should not be scheduled during the hours of the regular Relief Society meetings. It is often a convenience to the singers, however, to hold them prior to or following the meeting.

The General Board appreciates your support of and participation in priesthood directed Relief Society sessions of the Regional Conference. It is requested that minutes be taken of these meetings.

Sisters, this is an exciting and challenging period of time to be identified with this great worldwide sisterhood, bound together in love and priesthood guided and directed. The protective watchcare of the Lord under whose direction Relief Society was founded has been over us continuously for over 128 years. This and the inspired guidance of the presiding Priesthood Authorities have led us to our present position of worldwide influence and strength. It will ever be so if we are obedient to priesthood direction and humbly and prayerfully seek the help of an all-wise Heavenly Father.