[Vol50 | July 1963 | Page 542 | Lesson | Theology — The Law of Forgiveness • Roy | W. Doxey]
[Theology — The Law of Forgiveness • Roy W. Doxey]

Shakespeare said it this way, "Heat not a furnace for your foe. So hot that it do singe yourself:" Jesus fully realized the damaging effect of unforgiveness upon our characters and ° personalities. He said, "Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and ersecute you" (Matt. 5:44). This One of the world's most beautiful ountains, located in Jasper NationPark in Canada, was named for dith Cavell. Edith Cavell was a artime nurse executed by her emies for having hidden, nursed, d fed wounded soldiers. As she ood before the firing squad she ttered these deathless words now reserved in bronze and granite, "I lize that patriotism is not enough. Must have no hatred or bitterness ward anyone." If we have been wronged or inred, forgiveness means to blot it mpletely from our minds. 'To LESSON DEPARTMENT forgive and forget is an ageless counsel. "To be wronged or robbed," said the Chinese philosopher Con- -fucius, "is nothing unless you continue to remember it." In addition to the purifying and ennobling 'effects forgiveness has upon our own souls, this principle comes to us as divine instruction from our Father in heaven, and is a requisite upon which he grants us his forgiveness. It has been said, "He that cannot forgive others, breaks the bridge over which he must pass himself, for every man hath need to be forgiven." The Savior said "For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your Heavenly Father will also forgive you" (Matt. 6:14). WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home rt. Virginia F. Cutler or Second Meeting, October 1963 I } F all our social institutions, none exerts stronger or more lasting fluence upon the development of mily. Moral values, artistic. And cultural tastes, goals and aspirations are first implanted in the family circle. This imposes on the family group the necessity to work harMoniously together to develop con- € individual personality than the I genial and cooperative relationships Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) iscussion 9: The Family As a Planning Group jective: To encourage family members to actively engage in planning sessions where I matters pertaining to family betterment may be studied and wise solutions developed. With each other here on earth. Regular planning sessions facilitate the achievement of these goals. For the most part, a family living in one household is a two-generation family — parents and_ -: children. However, the third and fourth generations should not be forgotten in the planning. Final decisions are.