[Vol50 | July 1963 | Page 504 | Poem | City Pool | Eva Willes Wangsgaard]
City Pool Eva Willes Wangsgaard The rain ceased falling, and while walking I came upon a lonely pool Imprisoned in a stony hollow — The pavement warm, the water cool. A boy swung happy toes across it And later robins came to sport, But there was only sky above it, No leafy branch of any sort. Never to climb a birch tree fountain, Never to be one with grass or clover; Only the sun's hot rays as outlet, Then make the long, slow journey over! 504 ME: OLGA PEARSON ENGDAHL, of Omaha, Nebraska, was selected as American Mother of the Year from among fifty successful State candidates, in New York City in May. A queenly woman, she has given countless days of service as a volunteer hospital worker and in other humanitarian efforts, in addition to being the successful mother of six sons and one daughter. RS ORA NELSON ANDERSON, Brigham city, Utah's Mother of the Year, was one of five mothers to receive a special citation. Hers was for "extraordinary skills in the art of homemaking." She has _ wallpapered, painted, and tiled her home and made almost all her children's clothing. She received her award in a handsome black suit made by herself. Mrs. Anderson has three daughters and four sons, all outstanding. Me EMILY HANCOCK (DAVID) sm1TH, Idaho Falls, another Latter-day Saint woman, was the Idaho Mother of the Year. Mother of eleven children, grandmother of ninety-one, great-grandmother of seven, she was matron of the Idaho Falls temple for six years while her husband was temple president. She stressed both the gospel and educational pursuits in teaching her children. Dr. Roy Fugal, of New York City (son of Mrs. Lavina C. Fugal, Utah and American Mother of 1955), as chairman of the Advisory Board of the American Mothers Committee, presented to successful candidate Mrs. Engdahl, the motherhood statuette by Latter-day Saint sculptor Avard Fairbanks, which has been the National Mother award for several years. ELLE S. SPAFFORD, General President of Relief Society, a member of the National Board, attended the proceedings. ARY BROWN CLARK, of Provo, Utah, 104 years old, born in Lehi in 1859 to pioneer parents John and Amy Snyder Brown, has recently become a great-great-greatgrandmother, with the birth of Richard Saxton in Heber City. All six generations in the descent of baby Richard are living. Mrs. Clark's father, John Brown, accompanied Orson Pratt as a scout and saw Salt Lake Valley from the summit of Big Mountain on July 19, 1847— the first view by any of the pioneers. 505 Modern Pioneers HE word pioneer may conjure up a picture of a woman whose long skirts draggle in the dust trudging wearily over the miles to reach a shining goal where opportunity dwells. In today's world with the land bought up and fenced off, the role of the pioneer may seem to have vanished. However "one who opens up new lands" is only one definition of pioneer. It also means to open up or prepare a way. There is great need for individuals to pioneer today — to strike out away from the ways of the world, from evil trends, wicked practices, and the enticements of conspiring men. Relief Society members can pioneer in many fields, many of which were practiced by their pioneer forebears, by their grandmothers and greatgrandmothers. Recently a young woman was getting married who pio- 506 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer neered in acquiring her household furniture. She accepted offers from relatives and kind friends of castoff pieces of furniture. Then, through ingenuity and a moderate outlay of cash, coupled with imagination and painstaking labor, the castoffs — though of different periods and styles — were brought into a harmonious whole. 'The effect was very homelike and attractive, and there was no bondage to debt in the months ahead of making monthly payments. Many families and friends, learning of the desire of a young couple to make over and make do, are happy to assist in this way.; Another wife pioneered in doing genealogical work, giving up a social group to enabie her and her husband to search out their progenitors. Certainly this was modern pioneering, for they were the first to prepare the way for their beloved ancestors to attain exaltation. A mother and father pioneered in the recreational needs for their teen-age children. Unable to provide money for movies and attendance at other public places of amusement each week, they planned "game" parties for each Friday night to which their children invited their friends. They enjoyed gala occasions with little expense except for the food. Sometimes, instead of games, the evening was spent pulling taffy, making other candies, or preparing other types of food. 'These party plans spread to the friends' homes also where the pioneer joys of partying at home became - a happy practice. It takes courage to pioneer, and a conviction of the rightness of one's cause. 'here must be a goal in view. Any sister who feels dissatisfied with matters as they are being practiced in her home can become, through enthusiasm, planning, persistence, and good judgment, added to courage, a modern pioneer and attain the satisfaction of creativity as she improves the lot of her family by pioneering new ways. —M. C. S. 507 The Brainstorm Helen S. Phillips Jr was right after fall round-up I last year that I had my first brainstorm. Since our ranch country is so far from civilization, school is always dismissed for a week every fall so we boys can help round up the cattle. We hadn't been back in classes too long, the day Pudge Lambert and I were eating lunch together out on the playground. Pudge hadn't earned his nickname for nothing. Enviously, I watched him tear into three sandwiches, two apples, and start in on a huge stack of homemade oatmeal cookies, while I choked down the usual Rusty Cameron special: one dry san

dwich and a couple of storebought cupcakes. "If I had that many cookies, I'd sure divide up with a pal,' I re- 508 marked, my mouth watering. "Rusty, pal, why don't you bring your own?" Pudge mumbled through bulging cheeks. That did it! "You know I would, if there was anybody at home to make them," I said, heatedly. "Why doesn't your dad hire a housekeeper then?" Pudge asked, as he finally handed me a couple of his precious cookies. "At least they can bake things." "Who wants a housekeeper?" I swallowed another delicious mouthful. "I've decided that what Dad and I need around our ranch is a mother. This isn't the first time I've thought so, either." Pudge eyed me with a frown. "Rusty Cameron, are you serious?" When I said I was, he warned, "You don't really have it so bad, you know. Fathers don't make you put on clean clothes every day, and I'll bet you and your Dad get to eat anything you want. What's so wrong with that?" "Plenty!" I said emphatically, reaching for more cookies. How could I explain the way an empty house echoed, with no mother there to welcome you home from school? Or how your Dad could be like a real buddy when you were doing the chores together but forget to make conversation during the long, lonely evenings? 'Those were just two reasons. There were about a hundred others. "Lately, I've been thinking about this mother business a lot," I continued. "Since Mom died, it does seem like Dad could have found someone for us by this time, if he had just put his mind to it. Dad says it gets tiresome after awhile, having women fall all over him just because he's a widower. So I've decided it's up to me." "You are serious!" Pudge exclaimed. "I suppose next you'll be telling me you have someone picked out." "Not exactly, but I'm working on it," I admitted. This project wasn't going to be easy. Even I have noticed that ladies don't stay out in our ranch country unless they're already married. Pudge and I began counting. There was Miss Agatha, Bud Skinner's old maid aunt out at the Circle Bar S. She's kinda wrinkled and skinny, though, probably too old for my Dad, even. Then there is Miss Flossie, the doctor's sister, who plays the organ in church on SunTHE BRAINSTORM day. Sometimes she accompanies her own soprano solos. If she sounded like that at round-up, boy! The cattle would stampede for sure. She doesn't look too much like a moth- €f, ener. That left only our new school teacher. For some reason, Dad doesn't have too much use for teachers. Once at a church supper I heard old Mrs. Grigsby say it was too bad that every year the new teacher always sets her cap for Tom Cameron, and him still carrying a torch for his dead wife. That shows you how much Mrs. Grigsby knows about it. Who needs torches? Our ranch has electricity now, even in the barn. "If you're smart, you'll choose Miss Marston," Pudge said. "So far, she's the neatest teacher we've had yet. Prettiest, too." HE lunch bell rang, and we took our seats. Right away I started drawing my map of Asia Minor, because it gave me a chance to study Miss Marston. She really was pretty, with soft brown hair and blue eyes that crinkled when she smiled. She smiled at us a lot, too, like she was happy to bea teacher. Like she didn't even mind teaching in a one-room schoolhouse clear out here in Hawk Springs. I decided it wouldn't take much practice for her to start being a mother. Now all I had to do was get her and Dad together. Dad isn't too crazy about PTA, but I had to start somewhere. After dinner that night, when he said, "Homework, son?" I had my second brainstorm. "Just about a ton of it is all," I 


 groaned, crossing my fingers. "Also, Miss Marston might think I haven't been getting the right help at home. She says." "Never mind what she says," Dad interrupted, getting red in the face. Actually, my dad is very smart. He can help me find the answer to practically anything. "Did you say there's PTA tonight? Sounds as if I'd better go after all. I need to get a few things straightened out in my own mind." He stood up and reached for his hat. "You'd better wear your best clothes," I said, not daring to look at him. "Miss Marston is really pretty." "Just another old maid_ schoolteacher," he grunted, but I noticed he took a shower and changed clothes before he left. I was still doing my homework when he came home a couple of hours later. From the way he stomped in, looking cross and grumpy, I knew better than to ask questions. "Aren't you in bed yet?" he barked. Boy! Dad hardly ever raises his voice at anyone, so something really bad must have happened. As I headed for bed, I heard him mutter, "As for that new teacher, she's the stubbornest woman I ever met. Made it pretty clear she had no use for me, either." GcHOOL wasn't so good the next day, either. Miss Marston didn't smile at anyone, and even the other students noticed that she kept picking on me. "Let's hear all your times tables, Rusty," she said in a stern voice. "Only recently I have been informed 510 that my teaching methods are somewhat questionable. We must correct that, along with a few other strong opinions. Which certain people seem to hold." None of us knew exactly what she was talking about, but boy! I was tired of those seven times tables before she let me take my seat. Well — things hadn't started out too well, but I wasn't ready to give up yet. Talking to Pudge after school gave me an idea for my next plan of action. "Miss Marston is coming out to our place tonight," he announced importantly. "Mom invited her to dinner and she said, good, that would give her a chance to have a conference about me." A conference with the teacher? I had never heard of it, but if Pudge got to have one, then so should I. I hurried back inside the schoolhouse. Miss Marston looked up from her desk. "Why, Rusty," she exclaimed, "what is it? Aren't you supposed to ride home with the other boys?" "My horse can catch up with theirs any day," I bragged. Then I stole a peek at her face. Boy! She was even prettier up close. I didn't realize I was staring until she began to blush. "Uh Miss Marston uh " My tongue was getting all twisted up. "I think you should have a conference with my Father... About my homework," I added hastily. "Would it be convenient for you to come in time for dinner tomorrow night?" "Rusty, are you sure?" she began, but I crossed my fingers and did my best to look innocent. Then she drew a deep breath. "Maybe he does see my point of view!" she smiled. "You may tell your father I'll be there." I wish I could report that the conference was a big success, but, like George Washington, I cannot tell a lie. I hurried home after school the next night and went straight to the kitchen, instead of going out to help with the chores. Company meant cake, so I got out Mom's old cookbook and started mixing things up. Mixed up is nght! That about describes the way things were when Miss Marston arrived at the front door. Just about then, Dad came in from doing chores. Anyone could tell by the way he looked that he wasn't expecting company. Especially not Miss Marston, who looked especially dressed up. HE looked at Dad, then at me. "Tm sorry," she said stiffly, "apparently I misunderstood Rusty yesterday.... I got the impression you wanted to have a conference with me concerning his schoolwork." Mrs. Grigsby says that for a rancher, my father has impeccable manners, whatever they are. "I'm sure that a conference might be helpful," he said politely. "Would you excuse me for a few minutes? Rusty, you can entertain our guest while I change." Of course he meant for me to take her into the living room, but first thing I knew, Miss Marston had tied a dish towel around her waist and was helping me finish the cake. When Dad came back, all three of us cooked scrambled eggs and bacon, and IJ thought the dinner THE BRAINSTORM turned out just fine in every way. Even a blind man could see that Miss Marston would make a perfect mother. I kept watching Dad, to see if he noticed. If he did, he surely wasn't letting on! As soon as the conference began, I went in the other room to do homework. Both of them were very polite to each other, but their conversation didn't sound too friendly. "Frankly, Miss Marston, I think a city girl has no business signing a contract to teach school in the country," Dad said, at one point in the conference. "This is no land for softies. You probably won't last any longer than the other teachers who came out here and wasted a year of their lives, as they said." "We'll see who's a softie," she retorted crisply. "I happen to believe that a person can adapt to any environment he or she chooses. If she likes people, that is." That's the way it went most of the evening. I didn't hear much conference about me, though. Finally, it was time for Dad to see her home. Out here we never let ladies ride alone after dark. As they went out the door I whispered, "Dad, be sure to kiss her goodnight!" They both acted like they couldn't hear me. Sometimes grownups are so funny! I guess he didn't kiss her. Because after dinner the next night, Dad came out all dressed up like it was some special occasion. I eyed him hopefully. "Something going on I haven't heard about?" He laughed and clapped me on the shoulder. "Rusty, don't you think it's time we considered having a woman around here?" 


 "Boy!" I whooped, "that would be neat. Miss Marston's the one I'd choose, too!" His grin faded. "That Miss Princess? As a matter of fact, I'm taking Miss Flossie to the square dance tonight. She's our type, son, more than any city girl would be." Well how do you like that? I certainly didn't! For the next couple of weeks, Dad just ignored me if I mentioned Miss Marston. Instead, he dated Miss Flossie so often that everyone was talking about it. When I saw the silly way she acted around Dad, though, and he didn't mind, I got a scary, cold feeling inside. Surely, he wasn't serious! Couldn't he see she just wasn't the mother type? That's how matters stood the morning of the storm. I had my horse all saddled and ready to leave for school when Dad cocked an eye at the low-lying clouds on the horizon. "I don't like the looks of the weather," he said. "Those thunderclouds are coming up too fast to suit me. With the prairie as dry as it is, a lightning storm is all we need. Better tell your Miss Marston that out in this country a smart schoolmarm dismisses classes in weather like this. 'Too much danger of a prairie fire. 'Then you high-tail it for home early." Probably it was a mistake to give Miss Marston the message in front of the class. "Thank you, Rusty," she said lightly, "it's kind of your father to offer advice so often. Unfortunately, the school board specifed nothing about bad weather holidays, so I suppose we had better stay today." She smiled at the class. 512 "Very well. Let's begin with arithmetic." All of us glanced uneasily at one another. We weren't sure whom to obey, our parents who said to come home, or the teacher who said to stay. So we stayed. HAT waS one morning it was harder than usual to. Concentrate. The schoolroom temperature was stifling hot for October, and when we opened the windows there wasn't a breath of air stirring. The sun looked like a hot brass ball, before clouds began moving in to cover it with a hazy gray film. We began hearing the first rumbles of thunder in the distance, and when the lightning began to crackle as it came closer and closer, Pudge held up his hand. '"Ma'am," he said apologetically, "out here prairie storms come up mighty fast. Maybe we should uh that is." "Pudge, of course." Miss Marston stood up. "Students, anyone who wishes may be excused to go home immediately." Amid_ the Shouts and noises of departure, I guess no one else noticed that Miss Marston sat back down at her desk. I sat down, too. "Tl just do homework for awhile, if you don't mind," I said. "Dad'll be out on the range, and I hate to go home to our empty house." She didn't say anything, but her eyes looked sympathetic. We worked in silence for awhile. Presently she glanced out the window, then quickly began to gather up the papers on her desk. "I think we'd better start for home, Rusty," she said uneasily. "Look at that sky!" I looked, then ran outside. Everything seemed to be enveloped in a murky, dark haze. Smoke or dust? I couldn't tell. The air felt so charged with electricity it almost hummed. Suddenly, there was a sharp crack and a blinding flash. Then another, and another. That lightning was too close for comfort! I scooted back inside. "Let's lock up and get going!" I shouted. In the distance I could hear the frenzied snorts of our horses as they reared and strained against the hitching rail. Lightning was one thing they wanted no part of. As soon as we banged the door shut behind us, I could see why. Those bolts of lightning had started several small fires, all headed in our direction. "I can't believe it!" Miss Marston gasped. 'Then, after another look at the surrounding prairie, she straightened her shoulders resolutely. "Rusty, we just can't leave the schoolhouse to burn down. If only we had some wet gunny sacks, couldn't we use them to head off the fire before it gets any closer?" For Miss Marston, anything was worth a try. Luckily I found some empty sacks out in the woodshed. We soaked them in the stock watering trough then frantically beat at the flames. Back to the water, then to the fire. It was backbreaking work. The routine seemed endless — and hopeless, for as quickly as we smothered one flame, another sprang up in its place. Finally, discouraged, I looked at Miss Marston. She was a mess! Hair all straggly, face smudged with dirt and ashes, and her dress looked THE BRAINSTORM as soggy as one of the gunny sacks. Even like that, she was still better than Miss Flossie. Wearily, she stood up and brushed the hair out of her eyes. "Tell me, Rusty," she said, "what do you think your father would do now?" "Well," I answered, "probably dig a trench around the schoolhouse and start a backfire, I guess." That's what we were doing when they found us, Dad and the crew from our ranch. Miss Marston was grimly trying to dig a trench with the rusty shovel I had found, and I had a pretty fair backfire started when they came driving up with the wagon. Like clockwork, part of the men unloaded a plough, hitched it to the team and finished digging the trench. 'The rest of them soaked down the roof with the wet sacks, then watched the backfire really take hold. We just stood there, too tired to move, as Dad hurried up to us. For a minute he didn't say anything. Then he gave me a quick hug, and I saw him look at Miss Marston like he wished he could hug her, too. 'Then he reached out and took one of her hands, gently touching the blistered palm. "You two make a real team," he said huskily. "Any chance I could join in?" Was there! Miss Marston blushed and I whooped, "It's about time!" as I ran off to check on the horses. Dad and the teacher just stood there and looked at each other. P. S. I haven't had a single brainstorm since I got my new Mom. It was all strictly Dad's idea — he thinks!