[Vol50 | July 1963 | Page 482 | General Feature | From Near and Far]
[From Near and Far]

From Near and Far

As a young mother, the articles, lessons, and stories contained in the Magazine are most helpful to me. I especially enjoyed reading the story "Battalion" (by Hazel K. Todd, May 1963). I look forward to her stories. The poetry and editorials are indeed inspiring and have strengthened my testimony. I thank my mother for encouraging me to subscribe to the Magazine. I certainly wouldn't be without it.
—Vonzaa Tubbs
Kemmerer, Wyoming

As a new convert to the Church, let me tell you of the thrill I experienced when I received my first Relief Society Magazine last month. Suddenly, I really felt a part of this wonderful sisterhood. Having just now received the April Special Short Story issue, I had the same exhilarating feeling. The cover and the frontispiece and the wonderful poetry are very uplifting to the spirit.
—Mrs. Howard L. Myers
Pasadena, Texas

I sit here amidst stacks of unfinished work, but just can't get at it until I at least look through the new issue of my Relief Society Magazine. I love and appreciate every bit of it. I just read the short article "Too Busy" (by Annella Barnes, May 1963, page 351). With seven children, from ten months to twelve years, I surely know that what Sister Barnes was saying was all too true. But each article adds its spark of inspiration to my life to encourage me to try harder all the time to live as I should.
—Carma Carver
Grace, Idaho

I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for a wonderful Magazine. The missionaries here in Upsala have given me some copies, and I really enjoyed reading them. The short stories are especially delightful. I have found the articles on America's literature very useful and interesting, as I am a student of literary history here at the University of Upsala. So thanks once again for all the help and encouragement I get from the Magazine.
—Kjerstin M. Wallentin
Upsala, Sweden

I am very grateful for our very own Magazine. My husband's work keeps us moving from time to time, and it usually keeps me on my toes hoping my Magazine gets to me on time. The Magazine is an indispensable part of me. Reading any issue of the Magazine gives me an uplifting feeling, and it is how my problems sprout wings and fly away.
—Mollie Dunaway
Ewa, Oahu, Hawaii

A friend started giving me copies of the wonderful Relief Society Magazine and I liked the Magazine so well that I just couldn't wait, and so subscribed for my own. I have been trying to get my mother interested in our Church, and I think through the help of the Magazine and its inspirational contents, I may succeed. I enjoy everything in it, from the recipes to the poetry, but I get the most enjoyment from the stories on the early founders of the Church.
—Jackie Kurtz
Loton, California

I am grateful to have the Magazine come to our home, after traveling around from New Zealand and finally settling here for at least another two years. The Magazine is like having someone call with a spiritual message, always uplifting.
—Margaret Smith
St. Jean, Quebec
Canada

The Relief Society Magazine has been a great help to me in my search for truth. I just can't wait for it each month, for it always meets my particular need at the time. I enjoy particularly the theology lessons and the poetry.
—Mrs. Violet M. Tate
Pennsauken, New Jersey

482
