[Vol50 | July 1963 | Page 516 | General Feature | Birthday Congratulations FEATURES FOR | THE HOME]
[Birthday Congratulations FEATURES FOR THE HOME]

Emamiowicshiill WAN AL LAAN z, \\\) = WT mere ae ee wae ere ee 2 ee wee wre e2ee = = e AV esecencccscss2: aa -_— oa as por} INlustrations of the Use of the Basic Running Stitch in Decorative Embroidery SEWING EQUIPMENT—It is very important to have good sewing equipment, so give your daughter a sewing kit of her very own soon after school closes. This kit can be as simple as a small sturdy box containing a few articles, to an elaborate sewing basket, filled with dozens of sewing gadgets. Whichever you choose, the sewing kit should include a thimble her own size, a small pair of scissors, embroidery hoops, embroidery needles with the long eyes (then she can quickly learn to thread them), and a good assortment of colorful embroidery floss. Have her wind each color on an empty spool. This makes for a neater basket, and also makes it easier to select and obtain the proper color. Show her how to separate the strands, so that they will be ready for use. F you give your daughter a good basic embroidery education, teaching her the different stitches and possibilities first, she will have self-confidence to begin with, and will have a stronger desire to carry each project through. 


 ~< y UJ Cross-Stitch Used to Decorate Children's Clothing Here, then, are the basic steps and the way to teach them: 1. BASIC RUNNING STITCH This gives little fingers a limbering up. It is also a good stitch to teach accuracy in following lines. If the child is very young, it is good to begin learning on a square of checkered gingham. The gay colors will add enjoyment for her, and she can make some useful items with less time involved, thereby realizing accomplishment more quickly. Show her how to tie a neat knot in the end of her thread, and show her how to put the needle up through the cloth from underneath right on the line. Make running stitches between the squares. Several rows make a nice border. If you make running stitches crosswise, you will get small squares. You can make many kinds of borders by doing running stitches in different ways. Do some running stitches on the following practical articles: A luncheon cloth and napkins: Take a piece of fabric 36 inches square and make a border about two or three inches from the edges. Now fringe the edges. Make napkins to match. A clothespin doll: The dress is made of a straight piece of gingham just wide enough to let the "head" and "'feet'' of the clothespin show. Make a border of your choice along the bottom edge, and then gather the top edge, again using the running stitch. This also makes a skirt for her favorite little doll. A carryall bag: Make this by cutting two rectangular pieces of gingham making a border or an all-over design. Now use the running stitch to sew the pieces together on three sides, hemming the fourth side, and putting in a drawstring. 2. CROSS-STITCH This stitch delights the beginning seamstress, for it gives her the feeling of "really sewing." The cross-stitch should always have the stitches going the same way. Never make each cross-stitch individually. Work across, slanting all the stitches in one direction. Then come back across your work, slanting the stitches the other way. Gingham is again very good to learn on. If the checks are small, your crosses will 518 KR ade Ww! CIHR PPeerez sae et 7 be small. If the checks are large, the crosses will be larger, but remember to make a cross from corner to corner. Make a design by filling in certain squares and leaving others blank. Some practical items to make with cross-stitching: Pockets for your plain-colored dress. The border for your new skirt. A pair of pillow slips with a stamped cross-stitch design. 3. THE OUTLINE STITCH This is a little more difficult, but if you remember to teach your daughter to bring the needle out exactly on the line she wants to follow, she will have no trouble. It is done with a backwards stitch. Teach her to take as short a stitch as she is able, then her work will be neater. Learn first on straight lines, as it is on the turns that the beginner usually has trouble. On checked gingham, it is an easy trick to learn to make designs using the outline stitch. Now she is ready to tackle more difficult patterns. Dresser scarfs or again pillow slips are a good choice. She can find them printed with a combination of the crossstitch and the outline stitch. This enables her to use two new skills. 4. LAZY-DAISY STITCH This is still a little more difficult to do, but by practicing on simple items, she will be delighted at the fast results. The beginner nearly always pulls the thread too tight. This pulls the loop into a straight line, and the flower petal effect is lost. Caution her against this. With this new stitch, a colorful flower garden will appear on tablecloths or aprons. She can vary her flowers from four petals to six, or even larger. She can also make the leaves on an outline stitched stem. 519 GS MN = WM Yd I = a SS We Ll i Ideas for the use of the lazy-daisy stitch: Help your little seamstress make a triangle decorated with lazy-daisy blossoms and fringe the two edges, hemming the bias edge. This makes an attractive head scarf, and she will be proud of her own handiwork. A bib for baby: Just cut two bib shapes of cotton fabric, and one of flannel, plastic, or heavy fabric, for a padding. Now put them together with a bias binding. If you cut your own binding, you can make it wider, and it will be easier for youngsters to sew in place. I A laundry bag: 'This is made by taking two rectangles and rounding one edge slightly to fit a wooden hanger. Cut a slit down the center of the front about % of the way. Now bind this slit with bias. Stitch three straight sides together and bind the curved sides together with bias. Slip the hanger inside. 5. THE FRENCH KNOT This stitch is a real test as to the ability of even some well-established stitchers, but it is required on nearly every piece of fancywork we pick up, so is a "'must."