[Vol50 | July 1963 | Page 499 | Poem | Handcart | Ida Isaacson]
Handcart Ida Isaacson Tenderly she whispered, "Let us go on. There is nothing behind us but heartache Nothing but sad flowers — summer is gone. We have in the handcart all we can take. And all the things we left behind are ours To leave — the fire in the open grate, The sun's great glint on the temple towers. Love, the shadow falls, the hour is late. What fire glows in a new tomorrow Warm enough to blot out despair and pain? Dear love, from what sunset may we borrow Gold to sculpture our heartaches in the rain? Listen to our footfalls in the first snow, The turn of the wheels as onward we go." 499 Beneath, Betty Lou Martin Smith HE train sped on its way, closing in the miles between Teresa and her daughter Rosemary. It had been almost a year since they had been together, and Teresa was very excited to see her two little grandchildren once again. Teresa watched enchanted as the train took her farther and farther away from the most densely populated part of the State into the rural area. Although she had _ never really cared for country life, she found the scenery around her very beautiful. Spring had almost artived now, and it was in evidence at every turn. 'The rich, deep brown of the earth showed sprinklings of green, and the trees boasted tiny little buds making their debut into the world. This is the time to get a fresh start on things, Teresa thought, more so than at any other time. 500 y re PN eR' I Bi rv, ms ' J ' * '. Cir a =. A 4 " L i. ' ', " ' a B® é Spring makes me feel so clean and good all over. When Rosemary had married ten years ago, Teresa had found it difficult to see why she would want to move away from her social life in the city to the country. She still couldn't understand her daughter's happiness in such a place. However, Teresa's husband had stated, "Happiness isn't being in a certain place; it comes from within one's own self. If Rosemary is willing, she can be happy any place." Teresa adjusted the collar on her coat. She was smartly dressed in a black and white checked coat. Her accessories of black complemented her as well as the coat. Her lovely, white-gray hair went well with black, and her soft, almost unlined face and blue eyes finished the picture of a very fashionably dressed lady. The conductor called out loudly, — "Cedar View," and Teresa's heart skipped a beat. She had arrived! In happy anticipation, she made her way toward the front of the car. 'The train was on time, Rosemary should be waiting. "There's Grandma! There's Grandma!" Rosemary's eight-yearold son Donnie called out happily as he ran to meet 'Teresa. "T see her, too." Cindy jumped up and down. The six-year-old also made her way toward her grandmother. "Mother, it is so good to see you." Rosemary put her arms around her mother. "Carl said to tell you that he wished he could come to meet you, too, but they are so busy in the fields that they don't stop for anything." "What, work on Saturday? In the city most people have Saturday off." 'Teresa wished she hadn't spoken so abruptly, but it was too late. She could detect a slight tenseness about Rosemary. "The car is this way, Mother." Rosemary led the way. NCE inside the car 'Teresa attempted to make conversation. "Yon're looking very well, dear. IT think this country air agrees with you." "Despite all my hard work, Mother," Rosemary laughed, "I have never felt better." Although Rosemary had her father's light, blonde coloring, she resembled her mother strongly. The car turned off the main highway and down a graveled lane for about five miles.