Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith....Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Sarah McLelland Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Miss Edna May Davis Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah 

A LAMENT. (For a beautiful tree that washand.) ruthlessly spoiled by an unknown IN BEHALF OF MARY W. CLARK Lula Greene Richards. My beautiful, beautiful tree! God made thee so graceful and grand. How human hands could have marred this tree I never shall understand. When I left you this morning, all lovely, I called you "King of the lawn," "My Sweetheart" — this evening I find you Torn, bleeding, your loveliness gone. Could envy excite human feelings To mangle and injure like this? Though your beauty is spoiled, I still love you. Your poor, bleeding branches I kiss. Every branch, leaf and bud I held precious; My prayers have ascended on high, While your dear trunk my arms have encircled, None present but God, you and I. Our prayers. Father heard and gave comfort, And blest us on every hand, While Eve loved you and watched you still growing So stately, majestic and grand. In heaven may Father please give me One like you, my beautiful tree, And let no one hurt or deface it. But keep it and save it for me. Tonight I am heartsick and lonely; God made us, and he only knew. My beautiful tree, of our kinship, How you loved me and how I loved you. THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. V. JUNE, 1918. No. 6 General Conference of the Relief Society. By Amy Brown Lyman. The Annual Conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City on Wednesday and Thursday, April 3 and 4, 1918. On Wednesday three sessions were held in the Bishop's Building. At 10 o'clock 'a. m. and 2 o'clock p. m. meetings were held for stake officers and stake board members. At 7 p. m. a public meet Department.ing was held under the direction of the Home Economics On Thursday, April 4, two general sessions of Conference were held in the Assembly Hall at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. Thursday evening, April 4, a reception was held for all Relief Society delegates. The attendance at the conference was unusually large. At the opening officers' meeting there were present 320 representatives, and at the afternoon session there were 325. At the general session on Thursday morning in the Assembly Hall, there were 1360 in attendance and on the afternoon of the sam^ day, the number reached 1814. Roll call at the officers' meeting showed the following official representation: General Board members, 20; stakes represented, 63—52 by stake presidents and 11 by other reps; resentativethe other stake officers besides these were 30 counselors, 13 secretaries and 9 treasurers. Twelve stakes were not represented. Three missions were represented, two by presidents and one by a member. The missions represented were the Northern States, the Western States, and the California missions. One of the. important features of the conference was the splendid music furnished by the Relief Society choir, of 125 members, under the direction of the General Chorister, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward. In addition to furnishing music for all of the regular sessions of the conference, the choir furnished special numbers at the Home Economics meeting and gave an entire program at the reception. 308 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. By special invitation of Prof. A. C. Lund, Director of the Tabernacle Choir, the Relief Society Choir, assisted with the oratorio, "Elijah," singing-. from the east gallery the chorus, "Lift Thine Eyes," to the accompaniment of the echo organ. The artistic rendition of the solo, "Lead, Kindly Light," by Prof. A. C. Lund, with the Relief Society Choir singing the chorus, at the Assembly Hall, and also the sextette fromi "Lucia," rendered at the Relief Society reception by the choir, were real gems and were especially appreciated. The ushers for the conference, furnished by the Pioneer stake, were on hand early and late at all the sessions, and directed the large crowds so ably that there was no delay nor the slightest confusion. On Wednesday noon, luncheon was served to the 320 stake officers who were in attendance at the officers' meeting. GENERAL OFFICERS' MEETINGS. Morning Session. President Emmeline B. Wells presided at the meetings of the conference and gave the opening address. She referred very feelingly to the sad condition existing in the world today on account of the great war. She felt that the present era is probably a preparation for the Millennium, and she urged that the Relief Society women be prayerful and live so that they may understand the things of God. Mrs. Wells prayed especially for the boys in the trenches, that they might be filled with hope, courage and peace. The annual financial and statistical report of the General Society was read by the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. The report was particularly interesting in view of the fact that it embraces, in addition to the regular features, a report of the conservation and war work accomplished by the women of the Relief Society during the last year. Some of the interesting items were emphasized. Following is the report: Balance on hand January 1, 1917: Charity fund $14,803.03>^ General fund 49,910.57 Wheat fund 67,166.89 $131,880.49>^ Receipts: Donations: Charity fund 55.903.41 General fund 54,856.45>4 Wheat fund 13,400.71 124,160.57>^ Other receipts 72,049.93 ' Total $328,091.00 GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 309 Paid for charitable purposes $ 53,883.37 Paid for general purposes 123,078.29 Balance on hand December 31, 1917 Charity fund $18,095.95 General fund 54,871.04 Wheat fund 78,162.35 151,129.34 Total 1$328,091.00 Resources and Liabilities. Resources: Balance on hand Dec. 31, 1917, all funds$151, 129.34 Value of wheat on hand 308,462.21 Value real estate, buildings and furniture 238,931.61 Value of invested funds 24,767.39 Other resources 16,955.75 Total $740,246.30 Liabilities Indebtedness $ 2,557.24 Balance net resources 737,689.06 Total $740,246.30 Wheat Account Receipts: Wheat on hand Jan. 1, 1917 11.089,208 lbs. Wheat donated during 1917 389,147 " Wheat purchased during 1917. . . . 620,496 " Other wheat receipts 232.233 " Total 12,331,084 lbs. Or 205,518Vi.,bu. Disbursements: Wheat on deposit with P. B. O.. . . 5,028,745 lbs. Wheat in local Relief S. granaries 5,305,307 " Wheat in other granaries 1,040,878 " Other wheat deposits 220,638 " Wheat sold 631,389 " Shrinkage, waste and loss 104,127 " (Actual Wheat on Hand) . . . . (11,595,568 " ) or (193,259^ Vg.bu.) Total 12,331,084 lbs. Or 205,518Vi5bu. 310 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Statistics. Membership Jan. 1, 1917: Officers 6,430 Teachers 13,476 Members 23,922 43,828 Admitted to membership 6,770 Total 50,598 Removed or resigned 4,699 Died 560 Membership Dec. 31, 1917: Officers 6,492 Teachers 13,858 Members 24,989 (Present Membership) (45,339) Total 50,598 General officers and Board members 23 Stake officers and Board members 1,032 Number of meetings held 36,028 Average attendance at meetings 14,642 Number of Relief Society organizations 1,085 Number of books in Relief Society libraries 5,597 Number of Relief Society Magazine subscriptions 12,190 Activities Penny Temple fund, 1916-1917 $13,588.90 Days spent with the sick 36,581 Special visits to sick 78,066 Families helped 5,868 Bodies prepared for burial 2,311 Number of visits by stake officers 5,485 Number of days spent in Temple work 23,863 Assistance to missionaries or their families $ 2,977.50 Fund raised from special work $17,311.02 GENERAL COXFEREXCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 311 Conservation and U^ar Work. Wheat raised by Ward Relief Societies 4,691 bu. Potatoes raised by Ward Relief Societies 88,347 bu. Fruit and jelly canned by \\^ard Relief Societies. . . . 42,650qts. Dried fruit conserved by Ward Relief Societies 12,375 lbs. Dried vegetables conserved by ^^'ard Relief Societies 21,097 lbs. Fruit and jellies canned by individual members of Driedthevegetables Relief Society for 'family conserved use by individual • members 3,264,804 qts. of the Relief Society for family use 199,910 lbs. Other items such as remodeling clothing, making quilts, etc. — number of articles 44.643 Paid for Liberty Bonds $24,685.61 Number of Red Cross memberships taken by Relief Society members 14,078 Number of articles made for Red Cross by Relief Society members 49,569 Attention was called to the small indebtedness of the Relief Society, and also to the increase in membership. During the last year, the membership increased 1,445. While there is a great increase in many instances, as shown by the report, there is a decrease in the number of special visits to the sick and the number of visits by stake officers to the w^ards. Mrs. Lyman congratulated the stakes for the splendid compilation of reports made by the stake and ward secretaries, stating that there was a great improvement over the work of the previous year. Reports from the following stakes were listed as correctly compiled: Alberta, Bear River, Blackfoot, Emery, Granite. North Sanpete. North Weber, Oneida, Pioneer, Raft River, Salt Lake. San Juan, Sevier. Shelley, South Sanpete. Woodruff, Young. Those containing slight errors were: Boise, Ensign, Snowflake, Bannock, Beaver, Cottonwood, Hyrum, Juab, Millard, San Luis, South Davis, Teton, Union, Alpine, Box Elder, Ogden, St. Joseph, Cassia, Idaho, Jordan, Taylor, Tintic. Since the last October conference, on December 23, 1917, one new stake has been organized — the Montpelier stake, with Mrs. Agnes Pearce, president. Reorganizations have taken place in the following stakes: St. Joseph, reorganized January, 1918, with Mrs. Josephine C. Kimball, president, to fill the vacancy made by the resignation of Mrs. Sarah B. Moody; North Weber, reorganized January, 1918, with Mrs. Georgina G. Marriott, president, to fill the vacancy made by the resignation of Lucy A. Steers; Utah stake, reorganized February 1, 1918, with Mrs. Inez Knight Allen, president, to fill the vacancy caused by 312 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. the resignation of Mrs. Alartha A. F. Keeler; ; Eastern States misson, reorganized October, 1917, with Miss EHzabeth Thomas, president, to fill the vacancy made by the resignation of Miss Margaret Edward. The following additional items were reported: In the potato competition for prizes offered by the First Presidency, the Relief Society of the Roosevelt ward, Duchesne stake, received the second award of $500 for the largest yield of potatoes on one acre of ground, the production being 39,173 pounds. The president of this Society is Mrs. Alice M. Lambert. The Home Economics Department of Utah stake recently published a cook book with the double purpose of furnishing suitable war time recipes and of raising funds for the Provo chapter of the Red Cross. The book was very creditable as well as practical and a large sum was realized from the sale of the book. The General Board members visited all of the seventy-four stakes during last year, and in addition visited a large number of the branches in the Northwestern States mission and California mission. Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman were delegates from the Relief Society to the National Conference of Social Work held in Pittsburg in June, 1917. Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman attended the executive conference of the Mountain division of the American Red Cross in Denver, in October, 1917. At the Red Cross Institute for Home Service, held in Denver from November 4 to December 16, the Relief Society was re'presented by the following: Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Salt Lake City; Mrs. J. W. Hendricksen, Logan; Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, Provo, and Miss Cora Kasius, Ogden. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams and Emily S. Richards were delegates from the Relief Society to the National Council of Women held in Washington, December, 1917. Mrs. Mary Smith Ellsworth and Mrs. Heber Sears of Chicago, represented the Relief Society at the Congress of National Service held in Chicago, February, 1918. The announcement of the adoption of a Relief Society pin or emblem was made. The pin consists of the Relief Society monogram on a field of white, surrounded by golden sheaves. President Wells announced, with deep regret, that Priscilla P. Jennings, one of the Board members, had passed away since last conference. She also announced that Mrs. Donetta Smith Kessler had been chosen to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Mrs. Jennings. Mrs. Kessler was introduced to the assemblage by President Emmeline B. Wells. She stated that she appreciated very much GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 313 the honor that had been conferred upon her, and she pledged herself to faithful service in the cause. She expressed her great interest in all phases of Relief Society work. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams, who is chairman of the Woman's Committee of the State Council of Defense, explained the relation of the Council of Defense work to the Relief Society and other women's organizations. She impressed upon her hearers that the Council has no intention whatever' of encroaching upon the identity or disrupting the work of any society or Church association. She stated that the aim of the Council is "to secure co-operation of women in all efforts concerned' with defense work; to correlate the work of public and semi-public organizations, that co-operation and harmiony might rule, rather than competition, duplication of effort and misdirected energy. All heads of organizations were urged to preserve the various departments of work under their supervision to the end that, when normal conditions are resumed, the organizations will be intact. It is through societies already organized that the Council of Defense hope to accomplish its more effective work. All activities will be correlated with the National Defense throughout its various state and county divisions. Organizations are requested to keep a record of all war activities, which record will prove of value to the Council of Defense in making its report of the woman's work of the state to the government. Mrs. Williams spoke of the praise already accorded Utah women for their splendid organization and work, and asked that the Woman's Committee of the Council of Defense be given all support possible by Relief Society women. Mrs. Susa Young Gates announced the publication by the General Board of Relief Society of a surname book. She stated that the book will be unique in every w^ay. Adapted entirely to the use of the Relief Society genealogical students, it will possess wide interest for every person in the Church. The chapter heads are as follows: Ancient Racial History, Shem's Disobedient Races. Ham's Tribes, Japheth's Tribes, Early European Race History, Where the Races Settled in Europe, Races in Great Britain. Personal Names. Evolution of Surnames, Patronymics. Sire Names, Scotch and Irish Surnames, Battle Abbey Roll, Domesday. Liber Vitae, Anglo-Saxon Names, Place Names, Official Surnames, Trade Names, Nick Names, Prefixes and Suffixes. French Surnames, German Surnames, Danish Surnames, South Sea Surnames. Chinese Surnames and American Surnames. The maps, illustrations and tables are: Maps. Canaan. England, Europe, Roman Dominions. British Isles, Ancient World, Europe. Ancient Egypt, The Ancient East, Assyrian Empire, the 314 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. three Scandinavian countries, and one or two others. IllustrationsTemple: in Jerusalem, Chinese Temple, Domesday Book, etc. Tables: Pedigrees of David, Descendants of Noah, Houses of Lancaster and York, Henry VH, House of Hanover, French Kings, Bonaparte Family, Houses of Stuart and Hanover, Antediluvian Patriarchs, Welsh Pedigrees,- Pedigree of Saul, Anglo-Saxon Kings, Norwegian, Danish and Swedish Ancient Royal Pedigrees. In addition to all this there will be an index of perhaps 300 pages, consisting of nearly every surname in the Church, taken from the census lists in the Presiding Bishop's Ofifice; and to practically every surname will be attached the definition and origin thereof. The edition is very small. It will be impossible to allow each ward to purchase a number of books. However, there will be a few left over from the expected number of one to a ward. Those who desire to purchase the book must send in orders at once (money may come later), as we already have many orders in the office now and when the supply is exhausted no more will be printed. Mrs. Gates stated that the book would occupy double the amount of pages at first expected, because of the fact that many illustrations, maps and the mammoth index have been added, and it has been found impossible to publish the book and sell it at $2 a volume. The assembled general and stake officers voted to raise the price of the book to $3 per volume. A rate of $2.75 per volume will be allowed where books are purchased in lots of one dozen or more. Address letters and orders to the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, busines manager of The Relief Society Magazine, thanked the women very cordially for their hearty support the war interfered of The Relief with Society' Magazine, prompt mail deliveryand. asked patience if Afternoon Session. Counselor Julina L. Smith outlined the duties of Relief Society women as they were announced years ago by the Prophet Joseph Smith. She spoke also of the added duties since the outbreak of the war, and urged the women to remember three things — their own strength, the cause they are working for, and the boys in the national service. Having recently visited Camp Kearny, Mrs. Smith brought a word of cheer and comfort to the mothers who have sons in that camp. She stated that the soldiers were, in many instances, better cared for than at home. She felt that not all would go into the battlefield to die, but that those who GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 315 would be called by death, either at the war front or at home, were soldiers needed on the other side. Mrs. Amy B. Lyman outlined the duties of officers in the Relief Society organizations. She cited four big ideals which had been evolved by the nation since the outbreak of the wardevotion to cause, unity, obedience to authority, and willingness to train for service. On these four things, she said, the Latter-day Saints Church had been greatly criticized in the past; for these four things since the outbreak of the war the Church had received its highest compliments. These ideals, she said, had been the cause of the great success of the Relief Society. Mrs. Lyman stated that all officers in the Relief Society should first of all be women of honor and integrity, women with abiding faith and with a testimony of the gospel. She urged each woman to fill, to the best of her ability, the office, to which she is appointed, making a specialty of the particular work to which she is called. In a great many instances people have the wrong attitude toward their work. For example: It is often the case that instead of making the most of the positions to which they are called, women neglect their own work and encroach upon the work and duties of other officers. It is the duty of a president to preside and to look after the general work of the Society. Her particular effort should be placed upon the work as a whole, and not on the detailed portion thereof. A president who spends all her time with the small details loses sight of the broadness of her own work. She should, therefore, rise above the details frequently and get a broad view of the situation. No president can afford to do the work of the secretary. As soon as she does this, she neglects her own important work and loses her great opportunity to forward the general work of the society. Any president who prefers to do the secretary's work rather than her own work, should resign as president and take up the work of the secretary. Presidents should compare their work frequently with the work of other stakes and wards, and see that it is up to the standard. The counselors are aides to the 'president and should be consulted freely by the president regarding all matters connected with th stake or ward organization. There is wisdom in counsel. Counselors should not be ignored. They should help with the work and should help to bear the responsibility connected with the.work. Secretaries should be chosen with regard to their particular fitness for the work they are to do, just as organists are chosen for their particular work. The work of the Relief Society has become so complicated, and the work of the secretary so specialized that unless she has had some previous training for this work, it is very hard for her to cope with the situation. 316 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The work of the treasurer is also rather technical, and women should be chosen for this position, if possible, who have had some business training. Teachers should appreciate the great importance of their special field of work, being prompt with their visits and in no way neglecting them. They should aim constantly to live up to the ideals set for them and to do the work in the best possible manner. They should be wise and discreet in their dealings with families and should make it a point to carry hope and good cheer into all the homes which they visit. The work of the class teachers is, in a sense, specialized work. The woman who accepts the position of class leader should spare no pains to present lessons in an intelligent and edifying manner. This will require a great deal of study and preparation on her part. A class leader who is well prepared and enthusiastic over her work is a real power in the society and a great aid to the officers in maintaining a high grade of interest, and in increasing the attendance at Relief Society meetings. A class leader may judge of the effectiveness of her work b}' the results she obtains. Stake and ward prcsick^nts should see that their organizations are complete. When vacancies occur they should be filled at once. Mrs. Lyman read the following extract from a Circular of Instructions on Relief Society work: "A stake president, who is incapacitated for any reason, or who intends leaving her home for any extended period, should consult with the presiding priesthood as to her resignation. It is unwise for any organization to be left without an active head." Meetings for stake officers should be held at least once a month. A meeting for stake and ward officers should be held at least once a month. The speaker requested that all circular letters sent out by the General Board be preserved carefully for future reference. Mrs. Martha A. F. Keeler spoke a few moments on "The Ideal Relief Society," emphasizing the importance of having the meetings conducted with tire spirit of prayer, humility and love. The time should be spent with important and eternal things, and all temporary, trivial things should be ignored. IMeetings should be opened and closed promptly according to scheduled time and those responsible for the program should see that ever}1;hing is in readiness so that no time is wasted. Mrs. Inez Knight Allen spoke briefly of the Hoover Cook Booh recently published by the Relief Society women of the Utah stake, stating that those stakes who desire to handle the book in large numbers might have special concessions by applying to the Utah Stake Relief Society. GENERAL COXFEREXCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 317 Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley moved a vote of thanks to the Bailey Floral Company for the handsome easter flowering plant presented to the General Board. The motion was seconded by Mrs. Crismon and carried. Evening Session. Dr. Melvin C. Merrill, of the Utah Agricultural College, spoke on "Home Gardening." He emphasized the need of careful planning for the garden, with consideration of the amount of foodstuffs needed by each member of the family. He decried the idea of planting as many seeds as happened to be obtained at a seed store, but declared that every inch of ground should be used to the greatest advantage. Intensive gardening, Dr. Merrill insisted, must" be the great slogan of the summer's activity. If there were weeds it was a sure proof that the garden was too large for its crop. The soil should be carefully prepared and fertilized. Agreat variety of vegetables should be planted and early summer crops should be speedily replaced with those to be harvested inthe fall. Prof. Byron Alder, of the U. A. C, emphasized ths need of raising poultry as one of the big foodstuffs of the nation. With the shipping of all possible meats to the war zon*, Prof. Alder said the poultry yard must be made to furnish a big part of the nation's protein foods. It takes two years, he asserted, to raise a beef for the market, one year for pork, one year for mutton, but eggs and poultry can be kept almost constantly on the market from the time the hens begin laying. Every family in the country, he urged, should raise enough eggs to last it a year, the spring eggs to be put away in' liquid glass for the winter. He told of the care needed by the young chicks in order to insure the greatest possible production of eggs, urging especially plenty of water and sufficient meat, fish and bone scraps. Prof. Alder also urged the raising of a large variety of chickens. Miss Joan Moen, of the U. A. C, gave a demonstration in the remodeling and renovating of old clothing, emphasizing the possibilities ofold silk hosiery, woolen underwear, and other articles usually thrown away. The morning session of our Relief Society conference in the Assembly Hall found a crowded congregation ready for the excellent program which had been prepared by the Home Science department, under the direction of Mrs. Janette A. Hyde. After the opening exercises, Miss Alice Ravenhill, professor of home economics at the U. A. C, herself one of the best known authors in the United States on ChildWelfare, took up this subject and delivered a most excellent address. The facts and truths which she treated are very familiar to the women of the Relief Society, 318 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. but a new angle was given through the presentation of modern statistics; and especially attractive was the cultured form and substance of the address. The speaker referred to the decision of the United States to make this coming year a child-welfare period, and manifested the need of more intelligent apprehension concerning the age-old problems of child-protection from diseases and death. Compared ignorance concerning the causes and prevention of infant mortality to a poison in the human system which necessitates an antidote, and recited the startling figures of infant mortality which was like a public poison withering the roots of national life. "Some races have more resistance to certain diseases than others," said the speaker. "The Caucasians are more susceptible to tuberculosis, whooping cough, measles, scarlet fever and other ailments. The yellow race has a peculiar resistance to certain organic diseases which enables it to live under conditions which would be fatal to the white race Each one of us inherits certain tendencies. It is our duty to find out the direction in which each child is least resistant, to strengthen the weak and consolidate its strong points. Liberty does not carry with it the right to disregard the rights of others. The greater the democracy the stricter the discipline of its members that the rights of others be regarded— the more responsible their duty to maintain a high standard of health, strict sanitary conditions, not alone for their own welfare, but that of their neighbors." She stated that 300,000 children died annually in this country before birth and declared that these conditions could be improved by a complete birth registration insuring the lightening of considerable ignorance and the aiding of the poverty stricken. Three thousand more children, she said, died before twelve months of age. The United States spends $350,000,000 on its insane population in one year, despite the two preventable causes of insanity — unfit parentage and the poisoning of the mother's system before the birth of the child. She told of the death rate in the various countries of the world of infants under twelve months old, for every 1.000 of child population, as follows: Belgium, 167; Italy, 153; Germany, before the war, 147; France, 127; England, including the city of London, 90; Russia, 248; Canada, 248; New Zealand, 50; and the United States, based on a very incomplete estimate, 120. Twenty-five per cent of the babies of this nation were found to have died of conditional debility; 9 per cent of bronchitis or pneum.onia; one-ninth of digestive disorders; 50,000 annually of tuberculosis; 12 out of every 100 of whooping cough; from 10,000 to 20,000 annually of measles. For every death there was also counted six cases of illness which survived, resulting in blindness, deafness, dullness, GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 319 delicate lungs, crooked spines, diseased joints, ruined digestions, etc. The speaker urged the mothers to study the conditions which will prevent disease and to enlist themselves in the war against child sacrifice. In closing she added some startling statistics as follows: Some 106,392 men, or 70 per cent of the applicants for the navy, had been found physically unfit; 500,000 of the military enlistments, or one-third, had been found through preventable diseases, unfit for service, all between the ages of 21 and 31. Eight million more men above 31 had been found physically disqualified, meaning that 13,000,000 men who should be in the very prime of life were physically useless to their country in its hour of need. The demonstration in food values and war-time substitutes given by Miss Jean Cox, of the U. A. C, was extremely interesting and attractive. The speaker had upon the stand sample portions of various foods, and thus illustrated all of her valuable and excellent points. She showed the contrasting caloric values and certainly provided many new suggestions for those present to work upon in the present food crisis. Afternoon Session. The conference in the afternoon was addressed by President Emmeline B. Wells. Counselors Clarissa Smith Williams, and Julina L. Smith, and Mrs. Mary Smith Ellsworth, president of the Relief Societies of the Northern States mission. Counselor Williams was the first speaker, and she delivered an earnest exhortation to the sisters, saying, in part: "We conserve in food and we conserve our clothing, and we endeavor to do all those things which are necessary for us to do in order that the great work which is being carried on today may be carried on to a successful finish. I want to say to you, dear mothers, conserve yourselves. If there is any danger today, it will be in the over-anxiety of the mothers and women past middle age who are past the child-bearing age, but who are the mothers of growing children. If there would be a danger to them, it would be that they should endeavor to overdo the conservation theory. I would feel to impress on you to eat plenty of food, 'plenty of calories,' as Miss Cox said this morning — not overeat, but find, if possible, food that agrees with you, and then 'eat it slowly and chew well.' That is an old saw, but it is verily true. I know by experience that it does not take as much food for the nourishment of an adult person if it is thoroughly masticated. So take time to eat, take time to rest a little, and to reflect; and above all things, take time to pray that you may have the spirit of our heavenly Father and his beloved Son, to uphold you and give 320 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. you strength to carry the burdens which are yours during these trying times. "I am of the opinion that the women of the Latter-day Saints, with their usual responsibihty in taking up new measures, are doing all in their power to help to carry on this great struggle in which we find ourselves. But sisters, have you ever paused to think that this war will not be won with bullets — it will be by the united efifort of the whole people of the world who are working for peace and the right kind of peace, that the people may enjoy all the rights which the Lord designated that they should enjoy here in the world, and that it will take faith and prayer and work more than bullets to win this great struggle. "I presume that many of you are surprised and delighted with the opinion of many noted men that the love of the Lord and the belief in the divinity of the Lord, and the thought that religion adds to the happiness of the human family is being widely disseminated, not only among men who have been of a non-religious nature, but many young men who thought they had no religion. I do not mean only our own young men, but many of the young men of the world are being led to believe that there is a God, that there is a future life beyond this life, and it is being borne in on them that it is proper that they should live in such a way that they should be ready to enter the presence of the Lord. Some beautiful testimonies come to us from our own young men. You know, you mothers, how our boys are often quite indifferent. They know that they are Latter-day Saints, they have always been Latter-day Saints, they have been taught to do this and that and the other, but they have not taken it very seriously. Many of them now feel that they are on as sacred a mission as they would be had they been set apart to go to preach the gospel; and by their conduct, and their manners and the words quietly spoken, they are able to be true missionaries to those with whom they are associated. I think one of the best things that has come to me has been the testimony of my own young son. He had the measles in the training camp, and during the time that he was in quarantine he had a great deal of time to reflect and read. While he was in a ward, he was yet in a quiet corner, and he wrote to tell me that he had had a beautiful testimony of the gospel. He had always thought the gospel was true, and it meant the most to him of anything, but he had never had a testimony of the gospel until those quiet hours that he spent in reflection and in prayer while he was on his sick-bed. Now that, sisters, means more to me and more to you who have sons who can bear this same testimony, than millions of dollars of riches. The very thought that our children are impressed with the divinity of the gospel, that they have the inspiration to tell them that the gospel is true, that GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 321 they can say, 'O, I never realized what an uphft prayer could their to give me untilFather heavenly now!' withNow, whenbelief a firm our that dear heones will can approach answer their prayers, that he is there, ready, just as their earthly parent would be, with accentuated love for them, oh, what a spirit of blessing it brings! "I pray, my dear sisters, that we may have the Spirit to uphold us, to give us faith, that we may bless those about us with faith and w^ith love and with courage, that we may be upheld by the knowledge that our Father in heaven is able to assist us, and that at all times we may be found doing his will and keeping his commandments." Counselor Julina L. Smith continued in the same theme, adding her own choice and sound advice as follows: "While Prof. Ravenhill about the boys and the men in was speaking the world, I felttoto usthank this our morning heavenly Father that our boys, the Latter-day Saints boys that have been called away, have not been found diseased and in a condition that they would have to be sent home because they are not fit for soldiers or for anything else. Once in a while w^e find a boy or two amongst us who have heart trouble, or some physical disability, but we can cheer up and feel thankful that our boys who have been reared Latter-day Saints are examples to the world; and when we hear of such things as we heard this morning of men in the outside world, we are grateful that our boys are not in that condition. "Now, most of the army boys smoke, and I said to a doctor down in San Diego, 'Why do they smoke?' In reply he stated that the boys had to walk so far every morning and drill so many hours, and that those who smoked and used tobacco could not walk so far as those that did not; and Lasked him, 'Why do they allovv them to smoke?' He said, 'That is up to them; they are permitted, of course, to use their own judgment in that.' He admitted that those who were perfectly pure and clean and kept the 'Word of Wisdom,' could walk farther and do better than the others. Now, you mothers who have reared your boys to be Latter-day Saints, and have taught them not to use tobacco and liquor, you have some comfort, even if your sons have been called to war. "We have been looking forward to just such times as we have now. You, like myself, knew that when the Lord said that just such things would come as we are having now, that they would come sometime. I did not think it would be in my dav. I thought before the end came we w^ould have wars and pestilence and earthquakes and cyclones and all those things which the Lord said would come unless we were faithful and true and repented and lived right — and we have not lived right, there are manv of our Z22 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. own young folks who are beingled away and have not been living as well as they used to live; but I think those who have had good teachings will do well. "I have heard of many of our boys who are away, exercising their good influence with other young men, that have not had the same training that the Latter-day Saints have had, and these others are listening to our Latter-day Saints boys and watching and imitating them. "In regard to our saving — we can do a great deal of saving. in taking care of food. I have seen people who would waste perhaps nearly half that they cooked, put on the table what little they wanted, and scrape the rest out. We can save by cooking only what we need, and if there is a little left over, warm it up and fix it over for another meal. But we do not have to eat food that is not palatable. We can cook it properly and have it palatable and good and have some left, and we can save in that way. "In regard to gardening — I have done lots of gardening myself, and since I have been where I am now, without a little garden spot, I have looked out on the lawn many a day and thought if I had a little corner of that lawn where I could plant a little lettuce and a few onions and radishes, and go out and pick them in the morning, like I used to do, how glad I would be. It would not hurt anybody to take care of a little piece of garden like that. I do not believe in saying to our old ladies and to the sisters who have worked all their lives: 'It is your duty to go out and plow and hoe and water and raise grain and vegetables' — there are many young people who can put in some of their time that way; and it will not hurt them, it will do them good — just as much good will come to them from raising vegetables as raising flowers. And the older ladies can put in their time sewing and taking care of chickens. Those who were at our meeting last night heard the lecture on raising chickens. I was very much interested in that. An old lady can tend to the chickens and enjoy it, when she could not go out and hoe in the garden. There are things that we can all do that will help, and it is all war work. The old ladies that can sit and knit stockings and scarfs and wash rags and quilt pieces — they are doing their part and helping the soldiers. And I want to tell you that we are on the Lord's side. Our boys are working for the Lord, and we are going to win, for the Lord always wins. We may have a hard struggle, but we are going to win, we know that. As long as we are on the Lord's side we are all right. "Our Relief Society women have always been ready for whatever call the president of the Relief Society makes upon them, no matter what it is for. They respond directly, they are right up GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 323 and in arms. When the President of the Church says we want this, that or the other, they are ready. It is like touching an electric button and turning on the light. It takes only a little while to get out a word to all of our sisters, then they are on hand to do what they are asked to do. It is not because they are afraid and have to take counsel: it is because they are loyal and love to work in unison. When our government calls on us and says we want you to save and take care of the food, we are on hand to do it. When the government says, we want your boys, the best and healthiest that you have, to go to war. to go and help to save their country — that is the biggest and the hardest thing that we could be called upon for; but how do our sisters and our brothers respond? They say, 'Go, my son, you go and do your part. If you lose your life, you will lose it in a good cause, and if your life is spared to you, return home, knowing that you have done your duty, and you will be prepared to go on and help the Lord in his work.' ""I pray that the Lord will bless each and every one of us and help us to do his will and help us that we may not forget to pray, to pray for all who have gone to war, that all the honest in heart and all who trust in the Lord may be blessed, which is my prayer in theMrs. nameEllsworth of Jesus.said,Amen." in part: 'T feel this afternoon as I listened to that beautiful trio, and heard those sisters sing, how blessed are they who trust in the Lord! and I looked over this splendid audience, and those words filled my heart: 'How blessed are they who trust in the Lord!' The Lord has been good to the Latter-day Saints; he has kept his promise to us that to us should be revealed his mind and will, and that we should be magnified in the eyes of the world, and that the eyes and the hearts of the nations of the earth should be turned to Zion. Since the first of last December I have had the privilege of visiting 25 groups of women located throughout the six states of the Northern States mission, and in making my trips to and fro to those 25 groups of women, I have come in contact with many, many people, and have had the privilege given to me to talk to them about the prophecies concerning the war, and I come to tell you that the spirit of unrest, a feeling of fear, is in the hearts of the people of the world. Our missionaries testify that as they go from door to door, tracting. many are glad to listen to their word; they are turning their hearts to the things of the Lord. "Our missionaries number about 168, yet are a band of children compared to the educated and experienced men and women among whom they labor, but the Lord is good to us— our baptisms this year have been greater in number than in any other year 324 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. of our mission. We baptized in the month of July more than were baptized in the whole of the first year that President Ellsworth presided in the Northern States. "And I was glad to hear yesterday in our meeting and today the cry from the stand, 'Sisters, conserve your strength.' I think sometimes we get too anxious, too over-zealous, and do more than is required of us, and still I do not want to feel to criticize, but do my utmost in everything that I am called to do. "Do you not know that we are blessed above all people in all time? To us has been made known the prophecies of the Bible, the prophecies of the Book of Mormon, which bring us to a fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ. We have been told that dire calamities will come: war, earthquake, pestilence, famine — we have been taught it always, not only from the prophets in the Bible and the Book of Mormon, but our Father in heaven has blessed us with our latter-day prophet, to whom he has revealed himself so that the smallest child can understand the things that are to come, the test that is to be made of his children. He has said to us, T will have a tried people; you must love me, you must keep my commandments; you must know the gospel and you must know that you know it.' I believe the time is right at our doors when the world is going to.be shaken up, when the people everywhere are going to turn to the Lord — for as we go about in our mission, we find hundreds and thousands of beautiful, honesthearted people. But they have not been given the light that we have received. " 'Blessed are those who trust in the Lord.' While I know some of our boys will have to fall, while I believe sincerely that many of them will give their lives in this great struggle for liberty, Ibelieve firmly that to them on the other side will be given the great privilege of teaching the gospel to the hundreds and thousands who will be slain. "The day has come when the spirit of Elijah is poured out upon all nations. It is our duty to look after our dead, and if we will, the spirit of the Lord will come to us, peace and comfort shall be given to us, and even though we lose our sons, the sting of death shall be taken away if we keep the commandments that the Lord has given us. "In our mission, with a little group of less than 400 women, we have sent in to the temple during the last year 3,300 names, and when I tell you that those sisters, many of them, work by the day in stores, in shops, some of them scrubbing, ironing, taking care of the sick, or what they can, to pay for that temple work, you will know that they believe and are fully converted to the principle of salvation for the dead. And so I say the Lord has blessed us as he said. He has kept his promise to us." GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 325 President Emmeline B. Wells then addressed the meeting: "My beloved brethren and sisters, I am sorry I am hoarse, but feel that I must speak, because I have the same feeling at this conference that I have had previously, that perhaps I might not be spared until another conference, you know, all of you, that I am not young, and probably most of you know that I have been a very long time in the Church — seventy-six years, the first day of March, since I was baptized into the Church — nearly four score years in the Church, and in that long experience I have seen and heard wonderful things. I have never doubted, not once, the truth of the gospel as revealed through the Prophet Joseph. "We should guard our children and protect them from everything that is wrong; and when they do marry, they should marry, in the House of the Lord, the Temples that we have built here wherein ceremonies of this kind should take place; so that their children may be born in the new and everlasting covenant and be entitled to every blessing pertaining to that calling. "We speak of our young men as our boys. I remember that in Nauvoo they u.sed to speak about the Nauvoo Legion as the boys of the Nauvoo Legion. A great many of them were boys, and the Prophet Joseph himself was young. When we look back and think of his age, think of what he had passed through, and the terrible persecutions he endured, and then of his terrible death, and his brother Hyrum, and what they suffered, it startles us! However, we believe what the scriptures say, that the blood of the martyrs is the seed of the Church; and since that time, how wonderfully the Church has grown. "I recall the very, very dark hours in Nauvoo, when the Prophet was taken to prisoi., and how the people mourned, mourned as if he were their very own — it is sad even to think of it, the mourning of the people at the time when the Prophet and his brother Hyrum (the father of our present prophet, seer and revelator today) were taken to prison; and how the people turned out in the streets to watch them go! And I recall that President Daniel H. Wells said many times when he spoke of it, that they passed his house, which was just on the outskirts of the city, and that the Prophet stopped and spoke to him and said to him, "Squire Wells, I hope you won't think I am the worst man in the world because I am going to prison" There was a crowd of people all the way they went. I saw them when they went, and the crowd that followed them. But this was really on the outskirts of the city when he spoke to Squire Wells and shook hands with him, I believe if I remember right. Squire Wells had not then become a member of the Church, although I think he was convinced that "A^ormonism" was true, and tried to wait for his wife to believe as he did. You know t!ie story, all of you — I 326 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. do not need to repeat that, but I do want to bear my testimony, even if it should be the last that I would have the opportunity to bear to you, of the Prophet Joseph and his wonderful personality. "I think there is no person — there could not be any one, so devoid, I think, of the knowledge of people, that could think that there was anythingbut loyalty and truth and love and mercy in his character. He certainly had a divine appearance. It seems to me tiiat he must have been very much like the Savior himself. When I think of him I can see him just as plain as anything' can be in my mind's eye, as if he stood here in the midst of us, speakingto the people as he did on every occasion that I heard him talking to the people. "We have had persecution here, but not to com])are with that. We have had the army in Echo canyon, and kept them there for a while, until we could move to Provo and other places in the south. And then we returned in great triumph. I recall the time when Heber C. Kimball came into the house where three of the Wells family were gathered at that time in Provo, and he sat down to talk to us. He saw that we were gloomy — especially I was gloomy, because T had seen the time when we were driven from Nauvoo, an.d when my own mother died from persecution. She was not fifty years old when she died of the hardships. Of course hundreds of others died as well. When we went to Provo it brought it all back again — and Heber C. Kimball sat in our house in Provo, before we went into the shanties, and said, "Emmeline, let me tell you that we shall go back to Salt Lake City, and we shall go back in triumph." It was pretty hard to believe, and I do not know that I did exactly believe it, but it came to pass. "The Lord has preserved us in these valleys of the mountains. He has keyit us, and we are preserved, and we have grown and we have multiplied, and in nearly all of the nations of the earth and on the islands of the sea we have people faithful and true, just as we try to be who live here under the droppings of the sanctuary, and hear our prophets speak and talk and hear our President. All of us, probably, who are here in this house have heard President Joseph V. Smith speak from the stand in the Tabernacle. Undoubtedly w^e have, and I hope we shall again <luring this conference. And we have this grand Society, this Society of women, that was organized by the Prophet Joseph himself in the City of Nauvoo, in the Masonic Hall. There were then only a few, 18 in number, and three of the brethren of the Priesthood with them. And w^e have still kept on. Now we have hundreds an.d thousands in the Relief Society, and I believe we have all been well taught, even those who have been in foreign countries, When I heard Brother Hyrum MSmith'.s wife speak GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 327 as she did at one of our conferences recently, I felt that the Lord had certainly been with her in proclaiming the truth there, almost as much, I may say, as he had with the elders. And our sisters who have traveled and gone in foreignthecountries with their husbands and some without them, and missionaries who have been called to stay there, their wives have gone with them; and then the young girls, young women, who have been called into the mission field, they have all done a great work. "I remember, in Nauvoo, when some of the missionaries would be starting away, I thought, 'I only wish I were a boy, and if I could go on a mission, howsee glad I would be!' And I never expected then that I would the day when the women would be called to go abroad and teach and preach the gospel. But I am very glad that I have lived to see that day. Soon after going to Nauvoo, having been associated always with the people in Nauvoo, I heard a very great deal about missions and going on missions, and I had the greatest -desire in the world even then to go on a mission, though we were sick, and distressed, and poor, and had scarcely enough to eat. But I have never been really sent on a mission. I think I have been eleven times in Washington— on special missions, and I have been abroad, and I have talked the gospel to hundreds of people and strangers everywhere I went, if there was any opportunity at all. I have never been called upon a mission; but I was set apart to this mission that I have now in the Relief Society, which is as great a mission as I can possibly have. I love the sisters of the Relief Society as I love myself and my own kindred — they are just as near to me as many of my own kindred are that are dear to me; and my kindred are very dear to me. I feel that I made some sacrifice when my mother died a martyr to the faith, but I do not feel that I have made any great sacrifice at all myself, because my ways have been ways of pleasantness, and everything has been pleasing to me. "The Prophet said that the people would come to Zion with their packs on their backs to be fed; and I know a story in connection with this which I could not tell you today. It is a very good one and proof that it was taken to heart by some people. I do not think that they have as yet come in that way, but probably they will, because of the terrible wars that take place in the world today, that are taking place today, and that may yet take place in the future, if the prophecies of the Bible and of the Book of Mormon, and the Prophet Joseph Smith and of President Young are fulfilled, they certainly will; and it looks now as if it was not so very far off when they would come to be fed. *'I am very glad that I have had the experiences that I have had; I am very glad that I am able to tell them to the people wherever I go, the wonderful things that we passed through in 328 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. the early days, the wonderful man President Brigham Youngwas, as well as the Prophet, for certainly he was one of the greatest minds ever given to man. Except the Prophet, we consider him until now the greatest. Perhaps there have been other great men. At the present time we have the same blood in the man that presides over us today that the Prophet had in his veins. "I recall with great pleasure the mother of the Prophet, how we used to come and kneel down at her feet and think it was the greatest pleasure possible, that she must be the greatest woman in the world, because she was the mother of the Prophet Joseph Smith, whom we all revered above any man that we have ever seen. And yet we have the same blood today, the blood of the martyrs, presiding over us today! I hope that you, all of you, and all of you who preside and have an opportunity to speak in meetings, will remember the man who stands at the head of the Church today, and who presides over us, that he is the greatest man living on the earth today. No kin^ or potentate, or anything else, no matter what position he may occupy, is so great as the man who presides over the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, of which we are members; and I hope that you will all pray that he and those associated with him may live, that he will have his family and friends, and all the Twelve Apostles, and especially the President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, who is also a great man. Those who hold the Priesthood in places where they have been called to preside should be reverenced and looked up to. And let us have that great love in our hearts alw-ays that we felt perhaps when we were first baptized into the Church, the love for each other, in the Relief Society and for all those women who have been called in the Young Ladies' and the Primary Associations. Let us love them, and let us help all men, all brothers and sisters, all good people everywhere, for God is love, and love must be the greatest thing in the world when the Scriptures tell us that God is love. Let us love each other, and be true to each other in our relation to each other in the Relief Society and all the other organizations with which we may be connected or our children or our daughters or our sons.. Let us be as strong in the faith as it is possible for us to be, and maintain our purity, maintain our integrity to the gospel and to those with whom we are associated, to our own, and to all others who are good people. "That the Lord may bless the Relief Society in every part and portion thereof, and all other good people in the world, is my prayer. Amen." Mothers in Israel. MRS. ANN HYER BUDGE AND FAMILY. We are happy to present to our readers as the frontispiece of this number the remarkable family of a remarkable mother. We doubt whether there is such a family at present anywhere on the earth, a family of fifteen such healthy, handsome, gifted and thorough Latter-day Saints as is presented in this picture. The mother looks but little older than her children, while the children themselves are noble examples of the value of the applied principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Nor would we forget or minimize the great factor found in the splendid fatherhood of President William Budge, who gave life and being to this choice group of sons and daughters. Presi- ;dent Budge is one of the great pioneers of this Church. He was an early settler in Bear Lake valley in Idaho. When that stake was organized in 1877, he was made president, which position he retained until he was called to Logan, on the death of President Mariner W. Merrill, to act as President of the Logan temple, which position he still occupies. Himself a remarkable man, not the least of his executive gifts lies in the strict yet kindly methods which he set in operation for the upbringing of his own numerous and splendid family. The modest yet illuminating sketch received concerning the life and labors of this great mother in Israel follows. We commend the prayerful study thereof to all young mothers in Israel who would prepare themselves to become the righteous mothers of the righteous sons of men: ANN HYER BUDGE. Among the large families to be found in the "Mormon" Church is the family of Mrs. Ann Hyer Budge of Logan, Utah, whose parents. Christian and Caroline Hyer came from Norway and were numbered among the first to cross the plains. Mrs. Budge was born in Bountiful, January 25, 1853, and when but seven years of age she moved with her parents to Richmond, Utah. She was early taught to help her mother with the housework, as well as'to assist her father in the fields, especially during hay time and harvest. During the grasshopper times, Mrs. Budge and her sister were assigned the task of driving the hoppers from the grain field by the use of a long rope which they stretched out ami dragged over the growing grain. The grasshoppers were 330 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. thus driven to a pile of straw which was afterwards set on fire and in this way baskets of the.destroyers were destroyed. Mrs. Bndge had very Httle opportunity to gain an education, as the pioneer facilities for instructions made advanced schooling almost out of the question. In January, 1868. Ann Hyer met William whom she married the following April 4. and immediately afterwards moved to Providence, Utah, where she did anything and everything she could to assist in the making of a livelihood for her growing family. In the autumn of 1870, President William Budge was called by President Brigham Young to take his families and move to Bear Lake, Idaho, there to assume charge of the Church affairs in that section. Mrs. Budge brought fifteen children into the world — eight boys and seven girls — and has been blessed in that she was successful in rearing all of them. At the time this photograph was taken, the boys averaged a weight of 201 pounds, and the girls averaged 162 pounds, making an actual weight of 2,742 pounds of her offspring. Besides caring for all of these children Mrs. Budge has devoted more or less of her time to Relief Society work, as an active teacher; and she is always willing to assist in any material way required. Today she is counted as one of the strongest and healthiest women in the country. It might well be argued from this sterling example that rearing children promotes vitality and youth in the mother, while not impairing health or happiness in the children as some people are wont to assert. We are exceedingly proud of this exhibit and present the same to our readers and to the world as a family in Israel. SKETCH OF DAVID P. KIMBALL. Elder Solomon F. Kimball has put time and much loving endeavor into an interesting sketch of his able and forceful brother David. The pages glow with pioneer items and word pictures. Not the least interesting portions of the book are those intimate, thrilling chapters which reveal some vital experiences of the quaint and remarkable author himself. We cordially recommend itto our friends and readers. Experience. By Lucy May Green. The knittingneedles clicked merrily in the hands of the dozen or more women gathered in the comfortable sitting room of Sister Burton of Alvon ward. The occasion was a special meeting of the Relief Society Red Cross workers and the tongues vvagg-ed briskly as the busy fingers plied their needles. In one corner of the room a bright, veracious woman was relating some funny experience and the work was interrupted by peals of m.erry laughter. Another group were discussing recent events in their neighward officers. borhood, and I'm sorry to relate, were criticizing some of their "This will never do," thought President Hunter, "in a moment or two we shall be g'ossiping.''' "Sisters," she called aloud, "let us have a song. We will sing, 'Count Your Blessings.' " A hush fell over the gathering, then a chord was.sounded, and the voices mingled in the familiar hymn of gratitude. "We have many blessings," began the president as the song concluded, "so many that we cannot count them all, some we seldom think of, others we do not use at all. Take for instance, the use of consecrated oil in the home. Many of our people do not even keep a bottle of oil on hand, and if illness comes, and the Priesthood is called to administer the healing ordinance, it has to be done with borrowed oil, or delayed until some can be purchased and consecrated. A bottle of oil occupies first place in my medicine cabinet," she continued, "I could not keep house without it." "That is true," answered Sister Larsen, "we do not half appreciate itsvalue. The last time I visited my 'block' I called at the home of one of our good sisters, and found it all confusion. A two-year-old youngster was screaming lustily in the arms of his mother who was walking the floor in a vain attempt to comfort him. 'Whatever's wrong?' I enquired. 'Why,' she returned, 'my boy is ruptured, and the friction caused by his truss has chafed him badly, and I have no salve or ointment left,' she concluded lamely. " 'Have you any consecrated oil?' said I. " 'Yes, but I would not dare use it myself; that is only for the Priesthood to use,' said she. " 'What an idea!' I replied; 'isn't it to be used in the house- 332 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. hold of faith? Do you think I'd let my child suffer when a few applications of healing oil would soothe and relieve? And if you would use enough faith, without doubt, it would effect a cure.' But she would not be convinced, and as I left she was planning to send to the drug store for vaseline." "Sisters," said President Hunter, "this is an interesting topic for discussion. Let us have your experiences." "When I came over from England," spoke up Sister Rose, "I brought along a bottle of consecrated oil in my dressing case, and when on board ship, the company of Elders and Saints began to get seasick. Aly oil was kept in constant us for the healing ordinance; in fact, it was the only bottle of oil on board. One faithful old sister became very ill, and was administered to frequently. She died on the overland journey, but I often think of her faith, and the comfort brought about through the administrations of the Priesthood, and my bottle of oil." "My sister Lou," began Sister Bruer. "always takes some consecrated oil when we go on our canyon trips. I used to laiigh at her, but on one occasion, when we all got poisoned through eating some bottled beans, we found it very useful. Tliat was a dreadful recollection.experience," and she shuddered as if to shut out the "Some have faith to heal, others have faith to be healed. The latter has been my especial gift," began Sister Stevens. "PYom my childhood up I have always desired to be administered to whenever I was sick. If no Elders were available, I used the holy oil myself. I have great faith in the blessings pronounced on it when it is consecrated by the Priesthood. I have used it for neuralg'a, for earache, headache and for burns." "That renninds me," observed Sister Mayne. ''Just recently I received a distinct impression to get a new bottle, as mine was almost gone. I did so, and a few days later I was washing and the boiler bubbled over, severely scalding my feet. My folks wanted me to send for the doctor, but I used plenty of gauze soaked in consecrated oil, was also administered to, and in less than two weeks my burns were completely healed, and scarcely 3ny scar remains. It was an additional testimony of the blessings of the gospel," she concluded. "Five o'clock, and time to dismiss," called President Hunter. "We have heard some wonderful experiences; let us profit by them and in counting our many blessings let us return our thanks to our Father in heaven, that he has restored the Priesthood to earth, and the gifts of the gospel, among which is the healing ordinance and the use of the holy consecrated oil." Unusual Mothers. M. MELISSA SUMMERHAYS. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. M. Melissa Sumnierhays, daughter of Joshua Parker and Drucilla Hartley, was born at Kanesville, Pottawattamie County, Iowa, May 21, 1852. That same year her parents crossed the plains. They settled in the Sixteenth ward, in which ward Melissa was reared. At the time of the "Move," being then five years of age, she went South with her parents and remained there until Johnston's Army passed through Salt Lake City en route to Camp Floyd, when they came back to their home in the Sixteenth ward. On June 27, 1870, she was married in the Endowment House to Joseph William Summerhays, and is the mother of sixteen children — nine girls and seven boys. Her sons have performed seven missions as follows: To England, to, the Southern States, Samoa, Switzerland. Germany and France, and she now has one son who is serving his country with the United States Expeditionary forces, in France. In 1892 she removed to the Forest Dale ward of the Granite stake in which ward she now resides. She was a member of the Relief Society in the 16th ward and has been a member of and a teacher in the Relief Society in the Forest Dale ward ever since it was organized. Her special mission in the ward in which she now lives is to visit the sick and to administer to the sisters who expect to become mothers. In talking with her about her life's labors, her desires and aspirations, she stated that above all other things she was thankful for, was the gospel, and for the comifort and consolation that is brought to her. She said that she knew that the gospel was true and that in her weak way she had been trying to keep the com- 334. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. niandments of God. in doing whoch she found unspeakable consolation. Notwithstanding Melissa is now 66 years of age, and has had sixteen children, she is a well preserved woman and her dark hair shows very few gray hairs. EVANGELINE DUNN HUNSAKER. MOTHER OF SEVENTEEN CHILDREN. Evangeline Dunn Hunsaker is the mother of seventeen children. Great has been her mission here on earth and well and faithfully has she performed the same. She was born September 12. 1853. in ^Brigham City, meon L'tah. A. Dunn,Her was father. Sione of the first settlers of Brigham City, and lived in the old fort, together with President Lorenzo Snow and others. Her mother's name was Harriet Attwood Silver, who joined the Church in Lowell, Massachusetts; and leaving all her family and friends for the gospel's sake she went to Winter Quarters, where she met and married Simeon A. Dunn. They emigrated to L^tah in 1848. Seven children were born to them — three sons and four daughters, as follows: Sarah S.. Simeon A., Emaline and Evaline (twins), Charles O., Harriet and Henry (twins). Harriet Atwood Silver Dunn died January 1. 1858, leaving her seven children with a mother's care. Evangeline was only four years old at the time of her mother's death. She with the other children were left to the care of their father and an older sister (Susannah Dunn), whose mother was also dead, and who was only fourteen years old when these little brothers and sisters were left to her care. In the midst of poverty, the hard times and privations incident to the early pioneer life in Utah, the children all young, were subjected to a life of hardship that may be imagined only by persons acquainted with such scenes. October 5. 1868. in the Endowment House. Salt Lake City, Evangeline was united for time and for eternity to Allen Collins UNUSUAL MOTHERS. 335 Hunsaker. Soon after her marriage she moved with her husband to Honeyville. where they Hved for about eleven years, when they settled in Ehvood. Utah, being among the first settlers, again pioneering a new country. Her husband was a farmer and sheep man. He was Presiding Elder of the branch for over ten years and always received encouragement and help from his wife. Seventeen children were born to them, namely: Simeon A., Lewis, Eva L., Lily J\L. Emaline INI.. Harriet V., Ethel, Adeline (died in infancy), LaTitia. Margaret, Susie, Aleen, Nephi'(died at two years of age), Oscar (.died at three weeks), Lorenzo S., Amy, and Harold (died in infancy). Thirteen of the seventeen children are now grown to maturity, and all except one ( Lorenzo S.) are married and all had that ordinance performed in the Temple. Surelv the teachings, the example and the loving counsel of this parent have not been in vain! If the children of this loving mother do anything wrong, or if they do not keep the commandments given to them as members of this Church, it will not be because the mother and father failed to teach them by example and precept every principle of the gospel. Sister Hunsaker is a faithful member of the Church, being a worker in the ward Relief Society and helping in every way she can. She is the grandmother of 74 children and has four greatgrandchildren whose father (Simeon A.) died in 1902 and their mother in 1904. She has taken these children (the oldest being seven years old when their mother died), and cared for them, and they are now grown men and women. The eldest (Simeon V. Hunsaker) has enlisted in the Navy. Two of Sister Hunsaker's sons — Simeon A. and Lewis — have filled honorable missions; the first to Germany and the latter to England. For almost forty-nine years she has been a constant companion, atrue and devoted wife and a loving mother. Long may she yet remain to be a source of inspiration to her posterity. FOR RELIEF SOCIETY SINGERS. A new and tuneful duet for soprano and alto, entitled, "Prince Charming," by our popular and veteran composer, John Chamberlain, is now on sale at the Chamberlain Music Company, 44 South Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah; price 50c per copy. Home Entertainments. By Mo rag. Much of the joy we receive through Hfe comes from association with one another in the family circle, in the hospitable homes of our friends and in our various Church and school gatherings; Many of our homes are now feeling the loneliness of separation from loved ones enlisted in their country's service, and the uncertain waiting that only such a war as this can bring. We know it is our patriotic duty to be wise and economical of our resources, as well as of our time and money. It is equally as much our patriotic duty to bring as much joy and sunshine into the world as we possibly can. Uncle Sam is doing everything possible to provide recreations for his soldiers in every branch of the service; they have unlimited chances to play, sing and smile. I-'ortunately happiness makingneed not he costly either in expenditure of materials, t'me or labor; only a little, sometimes, in the amount of thought, love and personal sacrifice involved. We need home fun, and parties to keep up the normal balance of our lives. The month of June brings many social occasions, wedding parties and receptions, class parties, exercises for flag day. Let these be as simple and inexpensive as possible; avoid ostentation; let the costumes of our brides conform to the Church standard; use simple, home cooked meals, instead of those furnished bya costly caterer, and for decorations the fragrant flowers from the home garden. Whatever refreshments are served at your parties let them conform strictly to the "Hoover" standard and be made to take the place of one of the regular meals whenever practicable. Every bit of the happiness we can create in our homes and hearts over here will find its way across the water to those so bravely going "over the top" for us that we may live. FLAG DAY. June 14, the anniversary of the adoption of the flag, is celebrated throughout the land. The age of the American flag surprises many, for it was adopted by the Continental congress on June 14, 1777. It is, therefore, eight years older than the flag of Spain, seventeen vears older than the tricolor of France, twenty-three years HOME ENTERTAINMENTS. 337 older than the British ensign, and preceded the flags of Italy (1848), Japan (1S59), and Germany (1871). On Flag Day hold patriotic exercises in the home, school and Church. Renew your pledge of allegiance, and celebrate the day with patriotic song, sentiment, and,story. Decorate your homes with flags and bunting. Good floral combinations are red and white carnations and blue cornflowers, or crimson roses with blue and white larkspur. The Flag in Song. "Flag of the Free." "We'll Never Let the Old Flag "Star Spangled Banner." Fall." "There are Many Flags in "Old Glory." Many Lands." "Flag Without a Stain." "The Emblem of Freedom." "My Own America." "How Betsy Made the Flag." "The Red. White and Blue." The follow'ng sentiment written on flag' decol'ated cards would make appropriate souvenirs or place cards: "Listen, son! The band is playing 'The Star S])angle(l Banner.' They have let loose 'Old Glory' yonder. Stand u]), bare your head, lift your eves and thank (icd that you live under the flag." Refreshments for Flag Day party. Star-shaped san'lwiches, tomato jelly salad garnished with white potato stars, lemon ice cream with raspberry syrup and a tiny flag in each dish, and graham or oatmeal cookies. HOME EVENING. June 1 and June 27 are dates that should be remembered in every Latter-day Saint home. The former is the birthday of that great pioneer and leader, the Moses of modern Israel, Brigham Young; while the latter.date is the anniversary of the martyrdom of the Prophet and Patriarch of the last dispensation, Joseph and Hyrum Smith. SOME "'conservation" REFRESHMENTS. Honey Nut Sandza^icJies. To half a cup of honey add all the finely chopped nuts it will hold. Spread between thin slices of brown bread I'ghtly spread with peanut butter. Peanut Dainties. Spread small wafers or graham crackers wi th peanut butter. Put a fresh marshmallow in center of each. Heat in a moderate 338 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. oven until marshniallovvs turn a light brown. Serve with barley coffee or grape juice. Popcorn Macaroons. Mix one cupful of finely ground popcorn with one tablespoon of softened butter. Add this to the white of one egg beaten to a stiff froth with onefourth cup of sugar. Flavor with vanilla and add a little salt. Drop mixture in little molds on baking sheet. Bake in slow oven till light brown. Fruit Rice Pudding. Half fill small ramekins with cold rice pudding. ]\Iake a cavity in center of each; fill with a tablespoon of raspberry or currant jam; smooth over more rice to conceal filling; dredge with pulverized sugar and bake five minutes in hot oven. No sauce is needed. Serve hot or cold. Flag Day Nectar. Dissolve two cupfuls of sugar in same amount of cold water; add grated rind of one orange (only the yellow part to be used). Bring this to a boil. Strain this syrup; add juice of two lemons and two oranges, two quarts of raspberry or strawberry juice and one quart of cold water. Serve ice cold. Fruit Ice. Crush three ripe bananas to a pulp; add juice of two lemons and four oranges. Boil three cups of water with two of sugar and the grated rind of one lemon and one orange for a few minutes. When cold combine with fruit mixture. Turn into freezer and freeze. BUTTERMILK. Sour milk may easily be beaten into buttermilk with an eggbeater. People who live in the city and find it difficult to get honest buttermilk will find this method an excellent one. STUDENTS, ATTENTION. The many calls by our Society members for the book by Lew Wallace entitled The Fair God have exhausted the $0.65 supply in the city book stores. There are still a few of the $L50 edition. But Prescott's Conquest of Peru and Mexico gives more information, and it is not cast in the form of fiction, but is true, pure and simple. These books were suggested as supplementary to the study of the Book of Mormon. ^**\> 4««"* Our New Board Member. MRS. DONNETTE SMITH KESLER. The new member of our Board is the daughter of President Joseph F. Smith and his wife Julina L. Smith, First Counselor of this Board. Her noble parentage did not altogether qualify her for this responsible position, but rather the intelligent use she has made of all her gifts and inheritances. She is a college graduate, a long-time teacher, a loyal daughter, a fond wife, and a devoted and wise mother. She will occupy a most useful yet modest and unassuming place in our active Board membership. She was born in 1872, in Salt Lake City. A thorough student, she graduated from the L. D. S. U. in 1892, and for two years thereafter acted as lady superintendent of that institution. in 1896 she went to the Pratt Institute of Brooklyn, New York, taking up kindergarten work, graduating from that institution with high honors "in 1898. She taught kindergarten work in the University of Utah from 1898 to 1900 P.as Kesler, one of their first specialists. She was married to Alonzo December 26, 1900, who had just returned from the presidency of the Eastern States mission. They were a handsome and striking couple and qualifiedKesler well Sister to assume life's marital responsibilities. still continued in her kindergarten teaching, until 1905, giving special summer courses, not only in Salt Lake City, but in Logan, Ogden and Manti. These courses were the outgrowth of the excellent plans prepared by Sister Kesler for 340 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. the General Board of the Sunday School Union, and constituted model Sunday School training courses. She therefore laid the foundation for the subsequent kindergarten Sunday School work of the Church. She was one of the first workers in the Salt Lake Temple, was president of the Y. L. M. I. A. in the Sixteenth ward for six years, and was on the Salt Lake Stake M. L A. Board under Sister Nellie C. Taylor, until the death of Mrs. Taylor. In later years, Mrs. Kesler has devoted her whole attention to the rearing of her family. She is the mother of six children — three sons and three daughters — the oldest a daughter now 16, the youngest a boy of 6. Two years ago she entered the Forest Dale ward Relief Society, after which she was called to act as superintendent of the genealogical work; and this temple and genealogical labor has engaged all of her spare time in public service since that time. She has worked with her mother in the Temple Clothes Committee work since it was begun, and has been a member of the Surname Book Committee of the General Board, as well as class teacher of the Genealogical Class, held under the charge of the chairman of the committee during the past season in the genealogical class room of the new Church office building. On the 4th of February last, Alonzo P. Kesler died suddenly, leaving his grief-stricken but brave wife to finish her life-work alone. Elder Kesler was at one time president of the Eastern States mission and was always interested in public policies and in the building up of waste places. His death will be keenly felt by his bereaved family. Yet, like a saint, his wife has gathered up her burden cheerfully, not abating one iota of her public or private labors, but meeting all with the serene courage, born of faith and pure integrity. She is a noble representative of her noble and exalted line. From this brief record it will be seen that there is a wide field of labor for Mrs. Kesler on our Board, and she is amply qualified to fill every requirement. She is a fine speaker and natural logician, gifted with patience and tact, a wise counselor, and is a conservative, loyal Latter-day Saint, through and through. We welcome her upon the Board. INSECTS OF THE HOME GARDEN. ^3' Professor JJ\ IT. Henderson, Utah Agricitltural College. There are so many injurious insects which ravage garden crops that it is impossible, and perhaps undesirable in a short article to consider any but those from which we are most likely to suffer injury in our State. We will, therefore, mention only a few of the most flagrant. Many insects feed at night and hide during the day in the recesses of various plants or elsewhere. They are usually protectively colored also, and are not readily seen even when they are doing damage, until they become very numerous. The gardener should therefore keep a watchful eye for the insect intruder. The plants usually show the presence of the enemies by presenting a dwarfed, ragged or discolored appearance. When this occurs, it is high time to look for the offenders. The following insecticides, used in control, can be made up by anyone without previous experience if judgment and care are used in the process: Arsenate of Lead. Mix 3 tablespoonfuls (not heaping) of powdered arsenate of lead into a small quantity of water, making it into a thin paste. Add this to one gallon of water. Keep it stirred when spraying. Poison Bran Mash. Mix 1 ounce of powdered arsenate of lead with 1 pound of bran, juice from half a lemon, a small quantity of syrup or molasses to sweeten, and water enough to dampen. P.ozvdered Lead Arsenate. Mix 1 part of dry arsenate of lead with 3 parts of flour. Use cheese cloth bag or fine spice shaker for.dusting the plants. Soap Solution. Dissolve ^4 pound of laundry soap in 1 gallon of water. Tobacco Solution. Mix 1 teaspoonful of nicotine sulphate in 3 gallons of water in which has been dissolved 2 ounces of laundry soap. Great caution is urged in making up and using insecticides. Lead arsenate and nicotine sulphate as well as the insecticides made from them are very poisonous and extreme care must be taken to keep them out of reach of small children and away from poultry or other domestic animals. •O «: '% eo en u. nts the by of quantities arsenate lead with spray or arsenate lead in pla ej ej attacked being plants Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. The 3/ormon Church, at its April Conference, voted another $250,000 to the Governement Liberty Bond subscriptions. The Temple built by the Latter-day Saints in the Hawaiian Islands has been completed. The Draft Age has been changed by Congress to include all young men reaching the age of twenty-one years in June, 1918. Kerosene oil and Coal are likely to be two items added to the"scarcity" list in the L^nited States by the close of 1918. An earthquake in Southern California on April 21 destroyed two small towns and did a considerable amount of property damaere in others. The new submarine chasers now being made in the United States can travel forty-five miles per hour on the surface of the water. That surelv is a great achievement. The German high seas fleet is being counted on as reaching the Pacific Ocean when the ice in the north is melted sufficiently by the approach of summer. Twenty-six women conductors in London streetcars were poisoned none fatally — in one week in April, by strangers treating them to chocolate candy. In Mexico, food is so scarce that hundreds, especially childpoorer classes die each successive month, of starvation. among the ren, Col. Richard W. Young, of Utah, grandson of President Brigham Young, has been promoted to the position of brigadiergeneral — a promotion earned by merit. In Palestine, in April, the Turks and Germans attached the British at a pvoint a few miles southwest of Nazareth, but were driven back. 344 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Turkey and Bulgaria will soon separate from Germany, is President Wilson's expressed view. Only forcible separation will be efifective. " ? Mexicans to the number of.several hundred have been brought to labor in the Utah and Idaho beet-fields. They are mostly of pure Indian blood. Child welfare is a lovely and timely topic for real and would-be mothers; but many won't-bes seem to be pushing to the front in talking in the present national movement. The United States began rushing troops to France in the latter part of March, so that by this time hundreds of thousanab of American soldiers are facing the German invaders there. American aeroplanes to the number of tens of thousands are now in actual service in training camps, and soon will make their force felt in the European theatre of war. In Russia, the women have been granted the privilege of voting on questions afifecting parish affairs in the Russian church, and even to hold the office of elder and act as psalm-reader. An aeroplane having crossed the Atlantic, was the announcement from Great Britian in April. Official denial was made that it came from the United States, but the latter has aeroplanes that can make the trip. ? Wool is to be taken by the Government at tne price prevailing on July 30. 1917. Thus all the great commodities except those raised in the South have had a maximum price put upon them by the Government. Congress has been criticizing sharply the incompetency of high officials in various national administration departments, with the result that much improvement has been made and more is in prospect. The American Publishers' Association, at its convention in New York in April, condemned the Government censorship at Washington as deceptive and as suppressing news readily obtainable in other countries. Zeebrugge, a German U-base in Belgium, was the object of a desperate and highly courageous attack by the English on April CURRENT TOPICS. 345 22. Much damage was inflicted and concrete sliips were sunk in the hope of closing" that port to the U-boats. Be-rtrand Russell, editor of the London (Eng.) Tribunal, and Miss Joan Beauchamp. owner, have been sentenced on conviction of "abusing" (maligning) American troops, Russel to six months imprisonment and Miss Beauchamp to pay a fine of $300. . .Easter Sunday, 1918, in commemoration of the resurrection of Jesus of Nazareth, was celebrated peacefully and earnestly at a meeting of about four thousand Christians of various denominations assembled upon the Mount of Dlives, Palestine— the first occasion of the kind in history. Holland is in an awkward predicament as to its neutrality. Germany insists on pushing war materials through that country to the fighting front, while America will not supply the Netherlands food if such aid to Germany continues. It seems to be either fight or starve. Three long-range cannon, made by Germans, surprised the military and mechanical world in April, by being used to bombard Paris from St. Gobain wood, a distance of seventy-five miles. The highest point reached in the flight of the missile thrown is estimated at twenty miles above the earth. Russia has lost one-third of its population and scores of square miles of territory by annexations to Germany in the peace treaty arranged with the Bolsheviki. This accounts for many Russian army units being reofficered by Germans and incorporated into the kaiser's armies. Germany's great drive began March 25, and forced the allies in France backward about forty miles at one point. At the end of April Germany, the battle the still since was on, wi'thof the defection Russia the determinedly. resisting allies from allied cause, has about two men to one against the allies in France. Certain labor unions in the West called a.strike for May 1, as a protest against T. J. Mooney, convicted of murder during the preparedness parade in San Francisco, being executed. If Moonev is guilty of the crime charged, his sympathizers by strikes cannot lay claim to loyalty to the United States in the present crisis. Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams, Red Cross. The development and expansion of the American Red Cross has been one of the most remarkable achievements of the war. Spurred on by orders from General Necessity the Red Cross workers of the Mountain division, comprising Utah, New Mexico, Wyoming, and Colorado, continued their record-breaking activities during March. Figures compiled at division headquarters in Denver show that the valiant troops of various chapters, branches and auxiliaries are maintaining a "barrage" of our necessities that will be of great assistance in keeping old General Von Suffering from advancing his forces into alHed territory. During the month, 992,169 articles, including knitted goods, hospital garments and supplies, surgical dressing and refugee garments, were received at the division warehouse. The February receipts were 888,834 articles, and the January receipts 567,- 684 articles. Thus, it will be seen, the division production has practically doubled since the first of the year. Plenty of Yarn Now Available. — The Mountain Division Supply Department advises that it now has an abundant supply of varn. It can supply all chapters. The present price, as established byWashington headquarters, is $2.30 a pound. Director Standart, of the Bureau of Supplies, wishes to impress upon chapters the necessity of following a uniform practice in ordering supplies. Be sure to specify what yarn is for, also color desired. He urges the use of Form 250. Do not put anything on this but the order. If it is desired to ask any questions, write on a separate sheet. The matter then will be referred to the proper department, and more prompt attention is assured. Food Production. Preachers Asked to Help in Food-Production Campaign. — Ministers of All Religions Requested to Tell their People How America Needs Food. — Washington, 'D. C. Every [minister, priest and rabbi in the United States is to be asked to join in the campaign that aims to insure this year record-breaking crops of every farm product. PATRIOTIC DEPARTMENT. 347 We learn from a New York paper that on one day in one street alone, 200 pounds of half-loaves and pieces of bread were found in the garbage pails of that city. This street was but one of 300 squares in that great center. The same article states that there are 216,000,000 pounds of flour wasted in that city annually. Surely the food conservation movement will do somearticle The popular states that while wasteful thing' for these many fashionable women arepeople. and extravagant out doing work, their maid-servants waste more than these women could possiblv earn. Child Welfare Work. The government is emphasizing the needs of little chddren who are deprived of milk. Of 756 Baltimore children between 2 and 7 years of age. only 29 per cent are now having fresh milk to drink as against 60 per cent a year ago. And only 20, or less than cups 3 per cent of the children studied are having as much as three a day. With the babies under 2 the Children's Bureau says the situation is a little less serious. Apparently their needs are more generally understood than the needs of the child over 2. Most serious, according to the Children's Bureau, is the general substitution in the drinking child's diet of tea and coffee. Of the 575 children who are not milk, 64 per cent have definitely substituted tea and cofifee, and 24 per cent are "sharing the tea or coffee, or milk in otherdiet," fami'lv foods.which may or may not include The Children's Bureau states: "Taking a pint and a half of fresh milk as the desirable daily allowance for the average child. these 756 children were having last year on an average only 40 per cent of what they should per have had; this year their daily allowance has dwindled to 14.4 cent of this allowance. "The work of Children's Year should emphasize in every community the importance of fresh milk in the diet of young children. Without proper nourishment, children can not keep well and free from physical defects, and a campaign of education on the feeding of children is an essential part of the saving during the second year of the war." When lives of 100,000 children cannot or will not use raw milk it should be made into gravies, soups and custards. "Mothers are just beginning to realize that the better care which babies must have if 100,000 of them are to be saved during Children's Year, should commence before the baby is born. Every year three times that number of children under five die and are lost to the country before they have lived much beyond infancy. Alarge part of this vast multitude of young Americans 348 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. perished needlessly, because many of the deaths could have been prevented by proper and sufficient care. At what age do most of these preventable deaths occur? What are the proven methods by which babies' lives may be saved? From the answers to these questions mothers will appreciate the special work for children which they can do during Children's Year. The first and largest number of deaths among little babies is due to what are called the prenatal causes. The essential features of good care for expectant mothers are proper and sufficient food, rest, freedom from overtaxing forms of work and from worry, and prompt attention to small ailments as they arise. A prospective mother needs a light, nutritious diet of digestible foods, such as she likes and her appetite demands. Fried and greasy foods, heavy puddings, and all heavy or rich pastries, or an excess of any one article, should be eliminated from her diet, as well as anything which she does not readily digest. It is also important that the expectant mother should drink a sufficient quantity of water each day. During the last eight weeks before the baby comes the mother should, as far as possible, be spared all forms of heavy and taxing labor, in order that her strength may be built up in anticipation of the coming demand upon it. The baby's proper development alsothedepends upon the mother's condition at largelyhalf this time, since baby gains his weight in the last eight weeks of pregnancy. The mother's ability to nurse her baby and depends largely upon the care she has during these last weeks immediately after confinement. The Children's Bureau, Washington, D. C, will send to any one asking for it a pamphlet giving simple directions to mothersto-be. It is a comforting reflection to the Relief Society to know, as always, that we are a few steps in advance of the world in good words and good works. This Society, through the Home Economics department, began the study of child problems more than a year ago, and this year's lessons have dealt very liberally with questions pertaining to the care and feeding of children; so that we are, as usual, quite ready now to take up those detailed studies in child-welfare work prescribed by the government. Weigh Your Child for the Government. The instructions for carrying out the weighing and measuring test of American children under 5 years of age were sent totheCouncil Child Welfare Department of the Woman's Committeedayof bythe of National Defense to its state and local childwelfare chairman, who will be responsible for the test in each PATRIOTIC DEPARTMENT. 349 community. The record cards will follow after word is received of the exact number required by each committee. Parents who wish to enter their children in the national test should communicate with the local chairman of thechild-welfare committee of their State Council of National Defense, or if no such chairman has yet been appointed, with the county or state childwelfare chairman of the council. Local chairmen who have not received instructions about the test or the detailed program of which the test is the first feature should communicate at once with the child-welfare chairman of their State Council of Defense. Utah Woman's Council Activities. In the State of Utah, the Defense Council organization is exceptionally complete. In every town and village w-omen's societies, especially the Relief Societies of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, have existed for many years, and these societies not only formed a working basis for our war efforts, but were very helpful to the general committee in organization work. There is now a branch Council in every county, which assists in any branch of the work which has so far been accomplished. The Woman's Liberty Loan Committee was very active in the second and third Liberty Loan drives, and the success of these drives was, in a large measure, due to the indefatigable efforts of this committee. The Woman's Committee has held its semi-monthly meetings and aimed to proceed, along lines which would be conducive to united effort among the women of the state. The program for the coming year is far broader than before, and the plans indicate that much wall be accomplished. The conservation committee has outlined a plan of work which will go far toward increasing the supply of food production in this state. The Committee on Education is taking steps toward the Americanization of aliens — the w'omen as well as the men. The Government has requested that every effort be made for the saving of one hundred thousand children during the year beginning April 6, 1918, and ending April 6, 1919. The number alloted to Utah to save is 496 children. Physicians, nurses and each organization interested in child-welfare are asked to unite in an earnest endeavor to further this important movement. While this terrible conflict is depopulating the world, every patriotic citizen — man or woman — will consider it a duty to lend every eft'ort toward prolonging the life, and promoting the health and happiness of the rising generation. 350 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Americanization in Utah. The Committee on Education of the Woman's Council of Defense for Utah has been organized about three months. Instructions have been received from the National Committee on Education that the special work to be undertaken throughout the Nation is the conversion to American ideals of the foreign-born population, and the rousing to patriotism of those who may be hikewarm among the native population. Since Utah has a foreign population of about 65.000 out of less than 400,000 inhabitants, mostly in the mining camps, however, it is quite apparent that there is need for active patriotic work. The State committee has undertaken to have a chairman of Education appointed in each county of the state; and to date more than half of the counties are fully organized and ready for work. A letter has been sent to each county chairman of the Defense Council urging her to appoint someone to take charge of this work, and to further its interests. A letter has also been sent to the school superintendent of every county asking his support and to all of the high schools and colleges. All of the foreign newspapers have been visited — including the German, Scandinavian, Greek and Japanese — and have given permission to use their columns for any patriotic purpose. It is the aim of the committee by means of the printed page and the co-operation of the school child to scatter to the individual home much useful information. Also by means of sectional meetings and personal contact to meet many of those who for one cause or another are "disgruntled." This committee is in correspondence with the great New York banker, Mr. Otto H. Kahn, a loyal American of German birth, who is not only a liberal patron of arts and letters, but is more — a loyal, consistent supporter of the U. S. Government, and is in constant council with Government officials, lecturing to GermanAmericans everywhere, and writing the clearest and most formidable of pamphlets in support of the Allies' movement. His article on ''Poisoned Prussianism" will soon appear in our Utah paper, the Beohachter. We are in the war to win and we need the help of every citizen of Utah, and all who are not citizens must be for us — else they are against us! Conservation Pointers. The United States Department of Agriculture, endorsed by the Food Administrator, has just launched a new Food Conservation campaign. The object of this campaign is to stimulate the use of a valuable food made from a by-product of the butter industry. Over forty per cent of our entire milk production is made into butter. When we take 100 pounds of milk for butter, we get 4 pounds of butter. 12 pounds of buttermilk, and 84 pounds of skim milk. This skim milk is now largely fed to farm animals or wasted. The department has found cases where millions of pounds of skim milk was run into sewers from creameries. This skim milk is too valuable a food to be either fed entirely to farm animals, or wasted. If we feed 100 pounds of skim milk to a hog we get in return about 7 pounds of pork. If we make 100 pounds of skim milk into cottage cheese, we get 15 pounds of cottage cheese, which cheese, pound per pound, is the equivalent of lean meat in food value. It contains 25 times more lime than meat, a most valuable bone building material absolutely necessary for young children. It contains nine times more lime than a dozen eggs. It is as efficient a muscle builder as meat or eggs, and a more efificient muscle builder than beans or cereals. We have asked our farmers to produce more food of every kind. Here is a food that we have already produced. To have it. we do not need to plow another acre of ground, or plant another seed, or invest another dollar — it's here — it costs half as much, as meat, and may often replace meat in the diet very advantageously, provided the system can easily digest milk, and its by-products. Shall we use it? r.AKED BREAD AND CHEESE. 4 medium slices of bread. 1 cup of cottage cheese. 1 whole egg. Ya teaspoon soda. 1 ^%% yolk or an egg white. Onion juice. 2 cups' of milk. Parsley and pimento, or picy^, teaspoon salt. alili or chili sauce, nuts if deCayenne pepper, sired. Butter the bread and cut the slices in squares or diamonds. Place a layer, buttered side down, on the bottom of a large shallow buttered baking dish. Dissolve the soda in a little of the milk and with it mix the cheese to a soft cream. Add parsley and pimento or sauce if desired. Spread a thick layer of the cheese 352 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. lig-htly over the bread, and cover with the rest of the bread, buttered side up. Beat the eggs well, mix them with the milk and seasonings, and pour them over the bread. Bake in a slow oven till a knife thrust in to the custard comes out clean. If the milk is warmed and added gradually to the beaten egg, and the baking dish in set in a pan of hot water, the custard cooks more quickly and is less likely to curdle through becoming overheated. Variations. Corn muffins, barley or oatmeal bread may be used instead of white bread. This dish may be made into a hearty sweet pudding by omitting the onion juice and other seasonings and substituting two to three tablespoons of sugar or an equivalent sugar substitute, and raisins or dates, nutmeg or cinnamon, with other spices if desired. Suggested supper or luncheon menu. Baked bread and cheese, green salad or crisp fresh vegetable, toasted corn muffins, fresh or canned fruit. For a heartier meal, add baked or hashed brown potatoes. COTTAGE CHEESE LOAF (oNe). 1 cup cooked rice (dry and 1 tablespoon savory fat or dripflaky), pings. 1 cup cottage cheese. ^4 teaspoon,soda. V2 cup ground peanuts. 1 cup strained tomato. 1 tablespoon chopped onion. 1 cup l)read crumbs (or more). Mix well ami form into a roll. Brush over with melted butter and bake in a moderate oven 25 minutes or until hot. Serve with a medium white sauce to which may be added two tablespoons minced pimento. fried bread with cottage cheese. Spread slices of stale bread thickly with cottage cheese, with which pimentos, nut meats, or some marmalade or jelly has been blended. Dip in a mixture of egg and milk, and fry quickly in butter or other fat. Variation. The egg and milk may be omitted, and the sandwich may be fried b'ghtly in a very small amount of bacon fat. creamed potatoes with cottage cheese. Re-heat cold diced or sliced potatoes in medium white sauce with cottage cheese. For the rule see preceding pages. The best seasoning for this sauce is slice of onion added to the milk while heat-ng and chopped parsley and pimentos; Vs cup of potatoes and y^ cup of the sauce make a generous serving. Boiled new potatoes may be served whole with this sauce. CONSERVATION POINTERS. 353 WHEY HONEY. 1 cup of whey. Yi cup of sugar, or ^ cup.of corn syrup. Mix whey and sugar and boil the mixture till it is of the consistency of strained honey. This syrup will keep indefinitely, if properly bottled, and is delicious for spreading on waffles or pancakes. Used a little thinner it makes an excellent pudding sauce. Since it requires no thickening, it is the easiest possible sauce to make. COTTAGE CHEESE OMELET. 2 eggs. 1 tablespoon chopped pimentos. "4 teaspoon salt. ? tablespoons milk. 3 rounded tablespoons cottage -^ teaspoon soda. cheese. Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately. Add to the yolks the salt, the milk and the cheese with which has been blended the pimento. Finally fold in the stiffly beaten whites; pour into frying pan in which has been melted about ^ tablespoon fat. Cook the omelet slowly until the q^^ has set, place in the oven for a few moments to finish cooking, then fold over in the center. Garnish \\\i\\ parsley. Other seasonings may be used, such as chopped parsley, green pepper or minced ham. Proportions. For each egg, use 1 tablespoon milk, ^ teaspoon salt, plenty of pepper, rounding tablespoon cottage cheese, pinch of baking soda, fat to grease pan. Method. Mix eggs, seasonings and 1 tablespoon of milk for.each eg"g. Scramble eggs as usual in greased pan till entirely cooked. Neutralize acxl in cheese with soda, and stir lightly into tgg. Variations. Parsley and pimento or chives, added to tgg. Suggested supper or luncheon menu. Scramble eggs with cottage cheese; baked potatoes; dandelion or lettuce salad, or sliced tomatoes; barley mufifins; fruit sauce. RELIEF SOCIETY PIN. Because of an increase in the price of material, the jewelers handling the Relief Society pin report that it will be necessary in the future to charge $3.25 for the solid gold pin, and $1.2S for the gold filled pin. How to Present the Genealogical Lesson. The Genealogical Committee of the General Board of the Relief Society held a public meetingin the class-room of the Utah Genealogical Library, on April 8, 1918. Representatives were present from about one-third of the stakes of Zion, although many had left for their homes at the close of the general conference, Sunday evening. The class was under the charge of the chairman of the committee, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, and after some brief welcoming greetings she introduced the two speakers, who treated the following subjects: "How to Secure the Interest and Attendance of Our Genealogical Students," by Mrs. Martha Gee Smith, wife of the Patriarch of the Church, Hyrum G. Smith; and "How to Make the Study of Race History Interesting," by Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler, our new General Board member. Mrs. Smith's address follows: It is with a spirit of humility and dependence upon your faith and prayers that I stand before you this afternoon, praying the Lord will help me to give some information that will not only be interesting, but also beneficial, that you may take home to your respective wards and stakes ideas that will help you to.secure the interest and increase the attendance at our genealogical classes. The interest of the class depends almost entirely upon the teacher with the help that she gets through prayer and study. No teacher can get the desired results in these lessons unless she depends upon our Father in heaven for guidance and assistance, because the genealogical lessons are spiritual lessons. The majority of our genealogical class leaders are not colleg^e graduates, neither are they students of advanced history, but those who are willing to work, no matter if they have but a limited knowledge of history, can acquire the knowledge and skill to present these lessons interestingly and instructively. To such I hope to give some help and information. Let us always remember that all blessings are predicated on law and it is only by obedience to law that we obtain a blessing. So let us not forget, those of us who are keepers of the Word of Wisdom as pertaining to tea and coffee and other things forbidden of the Lord, that he has promised us a blessing. He says, we shay "receive wisdom and knowledge, even hidden treasures of knowledge," through the keeping of that law. Now, if we have HOW TO PRESENT GENEALOGICAL LESSON. 355 done as we have been commanded of the Lord, we are heirs to this blessing and can claim it at his hand. The next requirement is that we must prepare these lessons as if we were to gain them solely through our own study and diligence and earnest seeking. We must seek help from books, finding knowledge wherever we can upon that particular lesson, always making allowance for the statements of historians who had not the Spirit of God to guide them. At the beginning, God was not only the Creator of man, but he was also man's teacher and friend, and taught Adam to read and write and keep a record; and only through disobedience to his commandments were men ever brought down to barbarism and degradation. Therefore, in studying the ancients, through any general history, let us make allowances for the facts.stated which detract from the sure word of God as we have it in the Book of Mormon or Pearl of Great Price, or in any of the books given us of the Lord. Be converted to the vital necessity of your subject of study. For example, I will call your attention to the first set of lessons given us in the Home Economics department. Alany of the sisters complained at these, saying: "Why should we study food or the feeding of babies, or about food values; we have reared our babies and why should we worry about the necessities and preparation of food at our age?" Now observe who is talking food and its value; the whole nation. How inspired were our leaders! The Home Economics department of the Relief Society gave a two-year course in the study of food and its value — two years before the world at large gave it any serious thought. In the same way we hear from ward to ward, and in some places, from stake to stake, the cry: "Why need we go way back to Father Adam and study the history of the ancient world, when there seems so much to engage our time and energies in the topics of the day?" Perhaps I cannot answer such questions to your satisfaction just now, but I bear you my testimony that never in the range of my experience have I known the General Board of the Relief Society or any other auxiliary organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to give a course of study which was not inspired of the Lord, through the need of the knowledge outlined by the General Board of such organization. At some near future time I am sure we will all know just why we are now studying race history. We can find hundreds and thousands of women who will study about and do those things which pertain only to the temporal side of life, while by comparison, there are but a few who idesire or who do obtain the privilege of going into the House of the Lord and doing the work for their kindred dead. 356 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Now^ in taking" up these lessons there are many class leaders who will ask themselves this question: "How can I obtain the required knowledge so that I will be able to impart it to others intelligently?" First, then, do not be satisfied with just that information which you get in the Magazine. The facts found therein are simply notes which must be worked out and applied by the class leader, herself seeking further knowledge in every history, geography and encyclopedia to be found in the neighborhood. She should, however, always make allowances for such information as is found that would contradict the sure word of God. Second, make a liberal use of maps; in fact, I personally would be very reluctant to attempt the teaching of a class of this kind without having access to one or more good maps. A blackboard isalso indispensable. If the class leader is well acquainted with her lesson before undertaking to give it to others, she may be sure of securing their interest; because if anyone has useful knowledge or information to impart, or a message to give, he or she can be assured that the Lord will assist such a teacher to gain the interest of the class and the members will not miss a meeting day when it is genealogical class day. The assignment method i,s an excellent one to adopt. It has been my experience, and I can only speak from experience, that a greater number of the class will be interested if I assign each of the members in turn some part of the work to perform, than when I give it all myself. Next we face the question: "How shall I assign the lesson?" It is usually less interesting and more difficult to give out the questions found at the bottom of the outline than it is to assign various members of the class to give a brief talk on a chosen topic. For example, the teacher might say to one. "You talk a few minutes on Egypt;" to another, "Tell something of Shem, his descendants or his country." Or sj^eak of "Ham and Japheth." Some may not like this method, so each class leader should be allowed to teach her class in her own individual way. If she gets results, that is the one and only criterion. Make use of the -telephone by inquiring after those to whom you have assigned question topics. Call on them personally, if necessary; but when you go into their homes, don't talk about the ordinary things you see of the occupation you find them engaged in, but confine your talk to the subject you have assigned them, and then take your leave. When you are gone the sister you have • visited will thank you for your help, and will not regret the time spent with you. Endeavor to arouse the sisters to a greater interest in actual HOir TO PRESEXT GENEAEOGICAL LESSON. 357 temple work; for after all that is the main object in all this genealogical study and lesson work. You may find some sisters who are more interested in temple work than they are in the Relief Society or our lessons, vice versa. Persuade them all to join the Relief Society; and when you attend your sacrament meetings, pick out such indifferent women and encourage them to join the work. Proselyte for the great Relief Society. To be sure, you may be 'only a genealogical class leader, but you can still be of great benefit to the Presidency of the Relief Society in this way, and in return you will learn that the officers of your Society will be right behind you in all that will benefit the organization in any way. May the Lord bless us all that we may never cease our efforts for good among his people, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler treated the subject of "How to Make the Study of Race History Interesting," touching precision.upon the following points with illuminating skill and careful The diagram which accompanies the lesson was especially suggestive. First, prepare the soil for the seed. Before the earth was formed a council was held and the plan of salvation was made. Time was divided into dispensations as an author divides his book into chapters. Each dispensation having its special work, and all to be bound into one complete volume — the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. The prophecy of the coming of Elijah. His work, part of the greatest work which belongs to this the last dispensation. The world has been moved upon to search out its genealogies, but upon the Latter-day Saints rests the great work of being saviors on Mt. Zion. They only can enter the house of God to bind and to seal or to weld together the links of the many generations into one perfect chain. We cannot stand alone; there is a line of relationship reaching out from each individual in the world to every other individual and all lines must be made perfect before the whole is perfect. In the accompanying diagram No. 1 represents a family of seven, showing their lines of relationship unbroken. No. 2, represents the house of Israel as the Latter-day Saints, or those doing work for their dead, are striving to have it. One complete, unbroken family. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto — Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith....Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Sarah McLelland Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mri. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Miss Edna May Davis Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor SusA Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah 

Vol. V. JUNE, 1918. No. 6 OUR TESTIMONY MEETINGS. Never, since the awful martyrdom of the Sources of Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother, the Strength and Patriarch Hyrum Smith, has this people been Power. in greater need of spiritual guidance, spiritual hope and good cheer than now, today. The clouds are very thick over our heads, those clouds of war and bloodshed which encircle the earth in their pall. Fear, anxiety, and above all the hysterical excitement begotten of frenzied emotions, press upon our hearts and rob our pillows of sleep and our days of comfort. We look upon the morrow as the harbinger of sad news, and dread the hopeless hours of the lonely night, lest collapse seize upon our spent vital forces. Under such conditions we cannot neglect our spiritual opportunities without losing our one source of vital refreshment and renewal. Our meetings, especially our sacrament and testimony meetings, are our most exhaustless sources of strength and power. The electric carriages depend upon the Spiritual clergy stored within their batteries. These Generating Stations batteries, because of separation from a continuous supply of electrical fluid, must be recharged frequently from some central generating station, or they "go dead" when the battery is exhausted. Just so are we  humanly charged with the divine spiritual electrical fluid, yet separated by mortality from the central generating station operated by God's angels. We carry sufficient with us to supply the ordinary life forces, but when EDITORIAL. 359 fear, disease, or death confronts us, we must get back to the Source of spiritual energy for the renewal and revitalizing of our faith and hope. God has named and ordained special houses and particular forms or symbols by which we can obtain this re-charging of spiritual life. Our houses of worship, our temples and altars, dedicated especially to this purpose, are such divine generating stations. In this life-renewal we must observe, how Extremes to ever, two distinct dangers: First, our men be Avoided substitution of worldly ideas and ideals which we sometimes feed to the seekers for strength in these spiritual generating stations in place of the pure, exalted principles of revealed truth; second, the extreme indulgence, the over-charging of our frail bodies with a spiritual fluid which may wreck our hopes and actually weaken our bodies. As an illustration of the first danger: sometimes, especially in our Relief Society meetings, the members become so enthusiastic over the studies and labors connected with home life and war activities that the testimony meetings are set aside and there is no time allowed for spiritual up-building. On the other hand, it may happen that the members find such joy and spiritual exaltation in testimony-bearing that they carry this phase of our work to an extreme, even meeting in private homes and hunting up dreams and visions, sometimes of very doubtful origin, with which to feed the mounting mental excitement. Neither of these practices is wise or desirable. Extremes are ever to be avoided. The Lord, through his servants, has ordained certain seasons for testimony meetings: the general one held by all the people on the first Sunday in each month; and for Relief Society workers, the first Tuesday in each month. On general principles, these two meetings furnish sufficient occasion for testimony-bearing by our Relief Society members. It is not proper to seek too frequent opportunities for testimony-bearing. And far more to be pitied, if not condemned, is the woman who neglects the regular and ordained occasions to build up and renew her spiritual strength while listening sympathetically and prayerfully to others' testimony and occasionally bearing her own. A Relief Society ward or stake officer who Dangers would, or who does stay away from the testimony from Neglect. meetings prescribed on our programs for any purpose whatsoever, is taking upon herself a fearful responsibility. The harm a leading officer may do by setting aside testimony meetings and thus allowing her organization to get a hardening of their spiritual arteries is beyond her power to even guess. Officers, see that this is not done. 360 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. In our testimony meetings let us get and Rational keep the calm, sweet spirit of hope, faith and Testimony. peace. There is no excitement nor frenzy in the manifestations of the Spirit of the Lord. Tears may spring, hearts may melt, but there will be no shadow of what we call hysteria in voice or look upon the countenance of one who is moved upon by the Holy Spirit. Let no one be unwise enough to exercise the gifts  of tongues or prophecy  without the consent of him or her who presides over the meeting. Seek not after unauthorized dreams and fables to quote, for the scriptures are full of true and reliable prophecy and vision. Quote therefore from the scriptures  and study them diligently and constantly. Relate your own frequent and illuminating experiences. Cheer the downcast, bless and praise the Lord, instill faith in the hearts of the young and inexperienced, and seek, in your testimony meetings, to glorify God and to speak well of Zion. Offer up fervent prayers for the mouthpiece of the Lord to this generation, and center your faith on the triumph of right in this terrible conflict. Thus and only thus can Relief Society women get and keep the divine fluid which will renew their war-weary spirits and revivify their exhausted and toil-worn bodies. APOSTLE RICHARD R. LYMAN AND FAMILY. Members of our Board are particularly interested in the appointment to the Apostleship of Elder Lyman, as his wife, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, is our efficient and lovely General Secretary. She is a great tower of strength to the work of this growing organization. Elder Lyman has had the advantage of noble parentage and of wise upbringing. His abounding energy and well-trained mental faculties, together with his many natural gifts should constitute him a tower of strength to the leading quorum of the Church. He will have the support and prayers of the people, and this Board joins in congratulations to himself and his charming companion. Little Silver Mother. To Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells on her 89th Birthday. Words by Kate Thomas. Music by Evan Stephens. [Musical notation follows] 1. Little silver mother, don't you hear the call o' spring, 2. Little silver mother, don't you hear the blackbird sing? 3. Little silver mother, with your heart so full of spring, 'Tis Coaxing you and teasing you to come out in the sun. That says, come out, come out, come out and play at tag with me. The God that gave the wondrous sun that made your garden grow, Life's splashing down its color on the budding crocus bed, And wide grain fields are greening, and the lady slippers red; And I tempests could not draw the sweet forget-me-nots outspread, Because gilding now the glad hearts of the daisies one by one? saw a bluebird flashing in the old, bare maple tree. his warmth gold tipped them, with a never fading glow. 362 LITTLE SILVER MOTHER. MY GUIDING STAR. By Lucy Burnham. "And a little child shall lead them." Dear little arms so soft and white, That twine around my neck at night, Through you I catch a glimmer far Of heaven, dear hands, my Guiding Star. Dear little hands, with the clinging touch, Surely heaven has many such; How few would find the narrow way, But for little hands that guide each day. Dear little hands, when tempted sore, Do you understand and cling the more? You make me strong, I turn aside From weakness when you are my guide. Dear little hands that twine and cling, You keep my heart attuned to sing Praises to God for blessings given, Dear little hands, my guide to heaven. Message to the Young Mothers of Utah and the West As a means of safe-guarding and fostering the growth of our children, the Extension Division of the University of Utah is offering a special course in Child Welfare Work This course may be taken by the mother or expectant mother right in her own home and without interfering with her daily duties. The lectures, pamphlets, etc., have been prepared by some of Utah's eminent baby specialists. The mother, in registering for the course, registers also the age of her baby and all literature is sent her at frequent intervals corresponding exactly with the child's development. THE FEE FOR THIS COURSE IS ONLY $1. All registrations for Child Welfare Work should be sent to the EXTENSION DIVISION OF THE UNIVERSITY OF UTAH, Salt Lake City. A. C. Carrington, Acting Director NOT A GIFT Our boys at the front gladly give, and give, and give to their country, in service and sacrifice, their time, opportunities, blood and tears, their lives, if necessary. We are asked only to loan our money, and at a good interest rate. Without our loans, the free gifts of our boys will be useless. We must back them up, with clothing, munitions, ships and food. 150,000,000 pounds of sugar was our food contribution to the war in 1917. With your help we shall increase that, this year. We have met every call, subscribed to every loan. NOW, with all true Americans, we say, "OVER THE TOP" for the War Savings Stamps. Do your full share; buy these Stamps today. Any bank or post office will help you. Utah-Idaho Sugar Co. Music Through the New EDISON Diamond-disc PHONOGRAPH IT RE-CREATES MUSIC Call or write for FREE beautifully illustrated EDISON Catalogs, with prices, and full details of our easy payment plan. No obligation to you. Daynes-Beebe Music Co 61-3-5 Main Street, Salt Lake Be Patriotic Save wheat, sugar and fats. Good, pure bread can be made of wheat flour and other cereals by using Fleischmann's Yeast details of our easy payment plan. No obligation to you. Daynes-Beebe Music Co 61-3-5 Main Street, Salt Lake Established 1860 Incorporated 1908 GROCERIES S.M.TAYLOR Undertakers and Embalmers & Co. FOR LESS Successors to Joseph E. Taylor The Pioneer Undertaker of the West Shipping Orders a Specialty Fifty-three years in one location  251-257 East First South Street SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Boarding House, Hotel, Efficient Service, Modem THE Methods I Complete Equipment Ranch and Family Trade especially solicited. UTAH STATE, Write for our price list. The Utah State NATIONAL. BANK al Bank features quick We help pay freight. and efficient Service. UTAH One feature is the Unit SALT LAKE CITY CONSUMERS System which greatly WHOLESALE simplifies transactions. GROCERY COMPANY Joseph F. Smith, President Officer: Heber J. Grant, Vice-President Ogden, Utah Rodney T. Badger, Vice-Prest. Henry T. McEwan, Cashier George H. Butler, Atit. Cashier ASK YOUR DEALER Book of Mormon Stories FOR The Cities of the Sun Z. C. M. I. Western Elizabeth Seven fascinating stories Scout Shoes Handsomely Price 40 cents, postpaid illustrated The Ideal out-door DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE SHOE for Men Youths and Boys. Cheap, but service When WE make your Portraits, able. YOU get the correct style, excellence and satisfaction Ask for Z.C M.I. "Everwear" or "The Leader" The Thomas Overalls Studio They don't rip Phone Was. 3491 44 Main St. Machines Let Eardly Bros. Do It. Kinds We manufacture fixtures, do construction work and carry a complete L'ne oi everything for Electricity. Send for our catalog. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH The QUALTROUGH-ALLCOTT UNDERTAKERS CO. Residence Parlors 544 SOUTH MAIN STREET PHONE WAS. 3358 SALT LAKE CITY A New Book on Gospel Doctrine M "THE WAY OF ETERNAL LIFE Written for Young People by BISHOP EDWIN F. PARRY Price, post paid 75c Send Orders to E. F. PARRY, JR. 217 Templeton Building Salt Lake City, Utah STOMACH TROUBLES A SPECIALTY Free Consultation And Examination GREENHALGH REMEDY CO., Inc. Residence Phone Parlors 950 Office Phone Was. 5394 2S EAST FOURTH SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Wedding Invitations Pembroke Company Home of Fine Stationery Send for Samples and Prices and Engraving Kindly mention this magazine -when ordering 22-24 E. Broadway, Salt Lake City For Distinctive Work PHONE HY. 57 MAIL ORDERS SOLICITED 903 Jefferson Street Salt Lake City THE BRUNSWICK-BALKE-COLLENDER CO. Carom and Pocket-billiard Tables for the home. Beautifully illustrated "Home Magnet" catalog furnished on request. 03-o9 West South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Spend a Profitable Vacation at the Utah Agricultural College Summer School First Term. June 10-July 19 Second Term, July 22-AugTist 30. 1918 Students may enter for six or twelve weeks Logan has an ideal climate for study and recreation. Exceptional opportunities are offered to students in: HOME ECONOMICS, which is under the direction this year of Professor Alice Ravenhill, an international authority on Nutrition and Child Study. Miss Ravenhill delivers a course of lectures on Physical Development in Childhood, and supervises the new Practice House which will be open to advanced students. TRAINING COLTISES IN MUSIC for supervisors and teachers of music. COURSES IN ART designed to prepare teachers to interpret successfully the new State adoptions in Art textbooks. SPECIAL WORK IN POLXTRY MANAGEMENT to help to meet the Nation's call for increased poultry production. OTHER COURSES OF INSTRUCTION: Accounting, Agriculture, Botany. Chemistry, Economics, Sociology, Education, Psychology, Public Speaking, English, Geology, History, Library Science, Mathematics Physical Education, Woodwork, Zoology. Lectures by prominent eastern educator" Write for further information to: Director of Summer School, Utah Agricultural College, Logan Utah REIIEF SOCIETY I JULY, 1918. Read about the Relief Society Work in the Outposts A Judean Romance More Honor-crowned Mothers of Men What We are Doing for Patriotism Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. No. 29 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year  Single Copy 10c 