DIVERSIONS.

	DOMESTIC "sauce" is kept in family
jars. 	
	WHY do women talk less in February than
in any other month?  Because it is the short-
est month in the year.
	A CALIFORNIA navy-yard clerk has in-
vented a paper cravat. He evidently hails
from Con-neck-tie-cut.—N.Y. World.
	"AM I not a little pale?" inquired a lady,
who was short and corpulent, of a crusty
old bachelor. "You look more like a big
tub," was the blunt reply.
	NOTHING will sooner tempt a bachelor to
abandon his resolutions to marry than to
sleep in the adjoining room to a young
couple with collicky baby.
	JOSH Billings says, "If yu are going to
giv a man enny thing giv it tu him cheer-
fully, and quick, dont make him git down
on his kneeze in front ov yu, nnd, listen to
the 10 commandments, and then give him
five cents."
	TWO farmers were recently heard in one
of the Wilton stores trading hens. One
would trade for 37 1/2 cents, and the other for
38 bents. Having talked about an hour one
of them declared he would not trade at 38
cents any way, for the hen was not of a
right build to lay well.
	A MAN attracted attention in Troy by his
queer demeanor. He seemed to see something
interesting in the buttons on ladies' dresses,
and in several cases was impertinent in his
close examinations. Finally he found a dress
from which a button was gone. He seized
the wearer, pulled from his pocket a button,
and compared it with those left on the
dress. It matched. She was his prisoner.
He was a detective and she had stolen the
dress.
	WILL S. Hays, the song maker, tells this
story in the Louisville Courier Journal: In
the barber shop of the Metropolitan Hotel,
in that city, he saw a tall rough looking man
leaning against the wall. A dandy came
in, took off his hat and coat, and coolly
handed them to the stranger, whom he
mistook for a barber. The stranger as coolly
hung them on a peg, and when the dandy
said, "Trim my hair," he pointed to a chair.
The encircling of the neck with a towel, and
the preliminary flourish of the shears, were
barber-like, but when the dandy felt the
hair being cropped close to the scalp, he
leaped from the chair and ran to the mirror.
"What have you done?" he shouted in de-
monstrated wrath. "Well," replied the
stranger, still cool, "you said cut it, and I
wasn't going to refuse a little favor like
that, nor make a half-way job of  it, neith-
er."


﻿Remember.—Take, heart, all who toil;
all youth in humble situations, all in ad-
verse circumstances, and those who labor
unappreciated. If it be but to drive the
plough, strive to do it well; if only to cut
bolts, make good ones; or blow the bellows,
keep the iron hot. It is attention to business
that lifts the feet higher up on the ladder.


O!	Good God, please make poor Mamma
Well!” prayed little Georgie Winslow, as he
knelt beside his mother’s bed in the sick
chamber. Georgie did not know that it was
already well with his mother, that the dear
Lord had allowed her to enter the beautiful
spirit home. But the lady who describes
the scene, says it was one of melting solem-
nity.


