HOW TO TREAT THE LITTLE ONES.

	The baby's night-gown should be white
flannel.  The red flannel many mothers
fancy may poison its skin. The old-time
red dies were well enough but the present
reds are all poisonous and should not be worn
next to the skin by either old or young.
They are particularly mischievous to the
delicate skin of our young people. All of
the modern dyes are poisonous. If there are
any exceptions I have not been able to learn
the fact, although I have taken pains to
question those who are engaged in the dye-
ing business. The little ones should have
white flannel next  their skin day and night.
It is the only proper material to place next
the skin of any human being day or night,
no matter in what climate or at what season
of the year.
	Perhaps I ought to add that the superior-
ity of flannel is greater during the summer
than during the winter. In the hottest
weather a single thickness of flannel for a
night-gown will give the baby abundant
protection, whereas if it wears cotton next
to the skin it is soon wet with perspiration
and then there must be two or three more
thicknesses over it to furnish the protection
against a breeze which a single thickness of
flannel next the skin could afford. Our lit-
tle people should have their night-dresses
made with drawers closed at the bottom.
With this dress and lying upon a fresh straw
pillow, with the same for the little head and
sleeping in a little room, the small shaver
will have a chance, even in the hottest sea-
son, to not only sleep sweetly, but to grow.
Besides these and other considerations
which I will not name the woolen dress
serves, by its mechanical irritation, to
keep up a better circulation in the skin.
	Don't rock them. Don't rock them either
in crib or chair. The motion is an un-
healthy one. Try it yourself! Rock stead-
ily for half an hour and see how you feel.
I am glad that rockers are going out of
fashion. They have injured thousands of
our little people.
	Don't push them backward. Many adults
can't ride backward in the cars or in a car-
riage. When you have your little chap out
for a ride in his little carriage don't push
him backward. I have often noticed the
little passengers as they were jolted along
backward, off one stone and up another,
turning their eyes this way and that in a
painfully-bewildered way. The only avenue
to their souls is that through their eyes.
Pray don't set that all topsy-turvy.
	Don't churn its brains. Don't bounce it
on your knee or give it that great toss up
and down in your hands. No one but a
first class tumbler can stand such nonsense.
How many fatal diseases of the head have
originated in this common practice of the
nursery must have been very large. And I
have no doubt that a still greater number
must have been hurt who have contrived to
survive the stupid blunder.
	If you think your baby likes exercise rub
and knead its little naked body gently, but
thoroughly, morning and evening. This
will do wonders in giving the little fellow
not only much from your vital magnetism,
but will contribute to its circulation and
the activity of its abdominal viscera.—Dio
Lewis.


IT is better to run in old clothes than to
run in debt.

	A LITTLE girl watching the balloon ascen-
sion at Lewiston, Me., exclaimed, "Mamma,
I shouldn't think God would like to have
that man go up to heaven alive."


