			    LOCAL.
      Our city beaux and belles are happy now,
over the excitement of St. Valentine's day
......Hon. S. B. Axtell arrived in this city,
to take up his abode as Governor of Utah,
on Tuesday, the 2nd inst......Sexton Taylor
reports forty-one interments for the month
of January......Presidents Young and Smith
are expected to be in this city from St.
George, on or about the 20th inst.......Miss
Katherine Rogers, a neat and attractive ac-
tress, lately filled a short engagement at
the Salt Lake Theatre......Several grand
balls are announced to take place on Wash-
ington’s birthday.	
			POLITICAL. 
    Prominent Englishmen are of the opinion
that a great war is soon to commence in Eu-
rope......Ex-President Andrew Johnson has
been elected to the United States Senate
from Tennessee........King Alfonzo, of Spain,
is reported to participate in the opperations
of his troops in their attacks upon the Carl-
ists......A colored Civil Rights league de-
mand the passage of a bill admitting negroes
to all schools, hotels, public conveyances &c.
......A bill has passed the Senate appropriat-
ing twenty-five thousand dollars to defray
the expenses of King Kalakaua's visit......
The Hawaiian reciprocity treaty, with the
United States, is to be ratified within eigh-
teen months, and will remain in force seven
years......There is talk of an extra session of
the present congress.
			PERSONAL.
    The Emperor of China is dead and the
Empress overcome with grief has commit-
ted suicide......Garibaldi was the recipient
of a banquet given by the English and
American residents of Rome, on the 4th
inst......The Marquis of Hartington has been
chosen leader of the British liberals......The
poet Longfellow has been seriously ill......
Samuel F. Hersey, Congressman from Maine
is dead......Miss Sanglli, the favorite dancer
of Vienna is said to be fat......Miss Dolores
Drummond is the New Australian tragedi-
enne......The new speaker of the Missouri
House of Representatives, Mr. Benton G.
Boone, is a grandson of Daniel Boone......
Prince Philip, Duke of Saxony has married
Princess Louise of Belgium......Prince Bis-
marck is suffering from a nervous affection,
and is said to have concluded to retire from
public life.
			GENERAL.
    Last year, one hundred and seventy-six
persons died who were connected with the
stage......The Seine has overflowed its banks
and flooded the low lands around Paris......
Four schooners were recently blown ashore
at San Francisco......In Pennsylvania the
coal mining is generally suspended......The
Canadian canals are to be deepened......Lon-
don has a new musical periodical entitled
"The First Fiddle"......At Ghent, Columbia
Co., it is reported that the small pox is so
prevalent the railway trains do not stop
there......Darfour, of Africa has been an-
nexed to Egypt......The successor to the
Chinese throne has already been decided
upon.


﻿Mis Carrie S. Burnham, who has been
studying law for three years in Philadelphia,
presented her application before the Board
of Lawyers of that city the other day, for
the usual examination and admission to the
bar. The board declined to receive her ap-
plication, as they could find no precedent for
it, but promised to lay the matter before
the court.


