	       NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE LAW requires, that railroad compa-
nies shall pay to the government, five per
cent of their net earnings. It appears that
the Union Pacific railroad companies have
not acted in conformity with the law in this
respect, in consequence of which suits have
been commenced against them.
	PEOREA, ILLINOIS, has the honor of having
lately elected the first woman Bank Direct-
or in this country. She is Lydia Bradley,
a widow and very wealthy. Her new posi-
tion will probably prove her to be also the
possessor of more honesty than many of her
gentlemen predecessors who have held like
offices of trust.
	OF THE convicts who have entered the
New Hampshire State Prison during a num-
ber of years, the gentleman employed as
Chaplin, states that only about one in six
could read or write. Not one from any
learned profession has ever been an inmate
of the prison. This is but one instance in
favor of education; but the world has grown
wise, and ignorance is now almost univer-
sally considered the chief cause of crime.
	THE POOR in New York and "what is to
become of them," has grown into a prob-
lem of astounding magnitude. There are
said to be one hundred and seventy-nine
thousand people living in two thousand sev-
en hundred tenements, out of employment,
and existing entirely by the aid they re-
ceive from public and private charity. And
the horrors of this wretched pauperism in-
crease daily. Can the increase of crime in
New York be wondered at?
	THE LOUISIANA affair, of which so much
has been said, and much more might be
said—arising from the recent occurrence of
the State's Governor marching a body of
U. S. Militia into the Legislative hall, in
New Orleans, to settle embarrassing ques-
tions by force of arms instead of by force of
argument—will stand as a precedente in the
annals of American history. Whether the
lesson it teaches will prove to be one of
benefit to the nation or otherwise, time
muse decide.
	WHAT THE Mormon women really think
about polygamy, many curious people are
anxiously striving to ascertain. The follow-
ing extract from a letter written at Grand
Rapids, Jan. 29th, from a prominent lady
of this city, now visiting friends in the east,
shows what her opinions upon the vexed
question are, after having looked into social
circles abroad. It also evinces that other
reflecting women, as well as those connected
with the church, are partially awakening to
a sense of the necessity for some change to
take place, that a decisive reform may be
wrought in society. The lady writes: "I
have had many talks with women about our
system of marriage, and have found that I
am listened to with profound attention. I
am surprised at the little amount of preju-
dice that exists among intelligent women.
They realize to some extent that something
must be done to reconstruct society. Crime
is on the increase. There have been several
cases of scandal here, two since I came,
among the first people. Purity of life is
scarcely to be found. The eye closing pro-

[Column 2]
cess is resorted to in most families. I keep
both eyes open and my lips closed. My
heart aches to see the condition of women
and children. Monogomy is a curse to any
nation. I long for freedom for my country
women.”


[Column 1]
