	FROM THE HERALD OF HEALTH.

	HOW TO AVOID COLDS.—Is there any
method of living by which one can avoid
colds and coughs in winter and spring?
	ANS.—Oh yes. These ailments may be
largely avoided by proper care. The follow-
ing hints will perhaps serve you. Never
wear wet clothes after active muscular ex-
ertion has ceased, but change them at once;
always meet the loss of body heat by warm
fluids and dry clothes; avoid long sustained
loss of heat which is not counteracted by
increased production of heat; increase the
tonicity of the vessels of the skin by cold
baths, so educating them to contract readily
on exposure; avoid too warm and debilita-
ting rooms and temperatures; take especial
care against too great loss of heat when the
skin is glowing, and to prevent the inspira-
tion of cold air by the mouth by some pro-
tecting agent, as a respirator. We can
readily understand how a respirator should
be an effective protection against winter
bronchitis in those so disposed. 
	PRECAUTION AGAINST INFECTION.—When
one watches  the sick who have such
diseases as are likely to be spread, what
precautions are to be taken to prevents the
spread of the disease from one person to
another?
	ANS.—1, Be careful to have the air of the 
sick-room pure and frequently changed.   2, 
See that all the secretions are disinfected
properly.  3, Have the Patient properly

[Column 2]
﻿bathed. The bath swallows up much poi- 
sonous matter, and a little carbolic acid in it
will be advantageous. 4, Never eat, drink, 
or sleep in the sick room, or go into it if not
needed; or go in when tired, and exhaus-
ted, or ill, or hungry.
	SCURFY HEAD.—Will you be kind enough
inform me what is good for scurf in the
head?
	ANS.—Have your head thoroughly cleaned
every week, and wear your hair short, so
the light and air can get in and the scurf
get out. It is no wonder that so many
complain of scurfy heads
	TO WARM COLD FEET.—What would
you propose to keep the feet warm, when one
has always kept their lower limbs well
clothed, and still suffers from cold feet?
	ANS.—The feet remedies are hot footbaths
at night, exercise of the feet, and care to
have the blood supplied with good food.
	CODDLING CHILDREN.—Is it wise to cod-
dle, or tenderly rear our children?
	ANS.—Yes, if you want to develop hot-
house men and women from them; other-
wise, no. To coddle means to keep in-doors
in all but fine weather, to dress too warmly
in mild weather, to feed on nicknacks, and
keep the breath of heaven from touching.
A hot-house exotic child is never safe from
the slightest changes, whereas a child accus-
tomed to cold, rarely takes cold.
	THREAD WORMS.—Please tell me what
will cure thread worms, which are  preva-
lent among children.
	ANS.—Feed them on clean, plain, whole-
some food; plenty of brown bread and milk,
and fruit. These worms do not thrive on
fruit.
	MARBLE-TOP STANDS.—Are marble-top
stands and tables healthy for invalids who
work or write near them?
	ANS.—No. They are cold, and rapidly
absorb the heat and vitality of the body,
robbing it of its life. We have heard of
one invalid whom the doctor could not cure,
till one day he noticed she used a marble
stand, and suspected it had something to do
with her ill health. So he forbade her
touching it. Soon she was cured. We
know healthy people who feel the twinges
of pain in a shoulder by sitting near one.
They are elegant articles of furniture: but
unhealthy for all that.
	CITY VS. COUNTRY CHILDREN.—Why are
city children more precocious than coutry
children?
	ANS.—Because there is more in a city to
call into exercise the brain, and less to de-
velop the body.  The rustic youth looks and
acts dull by the side of the city boy; but at
middle age he is generally the better man,
for the city youth expends his nerve force,
while the country youth store his up for fu-
ture use. The precocity of the city youth
should be retarded.  Keep them away from
balls, parties, theatres, evening amusements.
Send them to the country often. Give them
a year on a farm now and then, or teach
them a trade.
	HARDENING CHILDREN.—If children are
hardened, are not all the feeble ones killed?
	ANS.—They should not all be hardened
alike, but brought up as near as possible to
their needs.  Let the feeble ones be gently
but gradually hardened, not suddenly ex-
posed to what may kill them.  The harden-
ing process, if properly applied, will injure
none, but, on the contrary, may be made
useful to the most feeble.


