TRUTH AND LIBERTY.

	The most elevating and ennobling heri-
tage that God has vouchsafed to man, is en-
shrined in Truth and Liberty.  When the
mighty God of battles goes forth to combat
with falsehood and error, Truth is His
strongest weapon, and knowledge his great-
est power; Truth was revealed to man; and
lo the light of immortality broke through
the starless gloom, and made it the portal
of eternal day: that day whon the light of
revelation inspired the noble patriots that
framed the Constitution of this once glori-
ious American Republic.  Where now
are those veteran Fathers, where now is
that freedom of which the American peo-
ple have so long boasted? Is it found in our
lovely Deseret, or in New Orleans where
the mighty conflict for liberty cost the no-
blest blood of our veteran Fathers who wil-
lingly fought and died, to bequeath to their
posterity the richest legacy ever bestowed
upon man?  To the standard of Liberty,
all nations have looked with a fond hope to
find a home where freedom and equal rights
could be enjoyed by the poor and oppressed
who would come and maintain the Consti-
tion.  Shall it ever be said of the Godess
of Liberty whose proud head has been
reared by the shedding of the blood of our
veteran Fathers, that she had cause to
mourn and bow the head in shame or bathe
her cheeks in tears, that her sacred name
has been desecrated by political dema-
gogues and office seeking carpet baggers,
who love not our Country's honor but their
own aggrandisement?  God forbid!  Let every
true American citizen join in one universal
answer, no! until that sacred name LIBERTY
—shall be honored and heard to reverberate
from the Atlantic in the east to the Pacific
in the west and be re-echoed in cries of Lib-
erty from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico,
until every State and Territory shall unite
in the one great clause in the nation's con-
stitution.  "All men are born free and equal
and have the right to serve God according
to the dictates of their own consciences."
	Where is there another nation under the
whole heavens in which the Kingdom of
God could have been organized and set up,
without violating the laws of the land?
No where!  The immortal Washington, the
Father of his country, was inspired by the
spirit of truth, to raise the standard of lib-
erty where truth could exist, and find a
home in the hearts of the children of men;
to shine forth in power and splendor, until
"darkness and error shall flee away like the
mists of the morning before the noonday
sun.  Until it shall no more be said that
darkness covers the earth and gross dark-
ness the minds of the people." But peace
shall flow like a river and the knowledge of
God shall cover the earth as the waters do
the great deep.  And men shall beat their
swords into ploughshares and their spears
into pruning hooks; and the nations shall
learn war no more.  This is the mission of
Truth and Liberty, so beautifully illustrated
by the poet, P. P. Pratt, in the "Standard
of Zion."
	"The white flag so rare, still floating in air,
Proclaims 'mid the mountains that peace is now there."
	May every true patriot and friend of lib-
erty proclaim against any violation of their
constitutional rights, until "peace on earth,
and good will towards man," shall be added
to truth and liberty, and hasten the day
when the righteous shall rule.  For "when
the wicked rule, the people mourn."
							W. E.


WHEN does water resemble a gymnast?
—When it makes a spring.


