		HOUSEHOLD HINTS

	How to Fry Chicken.—The best fried chickens
are thus prepared:  The chickens are killed, scalded,
picked and washed out cleanly in water, then quar-
tered and thrown into boiling butter.  In a few
minutes they are done brown, and are then to be
removed and served up hot and dry, not put into
grease again.  In this way the foul is "tender as
chicken,” and is a great delicacy.  If you don't
believe it, try it, and if you do belive it, try it.
     Crusted Apple Pudding—Pare, core and stew
slightly, two quarts of tart, mellow apples, and
place them in a pudding-dish; then, to one and a
half pints of wheatmeal, add one gill of currants,
and boiling water enough to make a dough, stirring
lightly until mixed; roll it out one-third of an
inch thick, and spread over the apples.  Bake it
in a quick oven forty or fifty minutes, take out, re-
verse on a hot plate, mash the apples with a spoon,
and sweeten, if desired; cut in pieces like a pie,
and serve warm, with some fruit sauce.
	The Housewife's Table.—The following is a very
valuable housewife's table, by means of which,
persons not having scales and weights at hand may
readily measure the article wanted to form any
recipe without the trouble of weighing, allowance
to be made for an extraordinary dryness or mois-
ture of the article weighed or measured:
	Wheat flour, one pound is one quart.
	Indian meal, 1 pound, 2 ounces are one quart.
	Butter, when soft, 1 pound is 1 quart,
	Loaf sugar broken, 1 pound is 1 quart
	White sugar, powdered, 1 pound 1 ounce are 1
	quart. 
	Best brown sugar, 1 pound 2 ounces are 1 quart.
	Ten eggs are 1 pound. 

[Column 2]
	Dio Lewis's Receipt for a Bed.—Of the eight
pounds which a man eats and drinks in a day it is
thought that no less than five pounds leave his body
through the skin.  And of these five pounds a 
considerable percentage escapes during the night
while he is in bed.  The larger part of this is wa-
ter, but in addition there is much effete and poison-
ous matter.  This, being in great part gaseous in
form, permeates every part of the bed.  Thus all
parts of the bed—mattresses, blankets, as well as
sheets—soon become foul, and need purification.
The mattress needs this renovation quite as much
as the sheets.  To allow the sheets to be used with-
out washing or changing three or six months would
be regarded as bad housekeeping, but I insist, if a
thin sheet can absorb enough of these poisonous
excretions of the body to make it unfit for use in a 
few days, a thick mattress, which can absorb and 
retain a thousand times as much of the poisonous
excretions needs to be purified as often certainly
as once in three months.  A sheet can be washed.
A mattress cannot be renovated in this way.  In-
deed, there is no other way of cleaning a mattress
but by steaming it or picking it to pieces, and thus
in fragments exposing it to the direct rays of the
sun. As these processes are scarcely practicable
with any of the ordinary mattresses, I am decided-
ly of the opinion that the good, old fashioned straw
bed, which can every three months be exchanged
for fresh straw and the tick washed, is the sweet-
est and healthiest of beds.  If, in the winter sea-
son, the porousness of the straw bed makes it a
little uncomfortable, spread over it a comforter or
two woolen blankets, which should be washed as
often as every two weeks.  With this arrangement,
if you wash all the bed-covering as often as once in
one or two weeks, you will have a delightful,
healthy bed.  Now, if you leave the bed to air
with open windows during the day, and not make
it up for the night before evening, you will have
added greatly to the sweetness of your rest and in
consequence to the tone of your health.  I heartily
wish this good change could be everywhere intro-
duced.  Only those who have thus attended to this
important matter can judge of its influence on the
general health and spirits.


[Column 1]
