WOMAN’S RECORD. 

	MRS. McDonald of Calais, Me., went rid-
ing the other night, and wrapped her little
baby so closely it was smothered to death.
	JENNIE June says in her last letter: "It
is no longer a secret that Miss Anna Dick-
inson has left the platform and is studying
for the stage."
	MRS. Jamieson Livingstone, who had
lived through a century, and had been a ser-
vant to Sir Walter Scott, died recently, near
Glasgow, Scotland.
	MISS Helen M. Knowlton edits the Fine
Art department of  "Old and New," and will
hereafter occupy a prominent place in that
magazine.
	MRS. Amelia Robbins, wife of Daniel
Robbins of Conway, on the 3rd of February,
1873, gave birth to three daughters; and on
the 25th of November, 1874, she gave birth
to a son. So in 21 months four young Rob-
bins were added to the nest.
	MISS Harriet K. Hunt, M. D., who died
recently in Boston, began the practice of
medicine forty years ago, at the age of
twenty-nine.  She was the pioneer woman
doctor, and achieved a successful and satis-
factory practice.
	A LETTER from Honesdale, Pa., states
that a young woman named Crissie Haeker,
the daughter of a wealthy farmer at White
Valley, on Wednesday, under religious fa-
naticism, built an altar, and laid herself
thereon and burned herself to death.
	MADAME Emma Seiler, a German lady
residing in Philadelphia, has, since the
publication of her work entitled, "The
Voice in Singing" (1869), been recognized
as a competent authority on the subject, to
the study of which she has long devoted
herself.
	MRS. Elizabeth Weston of Detroit, aged
76, recently made a cotton shirt for her hus-
band by hand in nine hours, into which she
put eleven thousand and nine hundred
stitches, threading her needles herself, all of
which she accomplished without the aid of 
spectcles.
	MRS. Celman, isster of the late John Stu-
art Mill, recently presided at a meeting of
tailoresses in Bristol, England, and in the
course of her address, said: "For many
years she had taken a very great interest in
working men and women, and when she
saw how much had been obtained by men
as the result of combination, how their
hours of labor had been reduced and their
wages increased, she had faith that if the
women of England would only unite to-
gether, they would in a very short time ma-
terially alter their present condition."


