FAITH.

	What is faith? We are told it is an as
surance of things not seen but hoped for,
and of which we we have no certain knowl-
edge.
	It seems to me, that I cannot better il-
lustrate faith, than by narrating the follow-
ing story, or incident, which came under
my observation.
	A lady whose husband had failed in busi-
ness, and left her home to go and seek an
opening in another place, found herself left
alone with four or five children to support
with her own hands. After some weeks of
hard struggling and very short fare, she
arose one morning and found there was
neither bite nor sup in the nouse to give her
hungry little ones. The delicate nine year
old  girl busied herself in tidying up the
room, while the mother whose heart was
sad and heavy, was dressing the other child-
ren. But she said to her daughter. "You
had better fill the tea kettle, and set the ta-
ble for breakfast." The child looked the
surprise she felt as she answered, "Why,
mother, there is no bread nor anything else
for breakfast!" Never mind my child, set
the table, God will provide for us." When
it was done, the mother called her children
around her, and knelt for the usual morning
prayers, and poured out her soul in supplica-
tion to the giver of all good; our Father in
Heaven. She arose with a calmer light in
her eyes. Then went to her drawer an-
took out a small roll of white, soft, cotton
and linen rags, and sent her little girl
with them to the store to sell, with instruc-
tions what to do with the money which she
should get for the rags.
	The child slipped away on the errand,
and received much more than expected.
She ran to the grocer's and bought tea, su-
gar, and butter. She then took the remain-
ing part to the baker and holding it out in


her little hand said; “Please Sir, will you
send mother all the bread you can for this?”
The baker who was a kind man, and knew
the child said, "Has your father not come
home?” “No sir.” “Then your mother is
in a strait, ha? Well hold up your apron."
And he loaded the child with bread and
cakes till she could hardly stagger under it.
	“When the child got into the house the
faithful mother wept tears of joy, and her
heart was filled with thankfulness to that
God whose Son hath said; “God feeds the
ravens, and will He not feed you, O ye of
little faith.
					EMMA NYE BINGHAM.
	Ogden.


For the EXPONENT.
		RESPECT THE CHILDREN'S 
		       FEELINGS.
	“Auntie, do big folks never do anything
that they need to be scolded for?” asked a
mischievous little girl.
	"Certainly they do, just as much as little
folks," was the reply.
	"Well why don’t they get scolded then?
no one ever speaks cross to you," observed
the child.
	"Not because I do not deserve it perhaps,
but that people regard my feelings," said
her Aunt.
	"Eh! I wish I could have my feelings re-
garded," answered the little victim of cen-
sure.
	And who blames her for thinking so?
Her Aunt did not, but while telling the
child she must learn to do as nearly as possi-
ble as she was told, by those who had a
right to direct her, some new ideas crossed
her mind.
	Why are children spoken so sharply to,
often for the most trivial offenses? Are
not their feelings as acute as those of olderpeople, and should they not be as carefully
regarded?							L.


