WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			A VISION.
	Being a firm believer in the Bible, and
the announcement that Joseph Smith saw
and conversed with angels, as did most of
the ancient prophets and apostles since the
world began; and believing also, that it was
my peculiar privilege to enjoy like gifts,
(for this had been prophesied upon my head
by the elders of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, who had ministered
unto me in sickness,) and that the glory of
God should be revealed unto me, I began to
hunger and thirst exceedingly after the
great and glorious privilege of beholding a
heavenly vision of angels, sent from the
presence of God, and to be filled with the
Holy Ghost, as were the ancients. There-
fore I began to devote every spare moment
to prayer, and to the reading of the holy
scriptures, feasting on the teachings of Je-
sus and the prophets, and the principles of
eternal life, almost to the exclusion of all
external surroundings. On the afternoon of
the 21st of February, 1867, while telling
my desires to an elder of this Church, the
spirit of prophecy immediately fell upon
him, and he began to prophesy that the ful-
filling of my great desires was at hand, and
that that night should not pass away till I
should be satiated by conversing with an-
gels. And as he spoke forth by the Spirit
of God, it fell upon me like a clap of light-
ning. This was at 5 p. m. About 7 p.
m. I retired to bed, and began engaging in
mighty prayer for the promised blessing,
for I had proved this man of God to be in-
deed a prophet. He had prophesied truly
upon me before, and the renovating power
of God was even now proving his words to
be true, pouring down upon me like a pillar
of fire, until it seemed as if every hair of
my head would be consumed by it. While
all my body was as if it burned in a furnace
and every pore sweat until I was dripping
wet, and I began to tremble and quake, my
body was expanded till I seemed to be light-
er than a feather and did not feel the
bed clothes, but rather seemed to be leaving
them for mid air, and floating toward heaven
in the pillar of fire which enveloped me.
With all the energy of my soul, I continued to
pray steadfastly without ceasing, that I
might have faith not only to feel this inef-
fable paradise, but to see the angels of God
face to face, and thereby drink of its ful-
ness, as far as is allowed to mortals. As a
starving man’s appetite is whetted by a
pitiful morsel, so was mine aggravated by
this heavenly sensation. After about five
hours of this most heavenly baptism of fire,
I dozed off and dreamed that the angels
were at my bedside ready to converse with
me, and that I must pray for still greater
courage to behold them in the glory that
surrounded them, while light and peace inef-
fable shone upon me as a precursor to their
mighty presence. I woke up, with a shock
like lightning to my whole system, far more
powerful than anything I had yet experi-
enced. The room was filled with consuming
flames, as a rushing, mighty wind, and a
pillar of fire far above the brightness of the
noonday sun, shining with clear, transpar-
ent brilliancy, lit upon me, knocking me
dumb and immovable, as it caught me up
into a sitting posture. As I gazed mute
and helpless toward heaven, in the midst of
the light, just beneath the ceiling, I saw
two immortal beings. Their countenances
transcended the meridian sun, as stopping
in their descent they smiled upon me. They
then continued their dove like, gentle and
circular descent, round and round, lower and
lower, keeping an exact distance from each
other—as we have seen swallows keep won

[Column 2]
derful and exact proximity in following
each other in their inimitable flights—till
they had descended within a foot or two
above me. They then rested their chins
upon their right hands and smiled again.
	Oh! fallen, void and empty language,
what word hast thou to describe the immor-
tal beauty of an angel’s smile?
	I now beheld the full and lightning like
appearance of their countenances. On their
heads were crowns of pure gold like trans-
parent glass, inlaid with immortal stones of
every conceivable color higher and of more
exceedingly fine workmanship in front than
at the sides. They were dressed in robes
of most exquisite whiteness and texture of
pure linen, falling gentle undulating folds,
to their ankles, which, with their feet were
perfectly bare, as were also their hands and
arms to the elbows, excepting at the wrists,
which were encircled with bracelets of pur-
est gold, studded with the most precious
stones. Not a speck or mote was upon their
countenances, which were perfectly trans-
parent—I could see through their faces
plainly as through a window. To notice all
this consumed but a short time, perhaps
half a minute. One of them began speak-
ing to me.
	But Oh! who can describe the voice?
Softer than the echoes of a whisper, sweeter
than undulating music and more refined than
paradisical zephyrs, his words fell upon my
adoring soul and dispelled every fear. ’Twas,
the voice of an Angel from Glory, never,
never to be forgotten!
	He spoke four words to me, which pierced
as living fire and I was as one dead before
him, and shrank, for from his eyes issued
flames of living fire, and his very feet burned
with flames as if in a furnace. I then looked
at the other angel and saw that it was a fe-
male. She spoke and told me her name.
	The first did not tell me his name, but
spoke of the glory that I should enjoy after
my afflictions in this world were over. Gaz-
ing at each of them alternately, I asked if
they were married. The woman answered
“No. There is no marrying or giving in
marriage in heaven, but it must be done on
the earth.” When she had said this, I was
dumb and could not endure their presence
longer. Then she touched the two first fin-
gers on my right hand, and gave them three
gentle pressures, each touch being like death,
and the third was death itself, or its equiv-
alent for in a moment—in the twinkling of
an eye—I was caught up into heaven, into
a state of perfect rest and peace, and my
senses swam in an estacy of indescribable
happiness, in sea of ineffable, seraphic
bliss. Whether in the body or out I know,
not. But the things unutterable that passed
in this paradise, were taken from me at the
return of consciousness to earthly things,
when they seemed like the shining frag-
ments of a gorgeous vision, fast fading
from my view. Perhaps I was in that state
half an hour.
	The next change I remember, I was again
gazing steadfastly at the two angels, from
whose countenances I took not my eyes for
a moment, and upon whom I could now
look without pain or fear. As I was thus
gazing and adoring them, desiring them to
tarry and converse, I saw that the light was
centering immediately around their persons;
then I knew intuitively they were going to
leave me. And as I now gazed steadfastly,
worshipping, my desires being very intense
that they should tarry a little longer—with
the velocity of lightening a cloud over-
shadowed them that I could not behold
them, though they moved not to the right
nor to the left. The room was dark, and for

[Column 3]
a moment only I was conscious. For so
great was the power of God upon me, that
I fell into unconsciousness immediately, as if
a catapult had struck me. The next I re-
membered was the most delightful music,
chanted by ten thousand times ten thousand
voices, in praise to God, the faintest echo of
which can not be forgotten to the end of
time, and when recalled, startles my whole
senses with delight and adoration.
	Receding and still receding, growing
fainter and fainter, ascending and still as-
cending until the faintest echoes died away,
in the dim distance of mid heaven, it was
lost to my ear. And now the second time,
consciousness of where I was dawned upon
me, and the room was dark. I lay as one
dead, without the power to stir a muscle or
move a limb for about three hours. At the
end of which time I began to be able to stir
my fingers and toes, and finally had power
to turn from my back on to my side. My
night clothes were as wet with perspiration 
as if I had been swimming. By day light
I was able to get up and dress myself, but
had to sit still all the forenoon, for I was still
consumed as in a pillar of fire. And I felt
so light in body for a week after, that I was
half unconscious whether or not my feet 
touched the earth in walking.
	The vision began about midnight and
must have ceased between one and two
o’clock, on the morning of the 22nd of Feb-
ruary, which is Washintong’s birthday.
	All glory and honor and blessing and pow-
er and might be unto the Father, and to His
holy child Jesus, and the Holy Ghost, who
are one God, for ever and evers worlds with-
out end. Amen.	    				A.P.


