ROWING AGAINST THE STREAM.

	"'Tis not in mortals, to command respect: 	
	But we'll do more, "MY SISTERS, "we'll deserve it."
	Every day those who are stepping forward in
the march of improvement, with a determina-
tion to succeed and accomplish something cred-
itable and exceedingly desirable for woman,
are made painfully aware, by the current of op-
position which pours in upon them from all
sides, that they are literally rowing against the
stream.  Generation after generation have
yielded the palm in favor of man's superior in-
telligence, until it has become a time-honored,
authenticated, and established positivism, "im-
mutable as the laws of the Medes and Persians;"
and although there have been here and there,
striking specimens of a higher order of wo-
man's intellect than the general standard, yet
these are looked upon as exceptional digres-
sions, and not as implying any particular talent
or ability in the sex itself.
	Because there are in this wide field of labor,
those who are not genuine in their feelings and
desires, or labor under mistaken views of what
they themselves are most anxious to accom-
plish, does it prove that all are inadequate or 
inefficient?  Does the matter so stand with the
opposite sex?  Take the question home, gentle-
men. I appeal to you who labor for the ad-
vancement of true knowledge; put yourselves
in our places, equalize the thing. Are there
not those among you, who are not genuine co-
workers for the good of humanity, notwith-
standing their professions to the contrary?
Do they not do more harm than good to your
cause, even though they are zealous and fired
with enthusiasm?  And yet you would judge
us as a class, by a rule which you would re-
fuse to have applied to yourselves.


If a woman dares to stand up in public and
express her ideas, (even before her own sex) or
if she happens to differ in point of opinion
 from her husband, father, or brother, she is at
once set down as a radical. Or as belonging to
a certain “stripe of female characters,” (a term
I have heard,) who ransack the country, and
in open defiance of all the laws of propriety,
good-breeding, and modesty make for them-
 selves a standard of morality; endeavoring to
gain influence by imposing upon the unsophis-
ticated and unwary. Their strongest hold lies
with the opposite sex, who in this respect seem
to be the weaker, instead of the stronger na-
ture. They are not elevating, but degrading
womanhood. Now, with such we have no fel-
lowship, or kindred association; our cause is
one totally dissimilar in all respects. We would
represent our sex, truthfully and in an unpreju-
dicial manner. That we are more or less in
 willing bondage, we do not attempt to deny;
but it is the force of habit, of long-continued
custom, of tradition, of common and general
education; and as Shakespeare says, “A cus-
tom more honored in the breach than in the
observance.”
    Why are women slaves to fashion and style!
Men say to shine as “bright particular stars”
in the firmament of society, to excel in point
of attraction, to outdo their neighbors. But
after all, is it not to gain the admiration and
favor of the opposite sex, to captivate their
eyes or win their hearts?—which are far more
susceptible to outside attractions, than to any
genuine worth. It is proverbial that men do
not choose intellectual women for wives. They
consider them very appropriate for old maids;
this helps them to bear their CRUEL lot with a
better degree of serenity; gives them occupa-
tion in place of family cares. But for domestic
home companions—Oh no!
	The assertion is widely circulated, among
the “fair sex,” that the more shrewd, design-
ing, artful, insinuating and intriguing a woman
is, the better chance she stands of filling that
exclusive place in a husband’s affections, which
every wife has a right to expect. Does this en-
courage innocence, purity, elevation of charac-
ter, loftiness of purpose, or does it engender
virtue?
	Does not this erroneous state of things call
aloud for reform? And ought not those to be
commended, who are willing to launch forth
upon the stream of public opinion, conscious of
the justness of their cause; and with unceasing
and unhesitating energy and perseverance, row
against the stream; fearless of the storms they
must encounter, or the fierce surging of the
angry waves of popularity? If it were possible
to awaken each one to her own individual need,
would there be any occasion to stand up and
advocate reform?

	"If every one would see to his own reformation,
	How very easily you might reform a nation.

	Here at home, among those who profess to
be Saints, is the very cruelest test of our sin-
cerity and integrity in the cause we have un-
dertaken. Sneers, reproaches, taunts from
those who ought to assist us in this very work.
They cannot, or will not see we are working
for an ultimate good, for a true and permanent
elevation of character, for an independence
through one's own exertions and real merit, for
the highest culture and refinement attainable,
and for that true distinction, which is worthy
the most entire devotion of purpose. They 
look upon us with suspicion, fancy we would
undermine their influence with the opposite
sex, as opposed to all cultivation of taste in
dress, which makes them the centre of attrac-
tion and the envied of their "set."
	But let woman seek intelligence from the

[Column 2]
ountain of all knowledge, let her be mentally
and spiritually qualified and competent to
choose a companion for herself, let her under-
stand her true position aud the duty she owes
to her Creator to fulfill the measure of her cre-
ation, and she will choose wisely. One equal
at least in all things, and if possible superior to
herself. Men who would have such compan-
ions must look beyond the outward adornments
of person; and the offspring of such a union
would be calculated to rise in the scale of hu-
man progression.
	If we believe what has been prophesied to
us, that our children should fill honored posi-
tions on the earth, should do a greater work
than their parents, we ought to seek by all the
means in our power, to prepare them for the
stations they are destined to fill; that they
may fill them with wisdom and true dignity.
	Through the industry and untiring efforts of
their parents—the hardy pioneers of this new
country—by the mercies of God, our young peo-
ple are enjoying means of acquiring knowledge
heretofore unknown among us as a people.
“Knowledge is power,” certainly, but if not
rightly applied may be a power for evil. To
understand how to direct in a proper channel
the knowledge acquired, to keep in perfect con-
formity with the laws of God, and train our-
selves so as to preserve a medium in all those
more potent influences; which predominate in
the world, at the present time, is the one point
most desirable, at this time, among our youth.
If they can not be aroused to the individual
need of relying upon God and trusting to the
guidance of His Holy Spirit, they are in danger
of following after their own devices and steep-
ing themselves in ease, luxury and self-indul-
gence.
	It is this work we are anxious to assist in. We
are opening, comparatively, a primary class,
but we shall move forward, and a broader field
ot action will open for definite work, in this
timely undertaking. There is abundant room
and occupation for all; and union will lighten
the labor effectually; therefore we call upon all
who are desirous to see our children better than
their contemporaries, to lend a helping hand in
this extensive enterprise of rowing against the
stream. And above all, let us first look into
our own hearts, and see wLether we are truly
and sincerely, working for our own emancipa-
tion from the thralldom of sin, evil passions
and tendencies; and remember,

					"Real glory
	Springs from the conquest of ourselves,
	And without that, the conqueror is nought
	But the first slave."
							B.B.
Salt Lake City, Feb. 9, 1875. 
						E.B. Well


