[WomansExponent | Vol29 | 1900 | January | Issue: 15 | Title: IN MEMORIAM. | Author: Unknown]

IN MEMORIAM. 
It would be utterly impossible even to 
attempt to do justice in words to so eminent 
a man and so true a Latter-day Saint as 
President George Q. Cannon; yet some ex-
pression we must give, some tribute we 
must pay to his memory and loving ser-
vice for humanity and the people of his 
own faith, so near and dear to him, and the 
cause for which he would willingly have 
laid down his own life; how faithfully he 
served thousands can and do bear witness.
A great and good man, a giant in intellectu-
al endowments, a pure-minded and chaste 
man, though he was reviled and persecuted 
for his belief in the principles which the 
world condemn. 
President Cannon was one of nature's 
noblemen, refined, sensitive, tender and 
true as steel, his whole life was a grand 
poem in itself, and one could truthfully 
say of him, as Shakespeare said of one of 
his heroes: 
"His life was gentle, and the elements 
So mixt in him, that nature might stand up.
And say to all the world,- This is a man." 
No doubt he inherited many of the 
sterling qualities of character, but he also 
cultivated those nobler traits and attributes
of mind and heart, that lift a man above the 
grosser elements of human nature 
bringing him nearer to the divine. To 
know President Cannon intimately was a 
sort of education in itself, and one could not 
but feel his power for good when in his 
presence. Men of the world with whom he 
was associated in business matters and his
colleagues in the Congress of the United 
States all realized and felt the great intellec-
tual power and maganimmity of this 
wonderful man among men. He was one 
of the staunchest and truest friends, not only 
to woman, but to woman's cause in the 
broad and liberal sense of emancipation and 
equal rights and privileges.
But he has gone from us to enter into a 
higher and holier state of existence. We 
shall see his face no more, nor hear his 
clear, penetrating, harmonious voice in our 
great public congregations and assemblies.
Gone to join the innumerable company of 
the redeemed upon the other side and has 
doubtless met his loved ones there, the 
wife of his youth, his little children who 
were taken away so young, his sons grown 
to manhood, who passed away when life 
seemed bright and full of promise; his 
mother whose death at sea was such a grief

[Column 2]
to him in his childhood; his father who 
died at a much earlier age than himself,
while sojourning in St. Louis, ere he had 
reached Nauvoo. Beside these dear ones 
he has met, we believe, Brigham Young,
his uncle, John Taylor, and Wilford
Woodruff, all of whom he labored with in 
the Gospel, and Joseph the Prophet, whom 
he knew and revered as the great leader of 
this dispensation, and hosts of Saints and 
brethren whome he knew and who loved 
and reverenced him.
Much as we may long for his presence,
even his family who loved him most and 
best, they cannot call him back, he has 
gone to the city John the revelator saw in 
vision.
"To the city set with jasper, having twelve founda-
tions fair,
Flashing from their jeweled splendor, every color
soft and rare. 
Twelve in number are its gateways—numbered by
the seer of old—
Every gate a pearl most lustrous—and its streets 
are paved with gold
In the midst in dazzling whiteness, lightens the 
eternal throne; 
From it flows the living water—round it gleams an 
emerald zone. Luscious fruits and balmy odors, healing leaves 
and cooling shade,
Either side the Life-tree sheddeth, by sweet storms 
of music swayed.
O, thou grand and templed city, seen by John in 
vision bright,
Glory-flooded, needing neither, sun by day nor 
moon by night.
Filled forever and forever by the shining light of
Him
Who redeemed the world and sitteth throned be-
tween the seraphim. 
Through thy lovely gates the nations, of the world
 in triumph stream,
Chanting praise above all praises--love of love 
their holy theme. 
They no more shall thirst or hunger, they no more 
with heat shall faint; 
Christ for tears shall give them gladness, blissful 
rest for sore complaint.
"Blessed they who do His bidding," cries the angel,
day and night,
They shall find abundant entrance—they shall
walk with Him in white." 
George Quayle Cannon was born in 
Liverpool, England, January 11, 1827.
His parents, George and Ann Quayle Can-
non, were natives of Peel, on the Isle of 
Man, but his ancestors came originally from 
the borders of Scotland. George Q. was 
the eldest of seven children; his sisters, 
Mary Alice and Ann, and his brothers,
Angus M. and David A. also a younger 
sister, Leonora, and half-sister, Elizabeth,
by his father's second marriage, after his 
mother's death, all survive him. He leaves 
a large family of his own, wives, children 
and grandchildren, to mourn his loss—to
them irreparable. 
President Cannon's life from his youth to 
the close was a busy one, filled with work 
grand, noble and inspiring, no matter how 
hard the way seemed, he always saw the 
light shining in darkness, it was the bright-
ness of his own happy, buoyant spirit. 
In Nauvoo Brother Cannon worked in 
the printing office of the Times and Seasons 
and Nauvoo Neighbor, there he learned the 
printing business. He was in the house-
hold of Elder John Taylor, whose wife was 
his father's sister. Under his hands 
George Q. was ordained an Elder, Febru-
ary 5, 1845, and the same day ordained a 
seventy. He traveled with the Saints in 
Winter Quarters, leaving Nauvoo at the 
time of the exodus, and crossed the plains 
in 1847 with his Uncle Taylor's company,
arriving in the valley October 3, of that 
year. In 1849 he was sent on a mission

[Column 3]
to California and endured great priva tions 
and in 1850 he was called with nine others 
to take a mission to the Sandwich Islands, 
where they landed December 12, 1850; not 
meeting with much success, most of the 
Elders decided to leave, but Brother Can-
non declared he would stay and preach to 
the natives if he had to remain alone. Four 
of the missionaries stayed with him, he 
learned the language by diligence and 
study and the gift of God, in a marvelously 
short time and was soon able to preach the 
Gospel to the natives in their own tongue.
He translated the Book of Mormon into the 
Hawaiian language and with his brethren 
was so successful that when they left the 
islands in July, 1853, there were more than 
four thousand members in the Church in 
that country. He went on another mission 
to California, May, 1855, and during that 
mission published the Western Standard 
and also the Book of Mormon in Hawaiian,
which he had previously translated. He 
returned by advice of President Young at 
the time of Johnston's army reaching this 
city, January, 1858, and was appointed 
Adjutant General in the army of defence.
He was soon after sent to Fillmore with the 
printing press and material of the Deseret 
News, which he published there from April 
to September in 1858.
On his way home from Fillmore he was 
n tified to take a mission to the Eastern 
States for which, after his arrival, he got 
ready in three quarters of an hour. He 
was away nearly two years laboring among 
editors and prominent members of Congress 
to correct misrepresentations made against 
this people. He had charge of the branches 
of the Church in the East and acted as 
emigration agent in New York. On his re- 
turn he was ordained an Apostle, August 
26, 1860. Six weeks after he was sent to 
Europe to take charge of the Millenial Star 
and the emigration business at Liverpool,
where he landed December 21, 1860, and 
established a Church printing office. He 
remained there until May 14, 1862, when 
he was called to Washington, D. C., to 
meet Captain Hooper, who had been elected 
delegate to Congress. They endeavored to 
obtain the admission of the Territory into 
the Union as a state at that time. 
When Congress adjourned Brother Can-
non returned to England, arriving July 21,
1851, where he presided over the European
mission until 1864, visiting the branches of 
the Church in Scandinavia, Germany,
Switzerland and France. After his return 
he became the private secretary of Presi-
dent Young for three years. In the winter 
of 1864 and '65 he organized and taught 
a Sunday School in the 14th ward of this 
city. 
In January, 1866, he commenced the 
publication of the Juvenile Instructor, of 
which he continued to be the editor to the 
time of his demise. In the fall of 1867 he 
took charge of the Deseret News, which 
was then weekly and semi-weekly, but on 
November 21st of that year he issued the 
first number of the daily under the title of 
the Deseret Evening News, continuing for 
several years editor and publisher, though 
traveling much through the settlements 
with the first Presidency and Apostles.
In 1871 he was sent to Washington, D.
C., with President George A. Smith, where 
he spent his time defending the people of 
Utah from the attacks of their enemies.
After his return home he was elected a 
member of the Constitutional Convention


[Column 1]
of 1872, and after the Constitution was
framed and adopted he went to Washing-
ton with Hon. Thomas Fitch and Hon.
Frank Fuller, to present the Constitution
and apply for Utah’s admission to state-
hood again.
	In August, 1872, he was elected Delegate
to succeed Hon. W. H. Hooper, and was
re-elected four successive terms, making
five in all. His course in Congress was so
irreproachable, and his wisdom and judg-
ment so admirable that he won the respect
and confidence of all with whom he came
in contact. He was highly esteemed by all
as a man of refinement and excellent abili-
ty, and he never failed to win the confi-
dence and good-will of all whom it was his
duty or privilege to associate with, however
great their station in life or in affairs of
State.
	The latter part of the life of President
Cannon is perhaps better known to our peo-
ple than the earlier occurrences, although
he has really occupied a higher position in
the Church in later years. He has been
General Superintendent of the Sunday
School Union ever since its organization in
1867, which has grown to be such an im-
portant institution in Zion. He was a mem-
ber of the General Board of Education from
its organization, April 5, 1888, and he filled
many positions of public trust beside those
of the Church, always with credit to him-
self and the cause he represented. His
life was a very busy one, no man could do
more, his capacity for work of the best
quality seemed unlimited. His books are
all perfectly written and contain exalted
truths, and it would be well for the Saints
to read or re-read them and recommend
them especially to the youth of Zion, His
magazine articles written for various period-
icals were always worthy of the man and
his subject, and though the outside world
did not agree with his religious views, yet
his literary ability was admired by the
most competent judges.
	To the saints who are living he must
seem very real, for his work and its results
are everywhere apparent, he has left behind
him indeed a shining mark that will light
the way for all time. “He is not dead, but
sleepeth” is true of President George Q.
Cannon. His memory is more than a
shadow, it is engraven on the hearts of those
who heard his wonderfully magnificent
voice, his sublime teachings, his cordial
greetings on all occasions. The youth of
Zion should strive to attain to the same ex-
cellence in all they undertake, never give up
President Cannon was a self-made man, so
far as education of his own time, he was a
student of the Bible, but he had not the
opportunities for schools and colleges that
the young men of today enjoy, and yet he
surpassed most men of his time in the ac-
quirement of learning and accomplishments.
He regretted not having had the advantages
of a classical education, but his indomitable
perservance in the pursuit of knowledge
was almost unparalleled.
	President Cannon passed away surrounded
by near and loving relatives although far
from his own home and many dear ones,
yet in a beautiful spot in the old city of
Monterey, California, commanding a fine
view of the Bay, which was pleasant to look
out upon.
	Of his illness the public were almost
daily notified by telegrams to the friends at
home, which were published in the city
papers.
	The funeral services held in the large

[Column 2]
Tabernacle were numerously attended and
the great organ pealing forth its grandly
sublime notes awakened the tenderest emo-
tions of the human heart, albeit attuned to
sadness, and yet to victorious triumph.
	The first hymn by the choir was Presi-
dent Woodruff’s favorite, “God moves in a
mysterious way.” The prayer was offered
by Apostle F. M Lyman, and a male chorus
of the best singers rendered the funeral
anthem, “Not dead, but sleepeth.”
	The speakers of the occasion were the
Apostles and First Presidency, men with
whom his life had been spent in loving ser-
vice for the Gospel, and many glowing
tributes were paid to his memory by these
great and noble men who had labored with
him and knew whereof they spoke.
	During the service Elder R. C. Easton
rendered “Sister Eliza’s” immortal invo-
cation, “O, my Father,” in a most impres-
sive style, his superb voice filling the
Tabernacle with melody. A male quartette
gave beautifully, “O, Love Divine,” and
the last musical number was Evan Stephen’s
anthem, “When the Soul is Sad and Weary
Seek Relief in Prayer.”
	The white draping festooned with heavy
white silk cord and tassels and rosettes and
bows of white satin ribbon made the place
sacred and fitting for such service over one
whose life had been consecrated to the ser-
vice of his Lord and Master.
	The floral emblems were suggestive of the
various places he had filled and the work he
had performed. The flowers were the
choicest and rarest varieties to be obtained.
	The gift of the Sunday School was a large
open book encircled with a wreath and a
tablet with the words “The Childrens’
Friend.” From the family a floral mauso-
leum with solid roof, and floor of pink and
white carnations and roses, and columns
twined with smilax and flowers, the word
“Father” embedded in the banked flowers.
	There were many other exquisite floral
offerings and the effect was beyond any
mere description on paper or canvas, and
must have been seen to be realized or appre-
ciated. The fragrance and beauty com-
bined with the exquisite taste of the ar-
rangement reminded one of the poet who
wrote,

	“Flowers preach to us if we will hear.”

	After the funeral cortege had reached the
cemetery and while the casket was being
lowered into the grave the quartette rendered
the good old hymn, “Come ye disconsolate.”
	The grave was dedicated by Apostle
Anthon H. Lund, and Bishop John R.
Winder expressed, in behalf of the family,
gratitude for all the kindness and the at-
tention shown them in their time of sorrow
and affliction. The quartette sang, “When
the Swallows Homeward Fly.” The grave
was literally embowered in flowers. Presi-
dent Cannon was buried at the side of his
wife, Elizabeth, who died in 1882, and his
two sons, Abraham and David, and
other children.

