[WomansExponent | Vol29 | 1900 | January | Issue: 15 | Title: LOUISA L. GREENE RICHARDS. | Author: Unknown]

	LOUISA L. GREENE RICHARDS.

	Two centuries—what shall I say of them,
the passing away and the new birth ?
	To one whose life is centered in the hap-
piness and well being of the children of the
Saints, it seems but natural that whatever
has happened in the past, or may happen in
the future, our little ones must of necessity
be the center from which and towards which
what thoughts I have at this particular
time ebb and flow.
	So many changes have come to pass in
our actions toward children and in our
methods in rearing and training, that much
might be said or written about them.
	We have much to be grateful for to


[Column 1]
Pestalozzi and Froebel and many others
who have filled our own and our children’s
lives with pleasures and experiences of
object lessons, and the Kindergarten, with
its many beautiful phases, none of which
appeal more strongly than the pleasures of
“learning by doing.”
	Among us, as a people, we feel that much
has been accomplished and that the path
lies very bright before us for the progress
and advancement of the future, and that
this is made possible through the restora-
tion of the Gospel during the past century,
and through the Prophet Joseph Smith,
who opened the door for woman.
	And now where are the limitations of
woman’s progress and improvement? And
as the care of children is woman’s special
charge, the new century will see much ad-
vancement and many things which today
are in the experimental stage will be proven
and tested, and whatever is unworthy will
be cast out. For however much may be
said of the present wickedness of the world,
with the education of our children in the
care of that sex which has always, and will
still maintain the chastity and virtue of the
race, with the possibilities of the newer
education added to those long inherited
qualities, the race of men will grow and in-
crease in the virtues and graces of life, as
well as in intelligence and power.
