[WomansExponent | Vol29 | 1900 | January | Issue: 15 | Title: A CHILD OF NATURE. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

		A CHILD OF NATURE.
	[Read before the Parent’s class in the Academy 
at Provo, Nov. 7, 1900, by Mrs. E. B. Wells.]
	A child of nature! What a sublime 
theme for the poet or the painter, but, alas!
for me who am neither, and only a poor 
scribbler, it is indeed beyond my language 
to express in words or sentiment this mighty 
subject. But because I fain would try to do 
each task allotted to me, however hard, I’ll do
my best tonight, even tho’ I may fall very 
far short of my own ideal. 
	The new-born babe is the fairest, sweetest 
flower of Paradise, and when the mother 
clasps it to her breast it is the supreme 
moment of her existence. No other earthly 
joy can possibly compare with the ecstacy of 
motherhood. All pain, all suffering, how-
ever great, is forgotten in that new life of
hers—the gift of God, the symbol of His 
love for woman, say what you will. God 
so loved the world that He gave His only
begotten Son, but He gave His only
begotten Son, but He gave Him through 
the woman, Mary, the mother of Jesus! 
Holy Motherhood! greatest and best of all 
gifts to womankind! 
	We behold the child! Who is it? What 
is it? It is curiously and wonderfully 
made; it surpasses our understanding. There 
are no words to convey the idea of the mother-
love. It is God’s child still, and it is its 
mothers; the spirit of the Eternal animates 
it, and it is endowed from on high with 
understanding in embryo; it smiles, it cries,
it opens its eyes upon the new world into 
which it has come, and, perchance, it 
wonders why—we none of us know, not 
even the mother who has borne it, and who 
claims it by a sort of divine right. 
	Byron in his wonderful prayer said, 
“Without my own consent I came but with my 
	wildest wish I go,
For I would fainly be the same I was ere born to
	woe.”
	But Joseph Smith, the prophet of this 
dispensation, has told us that we consented 
to come, to leave the glorious mansions on 
high and take upon us mortality. 
	I would I could tell you how Joseph loved 
little children, and to me this trait in his 
character is another proof, and a strong one 
of the divinity of his mission. Jesus loved 
little children and he taught the people that 
unless they could become like unto a little 
child, they could in no wise enter the king-
dom of heaven. 
	The babe may be born here or there, in a 
cottage or in a palace, or in the open air of 
heaven, or upon the great, wide ocean, the 
blood of the generations before it is in its 
veins, it is a part of the great human life,
but its destiny even to those around it is
unknown—for oft the little babe born and 
reared in childhood in the country of its 
forefathers, finds in its riper age a home far,
far from the land of its birth and childish
associations; and yet, methinks, almost al-
ways with something of its past clinging to 
it still, an inheritance not of lands or 
material possessions, but something innate 
that manifests itself in habits, tastes and 
qualities, a mysterious something difficult 
to analyze.

[Column 2]
	We may say the babe is the same whether 
born in sunny Italy or among the snow-
clad hills of Norway, or in any other clime
or any other country, and so it is apparent-
ly at its birth, but its growth and develop-
ment reveals to the acute observer phy-
sically and spiritually, or, if we may use 
the term, intellectually, in various phases al-
most intangible, yet unmistakable tokens of 
its birthplace and early environments, as 
well as its race and parentage
	I fear I diverge far from my subject, like
the preacher who takes a text for his dis-
course, yet wanders hither and thither and 
never touches it. However, one must in-
deed be narrow-minded if in so vast a field of 
beauty and of variety as that of a child of 
nature, one does not wander about some-
what at random, for there are no bounds to 
childhood's realm, no heights too lofty for 
its thought, no flights of fancy too ethereal
for its imagination. 
	It stretches out its arms at first to grasp
whatever it may seize upon; it tries its 
strength of limb in many ways; it begins to 
inquire first with its eyes; it asks for love,
for endearments, and when the baby lips 
can lisp but simple words how soon we find 
it longs for knowledge, of itself, the home,
the little things that surround its daily life.
The bird that sings or chirps at the window,
the flower that grows within or without the 
domicile or yard where it has strayed or 
been taken, the cat, the dog or other house-
hold pets, any and all the little living 
trifles that make up the sum of the daily 
life of the home.
	The love that is born in the child’s
nature, if cherished and fostered, is a mar-
velous gift, and ought never to be checked,
lest the natural tendency of its life become
artificial, or, we are apt to say, “soured.”
The child cannot have too much love, it is 
indeed possible it may have too much at-
tention and too much indulgence, but that 
is not true love. It is, however, my own be-
lief parents often control or govern too 
much (though neither of these are good 
terms to use in this connection.) They do 
not study child-life from the child’s stand-
point, but from their own older and more
matured views of life. I may be treading 
now on dangerous ground, but whatever 
my faults in dealing with children, I cer- 
tainly would never advise severity. It 
assuredly crowds out the beautiful in the
child’s life and makes the little one more or 
less unhappy, without producing the desired 
effect of willing submission to authority,
that is beyond its comprehension.
	Happily for the children of this genera-
tion, the rod has gone out of fashion; we 
have indeed fallen upon better times and 
the chances are all on the side of self-
development instead of self-abasement. If 
we do not go too far and get self-conceit in-
stead of a proper degree of modesty, if we 
can strike the happy medium in child-life,
then indeed we may begin to believe in the 
coming of a higher race, because the 
parents themselves will have learned how 
carefully to deal with the delicate nature of 
these little precious plants, given into their
<c>are fresh from the garden of the gods.


[Column 1]
	I have sometimes thought that if our
Father in Heaven were to deal with his re-
fractory and disobedient children in the per-
emptory way some intelligent parents do
with theirs, there would be a great change
come into the world suddenly.
	I am quite sure, however, I was not asked
or expected to write a dissertation upon the
training of children, but simply to tell you
of the child of nature.

I tell the story old, creation’s song
	Thrilling the mother-heart the ages down
New every day as centuries roll along,
	The height-of motherhood—the crown.

Fresh from the royal courts far, far away.
	All duly poised whither in winged flight,
There came a fairy creature—bless the day!
	Into the motherland of glad delight.

This beauteous one brought hither joy and grace
	And made the dream of life more radiant still,
Than erst had been that happy home and place,
	Though sacred were its duties to fulfill.

The beauty of the little babe bespoke
	The harmonies which to the soul belong,
And all the higher, finer senses woke
	To the divinest melody of song.

	It is thus the little child comes into our
midst, first into the home nest, but gradu-
ally into the great, busy, bustling, worka-
day world. It comes to know evil where it
may perchance have thought all was good
—finally it knows temptation, and, oh, how
terrible if it is not wisely taught, and care-
fully guarded. If reared in a home where
simplicity of living is the rule of life, and
thrift and honesty and all the homely
virtues are inculcated in its daily associa-
tions, where vanity, pride and prejudice
are things unknown, and freedom of
thought and action encouraged and strength-
ened by healthy exercise of mind and
body, and above all where reverence for
all that is sacred is taught in precept and
by example—then indeed are the environ-
ments such as must naturally tend to make
the child.

“A thing of beauty and a joy forever.”

	And true to my own theory of one’s past
clinging to the personal character or devel-
opment, here let me say, the child allowed
to roam, or one inclined to be much in the
haunts of nature, grows in a sense akin to
its surroundings, and these rural scenes,
these pageants of nature, these magnificent
panoramas, help the child to enter, as it
were, into the Temple of glory “through
the gate called Beautiful.” Who would
dare to say this admiration of the works of
an Almighty hand do not lift the soul of
the child into loftier heights and feast itself
in the realms that are fresh with the im-
press of Him, who has made all things by
His infinite skill and divine power? Thus
Gray, the poet, says:

"The meanest floweret of the vale,
The simplest note that swells the gale,
The common rain, the air, the skies.
To him are opening Paradise.”

	The love of nature is a great gift, and
one for which no description can prepare
us so well, as to be in a sense, to the man-
ner born. The greatest thing in the world
is to see something, and yet one might
fancy from what we know of some people
that they had walked through the world
with their eyes shut, or at any rate
with them closely veiled.
	In nature we have the most wonderful
variety. It is more than pictures on the
walls or in the galleries, for they are al-
ways the same, but outdoor life, whether in
the heavens or on the earth, is changing

[Column 2]
every day, every hour, or every moment.
Evidently, as one great writer has said,
“The material world was not made ex-
clusively for the purpose of being painted.”
	But here again I fear I am digressing,
and I was not expected to talk about art,
and really were I to launch into color there
is no telling what extravagances I might
indulge in, because it is one of my pet
hobbies.
	I would not wish that the child might
grow up in the woods in order that it
might be good, nor yet would I reason that
one reared in a crowded city would for that
cause alone be bad; but one cannot help
recognizing the effect of the wonderful
pageantry of nature upon those who have
lived much in its realm. One need not go
far for illustrations, not that we are not in
favor of progress in its modern sense, but
if we look at the men (leaving women out
of the question) who have helped to move
the world onward, we must of necessity re-
fer to those that have been brought up,
one might almost say, to use a homely
phrase, “in the backwoods.”
	For instance, Brigham Young, whose
ideas of progress in almost all directions are
to be seen today on every hand, who
founded this great institution of learning
from which so many students have gone
forth into the great world to build up homes
and colonies and establish industries, and to
preach the Gospel to those that sit in dark-
ness, was born and reared in the Green
Mountains of Vermont, and remember those
were not bare mountains like ours, but
covered with dense forests, from which the
great trees were hewed down to make a
clearing for human habitation. Brother Smoot
the president so many years of this Stake of
Zion, and whose record is engraven on the
hearts of the people here, is another illustra-
tion of the same idea, tho’ he lived in a
different part of the country but where it
was new and wild and primitive.
	Abraham Lincoln, of the same type,
was another of the stalwarts born
to just such an inheritance. The founders
of this Church were nearly all of them men
reared among the scenes of nature and
acquainted with the hardships of outdoor
life, as well as gifted with the rich heritage
of the love of nature’s haunts. I recall
vividly to mind more than one of these
Nature’s noblemen who delighted in the
poems of nature, because it brought back
recollections of the scenes of childhood and
youth—the woods, the brooks, the hills, the
rocks, the wild flowers, the songbirds, the
meadows, the mosses and the ferns. And
these things impress even the strong
natures of men, making them gentle, kindly
and thoughtful, not only of human beings,
but of animals. Such a one was Brigham
Young. He treated his animals' with the
utmost kindness and consideration.
	In these days of the craze for fresh air
one would naturally suppose that the chil-
dren would incline to the studies and
beauties of scenery in its wilder character,
instead of which it seems apparent nowadays
that cricket and football and such like
games are the order of the day much to the
regret, I had almost said disgust, of the
tender-hearted mothers, and I might add
the hard-worked, over-burdened mothers,
who have not only the tending of their
wounds and bruises, but the mending of
their jerseys and trousers.
	The Roman proverb that a child should
be taught nothing but what it can learn

[Column 3]
standing up, went no doubt into an extreme,
but surely we in this day fall into another
error, or an extreme equally dangerous,
when we act as if athletic ames were
the only thing which boys could learn upon
their feet. The love of athletic games
among boys may be a healthy instinct, but
is, in our opinion, carried too far in some of
our great scho[-]ls.
	Our children born here, though not
brought up in the woods, have yet an
intimate association with the beauties of
nature. We have as yet no densely-
crowded cities, but lofty mountains whose
snowy peaks seem to reach to the skies, the
canons that are full of beauty and of variety,
waterfalls, rivers, brooklets, lakes and an
inland sea of surpassing beauty, the wonder
and surprise of tourists and scientists; an
abundance of fresh air and lands to culti-
vate and make beautiful and servicable.
	The character of our children, brought up
among such scenes of nature’s manifold
grandeur, should be of surpassing excel-
lence. They should excel in all the virtues
that are most useful and desirable. They
should and must, for it is the prophecy of
the future, become physically, mentally,
morally and spiritually the greatest states-
men, heroes, scholars, scientists, artists,
linguists and preachers of righteousness the
world has ever produced; the best and
wisest fathers, the tenderest, gentlest and
noblest mothers, examples and teachers of
all mankind. Such is to be their high
destiny, and in view of the fulfillment of
all these things, how shall we order their
lives aright? Temperance and moderation in
all the habits and pursuits of childhood;
healthy exercise upon the farm, or in the
field a part of the year, not too much close
confinement in the schoolroom all the year
round, but leave some development to
nature and obeying nature’s laws. Study
some things from the great book of nature,
as well as from the books of men.

"There is a pleasure in the pathless woods,
There is a rapture on the lonely shore,
There is society where none intrudes,
By the deep sea, and music in its roar;
I love not man the less but nature more,
From these our interviews from which I steal
From all I may be or have been before,
To mingle with the universe and feel
What I can ne’er express, yet cannot all conceal."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISS LUCIE BARRON, of Clarendon, has
been elected State Librarian of South
Carolina.
	QUEEN WILHELMINA was “given away”
at her wedding by four peers of the realm,
Victoria was given away by her uncle. The
custom of giving away the bride is an an-
achronism, a relic of the days when a
woman was a chattel belonging to her male
relatives. It seems peculiarly absurd
in the case of a queen. Happily it
is nowadays only a form. It is well known
that both Victoria and Wilhelmina chose
their own husbands.
	MRS. L. H. GREENWALD, of York, Pa.,
is said to be the only woman weather fore-
caster in the country. She has been em-
ployed by the government in that capacity
for twelve years, has been often commended
for exceptional accuracy, and is an ac-
knowledged authority on climatology and
meteorology. Mrs. Greenwald is also
president of a woman’s organization inter-
ested in scientific research—the National
Science Club.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


