[WomansExponent | Vol29 | 1900 | January | Issue: 15 | Title: SALT LAKE STAKE. | Author: Unknown]

		SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of the Salt
Lake Stake was held in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Hall, March 2, 1901,
President M. I. Horne presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing “Oh Jesus,
the Giver.” Prayer by Maria W. Wilcox.
Singing, “O say what is truth.”
	Present on the stand were Sisters Zina D.
H. Young, B. W. Smith, M. I. Horne,
Sarah J. Cannon, Annie T. Hyde, Clara C.
Cannon, Maria Wilcox and Julia C. Howe.
	After some business reports were given,

[Column 2]
Sister Horne thanked the sisters for the
interest they had taken in her during her
sickness, acknowledged the hand of the
Lord in raising up friends to them during
the time they were quarantined and
thanked the Lord for His great goodness to
them. Said she felt like Job—the afflic-
tions she dreaded most had come to her.
She had been promised her life should be
lengthened out to perform the duties de-
volving upon her.
	President Zina D. H. Young said,
“Obedience is better than sacrifice.” She
was glad to be with the sisters. The restor-
ation of Sister Horne’s health was as the
restoring spirit. Felt very much in earnest
as to the work which would have to be ac-
complished. The Lord has opened up the
way for His people. If we are humble and
faithful and keep the faith of the Lord with
us, we will be blessed and preserved.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde said we certainly
all rejoiced to have these dear mothers with
us today. Spoke of the words of Solomon,
that those who should look towards the
holy temple, (in that day) with prayerful
hearts, should receive a blessing. Felt that
we are a blest people and should be happy,
and not a sorrowful people. Thought we
had everything to be thankful for, and
should have faith and teach our children
faith. Spoke of the marvelous way in
which we obtained records for Temple
work. Believed that the Lord would open
up the way for all who desired to do
Temple work. Told the sisters of the con-
templated organization of a class in parlia-
mentary law by Mrs. Urquhart Lee. Read
what the Prophet Joseph Smith said with
regard to this in the first organization of the
Relief Society. Hoped the Relief Society
presidents would have a representative at-
tend this class. It was certainly necessary
for each society to be conducted in a busi-
ness way.
	Sister Clara C. Cannon said, “The 17th
of March will soon be here and the several
branches of the society will take pains to
have the meetings, and also collect the fund
towards the expenses of the General Soci-
ety.” Thought it was necessary to re-
member this great day. Made good and
encouraging remarks to the sisters on the
subjects of Temple work, belief in the Gos-
pel, faith in the Lord and in His com-
mandments to us. Sister Cannon also en-
dorsed the study of parliamentary law and
believed it would result in much good.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith encouraged
the sisters to attend this class. She would
join it herself and if it did not do her much
good, was sure it would help others. Knew
that the Prophet endorsed this in his day
and thought it was just as necessary at the
present time. Prayed that the Lord would
help us to keep in the faith, that we might
never go astray.
	Sister Sarah Jane Cannon said she wished
to join this class, and believed it would do
much good. What we learn in this life we
will not need to learn in the hereafter.
Was thankful to have Sister Horne here
with us. Said we should be careful to do
the little things of life, they will often re-
sult in more rea[-] [illegible line]
	Morning session closed by singing “The
time is far spent.” Benediction by
Clarissa S. Williams.
	Afternoon session commenced by singing
“How firm a foundation.” Prayer by Sis-
ter Clara C. Cannon. A quartette from the
Temple choir sang “O Jesus, the Giver of
all we enjoy.”


[Column 1]
	Sister Horne welcomed the sisters, of
whom there was a large number present.
Spoke in her usual kind, motherly way a
few moments. Told the sisters to do their
duty and lay up treasures in heaven.
	There being so many more present at the
afternoon meeting Sister Annie T. Hyde
announced the forming of classes in parlia-
mentary usage, and urged the sisters to at
least send one representative from each
ward.
	Sister Julia C. Howe appreciated the
fellowship of her sisters, said it is a day of
progression, also a day of trial. In every
position we should do our duty, temporally
and spiritually. Spoke of the Relief
Society as being the parent society. En-
larged on the numberless duties connected
with this society which we should give our
close attention. Advised the sisters to
seek the Lord for His help to assist them to
perform the requirements made of them.
	Sister Elizabeth Stevenson said it is a
blessing and a comfort to mingle with the
Latter-day Saints. She was truly thankful
to be one of the people. Likened the meet-
ings of the sisters to the school of the
prophets, as the things we learn here are
such as we could not learn any where else.
Spoke of the day of trial which would surely
come upon us, thought we should cultivate
kindness and every good quality of character
and prepare ourselves for the great work of
the future.
	Sister Mary A. Freeze said she was
pleased to be present, felt blest in the
privilege of associating with good men and
women. Told of the anxiety of those who
could not visit the Temples and be in con-
stant association with the prophets of the
Lord. Hoped we would all appreciate the
great blessings which we enjoy. Seeking
for the spirit is the proper way and will
bring us into possession of that spirit, and
our Father alone can read the heart, and as
long as we keep the faith it will finally lead
us aright.
	Sister Ruth M. Fox bore a faithful testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel and spoke
of trials as being stepping stones to glory,
thought they prepared us for the future and
rendered us more broad and useful. Be-
lieved that happiness meant work and work
meant happiness. We want to overcome our
trials and not let them overcome us.
Thought it an honor to be a member of the
Relief Society and a greater honor to be a
member of the Church. Asked the Lord to
bless every one of the sisters in their efforts
to do right.
	A beautiful solo was rendered by Sister
Maggie Hull, the song was entitled “When
I get to the end of the way.”
	Sister Lula Greene Richards hoped when
“we get to the end of the way” we would
have the same sweet singers to greet us.
Advised the sisters to have a reccomend
ready to go to the Temple and take ad-
vantage of it occasionally. Believed we all
desired to have our children taught in the
way of the Lord. Likened the spirit in the
Temple to the spirit of a kind parent, and

[Column 2]
was afraid we were not appreciating the
privilege of the Temple and the good we
get there.
	Brother C. J. Thomas rejoiced to hear
the good remarks which had been made.
While he had not seen the Prophet Joseph
he had seen and heard many glorious and
wonderful things, Was thankful for the
honor and the privilege of being called as a
worker in the Temple. Said the Lord is in
waiting and urging us to attend to the
glorious Temple privileges.
	In her closing remarks Sister Horne said:
“We are very anxious for our sons, but
what of our daughters? Is not their mis-
sion as great as any other, and perhaps
greater? They bring the souls of the
generations of men to earth. Their mission
is wonderful and the sisters should be en-
couraged in their duties.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
The quartette sang, “Zion stands with hills
surrounded.” The singing was a very
enjoyable feature of the afternoon’s exer-
cises. Closing prayer by Sister Sarah
Phelps.
