WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		A PURITAN VILLAGE.
A GLIMPSE OF TOPSFIELD—AN INTERESTING
	TOWN AS YET UNMODERNIZED.
	When the Puritans made their settlement
at Salem, the tribe of Agawam owned the
land bordering on the Atlantic coast be-
tween the Naumkeag and the Merrimac
rivers, and inland as far as Andover. Mas-
conoment, their chief, conveyed the present
towns of Ipswich and Topsfield to John
Winthrop, son of Governor Winthrop, for
£20. Thus sacrificing his beautiful hunting-
grounds, which abounded in game, he be-
came in his later days dependent upon the
colonists. He was buried on Sagamore
Hill in the present town of Hamilton. The
first occupancy of Topsfield by European
settlers dates back to 1635, but its incor-
poration as a town came some years later.
The beautiful broad meadows that border
the Agawam (now called Ipswich) river
first attracted the early settlers of Ipswich
and Salem, and grants of land were given
to John Endicott, Simon Bradstreet, Robert
Paine and others, who formed a settlement
here, to which they gave the name of New
Meadows. The present name of Topsfield,
which might have been suggested by its
hill, was no doubt derived from Toppesfield,
England, from which place many immi-
grants came at an early day and made their
home here. Prominent among these was
a man named Smith, and there are now
extant in the old stone church at Toppes-
field, England, some interesting memorials
of his family; among them one is partic-
ularly noticeable, commemorating the vir-
tues and Christian graces of his mother.
From this mother in Israel through her line
of descendants in this village came Joseph
Smith, the founder of the “Mormon” sect,
and in the village cemetery here is a monu-
ment to the Smith family, erected through
the instrumentality of George A. Smith, a
“Mormon” elder, lately deceased. The old
town of Toppesfield, England, is said to
retain the manners and customs of primitive
times, and is far behind its namesake in
America in population and general intel-
ligence.
	The old Bradstreet farm, probably the
first one laid out in the early township of
New Meadows, covers one of the eastern
hills, its cultivated fields sloping to the broad
meadow at its base. This farm was given
by Governor Bradstreet to his son Simon,
whose descendants, bearing the name of
Bradstreet, occupy an old fashioned home-
stead built close to the original house, which
was only taken down a few years ago.
While Ann Dudley, the poet wife of Gov-
ernor Simon Bradstreet, has transmitted
her genius to some of her descendants
(among whom are Oliver Wendell Holmes
and Richard H. Dana), the benevolent
features and amiable characteristics of her
husband, the old colonial governor, can be
easily traced in some of his descendants in
this village. Anne Bradstreet was a daugh-
ter of that rigid old Puritan, Governor
Thomas Dudley, and every generation since
her time in Topsfield has had a Dudley
Bradstreet among its number, even to the
present occupant of the farm we have men-
tioned. Very few villages of New England
have retained their old-time simplicity as
this one has done. None of the hurry and
bustle of its more enterprising neighbors
have come over these hills. One manu-

[Column 2]
facturer only has gained a foothold, and
even he hesitates to destroy the quiet of
the village by importing foreign laborers,
and only employs the sons and daughters of
his neighbors and friends. No Queen Anne
turreted villa dots hill or plain, and no
summer hotel invites the stranger to this
quiet retreat.
	A strong feature of Topsfield is the
accessibility of all things that make country
life desirable to a lover of nature. No long
dusty roads or toilsome climbing are nec-
essary to put before one the wildest views,
the prettiest dells and the greenest meadows
bordered by grand old oak and hickory
trees. Foot-paths and well-worn stiles, of
which Burroughs laments there are so few
in this country, take you within the shade
of the pines up the hillside to an elevation
where can be seen Newburyport, the hills
of Ipswich, the waters of Pigeon Cove, the
high bluffs of Beverly Shore, and when the
atmosphere is clear, Marblehead and the
harbor of Salem town. From this hill we
look upon the village, with its two church
spires, shady streets, comfortable, farmlike
houses, and upon the Agawam, spanned by
bridges and shaded by overhanging trees
and shrubs. This romantic stream that bows
and bends all the way to the ocean, is like
a little brook during the summer months,
but overflows its banks in the spring and
autumn, turning the outlying meadows
into a broad, smooth lake. In the west are
the Andover hills, and beyond stretch other
ranges, with Monadnoc and Wachusett
dimly outlined on the horizon. In the center
of the village is a wide common, intersected
by paths shaded by elms and bordered by
two churches, the town hall and two old
colonial houses, built by the Emersons in the
best style of architecture of a hundred years
ago, giving a grand and gracious air to
this inland town. An ancient house still
stands near the common, built with an over-
hanging upper story for protection from the
Indians. There is no record of its age, but
it is supposed to have stood at least two
hundred and twenty years, and has few
companions left anywhere in New England.
It was the home of Rev. Joseph Capen, the
first minister of Topsfield, who came here
from Dorchester in the middle of the sev-
enteenth century. Rev. John Emerson suc-
ceeded Mr. Capen, and in his long min-
stry of forty-six years, though often de-
prived of his meager salary, managed to
amass fifty thousand dollars, a large fortune
for those days. He was a brother of Rev.
Joseph Emerson, from whom came the Con-
cord branch. The Rev. Joseph was spiritu-
ally minded, never counting the things of
this world, and he ceased to hold friendly
and brotherly communion with John, who
he thought was too much engrossed in
worldly affairs. The colonial houses were
built by descendants of Parson John, and
two years ago, when one became the
property of the Congregational church, to
be used as a parsonage, lilac trees over
eighty years old, that had been the pride
and delight of a former generation, were
cut to the ground, thus in some measure
destroying the ideality of this village. We
are reminded of the poet Longfellow, who
never wished to leave his home in Cam-
bridge when the lilacs were in bloom.
	This village, like Salem and Danvers, suf-
fered from the witchcraft delusion. Two
women—Mary Eastey and Sarah Wildes—
were dragged from their homes and hung on


Witch’s hill, while another—Abigail Hobbs
—was condemned to die, but was finally
pardoned. Mary Eastey and the well-
known Rebecca Nourse were sisters, daugh-
ters of William Town of Topsfield, who
settled here as early as 1635. All these
women had led exemplary lives, were strong
in the Christian faith, with a native sweet-
ness of disposition that endeared them to
their families and friends. They became
shining marks for this most cruel persecu-
tion, but their memory is still treasured,
and their eloquent appeals for justice and
mercy have not failed to find a place in the
hearts of the generations that have fol-
lowed them.
	The study of geology and botany is be-
coming very popular throughout Essex
county. Many of the smaller towns and
villages have organized clubs through
the influence of the famous Essex Institute
which has its headquarters at Salem. Some
of the towns have exhibited fine collections
of wild flowers at the annual fairs of this
county, and Topsfield ought to send of its
abundance, for the flora of the village and
its vicinity is rich. The meadows, from
early spring until midsummer, present a
succession of vivid colors from the multi-
tude and variety of wild flowers. Before
the roadside grass is green, and while the
buds are yet swelling on the trees, the cow-
slips or meadow buttercups, or marshmal-
lows, as they are frequently called, stretch
up their vigorous yellow bloom out of the
watery hillocks, that ooze and sputter at
the lightest weight. The painted cups then
follow, whose petals shade from green to
the brightest red, forming a score or more
of clustering cups, that draw the water
through their hollow stems and drop it
from the brim. Bryant sings in praise of
this flower, which is rarely found in New
England—

“Scarlet tufts are glowing in the green, like lakes
	of fire!”

	The wanderers of the prairie know them
well, and call that flower “the painted cup.”
Then come the dark red trilium and the
white buck bean, the thickly strewn pur-
plish red blossoms of the pitchers, the
“jacks,” with their lords and ladies, and
the white azalea, rich in fragrance. The last
of the spring production is the arethusa, with
its variegated lip and bright pink petals,
the most fascinating, delicate and delusive
of all the water plants, for it hides itself in
the most inaccessible places. The highways
and fields are covered with bloodroot,
anemones, violets, brown and blue, the dog-
tooth violet, nodding daintily on its stem,
blue hepatica, red columbine, the stately
slipper and the cardinal flower. In October,
the blue fringed gentian is often found
by their side. The woods contain fine speci-
mens of ferns that have attracted the at-
tention of botanists. The delicate brown
fern, so often in demand for herbariums,
is a native of these woods.
	The birds in Topsfield are of brilliant
plumage, and many varieties that have not
visited their old home for years, having
been driven away, it is said, by those
troublesome English sparrows, are now re-
turning in great numbers. Among them
the scarlet tanager and the gayly colored
grosbeck occasionally flash before us as
we pass through the wood, while yellow
birds, the little brown thrush, bluebirds in

[Column 2]
variety, and hosts of golden orioles, swing-
ing in their nests, are seen daily before our
doors. To appreciate the most beautiful
sounds of the country one should take an
early flight from the city. Come with the
cowslips and robins. In no other way can
the infinite variety of pleasures and sur-
prises afforded by the lavishness of nature
be fully realized.
	Practically, life in Topsfield is one of
general prosperity. “The poor ye have
always with you” scarcely applies to this
village, for even the poor farm has less
than six occupants. This farm is pleasantly
situated, and is one of the most produc-
tive in the town. They have an annex for
the “walking gentry,” commonly called
tramps, who lodge and are fed at the town’s
expense. Coffee was formerly furnished
them with their bread, but at one time so
many availed themselves of this generous
provision that water was substituted. The
question of building a separate establish-
ment for these vagrants, at some place
remote from the village, is now under con-
sideration. This will be an additional
grievance to them, as some have already
complained of the present short trip “over
the hills to the poorhouse.” The old acad-
emy, which has been a landmark for many
generations, is quaint and interesting, sit-
uated on an eminence in the heart of the
village.
	The inhabitants of Topsfield follow in
the footsteps of their ancestors, whose
traditions and occupations cling tenaciously
to the soil. The natural surroundings of the
village seem to be a defense against intru-
sion; and we should bless the everlasting
hills that preserve to us a peaceful old-
time village, the fulfillment of the Pur-
tan’s dream.—V. R. in Boston Transcript.


