WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
	NORTH SANPETE STAKE.
	Relief Society conference held in Spring
City July 7, 1912. Opening exercises held
with the Sunday School superintendent,
James Blain, presiding. Singing, “Kind
and Heavenly Father.” Prayer by Brother
John F. Allred. Singing, “When the Mists
Have Cleared Away.”
	Sacrament administered. Primary and
Kindergarten departments adjourned to
their respective rooms. Relief Society
officers in charge; President Ericksen pre-
siding. She felt very grateful to our Heav-
enly Father for the beautiful day, as so
many could be present; was very pleased
to have Sisters Wells and Hyde of the gen-
eral board with us. Minutes of previous
annual conference read, also the financial
and statistical report of the past year was
read. Roll called, showing 131 visiting
officers and members present. Sister Annie
Candland reported the Mt. Pleasant north
ward; were united in their work; financial
conditions good; poor well taken care of.
	Carrie L. Ericksen reported Mt. Pleasant
south ward. Lots of poor in the ward, but
were taken care of. Had sold their wheat
but would buy more in the fall.
	Sarah Fowles reported the Fairview
ward as doing well. All young mothers
in the ward were enrolled in the society; had
a good band of teachers; financial condi-
tions good; were prepared to assist finan-
cially wherever they could, in caring for the

[Column 2]
poor, and assisting the bishop; had a lot of
wheat in granary and it was well cared for;
assisted the bishop in the building of the
meeting house, by gathering Sunday eggs.
	Sister Stewart reported Milburn ward.
Sisters good in their donations and gather-
ing wheat.
	Sister Mary B. Guymon reported the
Fountain Green ward as being in good con-
dition; looked after the sick and poor; kept
up their wheat and made many quilts for
the poor.
	Sister Anna Hardy reported the Moroni
ward as having a fairly good attendance.
All young mothers enrolled in the society
and were a great help; held missionary par-
ties and gathered means for the mission-
aries; had purchased an organ for their hall
and were paying for it by gathering Sunday
eggs.
	Sister E. B. Wells, general president of
Relief Society, was pleased to be present
with the sisters in such a beautiful house.
She had always enjoyed visiting Sanpete;
had visited the wards many years ago; espe-
cially remembered Milburn and Indianola
wards; little wards did great things; had in
company with Eliza R. Snow and others
blessed Indian babies at Indianola. She
was a lover of the Sunday School and loved
children’s voices, because it was sweetest
music. Prophet Joseph Smith loved all
things that were beautiful. President Brig-
ham Young was also a lover of children and
always knew them. As mothers we should
cultivate every taste for the beautiful for
the benefit of our children.
	The work done by the Sunday eggs was a
remarkable thing. The first money donated
for the woman’s building was raised through
the sales of Sunday eggs gathered by Emery
Stake, amount $13.13. The Relief Society
work was a great work, beginning with 18
members, now an enrollment of 45,000. She
asked the children to remember her and
pray for her. The Prophet Joseph loved
the prayers of the children; related the story
of the children holding prayer meeting for
the Prophet when his life was in danger.
	Sister Jennie A. Hyde was proud of her
birthplace. This was her first visit in an
official way; was pleased to see everything
so lovely. She was indeed touched in re-
calling incidents of her younger days. Her
testimony in “Mormonism” was strength-
ened by hearing the speaking in tongues
when a girl; felt the Lord had heard and
answered the prayers offered in behalf of
the sisters; felt very thankful for the assist-
ance received from the sisters of the wards
in gathering means for the different calls
made of them.
	Singing, “There Is Sunshine in My Soul.”
	Benediction, by Sister Lizzie B. Allred.
	Conference reconvened at 2 p. m.
	President Ericksen presiding. Singing,
“Utah, We Love Thee.” Prayer by Bro.
Rasmus Justensen. Singing, anthem by
choir. Sacrament administered. General
and Stake officers were then sustained. A
well prepared talk on the proper observance
of the Sabbath day was given by Sister
Lewellyn of Wales. Song by members of
the Spring City ward. Reading, “Una-
wares,” by Cecelia Olsen.
	Sister Jennie A. Hyde spoke at
length on home manufactures and Utah
products; urged the sisters to take the lead
in this matter to patronize home industries
for the sake of our children and children’s
children; spoke of the ordinances of our


[Column 1]
Church; spoke of the Latter-day Saints hos-
pital and the advantages afforded the young
women to get an education in nursing; en-
couraged more to take up the profession.
Song by Ida Poulsen.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke of the great
things done by women and the Relief Socie-
ties; encouraged the girls to marry the
right way; spoke of building up libraries,
supplying church works first; explained the
plan of the EXPONENT; the great need of
storing wheat, as great calls were made on
the Relief Society for help from time to
time.
	President C. W. Sorensen was grateful
to be present at the sisters’ conferences;
spoke of Sister Wells’ capabilities at her ad-
vanced age. She certainly had been blessed
in her work.
	Closing remarks by President Ericksen.
Singing, an anthem by the choir.
	Benediction, by Bishop L. O. Larsen.
		FRANCES E. CHRISTENSEN,
						Stake Secretary.
		DUCHESNE STAKE.
	Minutes of conference of the Duchesne
stake held at Roosevelt July 28, 1912, at 10
a. m., President Aroetta Holgate presiding
and conducting the meeting. After the
opening exercises roll call showed 4 stake
officers, 16 ward officers, 8 teachers, 2 vis-
itors, 1 committeeman, and 1 high coun-
cilor present. President Aroetta Holgate
addressed the sisters and reminded them to
put in practice the instructions that had been
given to the Relief Societies at our previous
conference, that is, in getting the young
mothers to join our societies and to sub-
scribe for the EXPONENT. All the wards
were reported by the different presidents as
in a good and prosperous condition. Presi-
dent Aroetta Holgate addressed the sisters
and advised them to continue their efforts
in those directions and get all the young
mothers to join our Relief Society, and
stated that the Prophet Joseph Smith had
once said “that every virtuous woman
should belong to the Relief Society;” she
advised the sisters to follow the plans of
study laid down for them and that they
should have the books needed in their
course of study in their library; requested
the sisters to assist the presiding authority
by their faith and prayers. Relief Society
Committeeman Duncan W. Marchant ad-
dressed the sisters; he said he had enjoyed
his labors and the duty placed upon him;
was sorry more brethren did not sense the
responsibility placed upon the Relief Society
sisters, and that we should live strong in
the faith and do all the good we could.
Counselor Olive Bingham spoke and felt
pleasure with the Relief Society work and
was grateful for the labors taken up with
the young mothers. President Holgate said
that the question had been asked, “Was it
all right to sell a quilt or anything to the
highest cash bidder?” and answered that it
was all right, but not to raffle them. Ques-
tions were asked and discussed by the sis-
ters. Minutes were read and accepted with
three amendments. Singing, “Do What Is
Right.” Benediction by Sister Eva Moffatt.
		AFTERNOON SESSION.
	Minutes of the stake Relief Society con-
ference held at Roosevelt July 28, at 2 p.m.
After the opening exercises and sacrament
the meeting was turned over to the stake

[Column 2]
Relief Society officers. Roll was called,
showing 5 stake officers, 18 ward officers
present. Counselor Olive Bingham gave the
welcoming address and was pleased to see
so many present, and especially the young
mothers, and asked them to come to our
Relief Society meetings and join them.
After the wards were reported by the presi-
dent an address was given by Sister Ida
Kirkham, which was very good and encour-
aging. She said let us always remember the
motto, “Be not weary in well doing.” And
she strongly commended this stake for the
assistance rendered the flood and famine
sufferers, and gave us many good ideas;
told many things they had taken up in their
society in Salt Lake. Lecture by Sister
Eliza Pack, commemorating the Sabbath
Day. Lecture by Sister Alta Cloward, sub-
ject, “Public Health.” President Aroetta
Holgate addressed the congregation, telling
the advancement of the Relief Society and
how it had grown from so few in members
to so many; she requested that each society
provide the books needed in their plan of
study, and to assist the other auxiliary or-
ganizations of the ward when possible. Pres-
ident Wm. H. Smart indorsed the remarks
and reports of the previous speakers and
commended them for the course in trying
to get all the young mothers into our socie-
ties. He said our work was not only spir-
itual but temporal. Conference then ad-
journed.
		WASATCH STAKE.
	The annual conference of the Wasatch
stake Relief Society convened Friday, Aug.
9, 1912, at the stake tabernacle.
	Forenoon Session, 10 a. m.—President
Joannah E. Jensen presiding. Address of
welcome, Joannah E. Jensen. Roll call, all
the stake officers, 11 missionaries, 30 ward
officers, 166 members and a number of
local authorities present.
	Afternoon Session, 2 p. m.—A very in-
teresting program of music, recitations and
addresses was rendered, including an orig-
inal poem called “Aunt Em” by Mrs. Jane
Turner. The program was both instructive
and interesting. The visitors were President
Emmeline B. Wells and First Counselor
Clarissa S. Williams, both of whom made
interesting and instructive remarks. After
the conference a public reception was held.
