WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Bear Lake stake. Con-
ference was held in the tabernacle at Paris,
August 18, 1912, 10 a. m. President N. E
Pugmire presiding. Sisters McLelland
and Davis of the General Board, with Presi-
dent J. R. Shepherd and President William
Budge were in attendance. Opened by sing-
ing “Guide Us O Thou Great Jehovah.”
Prayer by Bishop Lindsay of Ovid. Sing-
ing, “O, Say What Is Truth” Reports by
presidents. Sister Davis spoke on mothers.
Everything depends on mother, so how
careful we should be in our training; then
told the proper way of dressing for the

[Column 2]
Temple. Sister McLelland was delighted
to hear our reports and felt proud of our
beautiful building; related how she was able
to cheer and comfort a poor family. The
Prophet Joseph Smith has turned the key
for woman’s work; our work is pioneer
work. It is proper for the Relief Societies
to have clothes on hand for the dead. The
Lord makes us strong when we are trying
to do our duty. Related the way of laying
away our dead; spoke of the eight-hour law 
for women and girls; should not be extrav-
agant, but be consistent Latter-day Saints.
Meeting was brought to a close by singing
“O Jesus, the Giver.” Benediction by Coun-
selor Amelia Hoge.
	Dinner partaken of at Unity Cottage.
	Afternoon Session—Commenced at 2 p.
m., President N. E. Pugmire presiding.
Opened by singing “Count Your Many
Blessings.” Prayer by President W. Budge.
Singing “I Need Thee Every Hour.” Rep-
resentative Clark read a beautiful paper,
“Influence of Woman, and to My Son.”
Sister Davis said, shrink not from your duty
however unpleasant, but follow your Savior,
your pattern and friend. There are so many
temptations placed before our young, “I
Need Thee Every Hour;” do we keep the
Word of Wisdom? If we want the blessings
of the Lord we must keep His command-
ments. Set the right kind of an example
when we go through the Temple, follow in
the footsteps of our Savior, love our neigh-
bor as ourselves; read a letter from Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith on the way we should
do when going through the Temple; quoted
“I must do my duty because my parents
trust me,” and not yield to temptation; we
profess to be the best people on earth; we
teach Faith, Repentance, and Baptism. Let
our influence for good be felt. Our parents
have pioneered this country and when we
marry let it be in the right way. A song by
Brother Russell Shepherd entitled, “The
Great Redeemer Came.” Sister McLelland
followed. How fine it is to hear the beau-
tiful; we have 64 stakes and talent is ex-
hibited in each place. The young boys and
girls of today are our representatives of the
future.
	Professor Brimhall says that the experi-
ence of our Pioneers is becoming as fairy
tales to our children, but we should not let
things get away from us, let us be worthy
of all the good things said of us; when we
tell the outside people how independent our
women are, they wonder. Spoke of meet-
ing some of our Lamanite brethren and sis-
ters. We all have our own salvation to
gain. Read the testimony of our beloved
Prophet Joseph when a young man to the
world. Such a feast we have had today.
	President Joseph R. Shepherd said we
have had a beautiful time. No association
does more to help the bishops than do our
Relief Societies. While listening to reports,
how all have money drawing interest, think
they are good financiers, but think it is good
for us to have wheat on hand properly cared
for, in time of need; believe our Relief So-
cieties are doing much good in this stake.
Counselor Amy Cook was honorably re-
leased with a vote of thanks, and Sister
Millie Clark was then voted in as second
counselor in the Bear Lake Stake Relief
Society. The conference was then ad-
journed for another year after singing and
prayer.
				LOUISE TUELLER,
					Stake Secretary.


