With each some shadow flies,
With each some sorrow dies,
	Until at last
The red dawn in the east
Bids weary night depart,
	And pain is past,
Rejoice, then, grieving heart,
	The hours fly fast!
				—Selected.


[Column 1]&nbsp;[Image with the caption “JANE SNYDER RICHARDS.”
		IN MEMORIAM.
The harp strings may be shattered
And the rose leaves may be scattered,
	But the memory remaineth,
And the love that we have cherished
And the hope that we have nourished
	The immortal soul retaineth.
						—E. B. W.
	It matters not how long one may expect
death when the final summons comes there
is always something of a shock and a heart
throb not anticipated. So, though we had
known for some time of the illness of our
dearly beloved Sister Richards, still when
the word came that she had passed through
the portal of death it brought with it a
feeling of loneliness and of sorrow. A flood
of reminiscences passes before one’s mind
awaking thoughts of all that noble band of
pioneer Relief Society workers of which
Sister Richards was almost the last. Few
women can look back along the years with
such a record of worthy deeds as Sister
Jane Richards. A member of the Relief
Society in Nauvoo Sister Richards con-
tinued from that time on in the great work
of helping the distressed. She knew no place
to draw the line when there was a call for
help. She surely lived with the spirit of
Relief Society work ever in her heart and
with untiring and gentle zeal ministered to
the wants of thousands; she clothed the
naked, fed the hungry, comforted the dis-
tressed, admonished the erring and up-
braided not. The stranger ever found a
welcome within her home. She lived a life
of unbounded charity, truly one of God’s
noble daughters, who tried to the utmost to
do the Father’s bidding and forgot not the
commandment “Love thy neighbor as thy-
self.” Her name is held in loving remem-
brance by all those who worked with her

[Column 2]
and as has been written by one of her
friends, “In the community where she lived
her very name is held in reverence and es-
teem for her noble qualities of heart and
mind and the great good she has accom-
plished.”
	Jane Snyder Richards was born January
31, 1823, at Pamelia, Jefferson County, New
York. She was the daughter of Isaac and
Louisa Comstock Snyder, the former a na-
tive of Vermont, the latter of Massachu-
setts. Early in 1834 while living at East
Camden in the province of Ontario, Can-
ada, the Snyder family heard the gospel
preached by a traveling missionary and two
of the family, a brother and sister, were
converted. The brother visited Kirtland,
where he met the Prophet Joseph Smith,
and was afterwards sent as a missionary
among his own people and succeeded in con-
verting his father’s household. The Snyder
home became an open house for the mis-
sionaries and among them came the young
elder, Franklin D. Richards, whom the
young daughter, Jane, married in December,
1842, taking up their abode in Nauvoo. In
the first record of the Relief Society is writ-
ten the name of Jane S. Richards being ad-
mitted to membership at that memorable
meeting in 1844, where Emma Smith read
an epistle on Innocence. This was held
in April prior to the martyrdom of the
prophet, and was the last meeting of
which there is any record held in
Nauvoo. The Richards family left
Nauvoo in 1846 with the rest of the Saints,
enduring with them the trials and hardships
ncident to that historic exodus, but even
before reaching Winter Quarters the young
wife was called upon for another trial, her
husband having been called to Europe on a
mission and leaving his family on the way
to an unknown land. Twenty days after
his departure she gave birth to a son who
only lived a few days.
	Mrs. Richards remained at Winter Quar-
ters until 1848 when her husband returned
from England and together they proceeded
on their western pilgrimage, reaching the
valley in October of that year. Brother
Richards fulfilled a second mission to Eng-
land in 1856 and again this brave little
woman was left with great responsibilities,
in which, however, she proved her strength
of character and fortitude.
	The old Richards home in the Fourteenth
ward was for many years a landmark, being
one of the finest and most pretentious of
residences in the city, and it was the scene
of many splendid entertainments, the hos-
pitality of the owners being proverbial. In
1867 Apostle Franklin D. Richards was
called by President Young to settle in Og-
den and look after the building up of the
Weber stake of Zion. It was at this time
that Sister Richards began her active work
in the Relief Society cause, which never
flagged nor waned until forced to give it
up on account of failing health the last few
years of her life, though even then, when
unable to do the practical work, her interest
in the cause never ceased.


[Column 1]
	Her calling to the stake presidency of the
Relief Societies of the Weber stake marks
an epoch in Relief Society history. She
was the first stake woman officer in the
Church. The story has often been told of
that splendid gathering of the women of
Weber stake in the Ogden Tabernacle,
called by Sister Richards and attended by
President Brigham Young, Counselor
Daniel H. Wells, Franklin D. Richards and
many members of the Priesthood, Eliza R.
Snow, Emmeline B. Wells and other sisters
from Salt Lake City. Mrs. Richards pre-
sided and made a report of work done in the
different wards of Weber stake, both in the
Relief Society and the Young Ladies’ Re-
trenchment Association. President Young,
after complimenting Sister Richards on her
labors among the women and giving most
splendid instruction about the work required
of them, appointed Sister Richards to pre-
side over all the Latter-day Saint women in
Weber stake. This appointment was the
initiative in stake work among the women’s
organizations.
	Sister Richards held that position for a
period of over thirty-one years, when she
was honorably released upon the division of
the Weber stake, out of which three new
stakes were formed. In company with her
husband, she was many times a member of
President Young’s party traveling through-
out the different stakes of Zion and assisted
in organizing different societies and instruct-
ing the sisters along their lines of work.
Upon the death of Eliza R. Snow, when the
General Relief Society was reorganized,
Sister Richards became first counselor to
Zina D. H. Young, the new president. This
position necessitated frequent visits to Salt
Lake City to hold meetings of the general
officers, and many long trips throughout the
different stakes, attending conferences and
doing organization work, which work, how-
ever, she carried through most faithfully,
notwithstanding she still performed her ar-
duous labors as a stake president. Sister
Richards was a member of the board of
directors of the Deseret Hospital and en-
gaged actively in all the moves for develop-
ment in the Relief Society cause. She was
instrumental in the incorporation of the
Relief Society and its affiliation with the
National Council of Women, which oc-
curred in 1891 soon after the visit to Wash-
ington of Mrs. Richards, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Sarah M. Kimball and other notable Utah
women.
	Sister Jane Richards was a woman of
rare executive ability, an evidence of which
is the erection of the splendid stake Relief
Society building in Ogden city, built with
means raised by the women of the society
and used for purposes connected with their
work.
	She has held many important positions
among women and was recognized wher-
ever she went as a woman of strong per-
sonality and unusual ability.
	Notwithstanding her active and untiring
labor along charity, social and public lines,
her home was always the great center of her
best thought, and the loving tenderness she
extended to humanity was emphasized be-
yond expression in her home circle. Her
husband and children found no lack of at-
tention or devotion, but on the other hand,
had every desire anticipated, every attention
supplied. Her loyalty to her own home was
unexcelled with it all was the overwhelm-
ing power of divine faith in God’s work

[Column 2]
which actuated every act of this most hon-
ored and beloved mother in Israel.
	The last few years Sister Richards has
lived in retirement at the home of her most
devoted and attentive daughter, Mrs. Jose-
phine West. She has occasionally had visits
from loved friends and co-workers to whom
she has given many kind words to help them
on their way, but she has frequently said
she was ready to go when the summons
came. She passed away on Sunday after-
noon at a quarter to three. One cannot call
it death, so natural and beautiful is the last
sleep when so fully and gloriously has been
rounded out life’s measure. The following
beautiful verse by Sister Nellie Becraft,
one of Sister Richards’ stake officers, writ-
ten in honor of her eighty-seventh birthday,
fittingly portrays the last scene of her life in
touching words:

“And as the twilight deepens and the shadows
	closer creep,
May the  angels chant thee vespers while they
	their vigils keep,
And may thy King, thy Priest, thy Lord await
	thee by the shore,
To lead thee to celestial joys with Christ forever-
	more.

	More honor could not be shown than was
given Sister Richards in the large assem-
blage which gathered to pay their last re-
spects to her on the occasion of her funeral
which took place Wednesday, November
20th, in the Ogden Tabernacle. A
large number of friends and relatives from
