THE ELECTION.
	After the battle, the reaction. In military
warfare, the first thing after the struggle
and the decision who is the victor comes
the uniting of the forces and the peace
offerings.
	We trust this will be the present effort
after this great political struggle which has
recently swept over the country. The
American people have seldom engaged in an
election where so many issues seemed at
stake and such a division of thought existed,
but the fundamental principles of American
government are such that the people gen-
erally feel whatever political party holds the
reins of power there are always statesmen
enough to steady and control the beating
pulses of the people and lead them into safe
and prosperous channels. Governor Wood-
row Wilson is a statesman, and has proven
in his public career that he is a wise,
conservative and progressive leader, and
while there will necessarily be many great
changes in the administration of affairs, it
is only just to believe that the peace and
prosperity of the nation and the people will
be the first consideration of those who have
been chosen to govern.
	The people themselves have expressed
their choice and placed their trust in the
hands of the Democratic leaders; it now re-
mains to those leaders to prove the trust is
not misplaced. There is one mighty power
that rules all nations and all peoples, and
man is only the instrument in the hands of
God to accomplish His purposes. That the
Constitution of the United States is an in-
spired instrument and the organization of
this great republic was effected by inspired
men has always been the belief of every
Latter-day Saint and He who guided and
directed the great men of the past will also
guide and direct the great men of the pres-
ent and at all times in His own way work
out those problems which to mortal minds
seem incomprehensible.
	After the storm comes the calm. Now
should all parties unite for those methods
which will bring about the best results re-
gardless of past grievances and disappoint-
ments. The people have spoken through
their ballot and have elected Woodrow Wil-
son and his party to hold the reins of
government for the next four years.
Let us hope the people will now work for
the best interests of the nation with a
united effort and a fervent faith that
prosperity and peace may continue to pre-
vail over this great nation.


