CORRESPONDENCE.
AN INTERESTING LETTER FROM OUR GIFTED
	CONTRIBUTOR “HOPE”— NOW A
			MEXICAN REFUGEE.
Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	MY DEAR FRIEND: I have thought of
you and the days of Far West and Nauvoo
many times since that ever-to-be-remem-
bered 31st of July, 1912, when we breathed
a silent farewell to our dear mountain
home; and our little train of wagons and
with our small store of clothes and bedding
started for the railway station, seventeen
miles away. The rising sun was just shin-
ing through the pines as I climbed into our
wagon, the last one to start. I dared not
look back on the dear old home, the trees
and flowers we had loved and tended, the
fattened animals in seeming wonder why
they were not cared for and what the
strange thing meant, with our dear Ben’s
last kiss and “God be with you till we meet
again.” Oh, the hardest part was leaving
our men and boys behind. God alone and
those who passed through that day can
know, and the terrible anxiety of the days
and months that lie between that time and
this.
	Bro. Harris came to me in the after-
noon of Tuesday and the next morning
by seven o’clock, our town was left empty
and desolate, with only a few friendly Mex-
icans, whom we left in tears and with many
expressions of sorrow and regret,—I find
that even the remembrance of that day is
too much for me. So I will not dwell
long upon it; I hope that notes of this


exodus have been kept and that a history
will be written as that of Missouri and Nau-
voo has been. The assurance given that we
would be permitted to return was a help
to me throughout that long trying day.
	We reached the Union depot, El Paso,
at one o’clock in the morning. Bro. Geo.
Sevey met us there, saying as he helped me
down the steps, “Lulu is here too, and has
a room prepared, so do not worry.” We
had no idea of meeting her there, but were
too dazed and weary to even be surprised.
It seemed just the right thing, and surely
she has been a help and comfort in this
time of need. It has been a new experience
for her, hard and trying in many ways but
I do not think she will ever regret it; she
has learned a little of what her grandparents
and her father passed through, in the early
days of the Church, and I trust in blessing
others she will be blessed.
	We remained in El Paso one week, it
being the wish of the brethren to hold the
people as near together as possible, being
strong in the faith and hope that we would
soon be permitted to return, but that hope
and faint prospect failed, and the scattering
abroad began. We came to Blue Water,
while the main body of Chuichupa ward
were removed to Thatcher. The brethren
and sisters have been very kind to us, doing
all they could to help and make us feel at
home. The Bishop is a son of an old time
Mesa friend of ours, Brother C. R. Hakes,
former president of Maricopa stake, Ari-
zona, and he has given us and all refugees
a hearty welcome.
	The letters that come to us from our
friends in Mexico make the tears come.
They long for a word of encouragement and
hope, and there is a heart cry for home and
those from whom they are separated, but
there is a courage and faith that would
not shame that of our forefathers. The
motto of our dear Aunt Zina, “Make the
best of it,” has been theirs. We have been
driven from our hard earned homes, de-
spoiled of earthly possessions, but the hand
of God has been with us, and His power
has saved us from danger and death.
	Our people are sundered and scattered
and there are “winter quarters” in many
lands, but the hand that scattered can
gather again, therein is our hope.
There are few if any but what are strong
in the faith that every word in regard to
the promises and prophecies given of Mex-
co and the mission there will be fulfilled.
	I still cling to the parting words of
Apostle Richards, that the colonies were
there to stay, that it was a part of Zion,
and God could protect us there, but we were
not prepared for this chapter in our lives.
	Pray for us, dear friend, that the time
for our return be not far distant; pray
for stricken Mexico, that the redemption
of her people be not stayed. There are many
good people there, I do not think there is
any enmity in the hearts of those who have
come away against them.
	We miss the papers, the EXPONENT among
the rest, and are not well posted in the news
of the day.
	I hope that all is well with Zion, that the
clouds will be rolled away, and the mission
of the gospel spread abroad in the earth,
until the universal song shall be—
	“Peace on earth, good will to man.”
With love, your friend,
