WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THANKSGIVING DAY HALF A CEN-
			TURY AGO.
	More than half a century ago in a small
New England village where there was only
one “Church” and that was called a meet-
ing house, because to the old-style Puritans,
Church meant the Church of England, from
which their forefathers were dissenters,
Thanksgiving was a state occasion, with all
the ceremonials such a day implied. The
meeting house was decorated with ever-
greens from the woods near by, pine
branches, and hemlock boughs, and long
trailing vines, that keep fresh under the
thick carpet of fallen leaves, with the scarlet
red berries that give such warmth and tone
to the more somber, everlasting green; not
only the public places were thus ornamented,
but the dwelling houses of the villagers; but
here one also finds a variety of late autumn
and winter flowers; and plenty of good sub-
stantial well-cooked food, for notwithstand-
ing the widely-diffused religious sentiment,
there are festivities afterwards, and plenty
of feasting. The public service in the meet-
ing-house begun usually at eleven o’clock
a. m., and it was always special; the morn-
ing was observed as sanctimoniously as if
it was the Sabbath, by the Puritans, but
when meeting was over, there was a change,
even in the minister’s family.
	The service in the village meeting-house
on the particular day alluded to here, was 
very imposing for a small village; the treble
and alto singers were all in white, with pale
green ribbon and white chrysanthemums,
one would suppose to harmonize with the
decorations; the bass and tenor wore their
usual Sunday suits with a knot of green
ribbon in a button hole of their vests; a
village Yankee, of the male persuasion,

[Column 2]
would not have thought of wearing a flower
in meeting, those were only for girls and
women folks; at this remote date the writer
has not the least remembrance of the ser-
mon, (singers rarely do have), but the an-
them which had been practiced so long be-
forehand one never forgets—and this one
was “Lift up your heads, Ye Everlasting
gates—And let the King of Glory in, Who
is the King of Glory,” and so forth;—but
this is of little consequence compared to
other things, that transpired on such event-
ful days. In these rural villages one gen-
erally knows what is going on in other peo-
ple’s houses, even, though not clairvoyant,
to the details of the dinner; but enough
transpired in one house to make this sketch
sufficiently long, and to give an idea of the
olden time, when those who are grand-
mothers today were barely in their ’teens.
	Let me picture an old rambling house,
with low ceilings and great open fire-places,
and high mantel pieces, full to running over
with children, breathless with playing games
—and with calling to one another, from
garret to cellar—running about with ginger-
bread and maple sugar, eating all day long,
and upsetting the whole house, filling it with
noise and scattering crumbs and dirt over
the well-kept floors and furniture. All the
scolding and fretting of young Mamas’ and
Aunties’ of no avail—while sedate and dig-
nified the older members of the family
looked on and took no note of the uproar,
except to say now and then “let the little
ones alone, they are having their fun now.”
	Thanksgiving dinner, at a long table, in
a great square living room, with all the
homely characteristics of the time, passed off
pleasantly; of the many expected, almost
all were present; married sons and daugh-
ters with their children, and the young boys
and girls of this large family; all dressed
for the occasion and in the gayest of spirits
apparently, and yet there was somehow a
tinge of subdued melancholy, only percepti-
ble to those of prophetic temperament. The
day wore away, the children tired out with
play, were put in bed and the older mem-
bers grouped around the huge glowing fire
of pine knots, the blaze flickering and glim-
mering in the great square room, casting
dark shadows in the corners, and against
the paneling, making one feel that such is
an hour adapted specially to telling weird
stories, and singing sentimental songs.
Plenty of stories were told of adventure, of
wonderful escapes, by sea, and by land,
stories of the ships that went down, and
soldiers killed in battle, ghost stories and
tales of haunted houses, real and imaginary
intermingled with songs such as “Black
Eyed Susan,” “The Soldier’s Tear,” “The
Soldier’s Dream,” and many a characteristic
love song as well.
	Midnight found them all sitting singing
around the dying embers, the pale light of
the lamps only revealed paler faces, for they
were well aware that on the morrow they
must separate, and naturally the thought
comes, “When shall we all meet again?”
which was suggested in trembling accents
by the mother of this large family—but try
as they would and did, they could not quite
suppress the saddened feeling that came
after this comparatively happy day. And
would it have been even comparatively so,
if either one could have peered into the
future? Alas, no! Of all that met on that
Thanksgiving day, the few who still remain
are widely scattered, having but little in

[Column 3]
common, save the remembrance of child-
hood and early life, and the tie of kindred
which is never quite dissolved however far
apart lives are divided.
	Some have fallen asleep to wake no more
in this world, and some now far advanced
in years—live on in a green old age peace-
fully awaiting the summons which comes
alike to rich and poor, high and low. Two
brave stalwart men (one only a baby then)
gave their lives to their country, and died
on the battlefield, in the Civil War. Others
more fortunate (perhaps) were wounded
and suffered pain, and hardship, but still
live to tell the story of their many encoun-
ters and their well-earned honors. These
were the young men and boys—but what of
the women, and the girls? Scattered, mar-
ried, widowed, some with large families,
and others with small ones, and still others
sleeping the sleep that knows no waking.
Were I to tell you all, it would indeed be a
romance in real life with plenty of incidents,
embellished with the charms that we imagine
only abound in fiction.
	Don’t fancy, however, that all these young
people remained in the Old Bay State—Oh, 
no indeed! They have been to the islands
of the sea, have sailed around the world in
great ships to far off India, and eaten raw
fish on the South Sea Islands, have told us
since of the beautiful long-haired tattooed
women of New Zealand, and of the darker,
stouter, plainer ones of Madagascar. They
do not all believe in one religion, notwith-
standing their Puritanical teaching. Some
are still Congregationalists, however, and
still keep Thanksgiving after the former day 
manner; and others have embraced widely
different faiths.
	But there is a chain known to some of
those who sat around the fireside in that
rambling old house on that Thanksgiving
day in the “long ago” that will bring that
family group and many another together
again in the great future, father, mother,
sons and daughters, with all their numerous
posterity however widely separated, and
whether they have died in foreign lands, or
at home, or even been buried in the depths
of the ocean. And for this precious boon,
the Everlasting Gospel, with its powers and
blessings, on this Thanksgiving day—there
is abundant cause for rejoicing, even though
the house is lonely and the heart sad with
memories of the days that have been, when
happiness and mirth abounded, and sweet
voices, now forever hushed, were wont to
make such music as we shall never know
again on earth, and yet these same sweet
faces we see as ’twere through the mist of 
falling tears, and the voices echo in the
stillness, until we fancy the curtain of the
unseen is lifted, and we are passing into the
unknown.
