			SARAH E. RUSSELL.


[Column 1]
FOUR MORE STATES FOR SUFFRAGE.
	The last election brought great joy into
the ranks of the suffrage workers, four
states, Kansas, Michigan, Oregon and Ari-
zona, each voting for equal suffrage. The
fact that Michigan has come under the ban-
ner is very gratifying, for it is an opening
in the middle and eastern states which will
certainly have good effect. The progressive
west is rapidly falling in line, and any keen
observer will see that those states where
equal suffrage obtains are the ones making
the most rapid progress in educational and
industrial lines. The earnest and unselfish
work of the women is making itself felt in
all matters pertaining to the uplift and bet-
terment of humanity. It is seen that the 
women give intelligent thought and study
to economics and are endeavoring to obtain
through public sentiment those reforms that
will bring the greatest benefit to the home,
the school, and the commonwealth.
	The National Suffrage Association ex-
pressed their exultation over the recent vic-
tory with a mammoth street parade along
the famous New York street, Fifth Ave-
nue. There were twenty thousand women
in the parade carrying torches, banners, etc.
The procession was thus described by the
Associated Press:
	Twenty thousand cheering and singing
women and men celebrated with a brilliant
parade in this city tonight the recent addi-
tion of four stars to the woman suffrage
flag.
	Through Fifth Avenue a stream of flaring
vermilion lights shone for miles, its course
guided by “votes for women” enthusiasts
from all parts of the country. Each of the
10 “suffrage states” was represented by
women leaders in the equal suffrage move-
ment there. “Ohio, the eleventh” read a
transparency at the head of one of the
divisions.
	When the parade was over, women
mounted platforms and soap boxes in Union
square and for several hours made speeches
for “the cause.” Thousands of persons
crowded about to listen. Several hundred
thousand others had lined Fifth Avenue to
watch the marchers.
	Four floats and a half dozen gold chariots
featured the parade. Each float and chariot
represented one of the 10 suffrage states,
including Kansas, Michigan, Arizona,
and Oregon, where the right to vote was
given to women in the last election. “Kan-
sas for liberty” read a transparency. “Mich-
gan for co-operation,” “Oregon for free-
dom,” and “Arizona for justice” were other
texts.
	A score of women trumpeters braving the
chill night air, wore sweeping white robes
instead of furs and long coats and sounded
the strains of the march from “Aida,” led
the long line. Only a few of the suffrag-
ists, the very elderly among them, rode in
carriages. Nearly every nationality, not ex-
cepting China, was represented.
	Each marcher carried at cane’s-length a
vermilion lantern. In their light a thousand
flags fluttered. “Votes for women,” each
read in black letters. Hundreds of banners
bore other inscriptions.
	“I voted an hour before leaving my
state,” announced a banner carried by Dr.
Maud Parker, of Seattle.
	The young women who represented the
states on the “victory float” were:
	Arizona, Miss Clark Pope; Michigan,

[Column 2]
Miss Fola La Follette, daughter of Senator
La Follette; Oregon, Miss Anna Squire;
and Kansas, Miss Pearl Squire.


