SELF-SACRIFICE.
Paper Read at Tooele Relief Society Stake
			Conference.
	This subject is one which appeals to every
mother and it is difficult to establish any
rules which would govern all families con-
cerning the self sacrifice which should be
practiced in an ideal home; first, between
mother or parents and children, and second,
between older and younger children.
	I think that in the majority of homes too
much self sacrifice is expected of the mother.
	The compensation which the mother re-
ceives for the sleepless nights, watchful care,
sympathy and never tiring devotion to her
family, is the love which they give her, and
during the infancy of her children this com-
pensates for all. But as the children grow
older they should learn that true love does
not mean only to tell mother that they love
her, but willing and cheerful obedience, and
sharing the trials and labors of the home
are greater proofs of love than words alone.
	The basis of loving service is found in the
mother who attends to all the needs of her
little ones. Many times her duties would
be disagreeable and irksome if she had to
perform them for a stranger; but all un-
pleasantness is lost in the mother-love.
	The mother’s loving service follows a
child to manhood, and he is never too old
to need her tender care. There is one dan-
ger, that she is apt to wait upon her child
to such an extent that he will think mother’s
only duty is to serve him.
	We have all seen children harsh and cruel
to the most loving mothers.
	It is a strange fact that loving service
does not always command respect and love
in return. In order to truly love, children
must serve as well as be served.
	Why do we sometimes see a husband and
wife unhappy together? One great reason
is that only one of the two serves and the
other one receives.
	In order that both husband and wife love,
they must both serve and sacrifice their in-
clinations and desires for the sake of each
other.
	Sometimes it is necessary for a wife to
sacrifice something she has planned for a
long time, sometimes a recreation, or a habit,
or a pleasure; but if she does so willingly
she does not lose her own pleasure; and in
return the husband will be willing to make
a sacrifice of his pleasure for the wife’s
comfort.
	Love begets love. The love in our hearts
must be kept warm by loving service and
sacrifice, or it dies.
	It is difficult to come to any decision in
regard to what extent self sacrifice should
be practiced between older and younger
children.
	I always feel sorry for an only child in
a family. There is an incomplete develop-
ment where a child has no brothers or sis-
ters, no one to share his play, no one’s
pleasure to consider but his own, and no
chance for self sacrifice to be practiced.
	How pleasant a spirit we find in the home
where the older children are willing to lay
aside a plaything, a doll, or an interesting
story in order to relieve the tired mother of
the care of her baby for a little while, or

(Column 2)
to interest the younger members with a
game or a story.
	It often happens that the youngest mem-
ber of the family demands so much atten-
tion that the older children would have no
time for their own recreation if they yielded
to every demand, but judgment must be
used by the parents lest the little ones be-
come too selfish or willful.
	In a well governed home, each member
of the family, even down to the youngest,
must feel that the home circle is not com-
plete without her.
	To each boy and girl should be assigned
some task, duty and responsibility out of
the many required to keep the household
machinery in good running order.
	They must be made to feel the importance
of their part and to know if they neglect it
trouble and disappointment will follow.
	The training which comes from doing
even one or two things without fail each
day will soon make a boy or girl one to be
trusted and the boys and girls who can be
trusted will make men and women who
are wanted everywhere because they can
be depended upon.
	Many a mother grows old, faded and
feeble long before her time, because her
boys and girls are not thoughtfully consid-
erate and helpful. When they become old
enough to be of service in a household
mother has become so used to doing all
herself, to taking upon her shoulders all the
care, that she forgets to lay off the burden
little by little on those who are so well able
to bear it. It is partly her own fault, to be
sure, but a fault committed out of love and
mistaken kindness for her children.
