
Woman's Exponent.
VOL. I.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1872.	NO. 1.


NEWS AND VIEWS.
	Women are now admitted to fifty Ameri-
can colleges.
	Rev. De Witt Talmage is pronounced a
success as a sensation preacher.
	Theodore Tilton says the best brains in
northern New York are wearing white hats.
They might wear chapeaux of a more objec-
tionable color.
	Daniel W. Voorhees in one day destroyed
the political record of a life-time, and that
was when he became henchman to a judge
with an eclesiastical mission.
	An Alabama editor writes “United State,”
and refuses to write “United States”—a
straw to show how Southern sentiment runs.
What a state he must be in?
	The season of scattering intellectual filth
has set in over the country. It occurs quad-
rennially in the United States, commencing
a few months before the Presidential elec-
tion.
	Dr. Newman failed to become a Bishop at
the Methodist General Conference, and Dr.
Newman mourns this second great defeat,
He has remembrances of Salt Lake in con-
nection with the previous one.
	Great outcry is raised against the much
marrying of the Latter-day Saints. The
tendency of the age is to disregard marriage
altogether, but there seems no indication of
a desire to have the race die out.
	The “Alabama” muddle like “confusion
worse confounded" becomes worse mixed
the more it is stirred. It stretches itself
over the path of time, and “like a wounded
snake drags its slow length along.” The
country has become heartily sick of it.
	Some Eastern journals head their Utah
news with “Deseret.” With keen appreci-
ation of the coming and inevitable, they ac-
cept the mellifluous name chosen for the
region wrested by that industry which
“the honey bee” represents, from the barren
wilds of nature.
	George Francis Train sends us a bundle of
Train Ligues. The compliment is appre-
ciated, but the act is like sweetness wasted.
We can vote, but not for “the next Presi-
dent of America.” Utah has not become
Deseret yet, nor can it participate in Presi-
dent making.
	The last week of May, 1872, will be me-
morable in American annals as the first time
since the first ordinance of secession was
passed in the South, that both houses of
Congress had their full list of members.
Statesmanship can retain a complete Federal
legislature, but the article has grown some-
what scarce.
	To pardon the worst class of criminals on
condition that they emigrate to the United
States, is growing in favor with European
monarchies. Germany and Greece so far
have done the largest business in this line,
the latest batch of villains thus disposed of
being the Marathon murderers from Greece.
Orders have been forwarded by President
Grant to New Orleans, to which port it is
understood they have been sent, to prevent
their landing. They should be captured,
ironed, returned to Athens with Uncle Sam-
uel’s compliments, and a bill for direct and
“consequential” damages presented.
	News comes from France that trailing
dresses for street wear are going out of fash-
ion. So many absurd and ridiculous fashions
come from Paris that the wonder is thinking
American women do not, with honest repub-
lican spirit, reject them entirely. This lat-
ter one, however, is so sensible that its im-
mediate adoption will be an evidence of good
sense wisely directed.
	The anti-Mormon bill of Judge Bingham
seems to have fared no better in the judi-
ciary committee of the House of Represent-
atives than the one to which Mr. Voorhees
stood sponsor. It is gratifying to think that
a majority of that committee yet respect the
antiquated and once revered instrument
still occasionally referred to as the Constitu-
tion.
	Rev. James Freeman Clark claims “that if
it is an advantage to vote, women ought to
have it; if a disadvantage men ought not to be
obliged to bear it alone.” Speaking from ex-
perience we feel safe in affirming that the Rev.
gentleman is right, and we hope for a time
when this immunity may be universally enjoy-
ed by our pure-minded and light-loving sisters.
We don’t presume that those belonging to the
opposite class care anything about it.
	Mrs. Carrie F. Young, editor of the “Pa-
cific Journal of Health,” has been lecturing
in Idaho on Temperance and Woman Suf-
frage. The editor of the “Idaho World”
was not present, but did not regret his ab-
sence. He says, “We feel a most decided
repugnance to the exhibition of a woman
upon the rostrum, advocating such degrad-
ing theories as ‘woman suffrage’ and other
cognate subjects.” He omits to state
whether “Temperance” is one of the “de-
grading theories” to which he refers.
	Force is ever the argument of a bad
cause. The principles which cannot be over-
come except by the exercise of physical
power, present a front that arrests the atten-
tion of thinking minds. Where argument
fails and force is employed to overcome an
opponent, the power of the principles to
which opposition is made is admitted. Will
those who urge repressive legislation against
the people of Utah think of it? Witness
the Voorhees bill as an illustration.
	A notable event, as a result of the late
terrible Franco-German war, is the opening
of the German University in Strasbourg,
which takes place June 1st—to-day. That
famous city on the Rhine, after a siege me-
morable in the annals of warfare, passed
into the hands of the Germans, and now
they take the surest means to permanently
consolidate their power, by establishing
there one of those seats of learning for which
Germany has become enviably famous.
	Miss Susan B. Anthony, it is said, de-
clared before the Cincinnati Convention met,
that if it gave her cause “the cold shoul-
der,” she would go to Philadelphia and
pledge the ballots of the women of America
to U. S. Grant. As the women of America
are yet without ballots, and as it is very
questionable, if they had them, whether they
would authorize any single individual to
pledge them for any candidate, the supposi-
tion is fair that Miss Anthony possesses too
much good sense to have made any such
declaration.
	Rev. Mr. Peirce, a Methodist clergyman
who has made Salt Lake his headquarters
for some time, in lecturing east proposed
the extinction of polygamy by the introduc-
tion here of vast quantities of expensive
millinery goods, and by inducing “Gentile”
women to dress in gorgeous style that “Mor-
mon” women might imitate them and run
up such heavy dry goods bills that it would
be impossible for a man to support more
than one wife, if even one. Mr. Peirce, no
doubt, preaches modesty and humility occa-
sionally, by way of variety; now he recom-
mends the encouragement of pride, vanity
and extravagance to accomplish his “Chris-
tian” designs. The course he advises has
been largely followed in many places, has
tenanted brothels, aided to fill prisons, bro-
ken up families, hurled women of reputa-
tion and position down to degradation and
infamy, and has met heavy denunciations
from inspired men whom Mr. Peirce profes-
ses to revere. He would steal the livery of
evil to serve religion in. There is not much
of this reverend gentleman, and what little
there is must be either very silly or very
wicked.
	The editor of “The Present Age” has
been to a church and heard an orthodox ser-
mon, in which the preacher took occasion to
say that all religious “isms,” including Mo-
hammedanism, Mormonism and Spiritual-
ism, rested their claims for being true “upon
miracles.” The “Age” is a Spiritualist and 
denies that his “ism” basis its claims to be 
true upon miracles. Latter-day Saints deny
that Mormonism basis any claim for cre-
dence in it on miracles; the reverse is the
truth. The “Age” defines a miracle to be
"the setting aside for the time being of a
natural law to meet an unexpected emer-
gency.” Had he said a miracle was the
bringing into operation of certain natural
laws not generally understood or compre-
hended, he would have been nearer correct.
When somebody can tell how a natural law
may be or can be set aside, except by the
operation of some other natural law, his defi-
nition, which is the generally received one,
may be entitled to more consideration. We
imagine the working of the overland tele- 
graph is as great a miracle to the Cheyenne
Indians as any recorded miracle that the 
“Age” or the orthodox minister can quote.
	Mrs. Laura De Force Gordon attended the
Cincinnati Convention and claimed a seat as
a delegate from California. Her claim was
treated with hisses and laughter. She took
a position in front of the stand and endeav-
ored to speak, but her voice was drowned
by a tumultuous discord. Her persistence
in seeking to address an assemblage that
treated her claim in such a manner was un-
dignified; while the action of the Conven-
tion in receiving her with hisses and uproar-
ious laughter, was disgraceful. The Liberal
Republicans assembled in Cincinnati for a
general work of purification and reform, evi-
dently stood greatly in need of general re-
form themselves, in the matter of manners
as well as in politics. Mrs. Gordon was as
much entitled to a seat in that Convention
as Carl Schurz himself, for we have yet to
learn that the call for it specified that
“male” Republicans only were admissable.
	A new periodical in London is called
“The Ladies.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE FEMALE RELIEF SOCIETY.

A BRIEF SKETCH OF ITS ORGANIZATION AND WORK-
INGS IN THE CITY OF NAUVOO, HANCOCK CO., ILL.

			BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

	According to authentic testimony, an organi-
zation, of which the present Female Relief
Society is a fac-simile, has always existed when
the Church of Jesus Church has been fully
organized. “Elect lady,” as it occurs in the
New Testament, has direct reference to the
same—alluding to one who presided over this
Institution. See 2d Epistle of John, 1st verse.
	The first organization of this Society, in the
present dispensation, was effected on the 17th of
March, 1842, by Joseph Smith, President of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
assisted by other prominent Elders. His
apology for deferring the organization till that
period, was the great pressure of duties, labors
and responsibilities, which devolved upon him.
By his suggestion a meeting was appointed in
the Masonic Hall, and a limited number in-
vited.
	Perhaps a few extracts from the "Minutes of
the Organization," would be interesting,—they
being too lengthy for insertion in full:
			"NAUVOO LODGE ROOM,
						March 17, 1842.
	Elder John Taylor was called to the chair,
and Elder Willard Richards appointed secre-
tary.
	Meeting commenced by singing 'The spirit of
God like a fire is burning,' etc. Prayer by
Elder Taylor.
	When it was moved by Pres. Smith, and
seconded by Mrs. Cleveland, that a vote be
taken to know if all are satisfied with each
female present, and are willing to acknowledge
them in full fellowship and admit them to the
privileges of the Institution about to be formed.
Vote unanimous.
	Prest. Smith addressed the meeting to illus-
trate the objects of the Society; that the Society
of sisters might provoke the brethren to good
works, in looking to the wants of the poor,
searching after objects of charity, etc., to assist,
by correcting the morals and strengthening the
virtues of the female community, and save the
Elders the trouble of rebuking, etc. He pro-
posed that the sisters elect a presiding officer to
preside over them, and let that presiding officer
choose two counselors; that he would ordain
them, and let them preside over the Society,
just as the Presidency preside over the Church;
and if they need his instruction—ask him—he
will give it from time to time.
	Let this Presidency serve as a Constitution.
If any officers are wanted to carry out the de-
signs of the Institution, let them be appointed
and set apart, as Deacons, Teachers, &c., are
among us.
	The minutes of your meetings will be prece-
dents for you to act upon.
	He then suggested the propriety of electing a
Presidency to continue in office during good be-
havior, or so long as they shall fill the office
with dignity, &c.
	Motioned by Mrs. Whitney, and seconded by
Mrs. Packard, that Mrs. Emma Smith be
chosen President; passed unanimously.
	On suggestion of Prest. Smith, the Presi-
dentess Elect made choice of Mrs. Sarah M.
Cleveland and Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney
for Counselors.”	
	After which the ceremony of ordination was
performed: “When Prest. Smith resumed his re-
marks, giving instruction how to govern them-
selves in their meetings, what order to observe,
how to regulate discussions, &c., &c., and con-
cluded by saying, ‘Do not injure the character
of any one; if members of the Society shall con-
duct improperly, deal with them, and keep all
your doings within your own bosoms, and hold
all characters sacred.’
	It was then proposed that Elder Taylor
vacate the chair. Prest. Emma Smith and her
counselors took the chair; and
	Elder Taylor moved, seconded by Prest. J.
Smith, that we go into an investigation respect-
ing what this Society shall be called; which
was carried unanimously."
	(The discussion which was lengthy and inter-
esting, is wholly omitted.)
	"By unanimous vote, Miss Eliza R. Snow
was appointed Secretary, and
	Miss Phebe M. Wheeler Assistant Secretary,
and
	Miss Elvira A. Coles, (the late Mrs. Holmes)
Treasurer.
	Prest. J. Smith said, ‘I now declare this So-
ciety organized with President and Counselors,
&c., according to Parliamentary usages, and all
who shall hereafter be admitted into this So-
ciety must be free from censure, and received
by vote.'
	Elder Taylor addressed the meeting by say-
ing that he is much gratified in seeing a meet-
ing of this kind in Nauvoo; his heart rejoices
when he sees the most distinguished characters
stepping forth in a cause which is calculated to
bring into exercise every virtue, and give scope
to the benevolent feelings of the female heart;
he rejoices to see this Institution organized ac-
cording to the law of Heaven; his prayer is,
that the blessings of God and the peace of
Heaven may rest on this Institution, hence-
forth.
	After singing ‘Come let us rejoice,’ &c., the
meeting adjourned for one week. Dissmissed
by prayer.”
	Before retiring, each gentleman present gave
a liberal donation to commence the funds of the
Institution.
	The following lines were found written on a
scrap and lying on an open Bible in the room
where, and at the time when, the Society was
organized; which have been carefully preserv-
ed and transcribed as an appropriate frontis-
piece to the F. R. S. Book of Records.
	"O Lord, help our widows and father-
less children! So mote it be. Amen.
With the SWORD and the WORD of
TRUTH, defend Thou them. So mote it
be. Amen.”
		(TO BE CONTINUED.)


F.R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
	Mrs. A M. Frodsham, Secretary of the F. R.
Society of Ogden, favors us with a report of a
meeting held at that place April 25, 1872, in
which she states that the general spirit of the
Society is to do all they can for the good of the
poor, and whatever may be required at their
hands; and as the meeting was largely attend-
ed there seems to be no lack of interest taken
for the promotion of good by the Society of sis-
ters in that city.
	We acknowledge a handsome subscription
list to the EXPONENT through Mrs. Frodsham.
	A LENGTHY and interesting report of a
meeting of the Fourth Ward Female Relief
Society of Provo, held May 20th, has reached
us. The occasion was the fourth anniver-
sary of the organization of the Society, and
the report shows that the ladies there are
awake to the duties and privileges pertain-
ing to such organizations. President A. O.
Smoot and Bishop Follett were present, and
participated in the proceedings, which were
opened by prayer, and singing by Mrs. War-
ner and daughters. A suitable repast was
prepared for the occasion, of which the aged
and indigent were especially invited to par-
take, and goodly portions were conveyed by
the committee to families belonging to the


Ward who were in destitute circumstances;
their motto being, “The poor to be filled
first, the treasury next.”
	Appropriate remarks were made, songs
sung, toasts and sentiments given, and an
excellent time was passed by all present.
	Particular reference is made to the sing-
ing of a little Indian girl, seven years old,
whose father had threatened her life and
whose mother, by stratagem, got her away
and gave her to Mrs. I. Snow; her song be-
ing “I am nobody’s darling,” sung in so
touching a manner as to bring tears to many
a mother’s eyes.
	The Treasurer’s report showed that since
the organization of the Society, $881.46 had
been received by donation, of which $486.60
had been given to the poor, leaving in the
treasury $389.75.
	Very good for the Society, of which sister
R. A. Holden is President, and sister L. W.
Kimball Secretary


﻿	PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT.
“THERE, IS NO EXCELLENCE WITHOUT LA-
				BOR.”
(Read before the Retrenchment Society, Salt Lake City.)
	The development of the moral and intel-
lectual faculties of every person depends,
chiefly, on his or her energies and industry
in study. By continually seeking and ac-
quiring knowledge our intellects expand,
and we thirst for more intelligence and grow
eager for further advancement: labor and
perseverance attain to eminence!
	Having a knowledge that God is our Fa-
ther, and that He holds us accountable
for the use we make of the talents He
has given us, how necessary it is that we
should cultivate and improve those God-
given germs and apply them to usefulness in
his kingdom. We are living in the day
when the Priesthood of God is on the earth,
and through the great mercy of God man
partakes of its blessings; we are not left in
darkness and ignorance like those who have
not received the fulness of the Gospel. We
have many advantages which others do not
possess; we have means for acquiring a
higher development of mind and of obtain-
ing knowledge which is of the greatest
worth.
	We make ourselves what we are to a great
extent. Faithfulness in improving the
mind is always crowned with success; dilli-
gent searching for that knowledge which
pertains to righteousness never loses its re-
ward. Realizing this, we have everything
to encourage us to renewed dilligence and
perseverance; true to the maxim, “There
is no excellence without labor.” Then, my
young friends, let us not waste precious
time in decorating our bodies after the vain
and unbecoming fashions and frivolities
which surround us, but devote our energies
to the adorning and beautifying of our men-
tal and physical faculties, that we may be
prepared for future usefulness in the King-
dom of God.					M. A. F. J.


THE DINNER HORN.
	Josh Billings discourses thus on the “ Din-
ner Horn:" This is the oldest and most sa-
kred horn thare iz. It iz set to musik, and
plays “Home, Sweet Home,” about noon.
It has bin listened tew with more rapturous
delight than ever Graffula’s band has. You
ken hear it further than you ken one of Mr.
Rodman’s guns. It will arrest a man and
bring him quicker than a Sheriff’s warrant.
It ken outfoot any other noise. It kauses the
deaf to hear and the dumb to shout for joy.
Glorious old instrument!


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


REMEMBER THY MOTHER.
Lead thy mother tenderly
	Down life’s steep decline;
Once her arm was thy support,
	Now she leans on thine.
See upon her loving face
	Those deep lines of care;
Think—it was her toil for thee
	Left that record there.

Ne’er forget her tireless watch
	Kept by day or night,
Taking from her step the grace,
	From her eye the light
Cherish well her faithful heart,
	Which, through weary years,
Echoed with its sympathy
	All thy smiles and tears.

Thank God for thy mother’s love,
	Guard the priceless boon;
For the bitter parting hour
	Cometh all too soon.
When thy grateful tenderness
	Loses power to save,
Earth will hold no dearer spot
	Than thy mother’s grave.


REARING OF CHILDREN.
Ah! what would the world be to us
	If the children were no more?
We should dread the desert behind us
	Worse than the dark before.

What the leaves are to the forest,
	With light and air for food,
Ere their sweet and tender juices
	Have been hardened into wood;

That to the world are children;
	Through them it feels the glow
Of a brighter and sunnier climate
	Than reaches the trunks below

Come to me, O ye children!
	And whisper in my ear
What the birds and winds are saying
	In your sunny atmosphere.

For, what are all man's contrivings.
	And the wisdom of his books,
When compared with your caresses,
	And the gladness of your looks?

Ye are better than all the ballads
	That ever were sung or said;
For ye are living poems,
	And all the rest are dead.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS
	THERE is a true dignity in labor which 
the very indolent or those who are so nar-
row-minded as to think it disgraceful to
work cannot comprehend.
	Lady Montague sensibly remarks, "The
most minute details of household economy
become elegant and refined when they are
ennobled by sentiment; and they are truly 
ennobled when we do them either from a 
sense of duty to a parent, or love for a hus-
band." And another careful authoress has 
written, "The most beautiful domestic ar-
rangements are those which most resemble 
the fair face of a watch, while all the wheels
and springs are entirely out of sight, and
only known to exist by the regularity and
order with which their results are brought
about. This is the perfection of the art and
can only be attained by knowledge and 
adroitness, with a strong desire to promote
the peace and happiness of the domestic cir-
cle. The training of unskilled hands, the
planning, providing, presiding, directing,
shaping and adorning must all be done, and
much more, but a calm, quiet home should
ever be secured."
	A very important item in the programme 
of domestic affairs is "the training of un-
skilled hands." How often do mothers re-
mark to their little daughters, "you are so 
slow and awkward, I would rather do it
myself than wait for you to do it." This is
poor encouragement for a new scholar, and
will soon engender in the feelings of the
child the disposition to think "mother can
do it so much quicker and better than I
﻿that I would rather not try to do it.”
When Is the child to learn how to do her
work quickly and neatly where such a course
is pursued? A little girl’s unpracticed
hands never appear so awkward in learning
to work as do those of a woman; and the
love of industry cannot be inculcated in the
mind too early.
	MRS. N. W., writing to the “American
Agriculturist,” says, “Housekeepers will
find it a great convenience to have two wash
boilers on washing day, one to reheat the
suds in, and the other and larger one to con-
tain the boiled clothes. It is as handy as
plenty of flat-irons on ironing day.” Every
one who has tried it knows this to be the
case.
	THE SAME writer adds, “Never make
buckwheat cakes of buckwheat alone; make
one part of corn meal, two of wheat flour and
three parts of buckwheat. They are then
spongy instead of being flabby. And in ma-
king bread, always use potatoes or nice
corn meal. Scald the meal first before ad-
ding the flour, and then set in the usual
manner. Besides the improvement in the
bread, the flour barrel holds out much longer
and health Is promoted. Put about one part
of corn to three parts of flour when setting
the sponge.”
	TO REMOVE AN OFFENSIVE BREATH.—
From six to ten drops of the concentrated
solution of chloride of soda in a wine glass
full of pure spring water, taken immediately
after the ablutions of the morning are com-
pleted, will sweeten the breath by disinfect-
ing the stomach, which, far from being in-
jured, will be benefitted by the medicine.
If necessary this may be repeated at noon.
In some cases the odor from carious teeth is
combined with that of the stomach. If the
mouth is well rinsed with a teaspoonful of
the solution of the chloride in a tumbler of
water, the bad odor of the teeth will be re-
moved.
	CURE FOR ASTHMA.—E. D. Baker, for-
merly editor of the Snow Hill “Herald,”
published the statement that he was perma-
nently cured of asthma of many years’ stand-
ing by the use of equal parts pulverized salt-
petre and sugar burned in the room. A
friend of his, so badly afflicted that she was
obliged to rest in her chair at nights for
months at a time, was also permanently
cured by this simple remedy. As it will
cost but a trifle and can do no injury, he re-
commends those afflicted with the distres-
sing disease to try this remedy.
	TO CLEANSE THE HAIR.—Barbers use car-
bonate of potash, known as salts of tartar, in
water, to shampoo with. It is better to use
a tablespoonful or two of common spirits of
hartshorn, in a basin of water; then thor-
oughly wash the scalp and hair until they
are clean; then wash with clean water, wipe
clean and apply a little oil or pomade.
	SILVER CAKE.—One cup of sugar, half
cup of butter, one-fourth teaspoonful of soda
dissolved in half teacupful milk, whites of
five eggs, three-fourths teaspoonful cream
tartar mixed in two cups of flour. Yolks of
the eggs and the same ingredients make
gold cake. Season the silver cake with
peach and the gold with lemon.
	JAPANESE CEMENT OR RICE GLUE.—In-
timately mix the best powdered rice with a
little cold water; then gradually add boiling
water until a proper consistence is obtained,
being particularly careful to keep it well
stirred all the while; lastly, it must be
boiled for one minute in a clean saucepan or
earthen pipkin. This glue is beautifully
white and almost transparent, for which
reason it is well adapted for fancy paper
work; which requires a strong and colorless
cement.


HINTS TO CARELESS WIVES.	
	How utterly is the peace of mind and	
comfort of many husbands ruined by the
carelessness and untidiness of their wives!
Let the wife reflect that upon her conduct
and disposition depend the happiness of a
man's home-life. Despair and recklessness
have often been planted in a man's heart by
the slovenly dress and cheerless hearth, the
sour looks and chilling discontent, which
await him where he ought to find the light
of love and the glow of domestic enjoyment.	
In all her trials the wife should earnestly
endeavor to make for her husband and house-
hold a happy and comfortable home; and
she will find at all times that a kindly wel-
come, and the "soft answer that turneth
away wrath," combined with a cheerful
smile, will go a long way toward securing
for herself and others that domestic felicity
which should be the aim and ambition of
her life.
	By pursuing such a course, a wife will
soften almost the hardest and most selfish
heart, and she will find that she can be a
source of peace and sunshine to all around 
her. 						A. W.
	Franklin


﻿THE PRESS.
			
	The following is from a speech delivered
by Dr. Chapin : "I love to hear the rum-
bling of the steam power press better than
the rattle and roar of artillery. It is silently
attacking and vanquishing the Malakoffs of
vice and the Redans of evil; and its parallels
and approaches cannot be resisted. I like
the click of the type in the composing stick
of the compositor better than the click of the
musket in the hands of a soldier. It bears a
leaden message of deadly power, of sublime
force, and of surer aim, which will hit its
mark, though it is a thousand miles ahead.”


﻿LIKES AND DISLIKES.
			—	
	It is so easy to form an opinion of a per-
son at first sight that we often do so, almost 
without knowing it. Even a theatrical per-
former will impress the audience with ei-
ther a favorable or an unfavorable sentiment
upon first appearance. Very frequent chan-
ges occur in our minds in relation to these 
things.  We may first see an actor represent
a mean, low, drunken character, which so
disgusts us that we can scarcely help feeling
an absolute dislike for the man who can so
well and naturally personify so degraded a
creature. But when he plays "Claude Mel-
notte," or “Matthew Bates,” and does it
well, we are apt to think he must possess
some nobleness of soul or he could not so
well display it, even on the stage. Yet in
either case the impression created may be
erroneous.
  The likes and dislikes which we form of
individuals passing to and fro on the great
stage of life, are just as liable to be wrong
as are those formed of the different casts in
a play.  We may be fairly dazzled at times
with a smooth-tongued, fine-looking hum-
bug, and ruthlessly slight a real, genuine,
noble man.


"Col. Horace Scott, Superintendent of the
Jeffersonville road, owns a dog that sits
upon a piano-stool, touches the keys with
the finest precision, rattles off ‘Shoo Fly’
and other pieces scientifically with his feet
upon the keys, and imitates a song with a
howl that undergoes all the musical inflic-
tions."  We decline to believe that while
there are anp sea-serpent stories to resurrect
and tackle to.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	L. L. GREENE, Editor.
   Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
   Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
  Address all business communications to
			Publishers Woman’s Exponent,
						Salt Lake City, Utah.
	SALT LAKE CITY, JUNE 1, 1872.


﻿SPLINTERS.
			—
Miss Mary P. Townsend has given $60,-
000 to the Home for aged and indigent fe-
males, the income of which is to be expen-
ded in the support of single women......
Mrs. Mary C. Rea is the first woman who
has made a pre-emption purchase of 160
acres of the public land in Montana......The
Pope has declined money tendered him by
the Italian Government.....It is reported that
Jay Gould has sold his interest in the Grand
opera house to Mrs. Fisk, who is now the
sole owner of the building......The Fall River
“News” states that four appointments of
ladies to important postoffices with $4,000
salaries, have been made during the present
administration......Mrs. Augusta A. Miller
is a compositor at South Bend, Indiana. She
learned to set type in her father’s office in
Angola, when only thirteen years old, and a
proof taken the other day of 9,000 cms,
shows but two typographical errors......Mrs.
M. A. Fay, of Boston, resigned her position
as one of the advisory board to the trustees
of the Industrial school for girls at Lancas-
ter, and the wife of ex-Gov. Claflin was ap-
pointed in her place......The Portland “Daily
Advertiser” says that Mrs. Jane P. Thurs-
ton has entered into correspondence with
Earl Granville, probably in reference to the
Alabama claims......The strikes of the vari-
ous trades in New York have every appear-
ance of being successful......A Democratic
State convention is called to meet at Ban-
gor, Me., June 18.......After a shooting af-
fray in New York, a few evenings ago, Paul
Lowe, son of ex-Gov. Lowe, of Maryland,
was arrested, charged with shooting three
men......The Coreans, fearing another visit
from the U. S. navy have intimated their
consent to treat with our Government
through the intermediacy of the Chinese
Prime Minister, Prince Kung, at Pekin......
The Wheeler and Wilson Sewing Machine
company have withdrawn their application
before Congress for an extension of the Wil-
son patent......Rev. Dr. Huston is on trial at
Baltimore, for alleged improper conduct
with some young ladies of his congregation
......In Des Moines, Iowa, and Hancock and
Adams counties, Ill., a late violent wind
and rain storm did much damage to or-
chards, fences, houses, etc......An unmarried
Chicago woman recently deliberately mur-
dered her illegitimate child, a boy six years
old......A short time since a laboring man of
Michigan tried to kill his wife, and suc-
ceeded in killing himself with a butcher-
knife and hatchet......Miss M. Miller is on
the reportorial staff of the “Salem Mer-
cury.”....“Dolly Varden” sausages are ad-
vertised for sale at one of the Salem, Oregon,
butcher shops......The Virgina and Gold
Hill water company are taking measures to
supply Virginia with water from the Sierra
Nevada Mountains.......The “Present Age”
and the “Golden Age” have been consoli-
dated.....The “Elko Independent” has been
enlarged......It is reported that Grant will
sign the bill for the admission of Utah,
should it pass Congress next session......The
Oregon State prison boasts of ninety unwil-
ling boarders......Brooklyn has been swin-
dled out of something like $200,000 on late
contracts......Voorhees is reported to have
abandoned his Utah bill, admitting that he
had been misled and deceived; and Butler,
Potter and Eldridge are opposed to any
further interference with Utah affairs......A
narrow-gauge railroad is projected from Salt
Lake to central Nevada......Reports from
Spain say Dr. Houard is to be released and
have his property restored to him......The
San Francisco “Pioneer” has changed its
form to quarto shape and appears in an ele-
[new column]
gant new dress....The Rock Island jail is
now without an occupant, for the first time
......There is no whisky shop in Salem, N.
C., and there has been but one fire there in
ninety years......Irene Zackler, of Keokuk,
Iowa, has been awarded a two thousand dol-
lar verdict against George Musgrove for
breach of promise......Perier, Boon and Bau-
din, the three who were convicted of parti-
cipation in some of the most outrageous acts
of the Commune, were executed at Sartory
......Mrs. Josephine McCarthy, who killed a
man last Fall, in Utica, has been liberated.
......In Persia, tens of thousands of people are
reported to have perished from hunger in
little more than a year......The strikes of the
factory girls in Britain have proved success-
ful in nearly all cases......Jane Johnson, a
colored woman of Cincinnati, came to her
death a few days ago from the effects of in-
temperance......James Gordon Bennett, the
great newspaper man, died this evening at
7.25 oclock, in the 71st year of his age......
Edith O’Gormon, the “Escaped Nun,” is in
this city and proposes to lecture here on
“Life in a Convent.”


﻿SALUTATORY.
			—
	In commencing the publication of a woman's
journal we realize, in some degree, the respon-
sibility of the undertaking. The task is a heavy
one, and we can only bring to its performance
earnestness, honesty and such limited ability
as has been vouchsafed to us. Though the first
number is issued to-day, the thought which
has fructified in its publication was not born
of yesterday. The projectors of WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, believing for some time that such a
a journal was needed, and seeing no others step-
ping forward to meet the want, took measures
to give shape and form to their ideas and hopes,
and the EXPONENT is the result.
  The large list of names already upon our sub-
scription book is an evidence that such a jour-
nal was demanded by the circumstances and
the times; and is encouragement for us to labor
dilligently to present for the consideration of
the public a paper that will meet approval, and
be a means of accomplishing good.
  In consequence of the failure of an eastern
firm, from whom the type and other material
for the EXPONENT was ordered, to ship at the
time desired, after waiting some weeks the or-
der had to be sent to California, and the conse-
quence has been a postponement of the date of
publication for a full month after that origin-
ally decided upon. The next number will bear
date June 15, and thereafter we hope to issue
regularly on the 1st and 15th of each month.
   So much by way of introduction and explan-
ation; and we hope before the expiration of the
first six months, our readers and ourself will be
better acquainted.


﻿OUR POSITION.
		            —
	A woman’s journal has come to be viewed as
exclusively a medium through which woman’s
rights and woman’s privileges must be discus-


sed and strenuously advocated, in contradis-
tinction to the rights and privileges of men.
That is not our mission. We have no special
need to advocate woman suffrage in Utah, for
it is enjoyed by the women of this Territory.
We have no particular wrongs to contend
against, inflicted upon us by our husbands, fa-
thers, brothers, or the male portion of the com-
munity ; and no special claims to champion,
throwing down the gauntlet against all comers.
Yet there is ample work for us to do. There is
truth to be disseminated, errors to be combat-
ted, intelligence to be communicated, the right
to be vindicated, and misrepresentations to be
corrected. We do not propose to speak for a
few of the women of Utah who with disap-
pointed hopes or perverted minds may be dis-
posed to rail in bitterness against principles
honestly entertained by a whole community,
and against a people to whom all must accord
purity of intent and sincerity of purpose. We
aim to speak for the women of Utah at large,
numbered by the thousand, who in a spirit of
noble self-sacrifice have assisted to build up
this prosperous community, many of them hav-
ing borne severe privation and hardships in so
doing; and who, while thus engaged laying the
foundation of greatness for a growing common-
wealth, have been slandered in the most mal-
evolent manner. We are of the people of Utah,
and for them; we are of the women of Utah,
and proud to be so recognized; and our object
is to sustain truth, spread a knowledge of cor-
rect principles and labor to do good.
   We have no rivalry with any, no war to
wage, no contest to provoke; yet we will en-
deavor, at all times, to speak freely on every
topic of current interest, and on every subject
as it arises in which the women of Utah, and
the great sisterhood the world over, are spe-
cially interested.
		---
	STATEHOOD.
		-
     A peaceable, orderly, industrious community
for nearly a quarter of a century; prosperous
cities, towns and settlements built up over an
extent of country reaching some five hundred
miles north and south; education fostered and
manufactures encouraged; a basis of perma-
nent prosperity in a well developed agricultural
system, and vast mineral wealth being daily
unearthed; a Territory free from debt, and a
population of over a hundred thousand souls
able to take care of themselves: These are
some of the claims Utah presents when asking
State sovereignty. The women of Utah, who
have helped to develop this region, and to make
of it what it has been made from an arid waste,
believe that Utah should cease to exist and that
Deseret should be received into the family of
States. And though it is not probable that
anything in this direction will be done during
the brief remainder of the present session of
Congress, it is to be hoped that next session
tardy justice will be done to the hardy pioneers
of the Great Basin.


PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG'S seventy-sec-
ond birthday finds him enjoying excellent
health and spirits, just as nearly all other days
find him. He dines to-day with his youngest
brother, L. D. Young; a limited portion of his
own family, and Judge Lorenzo Sawyer and
lady, from California, being participants. A
friend pronounced him seventy-one years old,
but still, “Young, as ever.”


﻿A Yankee doctor has contrived to extract
from sausages a powerful tonic, which, he
says, contains the whole strength of the ori-
ginal bark. He calls it sulphate of canine.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.				5


﻿	HOME AFFAIRS.
	
	IF YOU like the EXPONENT, get up a club for it.
For terms, see last page.
	CONTRIBUTIONS are respectfully invited on topics
of interest suited to our columns; but as our space is
limited, to insure early publication they should be
brief.
	IT IS reported that our next Grand Jury is to be
summoned and empanneled in accordance with the
Territorial statutes for the regulation of such mat-
ters.  At last!
	SECRETARIES of Female Relief Societies are
courteously invited to forward to the EXPONENT,
for publication, reports of the meetings and doings
of the various Societies.
	RAILROADS north and south, street cars for Salt
Lake and Ogden, gas works in the metropolis of the
Territory in a close future, buildings going up
everywhere; these are the evidences of our growth
and prosperity.
	WILL THE ladies in the different parts of the
Territory use their influence in getting up clubs for
the EXPONENT?  Several have laid us under obli-
gations in this direction already, and their efforts
are much appreciated.
	LAST WEDNESDAY Dr. H. J. Richards was
called to attend to a boy named Walker, of the
Twentieth Ward, whose face had been bitten by a
dog belonging to Mr. C. Napper. Teach dogs
better manners or chain them up.
	“THE REIGN of the Judges” in Utah has been,
if not glorious, at least notorious. It affords ano-
ther illustration of the proverb; “Man proposes,
but God disposes.”  Beaver, the latest scene of
judicial exploits, has our sympathy.
	A LETTER has been received by us from Mona,
containing money, with a request to forward the
EXPONENT, no name is appended.  We send the
paper addressed to the President of the Female
Relief Society at that place, hoping it will reach
the sender of the subscription.
	THE PEOPLE living in the extreme eastern and
in the north-eastern and south-eastern part of town
will doubtless be much gratified with the new meat
market in the Twelfth Ward, opposite the residence
of Bishop John Sharp, as it will enable them to
procure meat for their tables without being obliged
to go so great a distance as heretofore.
	SCHOOL FESTIVALS in different parts of the
Territory, got up on a large scale, have character-
ized the month of May just closed.  Such seasons
of enjoyment and innocent recreation have an ex-
cellent effect upon the young and impressionable
mind. The earth is not an abode of gloom and
misery, as some ascetics would fain make it appear;
nor is it altogether a mass of corruption lightly cov-
ered with floral beauties.  The bright sun shines
and the lovely flowers bloom for all; and children
carry through the journey of life fond memories of
such seasons of pleasure.


﻿A Missouri farmer attempted to smoke
out a rabbit, and burned up half a mile of
fence and over a hundred apple trees. But
he was successful; he caught the rabbit.


WOMAN'S RIGHTS AND WRONGS.
			
  The agitation of the woman’s rights ques-
tion aims at obtaining a broader recognition
for the rights of women, as a moiety of the
social structure, now deprived of many priv-
ileges it is contended they should enjoy, and
refused rights which it is claimed they
should possess equally with men. It is a
natural outgrowth of the restless spirit of
the age, which seeks to accomplish “re-
forms,” real and fancied, in numerous direc-
tions. There are many rights which woman
should possess yet of which she is denied by
custom and by statute law, but more espe-
cially by the former.  She should have the
right to live, and to live purely, and not be
compelled by the force of custom and fortui-
tous circumstances to seek a living death
that the physical body may be sustained.
And to secure her this right, she should
have access to every avenue of employment
for which she has physical and mental capa-
city.  As it is, large towns are overcrowded
with women workers, thousands of whom
struggle along on a miserable pittance, until
sheer starvation drives them to the worst
fate that can be imagined that life may be
sustained. Custom has said that woman
must only earn a living by a few circum-
scribed modes of employment; and although
there is a reaction against this worse than
absurd Idea, the custom still obtains too
largely, and the needle and midnight
candle are yet considered, by too many, the
proper appliances of woman’s sphere. Cus-
tom also says that if a woman does as much
work as a man, and does it as well, she must
not receive equal pay for it, and herein a
wrong is inflicted upon her by the depriva-
tion of a right to which she is justly enti-
tled.
	She should not be held more responsible
than man—if as much—for sexual crime.
As the world goes if she sins and falls the
ban of society is placed upon her, she is os-
tracised and driven deeper into a course of
wickedness, while her partner in guilt, her
tempter and destroyer, walks erect and una-
bashed, received, encouraged and it may be
petted by those of her own sex who would
spurn her as an unclean and loathsome thing.
He should be held equally degraded—more
so, as more culpable, and deserving the se-
verer penalty.
  It is held that by women possessing the
right to vote, they could exert a powerful
influence in the halls of legislation to rem-
edy many of the wrongs to which they are
subjected, and it is rightly so held ; yet
much depends upon women themselves, in-
dependent of the elective franchise, in
changing the tone of society and in mould-
ing custom, that all of the sex may receive
justice from each other as well as from men.
Wrongs are not confined to one sex, nor are
women the only ones who are deprived of
rights.  Class tyrannizes over class, and
thousands of both sexes have to mourn the
deprivation of rights which they should pos-
sess. And while men have mothers, sisters
and wives, while the sexes are bound to-
gether by ties of affinity and relationship,
the good that is accomplished for the one
sex will be felt and participated in by the
other. The rich man’s daughter or sister is
not exposed to the same peril from want as
the poor man’s often is. To her it may be a
matter of -indifference whether her sex can
become clerks, saleswomen, telegraphers,
phonographers, compositors, doctors and a
score of other things for which they have
capacity; or whether they receive half pay
or no pay at all; but to the masses of both
sexes, who know what each has to endure,
it should be a matter of paramount import-

ance that just rights should be enjoyed by
all.
	In the application of manhood suffrage a
wrong is inflicted upon the women of these
United States, as States—one which the wo-
men of Utah do not have to bear. While
the elective franchise is enjoyed by many
foreign born citizens who may be but poorly
informed on the exercise of that privilege,
and by the lately emancipated colored popu-
lation, millions of intelligent native-born
women are deprived of it, simply because
nature qualified them to become mothers
and not fathers of men. They may own
property, pay taxes, assist in supporting the
government, rend their heart-strings in giv-
ing for its aid the children of their affec-
tions, but they are denied all right to say
who shall disburse those taxes, how that
government shall be conducted, or who shall
decide on a question of peace or war which
may involve the lives of their sons, brothers,
fathers and hus ands.
	But when women seek to essay the role of
revolutionists instead of reformers, when
they set up one sex as of necessity antago-
nistic to the other, when they claim for wo-
men not liberty but license to set at defiance
wholesome social regulations and nature’s
laws, then they are endeavoring to compass
a wrong beside which the ordinary wrongs
of the sex sink into comparative insignifib
cance.
	The subject is too important for any other
than a brief introductory article at present,
but with the EXPONENT'S permission I will
take it up again.							E.


﻿ PEN AND SCIZZORS.
		      —
  Wood carpets are finding favor in New
York.
  A Wisconsin editor speaks of a wind which
“just sat on its hind legs and howled.”
	The raspberry and blackberry crop in Con-
necticut has been destroyed by the contin-
ued cold weather of March.
	An old lady says she hears every day of
civil engineers, and wonders if there is no
one to say a civil word for conductors.
	Why is a horse the most curious feeder in
the world? Because he eats best when he
has not a bit in his mouth.
	A farmer, to get rid of sewing-machine
“drummers,” whispers “small-pox” when
they appear. It works like a charm.
	The base-ball player was last heard of at
Keokuk, Iowa, where he knocked out a home
run, a girl’s eye and a newspaper item at
one fell swoop.
	Boston requires one million of tons of coal
per annum, or four thousand cargoes, an av-
erage of twenty cargoes per day, from April
to October.
	The Japanese have paper which is water-
proof, and of which garments, handkerchiefs,
hats, umbrellas and purses are made, and
of sufficient strength and pliability for any
use.
	Old lady to her niece—“Good gracious,
Matilda, but it’s cold. My teeth are actually
chattering.” Loving niece—“Well, don’t
let them chatter too much, or they may tell
where you bought them.”
	A negro preacher at a Georgia camp-meet-
ing told his hearers that they never could
enter heaven with whisky bottles in their
pockets, and urged them to “bring ’em
right up to the pulpit, and he would offer
'em a sacrifice to de Lord.” The conse-
quence was that the "shepherd” had "an
overflow of the sperrit” which took the stiff-
ness out of his joints, tied up his tongue and
rendered him incapable of holding forth.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.
		      —	  
  OF THE sixteen Hartford women who
wished to be made voters, two had never
been naturalized, two signed their “pet”
names instead of their real ones, and two
signed the given names of their husbands
instead of their own. Even if the applica-
tions were admissible, these six would be
ineligible.
	IT MAY not be known to many, that the
most expert telegraphers and phonographers
are to be found among women.  They read-
ily learn to be first-class type-setter; indeed
wherever there is indoor work to be well
done, where sobriety and integrity are es-
sential, there women ought to be employed;
and for the number engaged, we firmly be-
lieve they will prove to be more reliable for
the faithful performance of the duties in-
cumbent, than men.
	SPRINGFIELD, Mass., has elected Miss
Sarah J. Williams to be City Physician;
Twelve Doctors of Medicine in pantaloons
contended for the honor and emolument of
bleeding the Springfield paupers; and, wise
as they were, they were all beaten out of
the field by a woman; the Board of Health
considering, we are told, that “the majority
of patients coming under a city physcian’s
care are women and children, and their
cases such as a woman can best attend.”
	SOCIETY will not tolerate a woman who
objects to live with a drunken, brutal hus-
band. She married for better or for worse,
and though the man becomes worse, she
must pay the penalty.   Mrs. Nelson, wife
of Joseph Nelson, a blacksmith, living near
Sedalia, Mo., unable to live with her lawful
husband, tried to live away from him. So-
ciety said nay. Joseph said no, and made
her return. On Sunday, the 17th ult., after
she had returned home, he killed her. En-
lightened society!  Exalted husband—or
ought to be! Happy wife—in a better
world!
	A GENTLEMAN being in conversation with
a lady of this city, upon the “ insoluble ques-
tion,” remarked that the men of Utah pre-
tend to consider that women should hold
equal rights with men so far as they are ca-
pable; but that he saw no fairness in the
matrimonial proceedings here; for while
the woman has but one choice, the man may
have a chance to suit himself even should
he be disappointed in his first, second, or
other choice. The lady maintained that the
woman held an advantage to equal that, and
upon being interrogated as to what it was,
said, in vindication of her argument, that a
man, married or single, has no business to
fall in love with another man’s wife, but an
unmarried woman may fall in love with and
marry whom she pleases, whether he has a-
wife or not.  That was styled even weights.
	THE HOROSCOPE for March Is thus cast by
Josh Billings: “The man born this month
will be inclined tew blow a little.  He will
be a domestik man, and will know how tew
rok the kradle and pare potatoze.  He will
marry the only daughter of a widow, and
will be a good judge of mother-in-law.  He
will die about the usual time of life, and
leave a house and lot with a small mortgage
onto it. He will never run for offiss but
once and then will get beat. The woman
who appears this month will be an old maid
until she is twenty years old, and then will
suddenly put a stop tew this kind of bizz-
ness by investing in a yung man.  She will
be a good housekeeper, and know how to
make a plum pudding with the plums left
out.  She will hang on to her buty till she is
about forty-five; after that she will have to
take her chances.”
	THE HOUSE OF COMMONS has before it an
admirable measure for the better protection
of infant life, destined to strike a fatal blow
at the horribly outrageous system of baby
farming.  The bill provides that it is unlaw-
ful to retain or to receive for hire or reward,
two or more infants under the age of one
year, to maintain them apart from their pa-
rents for a longer time than twenty-four
hours, without first obtaining a license from
a justice of the peace. This license is only
to be granted on the certificate of a clergy-
man or other responsible parties.  Six
months’ imprisonment or a heavy fine is the
punishment for the infringement of this
rule; and the license may be instantly re-
voked if the justice of the peace is satisfied
that the child is in an unsatisfactory state of
health. The death of an infant who is un-
der the care of a licensed person must be
reported to the coroner, under heavy penal-
ties for non-compliance with the legal regu-
lations.
	AS A RULE, money paid to women for
work, goes for better purposes than that paid
to men. We need only to think a moment
over the instances that come under our own
observation, and we call to mind women
who go to their daily vocations, some to the
sewing machine, some to the counter as
saleswomen, some to the manufactories
where their exquisite handiwork may be
seen in quantities of beautifully wrought
articles which delight the eyes and open the
purses of the more favored of their sex;
others to the art galleries, to the cashier’s
desk, and to many more places which
they are quite as competent to fill as
men; and whose hard-earned dollar goes to
support, perhaps an invalid mother and
younger sisters and brothers at home. That
home devotion never forsakes her—the
strength of her womanly nature endures the
more, the more it is tried, and so she toils
on, her chief compensation coming from the
knowledge that she is using the faculties
given to her for a noble purpose. Can the
brothers of a dependent household, as a rule,
say as much?
	IT WILL BE, says the Pall Mall “Gazette,”
two hundred years in June since Peter the
Great was born, and it is proposed to cele-
brate with due solemnity the memorable
day—the eleventh of the month—which gave
to Russia its greatest Emperor. As usual,
in this highly cultivated age the commem-
oration will assume a prominently educa-
tional character, the foundation of two six-
class elementary schools being contemplated
for the building of which government has
set apart a sum of 2,000 roubles, and for the
maintenance of which an endowment of 7,900
roubles a year is appropriated. A statisti-
cal, topographical, and historical, account of
the city of St. Petersburg is likewise to be
published, in honor of the day. Czar Peter’s
maritime merits, too, are not forgotten.  An
imposing stone monument, to be erected at
Lachten, is to commemorate his gallant sav-
ing of shipwrecked mariners at that place,
and collections will be set on foot for the en-
largement of the mercantile fleet in the
Baltic. A full length portrait, to be painted
by one of the first artists of Russia, and a
solemn procession with it through the streets
of St. Petersburg, will conclude the festive
programme by which the grateful capital
proposes to record its thanks to its founder.

	“Arbor day,” in Iowa and Nebraska, means
one day set apart for planting young forest
trees.  There is beauty for the eye, mois-
ture for the earth and wealth for the com-
monwealth in such planting; and the ex-
ample of those two States should be emula-
ted by other communities of the west.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.
		       —
TEXAS pastured 3,651,316 cattle in 1871.
THEY only use thirty-two books in the St. 
Louis High School.	
  LAWRENCE, Mass., employs 14,000 opera-
tives in her manufactories.		
  ENGLAND'S annual expenditure for alco-
holic drinks is $540,000,000. Estimate the	
“consequential damages” on that.		
IT is said that 40,000,000 pounds of tea 
are consumed yearly in the United States.
What tea parties—and nervousness !
  IOWA is awaiting a population of 9,000,-
000, which she claims to have capacity for
on her 55,000 square miles of surface.
  DELAWARE will yield 1,250,000 peach
baskets this year, the product of 5,000,000
peach trees.   Utah will do better, tree for 
tree.
OF lunatics sent to Taunton, Mass., dur-
ing the past eighteen years, the madness of
703 was caused by intemperance and six by
tobacco.
  LADIES, one of your inalienable rights is
to tell us where the 2,000,000 packs of pins
annually manufactured go to, especially as
each pack contains 3,660 pins.
 THE taxable property of Texas is $54,079,-
488 less than in 1858. Not that the State is
not prospering ; but the $85,000,000 worth
of slaves are not counted.
THERE are 343,102 Indians pastured on
87 reservations in the United States, at a
cost of $5,000,000 annually; including offi-
cial plunderings by agents and others.
  IT IS estimated that 2,000 persons anually
find peaceful graves as a result of the mur-
derous illuminating compounds now in use.
“Death in the lamp!” would be a legiti-
mate cry.	
  THE largest cities in the German Empire, 
according to the census of December 1,1871,
are Berlin, 828,012 inhabitants; Hamburg,
235,365 ; Breslau, 208,025 ; Dresden, 177',-
025 ; Munich, 169,612 ; Cologne, 129,251;
and Leipzig, 107,575.
  MICHIGAN has declared that any school
district having over 300 children can borrow
$15,000 to erect a Union school-house, arid
the cry is “Union Forever!” with slight
Mormon tendencies. Erection will be the
order of the day.—“ Pomeroy’s Democrat.”
  THERE is one mile of railroad to every
379 inhabitants in Iowa; to every 411 in Il-
linois ; to 467 in Indiana; to 699 in Penn-
sylvania; to 686 in Missouri; to 975 in
Massachusetts; and to 1,022 in New York.
And the life insurance rates are in propor-
tion.		
   A MAN incarcerated in the Tombs has
been figuring in chalk on the walls of his
cell.  It reads: “In New York City the 
spires of 342 churches, worth $41,130,000,
point heavenward. I’m here for stealing a
loaf of bread for my starving child.” Chris-
tian civilization !
 EUROPE, it is said, has nearly ten millions
of men trained to arms and kept from pro-
ductive industry, to feed ambition, gratify
revenge, and meet the demands of all the
baser passions of human nature. What a
commentary on existing governments and
the degradation of man’s noble powers !
 LONDON is the largest city in the world,
far surpassing all those of antiquity. Ac-
cording to Gibbon, the population of ancient
Rome, in the hight of its magnificence, was
1,200,000; the population of Pekin is sup-
posed to be about 2,000,000; that of London
is about 3,500,000, over one-twelfth of the
population of the United States.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.			7


﻿ABOUT WOMEN.
	A Buffalo girl—who must be very much
engaged—has had 2,000 of her photographs
printed.
	George Sand’s seventy-five novels have
brought her $10,000 each, exclusive of $80,-
000 received by her for her plays.
	Miss Collamer, of Vermont, owns twenty
thousand dollars’ worth of railroad stock,
and votes at the meetings.
	A Minnesota woman has invented a fan to
be attached to a sewing machine, and put in
motion by the same power.
	Woman has equal rights in Mechlenburg-
Schwerin. Last year 94 men and 33 women
were flogged, receiving 2,004 Lashes.
	The “Saturday Review” calls the fashion-
able “chignon” a lie, and reproaches the la-
dies with systematic deception in wearing
false hair.
	The London “Spectator” is strongly in
favor of a woman’s university in England,
on the ground that the judgment of educa-
ted women is needed on many of the most
important questions of the day.
	From Leipsic we hear of a new pianist
of the higher order. The new virtuoso is a
young Swedish lady of rare beauty and ac-
complishments.  Her name is Erika Lie,
and the most eminent musical critics com-
pare her to Clara Schumann.
	A woman at Danville, N. H., having been
notified by the highway surveyor to appear
and work out her tax of four cents, made
her appearance at the appointed time, armed
with a hoe, and toiled vigorously till her
tax was cancelled—about fifteen minutes.
	While their Brazilian majesties, when at
Naples, were paying a visit to the Azure
grotto, a man fell overboard and would have
perished had not the empress dived after
him, and at the peril of her own august life,
held him by the hair of the head until as-
sistance arrived.
	Mrs. Thomas Gurr, of Northville, Wayne
Co., Mich., forty years old, with a daughter
of fourteen years, and the occasional help of
two other members of the family, husked
over 1,500 bushels of corn during the past
Fall. Mrs. G., by actual count, husked for-
ty-one bushels in eight hours, and her daugh-
ter twenty-five bushels in the same time.
Worth noting! Had this occurred in Utah
what a fearful thing it would have been.
Fortunately it was in Michigan!
	About eighteen months since, the wife of
a rather prominent citizen of Wayne county,
named Voss, died and was buried without a
funeral sermon having been preached over
her remains. Voss married again, and last
week his second wife died, and on Sunday
she was buried from the Methodist church
of Centerville.  The pastor, whether by in-
struction or otherwise, seized the opportu-
nity to preach the funeral services of both
wives, and, with the dead body of the sec-
ond one lying before him, he spoke of the
first wife before referring to the other.
	A New York paper tells about a California
lady who may yet prove a successful rival
to Harriet Hosmer and Vinnie Ream—a
Mrs. Cosby, residing in Butte county.  Her
first venture in sculpturing was in playing
with her children, who were making mud
pies. Taking a lump of adobe she began to
model a head, and was surprised at her suc-
cess.  Then she took a piece of chalk aud
carved another figure with no chisel but a
pair of scissors.  She then bought a block of
marble from which she chiseled an ideal
figure and a portrait of a bust which are
pronounced wonderful figures.


﻿TRULY BRAVE WOMEN.
	The woman who by patient care and con-
stant application, is storing her mind with
the rich gems of knowledge, which lie scat-
tered all over the universe, for some one to
pick up, polish and put to use; and who, hav-
ing gathered a few, generously casts a re-
flection of them, either from lip or pen, upon
her sisters that they may also realize some-
thing of the value of having a perception of
facts as they exist, such a woman is not
the only brave, true-souled help-meet for
man. There are thousands of noble, faith-
ful wives and mothers, who are doing really
more good to-day than so many thousand
lecturers or writers could do with all their
reflecting gems of wisdom and eloquent ap-
peals for reform.
	The mother who voluntarily takes upon
herself the training of her children, the care
of their health and the cultivation of their
minds, and dilligently and firmly applies
her time and talents to the arduous, unre-
mitting tasks of nursery life, and well and
wisely fills the mission she has chosen, re-
quires more fortitude and strength of char-
acter than a woman in any other position in
life, who, if she is blessed with children,
places them under the care of nurse or gov-
erness, paying some one else for doing the
greatest and worthiest work the Lord has
committed to her care, while she does only
the simple and easier part, no matter what
profession she may follow; and at the last
is liable to regret having shirked that no-
blest work for woman to perform, when she
finds it has been poorly done.		L.


﻿CULTIVATE THE BEAUTIFUL.
			—
  Be not over anxious to get rich; for, al-
though the wealth of this world can add
much enjoyment 'to a naturally happy and
sweet disposition, it cannot purchase happi-
ness or contentment for one who does not
earnestly endeavor to have implanted and
carefully cultivated, in the mind and heart,
the beautiful plants of true wisdom, faith
and chastity.
  The Beautiful in nature—trees, plants,
fruits and flowers, and all that is calculated
to please the eye and gladden the heart—is
ever emblematical of the beautiful in the
human mind; friendship and sympathy,
trust and love, and all those endearing, heav-
en-born principles which serve to make life
desirable and its cares and porplexities en-
durable.
   How delightful it is to listen to nature’s
own gifted minstrels warbling out their
songs of joy and praise ! Teach the children
to cultivate, as nearly as possible, the same
happy strains, and let them learn to sing
with heartfelt gratitude, the songs of over-
flowing, innocent pleasure.
  Gather around you the beautiful and lovely
objects of nature and of art, for their pres-
ence will aid the culture of beautiful
thoughts and sentiments, which are the pre-
ludes and prompters of beautiful words and
works, and much more enhancing to true
happiness than mere worldly wealth.


﻿CO-OPERATION IN BRITAIN.
			—
  Here is what is being done in co-operation
in England, as appears from the reports of
the late co-operative congress held in Bol-
ton, Lancashire, and presided over by
Thomas Hughes, M. P.  The figures are en-
couraging to advocates of the principle eve-
rywhere. From the minutes of the assem-
bly it appears that 400,000 workmen in the
United Kingdom own 1,500 stores, whose
supplies are bought by their own agents in


the islands and on the continent, and whose
immense profits are suflicient to settle the
question of the feasibility of co-operation.
One association in the north of England sup-
plies 399 societies with goods; has 235 soci-
eties associated with it, and divided a profit
last year of $40,000, its sales amounting to
$3,793,820. One society in Scotland has 97
retail stores and an annual trade of $1,000,-
000.	The capital invested in these societies
is upward of $10,000,000, nine-tenths of it
being in small shares. They do $50,000,000
of trade and make their own profit on them-
selves.
		————<o>————


﻿HOME.
		   —
A very old and commonplace word, is it
not? But like Utah and the “Mormon
Problem,” it is a subject that may be reflec-
ted upon, talked of and written about, every
day and by everybody, and still be never
lacking in general interest.
  There is, perhaps, no other name pertain-
ing to earthly things—“ mother” excepted
—which contains so much “kind feelings”
as that little word “ home” ; and none which
conveys a more lonely sensation to the sen-
sitive and sympathetic heart than it does
when “less” or “sick” is affixed to it.
  Too much pains cannot be taken by any
member of a household to make home bright
and comfortable, to engender and inculcate
the spirit of harmony and affection that
peace and joy and satisfaction may reign,
and there be no mockery in saying “ sweet
home.”
  A habitation and its surroundings may be
elegant and luxurious, containing all that
could be desired to please and gratify even
the most fastidious, and yet, if taste and or-
der be not carefully cultivated and observed,
there will be no appearance of ease or com-
fort, and no enjoyment to be realized. Moth-
ers and sisters who think more of being
fashionably attired, and making and receiv-
ing calls, than they do of keeping their
houses in order and creating sunshine and
gladness therein, will sometime be likely to
see they have had a wrong idea of things,
and say with the “ Traveler at the source of
the Nile,”
	"O, Happiness ! how far we flee
	Thine own sweet paths in search of thee.”
  Heads of families who know how to ap-
preciate evenings at home, can often fur- 
nish useful entertainment for their little
ones by pronouncing words to be spelled,
giving mathematical problems to be solved,
grammatical errors or rhetorical blemishes
to be corrected or improved, etc. And by
this means children may obtain more genu-
ine practical knowledge in a couple of hours
—even while their hands may be busied
with some light task, preparing an article
for use, convenience, or to assist in beautify-
ing home—than is likely to be acquired in
three or four days at school. Besides, they
are under the benign influence and partici-
pating in the genial atmosphere of home,
where, also, should be taught and ever kept
in view those religious and moral lessons
which contribute so much to the force and
weight of character in after life.
  Make home attractive and pleasant and
children will not desire to wander off to find
enjoyment elsewhere.			G.


﻿“A Chinese newspaper has entered upon
its two thousandth volume. It has lost
nearly all of its original subscribers.” A
copy of this paper, the “Pekin Gazette,”
can be seen in the Museum in this city.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT,


﻿WHY LACE IS COSTLY. '  .
			—
  The finest specimen of Brussels lace is  so,
complicated as to require the labor of seven
persons on one piece, and each operative is
employed at distinct features of the work.
The thread used is of exquisite fineness,
which is spun in dark, underground rooms,
where it is sufficiently moist to prevent the
thread from separating. It is so delicate as
scarcely to be seen, and the room is so ar-
ranged that all the light shall fall upon the
work. It is such material that renders the
genuine Brussels ground so costly. On a
piece of Valenciennes not two inches wide,
from 200 to 300 bobbins are sometimes used ;
and for a larger width, as many as 800 on the
same pillow.


﻿Nebraska is making strenuous efforts to
secure European immigrants, and Nebraska
will be a great State in ten years if it perse-
veres in that policy, with honest officials to
manage the business. Utah, with less than
the usual attractions to draw the ordinary
speculator towards it, by an admirable im-
migration system in twenty years laid a
foundation of permanent prosperity which
will be better appreciated a few years hence
than it is to-day.


THE WASHINGTON “Chronicle” says:
“The Judges of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, in revising the .new
code prepared by the commission to codify
the laws of the District, have ordered the
word ‘male,’ in connection with admission
to the bar, to be stricken out, thus opening
the way to women to practice in the courts
here.”


THE bees of Mr. Greer, of Iowa, secreted
$1,400 worth of honey last year; he found
it, though.


WEED SEWING MACHINES.
		Stitch Alike on Both Sides.
The Lightest Running
		SHUTTLE MACHINE
				In the World;
    Sews Fine and Coarse. No Springs nor Cogs. No
taking a part to Oil or Clean it.
   Send for Circular to 97 Kimball Block, Salt Lake
City. 			IRA PFOUTZ, Ag’t.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by

	H. DINWOODEY,
  At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

DR. W.H. GROVES, 
				DENTIST,
	Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
		Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

BAZAR OF FASHION.
		MRS. WILKINSON,
FASHIONABLE MILLINER AND DRESSMAKER.
  Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Millinery, Straw
Goods, and all kinds of fancy and Staple Dry Goods.
  Sole agent for the Territory for M'me Demorest's
reliable paper patterns. Orders from the country so-
licited; patterns sent by mail. Removed to the new
Establishment, 1st South St., next door west of Z. C.
M. I. Wholesale Dry Goods Department.


	JOHNSON'S
	
HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES!


Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-
  ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.



BONESET -PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.



  EYE BALSAM.  For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.

	CONKLIN-SALVE. For pains or weakness in
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.


  ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills. Price 50 cents.


These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at



ZION’S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,



Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory. 	


  If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them. ' 

  Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.  

   AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of,

From the Laboratory of
					J. E. JOHNSON,
					    St. George, Utah.


	WOMAN’S EXPONENT. 
	 A UTAH LADIES’ JOURNAL.

	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.	
	
  They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.

  Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? “It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others !”

  For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica- 
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.

   The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.

   It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.

  Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due .attention.

   Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.

  WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
  The following low rates will place It within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be inside so
valuable that it will he found in every family in
Utah.	

  TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1 Copy one year, 		$2.00	1 copy six months. $1.00
10 Copies one year, 	18.00	10 Copies six month,  9.00

 No subscription received for less than six months.
It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

 Address all communications and subscriptions
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


Woman's Exponent.﻿		


VOL. I. 			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1872.			No. 2.


﻿NEWS AND VIEWS.
		  —
  NEW YORK blacksmiths are striking—for
wages. 
  THE Democratic cauldron is bubbling ; it
will boil at Baltimore on the 9th proximo.
  PRESIDENT Grant was nominated for re-
election by the Philadelphia Convention.
Will he be elected ?
   ADMIRERS of John Brown are anxious to
erect a monument to his memory at Har-
per’s Ferry or Charleston. Is he likely to
be soon forgotten in those places ?
  MISS Alice Ingham, of Boston, is making
a fortune at Buenos Ayres, having estab-
lished a wholesale millinery store. When
all the milliners have made their fortunes,
it is to be hoped they will begin making
head-dresses of a more common-sense style
than many that are now made and worn.
OVER a thousand American newspapers
collapsed last year, a single fact that shows
how prone our “independent sovereigns”
are to rush into the using of printer’s ink
without a secure footing on which to stand.
More than two millions of money, it is cal-
culated, was lost by the experimental enter-
prises.
 SIX Presidential tickets are already in the
field for the coming election, with several
conventions in prospective ; and Utah has
not a single effective voice in the exciting
contest. Six Presidential elections have
been held since Utah was settled, and yet
she has never cast a vote for President.
 TO BANDY the lie in the halls of Congress,
like street brawlers in a quarrel, as was done
in the House of Representatives on last
Monday night, is a poor way to manifest the
dignity which should characterize the leg-
islators of a great country. If the men who
lead in politics and aspire to govern the
people, would first learn to govern them-
selves, they would be better fitted for the
high duties which they are so anxious to as-
sume.
  AN ILLINOIS clerk refuses to marry be-
cause the women have so many faults. His
objections to one are :	“She walks per-
fectly natural, just as women used to do
years ago, and wears her own hair, like
some old grandmother, which would make
her appear so awkward among his fashiona-
ble friends!” Poor young man ! He’s too
wise for this mad world ! But, could he not
make a choice from some modern bundle of
fashionable millinery ?
  CONGRESS adjourned on Monday last, the
10th inst. The women of Utah are under
obligations to it, that it declined to pass
Representative Wheeler’s bill to deprive
them of the ballot, which the act of the Ter-
ritorial Legislature and the signature of Hon.
S. A. Mann conferred upon them. Had the
women of Utah done violence to their feel-
ings and intelligence, and at the polls voted
against the men they have proved and know
to be worthy of confidence, there would
have been no bill presented to Congress to
deprive them of the elective franchise.
AT THE International Typographical
Union, which met in convention, in Rich-
mond, Virginia, last week, an amendment
to the constitution of the organization was
[end of column; start of new column]
offered, discountenencing the chartering of
female unions, and striking out the word
“male.” Under the rules this will lay over
for a year. It is discreditable to the intelli-
gence of the typographical profession that
such distinctions should exist. Where wo-
men make as good compositors as men they
should enjoy all the rights and privileges
possessed by male compositors, and the ef-
fort to continue a class distinction because
of sex is as unjust as it is ungallant.
  IT IS again announced that Dr. Living-
stone, the indomitable Scotchman who has
made his memory famous through coming
time by his African explorations, has been
again heard from and is safe. He has fur-
nished a large fund of material for small
wits that can neither appreciate his daring,
enterprise, energy, nor the love for science
and the advancement of knowledge which
has sustained him in his many perilous un-
dertakings. Yet he has done more to pene-
trate the mysteries of that hitherto unknown
world, which lies buried in the vast African
continent, than any other man, living or
dead, of whom past or contemporaneous his-
tory furnishes any account.
 THE platform adopted by the National
Rebublican Convention which met at Phila-
delphia on the 5th inst., acknowledges that
the claims of those who advocate woman
suffrage are entitled to respect. This has
the appearance of a bid for the services of
Mrs. Hooker and other women lecturers, to
take the stump in support of the party nom-
inations. But, inasmuch as the Republicans
have had a large majority in both houses of
Congress for some years, why is it that the
sought-for sixteenth amendment to the Con-
stitution, to confer upon women the suffrage,
has never been able to command a respecta-
ble vote in Congress that weuld send it to
the country for ratification.  Plausable plat-
forms sound well, but consistent acts are
better.
  Two more Polar expeditions have started.
  Theodore Tilton is for Greeloy “first, last,
and all the time.”	
  Florida will soon have her first street railway,'
at Cedar Keys. Utah will beat her.
The Boston “Peace Jubilee” will be a great
crash. It opens on Monday, the 17th inst.
  “Scissors editors” is the latest and most appro-
priate name for a numerous class of the editorial
fraternity.
  ILLUSTRATED papers arc growing. They teach
through the eye, which is a pleasant mode of acquir-
ing knowledge when the object is agreeable.
CHINA’s religious institutions, it is said, cost her
four hundred.millions of dollars annually; less than
a dollar a head. Why, Christendom pays nearly
as much per caput for religion, and’ yet see how
prisons, madhouses, dens of infamy and general in-
iquity thrive !
TO BECOME acquainted with the “ strong points”
of a dishonorable or disreputable character, which
the principal men of the country have made during
the past few years, a stranger should take in for
the next three months about half a dozen political
papers sustaining different parties.
CHARLES JAMES LEVER, the author, is dead.
With a rare fund of humor, a wonderful talent for
delineating the rollicking character of the Irish in
all its exuberance, and a wealth of plot and incident
[end of column; start of new column]
rarely excelled, he furnished much pleasant read-
ing for all English-speaking, countries,'which will
long keep his memory green.
  TWENTY thousand singers and eight thousand in-
strumental performers will participate in the “Bos-
ton International Musical Peace Jubilee;” and
provision has been made for seating a hundred
thousand people. One clever Irishman has suc-
ceeded in adding a new feature of notoriety to the
“ Hub of the Universe,” and Boston rejoices.
Fearful storms have swept over different places
in the Eastern and Middle States within the past
two weeks, washing away railroad bridges, houses,
fences, farm-produce, and cattle, leaving buildings
shattered by lightning, and killing a number of
people. It seemed as if the Storm King had gone
forth in his fury, spreading devastation in his track.
  STRIKES have become plenty of late, especially
in New York, and the demand is that eight hours’
work and ten hours’ pay shall constitute the labor
and compensation for a day’s toil. We propose
two other strikes, to include two classes of “ white
slaves.” Let seamstresses and editors demand a
reduction of labor and an increase of pay. Both
classes need them, and both, as classes, are harder
worked than are the men of any trade engaged in
the New York strikes.
  JUST now there is only one subject of surpassing
interest in America:	Who	shall	distribute	the offi-
cial patronage during the four years commencing
March 4, 1873. When men were honest and lost
money by holding office, the offices had often to seek
the men; but now they have found a way to realize
a fortune in a year or two out of a starvation salary,
and the number of people seeking offices is so great,
that they could scarcely be suitably supplied if ev-
ery cell in every penitentiary in the country was
prepared for their especial use.
 ANOTHER appalling domestic tragedy occurred in
New York. The circumstances are one Emil
Andrea, a Frenchman, whose wife had left him on
account of disfiguration by small-pox, was living
with another man. The husband went to her resi-
dence to obtain her signature to a paper for separa-
tion. She refused and fled; he caught her on the
comer of First avenue. and Fifteenth street, took
her by the hair, put a pistol to her head, shot her
dead and waited for the police to arrest him. Sad,
indeed !
REV. HUSTON, of Baltimore, was tried by an eccle-
siastical court, with closed doors, for alleged immor-
ality with young women of his acquaintance. lie
was acquitted, and proposes to bring suit for libel
against the “Baltimore American” newspaper.
Meantime he has been indicted by a grand jury on
the same charge; so that between the libel prose-
cution in which he will be plaintiff, and the crim-
inal prosecution in which he will be defendant,
there is a chance that the public will get at facts
which it is generally believed the ecclesiastical court
concealed.
 FOR jealous and infatuated “ lovers” to shoot
and stab the objects of their insane desires, if the
latter refuse to accept their matrimonial offers, is
become somewhat fashionable. One of the latest
cases is that of a painter in San Francisco named.
Mansfield, who twico shot a Miss Hein, daughter
of an importing merchant, and then put a bullet
through his own body, but without killing either.
William the Conqueror, of England, secured his
wife by seizing her on the street, tearing her hair
—women wore their own hair then—pounding her,
and rolling her in the mud. The modern style is
not so rough, but it is far more fatal. How we im-
prove !

----
﻿NEWS AND VIEWS.
-New York blacksmiths are striking—for
wages. 
The Democratic cauldron is bubbling ; it
will boil at Baltimore on the 9th proximo.
President Grant was nominated for re-
election by the Philadelphia Convention.
Will he be elected ?
Admirers of John Brown are anxious to
erect a monument to his memory at Har-
per’s Ferry or Charleston. Is be likely to
be soon forgotten in those places ?
Miss Alice Ingham, of Boston, is making
a fortune at Buenos Ayres, having estab-
lished a wholesale millinery store. When
all the milliners have made their fortunes,
it is to be hoped they will begin making
head-dresses of a more common-sense style
than many that are now made and worn.
Over a thousand American newspapers
collapsed last year, a single fact that shows
how prone our “independent sovereigns”
are to rush into the using of printer’s ink
without a secure footing on which to stand.
More than two millions of money, it is cal-
culated, was lost by the experimental enter-
prises.
Six Presidential tickets are already in the
field for the coming election, with several
conventions in prospective ; and Utah has
not a single effective voice in the exciting
contest. Six Presidential elections have
been held since Utah was settled, and yet
she has never cast a vote for President.
To bandy the lie in the halls of Congress,
like street brawlers in a quarrel, as was done
in the House of Representatives on last
Monday night, is a poor way to manifest the
dignity which should characterize the leg-
islators of a great country. If the men who
lead in politics and aspire to govern the
people, would first learn to govern them-
selves, they would be better fitted for the
high duties which they are so anxious to as-
sume.
An Illinois clerk refuses to marry be-
cause the women have so many faults. His
objections to one are :	“She walks per-
fectly natural, just as women used to do
years ago, and wears her own hair, like
some old grandmother, which would make
her appear so awkward among his fashiona-
ble friends!” Poor young man ! He’s too
wise for this mad world ! But, could he not
make a choice from some modern bundle of
fashionable millinery ?
Congress adjourned on Monday last, the
10th inst. The women of Utah are under
obligations to it, that it declined to pass
Representative Wheeler’s bill to deprive
them of the ballot, which the act of the Ter-
ritorial Legislature and the signature of Hon.
S. A. Mann conferred upon them. Had the
women of Utah done violence to their feel-
ings and intelligence, and at the polls voted
against the men they have proved and know
to be worthy of confidence, there would
have been no bill presented to Congress to
deprive them of the elective franchise.
At the International Typographical
Union, which met in convention, in Rich-
mond, Virginia, last week, an amendment
to the constitution of the organization was
offered, discountenancing the chartering of
female unions, and striking out the word
“male.” Under the rules this will lay over
for a year. It is discreditable to the intelli-
gence of the typographical profession that
such distinctions should exist. Where wo-
men make as good compositors as men they
should enjoy all the rights and privileges
possessed by male compositors, and the ef-
fort to continue a class distinction because
of sex is as unjust as it is ungallant.
It is again announced that Dr. Living-
stone, the indomitable Scotchman who has
made his memory famous through coming
time by his African explorations, has been
again heard from and is safe. He has fur-
nished a large fund of material for small
wits that can neither appreciate his daring,
enterprise, energy, nor the love for science
and the advancement of knowledge which
has sustained him in his many perilous un-
dertakings. Yet he has done more to pene-
trate the mysteries of that hitherto unknown
world, which lies buried in the vast African
continent, than any other man, living or
dead, of whom past or contemporaneous his-
tory furnishes any account.
The platform adopted by the National
Rebublican Convention which met at Phila-
delphia on the 5th inst, acknowledges that
the claims of those who advocate woman
suffrage are entitled to respect. This has
the appearance of a bid for the services of
Mrs. Hooker and other women lecturers, to
take the stump in support of the party nom-
inations. But, inasmuch as the Republicans
have had a large majority in both houses of
Congress for some years, why is it that the
sought-for sixteenth amendment to the Con-
stitution, to confer upon women the suffrage,
has never been able to command a respecta-
ble vote in Congress that weuld send it to
the country for ratification. . Plausable plat-
forms sound well, but consistent acts are
better.
Two more Polar expeditions have started.
Theodore Tilton is for Greeley “first, last,
and all the time.”	
Florida will soon have her first street railway,
at Cedar Keys. Utah will beat her.
The Boston “Peace Jubilee” will be a great
crash. It opens on Monday, the 17th inst.
“Scissors editors” is the latest and most appro-
priate name for a numerous class of the editorial
fraternity.
ILLUSTRATED papers are growing. They teach
through the eye, which is a pleasant mode of acquir-
ing knowledge when the object, is agreeable.
CHINA’s religious institutions, it is said, cost her
four hundred millions of dollars annnally; less than
a dollar a head. Why, Christendom pays nearly
as much per caput for religion, and yet see how
prisons, madhouses, dens of infamy and general in-
iquity thrive!
To become acquainted with the “ strong points”
of a dishonorable or disreputable character, which
the principal men of the country have made during
the past few years, a stranger should take in for
the next three months about half a dozen political
papers sustaining different parties.
Charles James Lever, the author, is dead.
With a rare fund of humor, a wonderful talent for
delineating the rollicking character of the Irish in;
all its exuberance, and a wealth of plot and incident
rarely excelled, he furnished much pleasant read-
ing for all English-speaking, countries, which will
long keep his memory green.
Twenty thousand singers and eight thousand in-
strumental performers will participate in the “Bos-
ton International Musical Peace Jubilee;” and
provision has been made for seating a hundred
thousand people. One clever Irishman has suc-
ceeded in adding a new feature of notoriety to the
“Hub of the Universe,” and Boston rejoices.
Fearful storms have swept over different places
in the Eastern and Middle States within the past
two weeks, washing away railroad bridges, houses,
fences, farm-produce, and cattle, leaving buildings
shattered by lightning, and killing a number of
people. It seemed as if the Storm King had gone
forth in his fury, spreading devastation in his track.
Strikes have become plenty of late, especially
in New York, and the demand is that eight hours’
work and ten hours’ pay shall constitute the labor
and compensation for a day’s toil. We propose
two other strikes, to include two classes of “ white
slaves.” Let seamstresses and editors demand a
reduction of labor and an increase of pay. Both
classes need them, and both, as classes, are harder
worked than arc the men of any trade engaged in
the New York strikes.
Just now there is only one subject of surpassing
interest in America:	Who	shall	distribute	the offi-
cial patronage during the four years commencing
March 4, 1873. When men were honest and lost
money by holding office, the offices had often to seek
the men; but now they have found a way to realize
a fortune in a year or two out of a starvation salary,
and the number of people seeking offices is so great,
that they could scarcely be suitably supplied if ev-
ery cell in every penitentiary in the country was
prepared for their especial use.
Another appalling domestic tragedy occurred in
New York. The circumstances are one Emil
Andrea, a Frenchman, whose wife had left liim on
account of disfiguration by small-pox, was living
with another man. The husband went to her resi-
dence to obtain her signature to a paper for separa-
tion. She refused and fled; he caught her on the
comer of First avenue. and Fifteenth street, took
her by the hair, put a pistol to her head, shot her
dead and waited for the police to arrest him. Sad,
indeed !
Rev. Huston, of Baltimore, was tried by an eccle-
siastical court, with closed doors, for alleged immor-
ality with young women of his acquaintance. He
was acquitted, and proposes to bring suit for libel
against the “Baltimore American” newspaper.
Meantime he has been indicted by a grand jury on
the same charge; so that between the libel prose-
cution in which he will be plaintiff, and the crim-
inal prosecution in which he will he defendant,
there is a chance that the public will get at facts
which it is generally believed the ecclesiastical court
concealed.
For jealous and infatuated “lovers” to shoot
and stab, the objects of their insane desires, if the
latter refuse to accept their matrimonial offers, is
become somewhat fashionable. One of the latest
cases is that of a painter in San Francisco , named.
Mansfield, who twice shot a Miss Hein, daughter
of an importing merchant, and then put a bullet
through his own body, but without killing either.
William the Conqueror, of England, secured his
wife by seizing her on the street, tearing her hair
—women wore their own hair then—pounding her,
and rolling her in the mud. The modern style is
not so rough, but it is far more fatal. How we im-
prove !
----
﻿NEWS AND VIEWS.
	New York blacksmiths are striking—for
wages.
	The Democratic cauldron is bubbling; it
will boil at Baltimore on the 9th proximo.
	President Grant was nominated for re-
election by the Philadelphia Convention.
Will he be elected ?
	Admirers of John Brown are anxious to
erect a monument to his memory at Har-
per’s Ferry or Charleston. Is be likely to
be soon forgotten in those places ?
	Miss Alice Ingham, of Boston, is making
a fortune at Buenos Ayres, having estab-
lished a wholesale millinery store. When
all the milliners have made their fortunes,
it is to be hoped they will begin making
head-dresses of a more common-sense style
than many that are now made and worn.
	Over a thousand American newspapers
collapsed last year, a single fact that shows
how prone our “independent sovereigns”
are to rush into the using of printer’s ink
without a secure footing on which to stand.
More than two millions of money, it is cal-
culated, was lost by the experimental enter-
prises.
	Six Presidential tickets are already in the
field for the coming election, with several
conventions in prospective ; and Utah has
not a single effective voice in the exciting
contest. Six Presidential elections have
been held since Utah was settled, and yet
she has never cast a vote for President.
	To bandy the lie in the halls of Congress,
like street brawlers in a quarrel, as was done
in the House of Representatives on last
Monday night, is a poor way to manifest the
dignity which should characterize the leg-
islators of a great country. If the men who
lead in politics and aspire to govern the
people, would first learn to govern them-
selves, they would be better fitted for the
bigh duties which they are so anxious to as-
sume.
	An Illinois clerk refuses to marry be-
cause the women have so many faults. His
objections to one are : “She walks per-
fectly natural, just as women used to do
years ago, and wears her own hair, like
some old grandmother, which would make
her appear so awkward among his fashiona-
ble friends!” Poor young man ! He’s too
wise for this mad world! But, could he not
make a choice from some modern bundle of
fashionable millinery?
	Congress adjourned on Monday last, the
10th inst. The women of Utah are under
obligations to it, that it declined to pass
Representative Wheeler’s bill to deprive
them of the ballot, which the act of the Ter-
ritorial Legislature and the signature of Hon.
S. A. Mann conferred upon them. Had the
women of Utah done violence to their feel-
ings and intelligence, and at the polls voted
against the men they have proved and know
to be worthy of confidence, there would
have been no bill presented to Congress to
deprive them of the elective franchise.
At the International Typographical
Union, which met in convention, in Rich-
mond, Virginia, last week, an amendment
to the constitution of the organization was
[next column]
offered, discountenancing the chartering of
female unions, and striking out the word
“ male.” Under the rules this will lay over
for a year. It is discreditable to the intelli-
gence of the typographical profession that
such distinctions should exist. Where wo-
men make as good compositors as men they
should enjoy all the rights and privileges
possessed by male compositors, and the ef-
fort to continue a class distinction because
of sex is as unjust as it is ungallant.
	It is again announced that Dr. Living-
stone, the indomitable Scotchman who has
made his memory famous through coming
time by his African explorations, has been
again heard from and is safe. He has fur-
nished a large fund of material for small
wits that can neither appreciate his daring,
enterprise, energy, nor the love for science
and the advancement of knowledge which
has sustained him in his many perilous un-
dertakings. Yet he has done more to pene-
trate the mysteries of that hitherto unknown
world, which lies buried in the vast African
continent, than any other man, living or
dead, of whom past or contemporaneous his-
tory furnishes any account.
	The platform adopted by the National
Rebublican Convention which met at Phila-
delphia on the 5th inst, acknowledges that
the claims of those who advocate woman
suffrage are entitled to respect. This has
the appearance of a bid for the services of
Mrs. Hooker and other women lecturers, to
take the stump in support of the party nom-
inations. But, inasmuch as the Republicans
have had a large majority in both houses of
Congress for some years, why is it that the
sought-for sixteenth amendment to the Con-
stitution, to confer upon women the suffrage,
has never been able to command a respecta-
ble vote in Congress that would send it to
the country for ratification. Plausable, plat-
forms sound well, but consistent acts are
better.
	Two more Polar expeditions have started.
	Theodore Tilton is for Grecloy “first, last,
and all the time.”	
	Florida will soon have her first street railway,'
at Cedar Keys. Utah will beat her.
	The Boston “Peace Jubilee” will be a great
crash. It opens on Monday, the 17th inst.
	“Scissors editors” is the latest and most appro-
priate name for a numerous class of the editorial
fraternity.
	Illustrated papers are growing. They teach
through the eye, which is a pleasant mode of acquir-
ing knowledge when the object, is agreeable.
	China's religious institutions, it is said, cost her
four hundred millions of dollars annually; less than
a dollar a head. Why, Christendom pays nearly
as much per caput for religion, and yet see how
prisons, madhouses, dens of infamy and general in-
iquity thrive1
	To become acquainted with the “strong points”
of a dishonorable or disreputable character, which
the principal men of the country have made during
the past few years, a stranger should take in for
the next three months about half a dozen political
papers sustaining different parties.
	Charles James Lever, the author, is dead.
With a rare fund of humor, a wonderful talent for
delineating the rollicking character of the Irish in;
all its exuberance, and a wealth of plot and incident
[next column]
rarely excelled, he furnished much pleasant read-
ing for all English-speaking, countries,'which will
long keep his memory green.
	Twenty thousand singers and eight thousand in-
strumental performers will participate in the “Bos-
ton International Musical Peace Jubilee;” and
provision has been made for seating a hundred
thousand people. One clever Irishman has suc-
ceeded in adding a new feature of notoriety to the
“Hub of the Universe,” and Boston rejoices.
	Fearful storms have swept over different places
in the Eastern and Middle States within the past
two weeks, washing away railroad bridges, houses,
fences, farm-produce, and cattle, leaving buildings
shattered by lightning, and killing a number of
people. It seemed as if the Storm King had gone
forth in his fury, spreading devastation in his track.
	Strikes have become plenty of late, especially
in New York, and the demand is that eight hours’
work and ten hours’ pay shall constitute the labor
and compensation for a day’s toil. We propose
two other strikes, to include two classes of “white
slaves.” Let seamstresses and editors demand a
reduction of labor and an increase of pay. Both
classes need them, and both, as classes, are harder
worked than arc the men of any trade engaged in
the New York strikes.
	Just now there is only one subject of surpassing
interest in America:	Who	shall	distribute	the offi-
cial patronage during the four years commencing
March 4, 1873. When men were honest and lost
money by holding office, the offices had often to seek
the men; but now they have found a way to realize
a fortune in a year or two out of a starvation salary,
and the number of people seeking offices is so great,
that they could scarcely be suitably supplied if ev-
ery cell in every penitentiary in the country was
prepared for their especial use.
	Another appalling domestic tragedy occurred in
New York. The circumstances are one Emil
Andrea, a Frenchman, whose wife had left him on
account of disfiguration by small-pox, was living
with another man. The husband went to her resi-
dence to obtain her signature to a paper for separa-
tion. She refused and fled; he caught her on the
comer of First avenue. and Fifteenth street, took
her by the hair, put a pistol to her head, shot her
dead and waited for the police to arrest him. Sad,
indeed !
	Rev. Huston, of Baltimore, was tried by an eccle-
siastical court, with closed doors, for alleged immor-
ality with young women of his acquaintance. He
was acquitted, and proposes to bring suit for libel
against the “Baltimore American” newspaper.
Meantime he has been indicted by a grand jury on
the same charge; so that between the libel prose-
cution in which he will be plaintiff, and the crim-
inal prosecution in which he will he defendant,
there is a chance that the public will get at facts
which it is generally believed the ecclesiastical court
concealed.
	For jealous and infatuated “lovers” to shoot
and stab, the objects of their insane desires, if the
latter refuse to accept their matrimonial offers, is
become somewhat fashionable. One of the latest
cases is that of a painter in San Francisco, named.
Mansfield, who twice shot a Miss Hein, daughter
of an importing merchant, and then put a bullet
through his own body, but without killing either.
William the Conqueror, of England, secured his
wife by seizing her on the street, tearing her hair
—women wore their own hair then—pounding her,
and rolling her in the mud. The modem style is
not so rough, but it is far more fatal. How we im-
prove !


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE FEMALE RELIEF SOCIETY.
A BRIEF SKETCH OF ITS ORGANIZATION AND WORK-
INGS IN THE CITY OF NAUVOO, HANCOCK CO.. ILL.
		BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
			(Concluded.)
	When organized, the Society consisted of
nineteen members, exclusive of its officers.
This number augmented from time to time,
until at the close of the fiscal year it
amounted to 1158. The meetings were so
large that the largest hall in the city was
densely crowded and it became necessary to
adjourn to the Grove, the usual place in
the Summer for holding Sabbath meeting,
which was provided with a suitable stand
and a supply of seats for large assemblies.
	The Society soon became so popular that
even those of doubtful character in several
instances applied for admission, and to pre-
vent imposition by extending membership
to such ones inadvertently, stricter rules
were adopted than seemed requisite at first.
Each one wishing to join the Society was
required to present a certificate of her good
moral character, signed by two or more re-
sponsible persons.
	The meetings were opened and closed by
singing and prayer, and systematic order was
observed throughout. In each meeting reports
were given by those whose duty it was to
visit from house to house and inquire into
the circumstances of the sick and destitute
—donations were received and those subjects
discussed which appertain to woman’s du-
ties, influence, responsibilities, etc., etc.—
whatever has a tendency to benefit and ele-
vate society at home and abroad.
	Frequently President Joseph Smith, Bish-
op N. K. Whitney and brethren of the
Twelve met with the sisters, and through
the inspiration of the Spirit of God, imparted
rich counsel and intelligence; instructing,
not only in duties concerning the poor, but
also in all the relations of life, as wives, me-
thers, daughters, sisters, and, as saints of
the Most High, our duties to one another
and our responsibilities as examples to the
world, etc.
	The first winter after the Society was or-
ganized, was exceedingly cold and severe.
Many, in consequence of exposure and hard-
ship in their expulsion from the State of
Missouri, and the unhealthiness of the cli-
mate of Nauvoo, had been reduced by sick-
ness to destitution, and had it not been for
the timely aid of the F. R. Society would
have suffered very much, and propably some
would have perished.
	About the last of July, 1842, when some
of the officials of Missouri were taking meas-
ures to drag President Joseph Smith from
Illinois by an illegal process, the F. R. Soci-
ety sent a petition to Thomas Carlin, Gov-
ernor of Illinois, in behalf of Pres. Smith,
claiming his protection as chief magistrate.
The petition was signed by every member
of the Society, and presented by its Presi-
dent, Mrs. Emma Smith, accompanied by
Mrs. Amanda Smith and Miss E. R. Snow.
The Governor’s residence was in Quincy,
fifty miles south from Nauvoo.
	The following is transcribed from my
journal, written after my return :   “The
Governor received us with as much cordi-
ality and politeness as His Excellency was
master of, assuring us of his protection by
saying that the laws and Constitution of our
country shall be his polar star in case of any
difficulty. He manifested much friendship,
and it remains for time and circumstance to
prove the sincerity of his professions.”
We subsequently ascertained that at the
very time that the ladies of Nauvoo were
[end of column; start of new column]
visiting him, presenting the petition and
listening to his protestations of friendship
and love for legal right and justice, his em-
issaries were engaged in secret plotting in
his behalf, against the rights and safety of
Pres. Smith, and aiding the unprincipled
bloodhounds of Missouri.  But whatever
the result, the F. R. Society had made a no-
ble effort, and it was compensated by know-
ing that the great, good man, Joseph Smith,
appreciated it.
	The city of Nauvoo was divided into four
wards, and after the Society became too nu-
merous to convene in one assembly, it was
decided to meet alternately in the different
wards from week to week so as to give equal
opportunities to all.
	Pres. Joseph Smith donated a city lot to
the Society for the purpose of making homes
for the homeless, and also to furnish work
to those who were able to work and were
out of employment, which he proposed
deeding to the Treasurer and her succes-
sors in office, for the use of the Society. He
also donated the frame of a house, and made
arrangements for it to be moved on the
aforesaid lot, for a commencement of the es-
tablishment. But this benevolent and judi-
cious project, with many others which were
designed for the amelioration of the condi-
tion of suffering humanity, was blasted in
the bud by the blighting hand of religious
persecution, and through which the once
beautiful city of Nauvoo became a desolation,
and its inhabitants exiled to Mexico.
	God, who makes the wrath of man praise
Him, has overruled, as He ever does in all
things, for the good of them who put their
trust in Him. In having been driven from
a city, we have become a Territory—
should have been a State—and here,
the Female Relief Society, more amply
developed than in Nauvoo, has extended its
branches to every ward, and settlement
from Bear Lake in the North to Santa Clara
in the South, and yet, as seen in prospec-
tive, it has but little more than emerged
from its embryo state in comparison to its
great future.


F. M. SOCIETY REPORTS.
	Mrs. Amelia M. Frodsham writes from
Ogden, under date June 12, that at the last
meeting of the Society there the same good
feelings and lively spirit were manifested as
previously reported. Meetings are held
regularly every three weeks, in Child’s
Hall, at 2 P. M., and the members will be
pleased to see any one from this city inter-
ested in the Society, who may be visiting
Ogden. The next meeting will be held on
the 27th inst.
	Will the Secretaries of other Societies, in
different parts of the Territory, kindly for-
ward us reports of their progress ?


﻿“Spotted Tail” indignantly denies that
he authorized the association of his name
with that of Victoria C. Woodhull on the
Presidential ticket. The following dispatch
has been received from him : “Woodhull ?
Squaw ! Ugh ! Me no run !” “Spotted
Tail” is evidently an intelligent mortal, but
not capable of understanding what a mania
for notoriety and bad politics will lead peo-
ple to do.
	Several of the New England woollen
mills have stopped work on account of the
high price of wool and the small demand
for goods.
	A young lady of Buffalo is about to sail
for Russia to fulfill a marriage engagement
with M. Levy, the famous cornet player.
She will be accompanied by her mother.


﻿WHY ?
	Why are all these “strong minded” peo-
ple using such strong language in relation 
to woman suffrage? Do “strong minded
women” think to coerce strong minded men
into believing as they do by waging a war 
of bitter words ? And do men think to put 
a stop to this burst of enthusiasm by scoffing
at and ridiculing it ? Who ever heard of 
an intelligent man yielding to a woman who
undertook to drive him, or of a woman who 
would not continue with increased persist- 
ence in the way she had chosen the more 
she was jeered at ?	
	When a man of sound judgment marries 
a woman of good sense, there is no necessity 
for the ruling authority to be manifested in 
their home; good order can be preserved 
without it.
	If they differ in opinion at times, the one 
who is possessed of the greater power of
persuasion, or the more gifted as a reasoner,
gets the best of it in most cases, and as this 
happy portion nearly always falls to the wo-
man, let us hope that she is, at least gener-
ally, in the right. She is certainly of a
more refined and delicate nature, less im-
petuous and venturesome, more considerate 
and sympathetic; conseqently less liable to 
rush into temptation. This, it is her right 
to be, the great Creator having so intended
it, and it is no discredit to either sex that it 
is so. Had God created man the superior
in all respects, it would have been very un-
just to give him, for a companion and help
mate, so inferior an object as woman must 
have been. Had He made woman the supe-
rior in most respects, the arrangement would 
have been equally unjust. But He created
them for each other, as nearly alike as it was
wisdom in Him to form them, and so that
one is of little or no consequence without
the other.	
	When a woman designates men as
“ brutes,” does she consider the relationship
she cannot help sustaining to at least one of
them,  and the debt she owes him for her
present existence? And when a man
speaks of women as a class, calling them 
“fools,” can it be that he reflects upon those
laws of nature which often bequeath to chil-
dren—especially boys—more of the moth--
er’s intellectual characteristics than the fa-
ther’s ?
	Why so much contention and babbling?
If one couple can live agreeably by studying
and practicing the art of peace, why should
not a community for the same cause be af-
fected in like manner? If women seek the 
right to vote—a right which without doubt:
belongs to them—why do they not go to
work systematically; and good naturedly, 
persuasively and lovingly sue for it ? And, 
then, why should not the men, like honest,
sensible coadjutors, universally concede it?


Quick Atlantic Passage. — The Na-
tional Line of steamers, which have become
deservedly popular with European tourists,
as sumptuously appointed and substantially
constructed vessels, are also acquiring celeb-
rity for their speed, as well as their safety
and splendor. The "Spain,” which is one
of the finest specimens of naval architecture
in this favorite line, has just completed one
of the quickest passages across the Atlantic
on record. She sailed from Queenstown on
the 18th ultimo, at 2 P. M., and arrived at
Sandy Hook on the 27th at 3 A. M., making
the run in the remarkably short period of
eight days and thirteen hours. Invention
and science are so shortening distance, in
point of time, that a trip from Salt Lake to
London, made in seven days, is within the
bounds of probability within ten years.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.					11


﻿SACRED TO THE MEMORY,
	OF OUR BELOVED SISTER, MRS. MATILDA
					CASPER.
	She has paid the last debt due to nature;
		She to earth has the casket resigned,
	That the morn of the first resurrection
		May restore it from dross all refined.

	She had formed for her mem'ry, a garland
		Unmingled with earthly alloy;
	It was wrought of integrity’s jewels,
		Which Time’s current can never destroy.

	To the truth she was firm and unswerving;
		Its labors to her were delight;
	She was true, as a wife and a mother—
		As a friend, her example is bright.

	Now, she’s free from all earthly encumbrance;
		With the "church of the First-born” above
	With pure rapture her spirit commingles.
		In bright mansions of truth, peace and love.

	She has gone from a world of affliction
		No more to feel sorrow and pain;
	"We say peace, sacred peace, to her ashes;
		And ere long we shall meet her again.
								E. R. S.


﻿WHAT MAKES A MAN.
	"A truthful soul, a loving mind,
	Full of affection for its kind;
	A spirit firm, erect and free,
	That never basely bends the knee;
	That will not bend a feather's weight
	Of slavery’s chance for small or great;
	That never makes a league with sin;
	That snaps the fetters despots make,
	And loves the truth for its own sake;
	That worships God, and Him alone,
	And bows no more than at His throne
	And trembles at no tyrant’s nod;
	A soul that fears no one but God,
	And thus can smile at curse or ban—
	This is the soul that makes a man.”


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	One special care of every housekeeper
should be to know that the current expenses
of her household do not exceed the general
income. By keeping a regular account of
every article purchased, this object is not
only attained, but the value of things may
be learned, and the judgment and memory
strengthened. It is one mark of good un-
derstanding not to get anything that is not
really needed, and if it can possibly be
avoided, never to take what cannot be paid
for at the time. But if, as at times such
things will occur, it is necessary to ask for
trust, keeping a small account book and
having the tradesman charge both himself
and the purchaser at the same time, often
saves money and future trouble and uncer-
tainty. A lady of experience remarks that
in large families it is best to purchase large
quantities of household requisites at a time;
but less where a family is small, as, where
plenty is known to exist, there is apt to be
too lavish use. Buy articles of clothing that
will wear and wash well. A beautiful con-
sistency should pervade the whole house,
and if there must be stint, let it not be in
the kitchen comforts and conveniences. Let
there not be a well furnished parlor and
shabby sleeping rooms; or all these things
in abundance, and an ill supplied kitchen
and pantry. A correct system of economy
and how to make the proper and best use of
things in these respects, can no more be
learned without experience and pains-tak-
ing, than any other trade or science. Yet,
these are principles that every woman should
understand, and practice understandingly.
It need not and should not occupy the whole
time of a woman’s life to keep her house
and all pertaining to it in perfect order and
neatness. A portion of her time should
wisely be appropriated to the culture and
development of the intellectual faculties
[end of column; start of new column]
with which she has been blessed ; arrange-
ments should be made, if possible, so that
religious services, the reception of friends,
or the acceptance of a cordial invitation to
wait on friends, need not be hindered by, or
interfere with, the general domestic duties.
And because usefulness is to be considered
paramount to everything else in selecting
household furniture, utensils, etc., the proper
adornments need not be neglected. Pictures
and flowers, and everything that is truly
beautiful and pleasing to the eye, enhance
general happiness, and the lowliest home
should not be without a proportionate share
of them.
	Using the Mop.—Mrs. L. H. C. Wayne,
of New York, writes : “Where one has a
hardwood, oak or maple floor, strong, hot
soapsuds may be freely used. If, on the
contrary, the floor is pine and nicely painted,
it will need painting two or three times a
year, if hot or even strong soapsuds are used.
Hired girls and washer-women often make
sad havoc with the paint, soaping, and even
scouring with hot ashes. With a clean mop
and clean, soft, warm, or hot water, first run
the mop all along the mop boards, in the
corners, on the thresholds, over the oil-
cloths and zincs, in the pantry and all the
particular places. Change the water before
it assumes a muddy appearance. Draw
out the table a little and run a clean mop
behind that. There is no need of breaking
one’s back stooping down, if both mop and
water are quite clean.”
	Eve’s Pudding.—Half a pound of apples;
half a pound of bread-crumbs; a pint of
milk; half a pound of currants ; six ounces
of sugar ; two eggs, and the grated rind of a
lemon. Chop the apple small ; add the
bread-crumbs, currants, sugar, and lemon-
peel, then the eggs, well beaten; boil it
three hours, in a buttered mold, and serve
with sweet sauce.
	Furniture Polish.—One pint of linseed
oil, one wineglass of alcohol; mix well to-
gether ; apply with a linen rag; rub dry
with a soft cloth, and polish with a silk one.
Furniture is improved by washing it occa-
sionally with soapsuds. Wipe dry, and rub
over with a little kerosene oil upon a clean
flannel. The application of kerosene oil is a
preventive of vermin.
	To Prevent Suppuration.—Acetate of
lead dissolved with strong vinegar. Apply
cloths dipped in the liquid as often as they
dry, say every fifteen minutes, for an hour
or two, until the pain abates. Repeat at in-
tervals. For a delicate person the compound
must not be too powerful, or injury may be
sustained.
	Cold meat is not healthful or digestible,
except to very well conditioned stomachs,
and when perfectly tender. Most house-
keepers would find it advantageous to study
methods of making it into varied and palat-
able dishes, such as minces, croquettes,
gravy-pies, English and Irish stews, and the
like.
	Hydrophobia.—It is asserted by medi-
cal men, that if lunar caustic is used imme-
diately after the bite of a rabid animal, well
rubbed into and dissolved in the wound, the
virus is counteracted.
	Warm Indian bannocks, or a light Sally
Lunn tea-cake, make a nice relish for tea,
and crackers may be utilized by being dip-
ped in water or milk, heated in the oven,
and then buttered.


﻿A LAWRENCE machine for making wall
paper produces seventy-nine miles of paper
daily, being run twenty-three hours out of
the twenty-four.


﻿WEATHER AND HEALTH.
			  
  The weather has a great influence—great-	
er than is commonly supposed—upon our 
physical systems. Every person has a time 
for being especially sick, if ever sick at all,
apart from all effects of diet, occupation, or
general habits. Some cannot abide a pro-
longed “dry spell." Many individuals
are surely depressed by the approach and	
reign of Spring; others have their weak	
spots probed sharply by the heats and	
draughts of Summer ; the majority of peo-
ple suffer pains and disabilities from the pe-
culiar atmosphere and sudden changes of
Autumn; and the chill rigors of Winter in-
capacitate multitudes from physical and
mental ease and comfort. In certain cli-
mates, there are “fatal” months, during
which everybody should be most careful of
their health, using every endeavor to be
clothed properly, and to be in every other
respect protected from baleful and climatic
injuries. In the majority of the United
States, the months of March and November
exercise the most pernicious influences, and 
witness the greatest number of deaths. In the 
Southern States, and in what may be termed
the Middle States, the Summer months reap 
for grim Death the greatest harvest. But 
even the effects of the extreme heat could,
in many cases, be prevented from operating 
fatally, or even to moderation of great suf-
fering, by prudential habits and systemati-
cal observance of common-sense sanitary
rules. Taking the country at large, we
have more deaths in the six colder months 
of January, February, March, April, Novem-
ber, and December, than in the other six
months of the year. It is in the colder
months that the most terrible maladies are
contracted—those which hang on, and tor-
ture, and punish, and linger only (if not 
treated according to the best and only sensi-
ble method) to kill. The warmer months
are made especially the season of the quick
fatalities, which make short work when
they get hold of systems that have been at
any other season improperly medicated, or
in any other way enfeebled, and thrown
open to the assaults of malignant disease.
Children come in for a larger share of suffer-
ing in the Summer than in any other season.
If their parents and guardians would see
that they are kept properly clean, and have
free range out of doors (never at mid-day,
or in the night air), subsist on a plain and
mildly stimulating diet, of which cooked
fruits, or the ripe fruits of the season un-
cooked, should form a lagre proportion,
sleep in well-aired and well-sunned apart-
ments, and avoid the usual course of drug-
ging, relying for medicines upon what Na-
ture so amply provides during the Summer
season, in the fields, woods, and by the
roadside, mortality among the juveniles
would be decreased by a large percentage.
Grown people would do well to adapt this 
advice to their own cases.—“Shakesperian  ' 
Almanac.”


﻿THE CELEBRATION of the recent marriage
of the second son of Mr. Powers, the sculp-
tor, at Florence, brought together all the
English and American residents of that city.
There was something, it was observed, ex-
quisitely picturesque in all the accessories
of the social festival; the handsome old
man, surrounded, as in patriarchal days,
with his blooming family of sons, daughters,
and grandchildren, receiving his family in
one of the loveliest of the Tuscan villas
which lie scattered over the wonderful high-
way that now surrounds the City of Flowers.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	  L. L. GREENE, Editor.
   Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1.  Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
  Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
  Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.
	SALT LAKE CITY, JUNE 15, 1872.


SPLINTERS.
			
  The coming musical prodigy is an infant
three years old, in New York, who sings
airs from the operas and plays the accompa-
niment correctly without practice or teach-
ing, apparently by instinct......A prayer
meeting was held in a Connecticut village,
over the case of a sister who had determined
on wedding-“a man of sin.” During the
meeting the sister arose, went out, and mar-
ried the fellow......It is reported that more
than two-fifths of the population of Brooklyn
are boarders, and more than one fourth of
its fifty-eight thousand houses are boarding
houses......The Prime Minister of the Fiji
Islands has gone to Australia for the purpose
of negotiating a loan......The proposed Rus-
sian canal, intended to connect the Black
Sea with the Caspian, is favored by the Gov-
ernment......A combined purpose to put
down gambling hells in London, is largely
occupying the attention of the police and
Government of that metropolis......The fa-
ther of James Fisk may be met frequently
in Broadway, New York, a plain, quiet old
man, who saw a world of trouble in his way-
ward son......A tent 100 x 150 feet was put
up in Oakland last month, for the Sunday
School Convention.......Champanini, a new
tenor, who appears in London, is said to sur-
pass Giuglini.......The price of water in Pi-
oche has been reduced from four to two and
a half cents per gallon......Mining wages in
Montana average about $5.00 per day......
The Santa Barbara “Press” continues to
urge the people to aid the railroad......La-
borers now get $2.50 per day in Oregon, for
the first time in ten years......Mrs. Mary
Patelle has reported at Washington that she
is going to be successful in procuring pre-
emption rights for the women in Oregon
and the Territories......Theo. Tilton thus il-
lustrates Greeley’s “disciplined and pene-
trating instinct:" “We have known him
to sleep through a long speech, and then at
its close rise and reply to it, point for point.”
......Thomas Carlyle, the great English au-
thor, has come out in favor of a prohibitory
liquor law for England......A young man in
Chicago, being intoxicated, recently hung
himself in a barn window, while endeavor-
ing to enter the barn, and was not discov-
ered until he was suffocated......Miss Nellie
Grant has been entertained at lunch by Ma-
dame Thiers......The Imperial army band of
Germany and the band of the British Gren-
adier Guards, will participate in the World’s
Peace Jubilee at Boston......Captain Bird, of
the trading schooner “Eagle,” and crew of
six men, are reported to have been murdered
by savages on one of the Solomon Islands......
An English statesman, now seventy-four
years of age, publishes a work entitled “ As-
tronomy and Geology compared,” in which
he controverts the theory of Darwin......Half
a million of dollars is said to have been
drawn from the San Francisco banks, from
the latter part of April to the first of June,
by small depositors who were enticed into
mining stock purchases......Recently, while
a party of engineers were examining the
disused gangway of Pine Ridge colliery, two
miles from Wilkesbarre, Pa., an explosion
of fire-damp took place. Three men were
killed and another badly hurt......The body
of a man, supposed to have been murdered
was lately found in East river, New York
with his hands and feet strapped together.
......The Equal Rights Convention, at New
York, after volumes of persiflage, voted to
enter the canvass with the Goddess of Lib-
erty on their banner, and authorize $3,000
in bonds to elect Victoria Woodhull to the
Presidency......Mr. Quincy, of Massachu-
setts, opposes woman suffrage. Who cares?

......Abram Garber, of Virginia, died a
few days since of lockjaw, produced by a
slight wound to one of his toes.....James
Gordon Bennett leaves an ample fortune,
entirely the results of his journalistic labors.
......Taxation is a vestige of civilization un-
known in Morocco. The funds raised there
are called “loans,”......Prof. Ring, of Bos-
ton, loses $20,000 in his mammoth balloon
which took fire spontaneously, and was de-
stroyed, on the 6th inst......Mr. Georrwine,
of Louisville, a German 62 years of age, ac-
cidentally walked into a cistern and was
drowned......A medical and surgical history
of the rebellion is soon to be completed and
published......The French band that came
from France to take part in the Jubilee, ar-
rived at Boston on the morning of the 7th.
.....An Indiana man lately obtained a divorce
from his ninth wife......A Kentucky bull,
worth a thousand dollars, and a locomotive
had an encounter recently. The hide and
tallow didn’t sell for much......Belladona in-
jected under the skin of the arms saved a
Massachusetts woman who indulged in a
deathly dose of opium........The Emperor
William, of Germany, is said to be steadily
sinking into his grave.


﻿IMPORTANT INDUSTRIES.
			   
  Virtue reigns in the rural districts. This
truism though old will bear repeating. And
every industry which offers employment for
the young in their own homes, with equal pe-
cuniary compensation to that which would be
obtained in large factories, where contamina-
tion with immoral tendencies is too frequent,
should be encouraged.
  Just now two industries of this character pre-
sent themselves for consideration and a season-
able word in their favor. One is straw-plait-
ing; the other is sericulture. Both are easily
learned, light and cleanly. Many women in
Utah understand the straw-plaiting business
thoroughly, and we have seen as handsome
work made by some of them as we have ever
seen on imported straw goods. It is an occupa-
tion that can be followed in the Winter; and
when Spring comes, the plaited straw can be
worked up into the desired fashions that vari-
ous tastes demand. The outlay is compara-
tively nothing. A bunch of rye or wheat straw
furnishes the material and lithe young fingers
can soon learn to deftly weave the plaits with
neatness and dispatch. One great objection
made against patronizing home-manufactured
straw goods Is that they cost more than impor-
ted goods. This should be met by workers not
demanding too high pay, and by dealers doing
with the lowest possible profits. By and by,
when a thriving business has been successfully
created,it will be found that Utah straw goods
can be made and furnished as cheap as those
imported, if not cheaper.
   Sericulture only occupies a portion of the time
during the Summer. The mulberry trees grow,
and when Spring time comes they put forth
their leaves as food for the busy worms, which
eat and work, spinning the silken home for
their eggs. These eggs are valuable as an arti-


cle of commerce. Apart from the fact that the
manufacture of silk is a pleasant as well as
profitable occupation, from the breeding and
sale of the eggs alone a handsome income can
be secured with little trouble and less outlay.
  We do not design to elaborate on either topic
now, but merely present them to keep them
before the public mind, for they have often been
dwelt upon through the press and from the
stand, and should be familiar to most of the
readers of the EXPONENT.


﻿DANGEROUS EXCESSES.
			   
   Revolutions are ever attended by excesses.
No matter how wisely designed, or how well
conducted, there are always found associated
with them people of ill-balanced minds and in-
temperate judgments who run riot in extremes.
There is a social revolution now in progress in
the United States. While it affects all classes,
colors, and creeds, and both sexes, its progress
promises to be directly fraught with grave re-
sults to women. The mere recognition of a de-
fined and extended political status would be
comparatively unimportant, when weighed
with the sweeping changes in the very struc-
ture of society which some advocates of wo-
man’s rights contemplate and defend. Time
was when the retiring grace of modesty, with
which maidens and matrons were adorned, was
considered their greatest charm, when home-
life and domestic affections were considered
holy and sacred things, and when a union of
hearts and hands was held as enduring as exist-
ence. True, there were exceptions as there are
to all general rules, and many of them ; but
this was the prevailing sentiment. Now, to
the demand for a wider recognition of the claims
which are justly preferred for women, are added
others which aim at securing full license to
gratify every passion or wild desire by which
ungoverned minds may be swayed. With the
right to vote, and the right to earn honest mo-
ney by honest industry in pursuits from which
women have been debarred, is claimed the
privilege to set natural laws and sound social
regulations at defiance. It is demanded that
the sacred bonds of marriage shall be disre-
garded whenever fleeting fancy desires change;
that the holy feelings which unite parents and
children shall be discountenanced ; and that
the offspring of a relationship unhallowed by
any stronger matrimonial tie than mutual de-
sire shall become the property of the State, thus
seeking to destroy the family circle, filial love,
parental care, and fraternal affection.
  These are some of the dangerous excesses into
which certain advocates of woman's rights have
already run. That they will encourage immo-
rality, increase vice and work serious evil to a
limited extent, is beyond question; but that
they will ever find an abiding place, or an en-
dorsement, in the sober thoughts and calm re-
flections of the women of America, we  do not
for a moment imagine. Still, as children should
be taught carefulness in handling dangerous
weapons, or instructed on the fatal effects of
deadly poisons, so parents should earnestly
warn the young against specious doctrines
which, under the sacred name of liberty, claim
license of the most revolting and unrestrained
character ; and, if universally adopted, would
make society a chaos and a scene of unbridled
passions, from which every pure intelligence
would shrink with loathing unutterable.


﻿THE following is Aunt Betsey’s descrip-
tion of her milkman : “He is the meanest
man in the world !  He skims his milk on
the top, and then he turns it over and skims
it on the bottom.”


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.
	
	UTAH is credited with having made more cor-
rect land entries and receiving patents up to a later
date than any other place in the country.
Brief as has been the EXPONENT's existence so
far, it has been praised and bespattered already in
different quarters, Those who uttered the first
have our thanks; and as it suits the others to so
advertise our paper, we are content.

  SALT LAKE CITY is putting on metropolitan airs.
Large iron-fronted stores are being multiplied, busi-
ness crowds the streets, massive chignons and
 “Dolly Vardens” dot the sidewalks, and small
youths with slender canes make themselves conspic-
uous at limited intervals.

    STOREKEEPERS AND salesmen ought to be grate-
ful to the municipal authorities of Salt Lake City
for the ordinance which requires them to keep their
doors closed on Sundays, as it gives them a chance
for a needed periodical day of rest, which ' might
otherwise be denied some of them.

  HON. W. H. HOOPER, Delegate in Congress for
Utah, is expected home to-morrow night, the l6th.
He deserves well of the people of Utah, for he has
been an energetic, faithful and unflinching advocate
of their rights.   Hons. Geo. Q. Cannon and Frank
Fuller, who have also been in Washington acting in
behalf of the citizens of this Territory accompany
him.

  THE JUDGE who from his place on the bench
sought to brand thousands of the purest women in
Utah—matrons whose blameless lives would sanctify
any community on the continent—with the foulest
stigma, returns to again occupy the same position.
He may exercise the power, but he will fail to
command the respect which his office should receive.
The Supreme Court of the United States has so pro-
nounced, and the country at large has endorsed the
justness of the decision.

   WE HAVE received numerous words of encour-
agement, by letter and orally, since the first number
of the Exponent was issued, These are gratify-
ing, and in several instances they have been accom-
panied by more substantial tokens in the shape of
lists of subscribers. It is pleasing to know that
the paper meets the general approval; and to re-
ciprocate the kind wishes offered for its success,
we shall endeavor to make it as interesting, instruc-
tive and valuable as we possibly can.

  SEVERAL CASES of drowning and other serious
accidents have occurred within the last few days in
this and neighboring localities. One of the saddest
was the case of Mrs. Whitehead, of Sugar House
Ward, who on the eve of approaching maternity
accidentally fell into the swollen creek and was
swept down stream and drowned. Her name
stands upon the EXPONENT'S subscription list, but
the day the first number was carried out to Sugar
House Ward she was thus untimely snatched from
earth.

   THE IOWA Press Association are en route to Salt
Lake, a hundred persons, it is said, forming the
excursion party. Still other delegations of the edi-
torial brotherhood could visit this region to advan-
tage, if they would remain sufficiently long to learn
facts, so that they might afterwards speak justly
and understandingly of Utah and its inhabitants. 

A little more knowledge concerning Utah as it is
and has been, possessed by editors, and a great
deal less reliance on the misrepresentations of cer-
tain correspondents, would hurt nobody and would
benefit the country.

  THERE HAS occurred some difficulty in having
the EXPONENT delivered in this city, which we are
wiling to meet thus: We will send the papers
through the postoffice, or in parcels into the several
wards; and for those who are desirous of having
them delivered at their residences, a newspaper-
carrier will so distribute them for twenty-five cents
a year from each subscriber.  Will subscribers in-
form us which way they prefer?


﻿DIGNITY OF APPEARANCE.
			   
  It was a worthy thought expressed by a lady of
sense, only a few days ago, in something like the
following words:
  "If a man looks more dignified in a plain black
suit, with white collar and cuffs, than in any other
style of dress (and he certainly does to me), why
should not a woman appear most dignified in a sim-
iIar sort of dress?”
  Sure enough ! Is there so much difference be-
tween man and woman that, while one would look
worse than dandified, perfectly ridiculous, with rib-
bons and laces, and artificials placed upon the per-
son as adorning ornaments, such things can add to
the beauty, grace or dignified appearance of the
other ?
  This verisimilar idea may justly be extended to
the inner being, the soul of man and woman; for
there, if at all, true dignity and nobility must exist,
If it is frippery in man to spend his precious mo-
ments in idle gossip concerning fashion, flirtations,
or other nonsense, is it not vanity in woman to do
likewise? And if it is wise and ennobling in man
to cultivate higher principles of real refinement and
lasting wisdom, must not the same course be judi-
cious and elevating when pursued by woman ?
  This short article is not intended to convey the
the notion that men and women should be clothed
without distinction in many ways, or that it is ne-
cessary for woman to be educated in the arts of war,
and other things that are hardly fit for man to med-
dle with, lest evil come of it. But, as every true
woman is better pleased with a real dignified man
than a fop, it is supposable that every true man
must be more favorably impressed with a genuine
dignified woman than with a butterfly of fashion.
And as a varied display of feathers, flowers, and
fripperies would serve to completely change the
appearance of the one, it seems impossible for the
same things to enhance the appearance of the other.
										G.


PEN AND SCISSORS.
				
	 HAVE you your great grandmother’s bon-
net put away anywhere? If you have bring
it out, and wear it, envied by all your
friends as the happy possessor of the latest
thing out.

   IT HAS been estimated that at least one-
fifth of the land should be planted with for-
est trees in order to maintain the proper hy-
grometic and electric equilibrium for suc-
cessful farming.

   Somebody tells the “Scientific American”
of a way to clear a well of carbonic acid gas.
It is to lower a red-hot iron in the water, so
as to produce a little steam. The vapor in-
stantly absorbs the gas.

  THE average wages paid per day to me-
chanics in Austria is $1; in England, $1.25;
in Prussia,75 cents; in France, $1.10; in
Belgium, Norway and Sweden, 60 cents; in
Italy and Portugal, 40 cents.

	“CAN you tell me how old the devil is?”
asked an irreverent fellow of a clergyman.
"My friend, you must keep your own family
record,” was the answer.
	A PEKIN woman, asked if her husband
feared the Lord, replied, “Fear him ? why,
bless you, he is so ’feared of him that he
never goes out of the house o’ Sundays with-
out taking his gun along.”
	There are 103 ladies employed in the dif-
ferent branches of the Interior Department
at Washington.  Their salaries range from
$900 to $1,200. The Treasury Department
gives employment to 265 women.
	An eccentric Connecticut gentleman, re-
cently deceased, left to religious institutions
$75,000, to his cook $120,000, and to each of
his five children $400. This man’s affec-
tions lay principally in his stomach.
	Said a Detroit lady to a gentleman of that
city, “You are a musician, I believe?”
"No,” said he ; “ If I were the proprietor of
a hand organ, set expressly to play ‘Old
Hundred,’ I couldn’t get seventy-five out
of it.”
     A BALTIMORE minister has been deposed
just for playing whisky poker and auction
pitch for the drinks in a lager beer saloon.
How particular some people are becoming.
The next thing will be to stop clergymen offi-
ciating who indulge in any of the “larger
vices.”
   PROGRESSIVE teacher to a pupil of the
period : “ Sary Jane Hooker, just take that
chewing gum right out of your mouth. Lit-
tle girls who chew gum in school need
never expect- to become President of the
United States.” Ambitious young ladies,
with Presidential aspirations, will please
take due notice, and reduce the gum traffic
proportionately.
   “Will you please hand me the scissors ?”
asked a lady of her little boy. And when
he had done as requested she courteously
acknowledged the accommodation by say-
ing, “ Thank you, dear.” A young “rough”
who happened to be present enquired,
"Why do you say ‘if you please’ and ‘ thank
you’ to that boy?”  To which the lady re-
plied : “Because I wish him to do the
same by me, and all others.” If that boy
does not make a polite and affable man,
it will not be the fault of his mother.
	Some of the magnesian cements used in
India are remarkably firm and durable.
They begin settling in two or three hours,
and become hard in a few days, continuing
to harden for many years.
	At a recent trial the counsel for the prose-
cution, after severely cross-examining a wit-
ness, suddenly put on a look of severity and
exclaimed:
	“Now, sir, was not an effort made to in-
duce you to tell a different story ?”
	“A different story from what I have told,
do you mean?”
	“That’s what I mean.”
	“Yes, sir; several persons have tried to
get me to tell a different story from what I-
have told, but they couldn’t.”
	“Now sir, upon your oath, I wish to know
who these persons are.”
	“Well, you’ve tried about as hard as any
of them.”
  He was questioned no further on that
point.


﻿THE New Haven “Palladium" says: A young
man, at a wedding in Bedford recently, while prom-
enading with a lady, chanced to approach the offi-
ciating clergyman, who happening to be deaf, and
supposing them to be the couple he had come to
unite, immediately married them in spite of remon-
strance.  They accepted the situation.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FACTS AND FIGURES.
				
THE piano was Invented 155 years ago.
BONNER'S ten horses have cost him $145,-
500.
 THE new style of artificial flower is called
“ cinders do Chicago.”
   IN England wedding rings are required
to be made 22 carats fine.
  No less than 685,000 sewing machines
were made in America last year.
  MENTION is made of umbrellas in Chinese
books printed more than 1,500 years ago.
  GLASS bottles were made in England about
1558, but the art was practised by the Ro-
mans in 79, A. D.
  ONE person is born in London every five
minutes, and another dies every seven min-
utes in that great city.
 A .MASSUCHUSETTS organ grinder has a
bank account of $10,000 and shows no dis-
position to retire from his lucrative profes-
sion.
 THE first daily paper established in Eng-
land is said to have been published in 1702
by Elizabeth Mallet. It was called the
“ Daily Courant.”
   THERE are but three farms in Massachu-
setts having over 1,000 acres of land—one of
them is in Bristol, one in Dukes and one in
Norfolk county.
   FOOT'S comedy of “ The Lame Lover,”
first played at the Haymarket Theatre, Lon-
don, in 1770, was recently revived in that
city, but with poor success.
  THE State of Florida has 58,268 square
miles, while Pennsylvania has only 46,000.
Its situation resembles that of Italy, and it
is estimated that it can support as large a
population.
 THE Catskill (N, Y.) Mountain House
stands 3,000 feet above the Hudson, and
from the front balcony a view extending
over about 10,000 square miles can be had
on a clear day.
 THE population of Europe at the present
time is three hundred and forty millions.
It has doubled within a century. The Uni-
ted States doubles its population every quar-
ter of a century.
  A VERY curious map is in the Galerie d’
Apollon, in the Louvre.  It represents
France in the time of Louis XIV., and is
composed of various colored marbles, like
Florentine mosaic.
  MR. Julius A. Sumner, of Akron, Ohio,
claims to be the first man to ride on a pas-
senger car in the United States; that he
sailed on the first steamboat on Lake Erie,
and built the first rolling mill and nail fac-
tory in Ohio.
 THERE are 22 saw-mills at Muskegon,
Michigan, most of which doubled their ca-
pacity last winter, and are now running day
and night, with two gangs of hands. The
daily lumber product of Muskegon will be
about 2,000,000 feet, besides lath.
  IT requires five millions of men, half a
million of horses and eight thousand can-
non, maintained at an annual expense of
seven hundred millions of dollars to pre-
serve the peace of Europe. This is exclu-
sive of the cost of forts, arsenals, ships, wa-
gons, tents, hospitals, etc., etc.
  SWITZERLAND is said to be the only coun-
try in Europe where more money is spent
on education than on the army. The edu-
cational budget is two millions of francs,
while the military expenses remain below
that sum; yet, when needed, the little re-
public can raise an army of 200,000 men.


﻿A PRESIDENTIAL ASPIRANT.

	The “ Fat Contributor” thus humorously
puts forth his claims for the Presidency of
the United States. He should run well if
his adolescent adipose does not impede his
speed:
	The hour has arrived. I can hesitate no
longer. The highest interests of the nation
demand that I present myself as a candidate
for President of the United States. I have
waited for some one else to bring me out,
but in the multitude of candidates no one
seems to have thought of me. And I don’t
think much of myself; but a man don’t
want to be much of himself to be a candidate
for President now a days. If he had any
self-regard at the outset he would think very
little of himself by the time he got through
with the campaign.
	I am one of the people—I might say, one
of the boys. I came up from obscurity, and
I have brought up a good deal of obscurity
with me. I never had any politics—or
much else. I am “ Liberal” to a fault, and
ready to receive votes from any quarter, al-
though I am not ready to give quarters for
votes.
	As for a platform, suit yourself, gentle-
men. The lecture platform would probably
suit me as well as any other. Having stood
upon nearly every platform in the West, it
would be hard for you to get up one I could
not stand on.
	I am the special friend of the laboring
man. No one likes to see a man work bet-
ter than I do. In fact, I had rather see a
man work than work myself. I am not
only averse to working more than eight
hours, but I am opposed to working a single
hour! I shan’t even work for my election,
leaving that for the men who want the of-
fices.
	I am in favor of paying the national debt.
It is in fact the only debt I am in favor of
paying. And rather than not see it paid
during my administration I will pay it out
of my own pocket.
	In the matter of civil service reform I in-
tend to do the civil thing by the nation if
the nation does the civil thing by me. Be-
ing civil is so rare a condition now a days in
the varied walks of life (to say nothing
about the runs) that reform is urgently cal-
led for.
	Retrenchment is my motto. If you can’t
put a retrenchment plank in the platform
put in a board. I am ready to work with-
out any salary, but I shall insist upon my
board.
	I am rather inclined to Free Trade, pre-
ferring to feel free to trade wherever I
please, but if a Tariff plank is necessary to
my election, put it in. I shall not get on a
Tar-iff I ain’t elected.
	Pledge me as strong as you please to the
Temperance men. The temperance pledge
won’t hurt me one bit.
	No relative shall hold office, no matter
whose relation he may be. I shall appoint
none but old bachelors, childless widows,
and orphans. Any man who has a relation
in the world need not apply for an office un-
der my administration. I have a few rela-
tives of my own, holding office now, but they
shall be promptly kicked out as soon as I
am elected. One brother-in-law has a little
coal office on the river. He must give it
up. A third cousin on my neighbor’s side
drinks too much occasionally, and gets office
foot I shall give him notice to quit. An-
other relation has a hankering after George
Eliss’ “Office.” It won’t do him any good.
You see I am determined to reduce the
“relative” expenses of the Government.
[right column]
	I engage not to accept any gift, unless it
be the highest office in the gift of the peo-
ple. If over I am called “ Our present Chief
Magistrate,”-it won’t be a chief magistrate
of presents. Not being a man of command-
ing presence anyhow, there would probably
be few presents that I could command.
What few natural gifts I may have, how-
ever, I shall endeavor to retain. They are
not worth making any fuss about.
	I am not only in favor of woman’s rights,
but of woman’s rights and lefts. I am in
favor of women voting providing they vote
for me. I see no reason why a woman
should not hold an office, except, perhaps,
the difficulty of getting hold of it. Nor
should there be any bar to a woman’s accu-
mulating property and supporting the family
if she wants to.
	I may be asked how I would treat the In-
dians. I wouldn’t “ treat” them at all.. .They
have been treated too much and too often.
My private opinion, however, is that it will
be a treat when there isn’t an Injun left.
	I stand by the old constitution that has
been tried. Few men have tried their con-
stitution more than I have tried mine. I
accept the amendments, every one of them.
When it comes to amends, I am ready to
shout “ amen” as loud as anybody.
	I understand there is an ambitious man
named George Francis Train, who aspires to
be President on his promise to free Ireland.
I engage not only to free Ireland but make
Irish whisky free in the bargain. I shall at
least be able to tie George Francis in the.
popular voto unless' one of us is kept away
from the polls. Hang it! I could tie the
Davenport brothers!
	I shall inaugurate a wholesale emancipa-
tion businesses soon as I am inaugurated. No
goods retailed at the White House when I
am President. I engage to emancipate the
women from the thraldom of fashion, to
give the “ boys” their rights, and abolish
the custom which excludes children in arms
from the elevating and purifying influences
of the theatre. I have pledged myself to
free Ireland and to free postage; to free
housekeepers from the tyranny of servant
girls ; free pews, free passes, and free boot-
ers. To free soil, to free tickets to shows,
free drinks, free press, and “J. N.” Free.
I trust I am not making myself too free.

----
	A PRESIDENTIAL ASPIRANT.
	The “Fat Contributor” thus humorously
puts forth his claims for the Presidency of
the United States. He should run well if
his adolescent adipose does not impede his
speed:
	The hour has arrived. I can hesitate no
longer. The highest interests of the nation
demand that I present myself as a candidate
for President of the United States. I have
waited for some one else to bring me out,
but in the multitude of candidates no one
seems to have thought of me. And I don’t
think much of myself; but a man don’t
want to be much of himself to be a candidate
for President now a days. If he had any
self-regard at the outset he would think very
little of himself by the time he got through
with the campaign.
	I am one of the people—I might say, one
of the boys. I came up from obscurity, and
I have brought up a good deal of obscurity
with me. I never had any politics—or
much else. I am “Liberal” to a fault, and
ready to receive votes from any quarter, al-
though I am not ready to give quarters for
votes.
	As for a platform, suit yourself, gentle-
men. The lecture platform would probably
suit me as well as any other. Having stood
upon nearly every platform in the West, it
would be hard for you to get up one I could
not stand on.
	I am the special friend of the laboring
man. No one likes to see a man work bet-
ter than I do. In fact, I had rather see a
man work than work myself. I am not
only averse to working more than eight
hours, but I am opposed to working a single
hour! I shan’t even work for my election,
leaving that for the men who want the of-
fices.
	I am in favor of paying the national debt.
It is in fact the only debt I am in favor of
paying. And rather than not see it paid
during my administration I will pay it out
of my own pocket.
	In the matter of civil service reform I in-
tend to do the civil thing by the nation if
the nation does the civil thing by me. Be-
ing civil is so rare a condition now a days in
the varied walks of life (to say nothing
about the runs) that reform is urgently cal-
led for.
	Retrenchment is my motto. If you can’t
put a retrenchment plank in the platform
put in a board. I am ready to work with-
out any salary, but I shall insist upon my
board.
	I am rather inclined to Free Trade, pre-
ferring to feel free to trade wherever I
please, but if a Tariff plank is necessary to
my election, put it in. I shall not get on a
Tar-iff I ain’t elected.
	Pledge me as strong as you please to the
Temperance men. The temperance pledge
won’t hurt me one bit.
	No relative shall hold office, no matter
whose relation he may be. I shall appoint
none but old bachelors, childless widows,
and orphans. Any man who has a relation
in the world need not apply for an office un-
der my administration. I have a few rela-
tives of my own, holding office now, but they
shall be promptly kicked out as soon.as I
am elected. One brother-in-law has a little
coal office on the river. He must give it
up. A third cousin on my neighbor’s side
drinks too much occasionally, and gets office
foot. I shall give him notice to quit. An-
other relation has a hankering after George
Eliss’ “Office.” It won’t do him any good.
You see I am determined to reduce the
“relative” expenses of the Government.
	I engage not to accept any gift, unless it
be the highest office in the gift of the peo-
ple. If over I am called “Our present Chief
Magistrate,” it won’t be a chief magistrate
of presents. Not being a man of command-
ing presence anyhow, there would probably
be few presents that I could command.
What few natural gifts I may have, how-
ever, I shall endeavor to retain. They are
not worth making any fuss about.
	I am not only in favor of woman’s rights,
but of woman’s rights and lefts. I am in
favor of women voting providing they vote
for me. I see no reason why a woman
should not hold an office, except, perhaps,
the difficulty of getting hold of it. Nor
should there be any bar to a woman’s accu-
mulating property and supporting the family
if she wants to.
	I may be asked how I would treat the In-
dians. I wouldn’t “treat” them at all. They
have been treated too much and too often.
My private opinion, however, is that it will
be a treat when there isn’t an Injun left.
	I stand by the old constitution that has
been tried. Few men have tried their con-
stitution more than I have tried mine. I
accept the amendments, every one of them.
When it comes to amends, I am ready to
shout “amen” as loud as anybody.
	I understand there is an ambitious man
named George Francis Train, who aspires to
be President on his promise to free Ireland.
I engage not only to free Ireland but make
Irish whisky free in the bargain. I shall at
least be able to tie George Francis in the
popular vote unless one of us is kept away
from the polls. Hang it! I could tie the
Davenport brothers!
	I shall inaugurate a wholesale emancipa-
tion business as soon as I am inaugurated. No
goods retailed at the White House when I
am President. I engage to emancipate the
women from the thraldom of fashion, to
give the “boys” their rights, and abolish
the custom which excludes children in arms
from the elevating and purifying influences
of the theatre. I have pledged myself to
free Ireland and to free postage; to free
housekeepers from the tyranny of servant
girls; free pews, free passes, and free boot-
ers. To free soil, to free tickets to shows,
free drinks, free press, and “J. N.” Free.
I trust I am not making myself too free.
----
	   ﻿A PRESIDENTIAL ASPIRANT.
		         	—
The “ Fat Contributor” thus humorously
puts forth his claims for the Presidency of
the United States. He should run well if
his adolescent adipose does not impede his
speed:
    The hour has arrived. I can hesitate no
longer. The highest interests of the nation
demand that I present myself as a candidate
for President of the United States. I have
waited for some one else to bring me out,
but in the multitude of candidates no one
seems to have thought of me. And I don’t
think much of myself; but a man don’t
want to be much of himself to be a candidate
for President now a days. If he had any
self-regard at the outset he would think very
little of himself by the time he got through
with the campaign.
I am one of the people—I might say, one
of the boys.  I came up from obscurity, and
I have brought up a good deal of obscurity
with me. I never had any politics—or
much else. I am “ Liberal” to a fault, and
ready to receive votes from any quarter, al-
though I am not ready to give quarters for
votes.
   As for a platform, suit yourself, gentle-
men. The lecture platform would probably
suit me as well as any other. Having stood
upon nearly every platform in the West, it
would be hard for you to get up one I could
not stand on.
   I am the special friend of the laboring
man. No one likes to see a man work bet-
ter than I do. In fact, I had rather see a
man work than work myself. I am not
only averse to working more than eight
hours, but I am opposed to working a single
hour! I shan’t even work for my election,
leaving that for the men who want the of-
fices.
   I am in favor of paying the national debt.
It is in fact the only debt I am in favor of
paying. And rather than not see it paid
during my administration I will pay it out
of my own pocket.
   In the matter of civil service reform I in-
tend to do the civil thing by the nation if
the nation does the civil thing by me. Be-
ing civil is so rare a condition now a days in
the varied walks of life (to say nothing
about the runs) that reform is urgently cal-
led for.
   Retrenchment is my motto. If you can’t
put a retrenchment plank in the platform
put in a board. I am ready to work with-
out any salary, but I shall insist upon my
board.
  I am rather inclined to Free Trade, pre-
ferring to feel free to trade wherever I
please, but if a Tariff plank is necessary to
my election, put it in. I shall not get on a
Tar-iff I ain’t elected.
   Pledge me as strong as you please to the
Temperance men. The temperance pledge
won’t hurt me one bit.
No relative shall hold office, no matter
whose relation he may be. I shall appoint
none but old bachelors, childless widows,
and orphans. Any man who has a relation
in the world need not apply for an office un-
der my administration. I have a few rela-
tives of my own, holding office now, but they
shall be promptly kicked out as soon as I
am elected. One brother-in-law has a little
coal office on the river. He must give it
up.   A third cousin on my neighbor’s side
drinks too much occasionally, and gets office
foot.  I shall give him notice to quit. An-
other relation has a hankering after George
Eliss’ “ Office.” It won’t do him any good.
You see I am determined to reduce the
“relative” expenses of the Government.
[end of column; start of new column]
I engage not to accept any gift, unless it
be the highest office in the gift of the peo-
ple. If over I am called “ Our present Chief
Magistrate,”-it won’t be a chief magistrate
of presents. Not being a man of command-
ing presence anyhow, there would probably
be few presents that I could command.
What few natural gifts I may have, how-
ever, I shall endeavor to retain. They are
not worth making any fuss about.
  I am not only in favor of woman’s rights,
but of woman’s rights and lefts. I am in
favor of women voting providing they vote
for me. I see no reason why a woman
should not hold an office, except, perhaps,
the difficulty of getting hold of it. Nor
should there be any bar to a woman’s accu-
mulating property and supporting the family
if she wants to.
   I may be asked how I would treat the In-
dians. I wouldn’t “ treat” them at all.. .They
have been treated too much and too often.
My private opinion, however, is that it will
be a treat when there isn’t an Injun left.
  I stand by the old constitution that has
been tried. Few men have tried their con-
stitution more than I have tried mine. I
accept the amendments, every one of them.
When it comes to amends, I am ready to
shout “ amen” as loud as anybody.
I understand there is an ambitious man
named George Francis Train, who aspires to
be President on his promise to free Ireland.
I engage not only to free Ireland but make
Irish whisky free in the bargain. I shall at
least be able to tie George Francis in the.
popular vote unless one of us is kept away
from the polls. Hang it! I could tie the
Davenport brothers !
   I shall inaugurate a wholesale emancipa-
tion businesses soon as I am inaugurated. No
goods retailed at the White House when I
am President.    I engage to emancipate the
women from the thraldom of fashion, to
give the “ boys” their rights, and abolish
the custom which excludes children in arms
from the elevating and purifying influences
of the theatre. I have pledged myself to
free Ireland and to free postage; to free
housekeepers from the tyranny of servant
girls ; free pews, free passes, and free boot-
ers. To free soil, to free tickets to shows,
free drinks, free press, and “J. N;” Free.
I trust I am not making myself too free.


﻿A BRUTAL SPANISH PROCLAMATION.—
The Madrid correspondent of the “Indepen-
dence Belge” states that General Buceta, in
assnming command of the troops at Malaga,
addressed them in the following most re-
markable terms :   “ Soldiers, I am informed
that the inhabitants of Malaga may perhaps
attempt an insurrectional rising in connec-
tion with the election; in this case, do not
suppose that I shall send you into the street
to obtain possession of the barricades.  No;
we shall march out of the city, and from
thence the artillery will destroy it. We
shall then return and march through its
ruins, which will be strewn with corpses.
Let no quarter be given; I won’t have any
prisoners made, as they might manage to
escape.  I wish that you may be able to
say :  ‘ General, I have killed so many men
without making a single prisoner.’  My,
opinion is that to hold in check one-half of
the population, it is necessary to kill the
other half. I speak to you in the name of
the national Sovereign.”


﻿A WOMAN, at Pittsfield, Mass., a few
days ago, took a photographer to the tomb
where the body of her deceased brother lay,
and they stood the corpse up against the
door and took its portrait.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿ABOUT WOMEN.
		
	THE Empress of Austria is said to be the
most beautiful woman in Europe.
  THE religious department of a St. Louis
paper is in charge of Miss Fanny Holy.
  A PROVIDENCE lady lecturer concludes it
won’t pay. Only two tickets were sold.
  THE Michigan University at Ann Arbor
has sixty-three young women students.
  MAGGIE MITCHELL has made her re-entry
to the dramatic world on the stage of a Bos-
ton theatre.
  MRS. Fanny Frazer Foster is considered
one of the most successful singing teachers
in the United States.
  A BALL was recently given at Marion,
New York, at which every lady present
wore a Dolly Varden costume.
  NEW HAVEN has a ladies’ reading room,
furnished with piano, tables, handsome car-
pet, local and weekly papers, etc.
  A TERRE HAUTE lady aged threescore
years and ten has attended every circus
within reach since she was five years old.
  MRS. Florence Donahue, a lady of Chicope,
Mass., not yet thirty years old, is mother of
fifteen children.  She weighs 249 pounds.
  MISS Ellen F. Starbuck has been the con-
fidential clerk to the last three Governors of
Massachusetts—Andrews, Bullock, and Claf-
lin.
  ’TIS said that a Hindoo in the city of Al-
labad (“ city of God”) has a diamond worth
an untold amount and weighing above 100
carats.
  FANS for the convenience of lazy women
have been attached to sewing machines and
are worked by the power which runs the
machine.
  MRS. Jane Farley, in a fit of jealous des-
pondency, cut her throat in a friend’s house
in New York, lately, dying in a few
minutes.
  HALF the depositors in the Massachusetts
savings banks are women, and $26,000,000
is the sum total of the amount deposited by
these delightful darlings.
  MADAM Kibrisli Pasha, widow of the late
Grand Vizier Kibrisli Mehamet Pasha, will
issue an autobiographical work called
“Thirty Years in a Harem.”
  A LADY who was inclined to favor ,the
woman suffrage movement, went to Wash-
ington, had a chat with Dr. Mary Walker,
and came back bitterly opposed to it.
  MRS. Dr. Mary J. Studley ranked third in
a recent competitive examination for five
positions on the house staff of the New York
Charity Hospital. She will not have a place,
however, on the ground that the medical
board “deem it inexpedient to appoint a fe-
male to such a position.”
   A BOSTON bride, whose groom remonstra-
ted with her at the wedding for indulging
in a rather indiscriminate bestowal of her
maiden kisses on a number of her male
friends, remarked with natural naivete that
the gentlemen in question had been in the
habit of kissing her all her life, and she
didn’t see why they should stop now.
  MRS. Peter Gronda, of Mackinac, is the
prolific mother of twenty-three children,
the grandmother of fifteen children, the off-
spring of a son, and thirteen more the off-
spring of a daughter.  Another daughter
has twelve more little ones, and still others
of Mrs. Gronda’s brood have flourishing
families. This multitudinous mother is vig-
orous and hearty, and uses snow-shoes in
her frequent ten-mile tramps.


﻿AN ADVENTURE,
			
	ON AND IN THE WATER.
			
Editor “ Woman’s Exponent :"
	Perhaps a brief notice of our boat excur-
sion and the little adventure we met with,
on Sunday, June 2d, might be somewhat
interesting to a portion, at least, of your
readers. Indeed the adventure itself proved
very interesting, intensely so, to us, before
we got through with it.
Mr. H. was going to start to work on the
railroad on Monday morning, so he wished
us all to go down to his farm to spend Sun-
day and take dinner. he came for us with
his horses and wagon, and all hands went, 
	After dinner it was proposed that we
should have a ride in the boat. Accordingly,
four of us, ladies, and two small children,
seated ourselves in the boat for a ride, and
Mr. H. took the position of oarsman. He
had gallantly rowed twice across the little
lake, or big pond, and we were just starting
out again, when “ the treacherous bark”
capsized and threw us all overboard into the
water. The boat went over the head of one
lady, but Mr. H. succeeded in shoving it off
from her, and out further into the water,
where the two ladies who were in the great-
est danger, being farthest from our hero, (Mr.
H.) could get hold of it; which they did, and
thus kept themselves and the infant they
had with them from sinking. Mr. H. first
gave the little boy he had taken to a lady
on shore; then helped the lady who had
been slightly hurt by the boat, to get on
shore; then myself, and then he went to
the rescue of those who were still clinging
to the boat. Through the mercies of a kind
Providence, we were all saved, and none of
us were seriously injured, not even our pre-
cious children.
	We conclude, though, that Sunday is not
the day for dinners and boat excursions;
and that if we are able to go anywhere on
that day, the proper place to go is to the
house of the Lord, to learn of His goodness
and feast upon His pleasing word.
	True, we had that day a great manifesta-
tion of His long-suffering and marvelous
kindness toward the children of men; yet
it might be looked upon as a warning, I
think. The scene was certainly an exciting
one. Imagine the position for a moment!
Smithfield.	M. G. H.

----
﻿AN ADVENTURE,
ON AND IN THE WATER.
Editor “ Woman’s Exponent
	Perhaps a brief notice of our boat excur-
sion and the little adventure we met with,
on Sunday, June 2d, might be somewhat
interesting to a portion, at least, of your
readers. Indeed the adventure itself proved
very interesting, intensely so, to us, before
we got through with it.
	Mr. H. was going to start to work on the
railroad on Monday morning, so he wished
us all to go down to his farm to spend Sun-
day and take dinner. He came for us with
his horses and wagon, and all hands went. 
	After dinner it was proposed that we
should have a ride in the boat. Accordingly,
four of us, ladies, and two small children,
seated ourselves in the boat for a ride, and
Mr. H. took the position of oarsman. He
had gallantly rowed twice across the little
lake, or big pond, and we were just starting
out again, when “ the treacherous bark”
capsized and threw us all overboard into the
water. The boat went over the head of one
lady, but Mr. H. succeeded in shoving it off
from her, and out further into the water,
where the two ladies who were in the great-
est danger, being farthest from our hero, (Mr.
H.) could get hold of it; which they did, and
thus kept themselves and the infant they
had with them from sinking. Mr. H. first
gave the little boy he had taken to a lady
on shore; then helped the lady who had
been slightly hurt by the boat, to get on
shore; then myself, and then he went to
the rescue of those who were still clinging
to the boat. Through the mercies of a kind
Providence, we were all saved, and none of
us were seriously injured, not even our pre-
cious children.
	We conclude, though, that Sunday is not
the day for dinners and boat excursions;
and that if we are able to go anywhere on
that day, the proper place to go is to the
house of the Lord, to learn of His goodness
and feast upon His pleasing word.
	True, we had that day a great manifesta-
tion of His long-suffering and marvelous
kindness toward the children of men ; yet
it might be looked upon as a warning, I
think. The scene was certainly an exciting
one. Imagine the position for a moment!
	Smithfield.			M. G. H.

		﻿AN ADVENTURE,
			   
	   ON AND IN THE WATER.
			   
Editor “ Woman’s Exponent:"
   Perhaps a brief notice of our boat excur-
sion and the little adventure we met with,
on Sunday, June 2d, might be somewhat
interesting to a portion, at least, of your
readers. Indeed the adventure itself proved
very interesting, intensely so, to us, before
we got through with it.
   Mr. H. was going to start to work on the
railroad on Monday morning, so he wished
us all to go down to his farm to spend Sun-
day and take dinner. he came for us with
his horses and wagon, and all hands wept, 
   After dinner it was proposed that we
should have a ride in the boat. Accordingly,
four of us, ladies, and two small children,
seated ourselves in the boat for a ride, and
Mr. H. took the position of oarsman. He
had gallantly rowed twice across the little
lake, or big pond, and we were just starting
out again, when “ the treacherous bark”
capsized and threw us all overboard into the
water. The boat went over the head of one
lady, but Mr. H. succeeded in shoving it off
from her, and out further into the water,
where the two ladies who were in the great-
est danger, being farthest from our hero, (Mr.
H.) could get hold of it; which they did, and
thus kept themselves and the infant they
had with them from sinking.  Mr. H. first
gave the little boy he had taken to a lady
on shore; then helped the lady who had
been slightly hurt by the boat, to get on
shore ; then myself, and then he went to
the rescue of those who were still clinging
to the boat.  Through the mercies of a kind
Providence, we were all saved, and none of
us were seriously injured, not oven our pre-
cious children.
  We conclude, though, that Sunday is not
the day for dinners and boat excursions;
and that if we are able to go anywhere on
that day, the proper place to go is to the
house of the Lord, to learn of His goodness
and feast upon His pleasing word.
   True, we had that day a great manifesta-
tion of His long-suffering and marvelous
kindness toward the children of men ; yet
it might be looked upon as a warning, I
think.  The scene was certainly an exciting
one.   Imagine the position for a moment!
   Smithfield.	M. G. H.


﻿INTELLIGENCE AND INTEGRITY.
			    
   It seems a pity, sometimes, to see persons who
are highly gifted with a noble portion of intelli-
gence, give way to evil passions, yield to the pur-
suasive voice of temptation, and fall into vice. The
query very often arises, How can they, knowing so
well the difference between the proper and improper
course, act as they do ? But the question is easily
answered.  They lack integrity; the love of truth,
the appreciation of justice and right. Yet, by their
eloquence, their ingenuity, the pleasing display of
their superior intellectual abilities, they often win
friends and obtain favors, where others, possessed
of genuine integrity and trustworthy principles, but
less brilliant in ideas and consequent appearance,
are passed by unnoticed.
   Where both these elements richly abound and
are finely cultivated in one being, we find superior-
ity indeed.  And that superiority all should, and
all may, obtain, by carefully cultivating the funda-
mental parts of these two pre-eminent principles.
For, certain it is, the Lord in His infinite wisdom
and mercy has ordered a seed of each to be planted
in every little perfect human form, that all who de-
sire it, may be both wise and good.			L.


THE first colored lawyer has been admit-
ted to practice in South Carolina.

	THE United States Government employs
over 3,000 women.


﻿THE RIGHT WAY FOR WOMEN.
			
  A thoughtful female writer has published
the following reflections:—“After toiling
all day, how refreshing to a weary man is
the peaceful quiet of home! A woman
ought to study, in everything, the comfort
of those who are passing their days shut out
from the pleasant green fields and shady
lanes, toiling where the sunbeams cannot
reach them, to cheer their sinking hearts,
in order that she may live in comfort; such
a thought should guide the actions of every
mother, wife, and sister.
    Cleanliness and a judicious expenditure of
funds are most admirable qualifications in a
wife, yet do not constitute entire happiness;
they are only parts of the ingredients em-
ployed in forming domestic happiness.
Many women never think of conversing on
any subject beyond dress and flirtations, so
the father, husband, or brother, goes out in
search of a friend with whom he can discuss
more interesting matters.
   It is a great loss to females not to be able,
on all occasions, to converse on general sub-
jects.  We are happy to state that children
of the working classes are now, in many
towns, amply provided with the means of
securing an excellent education, despite pe-
cuniary deficiency ; an education that will fit
them to hold, with credit, superior situa-
tions. They are taught to think and to rea-
son upon all learned subjects as children, so
that in the days of maturity they may enjoy
and add to the enjoyment of an intelligent
circle of friends.”


﻿THE CORONADO ISLANDS.

	One of the first sights that attracts the
stranger on his arrival here, and one that
the old residents of San Diego never tire
looking at, is the group of islands known as
the Coronados.  In plain view from every
portion of the city, with nothing beyond
them but the waters of the immense Pacific,
they form an attractive and graceful con-
trast to the high hills south and east and the
mesa land north of the town. They are al-
ways beautiful, but are especially so when
the atmosphere is intensely clear, as it was
yesterday.  The first day of May was, even
for a San Diego day, unusually lovely.  Its
pleasant breezes made every one feel cheer-
ful, and drew many into the open air away
from their occupations to sit and gaze with
delight on the islands, which seemed, al-
though miles away, to be within a hundred
yards of the beach, and looked as if nothing
intervened between them and the shore but
a narrow strip of blue water.  But a still
more attractive phase under which the
group of islands can be seen, is when the
atmosphere causes them to change their ap-
pearance, producing the most beautiful mir-
ages imaginable. On Tuesday an opportu-
nity was afforded to observe these atmos-
pheric effects. The rapid changes in the
appearance of the Coronados as seen from
the city on this day were wonderful; and
the shapes were as puzzling and the opin-
ions of observers as conflicting as were those
of Polonius, who saw a camel, weasel and
whale in the same cloud. These curious
mirages are not rare, but may be seen fre-
quently.  Another peculiarity connected
with these islands is that at times they are
not visible from the city, although with the
exception of a slight and almost undiscerni-
ble haze, the day may be perfectly clear,
with not a single cloud in the sky.—“San
Diego Union.”


WOMANS- EXPONENT.


﻿WHEN'Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker was
pleading before the Willimantic Selectmen
for the admission  of women as voters, she
stated that she believed one of the gentle-
men before her was in sympathy with the
movement (referring to Mr. Lincoln, the
town clerk). Mr. Lincoln asked her for the
reasons for believing so, and she said she
could see it in the twinkle of his eye.  "I
beg your pardon,” said Mr. Lincoln, “but
that eye is a glass eye.”
  MISS CUSHMAN gave an evening’s read-
ing in Chicago, some time ago, for which
she was paid $1,500—very generous remu-
neration for an hour’s labor.  A correspond-
ent of the  "Christian Union” says that “in
spite of the mouthings and mannerisms that
are not good because they are not nat-
ural, it was better than any sermon on do-
mestic bickering to hear her read ‘ Betsey
and I are Out.’ ” He then proceeds to ask
how the church can hope to make a good
fight against the theatre when it has failed
to find a fitting place for this kind of talent,
which is so powerful when used in the
cause of truth and purity.


H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies 
to purchase.
CAMPBELL & PATTERSON.
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
LADIES!
	Go to Taylor & Cutler's for Dress Goods, No-
tions, etc. Also the Cheapest Store for Family Gro-
ceries in town. Call and see.
WEED SEWING MACHINES.
			Stitch Alike on Both Sides.
The Lightest Running
		SHUTTLE MACHINE 
						In the World. 
	Sews fine and Coarse. No Springs nor Cogs. No
taking apart to Oil or Clean it.
	Send for Circular to 97 Kimball Block, Salt Lake
City. 					IRA PFOUTZ, Ag't.
FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.
DR. W. H. GROVES,
					DENTIST,
   Office Second South Street, Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
 		 Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
LADIES' BAZAR.
			MRS. WILKINSON,
FASHIONABE MILLINER AND DRESSMAKER.
	Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Millinery, Straw
Goods, and all kinds of fancy and Staple Dry Goods.
	Sole agent for the Territory for M'me Demorest's
reliable paper patterns. Orders from the country so-
licited; patterns sent by mail. Removed to the new
Establishment, 1st South St., next door west of Z. C. 
M. I. Wholesale Dry Goods Department.

			JOHNSON'S


	HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES!


Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-
	ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.


	BONESET PILLS.  Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rose hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pilis. Price 25 cents.


EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents. 



	CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.



	ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills. Price 50 cents. 



	These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at




	ZION’S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,



Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory. 



If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them.

	Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers,

	AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.
From the Laboratory of
						J.E. JOHNSON,
						  St. George, Utah.



		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		A UTAH LADIES' JOURNAL. 

	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.

  They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them ; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen, and
countrywomen in reply.

  Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves ?    "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!"

  For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has boen
commenced.

  The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief.and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.

   It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.

   Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best 
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but 
little is known of the self-sacrificing .labors of these 
Societies.  In WOMAN'S EXPONENT'S a department ;
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other 
matters of interest connected with their workings; 
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the 
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which.will receive 
due attention.

  Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she,has leisure from
her numerous duties.

  WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
   The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in 
Utah.

   TERMS, Strictly in Advance:	’		r
1 Copy one year,	$200 ; . 	1 Copy six months,    $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months,  9.00

  No subscription received for less than six months. 
  It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents 
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a 
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting 
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

   Address all communications and subscriptions, 
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City, 
Utah.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

VOL. I. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1872.		NO. 3.


﻿NEWS AND VIEWS.
		    
  DIED at Geneva—Indirect Damages.
  SENSATIONAL preaching continues fashion-
able and attractive.
  THE Hyers sisters led the colored chorus
in the Boston Jubilee.
  MORAL Massachusetts has an average of
11,000 prisoners always on hand.
  LONDON is said to have 2,000 “Christian
Jews.” They keep store open on Sundays.
  THE “Big Jamboree” is the Washington
style of speaking of the Boston Jubilee. Is
Washington jealous?
  CONVICTS in Detroit write dime novels,
which is little better business than they
were engaged in before.
  POLITICAL corruption is being exposed to
the scorching light of critical exposure, which
reveals a large amount of previously con-
cealed rotteness.
  GEORGE SAND is now at work upon a
“Life of Christ.” Novel readers and lovers
of romance will probably learn something
new of the Scriptures now.
  THE BAND of the British Grenadier
Guards warmly welcomed to Boston on the
anniversary of the battle of Bunker Hill, is
one of the events of the times too notable to
be overlooked.
  IN LONDON alone, since last August, there
has been nearly 10,000 deaths by small-pox.
Nor has that dreadful disease been confined
to England and the United States, but has
ravaged Europe as well. Job’s complaint is
becoming widely known.
  A CHANGE in-the Utah Federal officials,
it is intimated, is likely to be made after
the November elections. Blessings of such
magnitude should be carefully announced
in advance to prepare the public for receiv-
ing them with a moderate degree of enthu-
siasm.
  A FEW prominent Free Traders reject Dr.
Greeley, because of his protection views,
and having hammered together a platform
of the old materials have set up candidates
thereon, the principal difficulty about the
matter being that the candidates decline to
accept.
  ONE HALF of the servant girls in the city of
Philadelphia are said to be drunkards. If
true, give them a chance to become honest
wives and keepers of their own houses, in-
stead of having to keep irregular hours wait-
ing on fashionable mistresses, and that evil,
like many others, may disappear.
  ON THE 9th inst. the National Democratic
Convention will meet in Baltimore, and the
indications are strong that it will make no
nominations, but endorse those made at
Cincinnati. In this matter the Democratic
leaders have been led by the rank and file of
the party which is evidently tired of follow-
ing the same men to defeat through years
coming on years.
  WHAT a terrible commentary is that on
the manner in which justice is administered
in New York, conveyed in the following
from a paper published in that city? “Three
hundred and fifty murders last year, and but
one man suffering the extreme penalty of

the law. He, poor Jack Reynolds, half-
witted, without money or friends, was hung
as an awful example!”
  A NEW fire-arm of terribly destructive
power, and called the “Magazine rifle,” is
announced as the latest addition to life-
destroying inventions. Invented by Captain
Meigs, of Lowell, Massachusetts, weighing
only half a pound more than the regular
Springfield rifle, it is capable of discharging
fifty bullets in fifty seconds; and promises to
be as effective in reducing the population as
railroad accidents or steamboat explosions.
  ANOTHER PRESIDENTIAL ticket, and no-
body injured! Groesbeck, of Ohio, and
Olmsted, of New York, were nominated by
a small band of Free-Traders on the 21st ult.
The latter declined the honor immediately;
the former, with an evident hankering after
the post of standard-bearer, intimated that
the Democratic convention at Baltimore
must speak before he would listen. The
nominating body was. respectable but not
strong enough.	
  TWO TERRIBLE disasters have occurred on
this continent since the last issue of the
EXPONENT. A steamboat explosion on the
Mississippi river hurled thirty-five human
beings into eternity; and a railroad accident
in Canada bruised, battered and butchered
sixty-five more, of whom over thirty died,
most of them in horrible agony. A weak
boiler, or a defective rail, and nobody to
blame, is the usual verdict; while death in
horrid form mocks at the advances of science
as recklessness disregards or defies them.
  PUBLISHED dispatches last week accused
Mrs. Emily Pitts Stevens of drawing a pistol
on a gentleman at an anti-Woman’s Suffrage
meeting in San Francisco; and subsequently
stated that she had published a card deny-
ing the allegation. While regretting that
the agitation and discussion of so important
a subject is not conducted with less acrimo-
ny and more courteous good feeling on both
sides, we await a more lengthened statement
of the affair in the next number of the
“Pioneer,” of which Mrs. Stevens is editor,
before accepting as correct that which has
been telegraphed concerning it.
  TO TEMPT a woman to evil and then seek
a divorce because she has fallen before the
temptation, has been the cowardly and
criminal course pursued by more husbands
than court records have shown. But a late
decision on the matter will mar its future
efficacy. A suit for divorce was recently
tried in London before Lord Penzance, when
the woman showed that she had been led
into evil through the plots of an agent of
her husband. Lord Penzance ruled that the
husband was responsible for the acts of his
agent, and refused the divorce. A wise and
upright Judge!
  TENNIE C. CLAFLIN has gained the
coveted position, and is now a full-blown
Colonel. She was elected to that position by
a colored regiment of New York. There
have been women wno have led armed men
to conflict and victory, as did Boadicea the
ancient Britons and Joan of Arc the dis-
pirited French; but they were moved to ac-
tion by other impulses than a morbid passion
for notoriety. Tennie C. Claflin is a sad
spectacle of a talented woman setting mod-

esty, purity of feeling, and womanly grace
at defiance, that she may secure the ap-
plause of the reckless and the indorsement
of those who set proper restrictions at defi-
ance.
  THE practical character of the present ago
is fatal to many ancient and venerable theo-
ries. Rev. James R. Dunne, of Boston, who
has been traveling in Palestine announces
that the Dead Sea is not the sad, sluggish
sheet of water it has been represented. Its
waters though heavy and bitter are clear
and rippling, its wavelets sparkle on the
beach, and its “shores are green with shrub-
bery and bright with flowers.” So too the
idea that Great Salt Lake is untenanted with
life is proved a fallacious illusion. A mem-
ber of Professor Hayden’s scientific explor-
ing expedition announces that it teems with
animal life.  The Dead Sea of the cast, and
its counterpart in the west, it appears, have
both been misrepresented.
  THE JESUITS have been deprived of all
rights of citizenship in Prussia by recent
statutory enactment. There is a bitter strag-
gle going on in Germany between church
and state, the government proving itself the
stronger by the passage of this statute.
Bismarck is determined that no ecclesiasti-
cal authority shall successfully lift itself
against the secular government, and in this
he is sustained by the “Old Catholic” party
which does not accept the dogma of infalli-
bility. He sees that the Jesuits are insinu-
ating and aggressive, yet he gives them
strength by the very act which deprives
them of citizenship; for when men are thus
punished for simply belonging to a religious
order, sympathy is evoked in their behalf
and their logic becomes irresistable when
their opponents thus admit their inability
to meet it by counter-argument.
  THE following communication was re-
ceived and read at the National Republican
Convention on June 6th, as appears by the
minutes of that day’s proceedings: No. 333
Walnut street, 6th month, 5th, 1872.—Dear
Friend: I am assured that over sixty of the
ablest women of the land are ready to take
the field for the Republican party If the Con-
vention now in session will adopt some plank
that will even allow them this opportunity
as honest, serious workers for human rights.
Below you will find a copy of the plank,
which, if adopted; will be the occasion of an
enthusiasm only equalled by that of 1856 for
Fremont.		Very respectfully,
					E. M. DAVIS.
To Robert Purvis, Delegate to the Republi-
  can Convention.
  Headquarters Woman’s Suffrage Dele-
gates, No. 333 Walnut street, Philadelphia,
June 5th, 1872.—To the National Republi-
can Convention—Gentlemen: In behalf of
the women of this nation, one-half the entire
people, I ask you to put a plank in your
platform that shall assert the duty of the
National Government to protect women citi-
zens in the exercise of their right to vote,
and thereby make it possible for women
possessed of true self-respect to advocate the
claims of the Republican party to the suf-
frages of the people.
  Respectfully,   	SUSAN B. ANTOHNY.
President National Woman’s Suffrage Asso-'
clation.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE FEMALE RELIEF SOCIETY.
				
			WHAT IS IT?
				
	It is an institution formed to bless
	The poor, the widow, and the fatherless;
	To clothe the naked and the hungry feed,
	And, in the holy paths of virtue, lead;

	To seek where anguish, grief and sorrow are,
	And light the torch of hope eternal, there;
	To prove the strength of consolation’s art.
	By breathing comfort to the mourning heart;

	To chase the clouds that shade the aspect where
	Had mis’ry dwells, and wake up pleasure there;
	With open heart t’ extend the friendly hand;
	To hail the stranger from a distant land;

	To stamp a with’ring impress on each move
	That virtue’s noble self would disapprove;
	To put the tattler’s coinage, scandal, down,
	And make corruption feel its scathing frown;

	To give instruction where instruction’s voice
	Will guide the feet and make the soul rejoice;
	To turn the wayward from their recklessness,
	And aid them in the path of happiness.

	- It is an order fitted and designed
	To cultivate and elevate the mind;
	To seek the needy in their lone abode,
	Supply their wants, and lead them up to God.
										E.R.S.


F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
			
  THE Female Relief Society of the Six-
teenth Ward of this city, held its annual
meeting on June 15th, in the Ward school
house; and the following summary of the
minutes will be found interesting:
  After singing the second hymn, Mrs. Z.
D.  YOUNG made remarks: “Obedience is
better than sacrifice, and to hearken than
the fat of rams.” I feel my inability to in-
struct; yet, we are all dependant on one
Father. Although, according to the flesh,
we have different parents, brothers and
sisters, kindred ties and associations, by
which we are linked together here; yet, in
the grand chain of the Eternities we all be-
long to one family, and all look to the same
great God for aid and comfort. If there ever
was a time when we should be faithful,
watchful, and careful, it is now. Mothers,
look after your daughters; teach them to be
modest, industrious, and virtuous; to honor,
with all the other principles pertaining to
the Priesthood of God, the law of celestial
marriage, which is for the redemption and
salvation of many. I pray God to bless you,
my sisters, both young and aged; and help
us all to keep the faith.
   ELDER JOSEPH F. SMITH, being present
by invitation, was requested to address the
meeting. A very brief synopsis of his re-
marks is contained in the following: I may
say,  my sisters, I hardly expected to be
here I look upon these Societies and their
work as things of great importance; and some-
times wonder why so long a time elapsed after
the break-up at Nauvoo, before a reorganiza-
tion was made. I look at it as being just as
essential as any other organization of the
Priesthood. Upon mothers in Israel devolve
great responsibilities. To them belongs the
care of their children; to nourish, feed, dress
and instruct; and in a great measure to edu-
cate. Upon you, mothers, depend the train-
ing of the future generation. You form their
minds, thoughts, aspirations. I know by
experience you can destroy or make. You
can tell what a mother is when you see her
children at play. In Cache valley, there was
a number of little girls playing keeping-
house and making mud-butter. One was
playing mother and dictating. When there
was a nice, large, roll of butter made, she
laid it on one side, and said, “Now, that is
to go to the Tithing Office, it is better than
the rest.” That told a great story for the
little girl's mother. The child showed her
teaching. If children treat each other kindly

and courteously, it is the spirit that is in-
stilled into their hearts by their mothers at
home. We often hear children speak in a
cross, commanding way. What does that
argue? That it is the way the mother does.
The father is away, the mother at home,
where she may teach her children to be
mild and loving, honest, gentle and good.
Mothers have a better chance to lead their
children in the proper way than the fathers.
They have opportunities afforded for cutiva-
ting the blessings of faith. I love to hear a
woman pray. They can approach nearer to
the Lord than men can, as a general thing;
or my mother did. I could not do as my
mother could. These societies are not only
calculated for a means of relieving the wants
of the poor, comforting the afflicted etc., but
to correct and improve yourselves and each
other.
  Much more valuable instruction was given
by Elder Smith and others, followed by sing-
ing and prayer after which the meeting ad-
journed.
  The Society financially is in a sound con-
dition, as we note by the financial report
presented by the Secretary, Presendia L.
Kimball. It shows that during the four
years $727.65 was received in cash, mer-
chandise and produce, of which $201.86 was
disbursed, leaving $527.79 in the treasury
at date of report. Among the disbursements
for the fiscal year ending June 15th, 1872,
was one item of $50 donated to assist the
poor to immigrate; and other items for
clothing bestowed upon those who needed
it.
  We are indebted to Mrs. Mary A. Maughan,
of Logan, Cache county, for the following
interesting report:
  “The anniversary meeting of the Female
Relief Society was held in the Logan Hall
May 18th, Mrs. M. A. Maughan, President
of the Society, presiding. There was a good
attendance of the members, but in conse-
quence of sickness in the family of the Secre-
tary, the financial report was not read.
  Spirited and interesting remarks were
made by Bishop W. B. Preston, and Elder
Moses Thatcher on the duties of mothers in
rearing and educating their sons to become
good and wise men in the Kingdom of God;
and the daughters to acquire the accomplish-
ments necessary to enable them to become
useful as helpers in the great work which is
before us; and instructing them how to be-
come ornaments in society. They also spoke
in commendation of the great good that laid
been accomplished by the F. R. Society of
this place; and felt to encourage and bless
us in our efforts to relieve the needy.
  The meeting was then adjourned until
the monthly meeting of the Society, which
was held on the first Monday in June, when
the financial report was presented, showing
that since the organization of the Society
$1,453.02 had been gathered by donations,
profits on labor, etc., of which a great
amount had been disbursed to the poor; and
for other charitable purposes, in helping to
sustain the Kingdom; leaving a balance in
the Treasury. It is the purpose of the So-
ciety as fast as possible to make the adorn-
ment of their persons the workmanship of
their own hands.
   I heartily congratulate you on the able
manner in which your little paper is
gotten up, wish you great success, and can
assure you that your paper, will be warmly
welcomed and highly appreciated by the
ladies of Logan.”
  Accompanying the report nnsa handsome
subscription list.
				
MRS. M. A. BOICE and Mrs. Emily Hep-

worth, President and Secretary of the F. R.
Society at Oxford, Cache county, kindly
forward a report of their little Society,
which shows that although few in numbers,
they take an active interest in the promo-
tion of good, relieving the wants of the des-
titute among them; helping to immigrate
the poor from other countries, to send mis-
sionaries abroad to preach the gospel, to
build railroads, etc. A meeting was held
on June 16th, at which Bishop Lake and
others made appropriate and interesting, re-
marks.
   They also send congratulations on the
favorable debut of the EXPONENT.


﻿A SENSIBLE WOMAN.
			
  A New England girl twenty-seven years
of age, who was disappointed in a love affair
in early life, and had afterwards steadily re-
fused the least attention from any man, sur-
prised her friends a short time ago by get-
ting married.
  Being an only child at the death of her
parents, which took place some five years
ago, she was left sole inheritor and manager
of a handsome fortune. She asked no aid
from anyone, but with two old and trusty
servants, a gardener and housekeeper, she
lived on quietly in her own home, and in a
highly creditable manner conducted her own
affairs. Soon after entering upon this new
stage of life, she loaned quite a large sum of
money to a young merchant, then almost in-
solvent.  He struggled bravely to redeem
his pledges, and very much care-worn, he
at last became almost discouraged and would
have yielded to bankruptcy, he says, had it
not been for his frequent visits to his fair
creditor and the cheering advice she always
gave him. At last, after having vainly
striven for more than four years to rise
above his misfortunes, he relinquished all
hope. The first one he called upon, to make
this anounccment, was his lady creditor.
Old Sharkey, the gardener, witnessed their
interview; for she never allowed both her
servants to withdraw when a gentleman
was present.
   She still tried to encourage the merchant
as before, but could not succeed this time;
he was too far gone. She offered him more
money, which he refused to take; also . to
forgive the debt and the interest then due on
it, which was likewise manfully declined, in
part, with promises for some future .time
when all would be refunded.
  After he had taken his leave of the lady,
she said to the gardener, “Call him back,’
Sharkey, I’ve concluded to .become his
wife.”
  “His wife!” repeated Sharkey, “why, he
has never said anything of the kind . to
you!”‘		-	’
   “I know it,” replied the lady, “and-that's
the reason I like him. He looks love at me
all the time, but never ventures to speak;
and he has proved himself honest, grateful
and noble. Call him back, Sharkey, and
then go and ask the parson to step over here
a few minutes.”
  Sharkey obeyed, the parson came, and
the wedding took place. The merchant’s
debts are all paid up, and he and his heroic
bride live very happily in their peaceful
and beautiful home.
   Women are not all fools, are they?


﻿A San Francisco journal, states that more
than half that city is given up to demoraliz-
ing practices, more ruinous to the souls and
bodies of the unfortunate than is any system
of savagery among the wild men of the
desert.  We do not dispute the sad state-
ment.  But what an atmosphere to live in!


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿LET ME THINK THUS.
				
Let me not think that the world is all selfishness,
  Care’ess and grim and of dark, sombre hue;
Let me believe there are hearts still affectionate,
  Still undeceiving, unsordid and true.
Though often death’s undisputed authority,
  Claims the most gifted, the freest from guile,
Yet their dear spirits still make earth their dwelling
	place:
  Let me think thus, and he happy the while.
Let me not think that our God, unremittingly,
  Leads us poor mortals in ignorance here,
Thirsting for knowledge, expecting and wondering:
  One day with light He'll envelope our sphere.
No more dark shadows of doubt and disparagement;
   All will be sunshine, Jehovah’s glad smile;
Freely we’ll drink at the Fount of Intelligence:
  Let me think thus, and be happy the while
									L L


﻿HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
			
  TO COLOR SLATE COLOR.—Boil yellow
oak bark in an iron kettle till the strength is
extracted. Take out the bark, then add a
very little copperas, and you have a pretty
color with no expense.
  SCALLOPED CHICKEN. — Mince chicken
with lean ham and a little pepper mixed, in
scallop shells or a flat dish, add two large
spoonfuls of cream, cover with crumbs, set
before the fire to brown, with a little butter
on top.
   APPLE FLOAT. —One pint of stewed ap-
ples ;  when cold, sweeten and flavor to
taste. Just as you want to send to table,
add the beaten whites of four eggs, lightly
stirred into it.  With cream this makes a
nice dessert.
   BATH, CAKES.—Mix well together a quar-
ter of a pound of butter, half a pound of flour,
two large eggs, and a tablespoonful of yeast;
set the mixture before the fire to rise, and
when this has been effected, add two ounces
of finely powdered sugar, and half an ounce
of carraways. Roll the paste out into little
cakes; bake them on tins.
   DOLPETTES OF COLD MEAT.—Prepare the
meat as for a hash—or some hashed meat
that has become cold will answer the pur-
pose—add to it some bread-crumbs, enough
to stiffen the consistency, mix it together
with the yolk of eggs, shape it into small
balls, dip them into egg, roll them in bread-
crumbs and grated cheese, and fry them
brown. Glaze them, or serve them with
tomato sauce.
   THE FOLLOWING dressing for salad is very
much liked by some, but does not suit the
taste of others. It is also said to be excel-
lent over sliced tomatoes in the Summer.
Take the yolk of one fresh egg and mix with
it two tablespoonfuls of olive oil very slowly;
add one and one-half spoonfuls of mustard,
three spoonfuls of salt, a little pepper, and
last of all two spoonfuls of vinegar. Beat
the white of the egg to a stiff froth and
lightly stir in.
   DUCHESSES.—-Take half a dozen potatoes,
boil them, pass them through a sieve, and
work into them in a bowl one gill of cream
and the yolks of three eggs; add pepper, salt,
and nutmeg to taste, and some parsley chop-
ped fine. When they are well mixed and
smooth, take them up by tablespoonfuls, roll
each in a ball, flatten it, and flour it slightly;
lay them all in a sauce pan with plenty of
butter melted, and cook them slowly ; turn
them over when one side is done, and serve
hot as soon as both sides are colored.
  OYSTER PIE.—Cover a.well-buttered deep
plate or tin—a soup plate answers perfectly
—with puff paste ; lay an extra layer around
the edge of the plate, and bake it very
nearly enough. That done, fill the pie with
oysters, seasoning with nutmeg, pepper, salt
[next column]
and butter; dust in a little flour amongst
them, and cover all with a thin puff paste.
Bake quickly ; when the top crust is done
the oysters will be done also. If to be  eaten
cold, let it cool untouched, in the plate or
pan. It is quite as good in this way as hot,
and is excellent for picnics or for traveling.
  MISS BEECHER has remarked that there
is nothing which so distinctly marks the
difference between weak and strong minds
as whether they control circumstances or
circumstances control them. And Mrs.
Abell says that with many well meaning
women, eating, drinking, clothing, cleanli-
ness and order of a household constitute the
sum total of all life ; while the moral, the
social and intellectual interests are wholly
neglected. But, with assistance suitable to
the labor, a proper improvement of time
and wise arrangement of plans, these best
and most exalted duties need not be slight-
ed, and will not unless an undue importance
is attached to the grosser and lower pleas-
ures of the appetite and personal adornment.
There are some so rigid in their adherence
to a system that they never allow anything
to interfere with it. Even the sacred claims
of friendship and hospitality must be sacri-
ficed to "washing on Monday ;" and a cold
and frigid reception is often given to a friend
whose visit might interfere with the iron-
ing on the succeeding day.
  But a true, right-hearted woman will not
take upon her one or two virtues only, but
will in kindness embrace them all, reflecting
always that “ it is not all of life to live.”


﻿WHY I DO NOT CALL.
			
Dear “Exponent:”
   Having a little explanation to make to a
couple of my friends, and thinking it might
prove rather a good hint to some others, I
would like to offer the same through your
columns, if not objectionable ; and will en-
deavor to be very brief and explicit.
  A short time ago, Miss Alice---(a friend
who was and is very dear to me) and myself
were walking along the street together and
chatting in a lively manner, when suddenly
Alice stopped short and said in a low tone,
“Hush, let’s walk more slowly!”
  “ Why ?” I asked, and she answered,
“ Because there’s Mrs. K. crossing the street
and I do not wish to meet her, for I don’t
like her, and she always makes so much of
me.”
   We walked slowly, but Mrs. K. saw Alice
and waited at the corner to speak to her. I
was a little surprised at Alice’s remark, for
I had got it into my head that she was so
good and charitable that she never allowed
herself to dislike anyone. I was still more
surprised presently.  As we came up Mrs.
K. held out her hand with a smile ; Alice
smiled back again, warmly clasped the prof-
fered hand, and said, as if delighted at the
meeting, “ How do you do ? I haven’t seen
you for such a long time !”
    “ I know it,” said Mrs. K. “ Why don’t
you come over and see me?”
   Alice replied, “Simply because I can’t
find time to go anywhere; but you must
come and see me, won’t you ? Do come !”
   Mrs. K. said she would, and we passed on.
  “That’s the way she talks to folks she
don’t like !” I said to myself, “That’s just
the way she talks to me!”
  Yes, when she left me, it was with an af-
fectionate and persuasive injucntion that I
should come very soon to see her. She al-
ways did so.
   The more I reflected on it the more it
seemed to me that if. my dear, loving little 
[end of column]
friend could speak as she did about Mrs. K.,
and then meet her so cordially, and say such
pleasant things to her, she might do the
same by me. I don’t know but she means
it all when she says “come and see me ! now
do !” in such emphatic tones; but I’m afraid
she does not; so I have not been to see her
lately.  She has been anxious to know why.
I have kept it to myself till now, not telling
even my mother; but if Alice reads this she
will be in doubt no longer as to why I did’nt
call.
  The other part.of my explanation is for 
the benefit of Mrs. R. (an elderly lady) in
particular; and to all who may need a like
hint in general. Mrs. R. is such a good-na-
tured, affable, kind-hearted woman, that it
always did me good to call on her. All for-
mality was laid aside, and I could be so much
at home in her house, and always felt that I
was welcome there ; for her words were kind
and motherly, just such as put one at ease,
because they carry with them the assurance
that the speaker means what she says.
  I went there one day, not many minutes
before dinner time, feeling very weary and
faint, having taken a long walk, and having
still a longer one to take. Mrs. R. was par-
ticularly glad to see me and wanted to know
why I had delayed calling so long. I sat
down, threw my hat on to the center table,
and took up the album.
   “O ! ma, here comes mother N.,” called
out Mrs. R.’s little daughter.
  “Well I won’t have any mother N. here
to-day ! I’ve had enough of her lately, and
can’t put up with her any more !” said Mrs.
R. with much earnestness, and I could see
she meant what she said, or thought I could,
though I had never before seen her so
moved.
  Mother N. appeared at the door. “How
do you do, mother N. ? Sit down, dinner
will soon be ready ; how tired you look !”
   How surprised I was ! Mrs. R. had re-
gained her usual cordial manner and pleas-
ant tone, and greeted mother N. the same as
she had greeted me.	
   I turned the leaves of the album over in a
hurry, and arose with hat in hand just as
dinner was announced.
  “You’re not going?”
  “ Yes, I must !”
  “ Oh, not before dinner; it’s all ready.”
  “ But I must hurry; mother will won-
der—”
  “You ! O, now!”
  “ Good bye.” And I haven’t called on
Mrs. R. since, though I often meet her and
she professes to feel real bad because I do
not come and see her. Of course as  can-
not tell whether she means it or not, I do
not like to be suspicious, yet have no wish
to be so credulous as to be silly.
							FRANK.
   The explanation seems to be plain enough
Miss Alice and Mrs. R. will doubtless under-
stand it.—[ED. EXPONENT.


It has been found that the clothes fitted
to  new recruits in the English army soon
become too small across the chest, owing, it
is stated, to the increased development given
by gymnastic and military exercises. It is
very probable that the same result is pro-
duced upon fashionable .ladies’ brains, by
the wonderful exercises they undergo upon
desultory subjects. Many of their hats are
unbecomingly small.


﻿Professor Goltz, of Konigsberg, in his ex-
periments upon the nervous centre of frogs,
finds that if you take out the brain, the
creature will croak as if pleased. Frogs
must be as easily pleased as some men.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
___________________________________________
	               	L. L. GREENE, Editor.
___________________________________________

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City. 
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers Woman's Exponent, 
									Salt Lake City, Utah. 
________________________________________________________________

			SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 1, 1872.


﻿SPLINTERS.
	It is reported that Russia contemplates
raising a new loan of £10,000,000......A two
story hotel, with a French roof, to accommo-
date two hundred guests, is projected at the
summit of Mount Washington......Ole Bull
thinks that by proper culture, Leaven-
worth will produce a violinist second to none,
in the person of Miss Ella Frew....A stone
was recently quarried on Lake Superior that
is 110 feet long and 8 1/2 feet thick......Fields
of corn, potatoes and other farm produce,
and the buds on fruit trees, were completely
destroyed in Los Angeles and neighboring
vicinity, by April frosts......Many of the
prizes in the Boston high school are taken
by girls...The Marble Hill (Mo.) “True
Democrat,” has for its motto, “A Red-hot
Democratic Family Newspaper.”.....The num-
ber of Republicans in the country is esti-
mated in round figures at 3,300,000; of Dem-
ocrats 3,000,000......In the iron furnace of
York, Pennsylvania, a short time since, the
flywheel, while in motion, burst asunder and
flew in all directions, killing three men and
leaving the mill in ruins......Alphonzo Ad-
hemer predicts another deluge, A. D. 7253.
......The Nevada county, (Cal.) Angora goat
company now have over 500 goats of that
breed......The Prussian Minister of War has
issued a decree for the organization of a
military corps of aeronauts......The commer-
cial writers say that 1872 will be distin-
guished for its immense trade......Eddy-'
ville, Ky., with a population of eight hun-
dred, had, lately, one hundred cases of
measels......A grandson of Daniel O’Connell,
is lecturing in Pennsylvania on the “War-
riors and Bards of Ireland”......The eight
hour movement in San Francisco is said to
be assuming business-like and solid propor-
tions......A tower, 100 feet high, is to be
erected and surmounted with a statue of
Miles Standish, at Duxbury, Mass......In
Alabama the circulation of the New York
“Tribune” is said to have increased fifty
per cent. since the nomination of Greeley.
......The San Francisco “Pioneer,” of June
13th, contains the platform of the Equal
Rights party......The Scandinavian colony,
another Union Pacific achievement which
was started last year, is said to be already a
success......There are ten female superin-
tendents in Kansas......One of the women
in the house of the Good Shepherd, St.
Louis, is a carpenter and shoemaker......
Clark, the balloonist, who fell from a balloon
at Memphis, died from the effects, less than
a week afterward......Prince Bismcrck is go-
ing to the Isle of Wight......The Emperor
William, of Germany, is said to be gradually
sinking into the grave.....The Bairds, who
stand at the head of the iron masters in
Scotland, make as clear profit annually $2,-
500,000......Nilsson sketches landscapes
nicely......Over ten million pairs of shoes
were manufactured in Lynn, Massachusetts,
last year......Myriads of locusts are appear-
ing in the western portion of North Caro-
lina......Pope Pius IX is eighty years old......
The Gould and Curry shaft, in Nevada, has
attained a depth of 1,821 feet, the deepest
on this coast......It is estimated that the sur-
plus wheat crop for exportation, in Califor-
nia, this year, will reach 600,000 tons......
Thiers was a printer’s “devil” in 1825, and
is still bothering the editors......Hon. Chas.
Buckalew, nominated by the Democrats for
Governor of Pennsylvania, is said to be op-
posed to the nomination of Greeley at Balti-
more......Iowa farmers this year, have to
contend with wire worms, cut worms, grub
worms, army worms, chintz bugs and Hes-
sian flies......The Czar of Russia, it is re-
ported, was cool in his demeanor toward
[end of column; start of new column]
Lieut. Fred. Grant, on the occasion of the
latter’s recent visit to Moscow......The vicini-
ty of Prague, in Bohemia, has been visited
by a great flood, involving an appalling de-
struction of life and property........ A London
telegram announces that so far from the Per-
sian famine being over, it is even now worse
than ever......Kaiser William is ready to
deliver his decision on the San Juan bound-
ary question as soon as requested......Cana-
da has abolished the duty on tea and coffee,
except when imported from the United
States......Under the treaty giving Germany
control of the Luxembourg railway, that
power stipulates that it will never use the
roads for the transportation of war munitions,
except in time of peace......The boat with
which the Cambridge crew so badly beat the
Atlantas has been carefully laid away in the
Crystal Palace.....Thiers’ demeanor during
the debate on the French Army bill, greatly
irritated members of all parties in the As-
sembly. Some of the deputies charge him
openly with all the arrogance of the first
Napoleon....Religious out-door services are
to be held in Franklin Square, New York,
Sabbath afternoons. Rev. Stephen H. Tyng,
Jr., has volunteered his services......The
population of Great Britain is placed at 31,-
000,000; that of France at 37,000,000; and
that of Russia as high as 70,000,000......Prof.
Wise proposes to start from Boston, on the
Fourth of July, for a trans-Atlantic balloon
voyage......A file of the London “Times” is
said to be worth not less than £3,000......
Half the depositors in the Massachusetts sav-
ings banks are women......Red Cloud stated
his theory for the settlement of the Indian
question in a very few words, in Cooper In-
stitute. He said, “I can protect the western
country myself!” (Applause, and war-
whoops!)


THE "ENSLAVED" WOMEN OF UTAH.
				______

	Much lachrymose and silly sentimentality
has been uttered and published relative to the
"enslaved" condition of the women of Utah. It
dates back to before the time that Buchanan
sent an army and a Governor here to inflict
punishment for the distruction of court records
that are still intact, and to free the "oppressed
women" who were held in "servile bondage"
by their "male-tyrants." That Governor came
and found the records untouched. Issued
his proclamation offering protection to the
"enslaved women" of the Territory, yet they
neglected to avail themselves of his aid, though
it had a strong military force to give it effect.-
Years passed, and still the cry was raised that
these poor women were trammeled and held in
bonds; and the necessity of extending the elec-
tive franchise to them above all the sisterhood
of the United States was loudly urged. Pos-
sessed of that weapon with which to fight their
oppressors at the polls, it was held that a won-
derful revolution would be speedily manifested
in Utah; for were not the women disgusted with
their condition, desirous of fleeing from their
husbands, fathers and brothers, and eager to 
adopt the fashionable follies, vices, and wicked-
bess wich "adorn" the civilization of the 
century!
	The right of suffrage because theirs, not 
through the efforts of these purely philanthropic
souls who were so eager for their emancipation,
but by the act of the representatives of the "ty-
rants," in legislative body assembled; and still
the ardent natures of those zealous individuals
who were so anxious to "befriend" the women
of Utah were not satisfied. They became as
anxious to have deprived of the elective
franchise as they previously had been that it 
might be bestowed upon us. As the gubernatorial
proclamation referred to had been neglected by
the women to whom it was addressed, so their
votes were cast with and for the men whom in
long years of trial they had proved and found
worthy. And when in February 1870, they
met in mass conventions all over the Territory, 
before the right to vote had been conferred upon
them, the voice of nearly twenty thousand wo-
men-wives, mothers, sisters and daughters of
these "tyrants"-was a united protest against
the calumnies of years heaped upon the men of
Utah, whom they honored and in whom they
had confidence. 
	Now the manner of attack has changed, but
the object is the same; the sentimentality is not
so lachrymose, yet the venom accompanying it
is as malignant as ever. The women of Utah
having destroyed the force of the previous
charges made, are themselves attacked, their
veracity impugned, and their honesty of purpose 
questioned. A few busy-bodies, by means dis-
reputable because dishonorable, have brought
themselves before the attention of the country
as representing the women of this Territory, 
and have published statements which will not 
bear the scrutiny of investigation. Their prin-
ciples are repudiated by nineteen-twentieths of
the women of Utah, while their alleged facts
are exaggerations, misconceptions, and direct
mistatements. Yet when the evidence of their
disingenuousness are published, they seek to
shelter themselves veracity, and claim that they, only,
of all the women of Utah, are to be believed.
	We have lived in Utah a number of years,
have had ample opportunity of understanding 
the situation here, have participated in this 
"slavery," have exercised the franchise being
legally authorized to do so, and are better in-
formed on the views, feelings and sentiments of
our sisterhood in this Territory than those who
eagerly parade their sentimentality before the 
country. With the knowledge thus obtained
through years of experience, we denounce the 
incorrect and vindictive statements still made
concerning men, women and matters in Utah;
and regret that any woman should be engaged
in such work. If the women of Utah are "slaves"
their bonds are loving ones and dearly prized.
They are to-day in the free and unrestricted ex-
ercise of more political and social rights than
are the women of any other part of these Uni-
ted States. But they do not choose, as a body
to court folly, pander to senseless passions, en-
courage vice because it may come with smiling
visage and polished exterior; which make mankind
happy in any condition of existence, for the
tinselled covering of hollow sentimentality, and
the guidance of unstable theorists, or creatures
of romance and slaves of passion.
	Life is a solid reality, drawing its existence
from the past, having its influence on the future. 
As such we view it, and labor to exert that in-
fluence for the elevation of human-kind, ment-
ally, morally and physically.-


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿   	HOME AFFAIRS.
				______
	A GRATIFYING novelty in judicial proceed-
ings in Salt Lake County, just now, is the ses-
sion of a grand jury summoned according to law
by the Probate Court.
	WILL COUNTY School Superintendents be
kind enough to furnish for the EXPONENT re-
ports of the condition of education in their
several counties?
	THE HIGH waters have fallen throughout the
Territory, leaving abundance for irrigation; and
the prospects for the coming harvest are ex-
ceedingly cheering.   
	A COMMUNICATION from Goshen Valley was
received too late for notice in the present issue.
The same explanation applies to the report of
the Third Ward, F. R. Society of Provo, which
will appear in the next number.
	THE BERGER Family of bell-ringers, with
Sol Smith Russell, are to appear again at the
theatre this week, and will without question be
largely patronized. They are chaste and artistic
performers, and one attractive feature of their
programmes is the appearance of a highly ac-
complished cornet band of ladies.
	IN THE general Retrenchment meeting held in
this city, June 22nd, the President, Miss E. R.
Snow, recommended each Society to have a
Secretary and assistant Secretary, so that in
case of indisposition or other hinderances occur-
ring to prevent either one from attending a
meeting, the other might be there and the min-
utes be regularly kept. This rule is a good one
for Societies outside this city to adopt, as well
as for the different Ward Societies in the city.
	BY A judicial blunder, or for ulterior reasons
not given to the public, the term of the Third
District Court of Utah has been permitted to
lapse. The ad interim Judge, Strickland, ad-
journed it by telegraph, from Provo, until to-
day, instead of attending personally as the stat-
uto requires. Not a few imgaine that the Judge
could not be ignorant of a law so well known,
and that personal chagrin and malice and not
the public interest, were only consulted In the
matter.
	“INDEPENDENCE DAY” is close at hand, and
yet little is said of it. The people of Utah are
warm in their feelings of loyalty to the Consti-
tution and the country, and reverence for the
founders of this great Republic lies shrined in
their heart of hearts; but they desire to cele-
brate the anniversary of freedom as a free peo-
ple, or would prefer not to celebrate at all. By
proclamation they where prohibited from doing
so a year ago, and that proclamation, illegal
and insulting as it was, has never been an-
nulled. We presume they can observe the
day in a quiet fashion, with less outward show
yet as much genuine honor for the occasion, as
their fellow citizens in any part of the country.
	ILLUSTRATIONS of the astounding liberality
of thought evinced by many people, where
“Mormonism” is concerned, now and then crop
out. A man a few days ago stepped into the
store of Messrs. Campbell & Patterson, general
agents for the EXPONENT, and seeing copies of
this periodical on the counter lifted one and in-
quired: “Is this in favor of the Mormons or
against them?” “Rather in their favor,” was
the response; on which he threw it indignantly
down, remarking, “Then, I don’t want it.” In
justice to the stranger—for he was one—the rest
must be told. A sharp remark from one of the
firm called him to a sense of his want of polite-
ness, when he purchased a copy of the first
number, took it away with him; and soon after
returned to secure a copy of the second number,
It improved to his taste, evidently, with the
reading.
	A TERRIBLE tragedy occurred in this city
during the past week, lengthy accounts of
which appeared in the daily papers. Charles
L. Dolson, a married man, sought a divorce
from his wife, and endeavored to have Mary
Obey obtain a divorce from her husband, who
was his partner, that he might marry her.
Whatever relations existed between Dolson and
the woman have not yet been made public, hut
she had left her husband and was residing in
St. Louis, where Dolson corresponded with her.
She refused to accede to his desires, upon which
he became as abusive as he had been beforetime
endearing. Oliver C. Obey, the husband, ob-
tained a knowledge of the facts, and feelings of
violent anger between the men, who were both
gamblers, was the result. Dolson circulated a
printed card, reflecting in gross terms on Obey
and his wife. On Tuesday night last the men
met in the post office in this city, near the de-
livery windows, when Obey killed Dolson,
shooting him with five bullets from a pistol.
He was arrested, stood an examination before
Judge Clinton, and was held to bail in $2,000 to
appear for trial. It was a case of ungoverned
passion, unbridled lust, and sanguinary revenge
from begining to end; and on the part of one a
fearful termination to an unenviable life.
		 ___________________________
﻿


﻿WOMEN INVENTORS.
				____
	Why women do not invent, is a problem
an anonymous English writer has solved, to
his own satisfaction at the least. He thinks
that the cause of feminine uninventiveness 
is to be found in hereditary laws.  Women
have always been drudges.  Men have been
the explorers, the inventors, the actors of
the world from the first, while women have
simply looked on, followed and obeyed. Con-
sequently they inherit an uninventive con-
stisution, and the inertia of a thousand gen-
erations has descended in entail upon the
women of to-day. All of which is exceed-
ingly plausable, provided the fact corres-
ponds with the assumption. But is it a fact
that woman is naturally less inventive than
man?  We have no proof that she is not.
True she makes few inventions. But she
has few occasions and still fewer opportuni-
ties for making them. She does not get that
practical knowledge of machinery that comes
only from long and constant usage, which is
necessary as the first condition of making
improvements.  As she is not an artisan she
fails to get the requisite mastery of tools to
enable her to see how to put them to yet un-
known uses.  And still further, the stress
of necessity and the spur of mechanical am-
bition are not laid upon her. Scarcely one
mechanic in a hundred ever invents any-
thing. Until a hundred women are thor-
oughly trained to mechanical arts and spend
years in actual mechanical labor it is unfair
to expect one woman to invent anything.
Yet in our Patent Office there are some fifty
models of inventions made by women. In
her own familiar work of making dresses
and ordering the household, woman shows
inventiveness of a high order, which if it
had had the requisite training and field for
its exercises might have achieved brilliant
results. The hereditary theory failing
to account for the fact, the theory and as-
sumption drop together.  We have known
not a few women who have invented noble
traits and amiable qualities for men who
were intolerably stupid and vulgar, and had
their inventions return to plague them ever
after.—“Golden Age.”


A correspondent of the New York
“Tribune” predicts that central Illinois will
become the garden spot of the world. One
of them most likely.


﻿CARELESSNESS AND ITS RESULTS.
	Accounts of accidents by fire, drowning,
children being run over by teams, etc., are
becoming more and more frequent, notwith-
standing the constant efforts that are made,
and the new inventions that are being
continually brought to light, for the preven-
tion of such painful incidents.
	Now and then there seems to be an
almost supernatural force at work against
some individual, or company of individuals,
who have no chance or power to resist, and
are consequently obliged to submit to disap-
pointments, disasters and, frequently, death.
	Bnt much more common is it, that mis-
haps occur as a result of recklessness, or in-
judicious calculations, than otherwise. Nu-
merous instances are recorded of loving and
faithful mothers stepping out of their rooms
for a few minutes only, leaving their precious
little darling, or darlings, where a kettle of
scalding-hot water might be reached, or a
consuming fire be kindled, and returning to
find their little ones writhing in the agonies
of death, or already dead; or perhaps doomed
to wear out a wretched existence on earth,
rendered an object of pity to all beholders.
The sympathies of a community, the tears
of a world could be no compensation for the
loss sustained in that moment of affliction;
yet a little prudence and forethought might
have prevented the cause for sorrow.
	Broken limbs, crushed heads, and distress-
ing deaths, are too often the effects offathers
leaving their teams improperly secured,
with children in the vehicles to be run away
with.
	Children are sent generally, or permitted
to go out, to play that the house may be rid
of their noise; and not being duly cautioned
against running dangerous risks, or being
themselves forgetful and heedless, it fre-
quently occurs that they are run over in the
street, drowned, or made the victims of ac-
cidents in some other way.
	The loss of proqerty might be averted
many times were discretion observed as it
should be.
	With all the hazardous recklessness that
now abounds, is it any woner that so many
accidents are constantly occurring?


SLEEP.
	If no other reward could be anticipated,
for a good, substantial day’s work, and the
careful keeping of a clear conscience, a night
of calm, refreshing sleep is a compensation
not to be ignored by the most ambitious and
energetic.
	How is it that laborers in literature, and
in fact in nearly all the pursuits of life aside
from the farm and housework, have so for
converted their days into nights as to per-
form the greater part of their work by arti-
ficial light, and take their rest and sleep
while the sun shines?
	When Frederic the Great and one of his
literary friends conceived the idea of so far
overcoming and remodeling nature in them-
selves as to live and labor without sleep, the
absurdity of such an undertaking was clearly
illustrated by the attempt and failure they
made.  And it has been alleged by careful
demonstrators that a person in good health
will not take more sleep than nature re-
quires, and that from six to eight hours in
every twenty-four should be given to sleep
to aid the continuance of health and to pro-
mote longevity.
	Is it not very probable that one great
cause of the immature deaths in the present
age, may be attributed to a lack of indulg-
ence in this exhilarating restorative at the
proper time?


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.			22


﻿ABOUT WOMEN.
	Young ladies have now the necktie
mania.
	“Pooh ! who cares for Beecher,” says
Fanny Fern, “I used to go to school to his
sister.”
	A Burlington, Iowa, girl got show-
struck while a circus was exhibiting there,
and went off with it.
	A “woman’s rights” man, rather bashful,
and a little religious, asks his wife to “ say
grace” when they have company.
	Twenty thousand women keep body and
soul together in Switzerland by their skill
at the finer work of watch-making.
	Ida Lewis having married or otherwise
sacrificed her claims to public attention, a
Mrs. Clifford appears as her successor in the
capacity of an aquatic heroine.
	Mrs. Woodhull speaks freely of the abuse
and misrepresentations of which she had
been and is yet the victim, but says these
persecutions have but purified her.
	Mrs. Drummond, the Quaker preacher,
was asked whether the spirit ever inspired
her with the thought of getting married.
“No, my friend,” said she, “but the flesh
has.”
	Miss Kellogg is said to have a larger
repertoire than any living prima donna.
She is letter and note perfect in twenty-
five operas, in most of which she has sung
with success.
	A German woman, living in Goodhue
Co., Minnesota, yoked herself along side of a
cow this spring, and the two together hauled
a drag during the day after a seeder, which
was run by her husband with a span of
horses. 
	Mrs. Charles Kean, of London, was so de-
lighted with Kate Field’s elocution that she
besought the fair lecturer to adopt the stage.
But she does not propose to forsake the lec-
ture Field for the uncertain triumph of the
Boards quite yet.
	A medical college for the education of
women has been chartered by the New York
legislature, and two or three women of
wealth have agreed to furnish the college
with buildings, and secure its future useful-
ness by liberal funds.
	Somebody has said that life is an epigram
of which death is the point. Kate Sanborn
thinks it would be well if many of our novel-
ists would consent to starve the public for a
few years, and devote their diluted energies
to composing epigrams.
	The whole story of man’s regard for wo-
man, in countries where she is uneducated,
is told in the simple language of the-Modean
of Siberia, who, at the marriage ceremony,
places the bride on a mat, saying to the
bridegroom there, “Wolf, take thy lamb!”
	A servant girl at Pittsfield, Mass., it is
related, was so much impressed the other
night by dreaming that some one was robbing
the clothes line, that she got up and looked
out of the window, when she saw a man car-
rying off some clothes.  She was so over-
come by the singularity of the affair that she
let him go and did not tell the story till the
next day.
	Mrs. Olive Logan Sykes has come back
from the south-west, bringing with her, it
is said, the MS. of a volume which will ut-
terly demolish Stephen Pearl Andrews’ so-
cial pantarchy and Mrs. Woodhull’s conjugal
theories.  Those who have hesitated to
marry for fear that the institution would
collapse just as they had fairly invested in
it, may now take courage and apply for a
certificate.


﻿OBJECTS OF DRESS.
			      ______
	
	If women had but one object in selecting
and arranging their costumes—to make a
pleasing display, how far short of meeting
that object the fashionable ladies of to-day
would come, with their puffs and panniers,
their bends and bawbles,false hair,disfigured
forms, cramped feet, paint-spoiled complex-
ions and general bogus apppearance !
	But there are, really, two other objects in
dress, which should be held paramount to
this one, yet they are not generally so looked
upon.  The first object should be health, and
next to that convenience.   Yet these two
features are now so entirely overlooked in
ladies’ toilets, as to be trampled on and mar-
tyred without mercy ; merely for the sake
of adopting fashions that are absurd and
only serve to make their foolish votaries ap- 
pear ridiculous ; so that not one object, nei-
ther health, comfort nor true adornment, is
obtained.
	What time and means are spent for no
purpose except to make of ourselves exactly
what we do not wish to be ; poor, wretched,
unsightly invalids! If we had in view no
future, and lived only in and for the present
moment, would there not be more sanity in
our spending the little time alloted us here
in doing as much good in the world as we
can, taking measures to promote health and
happiness while we stay and to preserve life
as long as possible, than in taking the oppo-
site course as many are now doing ? And
if we look forward to another and higher
state of being than we now live in, how
shall we be prepared for it if we fritter away
our present existence in experimenting on
how the person may be arranged to carry
the most gewgaws and look the most
distorted ; working ourselves to death to
obtain all this fashionable nonsense, or
drawing the money for it from the pockets
of our fathers, brothers, or husbands, who
are sufficiently yielding to honor our whims,
while they may mourn over, our mania for
dress while being driven into bankruptcy
and despair!
	Daughters and sisters, where are your
hearts ! Wives and mothers, where are
your brains !
	Can not a consistency be arrived at and
held to in these matters, which will aid
greatly in bringing about a general reform ?
Or has the majority of womankind become
too selfish, sordid and heartless to conceive
of any higher aim than that of bringing dis-
grace upon herself, her lineage and her sex
by committing suicide by means of a slow
and miserable process!


THOUGHTS.
			       ____
FOR A BRANCH OF THE RETRENCHMENT
			ASSOCIATION.
			       ____
	Do we realize and  keep in mind, that
most of us, if not all, have formed many
good resolutions and covenanted before the
Lord to try and carry them out? What is
it to try to do a thing that the Lord has cer-
tainly commanded, and which our sense of
morality and our knowledge—though limited
—of the ways of God, teach us is pleasing in
His sight?
	To really try, trusting in the Lord for
power to accomplish His purposes concern-
ing us, is virtually to consumate the thing
designed. We may think we try—we may
say we have tried—to put away some idle
habit, some vain fancy, unwise passions, un-
due and perhaps causless jealousies, while
in reality we have merely been wishing,
and that not very strongly, that such and
such imperfections existing in our present
organizations, were overcome, or that we
had never possessed them. If a very quick-
tempered person realizing the folly of being 
easily provoked, says that she would give 
anything if she only could control her tem- 
per, and in a moment afterward flies into a
passion, on little or no provocation; and when 
cautioned against giving way to anger and 
saying unreasonable things, is silenced there- 
by, or expresses penitence; she thus shows 
her sincerity in desiring to overcome this 
natural failing. And you may be sure, if
she will not allow herself to become discour- 
aged, but continues to try, she will by and 
by reap the reward of a happy conquerer.
	But if, on the other hand, when reminded
that she must first use all her exertions to 
govern herself if she wishes to become able 
to do so with ease, she proves ungrateful for 
the interest taken in her welfare, and disre-
gards the kindly advice given, then you 
may justly suppose that the declaration con- 
cerning her temper was inconsiderately 
uttered, and that she does not really care to
overcome it or she would anxiously endea-
vor to do so.	
	These and similar rules for self-govern- 
ment are applicable to all proclivities of hu- 
man nature, as well as to the temper; and 
any propensity that flesh is heir to, may 
prove either a curse or a blessing to its pos- 
sessor, as it is governed or allowed to govern.
	To each of us is granted the inestimable 
privilege of working for and obtaining all
the blessings and rejecting the curses. But, 
in order to enjoy this privilege to the fullest
extent, we must never cease striving to
overcome, while there remains within our
beings one perceptible fault. Neither should
we take offense at kindly-offered criticisms,
which, if properly received, may prove of
much value to us, and for which we should
be grateful.
	We wish to attain to that perfection which
will fit us to dwell in the presence of our
Heavenly Parents, and to be associated
“with the noblesse of all Eternities.” It is a 
great object to achieve; and none of us will
be able to bear more than our own infirmi-
ties. We cannot overcome the least imper- 
fection for a neighbor, nor can we trust a
neighbor to do anything of the kind for us.
Yet, we can often greatly assist each other,
by gently and wisely criticising at the right
time and in the proper manner. Except in
some rare cases it is always unnecessary, and
unwise to speak of faults to any except those 
who possess them, and who alone can and 
should overcome them. And in doing this
we should be careful to, if possible, never
wound the feelings of the person we desire
to benefit.	
	When criticised, instead of seeking to ex-
culpate ourselves, let us look more closely 
to our thoughts and ways, and see if the 
hint is not really applicable; ever bearing in
mind that “it is easier to mend a fault than
to hide it.”			F.S.


In a paper read before the British Associ-
ation, Dr. Wilson argues that habitual crim-
inals do not possess such an amount of in-
tellect as to enable them to discriminate
between right and wrong, and that the
majority of them are devoid of common
sense; they are of a low type of intellectual
development, and some of them are unable
to surmount even the rudimentary difficul-
ties of education. Dr. W. states that he has
made several hundred separate measure-
ments, and all showed a cranial deficiency,
especially in the anterior lobe of the brain.
It is easy and charitable to believe the
Doctor’s logic correct.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.
			    _____
	THE four principle smelting works for
the treatment of gold and silver ores in the
United States, and outside of Colorado, are
at San Francisco, California, Reno, Nevada,
Omaha, Nebraska, and Newark, N. J.
	THE yearly revenue of the Order of Odd
Fellows in the United States is now about
$3,500,000, and the average annual outlay
for purposes of relief is $1,000,000. The re-
mainder is reserved as a fund to be called
into use whenever required. The latest of-
ficial statistics of the Order are as follows:
Number of members, 757,941; number buried,
49,019; total relief paid, $16,542,256; total
receipts, $40,234,417; amount invested and
funds on hand, $23,690,170.
	FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE is said to be a
plain, simple woman, quite destitute of ro-
mance, poetry, or sentiment—no “Evangel-
ical” in belief or habit, no “professor,” least
of all a devotee—yet when she is thinking
how she can help the sick and wounded,
how she can improve the administration of
hospitals, her face takes on an expression of
pure, spiritual beauty, her eyes kindle with
enthusiasm, she is transported out of her-
self. The soldiers in the hospitals at Scutari
adored her as an angel, were happy if they
could but touch the hem of her garment,
and sent imploring looks after her shadow.
	HENRY WARD BEECHER says : “ Work.
There is some tendency among the laboring
classes to reduce the hours of work to eight.
I like it, and I abhor it. I like it, because
it is a sign of the growing intelligence of
the working classes; and I abhor it, because
it would seem that work was hateful. I
don’t believe that common people are going
to work out their fortunes by collusion, ex-
cept by hard knocks. I don’t believe that
the majority of them will be able, at eight
hours’ work, to educate their children and
to leave their families in a better condition.
I do not wish to say anything against the
working man—I who have the blood of
blacksmiths in my veins; but I want to
praise work.”
	LARGE TELESCOPE.—There is in process
of manufacture at Cambridgeport, Massachu-
setts, for the use of the United States Naval
Observatory at Washington, the largest re-
fracting telescope in the world. The object
glass is twenty-six inches in diameter, and
the telescope when completed will cost $46,-
000. McCormick, of McCormick reaper
fame, has ordered an instrument of the same
size, to be presented by him to the Lee and
Washington University of Virginia, his
native State. The next refracting telescope
in point of size is owned by Newhall, of
Gateshead, England. The telescope so
much prized by Harvard University has an
object glass of about fifteen inches diameter,
and the one connected with the Chicago
University has a diameter of eighteen and a
half inches.
	WILL MOTHERS heed the following:	A
very distinguished Paris physician says: “I
believe that, during the twenty years I have
practiced my profession, 20,000 children
have been carried to the cemeteries, a sacri-
fice to the absurd custom of exposing their
arms. Put the bulb of a thermometer into
a baby’s mouth, and the mercury rises to
ninety degrees. Now, carry the same to its
little hand; if the arm be bare and even
cool, the mercury will sink to fifty degrees.
Of course, all the blood that flows through
these arms must fall from ten to forty de-
grees below the temperature of the heart.
Need I say, when these currents of the
blood flow back to the chest, the child’s vi-
tality must be more or less compromised?
And need I add that we ought not to be
surprised at the frequently recurring affec-
tions of the tongue, throat, or stomach?”
	HERE is how Theodore Tilton talks in
the “Golden Age” of the woman recogni-
tion plank in the Philadelphia platform :
“It is something that the women got a rec-
ognition at the Philadelphia Convention.
Of course everybody knows that the woman
plank is the thinnest bit of pasteboard imag-
inable, and means about as much as “ Very
truly Yours,” at the end of a letter; and we
never heard of a woman’s basing a suit for
breach of promise on this complimentary
appendage to an ordinary epistle. The wo-
men who see the dawn of the millennium in
the nebulous generalities of the Philadelphia
platform, must be in a desperate plight, and
like the ancient maiden we hear of, and al-
ways regarded as apocryphal, who exclaimed
out of her impatience, ‘Anything in the
shape of a husband, good Lord !’ If Mrs.
Livermore and Lucy Stone and Miss Gordon
can wax eloquent over Grant, their enthusi-
asm must be irrepressible.”
	"THERE ARE so many of us. We are
like ‘the blades of grass,' as Red Cloud says.
We cannot all be supported, depend and
cling as we may. We must look out and do
for ourselves.
	“It is now pretty generally admitted that
a woman may know something of business
—of bookkeeping, banking, and even law—
without loosing the peculiar charm and
beauty of her womanhood ; that such stud-
ies as are pursued here do not necessarily
rub the bloom from the peach of maidenly
innocence, the frost from the plum of mod-
est reserve, the gold-dust from the wing of
the feminine soul. True womanhood is not
to be essentially changed by changed pur-
suits and conditions. There is a tough vi-
tality about tender womanhood. It is a
tree, whose roots take hold on eternal life.”
	[Extract from Grace Greenwood’s address
in behalf of the Lady Graduates of the
Washington Business College, June 17,
1870.]
	THE "GOLDEN AGE" says: When the
Englishman wants money for a charitable or
religious purpose he collects together a large
number of wealthy old gentlemen, and after
getting them into a good humor by good
feeding and warming their hearts to a glow
of generosity by plenty of wine, depletes
their purses to an important extent. The
public dinner is really a gentle kind of gar-
roting. At these dinners, which are for the
most part insufferably dull, no woman is under
any circumstances admitted, though of late
years, by a daring innovation, ladies have
been admitted to the galleries to look down
and see their male friends eat, themselves
being regaled by a little wine and sand-
witches handed around. It was into one of
these solid and stupid dinner parties that
our brilliant countrywoman, Miss Kate Field,
was smuggled the other day, without being
scarcely noticed by any one present, until
after the usual heavy toasts and heavier re-
sponses about the Queen and Royal Family
and Army and Navy; then the usual senti-
ment to women was proposed and our fair
revolutionist rose with easy grace, and with
sparkling wit, with winning voice, and
twinkling eyes, won them from their first
stupor of fright; then one and another began
to snicker at her sallies; then followed one
or two hearty laughs, and finally the whole
table was in a roar. The effect of her speech
was electrical, and already some of the solid
Englishers who attend those dinners confess
that they would be more attractive were
ladies invited to partake of them, and then
to open their lips afterward.

﻿MISCELLANEOUS.
The four principle smelting works for
the treatment of gold and silver ores in the
United States, and outside of Colorado, arc
at San Francisco, California, Reno, Nevada,
Omaha, Nebraska, and Newark, N. J.
The yearly revenue of the Order of Odd
Fellows in the United States is now about
$3,500,000, and the average annual outlay
for purposes of relief is $1,000,000. The re-
mainder is reserved as a fund to be called
into use whenever required. The latest of-
ficial statistics of the Order are as follows:
Number of members, 737,9-11; number buried,
9,010; total relief paid, $10,542,236; total
receipts, $10,234,417; amount invested and
funds on hand, $23,690,170.
Florence Nightingale is said to be a
plain, simple woman, quite destitute of ro-
mance, poetry, or sentiment—no “Evangel-
ical” in belief or habit, no “professor,” least
of all a devotee—yet when she is thinking
how she can help the sick and wounded,
how she can improve the administration of
hospitals, her face takes on an expression of
pyre, spiritual, beauty, her eyes kindle with
enthusiasm, she is transported out of her-
self. The soldiers in the hospitals at Scutari
adored her as an angel, were happy if they
could but touch the hem of her garment,
and sent imploring looks after her shadow.
Henry "Ward Beecher says : “ Work.
There is some tendency among the laboring
classes to reduce the hours of work to eight.
I like it, and I abhor it. I like it, because
it is a sign of the growing intelligence of
the working classes; and I abhor it, because
it would seem that work was hateful. I
don’t believe that common people are going
to work out their fortunes by collusion, ex-
cept by hard knocks. I don’t believe that
the majority of them will be able, at eight
hours’ work, to educate their children and
to leave their families in a better condition.
I do not wish to say anything against the
working man—I who have the blood of;
blacksmiths in my veins but I want to
praise work.”
Large Telescope.—There is in process
of manufacture at Cambridgeport, Massachu-
setts, for the use of the United States Naval
Observatory at Washington, the largest re-
fracting telescope in the world. The object
glass is twenty-six inches in diameter, and
the telescope when completed will cost $46,-
000. McCormick, of McCormick reaper
fame, has ordered an instrument of the same
size, to be presented by him to the Lee and
Washington University of Virginia, his
native State. The next refracting telescope
in point of size is owned by Newhall, of
Gateshead, England. The telescope so
much prized by Harvard University has an
object glass of about fifteen inches diameter,
and the one connected with the Chicago
University has a diameter of eighteen and a
half inches.
Wile mothers heed the following: A
very distinguished Paris physician says: “I
believe that, during the twenty years I have
practiced my profession, 20,000 children
have been carried to the cemeteries, a sacri-
fice to the absurd custom of exposing their
arms. Put the bulb of a thermometer into
a baby’s mouth, and the mercury rises to
ninety degrees. Now, carry the same to its
little hand; if the arm he bare and even
cool, the mercury will sink to fifty degrees.
Of course, all the blood that flows through
these arms must fall from ten to forty de-
grees below the temperature of the heart.
Need I say, when these currents of the
blood flow back to the chest, the child’s vi-
tality must be more or less compromised?
And need I add that we  ought not to be
surprised at the frequently recurring affec-
tions of the tongue, throat, or stomach?”
Here is how Theodore Tilton talks in
the “Golden Age” of the woman recogni-
tion plank in the Philadelphia platform :
“It is something that the women got a rec-
ognition at the Philadelphia Convention.
Of course everybody knows that the woman
plank is the thinnest bit of pasteboard imag-
inable, and means about as much as “ Very
truly Yours,” at the end of a letter; and we
never heard of a woman’s basing a suit for
breach of promise on this complimentary
appendage to an ordinary epistle. The wo-
men who see the dawn of the millennium in
the nebulous generalities of the Philadelphia
platform, must be in a desperate plight, and
like the ancient maiden we hear of, and al-
ways regarded as apocryphal, who exclaimed
out of her impatience, ‘Anything in the
shape of a husband, good Lord !’ If Mrs.
Livermore and Lucy Stone and Miss Gordon
can wax eloquent over Grant, their enthusi-
asm must be irrepressible.”
“There are so many of us. We are
like the blades of grass, as Rod Cloud says.
We cannot all be supported, depend and
cling as we may. We must look out and do
for ourselves.
“ It is now pretty generally admitted that
a woman may know something of business
—of bookkeeping, banking, and even law—
without loosing the peculiar charm and
beauty of her womanhood ; that such stud-
ies as are pursued here do not necessarily
rub the bloom from the peach of maidenly
innocence, the frost from the plum of mod-
est reserve, the gold-dust from the wing of
the feminine soul. True womanhood is not
to be essentially changed by changed pur-
suits and conditions. There is a tough vi-
tality about tender womanhood. It is a
tree, whose roots take hold on eternal life.”
Extinct from Grace Greenwood’s address
in behalf of the Lady Graduates of the
Washington Business College, June 17,
l870.
The “Golden Age” says: When the
Englishman wants money for a charitable or
religious purpose lie collects together a large
number of wealthy old gentlemen, and after
getting them into a good humor by good
feeding and warming their hearts to a glow
of generosity by plenty of wine, depletes
their purses to an important extent. The
public dinner is really a gentle kind of gar-
roting. At these dinners, which are for the
most part insufferably dull, no woman is under
any circumstances admitted, though of late
years, by a daring innovation, ladies have
been admitted to the galleries to look down
aud see their male friends eat, themselves
being regaled by a little wine and sand-
witches handed around. It was into one of
these solid and stupid dinner parties that
our brilliant countrywoman, Miss Kate Field,
was smuggled the other day, without being
scarcely noticed by any one present, until
after the usual heavy toasts and heavier re-
sponses about the Queen and Royal Family
and Army and Navy; then the usual senti-
ment to women was proposed and our fair
revolutionist rose with easy grace, and with
sparkling wit, with winning voice, and
twinkling eyes, won them from their first
stupor of fright; then one and another began
to snicker at her sallies; then followed one
or two hearty laughs, and finally the whole
table was in a roar. The effect of her speech
was electrical, and already some of the solid
Englishers who attend those dinners confess
that they would be more attractive were
ladies Invited to partake of them, and then
to open their lips afterward.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.
			—
  THE Wisconsin tobacco crop for 1872 is
estimated at 10,000,000 pounds.
  THE Odd Fellows of Indiana, in even
numbers, are 20,000 strong.
  THE biggest sale of real estate ever made
in Minnesota was that of 31,500 acres in
Todd and Otter Tail counties sold the other
day to a London firm for $80,000.
   KOOPMANSCHAP has gone to wreck at
last, on the Mongolian wave, with liabilities
of $260,000 and any quantity of assets in
Chinamen’s notes, quotable at a cent a pound
for old paper.
  IN 1871 the iron mills of Illinois rolled
40,026 tons of rails, iucluding 2,800 of sheet
rails, and rounded 51,152 tons, making a to-
tal production of 91,178 tons of railroad bars,
which places Illinois next to Pennsylvania
in the manufacture of rails.
   FRANZ ABT works a whole year in Ger-
many for about $1,500, while in this coun-
try twice that sum is lavished in his enter-
tainment almost nightly.  America must be
to him the Eldorado of his dream days.
  THE total membership of the Orthodox
Quakers at present in the United States is
57,105, being an increase of 715 in 20 years.
   AT THE Methodist General Conference it
was stated the other day that the church
has $70,000,000 of property, and that before
long it will amount to $100,000,000.
  THERE are 215 cadets at the Naval Acad-
emy, 39 of whom were appointed by the
President, four are naval apprentices, three
Japanese students, one is from the District
of Columbia, and 169 from the various
States.
  THE American Printworks at Fall River,
Mass., are arranging to suspend operations
for a season on account of the price of goods.
The amount of business done at the works,
requires $2,100 a day to carry it on, and
nearly $3,000,000 worth of cloth is in process
of printing from the time it goes into the
mill before it is finished.
   THERE are over 650,000 scholars in atten-
dance at the public schools in Illinois.
Teachers number over 20,000. School
houses, log, frame, brick and stone, 10,773.
Expenditures for school purposes for the
past year, $7,000,000.
   LEXINGTON, Ky., has nine hemp facto-
ries, employing an average of about sixty
hands each. The average amount of hemp
consumed per day the year round by these
firms, is from twenty to thirty tons, necessi-
tating the planting by the farmers to supply
this demand of about 30,000 acres of the
best land.
   THE following are the dimensions of the
great bridge now being erected between
New York and Brooklyn: Total length,
5,682 feet; length of central span, 1,600 ;
elevation above high water, 130 ; Width of
bridge floor, 80 feet; height of towers above
high water, 268 feet; base of towers at wa-
ter line, 121 by 56 feet.
  THE Vulcan Iron Works, Carondolet, Mo.,
employs 800 men in relays of five hours
each. The furnaces are turning out from
seventy to eighty tons of pig iron daily.
One of them is making pig iron directly
from pure. Iron Mountain (Mo.) ore, to fill a
contract with the Bessemer Steel Works at
Chicago. The rail mill is making forty tons
per day. The largest vertical, direct-acting,
blowing engine west of Pittsburg is here ;
its steam cylinder has a diameter of five feet
and stroke of nine feet; the blowing cylin-
der, a diameter of ten feet and stroke of nine
feet. Its capacity is 20,000 cubic feet of air
per minute.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿The ladies of the Congregational Society
of San Mateo, realized from their “Mother
Goose party” over $300.


﻿Ohio has enacted by law that eighty-
eight cubic inches of bituminous coal shall
weigh just sixty pounds avoirdupois.


A Connecticut company is putting up a
factory for the building of carriages made
entirely of India rubber, excepting the axles
and tires. A decided superiority is claimed
for the material over wood.


﻿In 1787 the Emperor of China issued the
following decree: “All persons of the female
sex are forbidden, upon any pretext what-
ever, to enter a temple or quit their houses,
except in cases of absolute necessity.
Fathers, husbands, sons or relatives are
commanded to keep them at home on pain
of being themselves severely punished.”
What a believer in equal rights! The men,
most likely, had as hard a time of it as the
women.


The Massachusetts Labor Union Conven-
tion met in Boston on the 28th ult. Wendell
Phillips offered a series of resolutions, which
were adopted after a long debate, approving
all labor associations, announcing the belief,
expediency and necessity of strikes, but
denouncing violence; advocating congres-
sional establishment of labor unions; declar-
ing that all dividend paying companies
should be obliged to divide half of the net
profits among employes, and that imported
pauper contract work should be dutyable.


Z. C. M. I.
	RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.

	We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
riety of our Patrons.
	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated
		SALT LAKE GLOVES.
Children’s Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty.
	While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics
of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,
Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-
est possible figure.
				H.B. CLAWSON, Sup't

LADIES !
	Go to Taylor & Cutler's for Dress Goods, No-
tions, etc. Also the Cheapest Store for Family Gro-
ceries in town. Call and see.

WEED SEWING MACHINES.
			  
		Stitch Alike on Both Sides.
The Lightest Running
		SHUTTLE MACHINE
						In the World.
  Sews Fine and Coarse. No Springs nor Cogs. No
taking apart to Oil or Clean it.
  Send for Circular to 97 Kimball Block, Salt Lake
City.							IRA PFOUTZ, Ag't.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
			     
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
  At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.
[new column]
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

DR. W. H. GROVES,
					DENTIST,
  Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
			Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

LADIES' BAZAR.
		MRS. WILKINSON,
FASHIONABLE MILLINER AND DRESSMAKER
   Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Millinery, Straw
Goods, and all kinds of fancy and Staple Dry Goods.
  Sole agent for the Territory for M'me Demorest's
reliable paper patterns. Orders from the country so-
licited ; patterns sent by mail. Removed to the new
Establishment, 1st South St., next door west of Z. C.
M. I. Wholesale Dry Goods Department.

			JOHNSON'S
	
	HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES !

Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-
	
	ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.

	BONESET PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. 	Price 25 cents.

  EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.

  CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. 	Price 25 cents.

  ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills.	Price 50 cents.

	These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at

	ZION'S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,

Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.

	If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them.

	Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.

	AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.

From the Laboratory of
						J.E. JOHNSON,
						 St. George, Utah.
[next column]
		   WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		A UTAH LADIES' JOURNAL.

	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.

	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them ; and 
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.

	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!"

	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.

	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.

	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.

  Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings; 
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.

	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.

	WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.

   TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1 Copy one year, 	  $2.00	1 Copy six months, $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months, 9.00

	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a 
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

	Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


Woman's Exponent.
									

VOL. I		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15,1872.﻿	NO. 4.


NEWS AND VIEWS.	
			    _____
	Dead At last—The Freedmen’s Bureau.
	In November, which? Grant or Greeley?
	The Boston Jubilee did pay ex-
penses after all, it is averred. Happy Gil-
more! Thrice happy Boston!
	Newspaper Blackguarding and gross
misrepresentation are among the chief char-
acteristics of the Presidential campaign, as
usual.
	Gilmore’s Grand gathering of the
musical clans at Boston closed on the
Fourth. The sad refrain comes across the
continent that the Jubilee did not pay.
	Chicago With an eye to thrift and pru-
dence, grants licenses for the side of fire-
crackers, and assesses a fine of ten dollars
for exploding them. That is municipal
wisdom unalloyed.
	England Has discovered a new liquor to
get drunk on. It is composed of naptha and
ether, will save wheat and barley, and may
possibly fill prisons, madhouses and graves
as rapidly as older stimulating beverages.
	Fifteen Hundred dollars for each ap-
pearance, and expenses paid, was the tune
to which Madame Peschka Leutner sung at
the Jubilee. She is reported to have “a
magnificent organ,” and her notes are un-
questionably golden ones.
	Harvard college has appointed a com-
mittee to consider the propriety of admit-
ting girls; and Dartmouth is exercised be-
cause the woman of the age demands ad-
mission. The world moves, and women
may claim the right, by and by, to have the
best education which the first seat of learn-
ing in the country can impart.
	Kentucky has another hero, a four-
footed one, “Longfellow” by name, that won
the Monmouth cup at the late Long Branch
races; and Kentucky is as enthusiastic over
the fleet quadruped as if it were a gifted
son of the State, who had performed some
noble deed which would reflect honor on
himself, his family and the place that gave
him birth.
	The Stokes trial for the murder of Fisk
draws to a close, and the usual insanity
fiction has been set up as a plea by the de-
fense. If a few of these prominent cases of
“insanity,” as developed in murders, were
confined for life in a well-conducted mad-
house, there would be fewer instances of it
being set up as a plea to save the hangman
of a job. Will Stokes be executed? Very
unlikely.
	Miss Nellie Grant is the champion
traveler. The telegraphic news lately an-
nounced she was in Switzerland, and the
next night the same reliable source of in-
telligence had her in London at a session of
the House of Lords. Doubtless Miss Nellie
is an estimable young woman, but the way
she is talked of in the newspapers must be a
source of great annoyance in the future
when she comprehends fully how ridiculous
they have sought to make her appear with
their tawdry toadying.
	The first State election of the present
campaign will be held in North Carolina on
August 1st. It is expected that the Grant
party will tarry the State, for it is alleged
that large sums of money are being used for
that purpose. The statement speaks vol-
umes concerning the “patriotism,” “intelli-
gence” and “love of country” which ani-
mate the voter man, bleached or colored. If
the allegation be correct, and we have not
seen it disputed, the integrity and safety of
the country merely depend upon a man or
party rich enough to buy power.
	Mrs.	 Hartvie proposes, as Mrs.
Gorden, when she stepped on the platform
in Cincinnati and boldly claimed her right
to speak, was insulted by the “hoodlums”
of the assembly and forced to withdraw,
that in future women go one hundred in
number and stand up all together, like an
iron ring, and surround and protect their
elected epeaker. That would be rather sen-
sational, and, a pleasant “out” for some of
us; but. who would pay the expenses, and
look after the babies while we were about
it, is a question that will bear consideration.
	Three American women, unaccustomed
to the proprieties which are deemed essen-
tial in many places outside of the United
States, went walking fashionably dressed at
a late hour, out in Edinburgh, Scotland, to
visit Holyrood Palace. Their stylish dress
attracted attention, and a mob gathered
around them, a couple of policemen having
finally to afford them protection and escort
them to a place of safety. There is a little
moral attached to this, which the public can
furnish to it themselves.
	The nomination of Horace Greeley and
B. Gratz Brown, a couple of editors, made
at Cincinnati in May, has been repeated at
Baltimore. On Wednesday last, the 10th
inst., the National Democratic Convention,
on the first ballot, gave Greeley 686 votes
out of 732, and then made his nomination
unanimous. Brown, on the first ballot, re-
ceived 713 votes, when his nomination was
also made unanimous. These two men,
therefore, are the chosen candidates of two
great Conventions, and as opposed to Grant
and Wilson have strong hopes of election to
the highest offices within the gift of the
people. Women cannot vote in the States,
or they would be even stronger.
	Jennie Bronson has been the wife of a
Mr. Holbrook, of New Orleans. But a di-
vorce came between them, and a new Mrs.
Holbrook took the place formerly occupied
by Jennie. Quite recently, while the second
Mrs. H. was making her toilet, Jennie
entered her dressing room and fired at her
twice with a pistol. The two women clutched,
when the divorced woman took a bay rum
bottle and battered it into pieces over the
other’s head. She then demolished furni-
ture and fixings, routed the domestics, and
was finally removed to prison, leaving a
dying woman behind. This should be
charged to a madly jealous disposition and
an ungoverned temper; but it might be
charged to matrimony and divorce just as
sensibly as some people charge every do-
mestic difficulty in Utah to plural marriage.
	On Wednesday last, the 10th inst., in
the National Democratic Convention at
Baltimore, Horace Greeley, a life-long an-
tagonist of the Democratic party, was
unanimously nominated as their candidate
for the Presidency of the United States. It
was one of the most startling political acts
that our country has yet seen. And in ac-
cepting that nomination Mr. Greeley said,
the time would yet come when it would be
acknowledged that they were none the less
Democrats because they nominated him, and
that he was none the less a Republican be-
cause he accepted the nomination. There is a
strong combination of political elements all
over the country, not long ago bitterly op-
posed to each other, but now united in the
determination to make Mr. Greeley the
next President of the United States, and the
indications point to their success.
	Three leading National Conventions
have lately been held, at Cincinnati, Phila-
delphia and Baltimore, and the advocates of
woman suffrage endeavored to present their
claims before each. At Cincinnati they were
rather ungracefully treated. At Philadel-
phia a quasi recognition was given to their
demands. And as the Baltimore Conven-
tion adopted the Cincinnati platform, no ac-
knowledgement was made there of the right
of woman to the ballot. The cause of wo-
man suffrage evidently finds little sympathy
with any of the great-political parties. The
Philadelphia allusion to the services of wo-
man and her rights, was included in the
platform for political effect, but so transpar-
ent as to be seen through at a glance. Had the
Republican party meant in good faith what
their platform set forth, their Congressmen
could easily have passed an amendment to
the Constitution conferring the suffrage
upon woman, and sent it to the Legislatures
of the different States for ratification, as
they did with the one enfranchising the
negroes. Women will gain a just recogni-
tion of the right demanded when the peo-
ple at large concede it, regardless of politi-
cians or party platforms.
	Some five years ago a Miss Barber, of
Milford, Massachusetts, conceived the ro-
mantic idea of carrying civilization and re-
finement to the Indians by marrying a chief
and accompanying him to his home in the
wilderness. She was married to Squatting
Bear, a young chief of the Brule Sioux, who
was at Washington, in 1867, and went with
him to his hunting-ground in Dacota. There
she found that Fennimore Cooper’s glowing
descriptions of the noble red man, if not
highly colored pieces of prose poetry, had
no reality among the Sioux. She found
several other Mrs. Squatting Bears occupy-
ing the lodge of her dusky liege-lord. In-
stead of being approached with reverence
as a being of a superior race, and listened to
with eagerness while she poured noble sen-
timents into the ears of those dwellers of
the plains, she was treated like the other
squaws, compelled to do the usual drudgery
of an Indian’s wife, beaten like a dog, and
compelled to witness the murder of one of
his squaws by her savage husband. She
tried to escape, was captured, nearly killed,
and sold to a Cheyenne chief for three
ponies. After being with the Cheyennes
until last Spring, she succeeded in escaping
to Fort Benton, and subsequently returned
to Massachusetts. Romance often makes sad
havoc of the future of young women, but it
is seldom that it weaves a web of such bar-
barous sufferings as in this instance.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.

	Mrs. A. M. Frodsham, of Ogden, continues
to manifest a lively interest in our journal,
to which she politely forwards the following
synopsis of the report of a meeting held by
the F. R. Society of that city, on the 27th of
June:
   “We were much pleased and gratified to
have the company of sisters Eliza R. Snow,
Zina D. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith and
sister Horne, from Salt Lake City, at our
meeting. The President being absent, her
Counselors, Mrs Martha Bingham and Mrs.
Sarah Herrick, took charge of the meeting,
which was opened by some excellent sing-
ing followed with prayer by Mrs. A. M.
Frodsham; and singing again. The meet-
ing was addressed by sisters Z. D. Young,
B. W. Smith and I. Horne, who gave some
excellent counsel and words of encourage-
ment; after which sister E. R. Snow said:
We are all engaged in one great work, the
redemption of mankind. In this work wo-
man hikes a most important part. Upon her
rests the responsibilty, in a great measure,
of giving character to all societies; and this
is for each one of us. God is giving us
opportunities to prove ourselves here. It is
essential that we work for our dead. Work
seems to be the watchword of this genera-
tion. The training of our children is one of
the most weighty duties we have to per-
form; to teach them the difference between
right and wrong, between good and evil in
all respects, so far as we have learned our-
selves to comprehend. She closed by invok-
ing the blessing of God upon those present.
	Sister Richards briefly expressed her feel-
ings, saying she had been much interested
and edified. Donations were taken for the
emigration of the poor to the amount of
sixty-eight dollbrs and some cents, and more
will be collected, it is presumed, to make as
much as $100.”

	Of the Third Ward F.R. Society, of Provo,
we receive a brief but pleasant account from
Mrs. M. John, Secretary.
	A meeting was held on the 6th of June
at the house of Mrs. Tanner, President of
the Society.  A long and severe illness had
prevented Mrs. Tanner’s meeting with the
Society for a length of time. General satis-
faction was expressed by the sisters present,
that her life had been spared and her health
improved so that she could again be able to
meet with them; and she expressed herself
as being truly thankful to God for His good-
ness, and to the brethren and sisters for
their faith and prayers, which had been ex-
ercised in her behalf. The Society seems to
be in a very flourishing condition, Mrs.
John concluding: "Happy to say there are
none needing assistance in the Ward at
present."

	The following from Mrs. Elmira S. Taylor,
Secretary of the 14th Ward F. R. Society of
this city, is brief but comprehensive:
	I send you a brief report of a meeting of the
F. R. Society of the14th Ward, held in the
Society Hall, June 26th. We were favored
with the presence of our Bishop, Brother
Thomas Taylor, who gave us some excellent
instructions, and whose remarks were most
encouraging. He said  he was one with the
Society, that he highly appreciated their
efforts, and would do all in his power to
enable them to carry on their laudable work.
	Sisters E.R. Snow, Bathsheba W. Smith
and Sarah Richards were also present, and
gave much wise and good counsel.
	There are many poor in the Ward who
are assisted by the Society.  The attendance
at meetings is small, but those who do at-
[new column]
tend are energetic and faithful, and feel
blest in the discharge of their duties. Too
much praise cannot be accorded to our
President, Mrs. I. Horne, as she is most in-
defatigable in her efforts to advance the
interests of the Society, and ameliorate the
condition of the poor.

	From Mrs. A. S. Rogers, Secretary of the
F. R. Society of Farmington, we receive a
pleasant report of the fourth annnal meeting
of that Society, held June 19th. Much
valuable instruction was given, and great
satisfaction expressed for the progress the
Society has made, by those who addressed
the meeting, namely; Sisters E. R. Snow,
P. L. Kimball and Z. D. Young, from Salt
Lake City, Elders Arthur Stayner, Job
Welling, Hector Haight, Ezra Clark, John
Tibbits, and the President, Mrs. S. J.
Holmes.
	The financial report shows that since the
organization of the Society $822.85 has been
taken in; $348.85 given to the poor, and
$181.84 donated for public purposes; leaving
a handsome balance in the Treasury.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
				
  POLITENESS IS contagious, and a kind
word, a gracious smile, and a delicate tact
to make sunshine in the heart, are felt and
will have their influence over the conduct and
character of others, which is secretly inspir-
ing them with a love for virtue. A lady
never appears to so much advantage as when
doing the honors of her home. There she
has opportunity for the full development of
her character and. a display of the charms
which are truly her highest ornaments. The
care of an accomplished and well-bred wo-
man will so regulate an establishment, that
visitors may at any time be received with-
out apologies.
  COUNTERPANES THAT are neat and light,
and easy to wash, can be made in this way:
Take new cotton cloth; make it longer than
a sheet, and if for a wide bed, two breadths
and a half; before being wet, draw in candle-
wick, in diamonds of about a finger apart,
and cut off to leave ends on the out side
about half an inch long; then wash and
bleach them, and they are durable and look
very tidy. One can be made in a day and a
half or two days with a needle that has a
very large eye, like the packing needle.
Draw the wick in double, and if done true
the diamond will be formed.
  NITRE MOISTENED with water is said to be
an excelled wash to remove freckles from
the skin.
  DISSOLVE, FOR fruit cream, half an ounce
of isinglass in warm water enough to cover
it; add to this a pint of cream, .sweetened
with four spoonfuls of sugar, and boil it.
When cool, lay some apricot, raspberry or
peach preserves in a glass dish and pour the
cream over it.
  STRONG ALUM water, often applied, is a
great enemy to warts, and seldom fails to
drive them away without danger or damage
to the afllicted party. To cut or pick a wart
until it bleeds freely, and then put on it a
little quick lime is a sure cure, and not
painful as one would think who had not
tried it.
  ANY HARD, steel tool will cut glass with
great facility when kept freely wet with
camphor dissolved in turpentine. -The rag-
ged edges of glass vessels may also be thus
easily smoothed by a flat file.
  TO MAKE hard gingerbred, take one quart
of molasses, two cupfuls of sugar, three
quarters of a pound of butter and lard, one
cupful of ginger, a teaspoonful of black pep-
[next column]
per and a tablespoonful of cloves, cinnamon
and allspice.
  DURABLE WHITEWASH. —Whitewashed
walls will not rub off if the lime is thus pre-
pared: Mix half a pailful of lime and water;
take half a pint of flour, make a starch of it,
and pour it hot into the whitewash; stir it
well, and add a little salt.
  JELLY.—To make a quart, soak one oz. of
gelatine in a pint of cold water for twenty
minutes, then add the same quantity of
boiling water, stir until dissolved; add the
juice and peel of two lemons, with enough
sugar to sweeten; have ready, well beaten,
the white and shell of one egg stir these
briskly into the jelley, then boil for two
minutes without stirring it; remove it from
the fire, and allow it to stand two minutes,
then strain through a close flannel bag;
this jelly may be flavored or colored
according to taste.
   COTTAGE PUDDING.—Warm two and a
half tablespoonsful of butler, stir in a teacup
of white sugar and two eggs. Put two tea-
spoonsful of cream tartar in one pint of flour,
add a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a cup
of milk; flavor with lemon or vanilla. Bake
three-quarters of an hour in a moderate
oven, and serve hot with rich hot sauce.
  MORNING BISCUITS.—One quart of flour,
half a teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonsful
of yeast, and one pint of sour milk, with
half a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it.
Work this into a dough; then rub into the
dough half a cup of butter. Knead well; cut
off some bits; shape them into biscuits; lay
them in the bake pan, cover closely with a
broadcloth, and let them stand over night,in a
warm place in the Winter, and a cold place
in the Summer. Bake in the morning for
breakfast.
  BREAD PUDDING.—One pint of fine bread
crumbs, one cup of sugar, two tablespoonsful
of molasses, half a pound of suet chopped
fine, one coffee-cup of raisins, half a rind of
preserved orange-peel or citron cut thin and
fine, very little nutmeg and cinnamon, two
teaspoonsful cream tartar, one small tea-
spoonful soda, one teaspoonful of salt. Stir
in milk enough to make it thick as pound-
cake; beating all thoroughly together; put it
into a buttered pudding mould, and boil
three hours. Be careful to keep the water
boiling all the time.
		————————


﻿“MUST I pray too, mother?” asked a two
year old boy, with flaxen hair, and mild
blue eyes, as the family were called together
for morning prayers. “Yes, dear, of course
you must,” answered his mother. “What
shall I pray for?” continued the little quer-
ist. “For whatever you want most,” was
the response; and while his father was offer-
ing up his prayer, the little fellow was over-
heard to whisper loudly hut reverently,
“Pray, Father, give me some candy! Pray,
O, Father, give me some candy!”  It is
needless to say that the innocent and sweet
petition was heard and promptly answered.


﻿NOT THE MATERIAL FOR A SHAKERESS.
—Mary Hogan was too pretty a girl to be a
Shakeress. They tied her hair and ears
back, and distorted her fair proportions by
uncomely dress, but she still refused to be
plain. Brother Jackson, warmed out of cold
faith by love and the weather, eloped with
and married Mary a few days ago. When
interviewed by some of the scandalized
brethren, Mary is reported to have said:
“You can make your apple sass and war-
rant it to keep; but gals ain’t apples, and
you.can’t bile ’em down so they won’t sour
on your old rules about marrying.”—“Wash-
ington Star.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NEARER HOME.

	One of Alice Cary’s songs has a story con-
nected with it, of a young man in a gamb-
ling house at Hong Kong, who sang one
verse while idly shufiling the cards. The
young man’s companion, old in sin, was so
rebuked by the sweet sentiment of the song
that he arose from the play and with tears
in his eyes said, “Come, Harry; here’s what
I won from you; go and use it for some good
purpose. As for me, as God sees me, I have
played my last game, and drank my last
bottle. I have misled you, Harry, and I am
sorry. Give me your hand, my boy, and
say that, for old America’s sake, if for no
other, you will quit this infernal business.”
	The gentleman who told the story
(originally published in “The Boston Daily
News”) saw these two men leave the gamb-
linghouse together, and walk away arm in
arm; and he remarked: “It must be a
source of great joy to Miss Cary to know
that her lines, which have comforted so many
Christian hearts, have been the means of
awakening in the breasts of two tempted
and erring men on the other side of the
globe, a resolution to lead a better life.”
Here is the song:
	One sweetly solomn thought
	  Comes to me o’er and o’er;
	I’m nearer my home to-day
	  Than I ever have been before;

	Nearer my Father’s house,
	  Where the many mansions be;
	Nearer the great white throne,
	  Nearer the crystal sea;

	Nearer the bound of life,
	  Where we lay our burdens down;
	Nearer leaving the cross,
	  Nearer.gaining the crown. 

	But the waves of that silent sea
	  Roll dark before my sight,
	That brightly the other side
	  Break on a shore of light.

	O, if my mortal feet
	  Have almost gained the brink,
	If it be I am nearer home
	  Even to-day than I think,

	Father, perfect my trust.
	  Let my spirit feel in death
	That her feet are firmly set
	  On the Rock of living faith.


﻿WOMAN'S DETERMINATION.
				
   Among the evidences of woman’s deter-
mination to enlarge her resources, is notable
that of a lady who acts as coal agent for a
large firm in this city. She solicits orders
from merchants and private families, and is
so successful as to be enabled thereby to sup-
port comfortably an infirm father and
mother, a little child, an insane brother and
herself. One old conservative gentleman
whose ideas of woman’s sphere do not ex-
tend beyond the hearthstone, when told that
a lady wished to see hint about ordering
coal, showed his disgust by exclaiming on
her entrance to his presence:
   “Woman in the coal business! What
next, I wonder. The men will have to take
in dress-making to compete with them."
  “Beg your pardon, sir,” answered the
lady, “But the men have already done so,
and met with success too. There is----,
who takes in washing and has it done by
men too.”
  The old gentleman looked slightly dumb-
founded at this retort, but quickly recover-
ing, he smiling, acknowledged the “corn,”
and gave her a liberal order for his gear’s
supply of coal, both for his business and
private residence as well.—“New York Ex-
press.”


﻿FLOWERS BY THE WAYSIDE.
			    —
 Whatever purifies also fortifies the heart.
 Charity is an eternal debt, and without
limit.
 A beautiful external life symbolizes a
beautiful soul.
 It is easier to be wise for others than for
ourselves, yet such wisdom is wasted.
 Eagerness to grasp, often strangles and
destroys pleasure.
 Innocence confers freedom to the mind,
and leaves it open to every pleasing sensa-
tion.
  “Errors, like straw, upon the surface flow;
but he who seeks for pearls must dive be-
low.”
  The chief misfortunes in life can be traced
to some vices or follies committed by the
sufferers.
 The spirit of love, like the fragrance of
flowers, may be inhaled while the object is
out of sight.
  The veil which covers from our sight the
events of succeeding years, is woven by the
hand of mercy.
  The most forlorn and helpless sinner was
once an innocent child, possessed of untold
possibilities of good.
  Whatever useful or engaging endowments
we possess, virtue is requisite to their shin-
ing with proper lustre.
  Diligence, industry and a proper im-
provement of time, will never fail of gain-
ing great and just rewards.
  The desire to improve denotes a liberal'
mind, and is connected with many accom-
plishments and many virtues.
 They who have nothing to give but sym-
pathy can often afford relief by imparting
what they feel.
 It is as difficult for revenge to act without
exciting suspicion, as for a rattlesnake to
stir without making a noise.
  Many mistake the admiration for the
practice of virtue, and are not so much good
friends as the friends of goodness.
  Restraint is the golden rule of enjoyment;
we appreciate no pleasures properly, unless
occasionally debarred from them.
  A temperate spirit and moderate expecta-
tions are excellent safeguards of the mind
in this uncertain and changing world.
  In the darkest night there still is light in
the sky somewhere shining up from the
sun or coming down from the distant stars.
  There is nothing except simplicity of in-
tention and purity of principle that can
stand the test of near approach and strict
examination.
  Mere intellectual acuteness, if divested,
as it often is, of all that is comprehensive of
goodness, is more revolting than the most
helpless imbecility.
  The.best preparation for all the uncertain-
ties of futurity, consists in a well-ordered
mind, a clear conscience, and a cheerful sub-
mission to the will of Heaven. 
  To be wise in our own eyes, to be wise in
the opinion of the world, and to be wise in
the sight of our Creator, are three things so
very different as rarely to come together.
  If you take a great deal of pains to serve
and benefit your fellow creatures, and after
all they scarcely thank you for the trouble
you have taken, do not be angry and make
a loud noise about the world’s ingratitude;
for then it would seem that you cared
more about the thanks than the blessings
you sought to bestow.


WHAT’S THE HURRY?
	The question of labor is likely to be one of
vast interest during the remaining years of
the present century. The idea seems to be
universally conceded by the laboring class,
that too much time is required for work and
not a sufiicient amount granted for rest and
recreation.
	Certain it is, that all denominations, parties
and sects are hurrying through the world
with a rapidity that daily increases, and be-
comes each year, seemingly, more and more
irrestable. Many of those who are wealthy
would drive their workwomen to hard
physical labor all the time, day and night,
were it in their power; so anxious are they
to-grasp all in their reach, and to have their
arms extended and strengthened so that
they may reach and grasp and secure still
more. And many of those who are poor are
so eager to become rich in a hurry, that they
are almost opposed to spending time and
dilligence enough at any kind of work to
make it profitable, either to themselves or
their employers. A calm, quiet course of
procedure is apparently considered of little
account in the effort to accomplish anything
now-a-days; it is all hurry and bustle, elec-
tric speed for every thing that is done.
Every one you meet with is tired, but still
in a hurry to get some piece of work off
hands. No one has time to rest; the balance
would get ahead if one rested a little. Wait
a minute, poor, old world! Your sage head
must be dizzy and confused with such ceas-
less turning, day after day and year after
year, for so many generations! Why rush
along so furiously? It must be almost time for
the “new Heaven and new earth” to make
their appearance, any how; you are coming
to an end fast enough. What’s the hurry?
								   G.


﻿GIRLS, DON’T TALK SLANG!
				
  An exchange says: Girls, don’t talk
slang! If it is necessary that any one in 
the family should do that, let your big
brother, though I would advise him not to ;
talk “pigeon English” when there is an
elegant, systematized language that he can
just as well use; but don’t you do it. You
have no idea how it sounds to ears unused
or averse to it, to hear a young lady, when
she is asked to attend some place of amuse-
ment, answer, “Not much;” or, if requested
to do something she does not wish to, “Can’t
see it!”
   Not long ago I heard a Miss, who is edu-
cated and accomplished say, in speaking of
a yonng man, that she intended to “go for
him;” and when her sister asked her assist-
ance at some work, she answered, “Not for
Joe.”
  Now, young ladies of unexceptionable
character and really good education, fall
into this habit, thinking it shows smart-
ness to answer back in slang phrases; and
they soon slip flippantly from their tongues
with a saucy pertness that is neither lady-
like nor becoming. Young men who talk i
in that way do not care to hear it from the
lips they love or admire—it sounds much
coarser then; and, really, slang does not
save time in use of language as an abbrevi-
ation: “No” is shorter and much more de-
cided than “not much;” “l am sure,” is quite
as easily said as “I’ll bet.”
  More than one promising wedding has
been indefinitely postponed by such means,
for, however remiss young men may be in
such things themselves, they look for better
things in the girls of their choice—and it
does not help them to mend a bad habit to
adopt it.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT﻿


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
			LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.

  Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3. 
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.
	SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 15, 1872.


﻿SPLINTERS.
			
  The negro population ot Virginina has de-
creased 3 1/2 per cent. in the decade from 1860
to 1870.......At Long Branch, a grand fair is
to be held this Summer, for the benefit of
the French Liberation Fund...........Cut
worms are destroying the imported Havana
tobacco, now growing in Connecticut.....
The Alabama State Democratic convention
which met June 19th, was the largest ever
held in the State......The annual reduction
of tariff duties, taxes and interest by the
acts of the Congress lately adjourned, it is
estimated, amounts to $51,823,761......A
great many cattle are reported dying in
Clark Co., Alabama, from an unknown dis-
ease...Missoula county, M. T., it is said, will
produce more grain this season, by one
half, than it ever did before......A visitor to
the Charleston, Massachusetts State prison,
reported that eight out of every ten of the
prisoners therein confined had come there,
directly or indirectly by liquor...M’me.
Rossina has been successful in the action for
damages recently brought against M.
Michotte for performing unpublished works
of her husband......Trees have been found
in Australia taller than those of California,
though not so large......Charles Reade has
five libel suits on hand against English
journalists, for criticisms of his new play,
"Shilly Shally"......In Switzerland, when a
prison becomes vacant, a white flag is
hoisted on its towers to apprize the world of
the fact. Such a standard now waves over the
jail at Montiers....Mrs. Stevens says the
habit of living in hotels and boarding-houses,
and eating at restaurants, is one of the bad
features of California life; there are too few
homes, and that is the reason why society
is so demoralized......It is stated of a promi-
nent military general that “his sword was
never drawn but once and that was in a
raffle"....The scheme of excavating a railroad
tunnel under the Straits of Dover, to con-
nect England and france, has been ban-
doned on account of the expense and engi-
neering difficulties......Mrs. Lattimer, of the
Pacific Coast convention association, man-
ages a farm of over one thousand acres and
makes a paying institution of it......A fine
quarry of lithographic stone has been dis-
covered in Kentucky, on the line of the
Lexington and Big Sandy railroad........A
foreigner, writing about the United States,
calls this country "the land of school houses."
......Jersey CIty is threatened with water
famine......Mrs. Fisk will erect a $50,000
monument over her deceased husband......
Prince Fredrick Charles, it is said, designs
visiting the United States next month......
Bryant, Longfellow, Homes, Saxe and
Lowell are all rich men. Poetry and poverty
are no longer inseparable companions......
The British iron product is about 5,500,000
tons a year, and the American about 2,000,-
000......At Cincinnati, a few days since,
Rev. J. J. Thompson, pastor of a M. E. 
chapel, had his head split open with a
hatchet in the hands of Thomas Bond. Cause:
Thompson kissed Bond's sweetheart......Of
the 139 members of the English Chaucer
Society, 56 are Americans......The diamond
miners near the Cape of Good Hope have al-
ready sent to Europe and sold $7,500,000
worth of diamonds......Mrs. Abbie Sage
Richardson will probably accept the chair of
elocution at the Cook county, Illinois,
Normal School.......A female book canvasser
in California says she has had fourteen of-
fers of marriage and sixty engagements to
lecture within six months......Gold Hill,
Nevada, will soon be lighted with gas. The
laying of the pipe has already commenced.
......The first new baby in Cairo since the
[next column]
Cincinnati Convention, is said to have been
named Horace Greeley Cummings......
Hugo Von Mohl, the greatest botanist of
the day, died recently at Tubingen, in his
sixty-seventh year......"Why women can-
not be turned into men," is the title of a
new work, published in England......En-
gagement bracelets, placed by the intended
husband on the lady's arms and locked by a
small gold key, is the latest novelty......
Rev. Robert Collyer, of Chicago, speaking
of the "social evil," says that one of the
chief duties with us all is to urge young peo-
ple to get married......Of fifty candidates
who passed the Arts examination of the
Apothecaries' Society of London, a few days
since, only twenty-seven were successful,
two of them ladies, Mrs. Henry Lawson
and Miss Alice Rowland......Women
in Austria perform the duties of bricklayers
and may be seen carrying hods of morter
and baskets of brick up high ladders......
The shout that shook the sea-shore when
"Longfellow" came in foremost at the end
of the struggle for the Monmouth cup, was
thought to represent the powers of 15,000
lungs......All the newspapers in Lima, ex-
cept the “Times,” have been arbitarily sup-
pressed and their special editors arrested....
A large body of the Arizona Apaches have
been making a raid into Sonora, killing and
destroying without mercy.


﻿SUMMER MORTALITY;
			
  For some seasons past an unusual mortality
has prevailed in this city, particularly among
children, in the latter part of the summer, es-
pecially in the months of August and Septem-
ber; and occasionally continuing through Octo-
ber. At one time it has appeared as diptheria;
at another.as scarlet fever; but more generally
the fatal disease has taken the form of an
epedemic bowel complaint, and the little
victims to it have had the causes of their death
variously reported as cholera-infantum, teeth-
ing, and bowel-complaint.
  Why this mortality should come thus period-
ically and fill numerous children’s graves is a
subject which medical skill has so far failed to
furnish satisfactory reasons for. Some persons
attribute it to the eating of unripe fruit; others
to miasmatic vapors arising from stagnant wa-
ter near the southwestern portion of the city,
and some again to other causes. But while the
source of the mortality is not satisfactorily un-
derstood, there is little doubt that much sick-
ness and many deaths maybe prevented by moth
ers exercising due care in observing the laws of
health. A regular condition of body is neces-
sary to the preservation of health, and this is
more especially so during the latter part of
Summer and early Autum, when the human
system is relaxed and more or less enervated
from continued heat. Mothers who are nursing
cannot be too careful as to what they eat and
drink, if they desire the infants that draw sus-
tenance from them to enjoy good health. Fruit
or vegetables which they are unaccustomed to


use should be very sparingly partaken of; so
with watermelons or anything calculated to
relax the system; for laxity and constipation
are equally dangerous. To nurse an infant
when the body is overheated is injurious, nor
can it be done without evil results to the babe.
And the eating ot much pastry or highly
seasoned food is also productive of injury and
often of serious consequences. A regular and
temperate diet, exercising care not to partake
too freely of anything which is not ordinarily
used, is best for the preservation of health for
all, and more particularly nursing mothers.
  A sad and often fatal mistake made by many,
and growing out of maternal fondness, is the 
giving children any kind of food that may be
on the table for which they express a desire. A
little one seated in its mother's lap will ask or
make signs for something of which she is par-
taking and she cannot refuse. The childish
wish is gratified. It may be meat, or pie, or
something else which its tender stomach is
utterly incapable of digesting with ease. The
child is taken sick; its mother does not know
what is the matter with it; the disease con-
tinues, and before proper remedies are applied
it has seized fatal hold of its victim and another
little grave is filled, while a weeping mother
murmers against Providence for robbing her of
her babe.
  Mothers, we say in sorrow, that this is too
often the ease. And many a child, whose bones
are now mingling with the dust, might have
been to-day in the possession of life and vigor-
ous health had proper care been taken in the
matter of diet. Think of it, now that Summer
is here.


“MORMON WOMEN.”

  An extract from the San Francisco “Pioneer”
under the above title, and comments on it by a
lady of this city, will be found elsewhere in
this number. The editor of the “Pioneer”
evidently desires to be deceived relative to
the sentiments of the “intelligent women of
Utah,” those women who have proved their in-
telligence as organizers and colony-founders
along with men whose troubles and privations
they have shared and in whose prosperity they
participate. There are no people so difficult to
undeceive and as they who are self-deceived and
are satisfied with their assumed knowledge.
The “Pioneer” may be assured that the “Mor-
mon women” have long since been waked “up
to a full realization of their grave situation,”
and have solid reasons for holding that its editor
and those in whose agitation she so manifestly
sympathizes, would do well to pass through a
similar process of “awaking up;” for the con-
dition of women the world over is far from
what it should be, nor were the day-dreams so
often indulged in realized would it be greatly
improved.  But we desire to let this matter be
discussed by others of the “Mormon women” of
Utah, either over their own signatures or not
as best pleases them, satisfied that there are
hundreds of intelligent women in Utah who
can present facts and reasons on the subject
which the editor of the “Pioneer” would profit
by carefully considering and studying.
  The columns of the EXPONENT are open to
the “Mormon "Women” that they may express
themselves freely on this and other matters in
which they have been abundantly misrepre-
sented.


﻿ON SATURDAY last a meeting was held in the
tabernacle to nominate candidates for the com-
ing election. As the women of Utah possess
the suffrage, we shall treat at greater length
on the nominees next issue than we have
space to do now.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.
			 —
 THERE APPEARS to be a misunderstanding
on the part of numbers of our readers, in regard
to the Editor of the EXPONENT, “Mr. L. L.
Green, Dear Editor,” and “Editor Woman’s
EXPONENT, Dear Sir,” are honorable appella-
tions, but we are not entitled to either “Mr.” or
“Sir,” being simply a woman, which our name
as it now appears over the editoriaI department
will indicate.
  WE MUST repeat again that subscribers in
this city who desire their papers delivered at
their residences, can be so accommodated by
the payment of twenty-five cents for the year
to the carrier; and they should send in their
names immediately. Those who do not wish
it delivered can get it after the first and fifteenth
of each month by calling at Campbell & Patter-
son’s East Temple Street.
  ON SATURDAY evening last a Greeley and
Brown ratification meeting was held at the
City. Hall, in this city, at which nearly five
thousand people were present, including many
ladies. Two bands of music were in attendance,
an artillery salute was fired, and stirring
speeches were made. The indications were very
decisive that if Utah had a State government
Its electoral vote would be given for Mr. Gree-
ley by a very large popular majority.
  MRS. DUNIWAY, editor of the “New North-
west,” Portland, Oregon, delivered an interest-
ing lecture in the tabernacle in this city on
Monday night, the 8th inst., choosing for her
subject “Human Rights.” Reference will be
ound made to it elsewhere, and the circum-
stances which brought Mrs. Duniway into the
editorial sanctum and the lecture field. She is
an earnest woman, and in her lecture advanced
some excellent ideas clothed In a garniture of
oloquent language
   THE NATIONAL Anniversary has come and
gone since our last issue. Independence Day
passed without a formal celebration in this
city, as a result of the narrow-mindedness of
ofiicial authority which would prevent a free
people from celebrating as they should the
birth-day of freedom. But in their “heart of
hearts” the people carried their love for liberty
and their reverence for the great men gone, just
as fondly as though they had engaged in all the
outward seeming of patriotism which so often
characterizes Fourth of July celebrations.
  HON. W. H. HOOPER, retires from the politi-
cal field as Delegate to Congress, after having
faithfully served the Territory for ten years in
that position. He retains the unabated confi-
dence and warmest wishes for his success of the
thousands whose votes were cast for him at
each election, for he has proved himself an in-
defatigable, energetic, and honorable public
officer. Hon. Geo. Q. Cannon is nominated for
Delegate, a gentleman in every way qualified
to fill the place, and with a record as clear as
the crystal water which is his principal bever-
age.	
  ALMOST EVERY day subscriptions are being
received for the Exponent, the senders asking
to have the papers sent from the beginning of
the volume. We regret being unable to meet
these requests affirmatively, as the issue of the
first and second numbers is exhausted. The desire
to possess the history of the first organization of
the Female Relief Society In Nauvoo, written,
by Miss Eliza R. Snow, is one great reason why
so much anxiety is manifested to obtain the
numbers in which it appeared; and to meet
this desire we purpose, after some little time,
republishing it for the benefit of those who
have not yet read it.	
[new column]
  WEDNESDAY WEEK, the Twenty-fourth inst.,
is the anniversary of the day when the Pioneers,
under President Brigham Young, entered this
valley. The occasion is held in warm remem-
brance by the people of Utah, for it opened a
new era in their history. Here, after having
borne for sad years the pitless storm of persecu-
tion, culminating in the martyrdom of their
Prophet and Patriarch and their being driven
beyond the confines of “civilization,” they
found rest and peace, and under the blessing of
Heaven the little one has become a nation. No
wonder they celebrate the day with fervor and
earnestness.
		 ————————


﻿WOMAN'S STATUS.
			   —
  With the EXPONENT'S permission I will
follow up the subject which appeared In
your first number, under the title “Woman’s
Rights, and Wrongs.”
   The status of women is one of the ques-
tions of the day. Socially and politically it
forces itself upon the attention of the world.
Some who are so conservative that they op-
pose every change until they are compelled
to accept it, refuse to concede that woman is
entitled to the enjoyment of any rights other
than those which the whims, fancies or jus-
tice, as the case may-be, of men may choose to
grant her. The reasons which they cannot
meet with argument they decry and ridicule,
an old refuge for those opposed to correct
principles which they are unable to contro-
vert. Others, again, not only recognize that
woman’s status should be improved, but are
so radical in their extreme theories that they
would set her in antagonism to man, assume
for her a separate and opposing existence,
and to show how entirely independent she
should be would make her adopt the more
reprehensible phases of character which men
present, and which should be shunned or im-
proved by them instead of being copied by
women. These are two extremes, and be-
tween them is the “golden mean.”
  We do not have to go back very far in
the history of the Anglo-Saxon race to find
a time when women were viewed and treat-
ed as chattels. The father had absolute
power in everything, except in the matter
of life and death, over his daughter. The
husband had equal power over his wife.
She was his property, to the last article of
raiment worn by her. And there are not
wanting instances within a comparatively
recent date where women have been sold
with a halter around the neck, and passed
quietly and almost uncomplainingly into
the possession of their purchasers. Even
now, among the lower classes of the Eng-
lish, the wife speaks of her husband as “my
master,” not “my husband;” and this by
traditionary force In cases where the man is
anything but master, being the veriest slave
of a woman’s will.
   Coming to America the status of woman
among the same classes may be something
higher, but it is not so well defined in any
grade of society. See the manner in which
ladies—a term for which I have little rever-
ence or respect—are treated in all public
places! The most obsequious deference is
ostensibly paid to their slightest wish. The
profane man, from whose lips in the company
of men alone oath follows oath, one scarcely
waiting on the other, will not utter an of-
fensive word in the presence of woman. She
must not be allowed to stand if a seat can be
found by a man vacating it. She must be
preserved from the slightest blast of trouble,
petted, carressed, dressed to attract atten-
tion, taught accomplishments that minister
to man’s-gratification; in other words, she
must be treated as a glittering and fragile
[new column]
toy, a thing without brains or soul, placed
on a tinselled and unsubstantial pedestal by
man, as her worshipper. This elevation of
status is by courtesy, not by right. Let one
of those idols choose to step beyond the
bounds which society prescribes, and she is
hurled from her position, and flung in the
mire of social degradation. What legal rights
can she fall back  upon? What power has
she to work her own restoration? In some
of the States of the Union she can acquire
and control property, and this is a great step
in advance. Yet she is far from possessing
the power to rise aboe untoward circum-
stances that she would possess, if she enjoyed
polilical rights and influences. For “society,”
or any social combination, in this country,
is composed of people a part of whom pos-
sess political influence, and that very in-
fluence gives them social power. An indi-
vidual man possesses but a single vote; but
he may have talent and ability, and can lead
the votes of others; and he is a power, even
though he be known to be corrupt nnd in-
temperate, and his honor and honesty are
questionable. The individual woman may
possess equal talents and ability, but she has
not a single vote, she cannot lead votes,
she is not a political power of any kind, and
society only respects her so long as she con-
forms to its rules.
  Woman’s true status is that of companion
to man, yet protected by law in the posses-
sion of those rights which will enable her to
act in an independent sphere, should he
abuse his position and render the union un-
endurable. To discuss the position thus laid
down would occupy more space than your
limits will allow at the present, so I will
take it up again.				E.


﻿MRS. DUNWAY'S LECTURE.
					—
  Mrs. Duniway, an able champion of human
rights, has favored our city with a passing
call, and our citizens with a public expres-
sion of some of her views. She is no ex-
tremist, except in her reverence for the
sacred office of motherhood.
  As Milton placed Adam and Eve, she
places man and woman, hand in hand in all
the walks of life. While being in-
terviewed she gave an interesting sketch of
the manner of her conversion to this, to
some, objectionable doctrine. She said that
while it was her only ambition to be a good
wife and mother, her husband missed his
financial balance, and about the same time
met with a personal injury, which drove
her to the school room and thence to a mil-
linery store. She competed disadvantage-
ous with men. Around her were other
women struggling similarly to keep their
heads’ above water, and claiming her assist-
ance.
   At the close of a day’s labor in which
sympathy and aid had been called in different
directions, and disasters and snubs had been
unusually prevalent, she approached the
low couch on which her invalid husband
was lying, and seating herself on the carpet
laid her head against him; and after re-
hearsing the difficulties of the day, she said
“Why are these things?” Her noble and
generous husband (that is what she called
him) said, “My dear, these things must in
the nature of things be so until woman
takes her proper position as the social, and
political equal of man.” She said an inspira-
tion seemed to enable her to comprehend
that moment what she had heard him talk
many times before.			RHEUMA.


THE MAN who was hemmed in by a crowd
has been troubled with a stitch in his side
ever since.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿ABOUT WOMEN.
			   —
  UPWARD of sixteen American widows are
sojourning at Dresden.
  LADIES are being admitted to the practice
of dentistry in Germany.
  LADY Beaconslield, Disraeli’s wife, is ill
beyond hope of recovery!
  THE ladies of Paris, Ky., are forming an
anti-speak-evil-of-your-neighber society.
  A BLIND woman in Iowa has learned to
thread a cambric needle with her teeth and
tongue.
  THE wickedest woman in Boston is named
Jemima Jakes. She claims to have yanked
fifty husbands from the domestic hearth.
  THE eye of a good mother is like the sun;
it shines on a world that weuld be dark
without, and its brightness is that of love.
  THE fees of a Wyoming paper for mar-
riage notices are “as high as the ecstacy and
liberality of the bridegroom may prompt.
  THE stillborn daughter of Mrs. Bates, the
Nova Scotia giantess, was twenty-eight
inches long, and weighed eighteeen pounds.
  THE citizens at Battle Creek, Mich., have
rewarded Miss Emma Pearl, of that city,
with a fine gold watch, for taking care of a
small-pox afllicted family.
  AT Coburg it is believed that Queen Vic-
toria will abdicate at an early day, and then
pass the remainder of her life at Castle
Kosenau, where Prince Albert was educated.
  THE Berger sisters may be numbered
among the very few women that appear on
the stage at the present day, who earn the
money and the applause which they re-
ceive.
  MRS. Edmund Dexter, who created a
furore at the St. Louis Saengerfest, is a Cin-
cinnati brunette, of self-possession, embon-
point, and pleasant presence—a light edition
of Parepa.
  SOME of the young Quakeresses, who were
dressed in modern style, were admonished
by the venerable Lucretia Mott, at a recent
meeting, to beware of the follies of fashion
and dress in becoming simplicity and dig-
nity.
  BARBARA Ubryk, the story of whose
long imprisonment as a nun attracted so
much attention a few years ago, has now re-
covered from her severe and protracted suf-
ferings, and is living quietly and happily at
Cracow.
  NO wonder the fair sex disliked Dr. John-
son when he said: People flock to hear a
woman preach, not because she preaches
well, but because she preaches anyhow.
Just as they go to see a dog walk on his
hind legs, though he does not walk on them
nearly so well as a man.
  THE women of Damascus, Illinois, take
part in the discussion of the farmers’ club
meeting. A recent conundrum was: “Shall
we dress for comfort or show?” It was, of
course, decided to dress for comfort, and
then they all went away, and at the next
meeting each appeared with a “three-
decker” head-dress and a “Dolly Varden”
suit.
  A FASHION reporter describes some of
the toilets at a recent party at Cheyenne:
“The belle of the evening was Miss W. She
dressed faultlessly in a linsey-woolsey of the
palest shade of ‘cafe au lait,’ cut ‘entrain’
and trimmed with Chicago relics. Miss H.
wore a ‘polonaise’ made of blue jeans,
postilioned in the back, cut ‘vis-a-vis’ with
a ‘detree’ bias, and gored in the most san-
guinary manner. She wore no jewel but
consistency.”


MORMON WOMEN.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Under the above heading I find the fol-
lowing in the San Francisco "Pioneer" of
July 4th:
	"We are pleased to see the intelligent
women of Utah coming to the front and de-
nouncing Polygamic life, and are giving the
lie to some former statements that these
women were happy under a system which
strikes at the root of womanhood, blighting
the affections and hopes, and making her a
slave to priestcraft—teaching a woman that
she is most happy when most oblivious of
every instinct of her nature. But this new
agitation among the Mormon women them-
selves, who are at last awaking up to a full
realization of their grave situation, will do
more than anything that has transpired
lately to shake the priestcraft in Utah to its
utmost depths. Let them open their mouths
and testify to the wrongs they suffer, and
their lives will no longer be but a dreary
show."
	As a "Mormon Woman" I beg a little
space to notice this paragraph.
	What definition the "Pioneer" may give
to the word "intelligent" I am unable to
say. If it is that element existing in the
composition of some narrow minds, which
protrudes itself into public notice in the
form of the grossest misrepresentations,
meddling with affairs in which it has no in-
terest but to injure those concerned, but
little need be said. Yet if my idea of in-
telligence be correct, that it is a quality of
true understanding, something which is cal-
culated to create good for its possessors and
their fellow men, to establish Truth and
Virtue and aid in uprooting error and cor-
ruption, then the "Pioneer" has been grossly
deceived, and its "pleasure" is grounded on
a great misunderstanding. For the "in-
telligent women of Utah" have not taken
the stand which, it seems, the "Pioneer"
would be pleased to have them take. On
the contrary, the intelligent Mormon wo-
men comprehend more clearly to-day than
ever before how elevated is their position
as honered wives and mothers, and the
partners of good and noble men. As for
their hopes and affections being blighted,
there is no intelligent Mormon woman that
could not say with sincerity of heart that the
better she learns to understand the religion
she professes, the brighter and purer do her
hopes and affections become. And instead of
being oblivious of any instinct of her nature,
she has a fuller realization of her true rela-
tionship to God and the works of His crea-
tion, than is possessed by those who un-
appreciated and senseless whinings over
her wrongs she can only despise, while she
pities the ignorance, willful though it may
be, of such as seek to crowd themselves out
of their proper sphere into one which they
will fail to be satisfied with, or hold with
honorable dignity, should they ever obtain
it in the illegitimate way they have adopted.
							TRUTH.

----
﻿MORMON WOMEN.
Editor Exponent:
Under the above heading I find the fol-
lowing in the San Francisco “Pioneer” of
July 4th:
“We are pleased to see the intelligent
women of Utah coming to the front and de-
nouncing Polygamic life, and are giving the
lie to some former statements that these
women were happy under a system which
strikes at the root of womanhood, blighting
the affections and hopes, and making her a
slave to priestcraft—teaching a woman that
she is most happy when most oblivious of
every instinct of her nature. But this new
agitation among the Mormon women them-
selves, who are at last awaking up to a full
realization of their grave situation, will do
more than anything that has transpired
lately to shake the priestcraft in Utah to its
utmost depths. Let them open their mouths
and testify to the wrongs they suffer, and
their lives will no longer be but a dreary
I show.”
As a “Mormon Woman” I beg a little
space to notice this paragraph.
What definition the “Pioneer” may give
to the word “intelligent” I am unable to
say. If it is that element existing in the
composition of some narrow minds, which
protrudes itself into public notice in the
form of the grossest misrepresentations,
meddling with affairs in which it has no in-
terest but to injure those concerned, but
little need be said. Yet if my idea of in-
telligence be correct, that it is a quality of
true understanding, something which is cal-
culated to create good for its possessors and
their fellow men, to establish Truth and
Virtue and aid in uprooting error and cor-
ruption, then the “Pioneer” has been grossly
deceived, and its “pleasure” is grounded on
a great misunderstanding. For the “in-
telligent women of Utah” have not taken
the stand which, it seems, the “Pioneer”
would be pleased to have them take. On
the contrary, the intelligent Mormon wo-
men comprehend more clearly to-day than
ever before how elevated is their position
as honored wives and mothers, and the
partners of good and noble men. As for
their hopes and affections being blighted,
there is no intelligent Mormon woman that
could not say with sincerity of heart that the
better she learns to understand the religion
she professes, the brighter and purer do her
hopes and affections become. And instead of
being oblivious of any instinct of her nature,
she has a fuller realization of her true rela-
tionship to God and the works of His crea-
tion, than is possessed by those whose un-
appreciated and senseless winnings over
her wrongs she can only despise, while she
pities the ignorance, willful though it may
be, of such as seek to crowd themselves out
of their proper sphere into one which they
will fail to be satisfied with, or hold with
honorable dignity, should they ever obtain
it in the illegitimate way they have adopted.
Truth.
----
﻿		MORMON WOMEN.
				—
EDITOR EXPONENT:
   Under the above heading I find the fol-
lowing in the San Francisco “Pioneer” of
July 4th:
   “We are pleased to see the intelligent
women of Utah coming to the front and de-
nouncing Polygamic life, and are giving the
lie to some former statements that these
women were happy under a system which
strikes at the root of womanhood, blighting
the affections and hopes, and making her a
slave to priestcraft—teaching a woman that
she is most happy when most oblivious of
every instinct of her nature. But this new
agitation among the Mormon women them-
selves, who are at last awaking up to a full
realization of their grave situation, will do
more than anything that has transpired
lately to shake the priestcraft in Utah to its
utmost depths. Let them open their mouths
and testify to the wrongs they suffer, and
their lives will no longer be but a dreary
I show.”
   As a “Mormon Woman” I beg a little
space to notico this paragraph.
   What definition the “Pioneer” may give
to the word “intelligent” I am unable to
say. If it is that element existing in the
composition of some narrow minds, which
protnules itself into public notice in the
form of the grossest misrepresentations,
meddling with affairs in which it has no in-
terest but to injure those concerned, but
little need be said. Yet if my idea of in-
telligence be correct, that it is a quality of
true understanding, something which is cal-
culated to create good for its possessors and
their fellow men, to establish Truth and
Virtue and aid in uprooting error and cor-
ruption, then the “Pioneer” has been grossly
deceived, and its “pleasure” is grounded on
a great misunderstanding. For the “in-
telligent women of Utah” have not taken
the stand which, it seems, the “Pioneer”
would be pleased to have them take. On
the contrary, the intelligent Mormon wo-
men comprehend more clearly to-day than
ever before how elevated is their position
as honored wives and mothers, and the
partners of good and noble men. As for
their hopes and affections being blighted,
there is no intelligent Mormon woman that
could not say with sincerity of heart that the
better she learns to understand the religion
she professes, the brighter and purer do her
hopes and affections become. And instead of
being oblivious of any instinct of her nature,
she has a fuller realization of her true rela-
tionship to God and the works of His crea-
tion, than is possessed by those whose un-
appreciated and senseless winnings over
her wrongs she can only despise, while she
pities the ignorance, willful though it may
be, of such as seek to crowd themselves out
of their proper sphere into one which they
will fail to be satisfied with, or hold with
honorable dignity, should they ever obtain
it in the illegitimate way they have adopted.
								TRUTH.


WOMAN’S VOICE.
			     —
  Under this heading we propose publishing
such communications, or extracts from them,
forwarded by ladies, as do not assume
the character of regular articles. Women
of Utah, speak for yourselves! 
  The following is from a private communi-
cation from an old friend, and a subscriber
to the EXPONENT.
  Seeing I am an old-fashioned piece of
goods I shall begin with an excuse. Can’t
you hear the miserable subterfuge—“I’ve


been to busy!” Bah! How I hate an ex- 
cuse! I very seldom believe the person who 
makes one, do you? I read somewhere, 
that “Excuses were lies,” and believe to 
some extent that it is true. The truth with
me is, I don’t like writing. The thought
of taking up a pen to write makes me shiver. 
How shall I get over this dislike? Can you 
tell me?	
  I like the EXPONENT so far very much; I
it tells of sound sense—which, you know, I I
like.	
   We “Mormon women” ought to write and 
tell the world—whether it is pleased to be-
lieve us or not—that we are not the poor, 
oppressed beings we are represented to be.  
I have lived in the great world, you know; 
I have lived here thirteen years, and I re- 
alize that I have not been oppressed here; 
but have been free to come, free to go, free 
to work or let it alone. I was not as free 
in England, nor in the States. I would not 
go to live in either place, or any where else
in preference to this free, wild, mountaineous 
country, with all its deficiencies.	
   Were I a ready writer I could illustrate 
some of the abuses thatsome women have
to put up with at the hands of the “lords of 
creation” in New York and London. In the 
latter place, when a girl of seventeen, I 
hired with a man and his wife to do house- 
work. I was not allowed to go out-side the
door, save once in six weeks from two in the 
afternoon until ten in the evening. When 
I did wrong I was reprimanded; and when I
I did right, the threat of sending me away 
without a character was kept as the sword 
hanging by a hair over my poor head. This 
kept me in subjection for three long years— 
the bitterest of my life. Yet my experience 
was nothing, compared with what many a I
wretched girl possessed of more meekness 
and less resolution than myself is compelled
to put up with, or starve, or do worse. In. 
New York, I went to get sewing to do, and
was treated shamefully by a man, or a being 
who styled himself such. Chicago was better 
to me. I liked that city the best of any I 
ever lived in. But there, men seemed to : 1
look upon woman as a mere plaything, to be
thrown away when they were tired of her. 
   Yet hear their cant and humbug about  
the “downtrodden women of Utah!”   O!  
but you know I hate writing!
				—			MARY.
  This comes from Goshen, dated June, 27:	
  I am glad that the ladies of Utah have 
the privilege of speaking for themselves. I 
have often wished that I might tell the na-  
tions of the earth they are deceived concern- 
ing us. And now, I will say, I am free;
that I know my friends around me are free; 
that the religion we have embraced makes 
us free, and gives us blessings and ad- 
vantages which are not enjoyed by women
elsewhere.						S. R.


﻿BOYS USING TOBACCO.	
				—
	A strong and sensible writer says a good
sharp thing and a true one, about boys who
use tobacco:
	It has utterly spoiled and utterly ruined
many thousands of boys. It tends to soften-
ing and weakening of the bones and the
whole nervous fluid. A boy who smokes
early and frequently, or in any way uses 
large quantities of tobacco, is never known 
to make a man of much energy, and gener-
ally lacks muscular and physical, as well as
mental power. We would particularly warn
boys who want to be anything in the world
to shun tobacco as a most baneful poison. It
injures the teeth, it produces an unhealthy
state of the throat and lungs, hurts the
stomach, and blasts the brain nerves.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿NOT ALL IN BRINGING UP.
				    —
		It isn’t all in bringing up,
		  Let folks say what they will;
		You silver-wash a pewter cup—
		  It will be pewter still.
		E’en he of old, wise Solomon,
		  Who said "train up a child,”
		If I mistake not, raised a son,
		Gay, rattle brained and wild.

		A man of mark, who fain would pass
		  For lord of sea and land,
		May have the training of an ass,
		  And bring him up full grand:
		May give him all the wealth of lore
		  Of college and of school,
		Yet after all make him no more
		  Than just a decent fool.

		Another, raised by penury
		  Upon her bitter bread,
		Whose road to knowledge is like that
		  The good, for heaven, must tread,
		Has got a spark of Nature’s light,
		  He’ll fan it to a flame.
		Till in its burning letters bright
		  The world may read his name.

		If it were all in bringing up,
		  In counsel and restraint,
		Some rascals had been honest men—
		  I'd been myself, a saint.
		Oh! ’tisn’t all in bringing up,
		  Let folks say what they will;
		Neglect may dim a silver cup—
		  It will be silver still.


MISCELLANEOUS.
			  ——
  AN INDIANA farmer, after trying to trap,
poison and shoot the rats that overrun his
premises, bought two goats and gave them
the range of yards and stables. Within a
week every rat emigrated and stayed away
until the goats were sold—nearly two years
afterwards—when they all came back with
all their friends. A second edition of goats
were procured, and since then not a rat has
been seen on the premises.

    BEAUTIFUL SENTENCE.—“I expect to
pass through this world but once. If, there-
fore, there is any kindness I can do to
any fellow-being, let me do it now. Let me
not defer nor neglect it, for I will not pass
this way again.” Most men live as if they
expected, perhaps, to come around again,
when they will do the kindness they neglect
to do during the present life. Concerned for
self, they fail to love their neighbors, and
distribute none of those sweet charities
which are to our fellow men as the flowers
of spring and the singing of birds. Let the
words of the Quaker stimulate us to do what
we have to do “now.” We will not travel
this way again.
  SAP IN PLANTS.—A Botanist says that
the sap in plants or trees goes up in certain
pipes in the wood or stalk, and when it gets
to the leaves, it turns about and goes back
toward the ground through other pipes in
the live portion of the bark. The sap that
goes up has a great deal of water in it, much
of which Is left with the leaves, so that the
sap which goes down in the bark carries
back to the ground but a comparatively
small quantity of water. Through the pores
of the leaves water is let off into the air.
The sap is not perfect until it has visited
the leaves and been touched by the air,
after which it goes to all portions of the
plant, down through the very roots, and
from it every part of the plant grows. The
new layer of wood which is made from the
inner bark in trees, every year, is formed
from some of this aired sap.
   A BIG CLOCK.—The large clock at the
English parliament house is the largest one
in the world. The four dials of this clock
are twenty-two feet in diameter. Every half
minute the point of the minute hand moves
nearly seven inches. The clock will go eight
and a half days, but only strikes for seven
[new column]
﻿and a half, thus indicating any neglect in
winding it up. The mere winding up of the
striking mechanism takes two hours. The
pendulum is fifteen feet long; the wheels are
of cast iron; the hour bell is eight feet high
and nine feet in diameter, weighing nearly
fifteen tons, and the hammer alone weighs
more than four hundred pounds. This clock
strikes the quarter hours, and by its strokes
the short-hand reporters in the parliament
chambers regulate their labors.  At every
stroke a new reporter takes the place of the
old one, while the first retires to write out
the notes that he has taken during the pre-
vious fifteen minutes.
  A “REPARABLE LOSS.”—The most re-
markable strike we have so far heard of is i
that of five hundred women in the north of
England and against the high price of butch-
er’s meat, potatoes and milk. A lower price
was fixed for those necessaries, and it was
resolved to burn every woman in effigy who
purchased at more than the strike rates.
One weak-minded sister exclaimed, “I must
have milk for my bairn.” “I have a bairn,”
retorted the strong-minded chairwoman,
Mrs. Hetherington, “and can make it some
flour that will answer the same purpose. If
we lose a bairn it is a reparable loss which
can be easily overcome. I propose that we
cease purchasing butcher’s meat, &c., until
the butchers, &c., reduce their prices in ac-
cordance with our terms.” The resolution
was carried with “great applause.”—“Ex-
change.”
  CRUSADE AGAINST WAR.—An eastern
paper says: Mrs. Julia Ward Howe has
crossed the Atlantic to enlist the active sup-
port of the women of England in a crusade
against war. The object of the proposed
crusade is a praiseworthy one, though the
plan is not clearly understood. Are women
to organize into bands of Maids of Saragossa,
and rush with dishevelled hair between con-
tending armies, or are they to moderate the
martial ardor of their husbands by gentle
persuasion to stay at home? The latter plan
would seem to have its disadvantages, for
in case of war between England and France,
if the English women should be successful
in inducing their male defenders to stay at
home, and the French women should not,
the benefits of a peace policy would be rather
one-sided.  It is not surprising that Mrs.
Howe has not met with much success among
the robust damsels of Albion, who have
heard more than they have seen of the evils
of war.  She should try Mexico.
   AN ICICLE TWO THOUSAND MILES LONG.
—According to a letter from St. Johns, N.
F., in the New York “Post,” the Arctic re-
gions have this year thrown off an ice spur
of an unprecedented magnitude, which is
drifting down into the Gulf Stream, and
chilling its tropical temperature. The
writer says that since last January enormous
fields of ice,sometimes 200 miles in breadth,
have been passing the shores of Newfound-
land in almost continuous streams. The
thickness of this field of ice is from twenty
to thirty feet. The distance betwen Baffin’s
Bay, where the ice fields are formed, and
the waters of the Gulf Stream, where the
masses are dissolved, is from 1,500 to 2,-
000 miles. It may be affirmed, without any
exaggeration, that a river of ice, varying
from 50 to 200 miles in breadth and 2,000
miles in length, has been for three months
pouring incessantly its contents into the
tepid waters of the Gulf Stream. Last
winter was fearfully severe, and the quantity
and thickness of the ice unprecedented.
The irruption of this immense mass of ice
into our latitude may account for the cold
and backwark season we then experienced.


﻿FACTS AND. FIGURES.
			—
  IOWA marble is of superior quality.
  CARRARA, Italy, yawns with 168 marble
querrics.
  KEY WEST sends pine-apples by the ship-
load to Baltimore.
  MORE poets flourish successfully in Austria
than in England.
  THERE are over 500,000 affiliated Masons
in the United States.
  PORTUGAL, in a hundred years, has not
quarreled with any power.
  FIVE nations are working this year to raise
flags on the North Pole.
  A DISCOVERY of emeralds has been made
on the Guinea coast of Africa.
  THE latest foreign labor news is to the
effect that 12,000 German miners have
struck.
  TIGER TAIL, a son of the famous Seminole
Chief of the same name, peddles pumpkins
at Key West.
  THE annual expense of protecting the six
thousand inhabitants of Arizona from the
Indians is $4,000,000.
  A NATURAL spring that will intoxicate,
situated near Kern River, Cab, is delighting
the Indians of that vicinity.
  NEW JERSEY raised by a local taxation,
last year, for school purposes, $2,375,000,
which was an average of $14 a pupil actually
attending school.
  THERE is said to be $25,000,000 invested
in silk manufacturies in this country, and
the productions of these manufactures sell
at $30,000,000.
  AN East Saginaw' pastor declines an ad-
dition of $200 to his salary on the ground
that it is more than he wants to do to collect
the salary that he already has.
  THERE are over 650,000 scholars inatteiul-
ance at the public schools in Illinois. Teach-
ers number over 20,000. School houses, log,
frame, brick and stone, 10,773. Expend-
itures for school purposes for the last year,
$7,000,000.
  ST. VINCENT, Fla., is an island of 7,000
acres, owned and occupied for the past three
years by Mr. Hatch, a gentleman of intelli-
gence and fortune, formerly Mayor of Cin-
cinnati, who chooses to lead here the life of
a hermit, solitary and alone, save with a
servant or two, and seeing few visitors.
  IMMIGRATION into all parts of the State is
large. The influx is now setting in in full
tide. Not less than 75,000 people will be
added to the population of Nebraska in the
year 1872, and in less than ten years a mil-
lion souls will occupy this magnificent region,
whose arable area is fifty per cent, larger
than that of Illinois.
  THE library of the University of Stras-
bourg now numbers 200,000 volumes. The
old library had. from 300,000 to 700,000
volumes, and was so loosely managed that
no catalogue was ever made of it, nor is
there now a leaf of it extant. Any man in
Strasbourg or the province, of Alsace may
draw books. The city, however, is attempt-
ing to found an opposition  library, and is
soliciting aid through Europe.
  SAMUAL A. HITCHCOCK, of Brimfield, has
just given $100,000 to Amherst College and
$50,000 to Phillips Academy, at Andover.
Each of these institutions has at a previous
time received $75,000 from Mr. Hitchcock.
At Andover he established the Hitchcock
professorship of Hebrew language and
literature, and at Amherst the professor-
ship of natural theology and geology, also
bearing his name, besides six scholarships.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


TASTE.
			   —	
    ﻿That fine, sensitive faculty which enables
us to perceive and enjoy the beautiful, ex-
cellent, or elegant, in nature and art, cannot
be too carefully cultivated. A person who
is entirely unacquainted with Nature, can-
not be a person of good taste, not knowing
whether the production of art resembles
Nature or not; and unless this knowledge is
possessed to some extent, no real satisfac-
tion can be received from the imitative arts.
A lively imagination, clear and distinct ap-
preciation of things, good sense, and the
Iove of virtue, delicacy and correctness are
some of the features to be gained, before
beauty, sublimity, harmony, sweetness and
all those characteristics which speak such
volumes of rapturous delight to the educated
eye and ear, can be received or appreciated.
It is said, and is undoubtedly correct in a
gereral sense, that the toilet of a lady be-
tokens her taste; that to dress simply and
without ostentation is a mark of modesty;
to wear many bright, glaring colors, a flaunt-
ing, red, yellow, or sky-blue hat covered
with ribbons, or as much jewelry as can be
loaded on, gives evidence of an uncultivated
mind and taste. A waist too small for the
natural proportions of the body is styled the
worst possible deformity, and must be the
workings of a narrow, unexpanding mind
and bad taste, if produced by sinning against
the laws of nature by tight lacing.


﻿ PRESIDENT GRANT is an L. L. D. Har-
vard conferred the parchment.


Z. C. M. I.

	  RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.

	We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
riety of our Patrons.
	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated
	SALT LAKE GLOVES.
Children's Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty,
	While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics
of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,
Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-
est possible figure.
				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup't.

LADIES !
	Go to Taylor & Cutler's for Dress Goods, No-
tions, etc. Also the Cheapest Store for Family Gro-
ceries in town. Call and see.

WEED SEWING MACHINES.

		  Stitch Alike on Both Sides.
The Lightest Running
		SHUTTLE MACHINE
					In the World.
  Sows Fine and Coarse. No Springs nor Cogs. No
taking apart to Oil or Clean it.
  Send for Circular to 97 Kimball Block, Salt Lake
City.							IRA PFOUTZ, Ag't.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.

	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
    At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,

	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

DR. W. H. GROVES,
						DENTIST,
	Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
			Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

LADIES' BAZAR.

			MRS. WILKINSON,
FASHIONABLE MILLINER AND DRESSMAKER.
  Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Millinery, Straw
Goods, and all kinds of fancy and Staple Dry Goods.
  Sole agent for the Territory for M’me Demorest’s
reliable paper patterns. Orders from the country so-
licited ; patterns sent by mail. Removed to the new
Establishment, 1st South St., next door west of Z. C.
M. I. Wholesale Dry Goods Department.

				JOHNSON'S

		HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES !

Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-

ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.

	BONESET PILLS.  Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.

	EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.

	CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.

	ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills. Price 50 cents.

	These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at

        	 ZION'S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,

Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.

	If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them.

  Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.

  AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.

From the Laboratory of 
						J. E. JOHNSON,
						 St. George, Utah.
[new column]


			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

			A UTAH LADIES' JOURNAL.

	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.

   They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them ; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.

   Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves ?  “ It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!"

   For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.

	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.

	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.

	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.

	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.

	WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah:

	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1 Copy one year, 	    $2.00	1 Copy six months, 	 $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months, 9.00

	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

  Address all communications .and subscriptions,
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


Woman's Exponent.
VOL. I.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1872.


﻿NEWS AND VIEWS.
		     
  GONE to rest—The “New York Standard.”
  TO LEARN the value of money—try to
borrow some.
  GRANTS wanted for everything, even for
the National head.
  IT is considered too revolting for soldiers
to shoot a woman, in Paris, and Cantinicer
Gugard, convicted of firing on Bishop Jural,
is to be guillotined.
  EDITH O’Gorman, lecturing on the
Sisters of Charity and Mercy, pronounces
them little better than prostitutes. She must
be crazed and is to be pitied.
  POLITICAL interests are looked after
eveywhere, and party feeling manifested,
even at the Peace Jubilee, where the French
and German bands were coldly civil to each-
other.
  “LIKE begets like.” Seventeen years
ago, a Judge, in Georgia, sentenced John
Dolton to be hung; and a few days ago the
same Judge performed the shine office for
John Dolton’s son.
  SOME enlightened women hold that the
Father designed for man to eat of the for-
bidden fruit; but seeing the consequences,
he had not fortitude to meet the requisition,
so his wife had to do it for him.
  JUAREZ is reported to have been a man
of much firmness, an able General and
politician, a faithful and energetic Presi-
dent; who won the hearts of all, both friends
and foes. Will his successor prove as true
and as beneficial to his country?
  A DELEGATE in the Wisconsin Demo
cratic convention, after struggling vainly in
opposition to the nomination of Greeley,
says, “When we come to die, next Nov-
ember, we shall wish we had not forsaken
the path of virtue.” Honest fellow!
  MRS. Livermore sensibly remarks that
she is in favor of the Republican party,
whether it gives the women Suffrage or not,
even if it does not recognize them at all; be-
cause it advocates all other good things,
and our cause will come in due time.
  MRS. Kellison, an Iowa preacher, recently
delivered a lecture, having for her text,
“Love divided into four parts; L for Love,
O for Obedience, V for Victory and E for
Eternity.” The text is decidedly novel, and,
doubtless, the discourse was elaborate and
entertaining.
  A PORTION of the jewels belonging to the
Empress Eugenie were sold at  auction, a
short time ago, in the rooms of Messrs.
Christie, Mason & Co. The amount realized
was upwards of $250,000 in gold. Nothing
for her—but wouldn’t half the sum make
some poor people rich!
  IT is reported that since the fiasco at
Baltimore, Mrs. E. Cady Stanton,: Mrs.
Laura De Force Gordon, Miss Anthony, and
nearly all the conspicious Women Suffragists
have concluded to support Grant and Wil-
son. Changes will occur, but they are not
always improvements.
  IN Iowa there is no provisions of the law
Which excludes women from holding any
office to which they may be elected. In
several Counties women are holding
elective offices. When the right of suffrage
[new column]
is granted to the women there, whata happy 
State Iowa will be!
  MISS J. F. Ripley has the honor of being
the first woman who has surpassed the men
in the contest of Greek scholarship; for
which she takes the first prize at the State
University of Missouri. This will be en-
couraging to the advocates of a liberal educa-
tion for women.
  GRATITUDE one of the happiest and most
noble attributes with which man has been
endowed, is finely evinced in the character
of the Liberal Democratic candidate for Vice-
President, B. Gratz Brown, in his speech at
New Haven, in which lie acknowledges
that he owes the honors and compliments
he receives as much if not more to his
“Alma mater” than to himself.
  PRIVATE Instructions, to little folks, and
home influences have long been allowed to
be best rendered by woman, and now her
capabilities assume a broader and higher
sphere of action. Mrs. Ellen Webster, the
first woman elected to a county office
in Kansas, has just taken the oath and
been qualified as Superintendent of public
instruction in Harvey County.
  IN March, 1871, an American woman,
Mrs. Emily Gould, opened, in Rome, at her
own expense and with the co-operation of
some of her generous lady-compatriots, a
free school for poor boys and girls. In which
are taught both Italian and English; geogra-
phy,arithmetic,history and the first elements
of the physical sciences. Here is wisdom
and a proper usage of time, means and in-
fluence
  A LADY in this City, over sixty years of
age, finds in the “Portage Co., (O.) Demo-
crat” “A Poetic Address” delivered atMan-
tua on the Fourth of July, 1815, at a celebra-
tion in which she participated, when eleven
years old; and so well does her memory
serve her that she repeats line after line of
the poem without glancing at the paper.
Fifty-seven years is quite a time for a simple
little poem to sleep in an active brain, and
then wake up when called upon, as fresh
and bright as it was when laid away.
  ONE of the most cruel and heartless
punishments that can be inflicted upon
child is to place it in a position where fear
of danger is sustained, whether real or imag-
inary. Don’t do it you who have the care
of youth. Mark the awful consequences
which followed such a transaction, not long
since, in Detroit. A four-year old boy was
left by his parents alone in the house,
though he screamed loudly and begged to
be taken with them, saying he was afraid of
bears and wolves. When they returned, it
was to find their boy insane, and it is feared
he will be a consummate idiot all his life.
  THE orthodox people of England, who
hoped the illness of the Prince of Wales
would cause a radical reform in his course
of life, are getting disheartened again. They
began to be encouraged from his saying in
a speech, that he hoped, by the aid of God
to be of use to his country. But the same
evening he went to see Toole in a dark
play, and laughed inconsiderately, and has
since been to Ascot and other races, and
shows every sign of goihg back into the
graceless fellow he used to be. It is a little
[new column]strange that England, with such a head as
Queen	Victoria, does not concede at once
and fully to the Woman Suffrage movement.
  IT IS now reported that Chinese archives,
having been researched, show that the
architects who designed and the engineers
who built the great wall were women. No
doubt but the statement is correct; but even
if it were not, women must have the credit
of being mothers to the great architects and
engineers which is quite as good. For true
women are more thankful, if possible, for
the glorious deeds enacted by their
noble sons than for any notable work
of their own hands. And they do not
desire that women should be credited with
every worthy action that is performed; it is
enough that no hero, however great, ever
existed without a mother. 
	"THE City of broken hearts," is the
original, romantic name which Mrs. Duni-
way gives to the "Mormon burying ground,"
of which she says: "The largest class of
occupants are 'first wives', who died in their
heroic efforts to become reconciled to the
wonderufl beauty of the practical workings
of the Mormon faith." How could she
have found that out? Even had she taken
the time to walk through the grave yard
and inspect the tombstones and head boards,
(which she doesn't say she did,) the "wicked
Mormons," are not in the habit of inserting
upon these simple monuments the cause of
death; no more than they tell what Brigham
Young does with all the property he takes 
from "apostate women, and their daughters."
  THE "Memphis Appeal" of July 2, con-
tains a striking letter written in March,
from Jackson, Miss., by Bennet Jones to
Dr. Dameron; in which the former coolly
and plainly asks the latter to send his (the
Doctor's) wife to him. He tells Dameron
among other things, that he and Mggie
(the Doctor's) wife to him. He tells Dameron,
among other things, that he and Maggie
(the Doctor's wife) love each other devoted-
ly, and that in the sight of God she belongs
to him. This letter was a portion ot the
testimony evinced in favor of Dameron,
who was acquitted in his trial at the Crim-
inal Court for shooting Jones, who, it also
appears had a wife living. A couple of
divorce cases might have prevented the
murder, but Dameron failed to see the
beauty of such proceedings and took the
next best and most popular way of getting
out of domestic difficulties.
  THE "Pioneer" pronounces the incident
relative to Mrs. Emily' Pitts Stevens and
her pistol, of very little importance, and
states that at the meeting at Platt's Hall,
where the occurence form which the ex-
citement was raised took place, ex-Assem-
blyman Meeker, without just cause, openly
reprimanded those who were earnest in
their applause of sentiments expresses, co-
inciding with their own views; even calling
out Mrs. Stevens name. For which insult,
at the close of the meeting the lady de-
manded an apology.  Meeker refused to
comply, whereupon, some on handed Mrs.
Stevens a small derringer, which she
thoughtlessly put into her pocket. She is
decidedly opposed to the use of fire-arms
and had no thought of using the derringer.
This is a better and more consistent story
than the oner told by California papers, soon
after the incident occurred.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


AN ADDRESS FROM THE YOUNG
			LADIES.
			    —
WRITTEN ON THE OCCASION OF A RETRENCHMENT
 ASSOCIATION PARTY, GIVEN ON THE TWENTY-
 FOURTH OF JULY, 1872, BEING THE TWENTY
 FIFTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE ENTRANCE OF
 THE PIONEERS INTO THE VALLEY OF THE GREAT
 SALT LAKE.	
		
  When ca led upon, in such a kindly way,
We, from our heart, a few good things can say:
'Tis good to be a Saint of God, and live  
In the pure light His loving mercies give; 
'Tis good to gather at a time like this,
And yield awhile to animated bliss;
'Tis good to mark the change which now appears,
Among the Saints in five and twenty years. 

They came to Utah—came with heart and mind
Giv’n to their God. and to His will resigned;
They settled here—’t has oft been sta ed how,
We know the difference ’tween then and now.
Good is the picture illustration paints
Of God's protection to His faithful Saints;
How, ’mid privations stern, and trying toil.
He blest their labors, blest the seed and soil.

  'Tis good for us to know the Gospel Truth,
Which brightly beams upon us in our youth;
And that our patients have that faith embraced, 
Which will unite the humble, pure and chaste;
And banish all who love, and revel in
The ways of vice, licentiousness and sin:
And it is good that we need not disguise,
The holy feelings which -such thing's despise.

  We may and do.despise the seeming man,
Who seeks to baffle the Almighty’s plan;
Which is to save, exalt and elevate.
Woman, with man, made noble, wise and great:
We cannot, in false friendship, seem to clothe
The dread we bear for deeds we justly loathe!
Yet with compassion’s voice would fain recall,
Vice’s wretched dupes who gaze, and yield and fall!

  We know that we are free—our freedom gives
That confidence, for which proud woman lives;
For we have pride, not that which fumes and flaunts
O’er fashion’s follies and her favorite haunts; 
But ignorance and fripp’ry thrown aside,
True dignity and virtue are our pride;
Our motto Honor, Truth our whole defense,
Our aim to perfect rich intelligence.

  Hence, we regard those who are Saints indeed,
A[-] having right our youthful steps to lead; 
And never to ought else may we submit,
Or in the least descend to follow it.
We feel that we are safe, while being led
By trusty followers of our lawful Head;
And, sooner wou'd we all unite to-day
With one GOOD MAN than one be led astray.

   Not lacking charity, would gladly see,
All mortals healthy, happy, blessed as we;.
Possessing, morals which alone can make 
The sweetest joys of which mankind partake:.
Grateful to God for His parental care,
Anxious that all the same good gifts should share;
And closely follow where our helmsman steers,
To lives Eternal in Celestial spheres.

   Ere we conclude, we wish to humbly pay,
A generous tribute to the passing day; 
Oft clothed in gladness may it reappear,
Still, to the Saints held sacred, sweet and dear,
And crown anew, with love and peace each year,
The home of every good, brave Pioneer;	
Their friends, their neighbors, kindred great and small,
Wives, sons and daughters, Heaven, bless them all!
				—
			    SONG.
				—
  The object of Retrenchment, for us, 1$:
	Not to sit us down in sadness,
	  With our faces grim and long;
	Not to chase the smile of gladness,
	  Not to hush the voice of song.
	Not to miss one pure, true pleasure,
	 Worthy space in heart or brain;
	Not to lose a single treasure—'
	 But a precious store td gain.

	Ladies, who o'er idle fashions,
	  Waste their time and strength and thought,
	Feeding vain and selfish passions,
	  'While their lives amount to nought;
	Know not of the untold sweetness
	   Wrought for those who cultivate,
	Powers of worth which in completeness,
	   Ev’ry virtue will create.	

	Scoffers laugh and mock their plainness.
	  Casting slurs and jeers thereat;
	Pause they for the worlds insaneness?
	  No, they have not time for that;
[new column]

	'Tis enough they fill their missions,
	   Fraught with noble womanhoos;
	Wake their souls and dispositions,
	   Sweet and rich and pure and good.

	Ot to think that f shion's bubbles,
	  From one care could set us free,
	Is, like courting causeless roubles,
	   Nonsense to the first degree:
	Let no honest mind be darkened,
	   Future scenes will shortly prove
	Who to wisdom's voice hath hearkened,
	  Aided every godlike move.


________________
	﻿F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
			  —
  The Young Ladies’ Retrenchment Assocl
ation of the Eleventh Ward, of this city,
held a highly creditable meeting on Thurs-
day, ‘July- 18th. After singing and prayer,
articles from the Bible, Book of Mormon
“Millennial Star” and other works were
read, by officers and members of the Associ-
ation, “Selfishness” was the subject chosen
at the meeting previous, to be spoken upon
Many animated and instructive remarks
were made, and rich hints given upon that
topicand others. The genuine spirit of
purity and freedom which pervaded the
meeting, seemed to render all present joy-
ous and happy. The manner in which those
meetings, held every Thursday afternoon,
are conducted and attended, is very com-
mendable, both to the President Mrs. Mary
Freeze, and the members of the Society.
				—
  Mrs. Amelia, M. Frodsham writes from
Ogden City July 20th, 1872: The Sisters
came over from Lynne and Marriott settle-
ments, both belonging to one precinct, and
asked of and were granted by Bro. F.D.
Richards, the privilege of holding a two
days' Conference of the F. R. Society, when
they issued invitations to some of the Ogden
Sisters. I, for one can testify  the two days'
meeting, and to me it is a testimony that
the formation of the Society is of God. 
	The Conference convened the first day,
July 16th, at Lynne; Sister Ann Becking-
ton, President of the joint Society of Lynne
and Marriott settlements, presiding. Sisters
present from Ogden, President Mrs. Harriet
Brown, Secretary Mrs. A. M. Frodsham,
Treasurer Miss Rosalthie Canfield, Sisters
Jane Richards, Maria Ballantyne, Eveline
Farley and others. Meeting opened with
singing, and prayer by Mrs. M. Ballantyne.
Minutes read by Mrs. Perry, Secretary.
President Mrs. Beckington spoke, welcom-
ing the Sisters from Ogden, and stating that
they had collected, in the Society $100 for
the Emigration Fund. During the forenoon
meeting, addresses were made by Sister
A. M. Frodsham, President H. Brown,
Sisters J. Richards and M. Ballantyne from
Ogden; and Sister Tracy, of Lynne. All
felt well and bore faithful testimonies to the
truth of the Latter-day work, and the good-
ness of God to His children. The meeting
closed with singing, and prayer by Mrs.
Tracy. 
  Met again at 2 p.m. Called to order;
singing; prayer by President Mrs. Becking-
ton; singing by the Scandinavian  Sisters in
their own tongue. 
	Elders F. D. Richards, Herricks and Farr
were expected at the meeting, but as they
did not arrive President Mrs. Beckington
called on the Sisters belonging to her Society
to speak. The Scandinavian Sisters bore
their testimonies, and instructing and en-
couraging remarks were made by Sister
Bingham and several others.  "The Spirit
of God like a fire is burning" was sung.
Other remarks followed, and the meeting
adjourned to meet to-morrow at 10 a.m., at
Marriott settlement. 
[new column]
	Dismissed with singing, and prayer by
President Mrs. Brown.
	At 10 a.m., July 17, Conference convened,
pursuant to adjournment, in the school
house at Marriott settlement; Sister Beck-
ington presiding.  Singing; prayer by Sister
Ballantyne; singing by the Scandinavian
Sisters in their own tongue; minutes read
and approved. Sisters Beckington, Ballan-
tyne and Frodsham made remarks. Miss
R. Canfield read a report of the Ogden
Society, from the EXPONENT, and after-
ward addressed the meeting.  She was fol-
lowed by Mrs. Jane Richards, Mrs Emily
Richards, Miss J. Richards and President
Mrs. Beckington.  After which the meeting
adjourned until 2 p.m.  Prayer by Mrs. 
Frodsham. 
	At 2 p.m., the Conference again con-
vened.  Meeting opened with singing;
prayer by Mrs. Hannah Baird; singing by
the Scandinavian Sisters.  Speakers: Sisters
Beckington, Baird and Cordon.
    At about 3 o'clock, Elder Richards arrived.
He stated that he had been detained by the
fire in Ogden.  He felt very much pleased
to see the deep interest manifested by the
Sisters in seeking to do good; they are not
sent abroad to the world, but have missions
at home which are great and responsible.
Sending for the poor is the beginning of
their redemption.
   Elder Harrison spoke a short time.
   It was then moved, seconded and carried
that Mrs. A. M. Frodsham send a report of
this Conference to the "EXPONENT."
  Conference adjourned "sine die."
  Benediction by Elder Marriott.
  The very interesting and beneficial, two 
days' meeting, of which the foregoing is a
brief  synopsis, was inaugerated and con-
ducted by Sisters Beckington, Tracy, Baird
and Parry, of Lynne and Marriott settle-
ments. 
			___
	The following is from Mrs. Maria Parkin-
son, of Wellsville, Cache County, under date
July 25th:
  This branch of the Female Relief Society
is in a very healthy condition.  After de-
ducting $102.05 for the relief of the poor for
the year, we have on hand $352.23. We have
also donated $50 to the P.E. Fund.  When
the fact that for the last six years we have
had the terrible plague of grasshoppers to
contend with is taken into consideration, we
think we have done well.  Our efforts have
been blessed; the poor have been comforted,
and the labors of our Bishop greatly relieved.
It is a labor of love on which our Father in
heaven smiles approvingly.


﻿PROVIDENCE MADE both tear and  laugh-
ter, and both for kind purposes; for .as laugh-
ter enables mirth and surprise to breathe
freely, so tears enable sorrow to vent Itself
patiently. Tears hinder sorrow from be-
coming despair and madness; and laughter
is one of the very highest privileges’of. rea-
son, being confined to the human species.


﻿“MADAM,” SAID a husband to his young
wife in a little altercation which will spring
up in the best regulated families, “when a
man,and his wife, have quarreled and .each
considers the other at fault, which of the
two ought to advance towards reconcilia-
tion?”  “The best natured, and wiser of
the two,” said the. wife, putting up her
mouth for a kiss which was given with
unction.


The Baroness Nathaniel de Rothschild is
an industrious and accomplished artist.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


SOME WOMEN imagine they look well in
anything, and consequently go about in the
dowdiest kind of style.  Arms out at the
elbows are endurable, but when it comes to
sour hair and toes out of stockings and shoes,
it is too much.


MY SISTER, LEONORA A. MORLEY.
			----
DEDICATED TO HER FRIENDS IN BRIGHAM
  CITY, WHERE SHE DEPARTED THIS LIFE,
  FEBRUARY 11, 1872.

  'Tis hard to part with those we dearly love,
But parting comes to all.
					   No purer tie-
No holier sympathy warms human breast,
Than that of loving sisterhood, where heart
To heart is joined and interwoven with
A long, well tested and unbroken chain
Of mutual confidence—a confidence
Unstirred by envy, jealousy, or breach
Of sacred trust: Where the broad stream of thought
Flows unabridg'd: where each can think aloud.
Such was the love inspiring confidence,
Strengthened as years accumulated with
My sister and myself. Ours was the sweet
Reciprocation where each sentiment
Found safe repository—safe as heaven's
Eternal archives.
					   But my sister's gone!
I feared—I felt—I knew she soon would go,
But when beside her bed I watch'd, and saw
The last faint breath which fed the spring of life
Exhaled, it seemed frail nature's tend'rest cord
Was rent asunder, and a crushing sense
Of loneliness, like solitude's deep shade,
In that unguarded moment made me feel
As though the lights of earth had all gone out,
And left me desolate.
					 I knew't was false—
I knew that many noble, loving ones,
And true, remained; but none can fi’l
The vacant place—it is impossible;
Th' endearing ties we hold as saints of God,
The ties of consanguinity, secured
By sacred cov'nants which the Priesthood bind
On earth, and 't is recorded in the heavens,
We shall perpetuate beyond the grave;
Eternal union with the cherished ones
Will crown the glory of immortal lives.
  True love may multiply its object mosts
Extensively without diminishing
Its strength, but love accepts no substitute.
   When the fond mother lays her darling down
In death's cold, silent sleep, though others may
Be added to her arms, the vacancy
Remains until the resurrection shall
Give back her child.
						My sister faithfully
Life's changeful battle waged—her life was full
Of years—her years were fill'd with usefulness:
Her trust was in the living God, who hears
And speaks as He was wont to hear and speak.
She loved the Gospel and exemplified
It in her life. Her heart knew no deceit,
Her lips ne'er moved with fulsome flattery,
Her tongue with guile. Other positions of
Responsibility, as well as those
Of wife and mother she has nobly filled.
Her sun went down in peace.  For her death had
No sting—the grave will have no victory—
Her noble spirit lives and dwells above.
  The casket rests—The pure component part,
The' eternal portion of the human form,
In life combined with the gross element,
Sleeps in the bosom of our mother Earth,
Secure from nature's changing processes—
Despite decomposition's complex skill.
  But the gross, earthly substance, that which is
Both tangible to mortal sight and touch—
Formed with affinities that downward tend
Strength'ning our hold on this our lower life,
Clinging to earth as like adheres to like
This, soon as life becomes extinct, by dint
Of one of nature's fundamental laws,
The law of restitution, has commenced,
And separates till all is disengaged—
Till every particle shall be restored
Back to its native element, to be
Transformed in infinite varieties
To new creations and in other forms—
Through every grade of life and being here,
From earth and herbage up to brute and man—
From land to land—from clime to clime transferred;
Leaving the pure unchanging element
( When all that is corruptible has been
Dissolved and passed away) to rest—to sleep
Until the glorious resurrection morn.
And then come forth in triumph from the tomb
And clothe the spirit with immortal bloom.
  Adieu my sister, we shall meet again,
And live on earth when Jesus Christ shall reign.
							 ELIZA R. SNOW





﻿


A BARBER is always ready to scrape an
acquaintance, and often cuts them too.


IT'S THE way with mites—there is not
one of them that does not think himself the
entire cheese.


A MISER grows rich by seeming poor; an
extravagent man grows poor by seeming
rich.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS
				—
 A WOMAN who attempts to carry out-
plans of system, order and economy, is con-
stantly liable to have them crossed, and her
expectations violated by the inexperience
or negligence of those about her. The busi-
ness of housekeeping consists of items so
small that for want of care and order, the
whole often becomes a confused mass, and
everything must, inevitably go wrong. Al-
though, at such times, an orderly house-
keeper is apt to be irritated and feel like
giving vent to her irritability in harsh, re-
proving words, a calm, decided spirit is the
best calculated to meet such difficulties, for
the restoration of complete discipline. Scold-
ing does not do much good, and a con-
tinuous stream of complaint and reproof is
generally met by sullen silence or imperti-
nence from a child or a domestic. Anger is
likely to prevent any resolution of future
amendment, or any regret for past misde-
meanor. A woman should regard her duties,
as dignified, important and difficult, and her
mind may be soothed and even elevated by
a sense of the far-reaching influence of her
example. If she feels that she is a cypher
and that it makes little difference how she
performs her duties, she has far less to
sustain her than if she feels the importance
of her station and the weight of her respon-
sibilities.
	FOR HOUSE PLANTS.—A good fertilizer is
made by dissolving one ounce of glue in one
gallon of water and use for moistening the
plants.
	TO CLEAN DECANTERS.—The best way to
clean decanters, after wine has stood in them
for some time, is to wash them out with a
little pearl-ash and warm water, adding, if
necessary, a spoonful or two of fresh slacked
lime.  A few very small cinders will facili-
tate the action of the fluid against the sides
of the vessel.
	FOR HOARSENESS.—Take the whites of
two eggs, beat them and add two spoonsful
of white sugar; grate in a little nutmeg and
then add a pint of luke-warm water. Stir
well and drink often. Repeat the prepara-
tion if necessary, and it is said to cure the
most obstinate case of hoarseness in a com-
paratively short time.
	WHITE of eggs for burns is now used ex-
tensively, and seems to be preferable to
collodion or cotton. Seven or eight success-
ive applications of this substance, sooths
pain; and it effectually excludes the air
from the burn.
	LEMON SPONGE.—Dissolve one ounce of
isinglass in a pint of boiling water; when
cold, strain it and add the juice of three
lemons, strained; two ounces of white sugar,
the rind of a lemon cut very thin; beat all
together and strain it.  When nearly cold,
add the whites of two eggs well beaten and
whisk it until it becomes of the consistency
of sponge; wet a mould and put in the
sponge. It should be partly settled before
the whisking is commenced, or it will take
longer to do.
	RAISED CAKE WITHOUT EGGS.—Stir to-
gether a large coffee cupful of light brown
or white sugar and half a cupful of butter;
add half a pint of sweet milk arid half a pint
of warm water; stir in flour enough to make
a thick batter and half a cupful of yeast; set
it to rise over night and in the morning stir
in a cupful of chopped raisins or currants,
and a teaspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves
and nutmeg. Put into baking pans; let it
rise until perfectly light, and then bake
slowly.


ONE WAY LIFE IS BLIGHTED.
			—
	A part of the misery in the world
arises from persons, not understanding each
other; sometimes from selfish indifference
on the subject, sometimes from thinking
that to do so is petty and puerile. Two
people, for instance, are thrown into inti-
mate daily relations. One understands no
suffering that is not purely physical. If he
is not hungry, if he is not thirsty, if he is
not cold, if he has a roof over his head, if he
is not bothered,  whether-necessarily. or
otherwise his life is rounded off. To shed 
a tear for lack of sympathy, or appreciation,
or love, after that is to him lunacy, and to
be treated as such, with a hard, Gradgrind
non-recognition worthy of such a creed.
Now, imagine a sensitive nature, delicately
susceptible to the “little things”—miscalled
so—which make up our lives, grieving over
rough or indifferent words, where tender 
recognition should have come at the right
moment, like medicine—a tenderness which
costs nothing, perhaps only a simple word
or caress, or look, even; hungering day after
day for something besides the hard practi-
calities of life—imagine such a person keep-
ing back as far as possible the unshed tears,
conscientiously, nevertheless, doing duty—
labor—day after day, week after week,
month after month, with a heavy heart; and
the other eating; sleeping, drinking, as in-
different to the suffering caused as if life
and loyalty were fulfilled by these  latter
conditions.
	It is very poor comfort to answer that dif-
fering natures have differing limitations;
just as one vessel may hold a gallon and
another a pint, and each be useful in its
way. Would it not be well for this stolid
nature, voluntarily choosing such relation-
ship, to ask the question whether there may
not be real suffering in these cases, though
he himself “Never felt so, and therefore
can’t understand it?” Is it not duty, as
well as wisdom, in such juxtaposition, to
make an effort to “understand it,” and not
coolly to deny its existence, or pronounce it 
a sham, because he has only one nerve
sensitive to pain or pleasure where the
other has a hundred?
	It is pitiful to think how, for the want of
this, some natures, like prisoned birds, beat
themselves against the bars of a relentless
fate, till, bruised and maimed, they drop, at
least for the timebeing, into a hopeless des-
pair, their songs stifled, their wings clipped,
and darkness and silence reigning, where
brightness and music might so easily have
come.	
	Ali, it is blessed that in another world
there will be no limitations. Else how could
Heaven be, with natures one half paralyzed,
as here, for want of Space to expand—chilled,
stunted, frowned upon, denounced, for lack
of that charity without which all else is
comparatively valueless?
	“I never felt so; it is all nonsense.” I
neVer yet saw those cruel words in-
scribed on a tombstone as the cause of death.


ONE THING brings upanother, especially if
the first thing is an emetic.


IF YOU want to test the ingenious tortures
of the inquisition, place a pretty girl in the
house with a lot of old spinsters to live. If
they do not get her on the rack, within a
month, it will be an exceptional case.


36				WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

	LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1.  Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
  Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT
								    Salt Lake City, Utah.

	SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 1, 1872


﻿SPLINTERS.

	London has four thousand miles of streets.
.........Harvesting is about over in Virginia...
Twenty ocean steamships now ply between
New Orleans and Europe......On the first
day of July, the women of Illinois were
made eligible to hold appointive offices in
that State.....The Press Association in Lon-
don are disputing as to which first sent to
America the news of the result of the late
boating contest......The strikers in New
York have cut down the building going on
there nearly one-half, as compared with last
year......The Woman Suffragists of Missouri
are a unit for Grant and Wilson........A wood-
en water pipe factory is to be started in
Salem.......The Caledonian Society in Lon-
don gets up fancy balls in which some of
the guests attire themselves to represent
the ancient Picts and Scots......Gen. Grant
has placed in office twenty-three blood rela-
tives and eighteen who are relatives by
marriage......The woman movement has not
sensibly modified the social atmosphere of
St. Louis.......General Porter will shortly
make public a list of Democrats who are
going to stump for Grant......A Catacazy
pamphlet is published at Long Branch, in
which the ex-Minister endeavors to vindi-
cate himself from charges brought against
him by Sectretry Fish, and says he was not
dismissed from his position, but relieved at
his own request........The yacht “Josephine”
recently capsized in a gale, off Bedhoes’
Island, and sank; passengers and crew were
saved.........A Boston special has not the
slightest doubt that General Banks has de-
termined to abandon the administration
and array himself on the side of the Democ-
racy.......The first success of the Woman
Suffrage movement in England is said to
be the result of a surprise, being earned
through Parliament before conservative
people got their eyes open......A writer
from St. Louis says, that city confidently
expects to become the capital of the United
States and to supersede Boston as the hub
of the universe.......Ladies are to be admitted
to the Young Men’s Christian Union, of
Chicago, and the name is to be changed to
the Christian Union.....Ladies in square
cut bodices are not admitted to Queen Vic-
toria’s drawing rooms......The Board of Vis-
itors, at West Point, in their annual report,
animadvert severely upon many things
about the academy.....Six Chinamen were
killed and two others severely wounded, a
few days since, by the explosion of a blast,
on the new road between Carson and Reno.
........An extensive coal bed is being de-
veloped on Reynolds’ Creek, near Cabbing-
ton’s, Idaho.......It is reported that A. T.
Stewart has given $30,000 to aid in the
election of Greeley.......At an influential
meeting of English Catholics, in London,
the action against the Pope, of the Italian
Government, and the new German law pro-
scribing the Jesuits, were condemned.......A
school house in Copenhagen, Denmark, is
furnished for one thousand children......One
of the rumors concerning the shooting of
McMullin is, that it grew out of some diffi-
culty in the Moyamensing Association.......
A number of Roman coins have recently
been found in Wales.....For a poem of 1,-
500 lines, the “Overland Monthly” pays
Joaquin Miller $2,000.......Romeo, the big
elephant, died lately from the effects of an
operation to cure his diseased leg......Nearly
200 cases of sunstroke occurred in one day
of July, in New York, of which sixty were
fatal...Two Japanese youngsters are being
educated at Forest Grove university, Oregon.
......The “Lady Elgin” is the name of a
neat little journal published by the ladies of
[new column]
the Elgin Watch manufactory........A $44,-
000 Court house is to be erected this season
at Modesta......The question of the succes-
sion to the Turkish throne, still creates
much excitement in Turkey.......A Salem,
Massachusetts paper says, General Grant’s
greatest fault is that he stands in the way of
so many candidates to the Presidency......
The Gerke vineyard in Tahama County,
California, covers an area of 150 acres, all in
a full state of cultivation.......Mr. M. G. Up-
ton, leading editor of the “Alta California”
for ten years, has retired, and Mr. Frank
Soule succeeds him.......Fans made of the
scales of fish have been introduced and will,
doubtless, soon be very popular......Billy
Edwards, the light-weight champion, and
Batt Mullins, an English bruiser, have been
matched for $1,000 a side and the light-
weight championship of America......A cor-
respondent of the Washinton “Patriot” says
that the title of L. L. D. bestowed on Mr.
Grant means “Lover of Large Donations.....
The printers’ strike in Milwaukee created
greater excitement than any event since
the Chicago conflagration......A patent for
ear, cheek and chin muffs has been granted
to William Powellware, of New York.


﻿FACTS.
			    —
	A great many people who visit Salt Lake
City and remain over night, or a couple of days
and nights, go away imagining themselves
tolerably well informed with regard to affairs
in Utah. An account of a visit to Salt Lake
and what was learned, appears in some news-
paper; and after reading it, no one need be in
doubt as to what sort of person or persons the
writers have been entertained by while here; if
there appears a shadow of truth in the article.
Once in a while an humble visitant sees only
good in us, and illustrates the Mormons as be-
ing all happy, all virtuous, intelligent, temper-
ate, moral and industrious. This, however, is
rarely the case, as we are most likely to be
misjudged in a less pleasant style.  Even those
who wish to be unprejudiced, and treat with
candor what they are led to observe, have their
eyes blinded and their minds darkened concern-
ing Utah and the Mormons, and represent un-
truths which they themselves may believe to
be correct.
	The Mormons do not claim to  have
reached a standard of perfection yet. They do
not assume to have overcome the world, its
evils, temptations and sufferings. They never
insinuate that there are no bad people among
them; no inebriates, liars, thieves, fools, scound-
rels and hypocrites. They are ever ready to
confess that there are numbers, professing to be
Latter-day Saints, whom his Satanic majesty
might blush to acknowledge as his relatives.
To say they are all contented would not be
true; that none in Polygamy find it a cross
would be false. But that as a people, and mak-
ing the statement in a general sense, the Mor-
mons are the most temperate, industrious,
chaste and generous in their desires and


practices, and, in consequence of this, the most
felicitous in their everyday life, of any class of
people extant, is one principle to which they
adhere. And one proof of the efficacy of the
basis upon which this faith is built, is evinced
by the spirit manifested in the reports of meet-
ings held by women outside and inside of Mor-
mondom. Minutes of meetings held in San Fran-
cisco and other places, show that the women
are dissatisfied with their present position and
wish to burst the bonds of tyranny in which
they consider themselves bound. While min-
utes of those held in Utah speak of peace, good-
will, satisfaction and thankfulness for the great
blessings with which the majority of the Mormon
women consider themselves surrounded. And
yet, these very women who are so anxious to
free themselves, misrepresent the women of
Utah as “broken-hearted,down-trodden, misera-
ble creatures,” whom they imagine have no
sense or spirit.
	If their position is happier for them than
ours would be, we are willing that they should
maintain it, and improve it as fast and as
much as possible. We have no thought of ex-
changing with them, or drawing over to their
views and opinions; for while in the possession
of our senses, we prize our freedom too highly
to yield it so unprofitably; and only regret the
waste of sympathy lavished upon us, who
neither need nor appreciate it.


﻿   WHY WOMEN SHOULD VOTE.

	While many women care nothing about the
ballot or politics, and would avert the trouble
of voting were the right granted to them with-
out their asking for it; others have formed
themselves into serried bodies of contending,
pugnacious clamorers, whose vociferations are
difficult to be traced or understood. Yet it is
supposable that they think, by the purveyance
of the power to vote for those they believe most
worthy and best calculated to be placed as dic-
tators and rulers over the people, they should
be able to render that purgation to the world
which is so manifestly necessary.
	But were that power which they so enthusi-
asticly claim the right to possess, bestowed up-
on them, how many would be truly efficient to
wield it in the proper channel? Not that wo-
men have less than men of the natural endow-
ments requsite for forming a clear and irrepre-
hensible judgment; but they have not culti-
vated those faculties. Their attention has been
given to other things; and they are, therefore,
unqualified, the majority of them, to act wisely
in the capacity they so earnestly seek.
	That men abuse the powers they hold, is not
an evidence that women would not use those
powers in an empirical manner if permitted to
use them at all. The fact that the motives of
women are purer, their sentiments more re-
fined and elevated than those of men, should be
sufficient testimony that the right of suffrage
ought to be conceded to them. Not that they
may teach men wisdom by their superior intel-
ligence, but that they may exert their more
beneficient and chaste influences in endeavor-
ing to purify the social atmosphere.


﻿IT is believed that Texas alone, will
within a comparatively few years produce
a larger quantity of the great agricultural
staples than are now produced in all the
other States of the Union.


﻿Study contentment. In these days of in-
ordinate greed and self-indulgence, keep
down the accursed spirit of grasping. What
they don’t have makes thousands wretched.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	IMPROVEMENTS in our City and harvesting
in its surroundings are visible everywhere.

	AN ADDRESS “in behalf of the twenty-four
young ladies” and an interesting communica-
tion from St. George, both contributed by
“Flora,” are unavoidably held over, as are also
several other articles and correspondence.

THE LADIES’ Retrenchment Association Ball,
given on the evening of the Twenty-fourth of
July, in the Thirteenth Ward assembly rooms,
was a success. After paying all the incidental
expenses, the Committee found they had a
small surplus of $22.00—which they deposited
in the P. E. Fund.

	WHOSE IS IT?—A young lady wishes to make
enquiry through the “EXPONENT,” whether
the owner of a pretty gray and white, half-
grown kitten, that followed her from some
house on Second East street, early on the
morning of the 25th of July, would like to
ascertain its whereabouts. Information con-
cerning it may be obtained at Bishop L. D.
Young’s, 18th Ward.

 -     THE PAST two weeks has been a period
fraught with care and sorrow to many in differ-
ent parts of the City. Numerous accidents have
occurred, many of them of a very serious
nature, and some fatal. Quite a number of
deaths from sickness are also reported. To the
exceedingly dry and hot weather which has
been experienced may be accorded much of the
cause for ill health which has been and is still
complained of.

	THROUGH THE courtesy of Bishop L. D.
Young, we have had the pleasure of perusing
an interesting letter from Brother Edward
Stevenson, Missionary to the United States,
written at Polk City, Iowa. The writer repre-
sents himself and Elder Porter as enjoying
their Missionary labors, being favorbly received
in that portion of the country. His letter,
directed to Bishop Young, is addressed, within,
to “Elder L. D. Young, and the Home Mission-
ary Staff;” and he cordially greets them all.

	THE ORGANIZATION of a physiological class,
which took place on the afternoon of Thursday,
July 25th, under the supervision of Mrs. Sarah
Kimball; in the 15th Ward F. R. Society hall,
in this City, promises to be an opening for the
pursuit of much valuable information and con-
sequent good results for our ladles. There is
scarcely any, perhaps no other branch of educa-
tion which can be made so practically and in-
dividually useful, especially to women, as the
study of physiology. Yet it has heretofore
been sadly neglected; and even ridiculed by
many unthinking people.

	THOSE NAMES presented to the public as can-
didates for the various offices to be filled at the
coming election, have, without doubt been well
canvassed and considered by those who are de-
sirous of participating in the electoral enact-
ments. Ladies, as well as gentlemen should
understand the importance attached to giving
support to a candidate to any office, by which
the whole or a portion of the community is to
be wronged or benefitted. To be sure we are
voting to sustain good officers, is the only way
wo can know we are not voting to sustain bad
ones.

	ALL INNOCENT attempts at home progress
and self improvement should be generously
sustained and encouraged. Yet, care must be
taken, that charity does not overreach its legit-
imate limits and pronounce acquirements of
thought and manner of gesticulation good when
they are really crude, or excellent while only
[new column]
moderate. The performance of the young folks
at the theatre last evening was, for the most
part very well executed; the haste manifested
throughout the entire presentation of the drama,
being excusable. The duet by the young flut-
ists and the song, “Dolly Varden” were very
happily rendered.


﻿A WOMAN'S VIEWS.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	There appeared an article in the “Deseret
News” of July 10th, on the seduction of a
Miss Hardy by Wm. L. Davis, with com-
ments by a writer in the “New York
Standard.”  The writer says that Miss
Hardy was as bad as her seducer, and if
taken before a jury of women would be pro-
nounced the worst of the two. I, a woman,
would solemnly decry such an unworthy
statement. I am not a young woman; I
have traveled considerably and found the
nature of woman much the same in all
places where I have been. That woman
desires honorable marriage is true; but se-
duction, never! She never wishes her own
downfall; it would be contrary to all reason.
	Man has asserted his superiority and right
to rule; woman has received this idea, and
believed him most religiously. Is this
wrong? Woman sets up a shrine and
places some man there as the Deity, often
to her own sorrow. That women often fall
is sadly true; and that when they have
fallen, they often become utterly reckless is
also a truth. But are they the ones most to
blame? I think not. I know some men
try to destroy young girls; and that when
one of them succeeds he glories in the de-
struction he has wrought and taunts his
his victim with her folly, and spreads
her darkened name far and wide leaving
her nothing but degredation for the
rest of her miserable life. If she escapes
uncontaminated, what then? She and the
Lord only know of the villain’s damning
purposes!
	Can the writer in the “Standard” deny
these facts? I know he cannot. And if I
read his nature aright, as exhibited in his
article, he is not an innocent man—or he
would never libel his mother’s sex. Surely
my judgment is just, for by his own words
have I judged him.
	If Miss Hardy was placed before a jury of
sensible women what would be their sen-
tence? I do not hesitate to say that the de-
stroyer would have been shot dead instead
of only wounded in the hip; for they would
have sorrowed over the downfall of a sister
and striven to reclaim her. Do not think so
meanly of woman as to believe she does not
feel the shame that is brought on her by
the sins of her sister woman. It is as a stab
with a sharp knife. A man can never know
the pain.
	The “Standard” says there would be a fine
time if all the fathers of the miserable be-
ings that ply their horrible trade in New
York would shoot down their visitors.  I
think it would be a great blessing if all the
pure fathers would follow the example of
Mr. Hardy. Let me tell the “Standard”
that one.very fruitful cause of evil in wo-
men is in the evil their fathers have com-
mitted before them. You cannot gather
good fruit from a corrupt tree.
	GRANTSVILLE.				MARY.


﻿AN INCIDENT.
				—
		"Teach them correct principles,
	And they will govern themselves.”

	We give the following little incident as
it was told to us by a young teacher, con-
sidering the illustration worthy of notice to


many mothers as well as teachers of the
young:
	“While attending to the more advanced
classes, I gave the small children liberty to
play a portion of the time in the yard sur-
rounding the school house. One day a little
girl left her play and came in to tell me a
very pitiful story. Said she:
	“ ‘Neils has found two bright, pretty
shells, where we were playing, and has
given them both to Hannah, and they won’t
let me have one of them; mustn’t they?’
	“ ‘Did you ask Hannah if she would
please to let you have one of them?’ I
asked.
	“ ‘I am going to say that to her now,’
said Maggie; and away she ran, but presently
returned again with a sorrowful face, and
the sad tidings:
	“ ‘She won’t let me have it, Miss ——,’
	“ ‘Well, I’ll tell you what, Maggie,’ I re-
sponded; ‘put your arms around Hannah’s
neck, kiss her, and say, ‘Hannah, won’t
you let your dear little class-mate have one
of those shells?’
	“Maggie scampered away again, but was
back in a moment, this time holding the
shell up triumphantly, and exclaiming.
“See! school-ma’am, isn’t it pretty?”
	“It was pretty and I said so, and the glad
little creature was off to her play again,
smiling and singing as hapily as ever; and
she and Hannah have been the best of
friends ever since.
	“I have inveriably found it the best way
to let the little ones settle their own diffi-
culties, if they can reasonably; and I never
interfere, unless highly necessary,
more than to advise.”
	The same teacher remarks that one day
she praised a bright, clean little face and
smoothly combed head, and told the owner
she wanted a kiss from such a tidy, sweet,
little boy, whenever he came to school in
the morning; and that afterwards she was
never troubled with dirty faces or un-
combed heads; or if one did happen to make
its appearance occasionally, all  the reproof
necessary was for her to say “I have no
kiss for you to-day.” That was better than
scolding.


﻿KIND WORDS.
				—
	The Utah “Pomologist" says, in the last
number to hand:
	THE WOMEN'S EXPONENT.—No’s 1 and
2 are before us, and we give it a hearty
welcome. Its editorials are plain, sound and
logical, and its selections pithy, newsy and
well chosen. The character, object and aim
of the EXPONENT is widely different from
that of the political, strong-minded wo-
man’s rights journals of the day. Every
family in Utah should give it support. Long
may it wave, an exponent of the sentiments
and feelings of the many good women of
Utah.	
	And the Council Bluffs “Record and
Farmer” has this in regard to our little
journal:
	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.—The above is the
title of a new semi-monthly publication, in
octavo form, now being published at Salt
Lake City, Utah, by ladies of Mormon faith,
in that Territory, who, in their Prospectus
for the paper, say: “It is better to repre-
sent ourselves than to be misrepresented by
others.” And it is to this end they have
begun the publication of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, a journal neat in typographical
appearance and replete with reading matter
of interest. Success to the enterprize of the
ladies.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ABOUT WOMEN.
				   —
	A Georgia lady has woven a balmoral out
of the hair of a rabbit 
	DOUGLASS Jerrold said; “Eve ate the
apple that she might indulge in dress”.
	MRS. DR. Tarr takes the place of her hus-
band, recently deceased, as editor of the
Denton (Md.) “Journal.”
	A BUFFALO woman has raised  $2,500
worth of strawberries, this year, from two
acres of ground.
	MRS. Tupper of Des Moines has been
made professor of apiarian science in the
Iowa Agricultural College.
	A YOUNG lady in Ohio, Maggie Reid by
name, has distinguished herself as a model
farmer.  There is some sense in that.
	IN Indiana women plow, plant, hoe and
harvest, preach and chop their own wood.
What do the men busy themselves with?
	THE Michigan State Woman Suffrage
Association has raised six hundred dollars,
and its Secretary, Mrs. M. Victor, is in the
field as a lecturer.
	MISS Foley, an American sculptor at Rome
has been about the most successful artist in
the Holy City, during the past season. Most
of her work has gone to England.
	A TENNESSEE girl broke an arm on the
eve of her wedding day, but pluckily went 
through the ceremony with her arm in a
sling at the appointed hour.
	MISS Eliza Hete, of Cumberland, Md., 23
years of age, who lost the power of speech
five years since by the effects of a cold, and
had tried the best medical skill in vain,
suddenly found her voice restored Sunday
while humming a hymn tune sung by the
choir at the service.
	MRS. Somerville, the well-known author-
ess of the “Connection of Physical Sciences.”
now in her ninety-second year, was present
and saw the late eruption of Vesuvius.
	A CALIFORNIA paper reports that a hotel
chamber-maid laid aside her broom a few
days ago, and calling for a settlement, told
her employer she had been dabbling in
stocks for a year or more, and had something
more than $200,000 as the result.
	A GENTLEMAN, recently married in
Chicago, presented his bride at the wedding
with the original transcript of one of the
first dispatches ever sent over the first tele-
graph line, from Baltimore to Washington.
It was the announcement to the lady’s
grandmother of her birth, and read, “Only
a girl.”
	THE annual commencement of Wesleyan
Female College, Wilmington, took place on
June 20. Nine young ladies were gradu-
ated, among whom only Miss Pickles, Miss
Huntzinger, and Miss Housten took the full
collegiate course. The Baccalaureate, by
President Wilson, was a frank and honest
production, and very much in keeping with
the circumstances. The degree of A. M.
was conferred in course upon Miss Walters,
of Media, and Miss Galliner, of Philadel-
phia.
	THE Philadelphia Board of Education
have lately had under consideration a mo-
tion to strike out of their by-laws the rule that,
“no female teacher shall be elected to the
position of principal to a male grammar
school.” It was argued that a woman who
had the learning, strength and capacity to
teach, is as capable of filling this position as
a man, and that this is proved by the fact that
they do fill satisfactorily most, if not all the
subordinate places as teachers and assistant
teachers.


FLOWERS BY THE WAYSIDE.
				—
	Truth needs no flower of speech. 
	True dignity never descends to a mean
action.
	Sensitive hearts may suffer most, but the
wisest are the happiest.
	Kind words are like delicious perfumes;
generous actions like a rich and wholesome
repast.
	As iron is most strongly united by the
fiercest flame, so the firmest friendship is
often formed in mutual adversity.
	Make your friends well pleased with
themselves, and you need have no fears but
they will feel kindly toward you.
	Politeness never calls for a sacrifice of a
single principle of truth, sincerity or honor;
but grows out of the purest benevolence.
	A tried and proved character for truth,
honor and honesty, is the best capital in the
long run, and gives the largest interest.
	Professions of propriety may win the
flattery of the unwary, but the friendship of
the wise is only gained by the practice of
principles.
	To “make the best of it” is one way of
going through the world; to “make the
worst of it” is another. The latter course
is working hard for poor pay.
	The blossom cannot tell what becomes of
its odor, nor man what becomes of his in-
fluence and examples, as they roll away be-
yond his ken, on their perilous mission.
	“Who noble ends by noble means obtains,
or failing smiles in exile or in chains, like
good Aurelius let him reign, or bleed like
Socrates, that man is GREAT INDEED.”
	The external misfortunes of life, disap-
pointments, poverty and sickness, are light
in comparison to those inward distresses of
mind occasioned by folly, passion and
guilt.
	When upon rational and sober enquiry
we have established our principles, let us
not suffer them to be shaken by the scoffs
of the licentious or the cavils of the scepti-
cal.
	Memory presides over the past, action
over the present. The first is a rich temple
hung with glorious trophies, and lined with
tombs; the other should have no shrine but
duty.
	Recreation is to the mind what whetting is
to the scythe—it sharpens the edge, which
would otherwise grow dull and blunt; but
constant whetting wears the edge entirely
away.
	To tell your own secrets is generally folly,
but the folly is without guilt; to communi-
cate those with which we are entrusted is
always treachery, for the most part com-
bined with folly.
The only way to meet affliction is to pass
through it solemnly, slowly, with humanity
and faith, as the Israelites passed through
the sea. Then its very waves of misery
will divide, and become to us a wall on the
right side and on the left, until the gulf
narrows before our eyes, and we land safe
on the opposite shore.
	Flowers are the delight of childhood and
a pleasure in old age. They typify all that
is beautiful in sentiment, and the language
they express is emblematical of the tenderest
thoughts and feelings of men. Romance and
poetry are blended with their history. How
many a faded violet there has been and is
now, yellow and discolored with age, whose
withered leaves tell the story of a human
heart more eloquently than human language
can express!


HOW TO GET AN ORCHARD.
			 	     —
	After selecting the ground for an orchard;
go to work and dig and haul the stone and
stumps from it. Plough deep and level the
land off, and you are ready for your fence.
Put on a good, substantial fence, that will
not admit any creatures only by the way of
the gate or bars, and always keep the fence
in good repair, and suffer no cattle to enter
the enclosure, only for the purpose of labor.
This fence built you will plough your ground
again, and harrow and work in manure to
your liking. Sow your ground and seed
down the same. Pick up all the stones and
sticks that lie on top of the ground, and
take them away so that it will leave a
smooth surface.
	Select the best trees you can find; those
that are young, straight and sound. When
you take them up be careful and do not
break any of the roots, for they have none
to part with. When set they want to be so
near each other that they will shade the
ground well. When it is necessary to cut
limbs, cut them when small. Let the lower
limbs be so high from the ground that a tall
man can pass under them and not hit his
beaver. When you prune, be careful and
let no two limbs in the top chafe each other;
cut off one of the two.
	Now for the management of the ground.
You must keep all ploughs and hogs’ snouts
out of the surface of the ground of your
orchard. I know most every one says (and
practices) ploughing, sowing, mowing, and
hauling crops out of their orchard, but I say
it is a bad practice. Let the crop of grass go
back into the ground every year, and that
will keep the ground mellow and rich, and
will protect the roots of the trees from the
droughts of the season and the cold chills of
the fall and spring, and also help to keep
them warm, rugged, and healthy. By so
doing, they will bear well and live long.
You want your ground in a condition that
will bear thirty or forty hundreds to the acre.
[?—Ed.]	Just before you gather your ap-
ples, you can cut the grass down and spread
it, or you can roll it down, just as you please,
so that it will be smooth to pick up your ap-
ples. If you think more nutriment to the
trees is wanted, you can haul and spread
manure on the ground, but do not allow the
surface of your orchard soil to be broken, or
any crops to be taken from it.
	If you should want a wash for your trees
at any time, first scrape the trunks, and
then put on fish oil. This is the best wash
that can be found.
	Our orchards are all dying out, and what
is the cause? It is owing to their treat-
ment, as I have before said; ploughing up
and cutting off the roots, exposing them to
sudden hard droughts and severe frosts, and
robbing them of nutriment which tends to
impoverish and disorder them, and brings
on decay and short life. Feed and clothe
the trees well, and keep them warm, and
you will do this by not breaking the surface
of the soil or taking the foliage away.—
"Maine Famer."


GOOD ADVICE.—Don’t be discouraged if
occasionally you slip down by the way, and
others tread on you a little. In other words,
don’t let a failure or two dishearten you; ac-
cidents will happen, miscalculations will
sometimes be made, things will turn out
different to our expectations, and we may
be sufferers. It is worth while to remember
that fortune is like the skies of April, some-
times cloudy, and sometimes clear and
favorable.


﻿Olive Logan’s new lecture for the coming
season is on “Successful People.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


LITTLE MARY'S WISH.
					—
"I have seen the first robin of spring, mother dear, 
	And have heard the brown darling sing,
You said, ‘Hear it and wish, and ’twill surely come
	true;'
	So I've wished such a beautiful thing!

I thought I would like to ask something for you;
	But I couldn’t think what there could be
That you’d want while you had all these beautiful
	things—
	Besides, you have papa and me!

So I wished for a ladder; so long that ’twould stand
	One end by our own cottage door,
And the other go up past the moon and the stars,
	And lean against Heaven’s white floor.

Then I’d get you to put on my pretty white dress,
	With my sash and my darling new shoes,
And I’d find some white roses to take up to God—
	The most beautiful ones I should choose.

And you and dear papa would sit on the ground
	And kiss me and tell me 'Good bye;'
Then I'd go up the ladder far out of your sight,
	Till I came to the door in the sky!

I wonder if they keep the door fastened tight?
	If but one little crack I could see,
I would whisper, ‘Please, Father, let Mary come in,
	She’s as tired as she can be!’

And then, when the angels had opened the door,
	He would say, ‘Bring the little child here,’ 
But He’d speak so softly I’d not be afraid;
	And He’d smile just like you, mother dear!

He would put his kind arms round your dear little girl,
	And I’d ask him to send down for you,
And papa, and cousin, and all that I love—
	O dear! don’t you wish ’twould come true?"

The next spring time, when the robins came home,
	They sang over grass and flowers
That grew where the foot of the ladder stood,
	Whose top reached the heavenly bowers.

And the parents had dressed the pale little child
	For the flight to the summer land,
In a fair white robe with one snow-white rose
	Folded tight in her pulseless hand.


﻿EXAMPLES FOR CHILDREN.
			    —
	The chief care of women, especially
those belonging to the Church of
Jesus Christ, should be, that their
children are properly taught. They
should realize, too, that the examples
which they set for them are most likely to
mark their steps through life. Yet how
many of us, often forget this all important
subject, instead of keeping it constantly in
view, as a safeguard against anger, fretful-
ness, jealousy and envy, and many other
evils that might be mentioned.
	A few years ago, I one night dreamed of
being at church and hearing President
Young chide the Sisters concerning their
clothing, and I looked at the sleeve of my
dress; it was white as snow; for which I felt
a deep sense of satisfaction and gratitude.
My eye wandered downward to the bottom
of my skirt, and I saw two rows of black
trimming there, which annoyed and per-
plexed me. How could I get that ugly
trimming off? If I ripped it off the stain
and stitches would look even worse than the
trimming. With the mortification and
anxiety caused by these reflections, I awoke.
“Well,” I said to myself, “I have been
fretting and worrying over nothing; and by
making myself cheerless and disagreeable—
which is the black trimming—I have dis-
quieted my home, and cast a gloom over
the pure minds of my dear, sweet children;
which bad example will leave a hateful stain
that must be carefully erased in the right
way, or it will grow upon my children,
making them even more irritable and un-
loveable than I have been.” We cannot
take too much pains, mothers, in seeking to
live near the Lord and to cherish a peaceful
and loving spirit, that we may impart the
same to our offsprings, both before and after 
their birth.						NORA.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.
				—
	BALTA is a Russian city of 15,000 inhab-
itants, where, until recently, not a single
school was in existence.
	A TERRE Haute, Ind., professional sheep-
shearer says that he has not seen such fine
fleeces in the last fifteen years as this year’s
clip shows.
	THE managers of the New York and Erie
railroad have issued an order forbidding the
sale of spirituous liquors at the restaurants
along the road.
	AN English lady in the city of Birming-
ham has been made to pay a fine of L20 for
giving an undeserved “recommendation”
to a discharged domestic.
	THE model cheese factory of Utica made
last season 211,500 lbs.,. of cheese, which
sold for $21,776.81. The business will be
largely increased another season.
	THE Lincoln “Statesman” says: A care-
ful canvass of the political status of the
Lunatic Asylum taken yesterday gives the
following result: Grant, 39; G. F. Train,
4; Greeley, 1. Strickland is their unanimous
choice for Congress.
	A NEW cave in Schoharie County has re-
cently been explored for a mile. It has
statacutes, statagmites and all the rest of
those fellows. Near the centre is a dome
about a hundred feet high.
	IT is estimated that there are 400 saloons
and groceries in San Francisco, which dis-
pense annually 20,000 barrels of lager, 500,-
000 gallons of wine, and 2,000,000 gallons of
the more stimulating fluids, the total value
of which is $10,000,000.
	THE industrial and commercial growth of
Italy during the past few years has been re-
markable. Genoa alone, with a population
of only 150,000, has now twenty-four great
banking houses, with a capital of 162,900,-
000 francs; twenty corporations, with a capi-
tal of 42,328 francs, and forty-five insurance
companies.
	THE great pyramid weighs 12,760,000,-
000 tons, if anybody wants to know. Ac-
cording to Herodotus, it took the labor of
100,000	men twenty years to build it. To
show the mechanical value of modern im-
provements Dr. Lardner affirms that 480 tons
of coal, with an engine and hoisting ma-
chine, would have raised every stone to its
position.
	THE total wool product of the world for
1871 has been given at 1,121,519,000 pounds.
The largest contributing countries were as
follows: United States, 177,000,000 pounds;
England, 160,000,000 pounds; Australia,
152,000,000 pounds; La Plata, 138,000,000
pounds. These four countries furnish 627,-
000,000 pounds, or over 50 per cent. of the
total product.
	THE entire area of Manhattan Island is
14,500 acres. Taking out 1,800 acres set
aside for public parks, and 1,638 acres left
for streets and boulevards, and we have 11,-
062 acres left for building purposes. Of
these 11,062 acres, 7,253 acres are now occu-
pied by 101,000 houses, which leaves only
3,809 acres to be occupied! These 3,809
acres, at twenty building lots to the acre,
would make 76,180 more building sites on
the island. The last census gives our popu-
lation at 942,992. If we increase during the
next twenty years as fast as we have for the
last twenty years, our population will have
reached 1,600,000, or 100,000 more than
enough to cover every inch of ground from
the Battery to Harlem River.—“New York
paper."


FARMERS’ BOYS.
			    —
	There is a native manliness and indepen- 
dent nobility about farmers’ boys that is 
rarely ever witnessed in those who grow up
in cities. The city boy may be more pol-
ished, and perhaps a little quicker with his
mother tongue, but sound him and you will
find that he has not the depth of mind 
or the manliness of character that are gener-
ally possessed by the hardy country boy. 
The latter is nature’s child, he is strong, 
fearless and independent, his faculties are 
healthy and active, and he readily masters 
the lessons that are spread out so abundantly 
around them. He studies the works and
beauties of nature, and being unhampered by
the rules of conventionality, he seeks the
natural course of things he does not under-
stand, depending upon himself for the. solu-
tion of his most difficult problems; thus he
becomes self-reliant, common-sense and
practical, and when he goes out into the
world he deals with men on those princi-
ples. He understands human nature, too,
as he has learned it from his own disposi- 
tion and his keen observation of the con- 
duct of other people, and, his common-sense 
telling him that human nature is and al-
ways has been the same, he knows, exactly
how to approach men when he wishes to
gain his purpose.	
	The greatest men of every calling and all 
ages have been farmers’ sons, and they will
be until the end of time; and the secret of 
their success is their self-reliance, united 
with industrious, temperate habits. They 
have neither the time nor the means to study
the sciences and fine arts.
	There is still a brighter future for farm- 
ers’ boys. The great improvements that 
have been made in farming implements do 
away with a large portion of the heavy and 
disagreeable labor that formerly could not
be avoided, and enable one man to do as 
much work as two or three could in earlier
periods, so that now farmers have more time
to read and improve their minds and be- 
come familiar with events that are transpir- 
ing in the world. The great increase in books
and periodicals and the low prices at which 
they are offered furnish additional facilities
for obtaining knowledge, and if farmers take
advantage of them as they should, we will 
soon find our most polished gentlemen and 
cultivated scholars among the youth of the 
country.—“St. Joseph Reflector.”


DURING HIS short stay in Paris the Prince 
of Wales took occasion to pay a visit to Mrs. 
Johnson, of Baltimore, formerly Miss Har-
riet Lane, who was staying for some weeks
at the Hotel Westminster in that city. The 
compliment was not only consistent with a
truly royal courtesy, but was merited by the 
recipient, whose claim upon the recognition 
of the representative of the British throne
was well established during the years that
she presided over the White House, at 
Washington, and at the residence of the
American Minister in London. As niece
of the bachelor President, she did the
honors of the White House with a delicate
courtesy and a gentle dignity that gained
the respect as well as the admiration of state
visitors from abroad, equally with that of
the people. It was a true Republican Court
that Miss Lane established, over which she
ruled without pretensious display or foolish
extravagance, but with an elegant grace
that gave an easy supremacy. It was she
who welcomed and entertained the Prince
of Wales on his visit to America, and we
can easily believe that the return call of the
Prince in Paris was prompted as much by
inclination as by royal courtesy.


WOMAN’S’ EXPONENT.


﻿ANECDOTE OF SEWARD.
				   —
	Not long ago a gentleman was telling me
a Senatorial anecdote of, and dating back to,
the ante-bellum days. Mr. Seward had made
a speech—something about the telegraph—
when Mr. Toombs, of Georgia, rose to reply,
and made a speech of personal abuse of
Seward. He wrought himself up into a rage
and lashed about in the most aggressive
manner. He finished and took his seat. As
Mr. Seward rose from his chair every eye
was bent upon him with the greatest anxi-
ety. With calm, measured step, he walked
towards Mr. Toombs. It was noticed that
his right hand was underneath the rear
pocket of his coat. There was apprehension
that he was concealing a pistol, and Mr.
Toombs' friends crowded around him. When
Mr. Seward reached him, he drew out his
hand, and opening his snuff-box, politely in-
vited his adversary to take a pinch of snuff.
"My God!" said Mr. Toombs, "Mr. Seward,
have you no feelings?" "Take a pinch of
snuff; it will soothe your agitation." He
then returned to his seat without any allu-
sion to Mr. Toombs or his speech, made an
able argument in favor of his measure,
which carried. Coolness and self-possession
will always win the victory over hot temper
and passionate invective. —"Washington
letter."


Z. C. M. I.
	RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.

	We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
riety of our Patrons.
	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated
		SALT LAKE GLOVES.
Children’s Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty.
	While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics
of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,
Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-
est possible figure.
				H.B. CLAWSON, Sup't

LADIES !
	Go to Taylor & Cutler's for Dress Goods, No-
tions, etc. Also the Cheapest Store for Family Gro-
ceries in town. Call and see.

WEED SEWING MACHINES.
			Stitch Alike on Both Sides.
The Lightest Running
		SHUTTLE MACHINE
						In the World.
	Sews Fine and Coarse. No Springs nor Cogs. No
taking apart to Oil or Clean it.
	Send for Circular to 97 Kimball Block, Salt Lake
City.							IRA PFOUTZ, Ag't.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.
[new column]
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery, and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

DR. W. H. GROVES, 
						DENTIST,
	Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
			Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

LADIES' BAZAR.
		MRS. WILKINSON,
FASHIONABLE MILLINER AND DRESSMAKER.
	Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Millinery, Straw
Goods, and all kinds of fancy and Staple Dry Goods.
	Sole agent for the Territory for M'me Demorest's
reliable paper patterns. Orders from the country so-
licited ; patterns sent by mail. Removed to the new
Establishment, 1st South St., next door west of Z. C.
M. I. Wholesale Dry Goods Department.

			JOHNSON'S
	
	HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES !

Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-
	
	ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.

	BONESET PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. 	Price 25 cents.

	EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.

	CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in
the side, back, breast, or others parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. 	Price 25 cents.

	ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills.	Price 50 cents.

	These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at

	ZION'S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,

Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.

	If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them.

	Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.

	AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.

From the Laboratory of
						J.E. JOHNSON,
						  St. George, Utah.
[new column]
		   WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		A UTAH LADIES' JOURNAL.

	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest in mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.

	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them ; and 
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.

	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!"

	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the public-
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.

	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.

	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.

	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings; 
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.

	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.

	WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in in
Utah.

	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1 Copy one year,  $2.00	1 Copy six months, $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months, 9.00

	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a 
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

	Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


Woman's Exponent.
Vol. I.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1872.	No. 6.﻿


NEWS AND VIEWS.

 THE usual deluge of summer “poetry” is
being poured out..
  EX-EMPRESS EUGENIE finds warm sym-
pathy in cold Scotland.
  A FAILURE.—PlautamouFs comet to put
in an appearance on the 12th, insf.
  PRESIDENT GRANT and would-be President
Greeley are “swinging around the circle,”
and their admirers are feting" them.
  POLITICAL parties charge political .corrup-
tion on each other, and the facts reveaL ah
alarming amount of truth in the charges,
 MR. JEFFERSON, the actor, is.recovering
his eyesight, and Rip Van Winkle,.as.per-
sonated by him, may again delight thou-
sands,
  SUSAN B. ANTHONY has announced-her-
self strongly in favor of President Grant’s
re-election. Miss Anthony has done wiser
things.
  THE Presidential campaign has given
Utah, a breathing spell from her persecutors.
Every blessing should be thankfully ac-
knowledged.
  POLITICIANS changing parties and tiie
people pressing on to the accomplishment of
a settled political purpose, arc among the
signs of the times.
  A RECENT magazine says: “ Fifteen dol-
lar will buy a lovely homestead of eighty.
acres in Florida.” But is it worth the money?
And how much of a fortune does it take to
make the homestead profitable.
  GARIBALDI, it is said, has quit soldiering
I and turned novelist, and is preparing for the
press a novel the scenes of which nrc'laid in
France during the late war. “ Take away
the sword, states may be saved without it.”
  LADY Wentworth, of England, has left
the roof of her husband, and Lord Went-
worth advertises her as if they were “vulgar
plebians.” The leveling tendencies of the
age have struck oven the haughty English
aristocracy.
  THE rejection of the side-saddle for ladies’
riding is warmly agitated just now, without
making much headway, A revolution in
dress will precede the change, and then
sensible women will cry halt, and consider
the matter.
  "LET us have peace" was the cry on
which General Grant was elected to the
Presidency in 1868; and still the Republic
cries and yearns for good peace and has not
yet found it. Election watchwords are as
hollow as worthless reeds.
  BALDNESS, it is said, is becoming fearfully
prevalent among the ladies as a result of 
wearing chignons. Where nature's orna-
ment of hair is cultivated in place of mon-
strosities of fashion, this deformity is
avoided. But fashion makes fools of mil-
lions.
  RUSSIA stands no newspaper nonsense. A
report was circulated in the United States
that the Grand Duke Alexis was secretly
married; and two Russian editors have been
fined and imprisoned for alluding to the mat-
ter. It is a reflection on the profession, but
sad to say a truth, to add that if all the edi-
tors in this country that publish false reports

were imprisoned, the penitentiaries would
have to be enlarged.
   BOSTON shipped 489,500 gallons of Med-
ford rum to heathen Africa in the last six
months. With a sufficient stock of mission-
ary tracts and red flannel jackets Africa
should be in a fair way to be "Christianized"
and "civilized." Bnt that Boston thus ex-
porst the gospel of rum to the heathen is a 
stain on the "Hub" which it should cover
with the mantle of charity for the short-
comings of other place less pretentions in
regard to piety, literature, and the higher
virtues.
  FIVE young ladies of New York announced
through a leading newspaper the other day
that they would ride in a public part of the
city, on horseback, in the style men use—
without side-saddles.  Whether the exploit
was an illustration of moral courage, or a
speciman of "fast" life, the public can deter-
mine ; but the act of itself shows that the
modesty which our great-grandfathers ad-
mired in our great-grandmothers is not so
popular as it might be to the benefit of well-
ordered society.
  HON. John A. Bingham, who was so anx-
ious last session of Congress to have some
harsh, prescriptive, anti-Mormon bill passed,
has been kindly permitted by his constitu-
ents to retire after the 4th of March next.
They declined to nominate him, and he can
now pass to the living tomb of politicans
with Cullom, Colfax and others, who sought
to make political capital by pressing a cru-
sade against the people of Utah, and became
bankrupt by the operation.
  AN English astronomer once said that a
comet striking an ex-
press train going forty miles an hour would
have on the train. M. Plantamour, the Swiss
astronomer, evidently did not think so when
he predicted fearful results to this planet by
its coming into collision with a comet on the 
12th instant. If the comet encountered the
earth at the date specified, the blow must
have been a light one, as nobody appears to
have felt it.
  DID Stanley, the New York "Herald"
correspondent, find Dr. Livingstone, or did
 he not? Did he write the letters attributed
to him, or were they written in the "Herald"
office in New York? Is there anything
genuine about Stanley's account of finding
Livingstone, or is the whole, a "bohemian's"
fabrication, bred in a vivid imagination and
designed to secure cheap notoriety for
wonderful journalistic enterprise? These
are questions of the hour. And the news-
paper that can so thrill the pulse of the
civilized world with a fabrication—if it be
one—has won a triumph of notoriety that
respectable journals will not envy.
  THE Emperors of Germany, Russia, and
Austria, are soon to meet in Berlin, and the 
ex-Emperor Napolean is going to drink the
waters of Carlsbad. Emperors do not con-
gregate in this manner to exchange courtes-
ies. There is danger to the peace of Europe
in their gathering together, and millions of
homes may be filled with mourning because
of the meeting of Willhelm, Alexander and
Francis Joseph. Such are the fruits of
imperial ambition; and such will be the

fruits of a lust for power while men are the
slaves of passions which prompt them to
work woe in the world that they may be
great and raised far above their fellows.
  "THE Sleeping Beauty of Tennessee" is
the title given to a woman in that State who
presents one of those physical phenomena
which baffle science and apparently set all
ordinary laws of nature at defiance. She
is described as white as marble, thirty-
one years ago, and having slept for
twenty-three years, awaking thirteen times
every twenty-four hours and remaining
awake exactly seven minutes each time,
during which she eats, drinks and talks. It
is said no earthly power can make her keep
awake a second longer than seven minutes
at a time; and that she breathes only at in-
tervals of five minutes. The circumstances
connected with the peculiar case are related
at length in the Louisville "Courier Jour-
nal" and bear marks of genuineness. Where
is the pundit or savant that can give a satis-
factory explanation of the phenomenon?
  IT is reliably stated that "trichina spira-
lis" has been found in a ham imported to
California from Chicago. The action of these
parasites upon the human system is fatal,
and death is preceeded by tortures of the most
horrible character. They breed in the in-
testines, in the flesh, and through the entire
body of their victim, making it a nursery for
death-dealing insects. In seeing how widely
hog's flesh is used, and thinking on the un-
clean nature of the animal and the serious
consequences that often follow eating it, we 
sometimes think of Dr. Adam Clark's
"grace," when asked to "return thanks"
over a meal where a young roast pig was on
the table. He had an aversion to swine,
but a politeness prevented his declining to
ask a blessing, and in the course of it he
said: "Lord, if Thou canst bless under the
Christian dispensation, what Thou didst
curse under the Jewish dispensation, bless
that pig!" Avoid the use of hog's flesh as
much as possible; but when it must be used
endeavor to learn how the animal was fed,
and be sure to have the flesh thoroughly
cooked. 
	THE first gun of the Presidential cam-
paign was fired at North Carolina, and no-
body seem to be aware whether anyone was
hurt by the discharge. First it was alleged
the State had gone Republican; then Demo-
cratic; then again 'Republican; and both
parties have rejoiced hugely over it in turn.
Seemingly, the Republicans, by a lavish ex-
penditure of money and the use of all the
means at the command of the administra-
tion have elected their candidates for the
Governorship and the several State offices;
while the Democrats have elected a majority
of members of Congress and of the State
Legislature. This virtually makes it a victory
for neither side, so that each can count honors
and rejoice in having won something. The
next elections of interest are those of Cali-
fornia and Maine, the former on September
2, the latter on September 9; with Vermont
coming off on September 3, but as it is cer-
tain to go for Grant less interest attaches to
it. In a month from the present date
politicians will begin to figure with a greater
degree of certainty on the chances of Grant
and Greeley in the November struggle.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿ASKING A BLESSING.
			—
"Ay; but wait, good wife, a minute;
	I have first a word to say:
Do you know what day to-day is?
	Mother, ’tis our wedding-day!

"Just as now, we sat at supper
	When the guests had gone away;
You sat that side, I sat this side,
	Forty years ago to-day!.

"Then what plans we laid together:
	What brave things I meant to do!
Could we dream to-day would find us
	At this table—me and you? 

"Better so, no doubt—and yet I
	Sometimes think—I cannot tell—
Had our boys—ah, yes! I know dear;
	Yes, He doeth all things well.

"Well, we’ve had our joys and sorrows;
	Shared our smiles as well as tears;
And—the best of all—I've had your
	Faithful love for forty years!

"Poor we’ve been, but not forsaken;
	Grief we’ve known but never shame—
Father, for Thy endless mercies
	Still	we bless Thy Holy Name!"


﻿F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
			  —
	SMITHFIELD, Cache County, July 31, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	I congratulate you on the success of your
paper. I am very much pleased with it,
and am always anxious to see each coming
number. I wish you prosperity in every
good work.					J.S.C.
	We herewith send you a financial report
of our Society, since its organization. We
held our annual meeting on the 13th of
May; had a good attendance, and all felt
well. Our Society is in a prosperous condi-
tion. Since our organization we have re-
ceived in donations and increase of value on
property $858.50; which we have disposed
of as follows: Given to the poor, $319,06;
paid for the educating of dependent children,
$183.15; to assist in gathering the poor,
$77.00; for public expenses, $50.00, and
have a balance now in the Treasury of$229.-
29. A share in the railroad, and shares in
the Co-operative store are included in our
property on hand.
		MRS. E. T. MOREHEAD, President,
		MRS. JANE S. COLEMAN, Secretary,
		MRS. MARGARET STORY; Treasurer.
				   ——
	The following report is from the 17th ward,
Salt Lake City:
	The semi-annual meeting of the fifth year
of the F. R. Society of the 17th ward, was
held in the Union Hall, Thursday, August 6.
	The semi-annual report, which was read
by the Secretary, showed the society to be
in good order. The sum of $158.44 had been
disbursed to the needy during the past six
months.
	We have a large class of Scandinavian sis-
ters who devote some hours a week to the
study of the English language, and are
taught by Sister Julia Howe, who realized
the amount of good that would accrue to
them through a knowledge of the English
language.
	During the meeting the sum of $50.00 was
donated to the Perpetual Emigration Fund.
President Mrs. M. A. Hyde suggested that
a synopsis of the proceedings of the meeting
be sent to the EXPONENT which, being put
to vote, passed unanimously.
	A good feeling prevailed and all felt to do
all they could to aid the poor and suffering.
	Since the organization of the Society, four
years and a half ago, we have raised in dona-
tions, $2,667.42 1/2; disbursed t othe poor,
$1,797.15; and have at present in the treas-
ury, in cash, upwards of $300.00.
			MRS. G. A. ALDER, Secretary.
-


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
				—
	INSTABILITY AND a love of change,
among domestics is an evil in our country,
which might be remedied in a great
measure, if employers, especially the mis-
tresses of families, would take more pains
to make their residences agreeable and to
attach domestics to their families by feelings
of gratitude and affection. It is not merely
by giving them good food, comfortable
rooms, presents and privileges that the at-
tachments of domestics are secured. These
things are necessary, but not all that is re-
quired. A kindly interest should be mani-
fested for the hapiness and welfare of the
domestic. Make her feel that you are really
her friend, and can afford, occasionally, to
make little sacrifices to accommodate her
feelings, which may be as sensitive and as
susceptible of enjoyment as your own.
	IT DOES not speak well for womankind,
that washer-women, and those who go out
to day’s work, prefer to work for gentlemen.
Yet they positively aver that gentlemen
find less fault with their work and are much
more liberal in their prices for work than
ladies. The Golden Rule should be kept
in view—ladies should once in a while wash
and get up their own collars and ruffles that
they may be able to consider the real esti-
mate of the labor, and not underrate it when
settling with the poor creatures, who are
thus obliged to work to gain a livelihood.
	PUDDING.—Take a pound of stoned raisins,
six eggs, a wine-glass of rum or brandy,
some beef marrow, a pound of corn flower
or maizena, some sugar, two tumblers of
milk, citron or lemon peel, and nutmeg to
taste; mix perfectly; and add in bread-
crumbs until you get sufficient consistence. 
Tie tightly in a cloth and boil four hours.
	POTATO SOUP.—Boil two or three pounds
of potatoes, mash them well, add slowly
good broth, sufficent for your tureen; let
this well boil, and then add some spinach,
sorrel, a little parsley, lemon, thyme, mint
and sage, all chopped fine; boil all five min-
utes; pepper and salt to taste; just before
taking off the fire, add two well-beaten eggs.
	RENDERING FABRICS INCOMBUSTIBLE.—
Dissolve borax in hot water, soak the cloth-
ing in the liquid, and afterward let it dry.
If will not be impossible to inflame it, al-
though it will burn away with a slow com-
bustion. Alum has been recommended for
the same purpose, but it is injurious to the
clothing; the carbonate of potash may also


be used, but it is apt to contract moisture
from the air, and thus render the clothes
damp.
	STEWED CALF'S FEET.—Divide the feet
at the joints, and split the claws, put them
into a stewpan, and pour in cold water to
cover them completely. If a thick slice of
the lean of an unboiled ham or knuckle of
bacon be laid at the bottom of the pan it
will greatly improve the whole preparation.
When the boiling takes place, throw in a
little salt, and after the scum has been re-
moved, add some parsley, celery, onion,
cloves, mace, and pepper. Stew softly until
the flesh parts entirely from the bones, take
it from them, strain part of the gravy, skim
off the fat, flavor with catsup, and thicken,
when it boils, with flour and butter; put in
the flesh of the feet, and serve immediately.


MISCELLANEOUS.
			   —
	CHEERFULNESS.—What a world of sun-
shine, beauty and sweetness is concentrated
in this one attribute. Innocence and chas-
tity are its constant companions, for it can-
not in its refined state, exist where there is
impurity, or vulgarity. When it brightens
the countenance and wreathes the lips with
smiles, even a plain, commonplace face ap-
pears to good advantage; while without its
warm and genial expressions, the most fault-
less features are unlovely. Whether mani-
fested in looks, words or actions, it is the
outpourings of a frank and generous heart;
and is actuated by virtuous and unselfish
principles. No intelligence, however su-
perior, can make a person an agreeable com-
panion without the maintenance of some de-
gree of pleasantry. But with a reasonable
share of it, some people render themselves
fascinating, and their company very desira-
ble though their intellectual developments
may be meagre and their education limited.
Rude and boisterous gaiety, that which is
calculated to excite, weary and create after
dissatisfaction, is no part of genuine cheer-
fulness. But happy tears as well as quiet
laughter may be the overflowings of inno-
cent joyousness.
	THE GREAT BELL IN RUSSIA.—The
largest bell is in Russia, in the city of Mos-
cow. The Russians call it “the king of
bells.” It is nearly twenty feet high, sixty
feet around at the bottom, two feet thick,
and weighs four hundred thousand pounds.
Just think of a round room the shape of a
bell, twenty feet across, with walls two feet
thick, and you can have some idea of how
big the bell is. Would you like to ring it?
It takes twelve men to ring it. They tug
and pull, and it booms and tolls so as to al-
most deafen one. Its tongue or clapper is
fourteen feet long. When they were making
this big bell, some of the nobles and rich
people were so proud of it, that they put
gold and silver rings in with the metal.
	A VIGOROUS old agriculturist, living near
Abilene, Kansas, while hoeing corn the other
day, chopped his toe off with his hoe, but
never stopped to pick it up until he had
finished the row. He then went back and
found the amputated appendage, brushed
the dirt off and carried it to the house,
where with the help of his wife and some
fruit jar wax, he replaced it and then went
to work again. He is a self-made man, be-
longs to a Greeley Club, is a deacon in a
church, never imbibes in the the ardent,
neither swears nor chews gum.
	A GLANCE, a twinkle, or an earnest look
often expresses volumes when there is no
time for words. Eyes are not only given for
sight but for the expression of ideas.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿WOMAN’S VOICE.
				      —
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Somehow, it seems to me that if all those
“strong minded” women would but allow
themselves to consider, they could hardly
help seeing that, at present, there cannot
be devised any better system for the con-
traction of the social evil, than the Mormon
principle of plurality of wives.
	They believe the majority of women to be
superior to the majority of men. How then
can they hope to procure a suitable husband
for every good and pure woman, save by
letting men who are worthy take more than
one worthy woman each, or many of them,
since there are a great many more women
than men in different parts of the world?
	They believe in equal rights for all.
What equality is there to be found in a
society where only one woman out of a
great number is to be favored with a moral,
temperate husband? While the rest must
remain in “single blessedness,” and die
without having fulfilled their mission to the
earth. Or else, marry poor, worthless,
drunken vagabonds who will desert them
and perhaps their helpless children, when-
ever they tire of them.
	How is it that they cannot see that it
would be better to have a husband that can
be trusted, and a father for the children,
that they need not be ashamed to own?
With all my weakness and selfish feelings,
I can see that women in the world have
much more cause for anxiety and trouble
than we have in Utah.
	Our F. R. Society is not doing much now.
We haven’t had a meeting for ever so long.
I feel sorry to have things so neglected, for
I think we should be awake and at work
for the general good of mankind, ourselves
included; but it is not my place to make any
move unless so directed. So I wait patiently,
saying good words and encouraging where
ever I can, and feeling assured that all will
be well.							F. S.
	Dear sisters, who have so nobly stepped
forward to stem the tide of arrogance, ignor-
ance, and assumption; seeing in your paper
an invitation to come and do likewise I offer
a few of my scattered ideas for your columns.
My feelings have been aroused, or, in other
words, I have “been set to thinking” by
some remarks I saw in a late paper relative
to “Mormon women awakening up to a full
realization of our grave situation.” Have
we ever been asleep? I trust not. There is
no thinking woman among us but what will
say our situation is grave; has ever been
grave. My mind wanders back in retrospect
to the days when I was “one of Christ’s
little ones, too” and I could give many
things from memory to show that our situa-
tion was grave. The days of anxiety and
nights of fear in Nauvoo; the days of sick-
ness and destitution in the scorching sun,
as we traveled through Illinois, Iowa or
Missouri. When at Council Bluffs the flower
of our little band was taken from us to fight
on the plains of Mexico for the land we now
inhabit—fathers, husbands, and brothers;
and their bones were strewn by the wayside
a sacrifice of loyalty to their country; leav-
ing only the old and infirm, and boys too
young to stand the fatigues of camp life, to
support and protect the women and children.
Our situation then was truly grave. Beneath
burning suns on the sandy plains of the
“great desert,” and amid the chilling cold
and eternal snows of the Rocky Mountains,
it was still grave. We may have tried to
slumber and bury our wrongs in forgetful-
ness, but it was like sleeping in a nest of
mosquitoes; there were too many bills pre-
[new column]
sented (not excepting Cullom’s) to permit us
a peaceful repose.
	But why renew this subject, or repeat
these things? Many are tired of hearing
them, because we are not afraid to open our
mouths and testify to the wrongs we suffered.
How have our affections and hopes been
blighted? I will tell you. When amid all
this privation and sorrow we have reared
our little daughters, according to the best of
our circumstances and ability, they have
been snatched from us by the hands of liber-
tines and villains. When the onward course
of “civilization” has washed its waves on
our rock-bound shores and brought for our
sons the billiard table, the gambling saloons
and the dens of infamy; when the people
would make laws to take from us our hus-
bands and protectors, leaving us a prey to
officers and politicians, the base and- un-
principled, to fill houses of wretchedness
and ill-fame; our children illegitamized, our
names a by-word, then, sisters of Zion, our
hearts may bleed, for that is the system
that strikes at the root of womanhood and
blights our affections and hopes. See our
sons, bright and noble, not disgracing
the image of their Creator! See our daughters,
fair and gentle, types of noble womanhood,
fit to become the mothers of a noble race,
exalted in health, in dignity, in purity and
virtue!  We have obeyed the command-
ments of God and the dictates of our own
conciences, and this is our reward. We are
tender mothers and honored wives. Have
we fainted or faltered by the wayside?
Perhaps we have. How many of our
Christian sisters, fearing pain or dreading
the cares of maternity, have done the same
and committed their names in cowardice
and shame to the grave of oblivion? But to
those who have nobly contended against the
tide of ignorance, error and public opinion—
who have fought the good fight and won
the victory, how great must be their satis-
faction, as they receive the blessings of God
and the approbation of their own hearts!
	PROVO. 						M. J. T.


﻿BROTHERS.
				—
	Girls, are not your brothers generous and
loving to you? It is, unqestionably, very
much your own fault if they are not.
	If brothers are not what they should be,
the influence of good-natured, sweet-tem-
pered, pure-minded sisters has much power
as an incitement to reflection and reform.
Few men are naturally so very vile that
the gentle, persuasive voice and affection-
ate ways of a true woman, have no weight
with them. Yet, sometimes, brothers are
mean, cross, and altogether worthless; and
it is not in the reach of mothers or sisters to
reclaim them. And even such ones some-
times get wives with tender hearts to break.
	I have frequently heard elderly ladies say
to young ones, “Never marry a man who is
not kind, and thoughtful of the welfare and
comfort of his mother or sister.” This is
excellent advice, to which sensible girls
mostly give head. Yet, even such men
are sometimes won over to a beautiful con-
sistency by a prudent, cheerful wife whose
affectionate words and ways are the only
disapprovals he gets for his cross ones. A
man should be as careful in selecting a
wife, if he would enjoy life under the influ-
ence of hymen’s power, not to get one who
is ungrateful, and regardless of her father or
brother’s happiness.
If a man has been brought up with a
mother and sisters who were unreasonable
and extravagant in their demands for atten-
tion, he will naturally have acquired the


habit of making refusals, and look to be
found fault with for doing so; and anything
else will seem out of place to him. It is as
unfair for sisters and wives to want to be
petted and indulged all the time to keep
them in good humor, as it is for brothers
and husbands to be ungracious and arbitrary
and never deign to gratify the wishes of
those who depend so much upon them.
		“There’s no belief in man,
		Not even in a brother;
		So girls, it you must love.
		Love one another.’'
	These words are said to have been found
in a lady’s scrap-book at a hotel. I don’t
like them—they are too deprecatory of one
of the ablest and most devoted supports we
ever find—a brother.
	What should we do without broth-
ers? Those who will confide in us to the
very last; and even ask our advice in
matters that other people might think us
too frivolous and childish to have ever
thought of.
	There is belief in man; and until some
one is found who will take still greater re-
sponsibilities upon himself for your sake,
young lady, cling closely to your brother
and be thankful for him. And if you know
he is not the sort to make a good, noble
husband for some chaste creature, either coy
or dignified, (for all good men cannot be
suitable companions to all good women,
there is so great a variety of tastes and
sentiments,) help him to become so, for
that is what God designed him to be.
								FRANK.


﻿TRUTH WITH CHILDREN.
				—
	“Suffer little children to come unto me,
and forbid them not; for of such is the King-
dom of Heaven.”
	These beautiful words of our beloved Re-
deemer, are worthy the contemplation of
every intelligent mind. After living twenty
or thirty years upon the earth, how far have
we receded from the innocence of infancy,
and how carefully and faithfully must we
watch ourselves, to recall its charitable, un-
suspicious and confiding trust!
	How thoughtless are parents ever to take
a course to change and embitter that pure,
heavenly trust in their children! Yet it is
often done, and in various ways. For in-
stance: A mother promises to dress her little
girl’s doll, presently. How often hour after
hour slips away, and still the promise is not
fulfilled. Still the child’s perfect trust in her
mother’s words, keeps her hopeful; and the
little task is postponed, laid aside for some-
thing of more importance, until the entire
day passes, or perhaps two or three days;
and although the promise may be often re-
peated, it is still unfulfilled.
	From such unwise examples children learn,
not only to be distrustful of others, but also
to make promises themselves that they do i
not even intend to perform. In many cases,
older people make a practice of telling chil-
dren what they may consider “white lies,”
to persuade or frighten them into being obo-
dient. But every falsehood that is calcula-
ted to implant within the bosom of a child
seeds of deception and distrust, is a black
one and should be studiously avoided. It is
better to enforce discipline among children
by the firm exercise of parental authority
than to inculcate the poison of deceit into
their young, guileless minds. But to control
them by the gentle powers of firm, cheerful,
yet earnest and truthful persuasion, is better
still.									LUNIE.


WE should guard against small vices as  
well as great errors.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

	LOUISE L GREENE, Editor.

    Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine.  Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
						Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 15, 1872.


﻿SPLINTERS.	
				—
	One of the chief objects of attention and
sensational conversation in London, now, is
Gladstone and his great triumph........Miss
Amy Sedgwick, the popular London actress,
will visit this country next season......A
new comedy, in five acts, from George Sand,
is among the recent additions to stage litera-
ture....Elinski, a Polish exile, is lecturing
in Oregon and gives a history of the late
revolution in his own land.......A turkey in
Scipio, New York, has laid one hundred
eggs in one hundred days, never missing a
day......Ochre is used in making bricks and
pottery ware in Kansas.....Senator Brown-
low says if Greeley and Brown are elected
we are placed back where we were in 1861,
when the traitors fired upon Fort Sumpter.
......Boston gave a grand banquet to the
Japanese Embassy, August 2nd......At To-
peka, on the 27th of July, Mrs. Thomas
Mattingley drowned herself and a three
year old child, on account of domestic un-
happiness......The wedding presents of Miss
Nilsson, married in London to M. Boussand
amount, in value, to $60,000....Since the
death of President Juarez, the French think
of renewing diplomatic relations with
Mexico......General Sherman attended th
funeral of the son of the Duke of Aumale at
Paris......Senator Schurz charges Grant with
using Federal arms to influence the States
and overawe them......Heavy mining strikes
are reported in Pioche Dictrict.....About
1,000 acres of cotton was planted in Califor-
nia this season......Disraeli’s wife, Lady Bea-
consfield is ill beyond hope of recovery.....
In a competitive examination at New York,
the nomination for a cadetship at the Na-
val Academy was won by a ragged news-boy.
......A Missouri paper makes calculations
that Grant will receive a majority of
10,000 in that State......The value of the
gold now extant is estimated at upwards of
$5,000,000,000.....All record of the late de-
vastation in Paris is reported to be disap-
pearing......The “American Settler” is the
name of a paper lately started in London....
Among the peasantry in France, it is said,
not one in a hundred can read or write......
A California inventor has produced a rail-
road tie of vegetable fibre, held in asphal-
tum......The contract for building a seminary
to cost one thousand eight hundred and
forty dollars, has been let at Napa, Califor-
nia......Thiers will send one hundred thou-
sand men to suppress the mining riots on
the northern frontier of France,if necessary.
......George E. Pugh, an eminent Ohio Cop-
perhead, tenders his services as a stumper for
Greeley and Brown......One hundred thou-
sand dollars of diamonds are said to have
been lately received in San Francisco, from
New Mexico, discovered years ago by Kit
Carson......A tailor in California, named
Ledig, shot his wife twice the other day.
The wounds are supposed to be mortal; he
then shot himself and expired......A San
Francisco youth, named Harley, has been
committed to trial for burning the faces of
small boys with nitrate of silver......Ex-
tremely hot weather is reported, all through
the 'Western States...... Rumor says the
“colored folks” are nearly all for Greeley....
In company with his family, Greeley will
visit his old home in New Hampshire and
probably remain a month or more.....
A sarcastic paper says the West Point
cadets are pleading to let their moustaches
grow......Independence Hall, in Philadel-
phia, is being restored as nearly as possible
to its condition in 1776......Two men in St.
Charles, Michigan, have become maniacs by
exposure to a hot sun while buggy-riding.
[new column]
......The “diamond fields” of Arizona are the
latest attraction to excited hunters after pre-
cious stones......A Kansas woman has been
paralyzed by the sting of a wasp.......Du-
buque has a religious society for children.
called “The Seeds of Mercy”......A female
horse-thief in male attire has been caught In
Michigan......Bret Hart is said to be engaged
to write one article a month for the “Atlan-
tic” at $10,000 a year......The youngest bride
of the season, at Niagara, is a young lady of
Stonington, Connecticut, aged fourteen. She
left her skipping-rope at home......Nicholas
C. Sennat, a once prosperous merchant who
was ruined by the Chicago fire, committed
suicide in St. Louis recently because of his
reverses......A farmer named Williams was
thrown in front of a mowing machine a few
days ago in Suffolk county, New York, and
was cut to pieces...."Who carried North
Carolina in the late election is still an open
question......A Fon-du-Lac, Wis., woman
has sent a bill of $200 to the saloon keepers
of the town, being the amount legally due
her for a beating inflicted by a drunken
husband......General Banks, of Massachu-
setts, and General Farnsworth, of Illinois,
are among the latest prominent Republicans
that have come out for Greeley.


IGNORANCE AND BIGOTRY.
				——
	The San Francisco “Pioneer,” edited by Mrs.
Emily Pitts Stevens, is devoting some space to
Utah affairs and developing an inordinate
quantity of meaningless sentimentality in
treating of them. The last effort in this direc-
tion, in the issue of the 8th inst., starts out by
asserting that “tyranny and fanatacism go hand
in hand in Utah” which might justly be sup-
plemented by the assertion that ignorance and
bigotry go hand In hand everywhere, and nota-
bly so in the “Pioneer” office. The article in-
dulges in such sweet and loving phrases as
"simple devotee," "unscrupulous tyrant," "the
doctrine of polygamy savoring of every foul at-
tribute of slavery," "this canker upon the body
of Christendom," "humiliations which these
Mormon women bear," "spreading leprosy,"
and so on. The article is one of those tirades
in which strong adjectives are compelled to do
duty for sound reasons. Narrowed down to its
actual value, it is simply half a column of un-
reasoning abuse, for there is not an argument,
nor the shadow of one, in it from the opening
word to the closing sentence. It assumes that
"polygamy" is "a canker upon the body of
Christendom," and like scores of such efforts
rests satisfied with the assumption. The fetid,
festering, gangrene spots upon "the body of
Christendom" are sufficiently numerous to call
for the surgical aid of these would-be doctors of
morality without troubling themselves serious-
ly relative to the marital relations of Utah; but
evidently the "Pioneer" and others of the
same class, are more anxious to hold up their
hands in affected horror against an imaginary
evil and point to an assumedly sickly condition
of society at a distance, than to look upon the
[new column]
pestilence of corruption which surrounds them
at home, striking down the fairest and the
loveliest, victims of man's lust and woman's fol-
ly. The "Pioneer" is terribly exercised because of
the "humiliations these Mormon women bear,
mingled with an inward sense of shame and
outrage;" but as the "humiliations" only exist
in the imagination of the "Pioneer" and others
of like stripe, she can spare her sympathy until
it is solicited. And when she uses the language
"mingled with an inward sense of shame and 
outrage," she is impertinent, and would be in-
sulting if her bigotry were not the result of
ignorance, which few sounding sentences can-
not hide.
	We have closely watched the practical work-
ings of plural marriage for years, having been
brought into daily contact with it; and have
formed very decided opinions on the subject.
And when some of these people who are so fond
of indulging in abuse concerning "the cruelty
of Brigham Young," as this writer phrases it,
and the "downtrodden women of Utah," as
they are pleased to call us, will advance some
solid reasons based on scripture, morality,
physiology, or social science against plural 
marriage, we shall be pleased to weigh them
and give them due consideration. But neither
impertinence, abuse, nor slander will commend
them to our judgment. And when the editor
of the "Pioneer" can point us to as pure, as
happy, and as temperate a community in all
things, where she resides, as can be found in
Utah; to men in whom women can so confide
without having their confidence abused, and to
women as chaste, take them as a whole; then
we may possibly begin to have some faith in
the excellence of theories which the experience
of centuries has proven hollow and worthless.
And, further, when the editor of the "Pioneer"
can point to such a condition of society as a re-
sult of her efforts aiding those "honest preach-
ers" of whom she speaks, we will be prepared
to accord her and them more credit than that of
which the present condition of society indicates
they are worthy.


A RIGHT RECOGNIZED.
				—
Before the women of Utah enjoyed the elec-	
tive franchise those who clamored loudest for 
its being extended to them were parties who
had political "axes to grind," and who were
filled with the bitterest feelings of animosity
against the people of Utah. They foolishly
imagined that if our sex in this Territory had the	
legal right to vote, they could lead us by the arts
which politicians are accustomed to use, to turn	
against men whom we had tested through long
years of trouble and sorrow, and follow their 
lead. Upon no other hypothesis can their urg-
ent demands on Congress to bestow the right of 
suffrage upon us be explained. For when the 
Territorial legislature did enact such a measure,
and it became law by the signature of acting- 
governor Mann and the approval of Congress; 
and when they found that we could think, and
that thinking we intelligently supported the 
candidates of our choice, they were even more
clamorous that Congress should pass a law de-
claring illegal that which they had beforetime
sought to have legalized. They contended that
the exercise of the franchise byus would not stand
the test of the courts, and endeavored to have our
votes declared a nullity. But the decision of the
Supreme Court of the United States in the
Engelbrecht case declared, in plainness, what
power was vested ih a Territorial Legislature.
Then, finding that the highest tribunal of the
country had declared that the acts of the Legis-
lature, when not disapproved by Congress, were
of binding force; and as the elective franchise


was so conferred upon the women of Utah and
was consequently valid, their next move was to
practically recognize that which they had so
violently denied and disputed.  At the general
election, on the 5th inst., the candidate put for-
ward by these same individuals was voted for
by the ladies who would not support the Peo-
ple’s ticket; and thus quietly but pointedly they
acknowledged a right they could no longer gain-
say. But what shall be thought of men who,
knowingly, refuse to recognize every right to
others which they claim to exercise themselves,
and yet talk of their respect for republican gov-
ernment and the glorious principles enunciated
In the Declaration of Independence! Their
political honesty of to-day is on a par with
the “philanthropy” of a few years ago that
urged an extension of the right of suffrage to
the women of Utah; and both are arrant hypoc-
risy!


﻿	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS
			    —
	THE ELECTION has come and gone, and the
majority of votes polled for the People's Ticket
shows that the people were alive to the import-
ance of the occasion.
	THE THEATRE in this city has been re-opened
and is now lighted with gas, which works a
wonderful change in enhancing the appearance
of the interior, and rendering the performances
more pleasant and agreeable.
	INDIAN DIFFICULTIES in the Sanpete region
are threatened; and yet the Indians say they
only want a little food and some blankets. Has
Government suddenly grown poor? Or does it
tie the hands of the Indian agent so that he is un-
able to do anything for these "red wards" of the
"great father?"
	AN ABUNDANT harvest has blessed the agri-
culturists of Utah this year, as a general thing;
and though grasshoppers have caused destruc-
tion in some parts of Summit and Morgan
counties, there is much cause for thankfulness
that the scourge has been limited when com-
pared with the past few years.
	MATTERS ARE progressing for the erection of
water works in this city, and the work of sur-
veying for laying the piping has commenced.
The water will be carried from City creek to the
principal parts of the city, in sufficient volume
to meet any demand for extinguishing fires,
and for household uses, being purified and
filtered in its passage from the creek for the
latter purpose. It is an important improve-
ment.
	PREPARATIONS ARE being made for a Terri-
torial Fair, to be held in this city on the 3rd,
4th, and 5th of October next. We hope the
ladies will do as they have done at previous
Fairs; let it be seen how much their handiwork
aids in home development, It will be an excel-
lent opportunity for the Relief Societies to show
speciments of work which willing hands, in-
spired by warm hearts, do in the cause of benev-
olence.
	A FEARFUL crime is reported from Weber 
county. Two little boys seized a young girl
who was out hunting a cow on horseback, drag-
ged her from the horse, violated her person after
she had violently struggled against them, and
then pushed her into a slough where she was
drowned, because she said she said would tell
her mother. The heart sickens while thinking of
the deed, and every feeling of humanity and
justice asks, what punishment should the crim-
inals receive. They are in prison.
	AN IMPRESSION prevails in some places that
subscriptions for the EXPONENT can only com-
mence with the beginning of a volume. This
[2nd column]
﻿is a mistake which we wish to correct. There
are no continued articles in the EXPONENT, and
subscriptions can begin at any time. Those
who subscribe will receive the paper for the
term for which they pay, whether six months
or a year, commencing with the number which
they first receive. The only continued article
yet published was the history of the first organ-
ization of the Female Relief society in Nauvoo,
by Sister Eliza R. Snow, which appeared in
the first and second numbers; and this, as we
we have before stated, it is the intention to re-
publish at an early day, that those who did not
receive the numbers in which it appeared may
be enabled to obtain it. The rapid increase in
circulation of the EXPONENT is most gratify-
ing, and if the friends of the little journal will
continue to assist us as they have done, we
hope by the close of the present volume to make
such improvements in it as will render it in
every way more efficient in accomplishing the
objects for which it was started. While thank-
ing all who have aided in extending its circula-
tion for their efforts in its behalf, we would still
request a continuance of those efforts, until the
EXPONENT is found in every family in Utah.


﻿FROM ST GEORGE.
			—
	ST. GEORGE, July 25th, 1872.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I, for one appreciate and admire the EX-
PONENT, and with pleasure note your energy,
progress and success, in this enterprise—
the voice of the “downtrodden;”' I being
one of them, speak whereof I know.
	St. George though not a great, populous,
nor yet an extensively commercial city, is
one of the handsomest and most quiet and
pleasant of all the cities of Utah. Our build-
ings, enclosures and other improvements,
generally and specially, show taste in de-
sign, and skill in workmanship, and may we
not generally reckon the intellectual status
of a place by its taste and industry? I think
so, and so I like St. George. Yesterday was
celebrated here by all citizens and many
visitors with much energy and zeal, our
sex having taken a prominent part. I send
you a copy of the programme which was
fully carried out, and I herewith enclose
copy of address, read by Miss Woodbury on
the occasion, composed by Miss Cottam and
Miss Woodbury. Its reading, elicited rounds
of applause, and congratulations for the au-
thors. The coronation ceremonies were
quite formal and imposing and one of the
finest features of the celebration.
				—
			ADDRESS
ON BEHAlF OF THE TWENTY-FOUR YOUNG LADIES.
				—
	“Having descended from a glorious ances-
try whose historic annals embrace the re-
gal power of David and his successors, the
princely Integrity of Joseph, and the beauti-
ful and devout Queen Esther who plead for
exiled Israel; as heirs of the same royal line
we have been brought to this goodly land.
	We have chosen and crowned our Queen,
and gladly celebrate the day that, through
our fathers, we enjoy the freedom of these
mountains and valleys. As daughters of
Zion we wish to demonstrate the apprecia-
tion of our rights and privileges. Removed
from the contaminating vices of the world,
in the peaceful vales of Deseret, surrounded
by our fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters,
and those who are near and dear to us, we
can live in the peaceful enjoyment of the
blessings which have been so bountifully
bestowed upon us. We are looked upon by
the women of the world, as not enjoying
the rights and privileges that they enjoy,
and as being degraded and downtrodden.
[2nd column]
What they consider a curse we consider a
blessing; and what they consider as de-
grading, we count as elevating. They pre-
fer to live in luxury and elegance, scarce
considering the degrading means adopted
to bring these; while we prefer becoming
honorable wives and mothers in Israel. Can
we be considered as degraded while enjoy-
ing the respect and esteem of honorable
men and women, and the confidence and
love of all we hold most dear? Let
disinterested persons answer and judge,
whether it is the women of Utah or those of
the world that need pity and condolence.
What greater blessings can woman wish for,
than we enjoy? True, we do not possess the
useless fineries and elegancies of the fashion-
able world; yet we have that which is of far
greater value to us—the enjoyment of our
religion, and the society and confidence of
the truly good—the saints of God; which is
more to us than all the pleasures that wealth
can afford. We live in innocence and sim-
plicity, and with industry and frugality, en-
joy with a clear conscience the comforts re-
sulting from industry, by the kindness of
our great Father.
	The world may have its own ideas of com-
fort; we have ours, and wish to enjoy them
unmolested. As for their sympathy, it has
oftener been shown in murdering our
Prophets and best men, and driving us and
dispoiling us of our property, than other-
wise.
	All we now ask, in the name of our
Queen, is liberty of thought, liberty of ac-
tion and the privilege of serving God accord-
ing to the dictates of our own consciences,
and our holy religion, which by the help of
the great King of Israel, we are determined
to sustain.”
	Weather is very warm and dry, mercury
going up to over 100° daily and sometimes
105°. We have very fine ripe peaches,
plums, pears and apples; and grapes of earli-
est kinds begin to ripen. All these are de-
licious at the cool evening hour, when fra-
grance from the rose and lily and a thousand
other flowers is wafted by the breeze that
gently stirs the foliage overhead, of our
“vine and fig tree,” the almond, prune,
acacia and the elm; after the fierce solar
heat has departed. Although some of the
“downtrodden women of Utah” might wish
to escape for a day with their “masters” to
the shady mountain glen, hear the sighing
of the pines, and take draughts from the pure
nectar springs, we know of none who wish
to make a wider escape from their “tyrant
husbands,” nor to leave far behind the fine
fruits, beautiful flowers and delicious even-
ings of our “Dixie;” and I may be pardoned
for here observing that although the “pecu-
liar institution” of our people is here widely
practiced (as any one might surmise by the
great number of childres of all ages exhibited
in the procession yesterday), we never
knew a more quiet, orderly cormmunity, or
one where less domestic troubles were ex-
perienced.						FLORA.
	The programme of the days proceedings
sent us, is highly interesting but too
lengthy for publication in our columns.—ED.


“I HEV allurs observed that a whining
dog is sure to get lickt in a fight. No cur
of well reggerlated morals kan resist the
temptation to bite a cowardly purp that tries
to sneak off with his tale between his legs.
The whinin’ business man is just so. A
good ringing bark is wuth more to put green-
bax in a man’s pocket than forty-two years
of whinin’ ”.—“Josh Billings.”


﻿SENSE shines, with a double lustre, when
it is set in humanity.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿ABOUT WOMEN.
			_____
	THE ladies of Albany are about to organ-
ize a Grant and Wilson Club.
	MRS. Greeley is said to be unable to walk,
and is in such poor health as to give Gree-
ley great anxiety about her.
	MRS. Stowe is announced for public read-
ings at New Haven in the Fall. She is
spending the Summer at Hampton Beach.
	THERE are six ordained female pastors in
the Universalist Church in the United
States. This is the only church where wo-
men are admitted to ordination.
	BY a new law, married women in Penn-
sylvania may purchase sewing-machines
without the consent of their husbands, and
the contract will be binding.
	MRS. Lincoln, the widow of the President,
has presented to the State of Illinois a very
valuable oil portrait of the late Colonel E.
D. Baker, a favorite son of Illinois.
	LAURA De Force Gordon is making her-
self famous in the East as an earnest and
eloquent pleader for the cause of Human
Rights.
	SOME Detroit women, of the practical
missionary stamp, lately visited a sick and
widowed neighbor, shingled her house,
planked her side-walk, picketed her fence,
painted one room and papered two, and split
and piled a load of slab wood.
	“HENRIETTA,” said a landlady to her
new girl, “when there’s bad news, particu-
larly private afflictions, always let the board-
ers know it before dinner. It may seem
strange to you, Henrietta, but such things
make a great difference in the eating in the
course of a year.”
	A MARRIED woman of the Shawnee
Indians made this beautiful reply to a man
whom she met in the woods, and who im-
plored her to love and look on him: “Old
man, my husband, who is forever before my
eyes, hinders me from seeing you, or any
other person.
	AN unhappy citizen of Cleveland, was re-
cently entrusted by his wife with the fol-
lowing message to her dressmaker: “Tell
her, dear, that if she thinks it would look
better with ten bias flounces without puff-
ing, and box plaited below the equator,
which should be hem-stitched gudgeons up
and down the seams, with a gusset stitch
between, she can make it up in that way in-
stead of fluting the bobinette insertion, and
piecing out with point applique as I sug-
gested yesterday.”
	A YOUNG HEROINE.—The Royal Humane
Society has awarded its medal, with suita-
ble testimonials, to a young woman, named
Annie Lord, the daughter of a bathing at-
tendant at Lynmouth, Devonshire, who, at
the imminent risk of her  life, saved a
young lady, named Fremlin from drowning.
The circumstances, as elicited by the Com-
mittee of the Society, were briefly as follows:
	Miss Fremlin, accompanied by another
lady, her sister-in-law, went into the sea to
bathe. The sea was very rough at the time,
as it was just after the turn of the tide, and
Miss Fremlin’s companion was struck by a
wave and carried out of her depth. Miss
Fremlin immediately hastened to her assist-
ance, but was herself swept out to sea, and
was in imminent danger of drowning, as no
one was near who was able to swim. Their
perilous position was witnessed by the bath-
ing attendant, who shouted for assistance,
when Annie Lord, who was in a cottage
near, hearing her mother’s cries for help,
ran to the rescue of the two ladies. She
undressed herself as she ran, divesting her-
[2nd column]
self of everything but her chemise, and
bravely plunged into the water. In the
meantime a crowd of people gathered on 
the beach with ropes, etc., but none were
bold enough to swim out. This, however,
Annie Lord did, and soon reached Miss 
Fremlin, who by this time had been carried
some distance out, and was perfectly help-
less, although her companion, whom she
had endeavored to save, had by this time
struggled to shallow water. Grasping Miss
Fremlin by her hair, Annie Lord supported
her, and swam, pushing the drowning lady
before her towards the shore; but Miss
Fremlin was quite insensible, and but for
the heroic perseverance of the young wo-
man, Annie Lord, must have inevitably
been drowned. The other lady, too, was
happily saved.


﻿SIMILARITIES.
				____
	When quite young, I remember reading a
story of some physicians, who experimented
on a young man, to ascertain if it were pos-
sible to frighten a person into a disease, of
which no symptoms were manifest, by mak-
ing him believe that he had taken the dis-
ease and was likely to die in consequence.
They made a joke of the experiment, car-
ried it a good way, and the poor boy was
actually scared into a fit of sickness, while
in a state, physically, of perfect health.
	To-day, while reading some articles, this
little anecdote was brought to my mind, and
I mentally compared our would-be physi-
cians, the moral, highminded (!) people of
the day, to those experimentists. We are,
in a word, all right, but these quacks would
like to frighten us into hysterics over our
situation,and make us believe we are crushd,
trampled on, benighted, and about to die.
One of them, (a lady editor,) says in an art-
icle headed “The wolf in sheep’s clothing,”
“Mormon women are powerless to help them-
selves out of their Church ; it is sad to say
that some of them are so blinded by ignor-
ance and bigotry as to consider that they are
serving God by suffering daily in this state
of polygamy; but even those who are en-
dowed with a higher order of intelligence,
and who would hail freedom from polygamy,
as did the Southern slave the emancipation
proclamation, dare not lift up their voices
against this incubus which is weighing
them down to servitude and degradation.
  	*	*	*	*	*	*
Let every reformer north, south, east and
west, come to the rescue of these Mormon
women, and hurl this Goliah to the earth.”
	Now, if we could only be brought to con-
sider that we are laboring under a terrible
“incubus, which is weighing, us down to
servitude and degradation;” as the strong,
heathy boy was made to see that his face
was spotted and swollen, his eyes red and
dilated with spotted fever, what a grand
terminus for the experiments of our would-
be physicians! “Ye Doctors, heal yonr-
selves!”								G.


﻿WHY WOMEN ARE WEAK.
				—
	When we consider what an intricate system
of defiance to all known physiological laws
a woman’s dress has become; the tender age
at which this defiance begins, and the re-
lentless pressure of it upon the formative
and the recuperative energies of the consti-
tution; the murderous thinness and scanti-
ness of her underdress; the effect of the ab-
sence of flannels, and the custom of baring
the neck and arms, upon the sensitive tis-
sues of the lungs and heart; the check to all
even circulation of the blood and healthy
condition of the skin inflicted by the imper-


feet and compressed covering of her feet
and hands; the unhealthy heat of the head,
consequent on the manner in which custom
requires her to collect her hair into a wad
of padding at the base of the brain; the
clasp of a rack of steel and whalebone about
all the vital organs of the body; the straight- 
jacket snap with which the seams of her
dress meet about her shoulders, arms and
chest; the results inevitable upon making
the hips the pivot upon which her heavy
clothing is hung, and the fulcrum upon
which all the motion of her body must
swing when walking—if, indeed, we apply
that term to the infantile toddle to which wo-
men are driven to get about the world;
above all, the unreasonable and cruel custom
which compels her to drop heavy skirts
about her lower limbs and feet, thus en-
dangering  her life on all occasions, her
health on any but a dry summer day, and 
her self-reliance forever; when we consider
the extent to which the common occupa-
tions of a woman deprive her of the open
air, of exercise, of change of scene, of ac-
quaintance with the world; of the extent to
which they are adapted to produce all the
varieties of sedentary disease; when we con- 
sider the unlimited influence of the mind
upon the body, of happiness upon health, and
the brooding morbidness and acute suffering
which the lives of women so largely induce
in them—shall we find it a matter of sur-
prise that women as a race are diseased and
feeble, and are bestowing upon the world 
a future legacy of diseased and feeble chil-
dren? Shall we wrap this ruined creature 
away in a shawl to die, and say, with sor-
rowful assurance: “Behold woman as God
made her?”
	Woman as God made her! As man and
the devil and her own cowardice have made
her! God never made such women as are
cradling the next generation in this land to- 
day. Side by side with “female illiteracy”
female feebleness is running a race among
us. Neglected brains and tortured bodies
are working their own way upon our actual
and possible mothers. Thoughtful physicians
are perplexed and alarmed. We are a
beautiful, useful and elevated order of ani- 
mals; the world has done the right thing by
us; it stalled and fed us; it has petted and
praised us; who can complain?—Elizabeth
Stuart Phelps.


﻿THE GARDEN FOR WOMEN.
	There is nothing better, says the Ohio 
“Farmer,” for wives and daughters phys-
ically than to have the care of a garden; a
flower-pot if nothing more. What is more
pleasant than to spend a portion of every day
in working among plants and watching the
growth of shrubs and trees and herbage, and
to observe the opening of flowers, from
week to week, as the season advances?
Then how much it adds to the enjoyment to
know that your own hands have planted and
tilled them and have pruned and trained
them. This is a pleasure that requires
neither great riches nor profound know-
ledge. The wife or daughter, who loves
home, and would seek ever to make it the
best place for husband or brother, is willing
to forego some gossiping morning calls for
the sake of having leisure for the cultiva-
tion of plants, shrubs and flowers. The ad-
vantages which women personally derive
from stirring the soil and snuffing the morn-
ing air are freshness and beauty of cheek
and brightness of eye, cheerfulness of
temper, vigor of mind, and purity of heart.
Consequently she is more cheerful and
lovely as a daughter, more dignified and
womanly as a sister, and more attractive and
confiding as a wife.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿DON’T ALWAYS FLIRT.
					—
Don't always flirt; dearest Bessie, believe me,
	You will repent it some day if you do;
Come, now, as some sage old mentor receive me,
	Take my advice, lest your conduct you rue.
Perhaps it’s good fun young men’s feelings to hurt.
Don’t always flirt, though, Bess—don’t always flirt.

True, you can count your fond slaves, dear, by
		dozens—
	All the young men you have got at your feet;
True, you are worshiped by all your male cousins,
	True, all the “belles” of the season you’ve beatl
Granted all this, Bess! you may be too curt,
Too great a flirt, Bessie—too great a flirt!

Time is going on, darling, seasons are hastening;
	Pardon me, but even you must grow old;
Think, now; if you are not good chances wasting;
	Don’t, now, I pray you, imagine me bold.
Really, though, I must my words assert,
Don’t always flirt, Bessie—don’t always flirt!

Young men who now gladly bear your caprices,
	Slaves who’re too happy to suffer your slights,
Perhaps as their knowledge of women increases,
	May not so willingly give up their rights!
Men may be ready to rudely out blurt,
You are a flirt, Bessie—you are a flirt!

Come, then, at present you have half society
	Only too glad to find grace in your eyes;
Have you not, then, had enough of variety?
	Cannot you settle to one, and be wise?
Don’t treat us always as though we were dirt.
Don’t always flirt, Bessie—don’t always flirt!

If I might venture—I know it’s audacious—
   To push my own claims, why, then, Bessie, ma
	chere,
I should be charmed, indeed, if you’d be gracious,
	And trust your dear self from henceforth to my
		care;
Promising only, all rows to avert,
That you wont flirt, Bessie—that you won’t flirt.


﻿A THUNDER STORM ON THE MISSIS-
				SIPPI.
				  —
		[FROM A LADY’S SCRAP BOOK.]
	I shall never forget that night of terror!
How the thunders crashed and the waters 
roared! How the forked lightning flashed
and gleamed, and the boat rolled and tossed
on the river, and how intensely dark the
night was! There were no empty berths
for us to lie down in, and had there been,
what sleep or rest could have been taken!
I had never before witnessed a storm in
America, and, possibly, for that reason it all
seemed more dreadful to me than it might
have done had I been accustomed to such
terrific thunderings and lightnings.
	During the storm—O, it is so horrify-
ing to think of the awful calamity which
befell my poor sister Helen! Her little
daughter followed her father on deck, but
not noticing, he returned without her. We
never saw her again. It was supposed she
walked over board into that angry river.
No trace of her could be found. Though
she could not have existed more than a
minute in the dashing waters we imagined
the little arms which could not have been
seen in the darkness, reaching out for help,
and the childish voice which could not have
been heard in the midst of the roar of the
storm and the waters, calling on us for aid,
long, long after the storm abated and the
day dawned upon us.
	The little one’s sufferings could not have
been much—but the parents—O, how heart-
rending to witness their distress!


﻿THE noblest deeds of many great men’s
lives are private benefactions performed for
humble, undistinguished individuals, of
which the world keeps no account.


IT is said that the Millerites, at Foxboro,
Massachusetts, expected the world to come
to an end July 3rd, and they put on their
robes and waited. But they soon discovered
as the world went on as usual, that they had
made a mistake in their ciphering.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.
			____
	THE French Assembly adjourned on the
4th.
	Gris, the “Fat Contributor,” has started
a weekly paper in Cincinnati.
	There are seventeen newspapers in Jap-
an, the youngest one having been started
in April.
	A skull twenty-six inches in circumfer-
ence above the ears has been dug up at Du-
buque, Iowa.
	The Irish band has split, some sailing for
home with the leader, and the others re-
maining in this country.
	General Berdan, of sharpshooting fame,
is trying to induce the Czar of Russia to buy
more of his guns.
	In Australia spring begins August 20th;
summer, November 20th; autumn, February,
20, and winter, May 20th.
	The magnificent railway station at Metz
was burned, making the fourth large fire in
that city within twelve months.
	Governor Brown still sticks to the opin-
ion that Grant will only carry three States,
all the Radical press to the contrary not-
withstanding.
	Rock Island has tested her new Holly
water works and is delighted over the re-
sults. The capacity of the works is 2,000,-
000 gallons in twenty-four hours.
	John T. Wood, Assistant Postmaster of
Indianapolis, Ind., has been discovered to
be a defaulter to the amount of $4,000 or
$5,000. He has been arrested and bailed.
	The veteran financial editor in the Uni-
ted States is Sailer, of the Philadelphia
“Ledger.” He has written the money
articles of that journal for a period of thirty-
two years and over.
	The brother of Miss Vinnie Ream, the
sculptress and pet of Congress, has been
sentenced by the United States Court at Fort
Smith, Arkansas, to serve six months in the
penitentiary at Little Rock and pay a fine of
$1,000 for selling liquor in the Indian
Nation.
	Six of the members of the New York 
Republican Commitiee have resigned and
declared for Greeley and Brown. The last
of the six is Mr. Wallace Tappan, of Syra-
cuse, who is well known to prominent Re-
publicans.
	Major General Mott, formerly of the
United States army, but now Major General
of the Egyptian army, and aid-de-camp to
the Viceroy, is on a visit to this country,
and was presented to Secretary Belknap by
Acting Secretary Richardson.
	In Gold Hill District, eight miles north-
west of Bowlder, Colorado, what is termed
a mica mine has been discovered. The vein
commences near the surface, extends down-
ward and appears to be about three feet in
thickness. Sheets of it are obtained near
half a foot square, thin as tissue and as
transparent as glass.
	Ashtabula County, the old home of Mr.
Giddings, in Ohio, is the strongest Republi-
can County in that State, but its Republican
newspaper of largest circulation supports
Greeley and Brown, and at least 20 per cent.
of the Republicans are already counted as
sure for the ticket.
	The girls of the St. Louis Normal School,
it is stated, all wear calico dresses; and if
they continue the same sensible practice
through life they will make all the better
wives, and mothers setting an excellent ex-
ample before their daughters.


﻿	PEN AND SCISSORS.
				—
	MANY errors which we see in others we
convert into virtues in ourselves.
	HATS with thermometers in the roof are
the latest invention. If the mercury gets
too high you stand on your head until your
equilibrium is restored.
	MISS Emma S. Eastman, of Worcester, a
former student of Vassar College, and Miss
Sophia B. Fleming, of Ithaca, N. Y., are the
first lady students at Cornell.
	AN intelligent writer, closes a letter to his
employer thus, “I remain very sincerely,
your friend and mule puncher, J. I.”
	“HAVE you had an invitation to the
ball?” asked a bashful gentleman of a young
lady. “Yes sir,” said the lady, to which
he replied hastily, “O! well, I did not come
to invite you, I only thought I’d like to
know if you were going to be there.”
	MR. J. J. Adams and the late Surveyor
General, and now Senator, Mr. Phineas Post
Office Hitchcock, had an interview on the
streets of Omaha.
	P. W. H.—“Did I ever pay you five cents
for a vote, Mr. Adams?”
	A.—“You never did, but I sold you two
votes for the Senate, and the bargain was
made in the presence of United States Dis-
trict Judge E. S. Dundy and Hon. John I.
Redick. Do you dare to deny it? If you
do, you and I for it.”
	The redoubtable Senator did not deny the
assertions of Adams, who makes good his
statements to Dr. Child and Judge Hyde,
and crams them down the throat of Hitch-
cock himself.—“Omaha Herald.”
	M. D. CONWAY says that Miss Kate Field’s
successful after-dinner venture in London
will probably have the effect of breaking
down prejudices against female post-pran-
dial privileges.
	MR. Proctor thinks that the great explo-
sion on the sun, witnessed by Prof. Young
in September last, indicated a force sufficient
to project matter beyond the sphere of solar
attraction. His opinion strengthens the
hypothesis that many of our meteors were
ejected by the sun.
	SAYS the “Golden Age,” The courtesies
of the White House, during the next Ad-
ministration, will be administered by Miss
Ida Greeley, the Presindnt’s handsome
daughter, a sweet little woman of the most
winsome kind.
	OF the sixty-four chemical elements
which compose our globe, nineteen have
been found in meteorites, and as no single
element has been discovered in them which
was not previously known on earth, it is
supposed that the most distant parts of the
universe are similar in composition to our
sphere.
	THE Sacramento “Daily Union” says:
“The Gentile sisters at Salt Lake City wear
silks at church-goings and flash their
diamonds in the eyes of their Mormon sis-
ters. The female adherents of the prophet
don’t like the contrast very much.”
	Dont they, indeed! If any one has
noticed an expression of sadness on the face
of a humble, plainly attired Mormon lady
while coming in contact with her gaudily
dressed “Gentile sister,” it has been elicited
by feelings of sympathy for the poor, unin-
telligent creature who can so inconsiderately
waste time and money.
	MRS. MARY F. SNOW, of the Pacific Slope
Woman Suffrage Convention, says that a
great many more men than women, propor-
tionately, seem to realize the necessity and
favor the enfranchisement of women.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN a little village in Vermont there lived
a farmer named Ransom. They were not
pious people—father of the reprobate order;
in fact, they never went to church. Once,
however, the family were prevailed upon to
attend preaching. When they made their
reluctant and tardy appearance the services
had begun, and they had hardly taken their
seats when the preacher gave out the first
hymn, reading it somewhat thus: “Return,
ye ransom sinners home.” “All right,” cried
the head of the Ransoms, getting in a rage
and clapping his hat on his head. “Come
along, ole woman and gals, we’ll go home
fast enough, and everybody in this ole church
knows we didn’t want to come.”
	MEDICAL societies are warned not to ask
a certain Western minister to preach for 
them. He has this text ready: “In his
disease Asa sought not to the Lord, but to
the physicians. And Asa slept with his
fathers.”
	THE ENGLISH papers have ceased deriding
the Tichborne claimant, and admit that his
his case is “rising almost to its former dig-
nity and interest.”
	“A WOMAN lives for love alone,” but love
must come in a variety of forms, such as ma-
terial for clothing, and bread and butter, &c.
Praises and kisses “alone” will not suffice.


Z. C. M. I.

	RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.

	We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
riety of our Patrons.
			
	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated 
		SALT LAKE GLOVES.
	Children's Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty.
	While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics
of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,
Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-
est possible figure.
					—
				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup't.

LADIES :
			—
	Go to Taylor & Cutler’s for Dress Goods, No-
tions, etc. Also the Cheapest Store for Family Gro-
ceries in town.  Call and see.

WEED SEWING MACHINES.

		Stitch Alike on Both Sides.
The Lightest Running
			SHUTTLE MACHINE
									In the World.
	Sews Fine and Coarse. No Springs nor Cogs. No
taking, apart to. Oil or Clean it.
	Send for Circular to 97 Kimball Block, Salt Lake
City								IRA	PFOUTZ,	Ag’t.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.
[new column]
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

DR. W. H. GROVES,
						DENTIST,
	Office Second South Street. Three doors west of 
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant 
Store, Salt Lake City.
			Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

LADIES' BAZAR.
		MRS. WILKINSON,
FASHIONABLE MILLINER AND DRESSMAKER.
	Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Millinery, Straw
Goods, and all kinds of fancy and Staple Dry Goods.
	Sole agent for the Territory for M'me Demorest's
reliable paper patterns. Orders from the country so-
licited; patterns sent by mail. Removed to the new 
Establishment, 1st South St., next door west of Z. C.
M. I. Wholesale Dry Goods Department.

			JOHNSON'S

	HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES!

Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-

ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.

	BONESET PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe by removing 
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.

	EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or 
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.

	CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in 
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.

	ESSENCE OF  LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills. Price 50 cents.

	These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at

	ZION'S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,

Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.
	
	If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to 
send for them.
	
	Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.	
	
	AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.

From the Laboratory of
						J. E. JOHNSON,
						   St. George, Utah.
	
[new column]


	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	A UTAH LADIES’ JOURNAL.

	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.

	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.

	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!"

	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.

	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.

	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.

	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing, labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.	
	
	Miss Eliza R. Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.

	WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.	
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.

	TERMS, Strictly in Advance: 		
  1Copy one year,     $2.00	1 Copy six months,    $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months, 9.00

	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents.
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

	Address all communications and  subscriptions,
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


Woman's Exponent . 		

VOL. I. 			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1872.


NEWS AND VIEWS.

	IT IS now generally conceded that the
colored vote of the country will be cast
almost solid for Grant.
	PARIS HAS nearly six thousand less of
population now than in 1866. War is a ter-
rible enemy to population.
	MAINE HOLDS its election on the 9th inst.
Both the Grant and Greeley parties are
making strenuous efforts to secure a victory.
 	THE CLERGYMEN of Wilmington, Dela-
ware, are on a "strike," demanding new
terms for attending funerals. What next!
	CAMP MEETINGS are in full blast through 
the country, yet the ranks of the uncon-
verted are but little thinned, while religious
insanity increases.
	THE GENEVA board of arbitrators, to set-
tle the difficulties between England and
America, are reported nearly through their
work. At last!
	CARLYLE SAYS he has no faith in any
man now controlling public affairs. This is
hard on Blanton Duncan of the "straight
out" Democrats.
	J. P. NEWMAN and Henry Ward Beecher
favor croquet. There is one other thing,
besides Grant, on which they are in accord.
Is this the foreshadowing of the millen-
nium?
	THE DIAMOND mania has reached Salt 
Lake, and "gem-hunting expeditions" are
moving towards the borders of New Mexico
and Arizona. Expeditions to hunt the dia-
monds of truth are still scarce.
	THE ELEMENTAL war raged furiously in
many parts of the east during last month,
and numerous deaths from lightning were
reported. Are the elements preparing to
"melt with fervent heat?"
	THEODORE TILTON says U. S. Grant and
Horace Greeley drink more whiskey than 
any other two men in the United States,
and that Greeley doesn't drink a drop. The-
odore is more pointed than polite.
	FIFTY thousand dollars, Mr. Stanley says,
his Livingstone expedition cost the New 
York "Herald," and now the question is
being asked, what is to be the paying result
of the discovery? Mercenary age!
	THE ITALIAN Republicans are split into
two factions, the Mazzinians and Interna-
tionalists, each hostile to the other, and
both hostile to the Government; and thus
the democracy of Europe emulate that of 
the United States.
	THE San Francisco "Pioneer," woman's
rights paper, repudiates Grant and Greeley,
and strongly advocates George Francis
Train for President. Unfortunately women, 
in States, are yet powerless at the polls, and
the sisterhood can do but little for the "next
President of America."
	IT IS reported that two millions of people
have already perished by the famine in Per-
sia, of whom one hundred thousand have
died in the city of Teheran alone. And yet
how little do we hear of its horrors? And 
what is being done to relieve the suffering 
and dying? Is the charity of Christian na-
tions asleep?
	THE TEMPERANCE party is troubled
whether to support General Grant, who it
is admitted uses alcoholic liquors, or Horace
Greeley, who is a total abstainer; and re-
gret that neither the Philadelphia nor Balti-
more conventions put a temperance plank 
in their platforms. To be consistent they 
should support the cold water candidate.
	A COLORED prayer meeting was "arrest-
ed" in Richmond, Virginia, on August 19;
and "parson, deacons, converts, penitents,
brethren and sisters" were rudely conveyed
to the police station on a charge of disor-
derly conduct, where the Judge discharged
them with the injunction to "go and sin no
more!" Probably they were practicing 
camp meeting religion.
	LOVE and patriotism are made to play 
severely against each other in Alsace and 
Lorraine, the departments wrested from
France during the late war. The German 
government has informed the ladies of
those departments, that the brothers and 
lovers of such of them as are most violent
in their demonstrations of hostility to Ger-
many, will be selected to serve in the Ger-
man army after the 1st of October. This is
the refinement of tyranny.
	SECRETARY Boutwell made a speech dur-
ing the North Carolina canvass, which is
likely to work serious consequences. He
endeavored to rekindle the bitter feelings of 
the war, and urged upon the negroes that
the success of the Conservative party would
result in their being placed back in slavery. 
The feelings of animosity caused by such
political speeches, are strong enough to pro-
voke, at no very distant day, a war of races
which might become even more terrible
than the war of secession.
	MR. CLAGGETT, Delegate in Congress
from Montana, who manifested such bitter-
ness during the last session against the Mor-
mons, sought re-election at the hands of his
constituents last month, and was respect-
ably shelved, Mr. Maginnis, his opponent,
being elected by a handsome majority.
After the 4th of next March Mr. Claggett
may air his anti-Mormon views anywhere
he pleases—except in Congress. He has 
been retired with Colfax, Cullom, Bingham
and others. "The mills of the Gods grind
slowly."
	IT IS reliably stated that at Niles, Michi-
gan, recently, a white girl desiring to marry
a negro, and being unable to take the oath 
that she had negro blood in her, tapped the 
arm of her sable lover with a penknife,
sopped a piece of bread in his blood, swal-
lowed it, hurried to the magistrate’s office,
swore that she had negro blood in her, and 
was married. Whatever may be thought
of her determination, her taste was ex-
ecrable; but she was bent on legal miscege-
nation, and cheated the law by an evasion 
which amounted to perjury.
	MR. GREELEY made a political speech at
Portland, Maine, on the 14th of August,
 the first he made since his dual nomination;
and of it the New York "Herald," which
has until lately been a strong administra-
tion paper, says, it "will disappoint those
who seem to believe that it is impossible
for a man of genius and talent to talk in a
practical sensible manner." And, again,
"the speech is a neat, shrewd, little affair,
and will not harm the liberal candidate."
It was a candid, manly, honest statement of
facts, and a denial of several political calum-
nies uttered against him.
	THE savants of Zurich, Switzerland, are
somewhat narrow-minded. The professors
of the University in that city, being unani-
mously opposed to the admission of further
female students, intend to apply to the fed-
eral government of the republic for a bill
restricting the rights of studentship to
males. Why do they not go a little further, 
and restrict the number of males? These
antiquated specimens of book-worms do not
seem to be aware that the world moves, and
that woman is asserting her right to the 
possession of knowledge; a right which all
progressive minds are now freely conceding.
	STRANGE, is it not, that Charles Sumner,
so long the favored son of Massachusetts,
should be berated by the press of the State
in the most bitter manner! But such is
popular favor. The idol of to-day is to-
morrow flung in the dust and trampled un-
der foot. Even the negroes, in whose behalf
the better part of Sumner's sixty-two years
has been spent, turn against him and repu-
diate him. And all this because he will
not play demagogue, but looking at the
present and future of the country as a states-
man, he sees danger in the policy of the
administration, and declares his hostility
to it.
	THE METHODIST Book Concern, of New
York, the rascality connected with which 
raised such a stench through the country a
short time ago, objects to a Greeley and
Brown banner in front of the building, and
asks for its removal. Dr. J. P. Newman,
who was so anxious to make political capi-
tal out of the discussion with Professor Or-
son Pratt in this city, and so signally failed,
is doubtless among those who are at the
bottom of this bit of spleen, as he is endeav-
oring to manipulate the Methodist church
for the re-election of President Grant. "No
union of politics and religion" has been a
favorite cry with many of the enemies of 
the "Mormon" people; yet such union is 
very distinct, and being used for personal
purposes with considerable effect, during
the present Presidential campaign.
	FEARFUL RIOTS have occurred in Belfast,
the chief city of the north of Ireland. Com-
mencing on the 15th of August they con-
tinued for a week, during which a
number of lives were lost and a vast amount 
of property was destroyed. The rioters
were Protestant and Roman Catholic mobs.
that in their zeal to prove the superiority
of their respective creeds, shed blood, pil-
laged and destroyed. And each party pro-
fesses to believe in the Prince of Peace; in
a gospel of love and salvation! And to
show that they do so, they act like fiends,
trampling every God-like principle under-
foot, and practicing a faith of hate, revenge
and murder! No wonder infidelity grows
among intelligent men and women who are
unacquainted with the gospel of truth; for
who could intelligently consider such acts,
and reflect that the teachings of priests and 
clergymen have caused them, without being
satisfied that there was something radically
wrong in the systems which produce such
results.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿TO MY PEN.
				—
And shall I take thee up again, old friend,
And in the cause of truth my weak voice blend; 
Remove from off thy point the gathering rust
And to the weary whisper hope and trust ?
I know the value of a word of cheer,
For strongest hearts grow faint; but God is near,
Guiding our frail barks through the darkest storm,
And while we trust to him we’ro safe from harm.

Methinks I hear thee say again to-day—
“Better to work than rust; this life away;
Better to plant, although it seem in vain;
The seed may reach good soil and grow again.”

The field is broad and long, the workers few
Whose hands are willing and whose hearts are
	true;
And none but such the harvest Master calls
His grain to garner ere the tempest falls—

His storm of wrath, upon the sin-stained world:
Where wrong has gained the power and truth been
	hurled
From her high throne, and crushed and trampled
	down—
Come, all ye brave and help regain her crown.

Long has the cry been sounding in my ear,
Long have I seen the pain, the bitter tear,
Wrung from the suff'ring ones on life’s hard road,
Who onward struggle ’neath sin’s heavy load.

We're weak, my pen, but then Truth's Leader’s
	strong.
And unto her must yield all powers of wrong;
If her defenders be but true and brave,
Truth will not always be a fettered slave.
										H.


﻿F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
				  —
	The following, under date of August
18th, is from Mrs. Julia Lindsey, President
of the F. R. Society of Paris, Rich county,
Bear Lake valley:
	Money is very scarce in this part of the
country, owing to our crops having been de-
stroyed repeatedly, by frost and that terrible
scourge the grasshoppers, which has kept
the people in rather poor circumstances.
But we trust in God, and hope for better
days. We had quite severe frosts the latter
part of July, and it was at first supposed
our wheat crop was all killed; but time has
proved that it is not injured as badly as was
at first feared, which we are very thankful
for. Our society donated quite a sum to
the emigration fund, though small, I pre-
sume, in comparison with some other socie-
ties; but the fault was not in the heart but
in the purse. Our society is still alive, but
for the reasons stated above, we have not
accomplished as much as we should have
done, under more favorable circumstances.
We have our regular meetings once a fort-
night, which are not always very numer-
ously attended. But there are a number of
good, faithful sisters, who would be a bless-
ing to any society, who are determined,
with the help of God, to hold the society
together in spite of the slackness of the
few, and accomplish all the good they can.


A GOOD EXAMPLE.—A little girl, seven
years old, earned by her own labor two dol-
lars, which she has donated to the fund for
the emigration of the poor. She is the
daughter of Mrs. Cowley of the 14th ward,
of this city. This speaks well for mother
and child. Who will follow the example?
Boys and girls, remember the poor, and
God will remember you.		W. E.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
				——
	MRS. ABELL says: “A woman who has
the habit of observing closely, knows so
well what belongs to social and domestic
comfort, that she never enters a room of her
own dwelling without seeing in an instant
every trifle upon which comfort so much de-


pends. If the fire is too low or the hearth
unswept, if the chairs are not standing in
their places, or books and papers disar-
ranged, her quick and well-trained eye de-
tects in an instant what is wanting to com-
plete the pleasant air of comfort and order
which belongs to her to diffuse over her
whole household.  While, on the other
hand, if her attention has never been directed
to these matters, she may sit down without
once perceiving that the chairs are in dis-
order, drawers left open, the hearth-rug
turned up, the fire smoking, the room too
dark, or the sun pouring in its fiercest rays
to the damage of carpets. A woman want-
ing in this habit of observation, though
actuated by kindly feelings, will be guilty
of much neglect and be likely to have the
reputation of unkindness or ill-breeding.”
	LEMON DUMPLINGS.—With ten ounces of
fine bread-crumbs mix one large tablespoon-
ful of flour, half a pound of finely chopped
beef suet, the grated rinds of two small
lemons, four ounces of pounded sugar, three
large eggs, beaten and strained, and last of
all, the juice of the two lemons, also strained.
Divide the mixture into four dumplings, tie
them in well-floured cloths, and let them
boil an hour.
	LEMON TART.—Take half a pound of
lump sugar, slice three lemons, and lay them
in the sugar for the night; cover the bot-
tom of the dish with a pound of biscuits,
lay over them slices of candied orange and
lemon-peel, four ounces of pounded almonds,
and one of butter; put in the sugar and
lemons, and cross-bar the top.
	SCALLOPED MEAT.—Take any kind of
cold roast meat, cut it into exceedingly thin
slices of about an inch across, season it well,
pour over it enough wine, gravy, and melted
butter to moisten, place it in buttered scal-
lop shells, sprinkle bread-crumbs pretty
thickly on the top, and place them in a hot
oven till well browned; cold rabbit, sweet-
breads, poultry, veal, and different kinds of
fish, are specially adapted for coquilles.
Serve in the shells.
	HOUSEKEEPERS should heed the following:
When a carpet is taken up to be cleaned, the
floor beneath is generally covered with dust.
This dust is fine and dry, and poisonous to
the lungs; before removing it, sprinkle the
floor with diluted carbolic acid, to kill any
poisonous germs that may be present, and
to thoroughly disinfect the floor and make
it sweet.
	WALNUT CATSUP.—Beat about a hundred
green walnuts in a marble mortar till they
are completely broken, and then put them
into a stone jar, with half a pound of es-
chalots cut in slices, one head of garlic, half
a pound of salt, and two quarts of vinegar;
allow them to stand for ten or twelve days,
stirring them night and morning; strain off
the liquor, and boil it for half an hour, add-
ing two ounces of anchovies, two of whole
pepper, half an ounce of cloves, and a quar-
ter of an ounce of mace; skim it well, strain,
and when perfectly cold, pour it gently from
the sediment into small bottles; secure from
the air by sound corking, and store it in a
dry place. The sediment is usually reserved
for flavoring sauces.


﻿“WELL, I did not think, when I married
you, that you would grow to be such a goose!”
said a young married man to his bride, who
was pouting because she could not go to a
party in the evening. “Neither did I,”
she replied, “but your mother was telling
me, only yesterday, how much I was grow-
ing into your ways.” Both laughed, and
they concluded to make up and be good-na-
tured.


CLOUDS.
			     —
	How much the face of nature, in its vari-
ous aspects, resembles the hearts and lives
of human beings! Sometimes the sky ap-
pears so clear and beautiful one could almost
imagine that never again would storm clouds
gather to mar the loveliness and regularity
of its soft blue features; and the lives of in-
dividuals often seem the same. There is
nothing to distress or to disturb; all is sun-
shine, peace and tranquillity. But, as over
the summer sky, shadows creep, almost im-
perceptible at first, the tiny white clouds
that dot the brilliant azure in varied forms
growing larger and darker, until the rain
drops begin to descend, and thickening and
blackening into terrible tempestuous war-
riors arrayed against the humbler elements;
so also is the serenity of the soul often over-
cast with clouds of sorrow and regret; clouds
that appear too small and trifling at first to
shade the glorious sunlight of mental peace,
or tend to make earth’s garden less a para-
dise to the inexperienced and innocent;
yet, clouds that will sometimes expand and
gather blackness till they shut out all the
light, and then, triumphant, shower down
their wrath upon the poor, unsheltered hu-
man heart. But every cloud must have
spent all its fury and poured out all its sor-
rowing tears in some great hearts, that
seem to have been tried to the core, and to
have overcome temptations, until the adver-
sary has no further power with them to
tempt or to annoy. I have known a few in-
dividuals whom I believed to possess such
hearts, and to me they are the happiest and
most loveable of all earth’s inhabitants. If
a gloom would settle over those around
them, they seem to have the power to
chase it off. They are those who have
learned to acknowledge the hand of God in
all things; who have overcome selfishness.
For this one demon—selfishness—is the
foundation of evil and unhappiness. And
till the heart has overcome this fiend, clouds
of remorse and gloom will never cease to
throw their shadows o’er its otherwise
cheerful and blissful course.
								L.


CHILDREN.—“I like children," he said
to me one day at the table. “I like ’em,
and respect ’em. Pretty much all the honest
truth-telling there is in the world is done
by them. Do you know they play the part
in the household which the king’s jester,
who very often had a mighty long head under
his cap and bells, used to play for a
monarch? There’s no radical club like a
nest of little folks in a nursery. Did you
ever watch a baby's fingers? I have, often
enough, though I never knew what it was
to own one.” The master paused for half a
minute or so, sighed—perhaps at thinking
what he had missed in life—looked up at
me a little vacantly. I saw what was the
matter; he had lost the thread of his talk.
	“Baby’s fingers,” I intercalated.
	“Yes, yes. Did you ever see how they
will poke those wonderful little fingers of
theirs into every fold and crack and crevice
they can get at? That is their first educa-
tion—feeling their way into the solid facts
of the material world. When they begin
to talk, it is the same thing over again in
another shape. If there is a crack or a flaw
in your answer to the shoulder-hitting ques-
tions, they will poke and poke until they have
got it gaping just as the baby’s fingers have
made a rent out of the atom of a hole in
his pinafore that your old eyes never took
notice of. Then they make such fools of
us by copying on a small scale what we do
in a grand manner.”—“Dr. O. W. Holmes."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.				
﻿


﻿FLOWERS BY THE WAYSIDE.
			      —
	To acquire a capacity for happiness, first
rectify inward disorder.
	HE who enlists in any worthy enterprise,
should not consider an ultimate failure pos-
sible.
	Algona, Iowa, which was twenty years
ago a naked prairie, is now finishing off its
second court house.
	SOME people talk with their eyes more
eloquently than others, can with their na-
tural organ or speech.
	THE favorite method of disposing of
mysterious disappearances in Cincinnati is
to head them up in a salt barrel.
	NO position however great, no possessions
however desirable, can make us blest unless
we feel ourselves deserving of them.
	PLEASURE is perfect only when it harmo-
nizes with our permanent interests; no de-
light can be enduring which interferes with
duty.
	MORAL and religious instruction derives
its efficacy, not so much from what men are
taught to know, as from what they are made
to feel.
	OF WHAT character is your conversation?
Whatever it may be, be assured it is an un-
erring index to your heart. The tree is
known by its fruit.
	TO BE truly great, or sincerely happy, use-
fulness and beneficence, not ostentation and
vanity, must direct the train of thought and
influence words and actions.
	TEMPERANCE, by fortifying the mind and
body, leads to happiness; intemperance, by
enervating them, endangers the health and
peace of both, and ends in misery.
	A LUNATIC has turned up in Chicago in
the role of Diogenes, hunting for an honest
man with a lantern. The poor fellow might
as well make up his mind to die there.
	WHEN we observe a tendency to treat re-
ligion or morals with disrespect and levity,
we may hold it as a sure indication of a per-
verted understanding or a depraved heart.
	TRUE beauty is a soul refined, true wealth
the riches of the mind; let woman give but
little thought to loveliness of face, nor sigh
for power that in the purse alone hath dwel-
ling-place.
	EVERY degree of guilt incurred by yield-
ing to temptation, tends to debase the mind,
weaken the generous and benevolent prin-
ciples of human nature, and make cowards
of its victims.
	THERE is a reverend gentleman in Min-
nesota who spends his Sundays in prophesy-
ing that the world will not outlast the
present summer, and yet he has sown 100
acres of wheat.
	MANY people imagine themselves pat-
terns or at least as good as the average of
husbands and wives, who daily crucify the
spirit of their companion, making life al-
most loathsome.
	LUXURY, pride and vanity, have frequent-
ly as much influence in corrupting the sen-
timents of the great, as ignorance, bigotry
and prejudice have in misleading the opin-
ions of the multitude.
	IF WE desire to make others happy, we
must haste to give while our gifts can be
enjoyed, and remember that every moment
of delay takes away something from the
value of a benefaction.
	IT IS useless to endeavor to satisfy the
constant demands of the selfish and ungrate-
ful, for the more you give the more un-
grateful do they become, and the harder
will they speak against you.


﻿HEREDITARY INFLUENCES.—It is dis-
tinctly asserted by professor Lucas, and
agreed to by others, that predisposition to
any form of disease or any malformation
may become an inheritance. Thus disease
of the heart is hereditary; so are tubercles
in the lungs; so also are diseases of the
brain, of the liver, and of the kidney; so
are diseases of the eye and of the ear. Gen-
eral maladies are equally inheritable, as
gout and madness. Longevity on the one
hand and premature deaths on the other
go by descent. If we consider a class of
peculiarities more recondite in their origin
than these, we shall still find the law of in-
heritance to hold good. A morbid suscepti-
bility to contagious disease, or to the poison-
ous effects of opium or of calomel, and an
aversion to the taste of meat, are all found
to be inherited. So is craving for strong
drink or gambling, strong sexual passion, a
proclivity to pauperism, to crimes of vio-
lence, and to crimes of fraud. There are
certain marked types of character justly as-
sociated with marked types of feature and
of temperament. We hold, axiomatically,
that the latter are inherited (the case being
too notorious, and too consistent with the
analogy afforded by brute animals, to render
argument necessary), and we therefore infer
the same of the former. For instance, the
face of the combatant is square, coarse, and
heavily jawed. It differs from that of the
ascetic, the voluptuary, the dreamer and
the charlatan. Still more strongly marked
than these, are the typical features and
characters of different races of men. The
Mongolians, Jews, negroes, Gipsies, and
American Indians, severally propagate their
kinds; and each kind differs in character
and intellect, as well as in color or shape,
from the other four. They, and a vast
number of other races, form a class of in-
stances worthy of close investigation, in
which peculiarities of character are invari-
ably transmitted from the parents to the off-
spring.—“Francis Galten.”


﻿A GENTLEMAN in the cars the other day,
so far forgot himself as to place his foot,
boot and all, rather hastily upon the
shoulder of a lady who sat front of him;
and when apologizing for the overt and
somewhat ludicrous action, said he thought
he must have been partially asleep, could
hardly believe he would have done such a
thing had he been fairly awake. Gentle-
men would do well to guard against snooz-
ing in the cars, when there are ladies near,
who, unquestionably would prefer being en-
tertained colloquially, to being somnolently
kicked at. Of course the infractor was one
of our “Mormon tyrants.” But let us have
the best coloring on the outside—it was his
neighbor’s wife and not his own that he
booted.


﻿A SOMEWHAT notable tribute has just been
paid to an American artist by the lord
mayor of London. His honor having vis-
ited Munich lately, there entered the studio
of David Neal. He found him just finish-
ing a picture of Watt as a boy, studying the
power of steam. The boy is seated in the
chimney corner, watching the tea-kettle.
His mother has opened the door, and scolds
him pleasantly, as her face indicates, for ab-
senting himself from the family eating
meal, which is seen going on in another
room through the half-opened door. The
mayor invited Neal to name his own price
for the picture, and it will henceforth grace
the Mansion House in London.


A VETERAN lady, whose sons are all
grown to be big boys, either reverentially
or ironically calls her new dog “Grant.”


﻿PEN AND SCISSORS.

	A SPRING bed—a bed of radishes.

	THERE can certainly be no greater felicity
than to be able to look back on a life use-
fully and virtuously employed, and to trace
our own progress in existence by such
tokens as excite neither shame nor sorrow.
	WHAT is the ultimate scope of our present
pursuits? Are they, as they should be, such
that we can justify them to ourselves, and
likely to produce anything that will survive
the moment and bring forth some fruit for
futurity?
	LITTLE Robbie went to a show, and saw
an elephant for the first time in his life.
When he came home, his mother asked him
what he had seen. Robbie replied, “An
elephant, mama, that gobbled hay with his
front tail.”
	IT was a happy thought for Dr. Doremus
to say that if he were challenged to fight a
duel, he would suggest to his opponent that
both should take poison, and then sit down
and play poker for the exclusive use of the
stomach pump.
	A COUNSEL mimicking a witness, who as
a north countryman pronounced the word
“water” as if it had been “watter,” in-
quired of him whether in his part of the
country they spell “water with two t’s?”
“No,” said the witness, “but they spell
manners with two n’s.”
	TILL we have reflected on it, we are
scarcely aware how much the sum of hu-
man happiness in the world is indebted to
this one feeling—sympathy. We get cheer-
fulness and vigor, we scarcely know how or
when, from mere association with our fel-
low men, and from the looks reflected on us
of gladness and keen enjoyment.
	IT IS not what people eat, but what they
digest, that makes them strong. It is not
what they gain, but what they save, that
makes them rich. It is not what they read,
but what they remember, that makes them
learned. It is not what they profess, but
what they practice, that makes them right-
eous.
	THE weeping willow has a romantic his-
tory. The first scion was sent from Smyrna
in a box of figs, to Alexander Pope. Gen-
eral Clinton brought a shoot from Pope's
tree to America, in the time of the revolu-
tion, which, passing into the hands of John
Parker Curtis, was planted on his estate in
Viriginia, thus becoming the progenitor of
the weeping willow in this country.
	A CURIOUS portrait of General Washing-
ton, on earthenware, is displayed in a New
York jeweler's window. It is stated that
soon after Washington's death an American
traveling in England discovered some sets
of earthenware with these portraits en-
ameled upon them. He purchased the
whole lot, had the portraits cut out and
framed, and distributed them among his
friends.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		
		LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	 							Salt Lake City, Utah.

	SALT LAKE CITY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1872.


SPLINTERS.

	One hundred and eighty young and hardy
Scotchmen have lately landed at Quebec......
A new ocean cable has recently been laid
from the Suffolk coast in England to Hano-
ver......Gold medals have been sent to Stan-
ley, the explorer, from the St. Petersburg
and Florence geographical societies......Some
one now states that Horace Greeley, instead
of Wilkes Booth, was or should have been
Lincoln’s assassin......One hundred people
were lately thrown out of employment, at
Portland, by the burning of a rope factory...
About fifty delegates, from different parts
of the United States and Canada, were pres-
ent at the session of the Caledonia society
of North America......The Indians at Por-
tage la Prairie, Canada, refuse their annui-
ties, as last year provided by treaty, and
declare that unless better terms are granted
they will stop surveys......In the past two
years, twenty-three thousand miles of elec-
tric cables have been laid in the waters of
England, France, Spain, Holland, Turkey,
China, South America and Australia......A
late fire in the press room of the “Christian
Union,” Henry Ward Beecher’s paper, de-
stroyed about $10,000 worth of property......
Twenty-three cases of sunstroke in New
York, and seven in Brooklyn, occurred on
the 15th of August......John G. Saxe takes
the stump for Greeley and Brown......Half
the slate pencils used in the world are
claimed by Vermont to be made in the
Green Mountain State.....An English stock
purchaser has paid $13,000 for two short-
horned heifers in Kentucky......Carl Schurz
delivered his speech in Chicago in German...
It is believed that Charles Sumner and N.P.
Banks will take the stump in Maine......Gar-
rison tries to prove that Greeley was never
an abolitionist......Ludgate Hill, London’s
great thoroughfare, is to be paved with
American wood at a cost of $25,000......Kate
Field is engaged to write for the “Ameri-
can Register”......A New Hampshire paper
reports that twenty persons and a negro
were baptised on a Sunday, in its neighbor-
hood......Report says the prettiest girl about
Saratoga, is an Indian maiden, who sells
bead-work at the springs......Rev. Miss
Babcock has entered pastoral possession of the
pulpit of Warren street church, in Boston......
Last year, England bought from the United
States, $184,000,000 worth of cotton; and
manufactured from it L382,000,000 worth of
goods......Turin, Italy, boasts eighty women
over a century old, the youngest being 102
and the eldest 117......The Grant men think
to carry Maine, September 9th, by 49,000
majority; but Greeley men say they wont.
GREELEY is said to wear his trousers in-
side his boots to show he does not buy mili-
tary boots......“Colonel” Tennie C. Claflin
will take command of her regiment, she
says, as soon as it is recruited up to a thou-
sand strong.....Fanny Lewald, the German
authoress, intends to lecture in the United
States next autumn.......Mr. Boutwell is
now speaking for Grant in Maine......One
hundred and eighteen printers in Albany
have formed a Greeley and Brown club......
Chicago laid over a mile of sidewalk in
July......The female students who claimed
admission to the Scotch Universities, have
gained their point.....A Boston belle wears
the honors at Cape May......Bret Harte is
writing a melodrama......Two boats, one
containing two men, and the other a little
boy and girl, drifted over the Niagara Falls
on the 26th of July......The Emperors of
Germany and Austria met at Ischl on the
28th of August......The tomb of Abelard
and Heloise, at Pere la Chaise, is being
renovated at the expense of a noble and
[new column]
aged French lady......The Stadt Theatre,
New York, was lately sold at auction for
$12,200......The Grand Lodge of Odd Fel-
lows, of New York, reject the constitutional
amendment for admission of members ex-
pelled more than ten years......“Mark
Twain” has sailed in the “Scotia” for Eu-
rope......America is to be visited by a son of the
Khedive of Egypt......Juarez,the late Presi-
dent of Mexico, was a full-blooded Indian...
A cat was recently sold in London for
$255......The population of Russia is 81,-
500,000......Professor Agassiz is on his way
homeward......The father of the late James
Fisk, jr., has been horse-whipping general
J. W. Phelps, at Brattleboro, Vt......The
well-known and popular journalist of New
Orleans, Paul E. Roman, is dead......A pro-
ject for a tax upon domestic servants, was
recently brought forward in the French as-
sembly......A literary revolution is in pro-
gress in Poland......M. D. Conway says the
Prince of Wales possesses one good quality;
he is free from cant and hypocrisy......A
brother of Dr. Livingstone, residing at Lis-
well, Canada, has received letters from the
doctor, sent by Stanley......Miss Dickinson
is now said to be quietly pursuing her lec-
ture studies at home.


WHO IS TO BLAME?

	It has become so popular among the fashion-
able women of society, to be weak and sickly,
and under the care of a physician, that a woman
who is blest with good health and has sense
enough to appreciate it, is likely to be consid-
ered coarse, masculine and non-sensitive in her
mental as well as physical organization. If a
girl can enjoy exuberantly a bowl of hominy
and milk, and not be ready to die with dyspep-
sia in an hour afterward; if she can make her
own bed and sweep the room, or indulge in a
genuine, hearty laugh, and not complain of a
fearful pain in the side for the next forty-eight
hours; she is thought to be vulgar and unculti-
vated, and no matter how chaste and finished
her educational developments, she is an unfit
associate for those gentler, more delicate and
refined (!) creatures to whom the sight of “mo-
lasses preserves” serves as an emetic, and who
can faint away at the smell of “soap-suds.”
The reason of this is, that such a young lady
can not possess that prevalent, yet senseless
and inhuman taste, which delights in suffering
the pangs engendered by tight lacing, wearing
high heeled boots; and, in short, the whole
toilet of the fashionable lady of the day, which
makes a sacrifice of health and all real happi-
ness, and cannot fail to inflict premature death.
More than half the fault, for this fashionable
folly, may justly be charged to men, though
women are so severely blamed for it all. For
no true wife, of a kind and faithful husband, is
going to far over-reach the line in any respect,
by which he would see her guided. Were there
more true husbands, there would be more true
wives. For nearly all women can be influenced
and led by just and intelligent men, and are
always ready to unite their efforts with those


of man for the promotion of good. And if hus-
bands and wives would co-operate as they
should do upon those points, not many of their
daughters would run wild after the silly vani-
ties of the world, but would live and work for
nobler and higher aims. But men of the world
do not wish their wives and daughters to be
prudent and temperate, or they would set bet-
ter examples before them than they do. If
women were anything better than the extrava-
gant, sickly, silly, vain things that they are,
men, taking them generally, in their present
degenerate state, would sink to nothingness be-
side them.


﻿THE TERRITORIAL FAIR.

	At the meeting of the Board of Directors of
the Deseret Agricultural and Manufacturing
Society, held in the Historian’s office on Sat-
urday evening, August 24, Hon. Wilford Wood-
ruff presiding, it was decided to publish a
circular addressed to the Female Relief Socie-
ties throughout the Territory, relative to the
approaching Territorial Fair. We take great
pleasure in printing the circular, as requested
by the Board, which reads as follows:
	SALT LAKE CITY, August 17, 1872.
TO THE FEMALE RELIEF SOCIETIES
   THROUGHOUT UTAH TERRITORY:
    LADIES:—The Deseret Agricultural and Man-
ufacturing society, at a meeting of its board of
directors on the 10th day of August inst., recog-
nizing the fact that heretofore the ladies have
contributed in a liberal manner to their de-
partment, until it has become one of the lead-
ing features of our exhibitions, ordered that a
circular be written calling upon all the Relief 
Societies to unite and by a concentration of ef-
fort accomplish that which will be highly
creditable and be parallel with Utah’s advanced
growth.
	Exhibitions of domestic products and manu-
factures are considered of such utility and im-
portance that they form a prominent part of
the civil polity of the nations; and the people
who foster and excel in their products and in-
dustries lay the foundation of commercial inde-
pendence.
	A people situated as we are, so remote from
other manufacturing districts, aided by the
heavy tariffs of transportation, have every
stimulus to encourage them in this direction.
The adoption of this policy is pregnant with
benefits on every hand. While attaining the
desirable status of having “the beauty of our
apparel the workmanship of our own hands,”
the laudable condition is also reached of fur-
nishing employment for the heavy tide of im-
migrants coming westward and for the legion
of youth growing up in our midst.
	A word to the wise is sufficient: Ladies, you
are respectfully invited to contribute and to
take an active part in rendering this exhibi- 
tion a step in advance of its predecessors.
	The Fair will be held in the 13th Ward As-
sembly Rooms, in this city, on the 3d, 4th and
5th of October, so as to close before the com-
mencement of the Semi-Annual Conference. 
At this Fair the ladies of the Relief Societies
can do much to add to its interest; they can 
show how well cultivated is the taste, how skill-
ful are the hands, and how competent in work
of many kinds are those who devote a portion
of their time, intelligence, and the ability with
which they have been endowed, to alleviate
the sufferings or privations of those who need
their assistance.
For the benefit of the ladies we give the two
classes of articles in which they are more di-
rectly interested, for which prizes will be
awarded, taken from the list of premiums for
the Tenth exhibition of the Society, printed 
by order of the Board:
		CLASS T.—LADIES' WORK. 
	Supervisory Committee.—E. F. Sheets.
Awarding Committee.—ELIZA R. SNOW, MRS.
M. T. SMOOT, MRS. PHEBE WOODRUFF, MRS.
B. W. SMITH, MRS. LUCY KIMBALL, Provo,
MRS. ELIZABETH BARLOW, Bountiful.


Best collection of useful and ornamental
	articles produced by any Female Relief
	Society....................................Silver Medal
	"   specimen ornamental needle work....$2 00
	“   specimen Ayrshire needle work...........	 2 00
	“   ottoman cover........................................ 2 00
	“   worked lace collar..................................	 2 00
	“   worked cushions....................................	 2 00
	“   lace cap.................................................... 2 00
	“   colored artificial flowers........................	 2 00
	“   ornamental basket................................. 2 00
	“   woolen socks..........................................  2 00
	“   cotton socks.....................................   Diploma
	“   embroidered shawl................................$3 00
	“   crochet work........................................... 2 00
	"   worked quilt............................................  2 00
	"   patchworked quilt..................................	  2 00
	“   knit work.................................................. 2 00
	“   three specimens of straw work............. 5 00
	“   ladies’ straw hat....................................... 2 00
	“   rents’ straw hat.........................................2 00
	"   ladies’ straw bonnet.................................2 00
	“   assorted straw braids...............................2 00
	The awards for the second best in this
						class are $1 00.
			CLASS U.—PRODUCE.
	Supervisory Committee.—JOHN READING.
	Awarding Committee.—E. D. WOOLEY, MY-
	RON TANNER, DANIEL R. ALLEN, DANIEL
	GRENIG, ROBERT CAMPBELL.

Best specimen one hundred lbs flour....Diploma
	“ specimen fifty lbs corn meal......           “
	“	“	ten lbs butter..................           “
	“	"	ten lbs butter made pre-
			 vious to July 1st........		      “
	“	“	cheese made in 1871.........     $3 00
	“	“	cheese made in 1872..........      5 00
	The awards for the second best in
				this class are $2 00.
	Applicants for premiums on butter must
accompany their samples with a written state-
ment of the time when made, number of cows
made from, quantity of salt per pound used,
how manufactured, washed or otherwise, and
how packed to entitle them to awards by the
judges.
	Applicants for premiums on cheese must ac-
company their samples with a written answer
to the following questions:
	How many cows in your dairy? Do you feed
grain or roots? If so, what kind, and when?
	What is your usual average yield per cow?
	Into what do you set your night’s milk?
	Do you take off cream in the morning?
	Do you return cream? if so, when and how?
	In what manner do you warm milk for the
reception of rennet?
	Do you use a thermometer?
	To what temperature do you heat milk for
the reception of rennet?
	How do you preserve your rennet?
	In what do you set your milk?
	How do you separate whey from curd?
	What time consumed in scalding process?
	How do you scald curd?	
	What quantity of salt do you use to ten
pounds of curd?
	Do you color your curd? if so, with what and
at what stage?	
	Do you put curd to press cold or hot?
	What amount of pressure do you apply?
	How long do you press?
	What is the average weight of your cheeses?
	Do you bandage your cheese? if so, when?
	Where are they kept?
	What do you apply to the surface in curing?
	How often do you turn them?
	What kind of a press do you use?
	What disposition do you make of your whey?
	Do you keep a dairy account?
	What was your average income per cow last
year?
		CLASS U.—CONTINUED. 
Best ten pounds sugar...............Silver Medal
2nd best ten pounds sugar..............Diploma
Best one gallon from one hundred
	gallons molasses..............................	 "
	“ one quart from ten quarts wine...	 "
	“ preserved fruit................................	 "
	“ canned fruit.................................... 	 "
	“ preserved corn...............................	 "
	“ preserved vegetables....................	 "
	“ preserved meats............................	 "
	“ assorted pickles..............................	 "
	The awards for the second best in
		this class are.................		$2 00


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


VERMONT ELECTION occurs on the 3rd 
inst.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE EXPONENT continues to increase in cir-
culation, for which we thank the friends whose
exertions are directed for its success.
	THE FIRST load of granite brought by steam,
from Cottonwood, was landed at Temple Block,
in this city, on the morning of the 28th ult.
A track has been laid from the U. S. and U. C.
depot to the Temple Block, along which a loco-
motive can pass with loaded cars of rock to the
foundation of the Temple.
	A BIBLE society for Utah has been organized
in this city. While we are anxious to see the
truths contained in the sacred volume still
more widely disseminated, would it not be ad-
visable, for consistency’s sake, for the gentle-
men who have moved in the matter, either to
recognize more widely the principles taught
in it, or advocate an altered version that would
better agree with their opinions?
	TWO DAYS’ meetings were held at Logan,
Cache county, on the 17th and 18th ult., and at
Farmington, Davis county, on the 24th and
25th ult,; attended by the Presidency, some of
the Twelve and other Elders. At each place a
great deal of valuable instruction was given,
and the large numbers that attended were
much edified and strengthened in faith by the
teachings and exhortations of the speakers.
	A WOMAN ran the danger of being burned to
death in this city last Saturday night, by
placing a coal oil lamp on a hot stove. The
lamp exploded, scattering the burning fluid
over her apparel, and she was only saved by
having the blazing dress torn off her. The
recklessness with which many persons handle
inflammable fluids is surprising considering
the vast number of accidents that are continu-
ally occurring.
	ONE of the most notable events that has oc-
curred in the Territory since our last issue, was
the holding of the Indian council at Spring-
ville, Utah county. A few straight-forward
promises satisfied the Indians assembled, who
expressed themselves warmly in favor of con-
tinued peace, but believed they had not been
justly treated. If the promises again made to
them are performed, there need be little fear of
trouble from them; but if they are broken and
if the assurances given prove empty words,
more trouble may be looked for. In a long
course of experience with the Indians, Presi-
dent Young has ever retained their confidence,
simply because he always performed all that
he promised, and they never had reason to
doubt his word. It is said that much of the
late cause for uneasiness relative to the Uintah
Indians might have been avoided, had the In-
dian agent not been over anxious to show that
he swayed high authority, and, disregarding
the advice of men having experience with the
Indian character, he took a course calculated
to irritate instead of conciliate them. There
are hostile Indians still supposed to be in the
neighborhood of Sanpete and the Sevier, and
against these troops have been dispatched.


﻿WOMAN’S VOICE.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Having finished my washing, got supper
over, and the children to bed, I sit down to
write to you. I notice that you seem to
avoid personalities in your publication as
much as possible. But what I have to say
is chiefly concerning myself and my private
affairs, and yet is illustrative of a principle.
Once, I considered it scandalous and out-
rageous for our family concerns to be bandied
about and ridiculed or groaned over by all
the blockheads in the Christian communi-
ties around us; but now I have become so
[new column]
used to such things that I wish to say some-
thing about it myself. I desire to tell some-
thing of what celestial marriage has done
for me, and I hope you will publish it.
	When a girl, at home with my parents
and brothers and sisters, I had a most
wretched disposition. Not that I willfully
did wrong, nor yet that I was so simple as
not to know better than to talk and do as I
often did; but somehow I seemed to be im-
pelled to make myself a miserable, ungrate-
ful, disagreeable creature.
	After marriage I kept it up. My hus-
band was always kind and affectionate, but
I would be annoyed and unhappy all the
while. When children were given me, and
the cares and duties of life were multiplied,
I grew more and more fretful and disagree-
able. I have wondered how my generous,
peace-loving husband ever stood my con-
stant irritableness, and endured to live with
me; but I suppose his love for me, ungrate-
ful as I was, and his firm faith and trust in
God, helped him to bear it all. When my
second child was two years old, and six
months before my third one was born, my
husband gently, yet earnestly, laid before
me his desire and determination to take an-
other wife. Notwithstanding the principle
was an old one to me, that my husband
should think of adopting it was new and 
surprising. I knew he believed that I would
oppose him; yet I also felt from the first
that his course was right, and that in justice
I could not raise a single objection. I de-
termined to astonish him as much as he
had done me. I therefore put my arms
about his neck and kissed him, a thing I
had rarely if ever done before, and whis-
pered, “All right; I am going to be a good
girl; see if I don’t!” This was after a little
reflection. I then asked my husband to
leave me to myself, which he did. I spent
the afternoon in prayer and contemplation,
not with tears and head and heartache, as I
am aware some of my less-reflecting sisters
do, and have done. I knew the woman
who was to become a second wife to my
husband was a true, whole-souled woman;
sweeter-tempered, more affectionate, oblig-
ing and unselfish than myself. Gossip
would soon say either that I wronged and
trampled on the poor girl, or else that she 
had fairly won my husband’s heart from
me. And I was aware that gossip could
speak truly concerning these things, unless
I altered the course I had been pursuing.
I made up my mind that if slander ever
spoke of me as she had done of others, she
should bear false witness. I would do right.
I would live nearer the Lord than I had
ever done, would seek His Spirit more dili-
gently than I had ever known how to do
before; I would try to be so good and just
and self-sacrificing that no one, however
worthy, should supercede me in any of my
lawful claims. I promised this to myself
and to the Lord. I have kept that promise
so far, and the Lord has rewarded me every
day. I have become pleasant and cheerful
in my thoughts and in my ways; a truer
and more consistent helpmate; a more de-
voted and faithful mother; a stronger, purer
and better woman; and happier in life than
I ever was before being brought into the
practice of the law of celestial or plural
marriage. Whoever may allow “polyg-
amy,” as practiced by the real Latter-day
Saints, to make them weak and miserable,
I know that it can and will bless and exalt
those who enter into and live in it wisely,
for this is what it has done for me; thanks
and glory be given to the Founder and 
Creator of the eternal law!
						COUNTRY WOMAN.
Monday Evening, Aug. 20, 1872.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A ﻿SONG FOR THE TWENTY-FOURTH.

	All hail the glorious Twenty-Fourth !
		The birthday of the true and free; 
	The breaking light that ushers in
		Th’ eventful dawn of liberty,

	Hail to the ragged Pioneers !
		Weary and dusty though they be
	'Tis the tread of empire at its birth
		The herald footsteps of the free.

	Oh, Father rain thy blessings down!
		Thus prayeth every heart and tongue,
	On the chosen of the people’s hearts,
		Truth's noblest champion, Brigham Young.
							AGNESS S. ARMSTRONG


﻿SOMETHING NEW.—HOW IS IT?

	A writer to the “Woman’s Journal”, and
a believer in the superiority of woman over
man says:
	“It would seem that this wonderful body
of our sex, more delicate, more beautiful,
more highly organized, more sensitive, yet
with more vitality, and endowed with the
wonderful power, the divine power of giv-
ing life to other human beings, should be
treated with profound reverence at all
times.”
	When I read this sentence the question
voluntarily arose in my mind, “How has
woman been endowed with that wenderful,
that divine power!” True, it is not em-
phatically stated that she possesses this pow-
er independently; but if the expression is
not intended to converge to such a doctrine,
it does not explain itself. If such a theory
can be sustained, what a strange, new and
delightful period is dawning for woman!
She has, indeed, gained a superior and su-
perhuman basis, and need not trouble her-
self any further about good husbands, bad
husbands, or husbands of any kind. If the
time has come when she can obtain her
chief glory—“giving life to other human
beings”—independent of her inferior (!) as-
sociate—man—the world’s troubles must be
approaching a glorious “finis,” and every
one should be apprised of it. But how is
it?   Women out our way don’t understand
it.   We have not got so far along.  Would
“Shawanebeke,” who prays daily, “Thy
kingdom come,” and means “Woman Suf-
frage,” please explain? And as a compen-
-sation, I would politely and in sincerity
offer a few suggestions for her consideration, in
connection with the following true and very
sound sentiments from her own pen:
	“My daughter of fifteen asked me-to-day
why the good and sensible girls had so few
beaux, while the silly, over-dressed ones
could marry whom they pleased?  ‘Because
there are so few sensible men, my child,’
I answered. ‘Almost every superior woman
feels that in marrying she must accept her
inferior, ‘as men go’ now. Were it custom-
ary for her to select whom she would favor
with her love, she would choose more wisely;
and brainless men would not be so eligible
to matrimony as are now brainless girls.
When women assume this duty and privi-
lege, and when men are educated up to it,
there will be more and happier marriages.’
No one found it unfeminine in Victoria to
choose her own husband.”
	While it is an undeniable fact, that in
nearly every society in the known world,
“almost every superior woman feels that in
marrying she must accept her inferior 'as
men go’ now,” it is also a pleasing truth
that the great and good Creator hath pre-
pared a plan by which His intelligent and
pure and humble daughters may be more
fairly and equally provided for. A law by
which every true and noble woman may
claim the right of a virtuous and godly pro-
tector and companion for herself, and father
[new column]
for her children; making her own choice,
abiding by her own decision. That this or-
der should be misunderstood, ridiculed and
despised by the brainless and bigotted “fast
men” of the day, is not to be wondered at,
as it is calculated to deprive them of the
selfish and hateful abominations they de-
light to revel in. But that woman, with
her more chaste and elevated conceptions
of honor, sanctity and intelligence, should
proclaim against it is more surprising;
although I believe this to be merely the re-
sult of a lack of comprehension. And no
wonder women are blinded to their own in-
terests in this respect; they have been so
completely hoodwinked by the falsehoods
of corrupt and senseless braggarts.
							   NAIVETE.


﻿AMUSEMENTS FOR THE YOUNG.

	The importance of surrounding the young
with cheerful objects is seldom sufficiently
recognized. How often is the nursery the
dullest room in the house! It should be the
most cheerful, and have, both literally and
figuratively, a sunny aspect. All its con-
tents should have a lively air. The walls
should be painted of a bright color, and the
carpets be of a pattern noticeable by the dis-
tinctness of its figures or the warmth of its
tint. Colored pictures of a bright, objective
character large representations of animals—
dogs, horses and farm-yard, and groups of
ruddy boys and girls, elephants—cheerful
scenes of the field and playing and merry-
making, should be so hung on all sides as
to attract the sight and animate the spirits
of the little inhabitants of the nursery.
Their eyes and ears should be, as far as
possible, kept closed to all scenes and rela-
tions of horror and cruelty. The excite-
ment of the natural terror of the child at
darkness and solitude must be carefully
avoided, and no threats of summoning
ghosts, bogies, old witches or other mon-
sters, so fearful to the childish imagination,
should ever be permitted.
	With increasing age youth finds in the
companionship of its fellows the society
which is essential to its happiness and ac-
quires that knowledge of the traditionary
games of boyhood and girlhood which is an
endless source of gaiety and pleasure. The
top, ball, marbles, tag, leap-frog, hare and
hounds, prisoner’s base, and many other
amusements of the young, with their varied
inducements to active exercise of the body
and enlivening influences upon the animal
spirits, have a value to the child proved by
the experience of all time and all countries.
We regret, however, to learn that as they
involve a certain roughening and dirtying
of the hands, reddening of the face, and
disheveling of the hair, and unquestionable
wear and tear of the clothes, many parents
discountenance them. They are denounced
by the over-refined as the games of the rude
children of a rude age, and as not genteel
enough for the nicer offspring of modern
civilization! They undoubtedly afford the
young just that combination of mental ex-
citement and physical action in which they
delight, and from which both mind and
body receive so much benefit. We there-
fore decide, without much hesitation, in
the case of fine clothes vs. healthy and
happy children, leaving the fine clothes, as
the lawyers say, we believe, “to be cost for
damages.”
	Parents should not only encourage their
children to play these famous old games out
of doors, but make abundant provision for
the children’s amusement at home.—“Har-
per’s Bazar.”


﻿SENSIBLE RETRENCHMENT.

   Among the many rich points, finely dwelt
upon by Presidents B. Young and G. A.
Smith, in connection with the testimonies
borne by several of our prominent elders,
at the late two days’ conference held at Lo-
gan city, the importance of retrenchment
in cooking and in dress, was forcibly pre-
sented for the consideration of the sisters.
The use of unnecessary and injurious
beverages and tobacco was earnestly dis-
countenanced. Immorality in every form
was spoken against; and truth, virtue, be-
nevolence, and every attribute of a redeem-
ing and exalting nature, were strongly
vindicated. President Smith advised la-
dies, when cooking and arranging a dinner
of which friends were invited to partake,
not for each one to think she must excel
everybody else, and for this, “work herself
to death and have more dishes dirtied than
she could wash in a week.” Two or three
hours should be time enough in which to
prepare a good, respectable meal, and if her
company came filled with the Spirit of the
Lord, as they should do, it would be much
more satisfactory to them than if she
worked three days and went to unreason-
able expense to provide a sumptuous repast.
This is sound, wholesome advice, which
every woman in Utah should gratefully re-
ceive and profit by. When Abraham and
Sarah entertained Angels, instead of pud-
dings, pies, tarts and sauces, with tea or
coffee, they had bread and butter and milk,
and some veal for dinner. And when Jesus,
the Son of God, prepared a meal and invited
His disciples to dine with Him it is not re-
corded that He spread before them any
greater variety of dainties than broiled fish
and bread. Much wisdom is manifested by
a few of the Latter-day Saints in seeking
to adopt some of these simple and healthful
rules, and spending time, means and
strength, to better advantage than in, get-
ting up costly suppers. And it is to be
hoped that many more will follow the same
wise example. Much labor is performed by
the women of to-day to great disadvantage
and to no real purpose. Retrenchment in
almost every branch of industry could be
aptly applied without the least injury to art
or convenience and comfort. And thus
woman might secure much valuable time,
for gaining information herself, and impart-
ing it to her children, which now seems to
be unavoidably wasted in hard work.


﻿BOYS AT HOME.—An intelligent and
thrifty farmer says:	“But for the co-opera-
tion of boys I should have failed. The
eldest is near twenty-one, and the other
boys in the neighborhood have left their
parents—mine have stuck to me when I
most needed their services. I attribute this
result to the fact that I have tried to make
home pleasant for them. I furnished them
with attractive and useful reading; and
when night comes and the day’s work is
ended, instead of running with other boys 
to railroad stations and adjoining towns, 
they gather around the great lamp, and be-
come interested in their books and pa- 
pers.”


﻿IT IS the duty of every true woman to
look as beautiful as she can. It is her duty
to brighten and gladden the world with her
loveliness just as the flowers and trees, the
skies and waters gladden it. Her sense of
the beautiful should always and everywhere
be cultivated, for thus will her thoughts be
made pure, and her mind the home of sweet
and lovely things. Refinement comes of a
love of all things beautiful.—Ex.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.
			   —
	TO TALK well and just enough is an ac-
complishment and wisdom possessed by
very few.
	EXTENSIVE beds of peat of the best qual-
ity have been discovered near Los Angeles,
on the line of the San Pedro railroad.
	A CONNECTICUT man rolls in wealth ac-
cumulated in the business of manufacturing
“genuine relics from the Holy Land.”
	YOU may fail to shine in the opinion of
others, both in your conversation and ac-
tions, from being superior as well as inferior
to them.
	THE London society for the prevention of
vice, has caused the suspension of the “Day’s
Doings.” A like society here could find
some, work to do.
	GRATITUDE is the great incentive to all
happiness. Without it, the wealthiest can-
not procure real enjoyment; with it, the
poorest cannot be miserable.
	WHAT we truly and earnestly aspire to
be, that in some sense we are. The mere
aspiration, by changing the frame of mind,
for the moment realizes itself.
	DURING the session of the Oregon legis-
lature two years ago, a minister preached
from the text “Thou shalt not steal.” Sev-
eral legislators, considering it a personal
insult, got up and left in high dudgeon.
	FASTIDIOUSNESS, az a general thing, iz a
holyday virtew, and i hav frequently notis-
sed that thoze individuals who are alwus
afrade they shall cum akrost sumthing hily
improper, are generally looking for it.—
 “Billings.”
	LOVE is said to be blind, but it is better
to believe that it voluntarily overlooks the
failings of its object, and, with more than
common sight, sees also the finer and more
obscure virtues which a casual observer
would never find out.
	WILLIAM LAWSON BARRY, of Nashville,
Tennessee, is the oldest printer in the Uni-
ted States, having just entered his ninety-
third year. He commenced learning his
trade in 1797, and set up Washington’s
obituary in 1799. Barry was born in Vir-
ginia, but has spent most all his life in Ten-
nessee and Kentucky, and has had a
considerable acquaintance with all of the
eminent men of those States. He is still
vigorous, and works at his trade occasion-
ally.
	KINDERHOOK, Illinois, possesses the
champion preacher. A few Sundays since
he had preached an eloquent sermon, and
at the conclusion exhorted his hearers to
embrace the opportunity presented. None
came forward, and after waiting some time,
the minister, raising his voice to the high-
est pitch, exclaimed: “Well, sit there, and
be .damned.” On the same Sunday he called
out to the janitor: “Open that window; I
don’t like to preach in a barrel with the
bung drove in.”
	AS MME. LUCCA is expected to visit us
during the coming year, the following esti-
mate of her powers and style, from an Eng-
lish journal,is of interest: “Madame Lucca’s
action is warmer and more tragic than that
of Nilsson. Her vocalization has more color,
passion and enthusiasm; is less a cold, con-
structive body of- beauty; fuller of pulse,
vividness and vitality; more sensuous and
living; less like a splendid statue of ice,
brilliant, scintillating, reflecting every
passion of lyrical drama, but possessed of
none. As a consequence, her style is more
sympathetic and exacts an equal sympathy
from the audience.”


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.
				—
	STOKES is said to have spent $7,500 on his
trial.
	A seventeen-year-old rooster died lately
at Mobile, Ala.
	THE dog census of the United States is
set down at 21,000,000,000.
	THE value of the fruit product of Califor-
nia is estimated at $3,000,000.
	THE Isabel, a species of stone color, is
now the fashionable tint in London.
	A $3,000,000 hotel is to be erected in
London and run on the American plan.
	ENGLAND has 1,000,000 paupers, not one
in twenty of whom ever attended school.
	A FULL glass of water at bed time and
another just after rising, will often relieve
dyspepsia.
	A TEXAN cattle dealer is considered a
poor man if his drove does not number a
thousand head.
	AT THE old Mission of San Diego are 300
olive trees that are from eighty to one hun-
dred years old.
	SOME artesian wells 150 feet deep in Los
Angeles county are discharging live trout
two inches long.
	TWO twin boys in Warren county, Indi-
ana, aged 72 years, are tenderly cared for
by a mother of 96.
	ONE of the results of the civilization of
Japan is to leave 10,000 Buddhist priests
penniless and without employment.
	RECENT careful and scientific observa-
tions are said to show beyond a doubt that
the Colorado desert was once the bed of a
sea.
	THE dying gift of Bennett, of the New
York “Herald,” was $250,000 toward com-
pleting the Catholic cathedral in New York 
city.
	SIX thousand one hundred and seven
persons drank at the Cincinnati ice water
fountain during twenty-four hours last
week.
	THE tules or reed vegetation of the Cali-
fornia swamp land has been found to yield
fifty or sixty per cent, of paper pulp, equal
to that obtained from cotton.
	THE largest emigration to southern Min-
nesota ever known is now settling in the
frontier counties. It far exceeds the im-
mense immigration of 1866.
	DR. R. J. DODD, of the United States
navy, has given $4,000 to the Woman’s
Medical college of Pennsylvania, for the
establishment of the Hannah Matilda Dodd
Scholarship, in memory of his wife.
	CHICORY raising promises to become quite
an item in the valleys of the San Joaquin
and Calaveras rivers, Cal. The yield is said
to be fifteen to twenty tons per acre, and
the price $5 per ton. Chicory is used in
enormous quantities in adulterating coffee.
	THE Mikado of Japan can trace his pedi-
gree back for two thousand years. Queen
Victoria’s genealogy is traced back to the
foundation of the Saxon Heptarchy, A. D.
827, only a little more than one thousand
years, and the kings of France are reckoned
back about four hundred years earlier.
	AN insane man, who left his home in
Michigan about a year ago, has since been
traveling about under the impression that
he was somebody else, but retaining at the
same time a peculiar interest in his real self.
He would write home to his wife occasion-
ally, inquiring after her husband, being es-
pecially anxious to learn whether he had
“got over his crazy spell or not.”


﻿HOW IT IS DONE.
			     —
	Scene in library—gentleman busy writing
	—child enters :
	“Father, give me a penny.”
	“Haven’t got any—don’t bother me.”
	“But, father, I want it—something par-
ticular.”
	“I tell you I haven’t got one about me.”
	“I must have it! you promised me
one.”
	“I did no such thing! I won’t give you
any more pennies—you spend too many.
It’s all wrong. I won’t give it to you; so go
away!”
	Child begins to whimper.
	“I think you might give me one—it’s
real mean!”.
	“No! Go away—I won’t do it! So there’s
an end of it.”
	Child cries, teases, coaxes. Father gets
out of patience, puts his hand in his pocket,
takes out a penny and throws it at the child.
	“There! take it, and don’t come back
again to-day.”
	Child smiles, looks shy, and goes out con-
queror, determined to continue the struggle
in the afternoon, with the certainty of like
results.
	Scene in the street—two boys playing—
mother opens the door and trails one of
them, her own son.
	“Joe, come into the house right away.”
	Joe pays no attention.
	“Joe, do you hear me? If you don’t
come in right away, I’ll give you a whip-
ping!”
	Joe smiles and continues his play. His
companion is alarmed for him, and advises
him to obey.
	“You’ll catch it if you don’t go, Joe.”
“Oh! no—I won’t. She always says so—but
never does. I ain’t afraid!”
	Mother goes into the house greatly put
out, and thinks herself a martyr to bad chil-
dren.
	That’s the way, parents. Show your chil-
dren by example that you are weak, unde-
cided, and untruthful, and they learn aptly
enough to despise your authority and regard
your word as nothing. They graduate liars
and mockers, and the reaping of your sow-
ing will not fail.—Ex.


﻿IT IS not enough for a man to furnish his
family with comfortable food, clothing and
shelter. They have a claim on him above
those of physical necessities. If is not noble
in him to say, “I work hard to give you a
home, and I want you to stay there. Seek
your pleasures at home. I will not have
my family straggling here and there in the
world. Stay at home. I can see enough of
the world for all of us.” This kind of
tyranny makes a prison of home, which in-
stantly ceases to be the habitation of peace
or happiness. It would be so easy and. re-
spectable for such a man to take his family
out for a little variety and recreation, now
and then. Young people droop without a
sense of freedom within the bounds of pro-
priety and filial obedience. There are beau-
tiful influences and opportunities for improv-
ing the mind in the world, which are lost
by those who are forbidden ever to seek
them.


IT IS easy to say what ought not to be
thought of or mentioned, but when the
heart is full of long pent-up, bitter memo-
ries of abuse, neglect or tyranny, the seal
will sometimes drop from the lips : when a
sympathetic heart is near to offer a kind
word of comfort.


A “time-server”—a watch.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TEA DRUNKARDS.
				   —
	Dr. Arlidge, one of the pottery inspectors
in Staffordshire, has put forth a very sen-
sible protest, says the “Lancet,” against a
very pernicious custom which rarely re-
ceives sufficient attention, either from the
medical profession or the public. He says
that the women of the working classes make
tea a principal article of diet instead of an
occasional beverage; they drink it several
times a day, and the result is a lamentable
amount of sickness. This is no doubt the
case, and, as Dr. Arlidge remarks, a portion
of the reforming zeal which keeps up such
a fierce and bitter agitation against intoxi-
cating drinks might advantageously be di-
verted to the repression of this very serious
evil of tea tippling among the poorer
classes. Tea, in anything beyond moderate
quantities, is as distinctly a narcotic poison
as is opium or alcohol. It is capable of ruin-
ing the digestion, of enfeebling and disor-
dering the heart’s action, and of generally
shattering the nerves. And it must be re-
membered that not merely is it a question
of narcotic excess, but the enormous quan-
tity of hot water which tea bibbers neces-
sarily take is exceedingly prejudicial both
to digestion and nutrition.—Ex.


THE authenticity of Stanley’s letters
concerning the finding of Dr. Livingstone,
is now generally conceded. Mr. Stanley is
a young man, not much over thirty, who is
well known in Colorado Territory and in
Omaha. There is a little romance connected
with his history, as it is alleged that he
fixed his affections on a young lady whose
name is not unfamiliar to the people of Salt
Lake, she having appeared on the boards of
the theatre here for a season; and that she
did not reciprocate his warmth of feeling.
It is said that as a result he became some-
what misanthropic and sought literary em-
ployment that weuld take him away from
familiar scenes and faces. He became cor-
respondent for the New York “Herald” in
Abyssinia during the British war against
the Emperor Theodore, and through his
correspondence the British government first
learned of the success of their arms and the
fall of Magdala. He was subsequently se-
lected to lead the “Herald” expedition to
search for Dr. Livingstone, and succeeded
in finding the great explorer at Ujiji in the
interior of Africa.


Z.  C. M. I.

 RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.

 We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
riety of our Patrons.
	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated
		SALT LAKE GLOVES.
Children’s Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty.
While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics
of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,
Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-
est possible figure.

				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup’t.
LADIES !
	Go to Taylor & Cutler’s for Dress Goods, No-
tions, etc. Also the Cheapest Store for Family Gro-
ceries in town. Call and see.
[new column]
H.  WALLACE 
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place, for ladies
to purchase.
CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
DR. W. H. GROVES,
						DENTIST,
   Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
		Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.

	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

				JOHNSON’S

	HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES

Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-

	ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.

	BONESET PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.

	EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.

	CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.

	ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills. Price 50 cents.

   These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at 

	ZION’S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,

Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.

  If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them.

  Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.

  AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.

From the Laboratory of
						J. E. JOHNSON,
						 -St. George, Utah.
[new column]
		WOMAN’S EXPONENT. 


		A UTAH LADIES’ JOURNAL. 

	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.

	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.
	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!”

	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.

	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.
	
	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.

	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.

	WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarte.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.

	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1  Copy one year,	     $2.00	  1 Copy six months.    $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months, 9.00

	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

  Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers WOMAN’S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


Woman's Exponent.
VOL. I. 	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1872	No. 8.﻿


NEWS AND VIEWS.
	Riots in Rhenish Prussia have followed
the expulsion of the Jesuits. More religion!
	The California State Fair commences
at Sacramento on the 19th and continues to
the 27th.
	The water supply of Albany is failing
and a milk famine threatens the city. A
steady flowing artesian well might avert
the danger.
	The Marquis of Lorne and other Eng-
lish noblemen take turns in preaching to
the London working classes; and they might
be much worse employed.
	With gold as the god of the world, aud
the “almighty dollar” so earnestly wor-
shipped, it is no wonder the question “Will
it pay?” is so often asked.
	A colored woman recently jerked her
arm out of joint in her religious fervor at a
camp meeting. Such exercises make
fashionable piety in some places.
	A new religious sect has sprung up in
Iowa, composed entirely of Germans, who
hold a community of property and live
under the prominent rules of the Paris Com-
munists.	
	Henry Wilson, Republican candidate
for Vice-President, admits he was a Know-
Nothing once, and, as a consequence, was
opposed to foreign born citizens holding
any office.
	The Geneva Board of Arbitration has
concluded-its labors, and the world may re-
pose in quietude for a season, the intermin-
able “Alabama” claims being at length
disposed of.
	Von Moltke sent to Thiers, with “his
compliments,” a copy of his history of the
Franco-German war. How the grim old
strategist must have chuckled at the sat-
urnine humor of such a present so for-
warded!
	Pere Hyacinth, the famous preacher
of Notre Dame, in Paris, has broken his
views of celibacy, as well as broken with
the Pope, and like Martin Luther has mar-
ried. Sensible Hyacinth! he may now
become a pere in reality.
	A Congress of the Internationalists sat
at the Hague early this month, and decided
that the general Council of the society
should be located in New York. The
struggle between capital and labor in this
country will ripen as a result.
	Maine election occurred on the 9th,
and the heaviest vote for years was polled.
The Republicans carried the State by a
largely reduced majority when compared
with the last vote given as heavy as the one
this year, and that was in 1868.
	The New York “Tribune” speaks of the
“Woman’s Journal” as being “conducted
by several very estimable ladies of both
sexes.” It has, therefore, the advantage
of a large number of other journals, that
are conducted by ancient grannies of the
masculine sex.
	Queen Victoria is a grandmother again.
The daughters of this august lady, like
their mother, have not learned the fashion-
able crime of murdering their unborn off-
spring. They pattern after a noble and
[next column]
virtuous mother, and make amiable and
matronly wives.
	Joseph Jefferson, so lately nearly blind
from the use of a powerful light which he
was accustomed to have play upon his face
in “Rip Van Winkle,” is again able to fol-
low his profession. A Iess brilliant light so
employed may save to the stage, for years,
one of its leading ornaments.
	An “Autobiography of Satan” has
been prepared for the press by Dr. Beard,
of England; but the learned doctor does
not claim that it is his own biography; he
only edits it. The inference may be drawn
that he was on good terms with the charac-
ter whose personal history is to be given to
the world.
	The re-election of Grant is advocated by
Wendell Phillips, who also admits that he
was in error when the mission of the Re-
publican party was said, by him, to he at
an end. The “national scold" may live to
acknowledge that he has committed other
blunders quite as serious as that one, or per-
haps more so.
	“Can Editors be manufactured?” is a
question now stirring certain journalistic
circles. Of course they can, if there is the
right material at hand to manufacture them
of. The difficulty now is that the average
material used is left in an unmanufactured
condition, and in working itself into shape
it often presents a strange mass of incon-
gruous development.
	In the potteries at Leeds, England, one
thousand women are employed, working
nine hours a day, at the rate of sixty cents
a week. Some of our charity-loving neigh-
bors, who wish to donate a portion of their
means for the relief of the “down-trodden
women of Utah,” might do good by making
up contributions for the aid and encourage-
ment of such female laborers, who are wear-
ing life away in semi-slavery, with, appar-
ently, no hope of brighter days.
	Berlin has been in a blaze of military
glory and frantic enthusiam over three Em-
perors meeting in cordial greeting and im-
perial pomp. How many of those whose
voices called forth echoes from the blue
vault above, in response to their thoughtless
and wild cheers, will find bloody graves as
a result of the crowned heads of Germany,
Russia and Austria thus meeting? Am-
bition continues its promptings, and what
diplomacy cannot reach in the way of con-
quest, the cannon and the bayonet will be
invoked to accomplish.
	“Agassiz thinks the jelly fish has an
Immortal soul” sneeringly says an exchange.
And why not? Will some sage tell where
immortality terminates in the animal crea-
tion? And why should man be supposed
to be the only being endowed with immor-
tality? What kind of a heaven would it
be where men and womon would be the
only living creatures that once inhabited
earth? And what about the horses and
other members of the brute creation seen
in vision by John the Divine as inhabiting
eternity? Modern theology is a strange
bundle of crudities.
	“The appointment by the Mormons of
missionaries to evangelize Europe and the
United States looks very much like as if
[next column]
the tail was trying to wag the dog,” says
“Hearth and Home.” Just so; and so it
was felt some eighteen hundred and odd
years ago, by the pharisaic Hebrews and
the philosophers of pagan Rome, concern-
ing a few ignorant fishermen of Galilee.
Yet now those same fishermen are canon-
ized by the most powerful nations of the
world. Time is a great revolutionizer, and
that which is most derided to-day may be-
come in a few years most popular and
sought after.
	A convention of extreme, or Bourbon,
Democrats has been held in Louisville, Ky.,
to nominate still other men as candidates to
“rule over us,” if the people would so will
it. They rejected Greeley and repudiated
the action of the Democracy at Baltimore;
and, after nominating Charles O’Conor, of
New York, and John Quincy Adams, of-
Massachusetts, for President and Vice
President, their candidates declined the
honor, while endorsing the movement; and
the convention dissolved determined to vote
for their chosen ones whether they accepted
or not. Politicians do many knavish things,
many dishonorable things, and from this
Louisville convention it is fair to infer they
are capable of many exceedingly silly
things.
	The “Golden Age” is authority for say-
ing that the Republican Executive Com-
mittee at Washington has issued a confiden-
tial circular to certain prominent members
of the Woman’s Rights party, to organize
Grant and Wilson clubs and thus work for
the re-election of General Grant. And
there are among them those who will snap
at the bait, although the party, with a large
working majority in Congress, could easily
have passed an Amendment to the Consti-
tution, any time in the last four years, to
make woman suffrage a part of the supreme
law of the land, and have sent it to the va-
rious States for ratification. Rut they did
not; and the quasi recognition of woman’s
worth, contained in the Philadelphia plat-
form, was no more than a shallow attempt
to secure the influence of the Woman’s
party in the Presidential campaign.
	The steamer “Metis” struck by a
schooner off Rhode Island,and sinking, with
a loss of life very great but its extent not
fully known; the burning of the “Bien-
ville” off Central America, between thirty
and forty more souls being hurried into
eternity; and the burning of the “Ameri-
ca” in Chinese waters, with a loss of over a
million dollars in property and eighteen
lives; are some of the marine disasters re-
corded within the past two weeks. We
boast of the advance made in science and
art, of how the elements can be controlled
or resisted, what wonderful appliances are
ready to prevent accidents, casualties and
disasters; yet the sum total of the loss of
life and property from such causes would
stagger belief if computed in the aggregate.
But mankind in their high-mindedness and
pride will not believe that the Eternal is
speaking to thorn in signs of the times, with
the elements as His agents, fulfilling the
prophecies and pointing to the near future
when He will make bare His arm in power
for the accomplishment of His fore-ordained
purposes.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE BLESSINGS OF TO-DAY.

Strange, we never prize the music
	Till the sweet-voiced birds are flown;
Strange that we should slight the violets,
	Till the lovely flowers are gone;
Strange that summer skies and sunshine
	Never seem one-half so fair,
As when winter’s snowy pinions,
	Shake the white down in the air.

Lips from which the seal of science,
	None but God can roll away,
Never blossomed of such beauty,
	As adorns the mouth to-day;
And sweet words that freight our memory,
	With their beautiful perfume,
Come to us in sweeter accents,
	Through the portals of the tomb.

Let us gather up the sunbeams,
	Lying all around our path;
Let us keep the wheat and roses,
	Casting out the thorns and chaff;
Let us find our sweetest comfort,
	In the blessings of the day,
With a patient hand removing
	All the briers from our way.


﻿F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
	Mrs. Amy L.Bigler, Secretary of the F.R.
Society of Nephi, Juab county, sends us the
following, dated August 29th:
	It is now four years since the organiza-
tion of our Female Relief Society. Since
that time we have been trying to do all we
could to assist the poor, and to do our duty
in blessing those who have required a word
of counsel from us. We have one of the
best of Presidents, Mrs. Amelia Golds-
brough. We have not handled much means,
but have tried to do the best we could with
what we have had. We own one house and
lot in the north part of town, a building
spot on Main street, in the centre of town,
and a good portion of material for building
on the lot; have the foundation laid, and
expect to put up a good house this fall.
Have given $400.13 to the poor, and $30 to
the Emigration fund. Have received in all,
since the Society was organized, $836.63.

MINUTES OF A SPECIAL MEETING OF THE F. R. SOCI-
				ETIES OF PROVO.
			Meeting House, Sep. 5, 1872.
	Present, President A. O. Smoot, Bishops
Tanner, Scott, Follett and Johnson. Presi-
dent Smoot was chosen to preside.
	After the usual ceremonies of singing
and prayer, President Smoot said he met
Sister E. R. Snow in Salt Lake city, can-
vassing for students in view of opening a
school of medicine and surgery for the in-
struction of females; that those possessed
of nerve, energy and ambition for such a
laudable life, might have opportunities of
qualifying themselves. He had promised
his support by laying the matter before the
ladies of Provo, which he proposed to do
to-day. He suggested that suitable persons
be selected to attend that school. This
idea was already in practical operation in
the east, and why should not the women
of Utah take measures for gaining a knowl-
edge of the physical organization of the
human system, especially that of the fe-
males, that the ladies of our community
might receive, when necessary, medical or
surgical treatment from those of their own
sex? He said, furthermore, that the right
of franchise would prove a great blessing
in aiding the ladies to assert their right to
hold public office, and was anxious to see
them take an interest in all branches of co-
operation, that principle being one of the
stepping-stones to the Order of Enoch. It
was also their privilege to assist in emigrat-
ing the poor by enriching the P. E. Fund.
He alluded to the duties of the F. R. Socie-
ties in their administrations to the poor,
[next column]
and said theirs was a noble calling of love
and mercy, and in their appointments they
receive a portion of the priesthood of God.
He also touched on the responsibilities of
maternity in connection with the knowledge
of the gospel and its covenants. The
mother has the molding of the character of
her offspring; and mothers should realize
this in its keenest sense. The immorality
and waywardness of youth to a great ex-
tent are owing to a false sympathy or a
lack of the performance of their duty, by
parents. The Sunday school was one of the
great helps which should be encouraged as
a safe-guard by parents. The influence of
woman should be exerted for promoting the
happiness and good of the community in
which she lives. He continued his exor-
tation by urging the necessity of subscrib-
ing, “one and all,” for the EXPONENT, it
being a powerful advocate for the principles
of our religion. The “Juvenile Instructor”
was another medium through which our
youth would receive the principles of life
and salvation, and should be in every family.
He also solicited all to take an interest in
the coming Territorial Fair.
	Bishops Tanner, Johnson and Scott fol-
lowed in brief but pointed remarks on the
welfare of woman, her duties and responsi-
bities, and exhorted each of them to study
principles which would save and prepare
them for their true position, as help-mates
to man in the redemption of the human
race.
	It was moved by Mrs. R. A. Holden and
seconded by Mrs. M. J. Tanner, that Mrs.
L. W. Kimball forward a report of this
meeting to the Exponent for publication.
	Adjourned sine die.
					L. W. KIMBALL,
							Secretary.
	A meeting of the First Ward F. R. Soci-
ety was held on Thursday, September 5th;
sisters Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. Young and
others being present by invitation. After
singing and prayer, some excellent minutes
of a previous meeting were read. Mrs.
Z. D. Young first occupied a portion of time,
in encouraging the sisters of that ward, and
exhorting them to faithfulness and dili-
gence in learning and keeping the com-
mandments of God. Miss E. R. Snow then
addressed the meeting, advancing and
dwelling upon many beautiful and useful
subjects in a highly instructive and im-
pressive manner. Appropriate and inter-
esting remarks were also made by Brother
Mitchell, Bishop Joseph Warburton, Mrs.
Wheeler and Miss L.  L. Greene. The
meeting was then adjourned by singing,
“For the strength of the hills we bless thee,
Our God, our fathers’ God;” and benedic-
tion by Elder Mitchell. 
	Mrs. Mary Chase is President, and Eliza-
beth Thayne, Secretary, of the First Ward
Society. There are quite a number of poor
families belonging to the ward, who are
blessed and solaced by the energies and
good feelings and acts of the Society.
	At the meeting of the F. R. Society of
the Second Ward, in this city, held Septem-
ber 6th, Mrs. Ann McGregor presided in
the absence of the President Mrs. Necolena
Olsen. Meeting opened with singing, and
prayer by Mrs. Sarah Wheeler.  Testimo-
nies were borne to the truth of the gospel,
and business was transacted in a spirited
manner. Donations were handed in for the
purpose of assisting in finishing off the
ward school house, which, added to the col-
lection made at the previous meeting,
amounted to $34, according to the report of
the Secretary, Mrs. Jane Rickard. The So-
[next column]
ciety is united, without exception, in the
work of the advancement of the cause of
truth, and they rejoice in administering to
the wants of the needy and in comforting
the bereaved.
				OGDEN, Sept. 4, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Since my last, of July 20th, the Relief
Society of Ogden has held two very inter-
esting meetings. For some months past
our former President, Sister Harriet C.
Brown, has desired and requested to resign
her office, which was much regretted by
all, yet it was not that she desired to cease
her labors or her interest for the Society.
By invitation President Richards, Bishop
Herrick and Counsellor Thompson attended
and assisted to complete our reorganization,
as well as to teach us. Sister Jane S.
Richards was unanimously elected Presi-
dent, and she selected Sisters H. C. Brown
and Sarah Herrick for her counsellors, who
were accepted and sustained with the great-
est unanimity of feeling. We are not
troubled with division of sentiments, al-
though there are some who do not seem to
appreciate the value of our institution, as
the Prophet Joseph and other leading
Elders in the church must have done. Still,
we hope to see the growing interest increase
and extend until all the truly worthy are
engaged with us. On the occasion of the
setting apart of our sisters to their new
callings, we were favored with much very
interesting and profitable instruction from
the presiding brethren who met with us.
President Richards after telling us much
we ought to do, exhorted the Society to be
lively and energetic,and not to be so afraid of
doing wrong as to not dare to do right.
Bishop Herrick expressed himself much
pleased with the instructions given, and
said he was only sorry all the members of
the Societies in the county were not present
to hear them, and profit by them. He felt
to bless the Society and all God’s people.
	Sister Beckington and counsellors, from
Marriott settlement, contributed to the in-
terest of the meeting by cheering remarks.
	Sister Richards expressed herself anxious
to do good in her new position, and asked
the forbearance of the sisters towards any
apparent shortcomings on her part. Sister
Brown felt better than ever in the condition
of the Society, and the work that is before
us. Our meeting, adjourned for two weeks.
			AMELIA M. FRODSHAM,
						Secretary.


YATE, the present primate of the Church
of England, and Manning, the famous Ro-
man Catholic archbishop of Westminster,
were both pupils, forty years ago, to a cler-
gyman named Cheese, who still lives in
England. It must be gratifying to the
aged tutor to now see the fruits of his by-
gone labors. A young and gifted mission-
ary belonging to the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, last winter met, for
the first time in several years, the aged
elder who, he said, “taught him his letters.”
Tears came into the eyes of the gray-haired
man when he spoke of his former pupil,
that evening, in the family circle; partly
perhaps with the memory of what a little
“try patience” he once had to put up with.


THE telegraph which daily announces
enormous failures, seems to admonish com-
mercial men of an approaching crisis, which
gives apprehenshions of no very pleasing
results; for under the present maladmini-
stration of Government officials, a rather
calamitous financial storm is pending,
which threatens destruction to many.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE HAND OF GOD.

			TO A BEREAVED MOTHER. 
Dear sister, the evils which life’s pathway strew,
Are striving for ever the good to outdo;
They vex and torment us, afflict and bereave,
And in every manner bewilder and grieve;
They load us with burdens we scarce can sustain,
They tempt us with pleasures or torture with
	pain!
Whoever undaunted would patiently stand,
Must see and acknowledge the Great ruling Hand.

Ag’d friend, I can sympathize deeply with you :
Though young, I have had some experience too;
I have tasted, though lightly, of life’s bitter cup,
And can feel for my fellows when sadly they sup:
Your late, sudden loss is a sorrowful one—
Hereft in old age of a dutiful son;
Yet wounded and rack'd, bowing low to the sod,
'Tis good to acknowledge the kind Hand of God.

May you answer at last, “Though worn and dis-
	tressed,
With reliance unshaken still onward I’ve pressed;
Though tempted and tried, yet my heart hath not
	fail-d,
For good o’er the evil within me prevailed;
The thick c ouds of darkness were forced to de-
	part;
Warm, beautiful sunshine stole into my heart;
And there, with the balm and the chastening rod,
I saw the just Hand of a merciful God.”
									L. L.


﻿HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	IT IS not so material what you say as how
you say it. And this rule works famously
in other respects, as well as in regard to
speaking. Particularly is it adapted to
cookery. As some people have the happy
art of saying almost anything and having
it sound well, while others, less gifted in
that direction, can hardly express any
thought in a pleasing manner; so some
cooks are extraordinarily fortunate in hav-
ing a way of fixing up good and tasty meals
out of a very little, while others cannot
make a palatable dish of any kind, though
they may have on hand every luxury that
could be desired for the purpose. The best
cooks are not those alone who can arrange
the greatest variety of dishes, but those
who can prepare their food, no matter what
it is, in the neatest, sweetest, and most
wholesome style. Good sweet bread and
butter alone make a far better repast than
many rich and dainty dishes improperly
prepared; and no woman, whatever her
other attainments may be, can be considered
really a good housewife, who cannot make
these two articles. Neatness and economy
should characterize all our domestic con-
cerns. Prudence does not show a lack of
generosity, but quite the reverse; but ex-
travagance and waste are next to dishonesty
and should, at all times, be carefully guarded
against. And for the sake of the children,
great pains should be taken by mothers, to
have such food on hand as is suited for their
age and physical development.
	A SENSIBLE mother makes the following
remarks upon the physical treatment of
children:
	“The physical treatment of children is
important, but simple, if one wishes to
make it so. The main points are, bathing,
regularity of eating and sleeping hours,
simplicity of food, and out-of-door exercise.
	The habit of daily bathing should not be
suspended when a child is a few months
old. It is very little trouble, and, done
handily, takes little time. My experience
has been that it is not best to bathe a child
in entirely cold water. When he is put for
the first time in a bath-tub, the water
should be of such a temperature that he
may not perceive the transition from the
air to the water. I have often heard mothers
say that their children could not be bathed;
that they screamed as soon as they touched
[new column]
the water. There are ordinarily, but two
causes for this: either that the child was
not introduced to the bath-tub early enough
in his existence, or that the temperature of
the water was such as to shock him. When
your baby is thoroughly accustomed to the
tub, you can gradually reduce the tempera-
ture of the water, until, after a few months,
you can wash him in almost cold water.
	A child should eat regularly and simply,
but should have some variety of food. I
have found that a child soon gets tired of
one article, if confined to it. Bread and
milk, bread and butter, different forms of
toasted bread, simple preparations of corn
flour, rice boiled in milk, and roasted pota-
toes make a sufficient variety. Give your
child plenty of exercise in the open air; if
you live in a city, all I can say is, do the
best you can; but if you live in the coun-
try, there is no excuse for the child not hav-
ing as much exercise as is needful. If you
have a garden, then, in summer, leave
him out all day, if he enjoys it; in winter,
wrap him up, and send him out in moder-
ate and pleasant weather.
	Never mind about his getting dirty at
play. His face will be kept pretty clean if
he spends enough time in the open air to
prevent his taking bad colds, and if you do
not allow him to eat between meals.
	It is somewhat trying to see your little
boy or girl reveling in the midst of a pile
of dirt, especially when you remember that
Mrs. Herbert or Mrs. Fortescue, whose chil-
dren always look as if they had just issued
from a bandbox retirement, may possibly
call, and gaze with virtuously reproving
eyes; but never mind that. You are living
for your child; you know what is best for
its health and happiness, and do not allow
yourself to be moved from the course which
you know to be right by any false fear or
pride.”


﻿BEAUTIFUL REMINISCENCE.
	The following sentiments were expressed
by a Scandinavian sister, in the 14th Ward
Assembly Rooms, on Saturday afternoon,
August 31:
	“I cannot express my feelings as I would
like to do; but when I hear you talk of the
influence which mothers have over the
minds of their children, I can hardly repress
the tears that will come into my eyes, for I
remember my mother! And her wise coun-
sel is stamped upon my heart; and has ever
been, through all the trials and temptations
of my life, a source of comfort and of re-
straint. Although I was not more than
seven years old when I had to leave my
mother, I remember when she used to say
to me, ‘Don’t talk so much, my daugther;
the Angels don’t talk so much. Don’t
laugh loud; it is not good to laugh loud.’
And many other instructions which she
gave to her children are fastened on my
memory, and have seemed to be a safe-
guard to me in many circumstances through
which I have passed. I, therefore, know
that the words and examples of mothers
have a great weight with their children, in
forming their determinations and practices
through life. I know it is from those early
impressions, formed upon my mind, that I
was prepared to receive the light of the true
gospel; and I want to live to do something
for my mother. I am thankful that I know
the truth, and I shall never cease to praise
God and my mother!”


MISS Alice Bird has twice been invited
to a professorship in the Iowa Wesleyan
University.


﻿FLOWERS BY THE WAYSIDE.

	ONE bad example may spoil many good
precepts.
	THE love of praise should ever be pre-
served under proper subordination to the
principle of duty.
	GLORY is well enough for a rich man, but
it is of very little consequence to a poor man
with a large family.
	TOO much asseveration gives a ground of
suspicion. Truth and honesty have no need
of loud protestations.
	THOUGH often blighted, true affection
never dies, but will glow brightly over the
graves of envy and rivalry.
	HE who treats men ingenuously, and con-
verses kindly with them, gains a good
esteem with very little expense.
	SOCRATES, though primarily attentive to
the culture of his great mind, was not neg-
ligent of his external appearance.
	OF ALL the unhappy deserters from the
path of science, none seem less able to re-
turn than the followers of indolence.
	TRUTH has force, reason authority, and
justice power; but they are without lustre if
the most graceful way and manner be want-
ing.
	WHEN we reflect upon the many dis-
tresses which abound in human life, where
so much is suffered in common, little room
is left for envy.
	EVERY day hath its pains and sorrows,
but if we look impartially around us, we
shall find that every day hath also its
pleasures and joys.
	THE greatest benefits we ever do our-
selves is in securing the greatest amount of
real happiness, which is only done by doing
good to our fellow creatures.
	IN judging of others we should always
think the best, employing the spirit of char-
ity and candor; but in judging of ourselves,
we ought to be exact and severe.
	THE hope of future happiness is a per-
petual source of consolation to the good;
under trouble it sooths their minds, amidst
temptations it supports their virtue.
	ART thou poor? Show thyself active and
industrious, peaceable and contented. Art
thou wealthy? Show thyself beneficent
and charitable, condescending and humane.
	WITH all the troubles and cares which
mortals have to encounter here, if we look
for good instead of ill, we shall find, in
nearly all conditions in life, there is more
cause for gratitude than for regret.
	THE pursuits of sensual pleasures are not
those which afford in remembrance the
most rational satisfaction; we recollect with
most pleasure the innocent, virtuous, and
honorable parts of our past lives.
	WHERE good is to be administered, it is
better to give than to receive; but where
wrong comes in, it is better to receive than
to inflict an injury; and if the perpetrator
has a conscience he is sure to suffer most.
	THE palace of virtue has, in all ages, been
represented as placed on the summit of a
hill, the ascent of which can only be per-
formed by labor, where difficulties are to be
surmounted, and a conductor is needed to
direct and aid our steps.
	THE cost of a change from heavy to light
clothing, made by a brilliant young lady,
when attending a ball, on a damp, cloudy
evening, was first a sore throat and head-
ache, followed by torturing rheumatism,and
in less than a week, amounting to a burial
outfit.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
			Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City, Utah.

	SALT LAKE CITY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1872.


SPLINTERS.

	Engine makers at Berlin are on a strike...
Ex-empress Carlotta is fast sinking at Vi-
enna, with no hopes entertained of her re-
covery......Women blacksmiths abound in
Staffordshire......A young woman in New
Orleans is hopelessly blind, from drinking
water that passed through leaden pipes......
The Spanish war schooner “Condor,” was
burned at sea on her way to Hanover; crew
and passengers were saved......A daughter
of Senator Brownlow, of Tennessee, has
been placed in a convent for attempting to
elope with a stone cutter......Horace Gree-
ley’s brother, Barnes Greeley, is said, not to
be a Greeley man......Miss Emily Faithful,
editor of the “Victoria Magazine,” Eng-
land, is coming over to America, by invita-
tion, to see and lecture us.....The Sultan has
sent to the ex-Empress Eugenie a magnifi-
cent sapphire surrounded by large brilliants,
valued at $15,000......The French Prince
Imperial has obtained permission of Queen
Victoria to become a student of the Royal
Military Academy at Woolwich......Chicago
has a Scandinavian population of 43,000......
An eccentric South Bend beauty carries her
husband’s hod when sickness disables him...
The Arch Duke Charles, brother of the Em-
peror of Austria, is soon to be married to
the Princess Maria, youngest daughter of
King Ferdinand II, who is seventeen years
old......Spurgeon is coming to America......
Hugh Stowell Brown, England’s most cele-
brated Baptist pulpit orator, is lecturing in
the east.....Two thousand one hundred and
fifty-three California subscribers to the At-
lantic and Pacific railroad stock have made
the subscription aggregate $1,528,300......
Secretary Fish is delighted at the progress
of the Geneva arbitration......Greeley ac-
cuses the administration of playing strategy
to defeat his election......Yellow fever pre-
vails as an epidemic in Carthagenia, South
America......At Albany one bushel of pota-
toes is worth as much as two of wheat......
Two Fort Stevens girls paddled a small boat
from the Fort to Astoria, a few days ago......
Cholera is raging in Laeore and other places
in British India......General bankruptcy
threatens the planters of Alabama, owing
to the ruin of their cotton crops by the boll
worm......The Illinois “Straights,” in their
Springfield convention, adopted resolutions
and uttered bitter speeches against the sale
of the party at Baltimore to Greeley......
One thousand revolutionists are reported
still in arms in Sinaloa, Mexico......At Lin-
coln, the capital of Nebraska, the Democrats
coalesced in convention and nominated a
mixed State ticket, with Lett (Dem.) for
Governor......Proofs have been laid before
the United States Commission at Browns-
ville, Texas, of the complicity of officers of
the Mexican government in murders and
robberies on the Texan border......One of
the most opulent as well as agreeable ladies
at Saratoga, this season, is the widow of
General John H. Morgan, the famous
raider......The President of the California
State University receives a salary of $10,000
in gold, a year, a house and other things
for comfort......Roasted coffee is said to be
one of the most powerful of deodorizers,
actually destroying noxious animal and
vegetable effluvia......The lumbermen of
Maine predict that the forests in that State
will not last more than five years longer.
This year, the lumber is estimated at 700,-
000,000 feet......Iron springs have been dis-
covered at Long Branch and promise to add
to the popularity of that, already, popular
summer resort......The Emperor of Abys-
sinia has presented the Jardin d’ Acclimata-
tion, Paris, with six magnificent zebras,
[new column]
valued at L120 each......Baltimore has a
water famine and is about to spend $3,000,-
000 to remedy it......The electric current
passes through the Atlantic cable at a velo-
city of from seven thousand to eight thou-
sand nine hundred miles per second......Cal-
ifornia is making her first export of leather.
......Mark Twain will travel through Eng-
land, Ireland and Scotland......U. S. Grant,
junior, has gone to study in Hanover......
Tne mayor of Yeddo is in this country......
A Jewish temple, costing $60,000, is nearly
completed in Milwaukie, Wisconsin.......
Erie, Pa., was nearly destroyed by fire re-
cently......A part of the cathedral of Canter-
bury has been burned......Arthur Helps, the
author, is to be knighted......Baron Roths-
child, of Frankfort, is going to the Holy
Land......French soldiers are to be instruct-
ed in singing......The Countess de Blau-
cherry fought as a common soldier at a
battle near Orleans, during the late French
war, and has received the cross of the Le-
gion of Honor......Americans are crowding
to Baden-Baden this season. Gambling will
be prohibited there after the close of this
year......Powers, the sculptor, has been
made a Knight of the Brazilian Order of
the Rose......The Grand Duke of Hesse
Darmstadt is to marry an opera dancer......
The Crown-Princess Victoria, of Prussia,
daughter of Queen Victoria, offers a prize
of $8,000 for the best essay on advancing
the material prosperity of workingwomen....
Carlist troubles have again broken out in
Spain......Cluseret is preparing a history of
the Paris Commune......A new process of
preserving meat and vegetables has been
communicated to the French Academy of
Sciences.


﻿THE TERRITORIAL FAIR.

	The Board of Directors of the Deseret Agri-
cultural and Manufacturing Society are busily
engaged preparing for the approaching Fair.
Hon. A.P. Rockwood has been placed in charge
of the Fair grounds; Messrs. Henry Dinwoodey
and George Naylor are superintending the erec-
tion of stalls; and the work of preparation is
being actively pushed forward. The place in
which the exhibition will be held is the 13th
Ward Assembly Rooms, a large and commodi-
ous building, and the same in which the last
Fair, that of 1869, was held. In the rear,
ground has been secured for the display of
stock, which is expected to be very large; and
altogether the prospects are that the exhibition
will be, in every sense, a credit to the Terri-
tory.
	People see here and there a specimen of su-
perior work in some branch of industry; ele-
gant Utah-made furniture, an excellent fabric
of cloth, a piece of embroidery that would
compare with the best specimens from Scot-
land or Ireland, straw-work outvieing any im-
ported; or some other article showing the
artistic skill and cultivated taste which many
Utah workmen and workwomen possess; yet
the fact is soon forgotten; add even if it were
remembered it would give but a faint idea of


what is done or can be done in the Territory.
But when we have an exhibition of the work
of skilled hands from many parts of the Terri-
tory, the eye can take in at a glance an amount,
of knowledge that a volume of descriptive
writing would scarcely convey, in regard to
the growth and development of the country,
that in less than a quarter of a century has
been wrested from a barren wilderness.
	We need not urge upon the ladies of the Ter-
ritory to exert themselves that the Fair may
be a great success so far as their special depart-
ments are concerned, satisfied that the circular
of the Board of Directors, addressed to the Fe
male Relief Societies, which was published in
the last number of the EXPONENT, will meet a
gratifying response. Yet it would have been
better if the circular could have been given to
the public a month earlier, so that ladies could
have had more time and opportunities for the
selection of materials and arrangement of dif-
ferent specimens of home manufacture. The
length of time allowed is hardly sufficient for
the production of many articles of taste and
skill, especially for women with families to
look to, which must occupy a large portion of
their time.


﻿OUR FAITH.

	It is customary for many people to speak
slightingly and contemptuously of the faith held
by the Latter-day Saints. Some are pleased
to call it absurd, others declare it is monstrous.
Are they acquainted with it? We think not.
But they seem to think it sufficient that it is a
different faith from that which they believe.
How modest mankind are, generally speaking!
They are willing to concede that every person
who thinks or believes in the same theories,
and holds the same opinions that they do, is a
sensible, intelligent individual. And, as  a
matter of course, they must be very sensible,
intelligent people; right, indeed, in all matters
of belief or opinion, and everybody that differs
with them must be wrong. This is humanity
as we generally find it. Believers in Christi-
anity, as it has been modernized, are willing
to concede intelligence and the possession of
sensible religious views to other believed in
Christianity, so long as opinions are expressed
in general terms and may, by liberal construc-
tion, harmonize broadly with their own; but
let them narrow down to details, and the be-
liever in saving election will manifest positive
hate against one that has faith in the free will
doctrine; the unitarian and trinitarian will de-
nounce each other's pet opinions in the strong-
est terms; and the Protestant and Roman
Catholic will show a detestation each of the
faith held by the other, that has in the past
made myriads of victims for the rack, the
fagot, and the fiendish instruments of torture
with which one set of “Christians” endeavored
to send other “Christians” to a hell of endless
torments, because they would not travel
heavenward in a road marked out by mortals
as ignorant as themselves.
	This is religious intolerance. Every person's
religious opinions appear sensible, rational and
intelligent to that person; but to others they
may appear absurd. We have no hesitation
in saying that the beliefs of many of those who
sneer contemptuously at our faith, appear to
us absurd, contrary to the revelations of God,
and exhibiting a woeful lack of that knowledge
which gives its possessor power with the
Heavens and over the imperfections that flesh
is heir to. Yet we do not sneer at them; why
should we? It would be better to teach such
persons correct principles if they would hearken;
though too many are lifted up in their own


imaginations, and, full of the vanity which
springs from ignorance, will not be taught.
	Our faith is dear to us. It is no blind belief,
no ignorant fanaticism. It has been intelligently
embraced as satisfactory, to our reasoning pow-
ers. It has brought with it conviction of its
truth that no barren theory could bring; and
testimonies of its divine origin that no causu-
istry nor sophistry can overturn. It has buoyed
up the Latter-day Saints to the accomplish-
ments of works that have made their name
famous in every civilized country; and the
Lord of Hosts has stamped it with the impress
of His divine seal, that those who examine it
with clear gaze, In the light of eternal intelli-
gence, can see the sign manual under which it
has been sent forth for the salvation of a world.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE HOME  Missionaries continue their labors
throughout the Territory with excellent re-
sults.
	ONE THOUSAND tickets of admission to the
Territorial Fair have been printed by order of
the Board of Directors of the D. A. & M. Society.
	WILL OUR friends exert themselves to bring
in increased subscription lists for the EXPO-
NENT during the approaching Fair and Semi-
Annual Conference?
	THE EXPONENT is a woman’s paper, and we
would be pleased to have still more contribu-
tions from ladies who sympathize with its ob-
jects and desire its success. We hope this
general invitation will be accepted in the place
of private and personal ones.
	ELDER BRIGHAM YOUNG, junior, of the
Twelve Apostles, has been presented to the
people, of Cache county, in conference assem-
bled, as president of Cache and Rich counties,
and the appointment has been sustained by
their unanimous vote and united prayers.
	HONS. GEORGE A. SMITH, Wilford Woodruff
and George Q. Cannon and A. M. Musser, Esq.,
have gone to California to attend the State
Fair, as a delegation from the Deseret Agricul-
tural and Manufacturing Society. Their visit
will be of value to the industries of Utah.
	THE VOTE of this Territory at the last gen-
eral election, held August 5th of the present
year, was 22,913; and yet Utah is refused a
State government! Probably the fact that Mr.
Cannon, the People’s candidate, received 20,969
against 1,942 for his opponent, may account in
part for its continued condition of tutelage.
	THE PRIMARY and intermediate department
of the University of Deseret opened on Septem-
ber 2nd, with Miss Mary E. Cook as principal.
It gives us much pleasure to speak in the
warmest commendation of this lady’s abilities
as a practical instructor and teacher of large
experience. The department has about two
hundred pupils, with room for more, in the
Social Hall in this city, where the classes
meet.
	A FEW days ago the ground was dedicated
and broken for the water-works of this city,
Alderman Groo, of the City Council, offering
the dedicatory prayer, and Mayor Wells turn-
ing the first shovelful of earth, followed by
President Young also moving part of the soil.
We chronicle the fact for several reasons.
First, these are the first city water-works com-
menced in the Territory; second, they mark the
growth, of the city and the large increase of
population; and, third, that at the inception
of all public improvements, those for what are
termed secular uses as well as those for ecclesi-
astical purposes, the Latter-day Saints always
invoke the Divine blessing upon their labors,
[new column]
and dedicate their work, and the ground that
is to be devoted to such purposes, to the Al-
mighty under whose providential care they en-
joy all the blessings which they possess.
	A TERRIBLE tragedy occurred in this city on
September 3rd. One young man named Wil-
ford Tibbits, sought and met two others named
B. Whiting and W. Wilson, accused the for-
mer of traducing him, struck them both with
a heavy club, and was shot and killed by Wil-
son, who was subsequently arrested, examined
and discharged, on the ground that the homi-
cide was justifiable, being committed in self-
defense. The deed of blood was the result of
evil passions, revenge, and, it is said, intemper-
ance. How carefully mothers should guard
and guide their children in early years, to the
repression of outbursts of vindictive passions;
how wisely should the steps of the young be
directed, that their older years may be marked
by a course honorable in itself and winning
the esteem of the good, instead of one that
might bring shame and disgrace, for evil deeds!


﻿KITES AHOY!
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	You will confer a favor on the Telegraph
Companies by asking boys not to fly kites
in proximity to telegraph wires, as they
very often “foul” the lines and give serious
trouble, especially during wet weather. If
parents will urge their sons to keep away
from the wires with kites, and not to throw
rocks at the insulators, superintendents will
feel under obligations.
		Respectfully,
			A. M. MUSSER, Superintendent.
	Salt Lake City, Sept. 7, 1872.


﻿WOMAN’S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Had I been more literarily inclined, when
my parents and teachers used to urge upon
me the necessity of studying my books, I
should now be able to write a more interest-
ing letter to your paper than, I fear, I shall
do this time. But, however, as so few of
our efficient writers seem disposed to enun-
ciate the principles of truth in their more
elaborate and refined manner, now that
there is a chance for it, I trust that I may
not be thought out of place in offering a few
simple statements in my humble way. Es-
pecially as you have extended a general in-
vitation to all the broken-hearted, (!) down-
trodden (!!) to speak for themselves and tell
their own grievances. I have a story to
tell, I have a testimony to bear, and may
the Spirit of the Lord direct me that it
may be done in meekness and sincerity, and
be productive of good.
	It is a very extraordinary thing for an
English factory girl to mingle much in
young and gay society, and preserve her
dignity, chastity and reputation; as, doubt-
less, many of my readers can testify. Yet
such was my experience for some years,
and, thank Heaven, I escaped without a
blemish; owing perhaps to my falling des-
perately in love, at an early age, with a
young man who was the soul of honor, but
who was engaged to another lady and, con-
sequently, although he was very fond of
me, could not marry me. When he left
our place, all the young people began to
wonder on whom I would next fasten my
affections; for they did not know, and
neither did I then, that I never should care
for any one else. Two years afterwards,
the Mormon Elders came and preached the
gospel to us. My widowed mother joined


the church, and it was to please her, five
years after, that I consented to emigrate to
America, and come to the valleys of the
Saints. My associates of the factory tried
by dissuading me, to prevent my coming.
They talked of the “poor, miserable Mor-
mons,” and their horrid practices. But
when they found I was determined to fulfil
my agreements with my mother, they made
me promise to write them the truth
when I got to Utah.
	I have done so. I have told them how I
attended meetings for a long time before I
became convinced that it was the truth of
Heaven which the elders taught. How six
months after I had been baptized, I hap-
pened to meet, at a general conference,
with my old love, of whom I had not heard
a word for more than seven years, and his
wife whom I had never met before. And
that they both still declare they are happier
for having found me, and can realize and
acknowledge that the hand of God has been
over us all for good. The factory girls still
ridicule and laugh at me, but I do not mind
that, since I know that but for their pride
and ignorance they would any of them own
that they envy me my dear, honored hus-
band and my baby.
							K.G.


﻿MOTHER-IN-LAW.

	It is really lamentable to see the little
feeling which is evinced by married people
in general, and gentlemen in particular, for
the mothers of their consorts. Derisive
songs are sung, light speeches are made and
laughter provoked in connection with the
name of mother-in-law, which should be
one of the most sacred. Gentlemen do not
seem to realize, while basking in the sun-
light of youth, beauty and wit, which give
the fascinating charms to girlhood, how
much those fair young creatures are indebt-
ed to the care-worn matrons, whose wishes
are so often met with  ridicule and consid-
ered whimsical, for all that makes them
gentle and lovely and their companionship
desirable. Or, that young girls, if they
live, are bound to become aged women in
their time, and most of them, doubtless,
even such despicable creatures as—mothers-
in-law!
	Because a mother is more solicitous for
the happiness and welfare of her daughter
than any other being knows how to be, even
the daughter herself; because she realizes
more fully the fearful dangers which sur-
round, in many different forms, the state of
beautiful maidenhood, her anxiety and con-
cern are frequently misconstrued into what
unthinking and injudicious people consider
undue restriction, and even a lack of sym-
pathy on the part of the mother for her
child. Some foolhardy young men think
that when they marry their sweethearts,
the mothers have no farther claim on them,
that they have relinquished all right to direct
or advise, if they ever had any; and they
take it as an undisguised affront for their
mother-in-law to make an occasional sug-
gestion in regard to the management of the
household affairs or the care of the babies.
	Well, young men must live and learn,
like other folks; but I wish some of them
would learn a little more readily about such
things, and not take lessons, so much at the
expense of the feelings of their wives and
their wives’ mothers. Young men, please
consider that if your mothers-in-law are
women, they have lived longer in the world
than you have, and may have gained some
little information that you have never
thought of, with all your wisdom.
							FRANK.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE NURSERY ELF.

Dear little feet, how you wander and wander,
	Little twin truants, so fleet;
Dear little head, how you ponder and ponder
	Over the things that you meet.

Dear little tongue, how you chatter and chatter
	Over your innocent joys.
Oh! but the house is alive with your clatter—
	Shaking, indeed, with your noise.

Can't you be quiet a moment, sweet rover ?
	Is there no end to your fun ?
Soon the “old sand man” will sprinkle you over
	Then the day’s frolic is done.

Come to my arms, for the daylight is dying,
	Closer the dark shadows creep;
Come, like a bird that is weary of flying,
	Come, let me sing you to sleep.


﻿TO MAKE HOME HAPPY.

	A smile, a gentle word of kindness, a
tidy room and baby with a face clean enough
to be kissed, should always be in readiness
for the reception of the head of a family
when he comes in fatigued and careworn,
from the pressure of the busy, daily routine
of the outside world. Let him feel that if
sympathy cannot be found elsewhere, it al-
ways exists for him at home. Let him see
that his goodness in planning and laboring
for the support and comfort of his dear ones,
is appreciated and gratefully acknowledged
by the performance of every little action of
love that can be thought of for his enjoy-
ment at home. Never let him meet with a
fretful and fault-finding spirit, under the
shades of that roof which should be the
covering of his heaven on earth. If there
are losses and crosses to be met, let the dif- 
ferent members of families help to meet
them bravely, instead of trying to discour-
age. If a husband and father does not, at
all times, pay just that attention to his
family that they think he should do, let it
be remembered that he has many things to
think of, many duties to perform, that they
are not acquainted with, and could, prob-
ably, render him no assistance in, were he
to take the time to explain to them, in-
stead of making a little show of negligence,
by not endeavoring to make his family un-
derstand all his business affairs. Let heads
of families realize that to such testimonials
they owe a reciprocity, and should spend as
much time as possible at home, and always
be possessed of the same good influence
they love to meet with.
								G.


﻿USE AND ABUSE OF DRESS.
			    _____
	It was Lavater who said that women
habitually attentive to dress display the
same regularity in their domestic affairs, 
while another writer, alluding to the care-
lessness of some wives concerning their at-
tire, emphatically affirms, "It is one of the
moral duties of every married woman to
appear well-dressed in the presence of her
husband." But to effect this, expensive or
elaborate attire is by no means essential. 
The simplest robe may evince the wearer's
taste as truly as the most costly gown of
"moire antique"—in fact, the simplest
dresses are often the most graceful. Gar-
ments should follow, as far as possible, the
shape of the body as devised and found
good by the great Artificer. All that follows
those beautiful lines must be itself beauti-
ful. All that changes, deforms, or exagger-
ates those lines must be senseless, ugly, 
ludicrous and untrue. Whether a gown
swell out into the hoops of the great tun of
Heidelberg, or project backward like the re-
verse side of the Hottentot Venus, it is
alike hideous. A gown may be of many
folds, of many thicknesses, but it should
[new column]
not turn a woman into a caricature of the
form God made, and made last of all. All
women will admit the truth of this, even
while they persist in disfiguring themselves
in the very manner condemned, for, in jus-
tice to the mass of elaborately-dressed ladies
who daily walk our streets, we must admit
that were they to follow inclination alone,
their costumes would be much simpler.
There breathes not the woman who does
not secretly detest her narrow-soled boots,
with their pointed heels; the heating, brain-
depressing “chignon;” the uncomfortable
corset and unwieldy “panier.” Yet she
lacks courage to discard these instruments
of torture because fashion sanctions their
use. O fashion, fashion! Dare you number
your victims? This mania for costly “dress”
is devastating our American society, and
demoralizing American women to an alarm-
ing extent. The wives and daughters of
the rich men who lead society in this fear-
ful race of extravagance are responsible for
a great share of the prostitution which
curses the nation as-well as for thousands of
business failures, scattered families, and the
long train of miseries among us under the
cover of “keeping up appearances.” An
English tourist recently traveling through
America, complained that owing to the
prevalent custom of elaborate dressing fol-
lowed by American women, it was impos-
sible to distinguish the “shop-girl” from
the “lady of means.” And that brings us
to another part of this subject. Poor girls
dress as expensively as possible, because
they well know that if they do not, society
will punish them bitterly. To be unable to
“dress” is to be treated by men and women
both with almost disrespect in the car, the
boat, at the public gathering, the street and
the shop; to be ignored; to feel the shrug
of contempt, the sneer of levity and the
smile of scorn; to be thrust aside; to be
laughed at; to be unceremoniously dis-
placed; to be cruelly driven out of good so-
ciety; to have heart, intelligence, thought,
virtue, character, held as nothing against
silk; to be stung; to be outraged; to
be proscribed; to be insulted: all this
and much more. It matters not
whether this state of things is right or
wrong; it exists, as every woman who can-
uot follow fashion’s whims knows to her 
cost. It is time for a reform to commence
somewhere; but what woman will head it?
And “what man” will approve and help
her?—“Waverly Magazine.”


TEACH THE WOMEN TO SAVE.—There’s
the secret! A saving woman at the head of
the family is the very best saving bank es-
tablished—one receiving deposits daily and
hourly, with no costly machinery to manage
it. The idea of saving is a pleasant one,
and if the women would imbibe it at once,
they would cultivate and adhere to it, and
thus when they were not aware of it, would
be laying the foundation of a competent se-
curity in a stormy time, and shelter in a
rainy day. The woman who sees to her
own house has a large field to save in. The
best way to make her comprehend it is to
keep an account of all current expenses.
Probably not one woman in ten has an idea
how much are the expenditures of herself
and family. Where from one to two thou-
sand dollars are expended annually, there
is a chance to save something if the effort
is made. Let the housewife take the idea,
act upon it, and she will save many dollars
—perhaps hundreds—where before she had
thought it impossible. This is a duty, yet
not a prompting of avarice, but a moral
obligation, that rests upon the woman as
well as the man.—"Elko Independent.”


﻿THE SEX.

	NO WOMEN have applied for admission to
Amherst College this year.
	THE WIFE of the late General Robert An-
derson will reside in Florence hereafter.
	SIX ladies will be admitted to the
Wesleyan University, at Middletown, at
the next term.
	MISS Rye is on her way from Liverpool
with another lot of model servant girls for
the Canadians.
	IT IS an error to imagine that women talk
more than men. They’re listened to more
—that’s all.
	MRS. Barnard, a lady of some journal-
istic experience, has become managing edi-
tor of the Washington “Chronicle.”
	THREE ladies act as notaries public in
Iowa. They are Miss Zoe Taylor, Miss E.
C. Stebbins and Miss Laura A. Berry.
	“THE charming Lotta” is abroad, dili-
gently pursuing the study of French and
music in the boading school of a French
convent.
	YOUNG ladies will hereafter be admitted
to the collegiate department of Griswold
College, Iowa, on the same terms as the
young men.
	THE Academy of Sciences at Philadel-
phia has elected a woman to full fellowship,
and there is also a lady on one of its active
committees.
	AFTER a competitive examination, Miss
Carrie S. Sheads has been promoted from a
second to a first class clerkship in the Bu-
reau of Statistics.
	“THE only remarkable thing,” says Han-
nah More, “which belonged to me as an
authoress was, that I had written eleven
books after the age of 60.”
	THE Massachusetts Woman Suffrage As-
sociation has again appointed a committee
to bring the quesion of woman suffrage be-
fore the respective political parties at their
approaching State conventions.
	SIGNORA Aurelia Cinimo Falliero De
Luna, a well-known Italian authoress, has
established in Florence a semi-monthly
newspaper, entitled the "Cornelia," devoted
to the advocacy of Woman's Rights and the
promotion of the education of Italian
women.
   TENNIE Claflin and Victoria Woodhull
announce that they will sue the Springfield
(Mass.) "Republican" for libel for allowing
a correspondent to say that they had at-
tempted to blackmail Susan B. Anthony,
Lucy Stone, Elizabeth S. Phelps, and others.
They also propose to sue these ladies for
making the charge originally.
	THE expectation that Miss Nellie Grant
is to "come out" this season, fills the hearts
of the fashionable young ladies of Washing-
ton with unwonted hope. It was under-
stood before she left on the European trip
that this winter her appearance "in society"
would be the key-note of many others bud-
ding in their latest teens to enter the arena
of social fashion.
	MADEMOISELLE Celeste, the tight-rope
artist, had her leg broken by the rope giv-
ing way during one of her performances at
Shawneetown, Ky. The physician who set
the limb evidently did not know his busi-
ness, and instead of joining the bones to-
gether he lapped one over the other,
consequently the broken limb is about three
inches shorter than the other. She is now
on her way home, in Rome, N. Y., to have
the family physician break that limb again,
and reset it.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.

	SEVENTY thousand dollars worth of silks,
supposed to have been smuggled, have been
seized in New York.
	A YOUNG lady who had many admirers
among the limbs of the law, on being
asked how she escaped heart-whole, sup-
posed it was owing to the fact that “in a
multitude of ‘counselors’ there is safety.”
	GOD looks not at the oratory of our pray-
ers, how eloquent they are; nor at their
geometry, how long they are; nor at their
arithmetic, how many they are; nor at their
logic, how methodical they are; but he looks
at their sincerity, how spiritual they are.
	A WOMAN lately looking at a printing-
press at work, looked up in the face of her
companion, and in a most earnest manner
inquired:
	“Well, Tim, an’ them’s the things as
writes the papers. Be’s them what they
call editors?”
	A NAUGHTY little boy blubbering because
his mother wouldn’t let him go down to
the river on the Sabbath, upon being ad-
monished, said: “I didn’t want to go a
swimmin’ with ’em ma. I only wanted to
go down and see the bad little boys drown
for going a swimmin’ on Sunday.”
	WISDOM is the associate of Justice. It
assists her to form equal laws, to pursue
right measures, to correct power, to protect
weakness, and to unite individuals in a
common interest and general welfare. He-
roes may kill tyrants, but it is wisdom and
laws that prevent tyranny and oppression.
	IT IS a sign of Christian manhood, where
one, though all the selfish instincts of his
nature impel him to do otherwise, thinks
mercifully, and waits to be gracious, and,
if he cannot form an opinion without sever-
ity, withholds his judgment till he can form
one that shall have more mercy in it. Take
care of the secret thoughts, of the inward
judgments which you form of men.
	THE character of the young men of any
community depends much on that of the
young women. If the latter are cultivated,
intelligent, accomplished, the young men
will feel the requirement that they them-
selves should be upright, and gentlemanly
and refined; but if their female friends are
frivolous and silly, the young men will be
found to be dissipated and worthless.
	DR. HOLMES says; “A woman, notwith-
standing she is the best of listeners, knows
her business, and it is a woman’s business
to please. I don’t say it is not her business
to vote, but I do say that the woman who
does not please, is a false note in the harmo-
nies of nature. She may not have youth
nor beauty, nor even manners; but she must
have something in her voice or expression,
or both, which makes you feel better dis-
posed toward your race to look at or listen
to.”
	A YOUNG mother was in the habit of air-
ing the baby’s clothes at the window. Her
husband did not like it, and believed if she
saw her practice as others saw it she would
desist. He so directed their afternoon
walk as to bring the nursery window into
full view from the central part of the town.
Stopping abruptly, he pointed to the offend-
ing linen flopping unconsciously in the
breeze, and asked sarcastically, “My dear,
what is that display in our window?”
“Why,” she replied, “that is the flag of our
union.” Conquered by this pungent retort,
he saluted the flag by a swing of his hat,
and pressing his wife’s arm closer within
his own, said, as they walked homeward,
“And long may it wave!”


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES. 
				
	OXFORD Univerity celebrates its 1000th
anniversary this year.
	THE new Freshman class of Harvard
already number 191.
	THE Free Traders of England propose an
international conference.
	THE Boston Gas Co. has a well 1,100 feet
deep without striking water.
	MARYLAND cotton factories consume
30,000 bales of cotton per week.
	THE population of Paris is said to have
decreased 500,000 in the past six years.
	THE colored voters of the country are
said to number 900,000, and the politicians
are after them.	
	MORE people have been killed by light-
ning in England this summer than has ever
been known before.
	FALL RIVER, Mass., has now in opera-
tion thirty mills, containing 1,100,000
spindles, representing $25,000,000 capital,
and employing 15,000 operatives.
	THE year 1816 was the coldest ever
known in New England. There was no
summer, and ice formed in June, July and
August.	
	THE New Haven undertaker had recently
twenty-seven dead children to care for in
one day, the deaths being caused mainly
by cholera infantum.
	THE new Catholic cathedral at Boston is
approaching completion, and, when finished,
its tower will rival the State, House as a
prominent landmark for people approach-
ing Boston.
	THE new armory, or city prison of Chi-
cago, will cost about $40,000, and will be
80x100 feet in size, two stories high. The
lockup department will contain twenty-four
cells, each 7x12.
	A MAN in Jamaica, Vt., within the last
six years has had born to him by his first
wife a pair of twin daughters, she dying,
and by a second wife one pair of twin boys
and another pair of twin daughters—being
three pair of twins by two mothers.
	THE cost of living in the larger cities in
this country is yearly increasing, but this
is also true of the cities of the Old World.
One thousand dollars in London at the pres-
ent time will purchase no more than seven
hundred dollars ten years ago.
	IT HAS been proved by repeated experi-
ments that it is possible to rule lines with a
diamond point on glass so close together
that upwards of 60,000 of them are com-
prised in the space of one inch. The appar-
ent limit of vision in the best microscope
does not, however, reach beyond lines sep-
arated one eighty-thousandth of an inch.
	CAPT. Hervey’s experiment with Chinese
workmen in his laundry at Belleville, N. J.,
is so far successful that another troop has
been sent for, and a new building for their
accommodation is in process of construction.
All animosity between the Irish girls in the
laundry and the “haythens” appears to have
subsided, and they get along very amicably
together.
	NARROW-GAUGE railroads, according to a
paper recently read before the New York
society of engineers, have an advantage
over broad-gauge roads of 25.48 per cent, in
road bed and road construction. It was also
asserted that there is a saving of 5 per cent.
in the cost of stations, of 28 per cent. in
the cost of car shops, and 21.07 per cent. on
the cost of rolling stock. The average sav-
ing on all items, it was stated, would be
24.03 per cent.


﻿HINTS FOR YOUNG MOTHERS.

	The three requisites for babies are plenty
of sleep, plenty of food, plenty of flannel.
The saying that man is a bundle of habits
is true of babies as it is of grown children.
If an infant is accustomed from its birth to
sleep from six o’clock at night till daylight,
the habit of early sleep will be formed, and
the mother may have all of her evenings to
herself. If the baby sleeps all night, a long
morning nap will naturally come about din-
ner time, after which the child, except
when very young, should be kept awake till
six o’clock. Perseverance in this routine
will soon result in securing quiet evenings
for both child and parent. Some mothers
have a long season every morning and every
night in getting their babies asleep. They
rock them and sing to them till Morpheus
enfolds them. With most children this is
entirely unnecessary. An infant can be ac-
customed by a few days’ training to go to
sleep itself for a morning nap as well as for
the longer rest at night. A mother has du-
ties to herself as well as to her offspring.
While she should exercise a most constant
care in securing its utmost physical comfort,
she should secure restand recreation for her-
self. In no other way can she keep fresh
in feeling and buoyant in spirit. Nothing
is so wearing as the unceasing tending of a
fretful baby. Every means should be em-
ployed to aid the child in taking care of it-
self and giving as little trouble as possible.
It may learn in babyhood to amuse itself
with toys or by watching movements going
on around it. Fashion as well as good sense
requires infants’ dresses to be made with
long sleeves and high in the neck. Fashion
requires children of all ages to be warmly
clad. Flannel should incase the whole body,
with the exception of the head and the
hands. The fruitful cause of colic in in-
fants is the nakedness of their necks and
arms. Regularity in feeding is as import-
ant as either of the other requisites. Ba-
bies cry as often from being over-fed or fed
too frequently as from hunger. Let the
mother obey the dictates of common sense
in this matter, and not force food into a ba-
by’s stomach for every little complaint it
makes. Children of three and four years
old need much more sleep than they usu-
ally have. For irritable and nervous chil-
dren sleep is a specific, and it can be secured
to them only by force of habit. Many light
forms of disease may be cured by keeping
a child in a uniform temperature and in
quiet. Let the young mothers who read
this column experiment on these few sug-
gestions, and we are sure they will have
many an hour in the nursery for reading
and thought.—Ex.


MISS SMYTHE, the comic singer and bal-
let dancer of London, who still follows that
calling, is Viscountess Hinton, having mar-
ried the noble “Cosman” in 1869, who per-
formed as a pantomimist in several theatres
in 1869-71; and who has lately been discov-
ered to be none other than Viscount Hinton,
heir to Earl Poulett. The couple have a
son and heir, born to them in 1870. It is
difficult to tell who persons are after they
conceive a mania for the stage. In becom-
ing so many and such varied characters, is
it a wonder they should fail sometimes to
keep track of themselves?


A MAN named William George, 103 years
of age, living at Rochester, Ill., committed
suicide by hanging himself a few days
ago.


LIVINGSTONE'S DISCOVERER is now called
Stanley- Africanus.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


POLICY VERSUS LOVE.

	The Princess Marguerite, cousin-wife of
Prince Humbert, of Italy, does not believe
in Iove for persons of her condition. She
is said to have remarked, not sentimentally
but with the common sense air of a woman
of her century, “There is no such emotion
for us.” The match between her and her
cousin-consort was merely one of State poli-
cy, and although the Prince is not an agree-
able husband, but sullen, and very often
reproachful, and the Princess sometimes re-
sents his rude snubs, she yet seems to con-
sider that it is nothing out of place. She
endeavors to be a patient, kind wife to her
arrogant liege lord, and to further the public
interest even at the cost of her own health.
But the Prince is fond of his boy, becoming
placid and amiable at his presence, no mat-
ter how inconsiderate and sullen he has
been during the day. It is a fine thing for
women so situated to believe as does Mar-
guerite of Savoy.


THE DUTIES OF A MOTHER.—By the
quiet fireside of home, the true mother, in
the midst of her children, is sowing, as in
vases of earth, the seeds of plants that some-
times give to heaven the fragrance of their
blossoms, and whose fruit shall be as a
rosary of angelic deeds, through the ever
ascending and expanding souls of her chil-
dren, to her Maker. Every word that she
utters goes from heart to heart with a power
of which she little dreams. Philosophers
tell us, in their speculations, that we cannot
lift our finger without moving the distant
spheres. Solemn is the thought, but not
more solemn to the mother than the thought
that every word that falls from her lips,
every expression of her countenance, even
in the sheltered walk and retirement of
home, may leave an indelible impression on
young souls around her, and form, as it
were, an underlying strain of that education
which peoples heaven.


LADIES WHO READ THE EXPONENT:
	I will receive, in time for the Territorial Fair
and General Conference, one of the largest assort-
ments of Books, Stationary, etc., ever brought to the
Territory, including Ladies' books on Physiology,
the Training of Girs, Cookery books, Educational
works in great variety; Albums; all the late Maga-
zines, papers and periodicals; Stationery, Toys,
Presents, Sunday School rewards, etc., etc.
							JAMES DWYER.

Z. C. M. I.
	RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT
	We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
riety of our Patrons.
	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated
			SALT LAKE GLOVES.
	Children's Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty.
	While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics
  of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Comestics,
  Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-
  est possible figure.
				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup't.

LADIES !
	Go to Taylor & Cutler's for Dress Goods, No-
tions, etc. Also the Cheapest Store for Family Gro-
ceries in town. Call and see.

H. Wallace
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

DR. W. H. GROVES,
					DENTIST,
	Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
		Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

				JOHNSON'S
	
	HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES !

Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-
	ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.

	BONESET PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.
	EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.
	CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.
	ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills. Price 50 cents.

	These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at

	ZION'S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,

Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.

	If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them.
	
	Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.

	AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.

From the Laboratory of
						J. E. JOHNSON,
						  St. George, Utah.


			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

			A UTAH LADIES’ JOURNAL.
	
	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.

	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.

	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves?  "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others !"	

	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.

	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting arid valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.

	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.

	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.

	WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published, semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.	’

	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1 Copy one year, 	$2.00	1 Copy six months	$1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months,   9.00

	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

	Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


Woman's Exponent.
﻿VOL. I.  	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1872	NO. 9.


﻿NEWS AND VIEWS.

	GEORGE SAND, the celebrated French
authoress, advocates the organization of fe-
male free-masonry in France; and she is
really serious in the proposition.
	PENNSYLVANIA, INDIANA, Iowa and
Nebraska hold State elections on the 8th
inst., and that day is expected to decide the
election, in November, for President.
	A LADY refused to go onboard the steam-
er “Metis,” the night that ill-fated vessel
sailed, although her luggage was on board;
and now she thanks Providence for her es-
cape.
	THE LIBERAL Democratic ratification
meeting in New York, on the 12th ult.,
was attended by over forty thousand people.
The fact shows the interest taken in the
present campaign.
	PRUSSIA HAVING conquered France has
now commenced to wage war against Ro-
man Catholicism in Germany. This contest
is likely to be a longer one than the other,
and the result will not be so financially re-
munerative as was the war with France.
	DISCARDING THE side-saddle in riding on
horseback is gaining votaries among women
in different parts of the country, and is said
to be the fashion in Wisconsin. We are not
informed as to what is the change in the
style of dress which precedes this change
in the style of riding in that State,
	A NEWSVENDER in Berlin was fined
twenty thalers recently for selling a copy of
“Woodhull and Claflin’s Weekly.” The
Prussian authorities are not inclined to
countenance the discussion of free-love the-
ories in the style in which Mrs. Blood and
colonel Tennie C. have been accustomed to
create sensations in New York.
	THE SENSIBLE fathers are not all dead.
In Chicago recently a young lady, disregard-
ing the adventitious aids of money and posi-
tion in her lover, married her father’s
coachman. The father, instead of discard-
ing his child and condemning her to misery,
seeing that the young man “had something
in him,” quietly set him up in the livery
business, and the twain are happy.
	FIFTEEN MILLIONS and a half of dollars,
in gold, is the award made to the United
States by the Geneva board of arbitrators;
payable by Britain in Washington in one
year. The amount claimed at first, includ-
ing direct and indirect damages, was some-
where near two thousand millions. This is
considerable of a difference, and it is al-
leged the English have some claims yet to
present for adjudication.
	THE LONG roll of political conventions is
drawing to a close, but stump speaking is
being prosecuted with vigor. Bronchial
affections disappear before the power of
party and monetary inducement, and the
speakers ring out in excited tones denunci-
ations of their opponents and praises of
their party, to win votes from the multi-
tude, while in their hearts dispising and
disbelieving much that they say and sol-
emnly assert as the truth. This is manhood,
as politicians understand it! Could woman
degrade the “science” much? She certainly
might elevate and purify it.
	PERE HYACINTH has been buried. He
still lives, though—in the flesh; but his for-
mer Dominican brethren, after the custom
of their order, viewing his defection or
apostacy as a death, performed the funeral
service for him on the 5th ult. It was
rather singular that he should have married
a few days after, evidently the one event
treading upon the heels of the other.
	FROM THE promises and pledges being
made by prominent Republicans, should
President Grant be re-elected that party
will be placed under obligations to confer
the suffrage upon women. If they do so,
it will likely perpetuate the power of the
party over another Presidential election, at
least, for gratitude will secure them many
votes even from those who would not other-
wise affiliate with the party.
	WE KEEP noting the peculiar ways in
which "piety" develops itself. The latest
illustration is that of a young man in El-
dora, Iowa, who stole a horse some little
time ago, and sold the animal for two bibles
and ten dollars. Of course it was the good
book he was so anxious to obtain; and he
had probably seen some pious deacon rob
the "poor's box" of its Sunday collection,
and viewed the act as a worthy example to
be patterned after. Preaching dread of an
eternal fiery lake, instead of teaching cor-
rect principle, has a tendency to make men
infidels, dishonorable, and wicked.
	RECENTLY THE face has come to light
that the Chinese are ahead of either Eng-
lish or Americans in adulterating tea; and
it is questionable if the pure article at all
finds its way to this market. People talk
of a "cup of good tea!" But if they knew
the stuff with which it is adulterated, an-
other and very different adjective would
qualify the shrub so much in use as a bev-
erage. If people would buy their poisons
separate they could mix them to suit their
own tastes, and perhaps save some of the
money of which John Chinaman now robs
the "barbarians" who shorten their lives and
destroy their nervous systems by drinking
his adulterated tea.
	MRS. DUNIWAY, editor of the "New
North-West," Portland, Oregon, in an edi-
torial article in which she treats of Presi-
dent Grant having "reformed from a vicious
life," gets off the following: "Since the
above was written, General Grant has re-
formed from another bad habit of which he
last March was guilty, the pernicious one of
ignoring or snubbing the taxed, misrepre-
sented and protesting half of his people.
Therefore, we say all honor to him. And
upon the coarse, bigoted, narrow-minded
old dotard who cannot get the top of his
glistening pate above the filthy pool of sex-
ual politics, but who stands ready to remove
from places of emolument and trust the
hundreds of struggling women whom Gen-
eral Grant has given employment, that they
may thereby elevate themselves from the
necessity of bodily immolation upon the
altar of lust for bread, the women of Amer-
ica with one accord are crying 'anathema.'"
The language in which Greeley is here
referred to can hardly be called classical,
and the principal comment demanded by it
is, that it is at once coarse and untrue.
	MORE INDIAN delegations have been vis-
iting their "Great Father" at Washington,
making the usual demands for guns and
ammunition, provisions, and a suspension
of railway building. There is great reason
to believe that these aborigines, from con-
tact with dishonest and swindling agents,
have come to imagine that the United
States government is very rich and very
simple, allowing itself to be robbed in the
easiet manner imaginable, by the agents it
employs, and therefore fair game for the In-
dians to fleece, if the opportunity offers.
The entire Indian policy of the country
needs remodeling, by the employment of
honest men as agents and superintendents;
that is, if honest men can be found willing
to accept such offices.
	THE FIRST convention representing any
of the great political parties of the country,
to squarely and fairly take up the subject
of Woman's rights, was the Liberal Repub-
lican convention of Massachusetts, which
wound up its proceedings by explicitly de-
claring in favor of woman's right to vote,
right to fight, and right to do several other
things now denied to the sex. Charles
Sumner was the choice of the same conven-
tion for Governor of Massachusetts. The
right to vote can be exercised by all women
when they receive it; but Colonel Tennie
C. Claflin is at liberty to embody in her own
person all the right to fight which might
otherwise suffice for at least ten thousand.
The right claimed by Julia Ward Howe is
better—the right to aid in securing peace
to mankind.
	A SAD romance of real life, and accidental
death, by drowning, is related in the "Bel-
fast Morning News," as having occurred a
few weeks since, in the Thames,off Woolwich.
Eight persons had started in a lighterman's
skiff, for a run down the river, in buoyant
spirits. When near Belvidere, the river
became rough and the boat went down stern
foremost, throwing its occupants out, five
of whom were drowned, and three were
found clinging to the boat. The hero and
heroine, Mr. Whyman and Miss Hughes,
an estimable young couple, who, it appears,
were engaged to be married, were not dis-
covered until five days afterward, when
their bodies were found together. Thus,
we live to-day, but know not the hour of
death!
	WE CLIP the following from "Appleton's
Journal" for September 28: "The relatives of
the Prussian Lieutenant von Hafften, who
eloped with two young girls (sisters) from
Berlin, and who is now said to be with
them at Salt Lake city, have published a 
card, in which they assert that he is insane
on the subject of free-love, and that he has
been misled by the pernicious teachings of
a Mormon missionary named Hansen."
Now, as free-love is not taught, nor be-
lieved, in Salt Lake city, and as no von
Hafften has arrived here with or without
two sisters with whom he eloped; and as
no Mormon missionary has been teaching
or preaching in Berlin for some years, the
reliability of the foregoing extract will not
commend itself  to the reading public. In
fact it bears the appearance of a manufac-
tured canard.


66					WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE FEMALE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	A BRIEF SKETCH OF ITS ORGANIZATION AND WORK-
	INGS IN THE CITY OF NAUVOO, HANCOCK CO, ILLS.
			BY ELIZA. R. SNOW.
	[Reprinted from No. 1 of the EXPONENT]
	According to authentic testimony, an or-
ganization, of which the present Female
Relief Society is a fac-simile, has always ex-
isted when the Church of Jesus Christ has
been fully organized. “Elect lady,” as it
occurs in the New Testament, has direct
reference to the same—alluding to one who
presided over this Institution. See 2d
Epistle of John, 1st verse.
	The first organization of this Society, in
the present dispensation, was effected on
the 17th of March, 1842, by Joseph Smith,
President of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, assisted by other promi-
nent Elders. His apology for deferring the
organization till that period, was the great
pressure of duties, labors and responsibili-
ties, which devolved upon him. By his
suggestion a meeting was appointed in
the Masonic Hall, and a limited number in-
vited.
	Perhaps a few extracts from the “Minutes
of the Organization,” would be interesting,
—they are too lengthy for insertion in full:
			 "Nauvoo Lodge Room,
					March 17, 1842.
	Elder John Taylor was called to the chair,
and Elder Willard Richards appointed sec-
retary.
	Meeting commenced by singing ‘The
spirit of God like a fire is burning,’ etc.
Prayer by Elder Taylor.
	When it was moved by Pres. Smith, and
seconded by Mrs. Cleveland, that a vote be
taken to know if all are satisfied with each
female present, and are willing to acknowl-
edge them in full fellowship and admit
them to the privileges of the Institution
about to be formed. Vote unanimous.
	President Smith addressed the meeting
to illustrate the objects of the Society; that
the Society of sisters might provoke the
brethren to good works, in looking to the
wants of the poor, searching after objects
of charity, etc., to assist, by correcting the
morals and strengthening the virtues of the
female community, and save the Elders
the trouble of rebuking, etc. He proposed
that the sisters elect a presiding officer to
preside over them, and let that presiding
officer choose two counsellors; that he would
ordain them, and let them preside over the
Society, just as the Presidency preside over
the Church; and if they need his instruc-
tion—ask him—he will give it from time to
time.
	Let this Presidency serve as a Constitu-
tion. If any officers are wanted to carry
out the designs of the Institution, let them
be appointed and set apart, as Deacons,
Teachers, etc., are among us.
	The minutes of your meetings will be
precedents for you to act upon.
	He then suggested the propriety of elect-
ing a Presidency to continue in office dur-
ing good behavior, or so long as they shall
fill the office with dignity, etc.
	Motioned by Mrs. Whitney, and seconded
by Mrs. Packard, that Mrs. Emma Smith
be chosen President; passed unanimously.
	On suggestion of Prest. Smith, the Presi-
dentess Elect made choice of Mrs. Sarah
M. Cleveland and Mrs. Elizabeth Ann
Whitney for Counsellors.”
	After which the ceremony of ordination
was performed: “When Prest. Smith re-
[next column]
sumed his remarks, giving instruction how
to govern themselves in their meetings,
what  order to observe, how to regulate dis-
cussions, etc., etc., and concluded by saying,
'Do not injure the character of any one; if
members of the Society shall conduct im-
properly, deal with them, and keep all your
doings within your own bosoms, and hold
all characters sacred.’
	It was then proposed that Elder Taylor
vacate the chair. Prest. Emma Smith and
her counsellors took the chair; and
	Elder Taylor moved, seconded by Prest.
J. Smith, that we go into an investigation
respecting what this Society shall be called;
which was carried unanimously.”
	(The discussion which was lengthy and
interesting, is wholly omitted.)
	“By unanimous vote, Miss Eliza R. Snow
was appointed Secretary, and
	Miss Phebe M. Wheeler Assistant Secre-
tary, and
	Miss Elvira A. Coles, (the late Mrs.
Holmes) Treasurer.
	Prest. J. Smith said, ‘I now declare this
Society organized with President and Coun-
sellors, etc., according to Parliamentary
usages, and all who shall hereafter be ad-
mitted into this Society must be free from
censure, and received by vote.’
	Elder Taylor addressed the meeting by
saying that he is much gratified in seeing a
meeting of this kind in Nauvoo; his heart
rejoices when he sees the most distin-
guished characters stepping forth in a cause
which is calculated to bring into exercise
every virtue, and give scope to the benevo-
lent feelings of the female heart; he re-
joices to see this Institution organized ac-
cording to the law of Heaven; his prayer
is, that the blessings of God and the peace
of Heaven may rest down on this Institu-
tion, henceforth.
	After singing ‘Come let us rejoice,’ etc.,
the meeting adjourned for one week. Dis-
missed by prayer.”
	Before retiring, each gentleman present
gave a liberal donation to commence the
funds of the Institution.
	The following lines were found written
on a scrap and lying on an open Bible in the
room where, and at the time when, the So-
ciety was organized; which have been care-
fully preserved and transcribed as an appro-
priate frontis-piece to the F. R. S. Book of
Records:
	“O Lord, he[-]p our widows and fatherle[-] s chil-
dren! So mete it be Amen. With the SWORD
and the WORD of TRUTH, defend thou them.
So mete it be Amen"
	(to be continued.)


F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
St. George, Sept. 11, 1872.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:
I transmit to you a report of our organi-
zation, which was established August 24th,
1868, by President Erastus Snow, assisted
by Bishops Robert Gardner and Henry Ey-
ring, and Elders William Fawcett, William
H. Branch, Franklin B. Woolley and James
G. Bleak; and consisted of twenty-five
members, with Anna L. Ivins, as President;
Emily C. Branch and Hannah E. Crosby,
Counsellors; Augusta B. Jackson, Secretary;
and Caroline A. Jackson, Treasurer.
During the past four years the people
visited by the teachers of the Society have
contributed liberally to Its fund, and we
have always had means on hand to supply
every call for aid.
In response to the call of President Young
for help to gather the poor from foreign
lands, we collected and forwarded one hun-
[new column]
dred dollars; and are still receiving money
for the same purpose. Our disbursements
during the time since the Society was or-
ganized have been upwards of two hundred
dollars, and we have on hand six hundred
dollars in goods and capital stock in the
R. V. M. Company, and Co-operative store
of St. George. Our present roll counts one
hundred and fifty members; with Anna L.
Ivins as President; Hannah E. Crosby as
first, and Minerva Snow as second Counsel-
lor; Hannah G. Perkins, President of Teach-
ers; M. C. McArthur, Treasurer; and
			CAROLINE A. JACKSON,
						Secretary.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We send you a brief report of the fourth
annual meeting of the F. R. Society of
Santaquin, held Sept. 5th, when we were
favored with the presence of Sisters Simons
and Weach, Presidents of Payson and New-
town Societies, whose remarks were excel-
lent and very encouraging. There was ex-
hibited upon the occasion five handsome
quilts, one of which, it was said, contained
1,932 pieces. This speaks well for the pa-
tience, Industry and economy of the sisters.
Several of the sisters spoke disapprovingly
of “slang” talk, and a happy feeling per-
vaded the meeting; many of the infirm
were administered to at the close, by the
Elders. The Society is in a prosperous con-
dition; a good feeling prevails in our
midst; and all seem willing to aid the old,
infirm and destitute. Santaquin being a
small place, our financial report is also small.
Our income since May 31, 1868, up to May
31, 1872, was $505.35; disbursements to the
infirm and needy, $288;03; our shares in
the Provo Woolen Factory and shares in the
Co-operative store are included in the prop-
erty on hand. We like your paper much,
and wish it great success.
	MRS. E. J. STICKNEY, President;
	MRS. J. D. WILSON, Secretary;
	MRS. E. F. TRITGEN, Treasurer.

	The F. R. Society of Brinton’s Ward,
Big Cottonwood, held a meeting on the af-
ternoon of Wednesday, September 18th,
which was attended by Miss E. R. Snow
and others from Salt Lake city, who took
active part in the proceedings. The Presi-
dent, Mrs. Harriet Brinton, expressed
much satisfaction at the agreeable surprise
which sister Snow’s visit occasioned, as it
was unexpected; and she earnestly thanked
the Secretary, Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, for
inviting and bringing the sisters from the
city.
	During her remarks Miss Snow said that
"It is not required of women who are seek-
ing to live their religion, gain intelligence
and assist in establishing pure and correct
principles, to neglect their personal appear-
ance; but to endeavor to elevate and beau-
tify themselves in every way, and not
disfigure their forms and make themselves
appear ridiculous by following after the
vain, senseless fashions of the world.” She
asked what was more becoming and beauti-
fying to an intellectual and refined lady
than a plain, neat dress? The tawdery friv-
olities of fashion may do for those devoid
of taste and judgment, but they ill become
women of sound thought and reason. We
should seek to increase our fund of knowl-
edge and to polish the mind. There is
more sense and consistency in that than in
covering the body with finery, and seeking
by that means to appear polished and at-
tractive. We should study our own natures,
our own organizations, and learn to under-
stand the laws of life and health. We should


be energetic and ambitious in regard to
these things, and seek to promulgate the
importance which attaches to them. She
said she desired to see a greater interest
manifested by her sisters, in the physiolo-
gical classes that were being formed; and
considered it a matter of great importance
and one that should receive much attention
from the daughters of Zion. It would be
an inestimable help to mothers in rearing
their children to have an acquaintance with
the laws which combine and govern the
different parts of the human system.
	Much credit is due to the Society of sis-
ters of this precinct, for the unwavering
exertions they make in keeping up their
regular meetings; for as the ward is scat-
tered in a great degree, many of its inhab-
itants are situated at an inconvenient dis-
tance from the meeting house; some of
them having to walk three and four miles
for the purpose of attending meeting. They
also exhibit a lively interest in the welfare
of those who are in need of assistance, and
in the cause of truth generally.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	A conscientious woman cannot be quite
cheerful and at ease when she finds her du-
ties jarring, and much remaining undone
that ought to be done. It will throw a shade
of anxiety over her countenance, and a se-
cret depression will weigh upon her spirits,
which cannot be removed until her house-
hold matters, can be so arranged that the
duties which she feels belong to her as a
woman, in every department in life, can be
accomplished. When the mind is thus af-
fected, the face, which should be as the
sunlight, becomes clouded and careworn,
imparting by secret social sympathy, a gloom
to the whole circle of home. That the
causes may be as quickly removed as pos-
sible, great pains should be taken by hus-
bands to facilitate the performance of and
alleviate oppressive and still imperious du-
ties.
	A housekeeper will find it a great conve-
nience to have a trunk or deep drawer de-
voted to articles used in sewing and
repairing. Bags for keeping all such things
separate and in order are excellent helps,
one for new and another for old calico; one
for white and another for colored pieces;
one for stocking yarn in skeins and balls,
and one for carpet rags. A box with parti-
tions for all the implements of sewing, and
keeping each article in its own apartment,
saves much time and many steps.
	Another very important arrangement in
a family where there are children is to pro-
vide regular duties for each. One to bring
the wood, another to attend to the poultry,
cow, etc., changing round occasionally to
vary monotony; or, if girls, to dress and
undress a younger child, set the chairs in
order, and when old enough to wash and
wipe dishes. When these duties are shown
to children, it should be required of them
that they be performed in the proper
time and way, as much for the benefit of
the child as for the good it will do in help-
ing to preserve order in the domestic ar-
rangements.
	Much of the health of a family depends
upon the judgment of the mistress of the
house in varying food, and arranging the
dishes for different meals so as to be health-
ful and digestible. In some families it is fried
potatoes, meat, and hot cakes, or bread, in
the morning; soggy, boiled potatoes, and
meat at dinner; with a piece of dry, indi-
gestible pie, and bread and butter, cheese,
and “chipped” beef, with crackers, at night.
Now, nothing can be worse for women and
children, or persons of sedentary habits,
than a diet of this kind. It will do for la-
boring men, or those whose lives are spent
much in the open air, although even they
would be better for the regular introduction
into their diet of some elements which the
stomach is more capable of assimilating.
But for the children who go to school, and
women who stay at home, it is simply mur-
derous, and lays the foundation of the fu-
ture liver complaint and dyspepsia, which
have become the heritage of the American
people.
	Meat breakfasts are totally unnecessary
where dinner is taken in the middle of the
day, excepting for men employed in field or
outdoor labor. Boiled oat-meal, hominy,
or wheaten grits, with milk toast or bread
and-butter, are infinitely better. If fruit,
fresh or stewed, can be added, so much the
better. At dinner, the meat should be
fresh or exceedingly well cooked, the pota-
toes cooked dry and mealy, and some other
vegetable added, in which there is an acid,
or a good deal of juice. Grated horse-rad-
ish is invaluable in the spring, as an adjunct
to roast meat; tomatoes cooked without
thickening are an admirable regulator; beets
well cooked and sliced in vinegar are not
to be despised, and any kind of spring
greens, or salad, is a benefaction. It is a
pity that there is an odor so offensive to
some about onions, for, when young, they fill
a convenient niche before fresh fruit ap-
pears, are pungent, and occasionally very
palatable with bread and butter, and act
as one of the specifics in purifying the
blood.—Ex.


﻿FOR THE GIRLS.
			   —
	There is hardly any bodily blemish which
winning behavior and conversation will not
conceal, and, there is no external attraction
which ill nature and affectation will not de-
form. Much is indicated by voice and
manner; a subdued and gentle tone is ever
the accompaniment of refined feelings and
a cultivated mind. A loud, coarse laugh is
vulgar; but to laugh heartily when anything
is amusing, is not inconsistent with good
breeding, and may be done in a way that
accords with the nicest sense of propriety,
and is much more agreeable than a dull,
cold precision. Contempt and haughtiness
are never wise; arrogance and incivility
show anything but good breeding or gener-
ous sentiments. Giving pain to anyone
should be carefully avoided, and this may
be done by studying your own heart. Cour-
teous and affable behavior is the best to of-
fer, even to the rude and ungrateful. Flirt-
ing or coquetry, is beneath the dignity of
any true lady, and should never be indulged
in. If begun merely for pastime, in an in-
nocent, thoughtless way, it is almost sure
to be carried to excess, and is seldom
checked until feelings and words of a dis-
agreeable nature are the result; and not un-
frequently, where a conscientious and sym-
pathetic heart is concerned, but has not
been properly consulted from the first, un-
happy marriages are occasioned in conse-
quence of this unwise and ungenerous
practice. Though in some cases it is pru-
dent to conceal an opinion, when it costs no
sacrifice of principle, in all circumstances
adhere to the truth; make it a rule never
to give utterance to a falsehood. Contra-
diction and arguments are inadmissible in
social intercourse where friends meet for
pleasant enjoyment. Talk little of yourself
or your own interests, except when business
requires it. Converse of things rather than
persons in general. Always be punctual in
fulfilling engagements.


﻿TIRED MOTHERS.
			  ——
A elbow leans upon your knee,
	Your tired knee, that has so much to bear;
A child's dear eyes are looking lovingly
	From underneath a thatch of tangled hair,
Perhaps you do not heed the velvet touch
	Of warm, moist fingers, folding yours so tight;
You do not prize this blessing over much,
	You almost are too tired to pray to-night.

But it is blessedness! A year ago
	I did not see it as I do to-day.
We are so dull and thankless; and too slow
	To catch the sunshine til it slips away.
And lo! it seems surpassing strange to me,
	That while I wore the badge of motherhood,
I did not kiss more oft, and tenderly,
	The little child that brought me only good.

And if, some night when you sit down to rest,
	You miss this elbow from your tired knee;
This restless, curling head from off your breast,
	This lisping tongue that chatters constantly;
If from your own the dimpled hands have slipped,
	And ne'er will nestle in your palm again;
If the white feet into their grave have tripped,
	I could not blame you for your heart-ache then!

I wonder so that mothers ever fret,
	At little children clinging to their gown;
Or that the foot prints, when the days are wet,
	Are ever black enough to make them frown.
If I could find a little muddy boot,
	Or cap or jacket, on my chamber floor;
If I could kiss a rosy, restless foot,
	And hear its patter in my home once more;

If I could mend a broken cart to-day,
	To-morrow make a kite to reach the sky--
There is no woman in God's world could say
	She was more blissfully content than I.
But ah ! the dainty pillow next my own
	Is never rumpled by a shining head;
My singing birdling from its nest is flown :
	The little boy I used to kiss is dead !
				-- The "Aldine" for September.


THE DRESS OF CIVILIZED WOMEN.

	I do declare that I think it would be bet-
ter to die and get out of torment at once
than have to rise every morning for some
forty or fifty years and box one’s body up
in a sort of compressive armor, hang
weights to one’s hips and more weights
upon one’s head—which last are supported
by the roots of the hair; put one’s feet into 
shoes a number too small, and not of the
right shape, and with heels like stilts; and
then set about doing the whole duty of
woman with a cheerful face and a spry air, 
for from fifteen to seventeen mortal hours
out of the twenty-four! That there are so
many women who are not frightened into a
decline at such a prospect, and that they
bravely undertake to do it—nay, more, that
they even dream that under such disadvan-
tages they can work side by side with an
unshackled man, and that they die in try-
ing to do it, certainly says much for their
courage, but very little for their common
sense.
	A man’s dress to a great extent is fash-
ioned for comfort. He has contrivances for
suspending the weight of his clothing from
his shoulders. If the east wind blows he
can turn up his coat collar, button himself
up snugly, slouch his hat over his eyes,
thrust his hands into his pockets and brave
the weather. But imagine a woman re-
moving her hat or bonnet from the angle
at which fashion says she must wear it on
account of the weather, or turning any of
her “fixtures” up to protect her neck and
throat, or buttoning anything that was un-
buttoned before, or sticking her hands into
her pockets! She would be taken for an
improper character out on a mild spree, or
for an escaped inmate of a lunatic asylum,
should she endeavor by any Impromptu ar-
rangement of her habiliments to save her 
health.—“Science of Health.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
									Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, OCTOBER 1, 1872.


﻿SPLINTERS.
	The Khedive has twenty-three palaces...
Rome has 230 convents......Santa Barbara
wants a gold note bank......High heels are
going down and spines may go up again......
The Queen of the Belgians rejoices over
the birth of a daughter......The Sutro tun-
nel is in 3,050 feet......Ristori’s daughter,
M’lle. Crisi, is to be married some time in
October......Virginia city, Montana, is full
of prize ring experts......Council Bluff’s
Spiritualists are said to exclude red-haired
people from the circle......The English
Government is considering the project of
purchasing all the railroads in Ireland at
the price of $150,000,000......It is reported
that the Siamese twins are at last divided,
one being for Greeley and the other for
Grant......The San Juan mines are still the
excitement in Colorado.......The Massachu-
setts Republican State convention has given
unequivocal and complete endorsement to
Woman Suffrage.......New Albany and Jef-
fersonville political clubs marched for hours
through a drenching rain, while being
drilled a few evenings ago, without a man
flinching......A grand ball has been given
at the California State prison........The
“Christian Union” thinks the American girl
has an easy life, compared with her
brother’s......Grant papers try to prove that
the present President was not drunk at Shi-
loh; but a journal of a different nature says,
to save his military reputation, they ought
to prove that he was dead drunk the entire
week in which Shiloh was fought......Two
Greeley and Brown flags have been raised
in Shirley village, Massachusetts, the first
anti-Radical flags that ever floated there......
A swarm of bees, In Iowa, stung a horse to
death lately In half an hour........Report
says, Blaine was as poor as a church mouse
when he entered Congress, but is now a
millionaire......Princess Thyra, of Italy, is
said to be the most beautiful woman in Eu-
rope......A Nantucket octogenarian recently
spent an entire evening at the piano, play-
ing waltzes for her fantastic-toed grand-
children......Thirty-one million dollars are
invested in the wine culture of California....
A Branford, Connecticut, girl, who has been
clerk in the post office, recently confessed
the triple crime of robbing the mail, for-
gery and passing a forged check......In
Bethany, Pa., which has always given de-
cided Republican majorities, it is said, not
one vote will be cast for Grant......Five dol-
lar counterfeit gold pieces, bearing the San
Francisco mint mark of 1867, are reported
circulating in Pioche......California fruits in
great abundance, are for sale in all the east-
ern markets......Eleven prisoners are the
present occupants of the Washington
Territory penitentiary......Charlotte Cush-
man opens the Bay State course of lectures
at Boston on the 3rd inst....It is reported
that bands of Gypsies are traveling through
western Massachusetts, stealing children
and robbing orchards and cornfields......A
Coventry workman, in England, has been
sentenced to ten years penal servitude, for
starving his little daughter, four years old;
he has been allowing his family only three
shillins a week for food, while he spent
eighteen in drink........Olive Logan has writ-
ten a play called “A Business Woman,”
which will be presented during the coming
season......A Far Western lady who was not
posted in history, and had forgotten her
geography, asked a friend who was going
to Utah, to bring her a couple of Mormons
for her aquarium......A Connecticut girl
has renounced Christianity, and embraced
Judaism and a Jewish doctor to whom she
was immediately married......Jenny Lind
is reported ill......A Keokuk man took so
much stock in the comet business that he
forgave his enemies, paid his debts and pre-
pared to die......Report says, a daughter of
the late Confederate minister, John Slidell,
will shortly be married to a German Baron...
A curious disease prevails at Barton, Ver-
mont, called by the physicians there
“typhoid dysentery.”.......Charles Whee-
ler Denison, editor of the “Nation-
al Harbinger,” Washington, “regret-
fully, conscientiously and positively asserts
that the ‘Nation’s chief magistrate drinks
too much’”.....The Philadelphia “Press”
says Grant will be elected by a majority of
four electoral votes, (!) but the Chicago
“Times” admits that Greeley may be elect-
ed President......A grand dinner has been
given by the Savage Club, London, in honor
of Stanley......In an Iowa college, the Pro-
fessor of agricultural science is a woman,
Mrs. Tupper......An attempt to organize a
Greeley and Brown club at Hillsboro is re-
ported a failure, not one person putting in
an appearance.....St. Petersburg has a
prominent female lawyer, Madam Krietzoff
......The Navy Department is believed by
some to be the most corrupt branch in the
government......In Europe and the United
States there are 150 manufactories of India
rubber goods, employing five operatives
each, and consuming over ten million
pounds of gum every year......A young lady
who has been lecturing on “Thoughts and
their Chariots,” is requested to discourse
next on “Whims and their Wheelbarrows.”


﻿LADY LAWYERS.

	In the Third District Court of Utah, Chief
Justice J. B. McKean presiding, on Saturday
week, September 21, two ladies—Miss Phoebe
W. Couzins, of St. Louis, and Miss Georgie
Snow, daughter of Judge Z. Snow, Attorney
General of Utah Territory, applied for admis-
sion to the bar of Utah, were admitted, and
were duly sworn in as attorneys-at-law. While
we have no ambition, personally, to become a
practicing lawyer, nor to seek admission to the
bar even without the intention of practicing
the profession of law, we recognize in the appli- 
cation and admission of these ladies a prin-
ciple which is daily receiving wider recogni-
tion and which was, a few years ago, ridiculed
when advocated by enlarged minds that looked
beyond their time—the right of a woman to
earn her living in any honorable career for
which she has capacity. In the practical
working of this principle, as in everything
which aims at securing to woman the exercise
of her full and legitimate rights, Utah has
been markedly in advance of other parts of the
Union; and has been as far in advance of Eng-
land in this direction as England has been and
is in advance of Massachusetts, much as the
latter boasts of its philanthropic, humanitarian
and republican ideas. Among the first places
where women commenced to learn to be prac-
tical printers was here in Utah, and if the at-


tempt failed it was because those who com-
menced to learn the art believed they could
earn more with less labor at other kinds of
work. The propriety of women occupying
desks as book-keepers, and acting as clerks in
stores, so that the men thus employed might
devote their greater physical strength to
heavier labor which had to be done, was urged
years ago from the stand by President Brigham
Young and other leading men in  the commu-
nity. And to-day, on the thousand miles of
telegraph lines owned and worked in Utah, the
Deseret Telegraph Company employ more lady
operators than can be found on the same dis-
tance of wire in any other part of the world.
Ladies, too, at the present time are studying
medicine in this city, with a view to qualify 
themselves for its practice; and in every direc- 
tion in which woman’s talents or powers can 
be made available, there is every encourage- 
ment for their cultivation and development. 
All this is in Utah, and among the “down-
trodden women of Utah,” concerning whom
silly sentimentalists continue to theorize, and
waste unsought and undesired sympathy upon;
women who have every avenue open for them
to secure a living, and a competence if they
possess financial ability; and women who, if	
they become wives in families where plural
marriage exists, do so understandingly, and of
their own free will, and of their own free will
they could dissolve the bonds so accepted if
they felt disposed.
	It was telegraphed east and west that two
ladies had been admitted to the bar of Utah
as practicing lawyers, and the local press has
had considerable to say in regard to it; yet it
might with equal justness and more force have
been telegraphed that here in Utah, decried,
abused and maligned as it has been, women
enjoy more of what is contended for as woman’s
rights than they do in any State in the Federal
Union; and that they appreciate their position
and are seeking to qualify themselves for
spheres of usefulness to which their sisters in
other parts of the country can only yet look in
prospective.


﻿DON’T READ TRASH.
				——
	If there is any one thing extensively prac-
ticed that does not pay, it is the reading of silly,
trashy literature. It is a waste of time; and,
worse than that, it injures the memory, per-
verts the taste and hinders the advancement
and development of the intellectual powers of
the mind. Like vicious companions, worthless
reading steals an influence over young and un-
decided natures. For a time they realize no
evil effects from such sources, except that the
lightness and nonchalance which generally
characterize them are somewhat agreeable.
But they soon become fascinating and almost
irresistible; and engender dislike for anything
of a sounder and more reliable character.
Do not encourage the indulgence of such use-
less pastime. Get good books, and when you
read let it be for some good purpose; and al-
ways seek to become enlightened and not mis-
led by what you read.


WE ARE requested by Mr. Robert L. Camp-
bell, secretary of the Deseret Agricultural and
Manufacturing Society, to say, that where the
President of a Female Relief Society purchases
a life membership in the D. A. & M. Society,
in the name of the Relief Society over which
she presides, it will secure free admission to
the coming Fair for herself, her counselors, and
the treasurer and secretary of her Society. So
also when the head of a family has a life mem-
bership it secures free admission to his family
as well as himself.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.
				——
	THE APPROACHING general Conference
promises to be largely attended and more than
ordinarily interesting.
	A BOUNTIFUL harvest has been gathered
throughout the Territory, and the people
should feel proportionately thankful to a kind
Providence.
	THE OFFICE of the EXPONENT will, after the
5th inst., be found on West Temple street, op-
posite the City Market, upstairs in the build-
ing now being erected for the purpose.
	DURING THE past week lists of clubs of sub-
scribers have reached us from different parts of
the Territory, the money accompanying each.
Our friends who continue to work for the in-
creased circulation of the EXPONENT, have our
warmest thanks for their exertions in its be-
half.
	ON THE 3rd inst. the Territorial Fair com-
mences, and on the 6th inst. the Semi-Annual
Conference begins. These will draw a large
number of our friends to the city, any of whom
we shall be pleased to see at the office of the
EXPONENT, on West Temple street, opposite
the City Market.
	THE PHYSIOLOGICAL Class, organized some
weeks ago in the 15th Ward F. R. Society Hall,
meets now at the Social Hall, twice a week; at
four o’clock p.m., on Tuesdays and Thursdays.
Ladies interested In the study of physiology
will find it very advantageous, to connect
themselves with this class.
	ROBBERIES ARE on the increase in Salt Lake
city, with as much boldness as if the villains
were operating in the dead of winter. But
why need they be afraid? The third District
Court is in session, yet the presiding Judge, J.
B. McKean, has failed to grant the grand jury
which the Attorney General of the Territory
moved for, and rogues and criminals going un-
whipt of justice become bold In their villainies.
	IN THE present number of the EXPONENT
we reprint the first part of Miss Eliza R. Snow’s
brief history of the first organization of the
Female Relief Society in Nauvoo. The de-
mand for this sketch, after the first and second
numbers which contained it were exhausted,
has induced us to print a heavy edition of the
present number, with which to supply those
who desire it. Copies of the first eight num-
bers are not on sale at this office, but new sub-
scribers from this date can receive the EXPO-
NENT from the present number until the edition
now printed is all sent out, as we shall print an
equal quantity of copies of each subsequent
issue.


EDUCATE YOURSELF.
				——
	Woman was designed to be something
more than a domestic drudge; and it is not
right for her to confine herself exclusively,
to that monotonous calling, having no
thoughts, no interests, hopes or prospects
above and beyond so humble a sphere. For,
worthy and honorable as are all common
branches of labor, the hands should not alone
be industrious; but the brain should also be
instructed how to work, and allowed to ex-
pand and improve. And that not only in
things connected with the daily routine of
household duties, but in matters of greater,
and even less importance as well. Sensible
people say, that a girl should not be consid-
ered marriageable until she understands
how to make good bread and wash her own
clothes. Exactly. And we would add,
neither should she be imagined capable of
filling the position of a true wife and mother
unless she can, at least read and write un-
[new column]
derstandingly and converse intelligently
upon other topics than those concerning the
barn-yard and kitchen. And if, after mar-
riage, greater pains should be taken to in-
crease her fund of knowledge pertaining to
the proper care and management of a house
and family’s domestic interests, so also
should more attention and time be devoted
to her own moral and intellectual culture.
When a man has finished his labors for the
day, he usually has a little time for reading
or quiet contemplation and rest. It would
be justly thought absurd and cruel to require
of a child or servant, all the time to be
spent in work, with no chance for mental
improvement. But working women have,
somehow, so arranged, or disarranged, their
work that, generally speaking, it is never
done. And if they ever do sit down for a
moment’s rest, or take up a book or paper,
to use a familiar phrase, “there are a dozen
things staring at them, that want to be
done,” and they cannot enjoy the little
time which they feel as though they were
stealing. And thus a wall is often built,
confining woman to the narrow sphere of
domestic duties, in which she becomes self-
ishly wrapped up in her own interests, and
devoid of those tastes and sentiments
which might otherwise aid her in becoming
an agreeable and useful member of society.
Ill health or extreme poverty, may excuse
a woman for being kept much away from
society, and having little chance for mental
improvement. But even these disadvan-
tages would soon disappear, in most cases,
if a proper and wise reformation could be
called into requisition.
	It often occurs that as soon as a young
lady is married, she seems to think there is
no need for her to pursue her studies any
farther. She may have spent years of time
and cost her parents much expense, to ac-
quire an education, which, when it has as-
sisted in gaining her a husband, she has no
further use for. If that was her only motive
in pursuing her youthful studies, the object
was unworthy the labor and means expend-
ed. Rut woman should consider that for
her as well as for man, there is no end, no
stopping point to be found in the acquire-
ment of knowledge. And she should be
industrious and energetic in the pursuit of
useful information of every kind. It is an
excellent thing to know the easiest and
best methods to keep a house in perfect or-
der; how to prepare a meal of victuals
quickly and tastily; take the advantages of
a heavy washing and ironing, or spin your
own stocking yarn and knit it. But all this
does uot make a woman an interesting and
amiable companion, which it is her right
and duty to be, if her ways are awkward,
her language coarse and vulgar; in short,
her mind uncultivated. Yet, to be edu-
cated in these things will make her of
greater use to the world, than merely what
is now generally considered an accomplished
lady: that is, to have a knowledge of music,
be able to speak French or Latin, and dress
fashionably. Combine a consistent portion
of the two, and mix in a little of common
arithmetic and geography, morality, philo-
sophy and sense, and then go on securing
little gems of wisdom here and there,
wherever they are to be found. They will
never cease to exist, and the best educated
persons can do no better than to keep pick-
ing them up and adding to their store.
									G.


VERY large fires are reported to be again
raging in some of the Michigan woods, and
apprehensions are entertained in some quar-
ters of a repetition of the fearful scenes of
last fall.


FACTS AND FIGURES. 
Olympia has 312 school children.
The Memphis Industrial Exposition will
cost $30,000.
Slavery is to be gradually abolished in
Cuba and Porto Rico.
A petrified buffalo, full size, standing
and in the act of eating, has been found
near Spinneyville, Iowa.
California has sent by steamer her first-
cargo of wheat, wine and brandy directly to
England.
The largest water tank on the railroad
has just been completed at Albany; Its ca-
pacity is 75,000 gallons.
A Wayne county dog has this season
“chawed up” seventeen rattlesnakes. “Our”
dog beats that. It has killed five skunks in
as many weeks.
According to the State Geologist of Cali-
fornia, the view from the top of Mt. Diablo
is the finest in the world, not excepting any
of the Alps.
The Italian journals speak of a curious
discovery made at Pompeii—namely, a
glass bottle still full of oil. The liquid is
to be analyzed to ascertain its greater or less
degree of preservation.
Senator Trumbull stated in his speech
at Indianapolis, that there was “money
enough squandered by office-holders under
the Federal Government every year to buy
a house and farm and give $1,000 to every
man in the State of Indiana—and that there
are 400,000 men in that State.”
Italian papers report an increasing agi-
tation among the working classes in the
principal Italian towns. “The condition of
the working class,” says the “Persever-
anza,” “has in the last few years completely
altered. In the first place, the number of
workingmen has increased in an extraordi-
nary degree. The progress of industry, on
which we rightly congratulate ourselves,
has led to the establishment of centres of
labor which formerly had no existence.
Great masses are more easily agitated than
individuals, and it is evident that a strike
can be organized more effectually in a town
where there are a thousand workmen than
where there are a hundred. Wages have
not increased in the same proportion ns the
prices of the necessaries of life, besides
which the demand for labor is in this coun-
try greater than the supply.”
Professor Jurgeson, of Berlin, gives
an interesting account of the transfusion of
blood from persons in good health to one
who had been poisoned, with the most happy
results. He states that on the 9th of De-
cember, a young man was poisoned by tak-
ing a solution of the ignition mass of eight
bundles of matches. On the 11th of Febru-
ary, after causing the excitement of the
activity of the heart by champagne, the
transfusion of 580 cubic centimetres of
wholesome blood, which had just been taken
from three healthy persons, was effected
into the vein of the arm, 500 cubic centi-
metres being taken, of the patient’s own
blood, from an artery, at the same time-
Immediately an improvement in the condi-
tion of the patient took place, and in March
he was able to quit his bed. What a splen-
did thing it would be, were the doctors only
capable of ejecting all the diseased and cor-
rupt blood of individuals and transmitting
that which is healthy and pure; thus mak-
ing sound men and women of all the un-
sound ones. But the query is natural:
Where could they obtain sufficient pure
blood for the purpose?


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿PEN AND SCISSORS.
Spiritualism is on the increase at Nash-
ville.
	Stanley-Africanus, though not thirty,
is gray haired.
	A Rattlesnake bite was cured lately at
Fayette, Ill., by liberal applications of
mud!
	A Peoria dentist announces that he ex-
tracts teeth with great pains. Most dentists
do.
	Leisure is sweet to those who have
earned it, but burdensome to those who get
it for nothing.
	The Edgefield and Kentucky road will
hereafter be known as the Nashville, Chi-
cago and St. Louis railroad.
	Josh Billings says very truly, “You’d bet-
ter not know so much than to know so many
things that ain’t so.”
	A stylish bonnet can be obtained from
Paris for $126. Indulgent husbands will
cut this out to show their wives.
	A little boy in Buffalo bled to death
from the effects of a wound in the leg,
caused by a glass bottle which was thrown
at him by a playmate.
	The peace league of the Hague has ad-
dressed a communication to the Emperors
of Russia, Germany and Austria in favor of
peace in Europe.
	In Switzerland a milkmaid who is a good
singer gets more salary than others, be-
cause under the influence of music cows
“give down” better and give more milk.
	What a glorious world this would be if
all its inhabitants could say, with Shake-
speare’s shepherd: “Sir, l am a true laborer;
earn what I wear; owe no man hate; envy
no man’s happiness; glad of other men’s
good; content with my farm.”
	A fellow at Norwich was bitten by a
dog. As soon as he recovered from his
fright he declared he would kill the animal.
“But the dog isn’t mad,” said the owner.
“Mad!” shouted the victim, exasperatingly,
“what in thunder has he got to be mad
about?”
	The band of an American circus travel-
ing in France was stupid enough to go out
into the streets in the Prussian military uni-
form they had borrowed or stolen in Ger-
many. Although they played the Marseil-
laise, they were compelled to fold their tents
like the Arab and steal away in front of a
whole infuriated town.
	Orange is said to be the proper color for
spectacles, instead of green or blue, for per-
sons of weak eyes. At the Milwaukee Sol-
diers’ Home a room in the hospital is lighted
through orange colored windows, and is
used, with very satisfactory results, for pa-
tients who have certain diseases of the eyes
requiring the exclusion of the actinic rays 
of light.
	Somebody wrote to the editor of a vil-
lage paper to ask how he would “break an
ox?” The editor replied as follows: “If
only one ox, a good way would be to hoist
him, by means of a long chain attached to
his tail, to the top of a pole forty feet from
the ground. Then hoist him by a rope tied
to his horns to another pole. Then descend
on his back a five-ton pile-driver, and if
that don’t break him, let him start a coun-
try newspaper and trust people for sub-
scription. One of these two ways will do it
sure.”


THE MOORISH GIRLS.
	The young Moorish girl of Algeria, is one
of the prettiest and most fascinating crea-
tures in existence. Her features are oval,
her eyes are wonderfully expressive; but
she is as deceitful as the most artful Euro-
pean coquette. The gracefulness of her car-
riage is exceedingly striking. Her hair,
which is not unfrequently straight, though
sometimes curly, is as dark as the raven’s
plumage. It Is generally arranged in bands,
and is passed round the head and fastened
in a simple or double tail, which is tied
with ribbons, and almost sweeps the ground.
The “coiffure” Is covered with a velvet
“chachia,” which is fastened under the
chin with two pieces of ribbon.
	The Moorish maiden has very small hands
and tiny feet. Her stature is about the
middle height, and her carriage graceful.
Her costume is generally very elegant. The
plainest toilette consists of a gauze chemise,
with short sleeves and a “serroual” (pair of
drawers), made of white calico or muslin,
very wide, and reaching down to the knee.
It not unfrequently happens that the Moor-
ish maiden wears, in addition to the above
toilette, the “djabadoli,” a kind of richly
embroidered vest, which seldom or never
reaches above the shoulders, and which
tends to contract the chest.
	At other times she wears the “rlila,” a
kind of jacket made of silk, and richly em-
broidered in gold. She wears over her
hips, not a crinoline, but a large piece of
striped silk called “fouta,” which reaches
down to the ground; and over that a silken
sash, the gold-embroidered ends of which
hang down in front. When the “rlila” is
worn, the “coiffure” is changed; and the
“chachia” is replaced by a silk handkerchief
of bright colors, or else by the “sarma,”
which is nothing else than the “hemine,”
which the French women wore in the four-
teenth century. The “sarma,” which is
made of gold or silver thread, is generally
a masterpiece of embroidery. We must
not omit to mention the “babouches,” which
are made of green velvet, and which almost
cripple the feet as much as the slippers
worn by the Chinese ladies.
	The Moorish women never move abroad
without being closely veiled. They en-
velop themselves so in a white “kaik” in
Algiers, and in a blue one at Constantine,
that it is utterly impossible to catch a
glimpse of any other part of their features
than their eyes.
	Such is the physical portrait of a Moorish
woman. Her moral one has nothing very
attractive in it, which arises from the want
of education. If of poor parents, she is
beaten frequently, and sadly cuffed about
by her parents. Her only wish is to escape
from their tyranny.
	If her parents are rich, even then she is a
stranger to domestic comforts. She is gen-
erally secluded in a corner of the house, and
left entirely to the care of a negress; and
as she grows up her sole aim and delight
is to become one of the most arrant co-
quettes, and to plunge into all kinds of in-
trigue. A woman, according to the ideas
of all Mussulmans, is nothing more nor less
than a mere toy—a plaything, a piece of
funiture, which every man ought to posses,
but who has no right to think or to act.
Hence the cause of her profound ignorance
and semi-barborous state; and yet the Moor-
ish women possess wonderful talent for
learning. There is a French institution at
Algiers to which young Moorish girls are
admitted.
	Those children who belong to the poorer
class, and who are sent there by their pa-
rents for the sake of the small sum that is
given to all who attend, and because they
get rid of them during the day, are remark-
ably intelligent and quick at learning. The
Moorish girl is not named until eight days
after her birth; but until that ceremony
takes place she is always called “Fatima,”
as the mother of the Prophet. Their prin-
cipal names are Alcha, Bedra, Djohar, Fati-
ma, Halima, Haouria, Khredoubja, Khreira,
Meriem, Mimi, Mina, Mouni, Orgoya, Rosa,
Safia, Sbida, Zeina, Zohra. Not a few of
these names have very flattering significa-
tions; for instance, “Zeina” signifies pretty,
and “Sbida” orange flower. 
	The Moorish maiden marries when very
young; but scarcely any change takes place
in her social position after she quits her
paternal roof to abide under that of her hus-
band. If she moves in good Arab society,
she passes most of her time at the baths
(the gossiping shops of the East and of Al-
geria) and at her toilette; the rest in eating
all kinds of sweetmeats, disputing with her
husband’s other wives, or making appoint-
ments with her friends to visit the mosques,
where she goes to offer up prayers to the
holy marabouts that she may be the mother
of many sons. Thus does she pass her days
in trifles light as air until a certain period,
which, alas! comes but too soon—that is,
when her youth and beauty vanish like a
dream—and then she foils into a lethargy
from which the hand of death alone relieves
her.
	Should she belong to the poorer class,
then her condition is much more to be la-
mented. She is trained up from youth to
perform the most laborious work, and for
which, like the donkey, “she receives more
kicks than presents.” Her husband beats
her and her children, and her condition is
neither more nor less than that of a domes-
tic animal.


An Old-Fasioned  Mother.—Thank
Fortune, some of us have an old-fashioned
mother—not a woman of the period, en-
amelled and painted, with her great chig-
non, her curls and bottines, whose white,
jewelled hands have never felt the clasp of
baby fingers, but a dear,old-fashioned, sweet-
voiced mother, with eyes in whose depths
the love-light shown, and brown hair
threaded with silver, lying smoothly upon
her faded cheek. Those dear hands, worn
with toil, which guided our tottering steps
in childhood and smoothed our pillow in
sickness. Blessed is the memory of an old-
fashioned mother! It floats to us now like 
the beautiful perfume of some woodland
blossom. The music of other voices may be
lost, but the entrancing memory of her
voice will echo in our souls forever. Other
faces will fade away and be forgotten, but
her's will shine on until the light from
heaven’s portals shall glorify our own.
	When in the fitful phases of busy life our
feet wander back to the old homestead, and,
crossing the well-worn threshold, stand
once more in the low, quiet room, so hal-
lowed by her presence, how the feeling of
childish innocence and dependence comes 
over us! How many times, when the
tempter lures us on, has the memory of
those sacred hours, that mother’s word, her
advice and counsel, saved us from plunging
into the deep abyss of sin! Years have
filled great drifts between her and us, but
they have not hidden from our sight the 
glory of her pure, unselfish love.


A chief of the Chippewas drives a dray
in Detroit.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿ LINES.
		[Written for the EXPONENT.]
Awake, my muse, so long thou’st slumbered,
	All thy laurel wreaths will fade;
Days have passed away unnumbered
	Since I last invoked thy aid.

I would have thee, while awaking,
	With bright laurel twine my brow,
For ambition’s morn is breaking
	Brightly o'er my pathway now.

Highest thoughts, bright aspirations,
	Oft my beating bosom swell;
Shall I banish such reflections !
	Shall I bid such thoughts farewell !

No, but rather let me cherish
	Thoughts so bright, so pure, and deep;
Every idle dream shall perish,
	Every lighter care shall sleep.

Life’s bread pathway lies before me—
	Shall I travel without aim ?
Guardian spirits hover o’er me !
	Help me strive to gain a name !

Hope, bright star, shall onward guide me
	Through night’s deepest, darkest gloom;
Shed its radiance o’er my pathway, 
	Light my passage to the tomb.
  Provo.								M. J. T.


﻿BE KIND TO THE OLD.
Be kind to the old, back in the spring of life,
They may have been o’ertaken by the storms of
	strife,
And amid summer’s sweet buds, fruit and flowers,
They may have seen but few of pleasant, happy
	hours.

Be kind, then to the old, for in the scenes gone by.
Dark, foggy clouds have dimmed the once clear
	eye,
When sorrow’s trying flood did nigh o’erflow,
The hopeful promise of long, long ago.

Be kind to the old, for autumn cool has come;
The Reaper soon will gather the ripe harvest home;
Life’s winter neareth—Ah! how cold and drear!
With no warm, loving smiles the aged heart to
	cheer.

Be kind unto the old as you would blessing seek—
God loves the loving, the filial and the meek;
Parents will cherish, children praises sing.
And an approving conscience choicest blessings
	bring.
San Bernardino.						MINNIE.


THINGS WORTH FORGETTING.
	How much wiser we should be if we could
remember all the things worth remember-
ing that occur day by day all around us; and
how much better we should be if we could
forget all that is worth forgetting! It is
almost frightful, and altogether humili-
ating, to think how much there is in the
common on-going of domestic and social life
which deserves nothing but to be instantly
and for ever forgotten. Yet it is equally amaz-
ing how large a class seem to have no other
business but to repeat and perpetuate these
very things. That is the vocation of gos-
sips—an order of society that perpetuates
more mischief than all the combined plagues
of Egypt put together. Blessed is that man
or woman who can let drop all the burs and
thistles, instead of picking them up and
fastening them on to the passenger. Would
we only let the vexing and malicious say-
ings die, how fast the lacerated and scandal-
ridden world would get healed and tran-
quillized! Forget the gossipings and
bickerings and backbitings, and remember
only the little gleams of sunshine and po-
etry that can illuminate the humblest life
if we will only drive away and forget the
clouds engendered by things that should
never be remembered.


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.
	A little girl of eight or ten summers
being asked what dust was, replied that it
was “mud with the juice squeezed out.”
	The public should remember that the rate
of postage upon transient newspapers to
any port in the United States is now only
one cent.
	Wise anger is like fire from the flint;
there is a great ado to bring it out; and
when it does come it is out again imme-
diately.—“Matthew Henry.”
	A slight answer to an intricate and use-
less question is a fit cover to such a dish—a
cabbage-leaf is good enough to cover a dish
of mushrooms.—“Jeremy Taylor.”
	Papa.—“Bless me! what a glare! Where’s
your window-curtains, Maria?”
	Mamma.—“Now, don’t be angry, George!
You refused the girls their Dolly Vardens,
and as I would not let them cut up your
dressing-gown, the poor things were forced
to take the curtains.”
	The Republican women of Massachu-
setts have pronounced on the political situa-
tion, at a meeting held in Boston on the
25th ult., and in an address to the women
of the United States. They congratulate
the women of the country on the progress
which the Woman’s rights movement has
made; and look upon Charles Sumner as a
political apostate. Alas, for Sumner, he
has fallen from grace, of the kind Massa-
chusetts appreciates.
	Expectations.—It is reported as a re-
cent occurrence, that a poor man fell in love
with an heiress, and the passion being re-
turned it only needed the consent of the
parents to make them happy. At length,
meeting the father, he asked for the daugh-
ter’s hand.
	“How much money can you command?”
asked the millionaire, gruffly.
	“Not much,” was the reply.
	“What are your expectations?”
	“Well, to tell the truth, I ‘expect,’ if you
refuse your consent, to run away with your
daughter and marry her without it.”
	The Future of Timber.—That the
timber interest of the United States is be-
coming a very important one is not a mat-
ter of surprise, when it is known that
seventy-five million dollars’ worth of fuel
is burned every year in the United States.
Locomotives consume over eight million
cords of wood annually, and over a hundred
million dollars’ worth of sawed lumber is
yearly employed in building and in manu-
factures. Four million acres of forest dis-
appear every year before the axe, to supply
all these demands. No wonder that timber
planting is occupying so much attention in
the west. It is said that California has cre-
ated an officer for the State, of Superintend-
ent of Forest Culture, at a salary of fifteen
thousand dollars a year. This is not prob-
ably wholly accurate, but it shows the di-
rection of public thought. Wood is being
continually put to new uses; one of these,
wooden pavements, will take an immense
quantity in all large cities. there is some
opposition at present to their general intro-
duction on account of the early decay—
about ten years being the limit to this kind
of causeway. But it has been found after
all cheaper than stone blocks lasting fifty
years, because the injury to horses is less,
the wagon tear is less, and the time saved
in going over them enormous. This saving
of time will alone pay for the whole cost of
the road. It is very probable, therefore,
that the consumption of timber will go on
much faster in the future than in the past,
as its uses are steadily increasing.


BUSINESS.
	Many of the business men in the differ-
ent parts of the country, seem to consider
that if they do not murder a man for his
money, nor actually steal it from him, their
dealings must be honest and honorable. No
difference how great the advantage they
take of the necessitous circumstances in
which another is placed, or of his mistakes
or ignorance; it is the “Almighty dollar”
that they are after, and with them it is no
matter how it comes, so they get to clutch
it. But they would not like to be thought
dishonest. Oh, no; they are “our honor-
able business men!”
	And some women seem to think that it is
none of their business where the “money
comes from,” if they can only get to handle
a good share of it. They never question
their husbands as to the prospects ahead,
debentures or anything of the kind; such
affairs are no business of theirs, and they
do not trouble themselves about other peo-
ple’s concerns.
	The business of every just and upright
man, should be in all his dealings with his
fellow men, to see that they, as well as
himself, are benefitted and blessed. And
no true woman will allow her selfish propen-
sities to so far overpower her consciousness
of right, as to require means for her per-
sonal gratification which could be more
wisely spent, or which have not been ob-
tained in a legitimate way.
	It is everybody’s business to do as much
good and as little harm in the world as pos-
sible, and no one has a right to do anything
contrary to this rule.					L.


﻿RIGHTS AND WRONGS.
				—
	The cogency with which “rights” and
“wrongs” have long been bandied about, by
different parties and denominations, and
the impromptu manner in which these sub-
jects are being handled now, show a spirit
of unjust and relentless constraint on the
part of those in power, while to those who
clamor for privileges with which they are
not, but should be, invested, in many in-
stances, it gives an air of unwarrantable de-
fiance.
	How these things will terminate remains
with the near future to which we are fast
approaching. But one of two things must
inevitably occur: Either the two bodies
will collide, or a grand union of interests
must take place. Why not the latter?
Why should not hirelings receive just com-
pensation for their labors, and where their
exertions serve to enrich their masters, why
should not they likewise be rewarded by a
generous share in the profit made? Why
should not woman stand side by side with
man, and feel that her interests are his, and
that apart from the general welfare and
happiness of the human race, her aspirations
and anticipations are nothing? True woman
has no desire to step ahead of man, or to be
considered superior to him. Her present
aim is but to walk with dignity, keeping
pace with the real whole-souled man, and
not being thrust back to grovel in ignorance
and vice with the lawless and unprincipled
libertines, who in the forms of men infest
the country to an alarming extent. Men
who are just and wise, do not seek to pre-
vent woman’s coming up even with them;
nor will they refuse her their protection
against the persecutions of villainous ma-
rauders, who would rob her of justice and
peace, who seek to keep her out of her true
position by the side of man, which she will
ultimately hold—not by force but by mutual
agreement.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿WHY WOMEN ARE EXTRAVAGANT. 
			   —
Somebody once said that the women of
to-day are so extravagant in dress, and so
helpless in other respects, that none, but
rich men can afford to marry, and foolish
people have been saying the same thing, or
something very like it, ever since. Every
time a man fails in business, people take a
mental inventory of his wife’s wardrobe and
cry out, “Poor fellow! he was ruined by her
extravagance!”
No account is taken of his club expenses,
or his unnecessary restaurant bills, or his
fast horses, or the vanity which prompted
him to buy a bigger or a finer house than
he needed. Nothing is said of his dress
coats made by some Monsieur Snip, who
charges extra price because he calls himself
an “artist tailor.” The man may have
gambled his money away, or have lost in
reckless stock speculation, for all anybody
knows to the contrary, while his wife, be-
lieving him to be rich, has dressed and
lived only as his circumstances warranted,
doing it, too, only for his sake, that he
might not be ashamed to introduce her as
his wife. Or, if she had been as extrava-
gant as he, the fault is usually his so long as
the fact remains that any proper man can
lovingly control the course of any proper
wife. Women are often extravagant. The
fact cannot be denied. But that they are
more so than men is by no means true. As
a rule, every woman wishes to live within
her husband’s income, and in nine families
out of ton all the economizing is done by
the wife. This constant iteration of the
charge against women, however, has se-
cured a kind of passive acceptance for the
theory, and nothing is more common now
than for the young men with salaries of two
or three thousand a year to lament their in-
ability to marry, because women are so ex-
travagant. One of these has recently told
the public through the newspapers how it
takes all his salary of two thousand dollars
to support a single man, and looking over
his bills of items and finding that it takes
fifty dollars worth of perfumery every year
to keep him sweet, we quite agree with
him that he should not marry.—“Hearth
and Home.”


LADIES WHO READ THE EXPONENT:
	I will receive, in time for the Territorial Fair
and General Conference, one of the largest assort-
ments of Books, Stationary, etc., ever brought to the
Territory, including Ladies' books on Physiology,
the Training of Girls, Cookery books, Educational
works in great variety; Albums; all the late Maga-
zines; papers and periodicals; Stationery, Toys,
Presents, Sunday School rewards, etc., etc.
						JAMES DWYER.

Z. C. M. I.
	RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT
	We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
riety of our Patrons.
	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated
		SALT LAKE GLOVES.
	Children's Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty.
	While we carry a fine stock of the elegant farics
of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,
Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-
est possible figure.
				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup't[new column]LADIES 	!	Go to Taylor & Cutler’s for Dress Goods, No-
tions, etc. Also the Cheapest Store for Family Gro-
ceries in town. Call and see.		

H. WALLACE
  	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city.  Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

DR. W. H. GROVES,
					DENTIST,
	Office Second South Street, Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
	Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.

	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.
 
			JOHNSON'S
	
	HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES

Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-
	ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.

	BONESET PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to face emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.

	EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.

	CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.

	ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills. Price 50 cents.

	These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at

	   ZION’S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,

Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.

	If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them.

	Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.

	AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.

From the Laboratory of
							J. E. JOHNSON,
							St, George, Utah.


			WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			A UTAH LADIES JOURNAL.

	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.

	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply

	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves ? "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!"

	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.

	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.

	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.

	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.

	WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.

	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:	
1 Copy one year, $2.00 	1 Copy,six months, $1.00 
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months, 9.00
	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents 
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

	Address all communications and subscriptions, 
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City, 
Utah.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. I. 	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1872.	NO. 10.


﻿		EDITORIAL NOTES.

	TURKISH LADIES are discarding thick
veils. The world moves!
	BRAVE WOMEN of the period—Those who
dare to dress comfortably.
	 NOVEMBER 5TH is the day on which the
Presidential election will be held.
	FALLEN GREATNESS—The “Cardiff Giant"
bought to be set up by an Indiana farmer as
a gatepost.
	DACOTAH HAS had an earthquake.  Are
they traveling east from California without
giving Utah a call? They can be spared
here.
	MRS. FAIR was acquitted on her second
trial in San Francisco, and the result called
forth an abundance of wrathy newspaper
criticisms.
	NO RACE nor clime can claim lengthened
years as a special heritage. A woman of color
died in Philadelphia a few days ago aged
a hundred and five years.
	GEORGE FRANCIS TRAIN has again gone
to Europe, but will return this month. He
has still inscribed on his banner “N. P. A.”
—Next President of America — Next?
When?
	PRUSSIA MAINTAINS Protestantism by re-
fusing to permit Mormon Elders to preach
in its dominions, and by expelling Jesuits.
Prussian Protestantism must be weak-kneed
and delicate to be so afraid of contact.
	CINCINNATI HAD an inaugural attempt at
a war of races, on the night of the 7th inst.,
when an Irish procession and a colored mob
came into collision. A general war of races
would be more terrible than a war of sec-
tions, of countries, or even of kindreds.
	THE MICHIGAN University has received
nineteen young ladies in the “freshman”
class, and Michigan University is honored
in so doing. The silly prejudices against
according woman the educational rights en-
joyed by men are disappearing
	PENNSYLVANIA, OHIO and Nebraska held
elections on the 8th inst., and gave majori-
ties for the Republican candidates. Indiana,
on the same day, gave a majority for the
Democratic candidate. The result is not
favorable to Mr. Greeley’s election in No-
vember
	WORD COMES from the Pacific Coast that
a woman suffrage bill has been introduced
into the Oregon legislature. Oregon may be
just enough to have the bill passed and be-
come law,and teach Massachsetts that justice,
truth and light are to come from the
west to the east, reversing the old order of
things.
	A BEQUEST of $350,000 has been made by
Miss Sophia Smith, of Massachusetts, to en-
dow a new college for women at Northamp-
ton in that State, where young women may
have means and models of instruction equal
to those now enjoyed by young men. Telling
the simple fact is ample eulogy on Miss
Smith, all honor to her!
	SCOTT'S LINES commencing “Love rules
the camp, the court the grove” might be
altered in this mercenary age to “Mammon”
exercising the ruling power. It is now said
Pere Hyacinth made $75,000 by his mar-
riage. Of course money was no induce-
ment, but it was convenient to find it a
portion of the matrimonial bargain.
	PRINCE NAPOLEON endeavored to take
up his residence in Paris last week, his
wife, the Princess Clothilde, accompanying
him. But the government of Thiers per-
emptorily ordered them to leave,
and the princely pair had to travel.
The name of Napoleon is not as popular in
France as it was before the surrender at
Sedan.
	WASHINGTON D. C., had the strange
sight a few days ago of six persons being ar-
raigned in one of its courts, charged with
murder; Washington is moral, and temper-
ate, and virtuous, and free from crime; and
that is the reason probably why it becomes
so potently stirred up against Utah occasion-
ally. Were these six alleged murderers an
accident?
	MORE TROUBLE in Spain. This time it is
a revolt of the troops at the town of Ferrol,
a strongly fortified sea-port with some 17,-
000 inhabitants, and some of the citizens
have joined the insurrectionists. King
Amadeus is verifying the proverb:	“Un-
easy lies the head that wears a crown;” and
the prospects of a peaceful reign over the
revolution-loving Spaniards are not very
bright for him.
	WHEN THE FALL and Winter fashions be-
come fairly matured they promise to pre-
sent as much hideousness as any late ones
have manifested; and people will admire
themselves imitating a style of hair-dressing
that has been fashionable in central Africa
for generations; while clothing will be
modeled for every purpose but the comfort
and convenience of the wearer.
	A PROPOSITION to license and “ticket”
the inmates of houses of ill-repute in New
York is being discussed, and the “Star” of
that city sensibly calls for the same rules be-
ing applied to the male visitors at the
places. It adds: “This theory that the men
have ‘rights’ which women are not to share
in that direction, is not only unchristian but
indecent.” A sentiment with which every
right-minded person will agree.
	A HOUSE fell in Louisville, Kentucky,
the other day, killing a family inside, and
warrants were promptly issued against the
architect, the builder, and the foreman en-
gaged in the erection of it, charging them
with the murder of the persons killed. If
men were more generally held responsible
for the fatal results of their carelessness or
wilful neglect to take necessary precautions
where human life is involved, there would
be fewer accidents by railroads, on steam-
ships, by explosions, and other ways by
which life is recklessly slaughtered. It is
time this much-needed reformation was be-
gun, and the action of the Louisville City
courts is a healthy sign.
	THE ANNIVERSARY of the birth day of
Father Matthews, the once famous Irish
temperance preacher, was widely celebrated
by the temperance men of the United States,
on Thursday last, the 10th inst. One good
thing Father Matthews did for Ireland. Be-
fore he traveled through the country stir-
ring up her children to enthusiasm by his
fervid eloquence, and administering the
pledge of total abstinence to thousands, It
was not considered a disgrace to be intoxi-
cated, only so far as it showed a limited ca-
pacity to drink fiery whisky. But since his
day, wide-spread as intemperance still is, it
is viewed as disgraceful and degrading to
be seen drunk. When some reformer can
accomplish as much for these United States,
he will be worthy of a statue of California
gold, on a pedestal of Nevada and Utah
silver, and gemmed with Alaska and Arizo-
na diamonds.
	“FATHERLESS, MOTHERLESS, no friends,
no home!” were words contained in a letter
which helped to show the cause of a suicide,
lately committed in London by an unfortu-
nate girl about twenty years of age, who
preferred death by her own agency, rather
than to live and follow the paths of vice.
She asked forgiveness of all who might
hear of her, for the crime she was about to
commit. It is easier to forgive such as her,
than the enlightened Christian age whose
follies drive them to deeds of desperation.
While President Brigham Young sets an ex-
ample before the people of the Church of
Jesus Christ, and the whole world, by feed-
ing, clothing, sheltering and schooling a
great many young people who would other-
wise be homeless and friendless; giving
them places with his own children, becom-
ing indeed a father to the fatherless; the
world derides him and his ways, of which
it understands nothing, and would gladly
do with its benefactor to-day, as the Jews
with its Redeemer less than nineteen centu-
ries ago. Yet innocence, driven to desper-
ation, rushes headlong into eternity, and
the Christian age hardly gives a glance to
the miserable unfortunate, but hurries on
preparing others for the same horrid future.
	THE "MISSOURI REPUBLICAN,” under
the heading “The Oppressed women of
Utah,” has the following sensible remarks,
which are presented for general considera-
tion to pusedo philanthropists, silly senti-
mentalists, and anti-Mormon lecturers:
“We have heard a good deal about the op-
pressed and degraded women of Utah, and
the unclean and tyrannical vassalage which
the Mormon social system imposes upon the
female sex. This string has been tuned
and played upon until it appears to have
snapped. It seems now that the women are
almost every body in Utah. They have
more power and more rights than they have
anywhere else on this green earth, and the
boasted lord of creation is entirely a second-
ary personage in the land of saints. This
may look like a strange condition for Utah,
of all the world, but it is true. That Terri-
tory and its social system seems to have
been the lock and key by which women
have at last entered into the wider, nobler
sphere for which they have prayed and
worked. An incident which calls up the
privileges which the women of Utah enjoy,
lately occurred in Salt Lake City. Miss
Phoebe Couzens, of St. Louis, and Miss
Georgie Snow, daughter of the Attorney-
General of the Territory, were admitted to
the bar in the District Court, and the cere-
monies were imposing. The brace of pretty
girls besieged the august Court of Chief
Justice McKean, and the Court capitulated.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿MORTALITY.

Ye dainty mosses, lichens gray,
	Pressed each to each in tender fold,
And peacefully thus, day by day,
	Returning to your mould.

Brown leaves, that with aerial grace
	Slip from your branch like birds a-wing,
Each leaving in the appointed place
	Its buds of future spring.

If we, God’s conscious creatures knew
	But half your faith in our decay,		
We should not tremble as we do
	When summoned clay by clay.

But with an equal patience sweet
	We should put off this mortal gear,
In whatsoe’er new form is meet
	Content to re-appear;—

Knowing each germ of life He gives
	Must have in Him its source and rise,
Being that of His being lives,
	May change but never dies.

Ye dead leaves, dropping soft and low,
	Ye mosses green and lichens fair,
Go to your graves, as I will go,
	For God is also there.
						MRS. MULOCK CRAIK.


﻿THE FEMALE RELIEF SOCIETY.

A BRIEF SKETCH OF ITS ORGANIZATION AND WORK-
	INGS IN THE CITY OF NAUVOO,HANCOCK CO., ILLS.

			BY ELIZA. R. SNOW.

	[Reprinted from No. 2 of the EXPONENT.]

			(CONCLUDED.)
	When organized, the Society consisted of
nineteen members, exclusive of its officers.
This number augmented from time to time,
until at the close of the fiscal year it
amounted to 1,158. The meetings were so
large that the largest hall in the city was
densely crowded and it became necessary to
adjourn to the Grove, the usual place in
the Summer for holding Sabbath meetings,
which was provided with a suitable stand
and a supply of seats for large assemblies.
	The Society soon became so popular that
even those of doubtful character in several
instances applied for admissiou, and to pre-
vent imposition by extending membership
to such ones inadvertently, stricter rules
were adopted than seemed requsite at first.
Each one wishing to join the Society was re-
quired to present a certificate of her good
moral character, signed by two or more re-
sponsible persons.
	The meetings were opened and closed
by singing and prayer, and systematic order
was observed throughout. In each meeting
reports were given by those whose duty it
was to visit from house to house and inquire
into the circumstances of the sick and desti-
tute—donations were received and those
subjects discussed which appertain to wo-
man’s duties, influence, responsibilities,
etc., etc.—whatever has a tendency to bene-
fit and elevate society at home and abroad.
	Frequently President Joseph Smith, Bish-
op N. K. Whitney and brethren of the
Twelve met with the sisters, and through
the inspiration of the Spirit of God, imparted
rich counsel and intelligence; instructing,
not only in duties concerning the poor, but
also in all the relations of life, as wives, mo-
thers, daughters, sisters, and, as saints of
the Most High, our duties to one another
and our responsibilities as examples to the
world, etc.
	The first Winter after the Society was or-
ganized, was exceedingly cold and severe.
Many, in consequence of exposure and hard-
ship in their expulsion from the State of
Missouri, and the unhealthiness of the cli-
mate of Nauvoo, had been reduced by sick-
ness to destitution, and had it not been for
[new column]
the timely aid of the F. R. Society would
have suffered very much, and probably some
would have perished.
	About the last of July, 1842, when some
of the officials of Missouri were taking meas-
ures to drag President Joseph Smith from
Illinois by an illegal process, the F. R. Soci-
ety sent a petition to Thomas Carlin, Gov-
ernor of Illinois, in behalf of Pres. Smith,
claiming his protection as chief magistrate.
The petiton was signed by every member of
the Society, and presented by its President,
Mrs. Emma Smith, accompanied by Mrs.
Amanda Smith and Miss E. R. Snow. The
Governor’s residence was in Quincy, fifty
miles south from Nauvoo.
	The following is transcribed from my
journal, written after my return: “The
Governor received us with as much cordi-
ality and politeness as His Excellency was
master of, assuring us of his protection by
saying that the laws and Constitution of our
country should be his polar star in case of any
difficulty. He manifested much friendship,
and it remains for time and circumstances
to prove the sincerity of his professions.”
	We subsequently ascertained that at the
very time that the ladies of Nauvoo were
visiting him, presenting the petition and
listening to his protestations of friendship
and love for legal right and justice, his em-
issaries were engaged in secret plotting in
his behalf, against the rights and safety of
President Smith, and aiding the unprinci-
pled bloodhounds of Missouri. But what-
ever the result, the F. R. Society had made
a noble effort, and it was compensated by
knowing that the great, good man, Joseph
Smith, appreciated it.
	The city of Nauvoo was divided into four
wards, and after the Society became too nu-
merous to convene in one assembly, it was
decided to meet alternately in the different
wards from week to week so as to give equal
opportunities to all.
	Pres. Joseph Smith donated a city lot to
the Society for the purpose of making homes
for the homeless, and also to furnish work
to those who were able to work and were
out of employment, which he proposed
deeding to the Treasurer and her successors
in office, for the use of the Society. He
also donated the frame of a house, and made
arrangements for it to be moved on the
aforesaid lot, for a commencement of the es-
tablishment, But this benevolent and judi-
cious project, with many others which were
designed for the amelioration of the condi-
tion of suffering humanity, was blasted in
the bud by the blighting hand of religious
persecution, and through which the once
beautiful city of Nauvoo became a desola-
tion, and its inhabitants exiled to Mexico.
	God, who makes the wrath of man praise
Him, has overruled, as He ever does in all
things, for the good of them who put their
trust in Him. In having been driven from
a city, we have become a Territory—should
have been a State—and here, the Female
Relief Society, more amply developed than
in Nauvoo, has extended its branches to
every ward, and settlement from Bear Lake
in the North to Santa Clara in the South,
and yet, as seen in prospective, it has but
little more than emerged from its embryo
state in comparison to its great future.


﻿F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
				—
	Miss Eliza R. Snow, President of the Fe-
male Relief Societies, accompanied by Mrs.
Elizabeth Howard and the editor of the
EXPONENT, paid a visit recently to Payson,
Utah County, and held a meeting of the
F. R. Society of that city, attended by many
of the adjacent settlements, in the
[new column]
Payson New Tabernacle on September 26th,
at 2 o’clock, p.m.
	Bishop J. S. Tanner and other Elders, pres-
ent by invitation, occupied seats in the
stand.
	The meeting was called to order by Mrs.
B. Jane Simons, President of the Payson
Society, and was opened by singing and
prayer; after which President Miss E. R.
Snow addressed the assembly.
	She said the name, “Female Relief So-
ciety” was suggested and established by
vote when the first organization took place.
The question had been agitated for some
time, whether the name would not be
rendered more appropriate by the omission
of the word “Female,” and the calling of
these associations merely “Relief Societies.”
She thought that this modification would
improve the application; and others with
whom she had communicated on the subject
held the same opinion. But as the name
was established by vote, it must also be
changed by an expression from a majority
of those interested, if at all, because every
thing we do should be done legally. She
then called for an expression of the feelings
of those present and all voted for the modi-
fication of the name. The speaker contin-
ued, “The sisters of Payson hold a very
warm place in my heart; they have proved
themselves ready to make sacrifices of their
own feelings for the general good. Those
who are the most noble, cultivated and re-
fined, are ever the first to sacrifice their
feelings for the good of others. Woman fills
an important sphere; her duties are most
significant; and for this reason she should be
educated. It is admitted that woman forms
the character of society; that she gives char-
acter to her children, and that the most
minute parts of their education depend up-
on her. It is quite as necessary that we
study the superstructure of the human body,
as many other things upon which much
time is spent. We are calling on those sis-
ters who are sufficiently ambitious and per-
severing, to come forward and aid in organ-
izing and supporting classes for the purpose
of gaining knowledge pertaining to the laws
of life and health. We want a union of faith
and prayers upon this subject from the sister-
hoods throughout the Territory; and do not
expect to accomplish much without the co-
operation and assistance of the brethren,
but this we shall have. Our girls should be
educated in order that they may become
wise, good mothers, and plant the seeds pf
true, rich intelligence in the future genera-
tion. Many of the young men of our com-
munities would be less intemperate find un-
stable, had their mothers better understood
the laws which govern human nature.”
	The meeting was also addressed by Mrs.
Elizabeth Howard, Miss L. L. Greene,
Elders Isaiah Coombs, John Loveless, Robt.
Wimmer, Gustave Simons, Orrawell Sim-
ons, President Mrs. B. J. Simons—who
suggested that another meeting be held in
the evening which was voted for unani-
mously—Counsellor Mrs. Agnes Douglas
and Bishop J. S. Tanner, who also dismissed
the meeting by prayer.
	At 7 o’clock, a general invitation to all
who were desirous of attending having been
extended, a very respectable congregation
of gentlemen and ladies gathered and
listened to short but interesting and edify-
ing remarks, from Elders George Rust,
D. Lant and Miss E. R. Snow. A welcome to
Sister Snow was also read.
	In her remarks, Miss Snow said to the
sisters, “Our aims have been too low; we
must improve them. We have been in the
habit of thinking we could do so little.”
She recommended the organization of a


Young Ladies’ Society, and, if she might be
permitted, would recommend the brethren
to organize Young Gentlemen’s Societies
also.
	The kind hospitality with which Miss
Snow and her companions were received
and entertained during their visit to Pay-
son, by all, and particularly by Mrs Agnes
Douglas and family, deserves honorable
mention. They were called upon by a
number of the sisters, among whom
were Counsellor Mrs. Moore and Mrs. Mary
A. Hardy, Secretary of the Payson Relief
Society.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	MOTHERS in general, remarks Miss S., do
not realize how early the education of their
children commences. Children are born
with intelligence undeveloped; and as it is
manifested at times in the expressions and
actions of the tiny infant, it understands
more, and has really more knowledge of
what we say to it, than people gener-
ally give it credit for. That child upon its
mother’s lap—a baby six or eight months
old—knows from her kisses and caresses
that she loves it; that when it jumps and
coos she is pleased with its brightness and
good nature; and if it ever cries and is dis-
tressed, it realized from the soothing, pity-
ing tone and the tender expression of its
mother’s face, that she sympathizes and suf-
fers with it. It knows, too, if she is truth-
ful and honest with it. Its education is al-
ready begun. Mothers, if you would have
your children love and speak the truth,
never let them hear you speak the least un-
truth. If you would have them virtuous,
charitable and generous, cultivate the same
qualities in yourselves. And if you want
them to be reflective and studious, prayer-
ful and diligent in doing good, let them
see you the same in your every day course;
and even before the little ones make their
appearance upon the grand stage of life, let
these principles be implanted in their or-
ganizations. We cannot plant thistle seeds
and expect fig trees to grow from them. If
you desire your offspring to be healthy
and live long, take care that you do not en-
gender in their physical natures the seeds
of disease and premature decay. First learn
wisdom yourselves, and then you will be
potent to impart the same to future genera-
tions. In giving instructions of any kind,
or corrections, light or heavy, it is a thing
worth remembering, that “All wise govern-
ment begins with self-government.”
	BATHING.—The first thing to be done
when a bath is to be given is to prepare the
room, making it of a comfortable tempera-
ture. The second is to prepare the bath,
using soft water, and making it of the right
temperature, as indicated by a thermome-
ter. Persons sometimes ask us to explain
what is meant by certain temperatures, so
that they can get along without a thermome-
ter. This is impossible. The terms, hot,
cold, warm, tepid, are so indefinite and con-
vey such different impressions to different
persons, as to be entirely unreliable in giv-
ing directions. If a person in fever is to be
packed, his conditions are much more readi-
ly controlled by wetting two sheets in
water at 90°, wringing them but slightly,
and packing him in them, or even puting
him into a fresh pack when the one becomes
heated, than by putting him into a cold
sheet, The idea that the hotter a person is
the colder should be his bath, is productive
of great mischief. The rule is exactly the
reverse of this; that is: a person in a high
fever should have his bath at a higher tem-
perature than if he had no fever; for what,
[new column]
in the latter case, would be a pleasant tem-
perature to him, would be shockingly cold
in the former.
	BLEEDING AT THE LUNGS.—Put cold
cloths on the head, a hot brick or hot bath
for the feet, and on the throat and chest ap-
play cloths wrung out of warm water. Keep
the patient quiet.
	IN all diseases we cannot too strongly urge
the necessity of good nursing. Absolute
cleanliness of person, clothing, room and air
must be had at all times. Quietness, hope-
fulness and cheerfulness are of more value
to the sick than gold, silver and diamonds.
—Ex.


﻿THE SEX.
				      —
	MRS. D. P. Bowers, Philadelphia’s favor-
ite comedienne, has bought a country seat
near Manchester, Mass.
	MRS. Partington does not believe in shak-
ing hands across the bloody sarcasm. Most of
the women agree with her.
	ADELINA Patti has been invited by Mme.
Thiers to give a beneft in Paris to the suf-
ferers by the war, and will do it.
	MRS. Tator, the first woman lawyer on
the Pacific Coast, has been refused admis.
sion to the bar of Santa Cruz, California.
	ROSA Bonheur is said to have expressed
recently a desire to visit the United States,
and, if possible, to do so within the next
twelve months.
	MISS Austine Sneed, “Mrs. Grundy,” of
the “World,” has been engaged to “do”
Washington next winter for a London week-
ly, writing at odd intervals whenever there’s
need.
	THE Princess Salm-Salm having backed
out of the gayeties of this life Into the aus-
terities of a convent, the Queen of Prussia
has sent her a thousand-dollar testament.
	TURKISH ladies are asserting their right
—to be seen. High-born Osman damsels
now dress in Parisian style, wearing veils
of the thinest possible gauze, which soften
without concealing the features.
	COUNTESS Beauchamp has decided talent
as a sculptress. At the Royal Academy her
ladyship is an exhibitor of the figure of her
youngest child. It is said to be excellent
both as a likeness and work of art.
	MADAME de Stael said: “If I were mis-
tress of twenty languages, I would think in
the deep German, converse in the gay
French, write in copious English, deliver
in noble Greek, and make love in the soft
Italian.
	IN Dover, New Hampshire, this Summer,
four young ladies, Adelaide, Jenny, Emma
and Alta Hanson, with the assistance of one
man, their brother, made and gathered sixty
tons of hay. One of them, Miss Emma, her-
self mowed the whole of it, with a two-horse
machine. This promising young farmer is
but seventeen years of age.
	MISS Emily Faithful, who will shortly ar-
rive here to discuss the woman question, is
a lady of wealth and high social position,
and an intimate friend of Queen Victoria.
She devotes her life and money to the ele-
vation of her sex in remunerative employ-
ments.
	IT is well for the girls to know the risk
they run in marrying brakemen. An en-
thusiastic member of the guild In St. Louis
the other night was awakened from a dream
of an Impending mishap by a cry of pain,
and found himself sitting up in bed holding
his wife by the ears, having almost twisted
her head off.


﻿ON THOUGHT BEING EDUCATION.

	A remark made by one of the Sisters,
while speaking in the 14th Ward at a late
meeting, struck me very forcibly as being
true. She said good thoughts showed good
education. This is something that we should
consider more than we do, for upon it de-
pends our happiness more than we are aware.
Thought is truly “the spring of human con-
duct;” and how careful we should be to not
allow an evil or impure thought to have
place in our breast.
	How often we find ourselves giving way
to thoughts that we would be ashamed to
have our most intimate friend know; and
then, to think, that the Lord can discern our
most secret thoughts, should be enough to
cause us to check anything that tends to
evil. Let us consider that we are being
educated by our every thought. When we
feel in the least unhappy or unpleasant, we
may know that our thoughts are not run-
ning in the right direction, and we should
banish them in a moment, and cultivate.
those that will bring peace and happiness,
all the day long. When we can control our
thoughts as we should, we will be near per-
fection. It should be our constant prayer to
the Lord to give us power to govern our
thoughts, for when we can do this we will
have gained a great victory, and will be
tolerably thoroughly educated.
							M. A. F.


﻿THE BENEFIT OF WOMAN TO MAN.
			    —
	Did it ever occur to any of our readers
what a refining and polishing influence the
society of woman gives to man? The asso-
ciation with intelligent and educated women
is ever observable in the man. The com-
mon coarseness of many; the bashful awk-
wardness of others; the general tendency of
man to satisfy his passions—are all toned
down and obliterated, when they are con-
tinually brought into the society of women. 
The gentle, kind and insinuating way a
good woman’s influence is thrown about the
rude and reckless man, is always observa-
ble. She seems to reach into his heart with
fingers that very soon weed out every un-
couth and unseemly plant. She does this,
apparently, without an effort; she gives to a
man grace, fluency in conversation, gentle-
ness of manner, complete ease in society and
a love of the arts, sciences and beauties of
nature; she throws about his experience an
atmosphere of love, confidence, hope, trust,
honor, fidelity and virtue! The rough ob-
structions to be met with upon the exterior
of his character are very soon cut away and
the scars healed up from sight. The pro-
cess of change from a vicious, lonly life, to
one of female association and refinement, is
often slow and tedious; but the metamorphic
change is sure to take place under the love, 
judgment and guidance of a true woman. If
there is anything in man that may be called
“metal,” the beneficial influence of woman’s
association will burnish it to such a bright-
ness that its kind and quality can soon be
determined.
	Some coarse and brutish men scoff at the
beneficial influence of woman, but most all
sooner or later are led to feel its power. The
man who can never feel this reclaiming,
purifying power, and has no faith in woman’s
ennobling, elevating influence, is possessed
of a heart poor indeed. We do not wish his
society—we know our business relations
with him cannot be pleasant and compan-
ionable. The low, vicious habits of life are
his, as he has no incentive to be otherwise,
or even wish to elevate his character.—
“Willamette Farmer.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

		LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1 Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month; $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt	Lake City, Utah.

	SALT LAKE CITY, OCTOBER 15, 1872.


﻿SPLINTERS.
	The Pope has appointed the reverend Mr.
Vaughan Bishop of Salford,England......The
rinderpest has appeared in the country
around Mons, Belgium.......The desperado
Saunders, alias “Red Bill,” was recently
shot at Osceola, Missouri, by the city Mar-
shal......Dr. J. Brinton Smith, Principal of
the St. Augustine colored school of Raleigh,
North Carolina, is dead......Iowa supports
thirteen camp meetings at once......Feldspar,
hitherto imported from Spain, has been dis-
covered in Connecticut......Georgia will not
tax cotton or woolen mills erected there for
two years......The Pope was considerably
indisposed at Rome the other day......San
Antonio, Texas, offeres $500,000 to expedite
the railway communication with Austin......
It is rumored in France that Gambetta will be
a candidate for the Vice-Presidency of the
Republic......E. R. Hoar has been nominated
for Congress in the Seventh District of Mas-
sachusetts......The total value of all known
diamonds, exclusive of Arizona and Alaska,
is $1,000,000,000......Governor Scott, of
South Carolinn, has commenced suit against
the New York “Tribune” for libel......San
Francisco had an earthquake on the 1st inst.
......Late reports from Japan say the party
of progress are losing ground......The death
penalty has been abolished in Peru, and
fifteen years imprisonment is to be the
maximum of all punishment in that Repub-
lic......The best portrait of Bismarck is said
to be engraved as a frontispiece to his life,
published two years ago by Harper & Bro’s.
......Sumner demands peace and reconcilia-
tion on all sides......Queen Victoria has pre-
sented Nellie Grant with her portrait set in
precious stones......In some of the towns in
New England, apples are so plentiful that
farmers are offering cider at $1.50 per barrel.
......A New Orleans lady, the champion
swimer at Mississippi City, swam 1,600 feet
without stopping, a few days since, and.
thinks she could have made 2,000 by a little
more exertion.......Bierstadt is in Inyo
County, California, taking, sketches in the
Sierras for future paintings......English is
the vernacular of seventy millions of people.
......During the year past, the tax collector
of San Francisco has paid into the treasury
over $2,800,000......Miss Grace Anna Lewis,
of Pennsylvania, has achieved a large suc-
cess in the department of ornithology, and
has given public lectures on birds.......The
United States has 65,000 miles of complete
railroads......A swimmer at the steamboat
wharf in Fall River, recently, dispersed a
whole prayer meeting to rescue him, by pre-
tending that he was drowning..........Blue
overcoats and gilt buttons, like our grand-
fathers wore, will be the style for the com-
ing winter....... A Paris gymnast, known as
Sampson Iron Jaw, whose specialty was pick-
ing up weights with his teeth and throwing
them over his head, raised a barrel with his
teeth and in attempting to dispose of it, fell
dead with a broken spine......The Iowa girls
turn out in torchlight processions and fill
the air with shrieks for their favorite candi-
dates......An Indiana woman, lately di-
vorced, writes a letter of advice to the girls
in which she says, “I would not marry
young, and when I was married would live
at least fifty miles from my husband’s rela-
tives”.....Apple trees are blooming for the
second time in the neighborhood of Gilroy.
......The railroad companies own one-fifth of
Kansas......A late heavy storm did much
damage to the shipping on the great lakes,
and many lives were lost......Athens, Geor-
gia, has a paper called the “Cat” with the
motto “I can scratch”......Mobile has sus-
pended her dog law for want of dogs......A
[new column]
Detroit ferry-boat draws custom with a brass
band......A Virginia letter-carrier speaks
eight languages besides the profane......A
considerate man in Illinois paid all his debts
before committing suicide......Trouble is
threatening between Chili and Bolivia, and
somebody may get killed.......A Michigan
lad kicked a can of nitro-glycerine. He did
not need a coffin, but will require an artifi-
cial leg......A London law-suit, a hundred
and forty-seven years old, has just termina-
ted......South Carolina holds an election to-
morrow.......“Inflatable rubber bustles” are
announced, and they are said to impart
great bouyancy to the movements. Some
ladies could do with less buoyancy......St.
Louis has invented moonlight funerals......
Omaha has grown to 20,000 inhabitants
from none in eighteen years.......Seventy
students can be admitted to the Russian
special courses, of medicine and surgery for
women. Three hundred have applied......A
ten foot alligator is boarding at the St.
Louis dog pound......More news and less
politics will characterize the newspapers in
another month......A western paper calls
Laura D. Fair “the pretty bully in bomba-
zine.”


NOTICE.
			    ——
	As the word “Female” is useless in "Female
Relief Society,” we wish to drop it, which can
legally be done with the concurrence of a
majority of ladies composing the various branch-
es of the Society throughout the Territory.
It must be done by vote. We therefore request
all of the Presidents to take an action on the
subject, at their first meeting, and report the
result to the Editor of WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
							ELIZA R. SNOW.
    SALT LAKE CITY, Oct., 8th, 1872.


﻿OUR JOURNAL.
	With the present number of the Exponent
five months of its existence as a journal will
have passed, and it is time that we asked those
clubs that subscribed for six months to renew
their subscriptions. We would request them to
take this matter into consideration now, that
by the time the thirteenth number goes to
press we may know how many copies to print.
Although the circulation of the Exponent has
increased rapidly since it was started, the paper
is not yet paying expenses. To do so will re-
quire a still larger circulation, for the desire is
not to make of it an advertising sheet, which
would pay, but a journal of value to its readers
and one worthy to be preserved. We hope with
increasing patronage to make it more valua-
ble than it is, and a means of acomplishing
good that can be pointed to with pleasure by
everyone interested in its success.
	But to do this the brains of two or three per-
sons are not enough. There are numbers of
ladies throughout the Territory who could


write and yet do not, and could clothe in point-
ed, touching words,ideas that would be of great
value to their sisters everywhere who read the
Exponent. There is more original matter
published in this journal than some of its
readers imagine. The first page of every num-
ber is editorial though it does not so appear;
and many contributed articles are published
with nothing but an initial letter to indicate
who is the author.  Still, it is desirable that
more original matter should appear. We would
also request of ladies to overcome the diffidence
which many of them have to their names be-
ing published, and let them appear attached to
their articles. It will not only show that the
contributions are original, but it will also show
that you entertain honest opinions which you
care not how openly you express.
	If the sisters throughout the Territory, and
especially those who occupy positions as officers
of the Relief Societies, will aid us by their
influence, by forwarding contributed articles,
short and suitable for these columns, and by
increasing our subscription list, we will en-
deavor to labor with all diligence and faithful-
ness to meet their desires in making such a
journal as will best represent the women of
Utah, their wants and wishes.


﻿AT THE FAIR.
	The Relief Societies, from different parts,
manifested their interest in the progress of
home science, by contributing handsomely to
the many attractions, useful and ornamental,
exibited at the Territorial Fair, considering
the time allowed them after being notified that
they were solicited and expected to take part in
it. The Societies of the Third, Seventh,
Eighth, Ninth, Twelfth, Fourteenth and
Twentieth Wards of this city were represented;
also those of Ogden, Bountiful, and Lehi.
Articles belonging to individual members of
other Societies were presented, but so far as we
have been able to ascertain, the above named
were the only Societies specified. Premiums
were awarded to those Societies as follows:
	For the best collection of articles, useful and
ornamental, 14th Ward Relief Society, silver
medal; 2nd best, 9th Ward Relief Society,
$2 00; third best, 12th Ward, $1 00.
	Ornamental needle work, 9th Ward R. S.,
$2 00.
	Ottoman cover, 2nd best, 7th Ward R. S.,
$1 00.
	Netted collar, 9th Ward R. S., $2 00.
	Worked collar, Lehi R. S., $2 00.
	Crochet work, 2nd best, 12th Ward R. S.,
$1 00. 	
	Patchwork quilt, 2nd best, 14th Ward R. S.,
$1 00. 
	Album quilt, 20th Ward R. S., $2 00.
	Knitted work, Bountiful R. S., $2 00.
	Knitted spread, 12 Ward R. S. $2 00; 2nd
best, 3rd Ward R. S., $2 00.
	Straw hat, 14th Ward, R. S., $2 00; 2nd best,
20th Ward R. S., $1 00.
	Straw bonnet, Lehi R. S., $2 00; 2nd best,
Bountiful R. S., $I 00.
	Silk embroidery, 9th Ward R. S., $2 00.
	Best spread of home raised cotton, Lehi R.
S. $2 00.
	Feather plumes, (white and colored) Lehi R.
S.,	$2 00.
	Worsted embroidered slippers, 7th Ward R.
S., $2 00.		’
	Braided watch case, 2nd best, 12th Ward R.
S.,	$I 00.
	Best rag carpet, Ogden R. S., $2 00.
	Several of the articles which drew prizes were
got up in very little time, and had the invita-
tion to the Societies been issued a month earlier


the exhibition of articles contributed by them
would have been much better.
	Taken altogether the Fair was quite success-
ful, which must be a cause of gratification to
the Board of Directors of the D. A. & M. Soci-
ety; and the ladies have reason to feel satisfied
with their share in its attractiveness. In the
department devoted to art were some very
beautiful specimens of ladies’ work in wax,
which drew prizes and were greatly admired by
all who saw them; and the specimens of differ-
ent kinds of work exhibited by individual
ladies, as well as by the Relief Societies,showed
highly cultivated taste and excellence of work-
manship in a very superior degree.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿CONFERENCE.
	The Forty-Second Semi-Annual Conference
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, which commenced on Sunday morning,
October 6th, the usual time for the beginning
of the Fall Conference, was a period of true re-
joicing to the honest Saints who had the privi-
lege of being present and hearing the instruc-
tions given from the stand. The same peaceful,
charitable and intelligent spirit which ever
characterizes these Conferences prevailed at
the late one, and the counsel and admonitions
offered for the consideration of the people should
be long and well remembered. And not only
kept in rememberance, but put into daily prac-
tice by all who have the testimony of the Holy
Spirit that the principles taught them are pure,
and essential to the promotion of peace, happi-
ness and prosperity in this and in a future state
of existence. During the forenoon of the first
day of Conference, President Young remarked
to the Saints that when left to themselves for a
short time they were apt to begin to look at the
failings of others, forgetful of their own, and
thus lose the Spirit of light and deceive them-
selves. He said that prosperity would be given
to a portion of the Saints, while others could
not bear it but would be overthrown thereby.
	Who would not like to be prosperous in their
efforts to accomplish what they believe to be
right? Would it not “pay” any believer in the
Scriptures to “Seek the Kingdom of Heaven
and its righteousuess,” thus laying a sure foun-
dation upon which to build those things for
which the whole human family are striving-
riches, power, glory? There would certainly be
more wisdom in looking to ourselves and seeing
that we are prepared to receive blessings as they
are handed out to us, that we may not be over-
thrown by any of them, than in running wild
after the follies and vanities of the world, as
some of the brethren and sisters seem to be do-
ing. For as fast as we humble ourselves and
make ready, all the riches and glory that we
can take care of will be given to us.
	The President also remarked that “If the
Lord designs to try His people in all things as
has been spoken, we should see to it and be
prepared for each event as it transpires. For we
live in the fulness of times, when the Lord will
come to reign as King of Kings, and He should
be our law giver.”


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.
The Report of the Hyrum Society was re-
ceived too late for publication this number, but
will appear in our next.
Provo and Logan are talking of papers, and
each will probably have one before a great
while. Southern Utah, too, should support a
larger sheet than the “Pomologist,” while in
Mr. J. E. Johnson it has a veteran editor of ex-
perience and ability.
"Will correspondents have the kindness,
in every instance, to send their names with
[new column]
their contributions? This is not that they may
be published, but that we may know who the
writers are. We have contributions now which
we hesitate to use, solely because the names of
the writers did not accompany the manuscripts.
We are pleased to note the prosperity of the
“Ogden Junction," which has changed its
semi-weekly form to a quarto shape, with a
new and hansome heading; and is published as
a daily as well. The “Junction” is a lively,
wide-awake sheet, which continues to grow in
public favor; and under the editorial and busi-
ness management of Mr. Penrose has been
made a financial success. It has our best
wishes for its continued prosperity.
The mild, beautiful weather, which prevailed
during the session of the Territorial Fair and
Semi-Annual Conference, gave additional cause
for enjoyment and gratitude to the people who
attended both with a desire to be pleased and
benefitted, in connection with the excellent
music afforded by the bands and the united
choirs, and the many splendid ideas given to
the Saints for reflection and general use.
President George A. Smith leaves this
morning for the East, accompanied by Elder
Feramorz Little. President Smith designs to
visit several parts of the United States, some
countries of Europe, and the Holy Land during
his absence, which he expects will extend to
about a year. The faith and prayers of the
Saints will be with him and the company that
will travel with him, who leave about the 26th
instant, during their absence.
The many friends of Sister Eliza R. Snow
will be pleased to learn that she is to make one
of the company that is to start about the 26th
of this month for a trip through a portion of the
United States and a visit to some other countries,
including the Holy Land. That she will go
with the faith and blessings of the Sisters who
have known and appreciated her good works in
Zion, is fully evinced by the many tokens for-
warded to that effect. Prayers will be offered
up on every hand, for her good health and
pleasure while she will be absent, and for her
early and safe return to her mountain home.
A Teachers’ Association was organized in
this City during the recent Conference, the
Convention of which it was the outgrowth be-
ing well attended by teachers from different
parts of the Territory. The Association is a
good one; its objects should command the sup-
port of every person in the Territory who has
the cause of education at heart, and its efforts
cannot result other than in good. Still, we
were disappointed in one thing connected with
it. There are many ladies engaged in the pro-
fession of teaching in the Territory, and who
are doing good work; yet on looking over the
names of the officers we do not find a lady’s
among them.
At a meeting of the Superintendents and
Teachers of Sabbath Schools, held on the even-
ing of the 7th inst., at the City Hall of this
City, nearly all the Counties in the Territory
and Wards of this City were represented. Many
Interesting topics pertaining to the best meth-
ods of conducting Sabbath Schools were ad-
vanced and dwelt upon, by several members;
and much encouragement and credit was given
to schools in general. Sabbath School Jubilees,
it is contemplated, will be held semi-annually
In Ogden, hereafter. So much good is believed
to have resulted from the one lately held there,
that all are anxious to have an improved repe-
tition, and an expansion of the blessings real-
ized, about the 1st of May next. Other organi-
zations of the same kind will, doubtless, adopt
similar proceedings for the gratification of
Sabbath School attendants, and the prosperity
of the Schools,


﻿WOMAN’S VOICE.
				   ——
			KAYSVILLE, Sept., 26th; 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	In looking over the last number of the
EXPONENT, I felt thankful that our Father
in Heaven had given us an opportunity of
expressing our feelings with regard to 
"polygamy," as it is called. I have had a 
practice of twenty years in it, and I know
and can testify to the world that it is a pure
and holy principle; and if it  practiced ac-
cording to the will and design of our Father
in Heaven, it cannot fail to ennoble and ex-
alt the sons and daughters of Adam. I know
that no true Latter-day Saint can honestly
say that "polygamy" is not true. We are 
not as foolish as many suppose us to be. We
know in whom we have trusted. We do
not count the trials of this present life
worthy to be compared with the glory which
will be given unto us, if we will faithfully
discharge our duties. We did not come on
this earth like butterflies for gaudy show,
but we came here to help  accomplish the
will of God. We do not care what the 
world may think, or say, about us; it has no
effect upon a true Latter-day Saint; and they
who profess to be Saints who do not see
that plurality is right, should never raise
their hands or voices against it, for if they
do they will instead of injuring us bring
down the displeasure of an angry God upon
themselves. There is one thing the world
may rest assured of; that as long as the
Kingdom of God remains upon the earth, so 
long "polygamy" will remain. The wicked
may threaten and lay secret plans to try to
destroy us; but that God who has thus far
brought us safely through all the changing
scenes which we have been subject to, will
continue to overrule all things for the good
of His children, and for the building up of 
His Kingdom.								S.


﻿A MUSICAL WAIF.
				      —
	One of the finest specimens of home pro-
duction that we found, while attending the
Territorial Fair, was a beautiful little “music
box,” which not only performed nicely with-
out the trouble of winding up, but had also
the remarkable power of self locomotion.
The only unpleasantness connected with its
intonations, was while we listened it played
but one tune and that in rather a high key.
Our attention was drawn to the little “in-
strument,” standing by its self in the hall,
by its mournful yet lusty rendering of “I
can’t find my mama,” wbich it continued to
play while we stood by for a minute or so.
Our sympathies were aroused, and bending
down we endeavored by gently patting, and
saying something of a soothing and hopeful
nature, to change the tune or stop the music;
but we started up in dismay upon finding
that this only made it strike an octave high-
er and continue the same tune with double
the force. We felt like taking that strangely
attractive yet neglected bit of household
furniture in our arms, and lulling it into
quietness; but we had read upon so many
other articles, “Please don’t touch,” that al-
though this precious little token did not
bear the signal, we thought perhaps we had
better not interfere with it farther, and so
passed on. After a little while, we made it
in our way to pass the spot again, but the
music had ceased and the instrument was
gone. Likely the owner had been around
and concluded, as it was Saturday in the
afternoon, it might as well go home. We
made several enquiries concerning it, but
did not ascertain to whom it belonged.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


﻿ LINES.
WRITTEN FOR ISABEL HAMILTON.

	[PUBLISHED BY REQUEST.]
Sister give thy baby up—
	It is thy Father's will;
The little time he stayed with you
	A mission 'twas to fill.

He was a little angel sent,
	From fairer worlds on high,
To take a body here on earth
	The laws of life to try.

But now it is the Savior calls
	The little sufferer home;
Why should we mourn to lay him down
	When he his work hath done?

Our Father we now dedicate
	This baby unto Thee:
May we be worthy still to claim
	Him in eternity.
					MARGRET A. WHITE.


﻿BEECHER ON WOMAN SUFFRAGE.
				  —
	We can see no necessity for going back
to “an ancient Semitic nation and a king
who had seven hundred wives,” to deter-
mine the question of woman’s rights. Ask
some men of the present age, good, noble,
honest, temperate and intelligent men,
with two, five or ten wives each, and they
will answer that woman should not only be
granted suffrage but should be free to avail
herself of every advantage which men have
for gaining useful knowledge. One of their
mottoes is “educate the mothers, elevate her
children.” The following ideas are sound
and correct, and it is a pity that all men do
not think with Beecher on the subject in
question:
	People fear the effect upon the family if
women should vote and think. They think
that the tenderness and sweetness of the
family relation has something to do with
weakness. It has much to do with fineness,
but not with weakness. It is not the fact of
woman’s looking up to man that pleases
him—it is that in her that looks up. We
know what Solomon said of woman without
thought and without judgment, and he
surely ought to know—he had seven hun-
dred wives. If the question of Woman’s
rights is to be determined by quoting the
Old Testament, I have but a word to say: It
is the last question which ought to be de-
cided for us by an ancient Semitic nation
and a king who had seven hundred wives.
A greater freedom for woman will not unsex
her. That is the very fear that the Orient-
als everywhere have to-day, and you laugh
at them. Once, in Athens, no woman could
learn literature, eloquence or philosophy
unless she were a courtesan. The virtuous
mother and wife were denied these refine-
ments, this knowledge, which were thus
made the insignia of unvirtue. Since then,
woman has steadily progressed through the
centuries, until now she is a leader in litera-
ture, foremost among artists. Has litera-
ture, art and philosophy made her less fit
for a wife and mother? Does it take away
taste and destroy refinement to ponder
deeply? Make mothers more and you make
their children more. You will not make
them coarse by giving them power. Is God
coarse because he is infinite? That which
the family needs more than anything else Is
a higher state of womanly development.


A LADY of San Francisco, named Mrs.
Chloe Shorey, is making a silk quilt, which
is to contain upwards of 17,000 pieces. The
same lady won a prize at a State Fair in
Vermont for the superior beauty and artistic
skill displayed in a quilt which contained up-
wards of 20,000 pieces, some years ago when
a resident of that State.


﻿GRAINS OF GOLD.
			      —
	LOVE is to the moral nature what the sun
is to the earth.—Balzac.
	ONE of the best remedies for the ills of
life is to have so much noble occupation as
to forget them.
	ONE may live as a conquerer, a king, or a
magistrate; but he must die as a man—no
discount on that.
	BASE all your actions upon a principle of
right; preserve your integrity of character,
and in doing this never reckon the cost.
	THE nerve which never relaxes, the eye
which never blanches, the thought which
never wanders—these are the masters of
victory.
	MEN are often capable of greater things
than they perform; they are sent into the
world with bills of credit, and seldom draw
to their full extent.
	THE following sentiment, given at a rail-
way festival, shows the heart of a true man:
“Our mothers—the only faithful tenders
who never misplace a switch.”
	COURAGE and modesty are virtues which
every sort of society reveres, because they
are virtues which cannot be counterfeited;
also they are known by the same hue.
	TRUE courage is cool and calm. The
bravest of men have the least of brutal,
bullying insolence, and in the very time of
danger are found the most serene and free.
	THE hardest thing in the world for a little
man to learn is that people don’t give them-
selves the trouble to think abou this littleness.
This is equally true in its moral application, 
	I FEEL that I am growing old for want of
somebody to tell me that I am looking as
young as ever. Charming falsehood! There
is a vast deal of vital air In loving words.—
Lander.
	THOSE who retire from the world on ac-
count of its sins and peskiness, must not
forget that they have yet to keep company
with a person who wants just as much
watching as anybody else. 
	WHEN a man thinks that nobody cares
for him, and that he is alone in a cold and
selfish world, he would do well to ask him-
self what he has done to make anybody care
for and to love him. And a woman has a
perfect right to do the same.
	FOR your own, as well as for your child-
ren’s sake, learn to speak low. They will
remember that tone when your head is un-
der the willows. So, too, will they remem-
ber a harsh and angry tone. Which legacy
will you leave your children?
	IT is noble and a great thing to cover the
blemishes and to excuse the faults and fail-
ings of a friend; to draw a curtain before
his stains, and to display his perfections; to
bury his weakness in silence, but to pro-
claim his virtues on the housetop.
	IT is not work that kills men; it is worry.
Work is healthy: you can hardly put more
upon a man than he can bear. Worry is
rust upon the blade. It is not the revolu-
tion that destroys the machinery, but the
friction. Fear secretes acids; but love and
trust are sweet juices.—Beechea.
	IF we work upon marble, it will perish;
if we work upon brass, time will effect it; if
we rear temples, they will crumble into dust;
but if we work upon the immortal minds—if
we imbue them with principles, with the
just fear of God and our fellow men—we en-
grave on those tabletssomething which will
brighten to all eternity.


﻿The Woman’s Club House in New York
will be ready for occupancy this Winter.


﻿LOVE.
				   —
	I wish that dear word, so expressive and
so real in its beautiful significance, was not 
so much abused by praters who do not un-
derstand, or else do not stop to consider its
true meaning and worth. It is always an-
noying to me to hear love spoken of in a
trifling and heartless manner by the un-
thinking or vicious. Why should they gos- 
sip and laugh over a theme so holy! A great, 
fine, noble looking man—a bachelor—whose
very smile bore indications of disappointed
hopes, decided once that love, like wine,
had become so much adulterated that there
remained nothing genuine about it. It
would have sounded more philosophical, I 
thought, had he said that love, like woman,
had been underestimated so much and so
long that its real value was now rarely, if
ever ascertained and appreciated. The fact
that many people who make and sell wines 
for the sake of the profits they realize from 
so doing, are not honest enough to care any- 
thing abut the quality of the liquor pro- 
duced, only as its price is affected, is no 
proof that if a man grows grapes and makes 
his own wine, he cannot have it as pure 
and sweet as if there were no such thing In
existence as adulterated wine. And because
we do not find the world full of love like
that of home, is no sign that it has ceased to
exist in its true, native,guileless state. “True
love seeks the happiness and welfare of its
object.” It is a pitiable heart that has only 
room in it for one individual, or even a
small circle of near friends and relatives.
The lover of mankind labors for the good of
the human family, and he will never be left
without love, the purest and best, for it 
reigns predominant in his own breast.
									L.


﻿THE PHILOSOPHY Of RAIN.—To under- 
stand the philosophy of this beautiful and
often sublime phenomenon, so often wit-
nessed since the creation of the world, and
so essential to the very existence of plants
and animals, a few facts derived from ob-
servation and a long train of experiments 
must be remembered:
	1.	Were the atmosphere every where at
times of a uniform temperature, we should 
never have rain, or hail, or snow. The wa- 
ter absorbed by it in evaporation from the
sea and earth’s surface, would descend in
an imperceptible vapor, or cease to be ab-
sorbed by the air when it was once fully
saturated.
	2.	The absorbing power of the atmos-
phere, and consequently its capacity to re- 
tain humidity, is proportionately greater in
warm than cold air.
	3.	The air near the surface of the earth
is warmer than it is in the region of the
clouds. The higher we ascend from the 
earth the colder do we find the atmosphere. 
Hence the perpetual snow on very high  
mountains in the hottest climate.
	Now, when, from continued evaporation, 
the air is highly saturated with vapor, 
though it be invisible and the sky cloudless,
f its temperature is suddenly reduced by 
cold currents descending from above, or
rushing from a higher to a lower latitude,
or by the motion of saturated air to a cooler 
latitude, its capacity to retain moisture is 
diminished, clouds are formed, and the re- 
suit is rain. Air condenses as it cools, and, 
like a sponge filled with water and com- 
pressed, pours out the water which its di- 
minished capacity cannot hold. How sing- 
ular, yet how simple, the philosophy of rain! 
What Omniscience could have devised such
an admirable arrangement for watering the 
earth?


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TRIP LIGHTLY.
		  —
Trip lightly over trouble,
	Trip lightly over wrong.
We only make grief double
	By dwelling on it long.
Why clasp woe’s hand so tightly?
	Why sigh o’er blossoms dead?
Why cling to forms unsightly?
	Why not seek joy instead?

Trip lightly over sorrow,
	Though all the day be dark,
The sun will shine to-morrow,
	And gaily sing the lark;
For hopes have not departed,
	Though roses may have fled;
Then never be down-hearted,
	But look for joy instead.

Trip lightly over sadness,
	Stand not to rail at doom;
We’ve pearls to string of gladness,
	On this side of the tomb;
While stars are nightly shining,
	And the Heaven is overhead,
Encourage not repining,
	But look for joy instead.


﻿JAMES FISK AND THE NEWSBOY.
				——
	 Stories of Col. Fisk are constantly in circu-
lation—some true, others not; but a little
incident which occurred not many months
before his death is perhaps one of the most
I touching of any that have been given to the
public. This one Mrs. Fisk takes especial
pleasure in recalling, illustrating, as it does,
her husband’s kindness of heart and readi-
ness of sympathy and help to those who
I needed aid. Col. Fisk had often noticed in
Twenty-third street a little crippled news-
boy, and one day he spoke to him in his
bluff, off-hand manner:
	“Well, my boy, how’s business?”
	“Not very good, sir,” was the reply.
	“What’s the matter?”
	“Why, you see I’m lame and can’t sell 
my papers very well.”
	“Not a very good lookout for you, is it? I
say, my boy, how would you like to go into
business with me?”
	The boy looked perplexed and eyed the
Colonel curiously.
	“I think we might strike a bargain. You
come to the Opera House at 11 this morn-
ing. I’ve got a plan for you. Now be on
time.”
	At 11 o’clock the boy was there, quite
curious to know what the Colonel wanted.
	“Hulloa, boy, you’re a good one. Now
see here, do you know a place for a paper
stand?”
	“Yes, sir, tip-top.”
	“Where is it?”
	“Down here at the corner.”
	“How much will a stand cost?”
	“Lots of money; much as fifty or a hun-
dred dollars.”
	“You don’t say so; why that’s a fortune.
Do you think there’s monoy to be made
there?”
	“Yes I do. It’s a first-rate place.”
	“Wel, I’ll get a carpenter to make the
stand and I’ll stock it; then you shall take
care of it and we’ll be partners; you and I
will go into the paper business.” 
	Col. Fisk then arranged with the boy
what part of the profits he should receive,
told him when the stand should be ready
and sent him on his way rejoicing. The plan
was very successful. Trade was good, and
evey week the boy carried his share of the
money to his partner. Seeing the boy’s
determination. Col. Fisk quietly put the
money aside, and one day gave it all to the
boy, releasing him from his contract to pay
any part of the money to himself. When
Col. Fisk died there was nowhere a sincerer
mourner than this little newsboy, and the
little stand on the corner was heavily draped
on the day of the burial.


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.
				     —
The sum of $836 was realized by the read-
ings of Miss Charlotte Cushman at Newport,
given in aid of the Newport hospital.
	THE LOUISVILLE “Courier-Journal” says
that Judge Davis is the proprietor of a smile
that would make Colfax turn green with
jealousy. It “commences in the center and
spreads all over his face like a batter-cake”
	A GOOD WOMAN never grows old. Years
may pass over her head, but if benevolence
and virtue dwell in her heart she is as
cheerful as when the spring of life first
opened to her view. When we look upon a
good woman we never think of her age; she
looks as charming as when the rose first
bloomed on her cheek. That rose has not
faded yet; it will never fade. In her neigh-
borhood she is a friend and benefactor; in
the church the devout worshipper and ex-
emplary Christian. Who does not love and
respect the woman who has passed her days
in acts of kindness and mercy; who has been
the friend of man and God, her life has been
a scene of kindness and love, devotion to
truth and religion? We repeat, such a wo-
man cannot grow old. She will always be
fresh and buoyant in her spirit and active in
her humble deeds of mercy and benevolence.
If the young lady desires to retain the bloom
and beauty of youth, let her not yield to the
sway of fashion and folly; let her love truth
and virtue, and to the close of life she will
retain those feelings which now make life
appear a garden of sweets, ever fresh and
green.—Ex.
	PRINCESS ALEXDROWA Troubescheneff,
nee Stratoneroskoff, (or words to that effect,)
sailed from Bremen recently on the New
York steamer. She comes to the United
States to join the “Oneida Society,” New
York. The Princess belongs to one of the
families of the old feudal nobility, is im-
mensely wealthy, and enjoys a certain popu-
larity as a graceful writer of local plays.
She also published a few years since a small
volume of Russian poetry, in the Deshoul-
lieries style. She is a Princess of no small
talent, but her “forte” is the languages; she
speaks no less than seven of them. Is it
possible that a person so richly gifted shall
soon be seen among that sisterhood of the
Bloomer costume, in those odious brown
frocks and drawers to match; her beautiful
tresses cut to her ears, and those lovely
white hands busily engaged manufacturing
apple sauce? The New York “Herald”
may spare Mr. Stanley this time. She has
declared, on leaving, she would refuse to be
interviewed by American newspaper re-
porters.—“New York Herald.”
	“OYEZ, OYEZ! Advance to the bar Miss
Phoebe Couzens, and receives an address of
welcome from Judge McKean and the hearty
congratulations of her brethren in the law.
All this in Salt Lake City, on motion of
Governor Woods. At the same time Miss
Snow, daughter of the Territory Attorney
General, was also admitted on motion of ex-
United States Attorney Hempstead. What
with the progress of the gentler sex in
Wyoming politics and Utah law, that part
of America promises to be ‘the woman’s
kingdom’. Now let us see if the new law-
yeresses, bretherin’ and sisterin’ of the bar,
do themselves proud.”
	We know that fair Phoebe will. She was
exceedingly fair to look upon, and had
sweet, winning ways and a musical voice.
But why, oh! Phoebe, goest thou to Salt
Lake? Was it in search of a part of a man
in that polygamous region, when thou
couldst have had that here?—“Washington
Capital.”


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.
				—
	THREE-FOURTHS of the pleasures of a holi-
day lie in the planning of it.
	HENRY W. LONGFELLOW pays a tax of
$2,666, and James Russell Lowell $753.
	DUVALL county, Fla., with a population
of less than 12,000, has, during the last
twenty-four months, had 52 homicides and
suicidal deaths, and 32 fatal accidents. Only
one murderer has been hung.
	REV. DeWitt Talmadge’s Tabernacle in
Brooklyn started three years ago with 19
members. To the 19 have been added 500
by letter or profession, and the congrega-
tion has given for all objects $98,800.
	JUSTICE is impartial. P. D. Banks, an
Iowa man, has no money to speak of and
goes to the penitentiary for ten years for
robbing the mails. Simon Smith, of the
same State, equally guilty, and a counter-
feiter besides, pays $2,400 and escapes.
	A NIAGARA Falls correspondent has spent
some time in classifying the arrivals for last
season, which numbered 41,975; New York
heads the list with 14,978; Illinois shows 1,-
490; the British Provinces, 1,565; Europe,
1,100; the Orient, 105, and Africa, 4.
	THE collar of the Order of the Golden
Fleece, which was sent by King Amadeus
of Spain to the Comte de Flanders, is the
identical collar which was worn by Christo-
pher Columbus, and with which he was in-
vested with the Order by Ferdinand and
Isabella, in honor of the discovery of America.
	THE eleven Territories, as accurately as
can at present be ascertained, contain over
one billion and a quarter acres, exceeding
by nearly two hundred thousand square
miles the aggregate territory of all the
present admitted States of the Union. The
Territory of Alaska, containing 369,529,600
acres, is included in the number stated.
	GARDEN Islahd is the name of a little is-
land in Lake Ontario, near the city of King-
ston. The population is about 1,000. Twenty
years ago a law was passed that no liquor
should on any pretense be brought on the
island. There is not a pauper nor a police-
man among the inhabitants, and not a case
has come before the magistrate for fifteen
years.
	A DETROIT man recently forswore tobac-
co. He eats a few things to get through
each day. The following is a list of a few
little things required the first day:	Six
oranges, fourteen apples, ten cents worth of
peanuts, two sticks of spruce gum, three
large sticks of candy, a pint of roasted chest-
nuts, one cake of maple sugar, three cents
worth of liquorice root, and half an ounce of
camomile blows.
	A COLORED member of the Texas Legis-
lature was recently seen with a roll of green-
backs in his hand, over which he chuckled
so loudly as to attract the attention of a by-
stander, who said to him: “What are you
laughing at, Jim?” Jim replied, “You see
the money?” “Yes.” “Well, boss, I just
got that for my vote; I’se been bought four
or five times in my life, and dis is de fust
time I ever got the cash myself.”
	A WONDERFUL cave has been discovered
in Center county, Pennsylvania, said to be
equal, if not superior, to the Mammoth
Cave, of Kentucky. When once inside, the
most magnificent and delightfully beautiful
sights are presented to the gaze. The rooms
are numerous and large, but have not yet
been fully explored. Directly under the
cave is another, supposed, to be much larger
and richer in its queer and Indian-like
specimens.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S AIMS.
				     —
	“Our aims have' been too low we; must
improve them.”
	It is argued by some that we need incen-
tives. We need our eyes opened and our
understandings quickened to make us com-
prehend the incentives which we have al-
ways had, to induce us to educate ourselves.
Should not the knowledge that by so doing
we not only benefit ourselves, but improve
society and expand and elevate the nature
of future generations, be a sufficient incite-
ment to energy and perseverance?
	Too many gay, thoughtless young women,
who have abundance of time and talent,
were they but properly applied, to make of
themselves some of the brightest ornaments
of society, give their attention to nothing
but fashionable nonsense and vanity. Many
a superb form and lovely face seem to be
considered by their possessor to have been
bestowed upon her for no other purpose than
for making conquests and gaining a good
match. Many a fine, sweet voice exerts its
power only for the attraction of a set of
trifling, worthless admirers and flatterers.
What have our mothers been about! Why
have we not been taught to couple goodness
and intelligence with all these beautiful
gifts, these priceless endowments with which
God has blessed us, that the influence and
power we hold might be something worth!
Why do fathers, brothers, husbands and
lovers indulge and encourage inconsisten-
cies in dress and indolence, and yet exclaim
against them and against women as their
inventors! Why do they not lift us up, or
rather allow us to climb for ourselves? for it
is quite impossible for them to teach us
what we are not inclined to learn, but they
might assist and cheer us on when they see
us trying to improve our aims, instead of
seeking to decoy us back into the old chan-
nel of idleness and ignorance, by flattering
vanity and encouraging useless pastime.
Were there no future upon which to base
our aims, the satisfaction there is to be found
in deep thought and earnest study, in gain-
ing wisdom and cultivating intelligence, is
far greater than any enjoyment realized in
air castle-building.


﻿DANIEL BOON's sister Hannah is living in
Caldwell County, North Carolina. She is 85
years old.


Z. C. M. I.

	RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.

	We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,

Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-

riety of our Patrons.

	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated

		SALT LAKE GLOVES.

	Children's Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty.
	
	While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics.

of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,

Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-

est possible figure.
						H. B. CLAWSON, Sup't.
[new column]
LADIES!
	Go to Taylor & Cutler’s for Dress Goods, No-
tions, etc. Also the Cheapest Store for Family Gro- ’
ceries in town. Call and see.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

DR. W. H. GROVES,
						DENTIST,
	Office Second South Street, Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
			Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by.
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

			JOHNSON'S

	HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES!

Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-
	
	ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.

	BONESET PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.

	EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.

	CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in 
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.

	ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills. Price 50 cents.
	
	These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at

		ZION’S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,

Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.
	
	If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them.

	Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.
	
	AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.

From the Laboratory of 
						J. E. JOHNSON,.  
					       	St. George, Utah.
[new column]


		WOMAN’ S EXPONENT.
		
		A UTAH LADIES’ JOURNAL.

	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women every where. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.

	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.

	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves?  “It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to he misrepresented
by others!"

	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.

	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.

	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound 
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.

	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but 
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R. Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from 
her numerous duties.

	WOMAN'S EXPONENT will he published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the  
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so 
valuable that it will be found in every family in 
Utah.

	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:	
1Copy one year, $2.00			I Copy six months,    $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00		10 Copies six months, 9.00

	No subscription received for less than six months. 
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents 
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a 
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

	Address all communications and subscriptions
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City,	
Utah.


Woman's Exponent.
﻿VOL. I.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1872. 		
.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE EASIEST thing In the world to make
—a mistake.
	JUDGE CURTIS got eight thousand dollars
for defending Mrs. Fair, and securing her
acquittal. Crittenden only got a bullet.
	ON TUESDAY next, the 5th inst., the Uni-
ted States will elect the President for the
four years commencing March 4th, 1873.
	ONE'S TEETH chatters to think that while
Utah has been having a delightful Indian
Summer the crowning enjoyment of Michi-
ganders was sleigh-riding.
	STANLEY-AFRICANUS, the discoverer of
Livingstone, will lecture on his African ex-
perience, and may “discover” Salt Lake on
his way to the Pacific Coast.
	AGASSIZ "FISHED" in the Sacramento
river, and by exploding torpedoes caught
about a thousand. But it was science that
authorized the finny butchery.
	THE GREAT question of the coming Presi-
dential electian still remains undecided; and
radicals of the two contending parties con-
tinue slashing at each other with increas-
ing violence.
	“POMEROY'S DEMOCRAT” says Brigham
Young’s smallest child has forty-nine moth-
ers. If he appreciates the worth of one
mother as he should do, he must consider
that child blessed indeed.
	PAYMENT OF workmen on Mondays, in-
stead of Saturdays, is being agitated in the
east. A sensible movement, and one that
may prevent much intemperance, if it does
no further good, should it prevail.
	ONE OF the most shocking and terrible in-
cidents we find recorded in late news items,
is that of a little boy, in Lexington, only
seven years of age, purposely and deliber-
ately shooting and killing a little girl five
years of age.
	GREELEY SAYS “strategy in politics is the
tribute which craft pays to strength: The
wolf-skin proving too short, the fox’s tail is
pressed into service to piece it out.” That’s
quoting Bulwer’s “Richelieu” with a pres-
ant application.
	A GENTLEMAN in Paris had his false
teeth seized upon for debt; he claimed that
they were sacred, as a part of his person,
and that the officer had no right to touch
them, but the officer contended that he had.
Are teeth personal property? It is a tooth-
some query.
	AN IOWA patriarch is too old to be fash-
ionable. Over eighty, he is yet the father
of a three-year old baby, the last of thirty,
and is proud of his youngest. Here in Utah
such a man with his wife would command
respect, as an honor to the commonwealth.
How is it in Iowa?
	VIRGINIA, THE “Old Dominion,” still en-
joys horse racing with ladies for riders; and
at a recent fair in Culpepper, three fair
equestrians rode so well that the judges had
to decide by lot which should have the
prize. There is more vigor of body and
manly honesty to the next generation in
such exercises being enjoyed by the coming
mothers, than lolling in cushioned chairs
devouring trashy sentimental novels can
give.
[new column]
	INDIAN TROUBLES in Texas, in Dacotah,
on the line of the Northern Pacific, in Idaho,
Arizona, and in other parts of the great
sparcely settled portion of the United States,
while delegations of chiefs are visiting
Washington, and being feasted and petted
there. However wise may be the general
policy of Government towards the Indians,
it will be unsuccessful until honest men can
be found to act between the Government
and the Indians; and honest men seem a
scarce article in such positions.
	GROSS FRAUDS are charged in the late
Pennsylvania election; and what is worse,
in several instances glaring ones have been
proved. Just when money can buy the
requisite number of votes, or fraud secure
them, or both combined,to carry an election,
at that time republican liberty has received
its death blow in the country, and central-
ized tyranny of any pre-determined kind
need only wait the will of capitalists and
clever scoundrels who may be placed in con-
trol of election matters.
	A TERRIBLE horse disease is spreading
in epidemic form through the Eastern States.
Having made its appearance in Canada
about a month ago, it has spread into the
United States, and has attacked thousands
on thousands of animals. Science cannot
account for it, and the knowing ones are be-
wildered. It is one of the signs of the times
which the wise understand, but which those
who disregard the workings of a higher
Power among the nations vainly seek to
comprehend.
	SARAH M. HUNTINGDON, of Norwalk,
Connecticut, is likely to be the first woman
that will cast a vote for President of the
United States. On Saturday last, the 26th
ult., she was duly recognized by the select-
men of that town, and on next Tuesday can
cast her ballot for Grant or Greeley as potent-
ly as any “independent sovereign” in the
country. All honor to Norwalk, which has
set the example to all other towns in the
States, by following the lead of Utah and
Wyoming, in giving to woman representa-
tion with taxation.
	THE TRIAL of the New York official
thieves may be said to have commenced
with that of Mayor Hall, and so far the dis-
closures show how the tax payers of that
city were robbed. When New York, Phila-
delphia, Washington, Boston, Chicago, San
Francisco and a few other large cities weed
out their official rogues, their masculine de-
stroyers of virtue, and their dens of infamy
and vice, we will be content at their paying
a little attention to Utah. But their work
of justice and labor of charity should begin
at home.
	IF THE following could be adhered to and
its regulation respected the complaints
about tyrant officials and misconstructions of
law, order and justice, would cease to vex
the ears of the Government: “Complete
liberty and exact equality in the enjoyment
of all civil, political, public and private rights
should be established and effectually main-
tained throughout the Union by efficient
and appropriate State and Federal legisla-
tion. Neither law nor its administration
should admit of any discrimination in re-
[new column]
spect to citizens by reason of race, creed,
color, or previous condition of servitude.”
	AMONG THE most important events of the
current year will be counted the opening of
the telegraph lines across the continent of
South America, connecting Valparaiso with
Buenos Ayres, and to Australia, connecting
Melbourne and Singapore. When connec-
tions between Panama and Valparaiso, Egypt
and the Cape of Good Hope, Panama and
San Diego shall be made, telegraphic bonds
will then bind together the whole civilized
world. And railways and steamships will
hasten on, making the inhabitants of the
earth as near one family as their varied
customs and notions will admit of their be-
coming.
	J. A. FROUDE, the eminent English histo-
rian, has been telling New Yorkers what he
knows about Ireland’s dissatisfaction under
its subjugation to England; and frankly con-
fessed that, with other intelligent English-
men, he was at a loss to understand the
cause of that dissatisfaction. When such
men honestly admit their ignorance on so
important a matter, there is reason to hope
that it may be intelligently enquired into;
but in the past, the great blunder has been
one that is too common in many things and
with many persons, of imagining that every-
thing was understood, and proceeding to re-
move causes of evil which did not exist,
while the actual causes were left untouched
and undiscovered.
	“THERE IS no longer any temptation to
indulge in tight lacing for a small waist is
not now considered fashionable; that is, a
waist out of proportion to the height of the
figure and the breadth of the shoulders.
Fashion and comfort are, therefore, happily
in accordance with each other. Another re-
form is that the waist is now displayed the
natural length, which, in a properly pro-
portioned figure, is in a line midway between
the hip and the lowest rib.” We clip the
forgoing from a lady’s magazine. It is to
be hoped that news of this common-sense re-
form is being rapidly and widely spread,
and the change adopted. If fashion could
dispense with the temptation to indulge
in the use of high heels and hunch-backs,
and some other ridiculous, unnatural and
cruel customs, she would be a much more
pleasing and loveable tyrant than she now
appears.
	TWO EMINENT Americans have passed
from, earth since the last issue of the Ex-
ponent; one—Wm. H. Seward—eminent
as a statesman; the other—“Fanny Fern”—
famed in the world of letters. The nation
mourned the honored Seward, and unaffect-
ed sorrow was felt when his death was an-
nounced. The authoress, too, had a wide
circle of mourners. But death strikes the
lofty and the prominent with as little hesi-
tation as the lowest and most obscure. It is
the common lot, and they meet it best who
meet it bravely after well spent lives. The
people of Utah should preserve green the
memory of Mr. Seward, who, animated by
liberal views and possessing a statesman’s
enlightened and far-seeing mind, was over
opposed to the persecution and proscription,
sought to be directed against them, and en-
deavored to have their rights as Ameri-
can citizens justly observed.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THOU ART GOING.
		     —
RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED TO MISS ELIZA R.
	SNOW ON HER APPROACHING JOURNEY TO
	JERUSALEM.
					—
Thou art going dear sister, to th’ land long forsaken,
	Whose people, a hiss and a by-word, have been;
Who rejected the Savior, the way of salvation,
	And for centuries have dwindled in darkness and
	sin.

But the Spirit of God is now moving to gather,
	A people once favored, as scriptures record;.
Their cities and temples again there will flourish,
	And themselves live in peace, for a time, saith the
		Lord.

And thou, when thy feet tread the paths once familiar
	And dear to the Savior while dwelling below.
Thy soul will go forth in communion with Heaven,
	And glad strains of praise from thy full heart will
		flow.

Oh! what a rich feast, to a nature like thine,
	To view the paths trod, by that being divine,
And to feel that ere long He will tread them again,
	And be known to the Jews, as the Savior of men!

Thou art going, and with thee our blessings will go,
	And we’ll pray for thy safety thy long journey
	through;
We will not forget the rich counsels you’ve given,
	For they will refine and prepare us for Heaven.

May Heaven’s rich blessings rest on your companions,
	And Israel’s God be your guide and your friend;
May angels protect you, while absent from Zion,
	And guard you safe home, when your journeyings
	end.
						MRS. ANNE RANDALL.
	SPANISH FORK, Sept. 30th 1872.

And let us add, in friendship’s warmest tone,
	Servant of Zion’s daughters, not alone
We crave for thee the wage of peace and health,
	But new, bright stores of intellectual wealth;
Rich gems of thought, sweet words of solace, too,
	Thou’ll glean and bring to us, beloved and true.
										LULA.


F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.

		 HYRUM, Cache County, Utah,
					October 9th, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The Female Relief Society of this Ward
was organized nearly four years ago, and 
since that time we have accomplished much 
good. Our Society is in a healthy condi-
tion; we have endeavored to do all in our
power to comfort and bless the poor, the
widow, the fatherless and the sick; thus as-
sisting our Bishop and Teachers in some of
their labors. In addition to this we have 
sent ninety dollars to assist in gathering the
poor, and have given forty dollars to aid our
Sunday School in purchasing a library and
rewards. In connection with this Society
there is a Young Ladies' Retrenchment As-
sociation. We have a braiding school and
make straw hats in Summer.
	Although the outside world may number
us with the "poor, oppresse women of
Utah," we experience great pleasure in say-
ing, we have lived in the States and in the
old world, but prefer living in, and enjoy-
ing the glorious liberties of Utah and her
"Mormon" institutions, and in seeking to 
fill woman's mission as wives, mothers and
daughters, aiding suffering humanity
wherever found.
	"The widow's heart shall share our joy,
		The orphan and oppressed
	Shall see we love the sweet employ
		To succor the distressed,"
And thus maintain woman's legitimate
rights.
		CHRISTINA LILJENQUIST, President,
		MARTHA WARD,
		LUCY WILSON;	Counselors.
			HARRISVILLE, Oct. 12th, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	We send you a brief notice relative to the
advancement and progress of the F.R.
[new column]
Society of Harrisville, Weber County, which
was re-organized the 31st of March last, as
follows: Melissa A. Shurtliff, President;
Sarah J. Taylor and Nancy Rawson, Coun-
selors; Mary E. Taylor, Secretary, and
Louise Harris, Treasurer. We meet semi-
monthly, and our meetings are well attended.
Peace and good order prevail.  All seem
willing and anxious to do all they can to ad-
vance the welfare and objects of the Society,
which is small; but we have added $54 75
to its funds since the re-organization. We
receive and read the Exponent, and feel
much interested in the matter therein con-
tained.
			MELISSA A. SHURTLIFF, President.
			MARY E. TAYLOR, Secretary.
					—
				SPRINGVILLE, Oct. 12th, 1872.
	A celebration in honor of the organization
of the F. R. Society of Springville, which
was organized June 7th, 1868, was held in
the meeting House of this place, September
2th, 1872, the President of the Society,
Mrs. Cynthia Clyde, presiding.
	The choir sang pieces selected for the
occasion. The Financial report read by Mrs.
Hannah Carter, Secretary, showed that since
the organization $1,387 20 had been re-
ceived in donations, profits on labor, &c.
Disbursed to the poor, $672 68; paid to the
Provo Factory, on shares for the benefit of
the Society, $188 43; paid to the P. E. Fund,
$30; donated to the building of the Temple,
$305 70; donated for public purposes, $174.-
50.
	Addresses made by Bishop Bringhurst
and some of the Sisters, were instructing
and encouraging; and were followed by a
dialogue entitled “A Sewing Circle,”, by
twelve young ladies and one gentleman.
Songs, Recitations, Toasts, &c., followed.
			HANNAH CARTER, Secretary.


﻿HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
				—
	IF a woman aspires to be a proficient in
music, dancing, dressmaking, millinery, or
any other pleasant and useful forte, she ap-
plies her attention to it and takes pains to
acquaint herself with the various require-
ments which are likely to meet her in her
chosen pursuit. But the one great object
for which woman was designed, is too gener-
ally totally neglected, until she crosses the
threshold, enters a new world, and has ac-
tually taken upon her, by vow, the greatest
responsibilities which ever are or can be
placed upon her. She has promised by sacred
covenant to be a true, a faithful wife. How
little must girls realize of the vast import-
ance attached to that promise, which to ful-
fill with dignity and wisdom, requires the
choicest learning and discretion. True it is
that a good, kind, daughter and sister can
hardly fail to make a tender, patient, wife
and mother; but frequently much more is
required of the wife than the daughter ever
thinks of. Husbands are not likely to be as
charitable and considerate with their young
wives as parents with their daughters. And
it should be remembered that perfection in
any one branch of education, or even in
many of the most noble character, does .not
constitute a true wife. Whatever her other
attainments may be, if a woman does not
possess an even, well-governed temper, and
agreeable disposition, she will not make a
happy wife; for all other powers of mind and
body, it matters not how vivacious and bril-
liant they may appear at times, would fail
to create the requisite sunshine for the
rendering of a home cheerful and pleasant.
And in order to keep good natured, if a wo-
man is as sensitive and high-minded as any
man of common understanding would like 
[new colmn]
his wife to be, she must know how to con-
trive and manage her household affairs so as
to have every thing work smoothly, in
proper time and order, and have no jars to
interfere with the quiet concerns of every-
day life. Almost above every thing else,
she should be a first-class cook—i. e., she
should cultivate reason in this as well as
other things, and cook sensibly. In “John
Halifax” we find the following which recom-
mends itself:
	“Good temper, with many people, is
dependent upon good health; good health
upon good digestion; good digestion upon
wholesome, well-prepared food, eaten in
peace and pleasantness. Ill-cooked, untidy
meals are as great a cause for bad temper as
many a moral wrong; and a person of sensi-
tive physique may be nursed into a settled
hypochondria by living in close rooms,
where the sweet fresh air and sunshine are
determinedly shut out.”
	Potatoes.—No amount of fancy French
dishes can atone, at table, for want of skill
or care in cooking potatoes. Yet cooks often
fail in this simple and common dish. They
will put potatoes into cold water and bring
them slowly to a boil; or boil or bake them
too long. They should be removed from
the fire as soon as done. If boiled the water
should be drained off immediately.
	Potato Pudding.—Four ounces of pota-
toes, three ounces of white sugar, the same
of butter, two lemons, four eggs. Rub the
boiled potatoes through a sieve, add the
sugar pounded, and the butter; mix well;
then add the eggs well beaten; and last of
all the juice and grated rind of the lemons.
Line your dish with thin puff paste, making
it thicker at the edges; bake in a moderate
oven, not letting the pudding stand long
before baking; and it must be well stirred
just before putting it into the oven.
	Extraordinary stories are told of the
healing properties of a new oil, which is
easily made from the yolks of hen’s eggs.
The eggs are first boiled hard and the yolks
are then removed, crushed, and placed over
a fire where they are carefully stirred until
the whole substance is on the point of
catching fire, when the oil separates and
may be tured off. One yolk will yield nearly
two teaspoonfuls of oil. It is in general use
among the colonists of South Russia, as a
means of curing cuts, bruises and scratches.
	To Cure Pimples.—Abstain from every-
thing containing melted butter and lard.
Take a thorough daily scrubbing from head
to foot. Sleep cool, drink pure water, think
pure thoughts, and live a pure life.


"WE HAVE,” said Mr. Cox, “fallen on an
evil time. The olden day, when austerity
and simplicity gave rule to manners and
men, when a sense of public duty was the
brightest virtue of the statesman, has be-
come a nebulous, dim and hazy; recollection.
Can we not redeem the time? Is there no
man who has the plainness and frugality,
the benevolence and justice, to meet the
crisis?” There are men, and women too,
who have still enough of elevated and un-
selfish principle about them to be willing to
undertake the redemption of the good times
past; but where there are so many slothful
and dishonest harpies seeking and obtaining
offices, as judges and rulers, all over the
country, in order that they may live from
the earnings of the people, and not have to
exert themselves, as honest men do, to ob-
tain a livelihood, Mr. Cox, or any one else
need not hope for a speedy reformation; for
no man good and great enough to create
one, is likely to be vested with the authori-
ty.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿ RESPONSIVE.

	TO MY MAGNANIMOUS FRIENDS.
	
	Impress’d with, kindness which exhales
		Beneficence unsought;		
	I fain would speak, but language fails
		To grasp the swelling thought.

	E’en gratitude, deep cherish’d word,
		Unable to express
	The feelings in my bosom stirr'd,
		Dissolves in thankfulness.

	I go with humble, grateful heart
		For every kindness shown:
	May Heav'n its richer gifts impart
		To each and every one.

	I go depending on the care
		Of God, our Father God;
	For which, I ask your faith and prayers,
		While I remain abroad.
	
	The warm emotions of the heart
		Too full for utterance,	
	Must bask in silence—must resort
		T' unspoken eloquence.
									ELIZA R. SNOW.
Salt Lake City, Oct. 26th, 1872.


﻿DIVERSIONS. 
				—
	MANY of the rich planters of Jamaica live
on coffee grounds.
	“DAUGHTERCULTURAL shows” is the
latest name for a family party.
	IF Adam is accountable for “consequen-
tial damages,” he will have a rough time of
it. 
	THE Jewish “Messenger” wishes Stanley
to try his skill on the ten lost tribes of
Israel. 
	BILLINGS says, “There ain’t ennything
that will kompletely kure lazyness, but i
have known a second wife to hurry it sum.”
	“DO YOU think,” asked Mrs. Pepper,
“that a little temper is a bad thing in a
woman?”
	“Certainly not, ma’am,” replied the gal-
lant phiolsopher; “it is a good thing, and she
ought never to lose it.”
	A MUSIC dealer has in his window a sen-
timental song thus marked: “Thou hast
loved me and left me, for twenty-five
cents.”
	A little girl was tenderly nursing her
sick doll the other day, and on her mother
asking what ailed it, she replied, “It’s got
the ‘Alabama claims very bad.”
	The Earl of Shaftesbury, noted for his or-
thodoxy, said lately that if the Pope had a
wife, she would not allow him for an hour to
remain in the belief that he was infallable.
	An old maid suggests that when men
break their hearts, it is all the same as
when a lobster breaks one of his claws—an-
other sprouts immediately, and grows in its
place.
	An Illinois lover closed a letter to his lady
sentimentally as follows; “My best loved
one, I chawed the postage stamp on your
last letter all to thunder, because I knew
you licked it on.”
	A clergyman addressed his female audit-
ors as follows: “Be not proud that our Lord
paid your sex the distinguished honor of ap-
pearing first to a female after resurrection,
for it was only that the glad tidings might
spread the sooner.”
	THE characteristic of the umbrella is its
power of changing shapes. You may leave
a bran new silk with an ivory and rosewood
handle at any public gathering, and within
three hours it will transform itself into light
blue or faded brown cotton, somewhat less
in size than a circus tent, with a handle like
a telegraph pole and five fractured ribs.


﻿THE SEX.
			      —
	THE Queen of Sweden is a novelist. She
writes for the press over the nom de plume
of Annie Arden.
	ABBY Sage Richardson has a now lecture
for this season, on Sir Walter Raleigh and
his American voyages.
	A young lady in Georgia has petitioned
the Legislature to pass an act prohibiting
flirtation on the part of young men.
	A YOUNG lady in Harrisburg has been
made blind by the poisonous dyes in some
goods she has been sewing in a fashionable
dry goods house.
	CHICAGO has a shooting gallery for the ex-
clusive use of ladies, among whom there is
a growing restlessness to become proficient
with rifle and pistol.
	HARRIET Martineau and five hundred
other English women have petitioned the
House of Commons to dispense with the
“cat” as a means of punishment.
	A LONG Branch beauty was recently
weighed in her promenade costume and
turned the scales at 165 pounds. In her
bathing dress she weighs 106 pounds.
	In a Florida young ladies’ seminary the
thoughts of the inmates are taken from
dress, by putting the girls in uniform-
dark green for Winter and pink for Sum-
mer.
	“Dear me, how fluidly he talks,” said
Mrs. Partington recently at a temperance
meeting. “I am always rejoiced when he
mounts the nostral, for his eloquence warms
every catridge in my body.”
	Mrs. Richardson, of Cheshire, a relative
of Susan B. Anthony, who has carried on a
large farm for twelve years since her hus-
band’s death, thinks, now she is seventy-
seven years old, it is about time to retire
from business, and so is building a cottage
at the center of the town.
	Lilian Edgarton was lately compelled to
appear before a Memphis audience without
her lecture manuscript and her pretty dress,
both of the articles being in her trunk. She
compromised, however, by reading a sketch
of another lecture, and reciting “The
Launching of the Ship,” and the next even-
ing gave her lecture in full costume.
	Miss Edith Challis denies the truth of the
report of having been made the heiress of
an opulent old lady to whom she was kind
during her illness. Miss C. also says that
several pious English relatives, who had
ceased to recognize her since her connection
with the stage, became suddenly sociable,
and invited her to stay at their houses, on
learning that she had become a capitalist.
	The celerated lady dentist of Berlin, Mrs.
Henrietta Herschfeld, is described as a re-
fined and beautiful woman, with wonderful
strength in her small hand. She extracts
teeth with unsurpassed dexterity and pre-
cision. Moreover, she prepares well-written
articles for magazines, in which she instructs
mothers in regard to the care of children’s
teeth—a matter which seems not generally
understood in Germany.
	A SPINSTER who can stand the derogatory
remarks concerning old maids no longer,
writes to the Cincinnati “Times:” “I am
happy to say that I have for many years be-
longed to that class of much reviled women;
but many of my intimate friends have been
married women,and from them I have heard
more scandal and detraction, more jealousy
and rivalry, more of the spirit of ‘envy,
hatred, and malice and uncharitableness,’
than from any old maid I ever knew or heard
of.”


EDUCATION AND EMPLOYMENT OF
			GIRLS.
			  ——
	Nothing so tends to the degeneracy of
womanhood as a life of laziness and indulg-
ence—an aim for a wealthy husband, and
then life with no object nor aim beyond
raising a family, whether taste lies in that
direction or not. It is not only bad for
physical health, but is bad for moral also.
	A very serious and common mistake in
the training of our girls is the neglect defi-
nitely to provide against the vicissitudes of
life with the faculty of noble self support.
Just think of your daughter, well born and
rocked in the lap of luxury, coming, one of
these days, to sewing or keeping boarders
for a livelihood. Yet thousands of girls,
upon whose girlhood fortune lavished her
gifts, have come to that. It seems to us
that a very rich man who has daughters
should provide for them with visions of the
almshouse continually floating before his
eyes. No amount of pecuniary endowment
will be a sure defence against the demons of
pauperism. The fires may burn it up, the
waves may engulf it, prodigal scoundrels of
husbands may waste it, rascally trustees and
executors may pillage it. These and a
thousand kindred contingencies considered,
besides the proverbial helplessness of wo-
man, are almost enough to make a thought-
ful and cautious man pray that daughters
may not be born unto him.
	So, then, we say, let the education of our
girls provide for the possible problems of
self-help in the noblest possible way. The
daughters of millionairs and mechanics alike
should be made distinctly to understand
that all the love romances lie, and that there
is no such thing as making a compact with
fortune to avert the necessity of honest toil.
Nay, more, we would have the girls taught
that labor, especially brain labor, for the
benefit of the world, is too noble to be un-
dertaken for mere mercenary ends, albeit
the world must and will pay for it.
	Our American girls need a great deal of
discipline in this respect, and their fathers
and mothers need to have a great many of
their foolish notions of propriety about toil,
and the wicked caste idea it encourages,
killed as the rank social weed it is. You
will hardly find a girl who will teach
school, or a parent who will allow it, except
under the compulsion of a scanty purse.
What a shame to our Christianity is this!
A fine lady, rustling in her silks, boasts that
she has had all masters in literature and art,
has seen all the galleries of Europe, speaks
three languages, can draw from nature, and
we know not what else; and yet she would
not soil her respectibility by teaching a child
of ignorance the alphabet or hammering the
multiplication table into a class of little
know-nothings in calico! Sure enough, the
millennium has not come yet.—Balance.


﻿A LITTLE girl, not far from Schenectady,
after noticing for some time the glittering
gold-filling in her aunt’s front teeth, ex-
claimed: “Aunt, I wish I had copper-toed
teeth like yours.”
	A PAPER recently alluded to a man as a
“battle-scared veteran.” The compositor
was so agitated when the editor made him
correct it, that he changed it to “battle-
scarred” veteran. And still the veteran in
question was not satisfied.
	THERE have been several instances lately
out West of girls who have run away to join
the circus. What a joy it must be to a
gentle maiden to array herself in gauze and
spangles, and dash through paper covered
hoops, and associate with teamsters and
rowdyish circus men.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S' EXPONENT.
		LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers Woman’s Exponent,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, NOVEMBER 1, 1872.


﻿SPLINTERS.
			       —
	A New Zealand woman is accused of hav-
ing poisoned, during her life, three hus-
bands, fifteen children and a lodger......Two
freight trains collided near Newark, N. J.,
on the 15th of October, wrecking several cars
and killing a brakeman......Mark Twain has
been stopping in London with Tom Hood......
A San Francisco correspondent doesn’t think
things will alter much till we have another
flood and commence a new world on a new
principle......The Sunday liquor law is to be
enforced hereafter in Chicago......The Ger-
man Government advises its manufacturers
and exporters to send cloth of the same
quality and at the same prices as that fur-
nishedby England and France, to Japan....The
"turf" lovers of San Francisco are disap-
pointed at the slow time made by “Gold-
smith Maid” and “Occident”......The House
committee of Congress on appropriations is
to meet in Washington in November, to ar-
range the appropriation bills for the next
session of Congress......Five thousand labor-
ers on the steamship docks of Liverpool are
on a strike......An English untrained year-
ling colt sold in London lately for $10,000....
Ice sells for 12 1/2 cents a pound in Texas......
The French navy includes 50 iron-clads......
A national dog show is being organized in
Boston......Kansas City has increased to the
extent of 1,240 houses in two years......
China and Japan have this year absorbed
$26,000,000 of treasure, in adjusting their
balance of trade......Wedding cards are now
issued with the notice, “No plated ware,”
printed in the corner......A Brooklyn justice
recently dismissed the case before him and
discharged all the prisoners, because he was
too drunk to proceed with the business be-
fore the Court......Ex-Secretary Seward’s
estate, bequeathed by will to his sons and a
daughter, is valued at $200,000......“Gold-
smith Maid” trotted a mile in 2:16 3/4, the
best time on record for one mile. Mr. Bon-
ner claims that his horse “Dexter” has
beaten this time in a private trial......Mr. C.
D. Hess, the well-known theatrical manager,
has abandoned the profession and purchased
a vinegar factory in Chicago......All the can-
didates recommended by the combined
Liberal committees in Rome have been
elected......A man at Cannelton, Indiana,
has been granted a divorce from his wife
because she wasn’t as plump as she made
herself appear. Sad news!......Seventeen
Apaches, at Squaw Peak, Arizona, who,
with others, left their Reservation, were
recently killed......An assault on the
colored cadet at the Naval Academy was
followed by a summary expulsion of all
concerned therein......Harvard College has
decided not to admit ladies......Aberdeen,
Scotland, has been flooded by a terrible rain
storm......Co-operative kitchens are being
established by “Alimentary clubs,” in Paris,
on account of the high price of provisions......
Mrs. Dr. Carl Formes joins the army of
women lecturers this season......An insane
man, who was formerly an expert telegraph
operator, escaped from confinement, and his
keepers failed to discover his place of resort
until another operator identified the missing
maniac by his touch on the telegraph key
in a distant city......At a recent public ex-
ecution in Kentucky, no allowance having
been made for the age and debilitated con-
dition of the prisoner, when the drop was
sprung, the head was left suspended in the
rope while the bleeding trunk dropped to
the ground......At Susanville, Lassen Co.,
California, small stones have been washed
out which are pronounced by experts to be
genuine diamonds......Chicago has a petri-
fied baby......During the past Summer,
[new column]
Omineca, British Columbia, has scarcely
had a day without rain......Forty loaves of
bread for $1.00 is the price at Macon, Ga.....
Three thousand millions of dollars, it is
estimated, is the total capital invested in
railroads in the United States......The
Rhine, Marne and Loire have overflowed
their banks......The Deputy Sheriff of New
York lately lost track of Tweed and failed to
find him after an all night’s search......Re-
port says a man in New Albany has fifteen
daughters, but it doesn’t say whether he is
a polygamist or has any sons or not......Bul-
wer Lytton promises the lovers of romance
a now novel.....Macready, the tragedian, is
80......The concluding portion of Tennyson’s
“Arthurian Legends” will shortly be pub-
lished......The Hague Government refuses
shelter to the Jesuits expelled from Prussia
......An ex-Confederate General has joined
the Yale scientific school......The Austrian
Government is said to have prohibited the
sale of the German translation of the life of
James Fisk, Jr......W. W. Corcoran has pre-
sented the city of Washington with Powers’
“Greek Slave”......An Indian outbreak is ap-
prehended in Idaho......Bismarck prohibits
Catholic processions in the Rhenish prov-
inces.


﻿FOR PALESTINE.
				    —
	On the morning of the 26th ult. Sister Eliza
R. Snow, President of all the Female Relief
Societies, left this city by the early train, on
her way to Palestine, or the Holy Land. Her
brother, President Lorenzo Snow, of Brigham
City, Elder George Dunford and Bishop Jacob
Weiler, of this city, and Elder Anson Call, of
Bountiful, Davis County, formed the party
with which she traveled east, they all designing
to unite with President George A. Smith before
he leaves for Europe. Bishop Thomas Taylor
of this city, and daughter, left a few days be-
fore those who started on the 26th, and Elders
John Taylor and Paul A. Schettler still expect
to go. The entire party, when united, will
number some twelve or thirteen persons, and
may be absent for nearly a year. They will
bear with them the earnest prayers and best
wishes of the thousands of Latter-day Saints
in these valleys, for pleasant voyaging while
absent, and their safe return.
	We hope to be able to present the readers
of the Exponent with communications from
Sister Snow, as she can find time to write in-
cidents of the journey; and we need scarcely
say how deeply interesting such letters will
be, however brief.


﻿FALSE LOGIC.
			 	——
	On the 18th ult. a woman in this city took
poison and died. Her domestic life had been
unhappy, and from the indifference manifested
by her husband under the terrible circum-
stances, according to the evidence given at the
inquest, there is reason to believe that he
viewed the self-inflicted destruction of his wife
as more of a relief than a calamity. How far


h e was responsible for the fearful act, by his
treatment of his wife, will probably never be
known in time; but the unhappy woman fled
from a life of misery to a sudden and self-pro-
cured death. Her husband was not a polyga-
mist, nor were either of them “Mormons;” facts
which there seems little need for our stating,
for had either been different the tragic incident
would have been heralded to the world as a
natural result of “Mormon polygamy.” Sup-
pose this family to have been Methodists,
or Roman Catholics: did their domestic in-
felicity destroy any truth which either of
these religious systems possess? Did it
prove either to be a false faith? And is
their unhappiness and the suicide resulting
from it, any argument against marriage, or any
reason why people should not marry but re-
main single?
	Suicides are so common in Christian countries
that they form a prominent item in social and
criminal statistics. What would be thought of
the person who would reason, because married
persons lived unhappy and one or other of a
couple sought this terrible means of breaking
the marriage tie, that therefore marriage was a
curse to the human family? Yet reasoning of
this absurd kind is freely used relative to “Mor-
monism,” and the system of marriage which is
held sacred by the Latter-day Saints. Men and
women have their irritable moments, their
hours following rash words hastily spoken,
when regret, pain, and even anger, hold sway.
This is the result of their inability to exercise
perfect control over themselves; one of the evi-
dences that humanity is imperfect. Yet who
shall say that any ordained condition of society
is responsible for this? It only proves, as the
poet has beautifully expressed it, that “The
trail of the serpent is over us all.”
	The case which we have referred to in this
city furnishes no text, only that man can be
unkind and brutal, and woman, maddened, can
do desperate things. And had the pair been
professedly “Mormons” this would have been
the only text derivable from it. "While the
conclusion would have been certain that neither
lived according to the Gospel of the Son of
God. But one thing must be noted in connec-
tion with it. The very silence of those papers
and parties that would have seized the circum-
stance most eagerly as a powerful argument
against polygamy, had the persons been “Mor-
mons,” is an acknowledgement of the superi-
ority of “Mormon” principles, by admitting
that it would have been much more noteworthy
had it occurred in a polygamist family. While
the truth remains the same, that neither mon-
ogamy nor polygamy is free from misery where
ungoverned passion rules; while they who are
governed by correct principle, animated by
pure desires, and understand aright the relation-
ship which the sexes bear to each other and man-
kind to the Creator, will live in love, peace
and happiness, though the famly circle should
embrace one husband and fifty wives.


ENJOYMENT FOR THE YOUNG.

	One of the most pleasant and interesting 
sights we have witnessed in a long time was the
Sunday School excursion from the north part
of Utah County, to this city, on Monday, the
21st ult. The Sunday Schools of Lehi, Ameri-
can Fork, Pleasant Grove and Alpine, to the
number of over thirteen hundred, accompanied
by their Superintendents and Teachers, and by
Bishop Harrington, of American Fork, Bishop
Brown, of Pleasant Grove, and Bishop Mc-
Cullough, of Alpine, and having along the
brass bands of Lehi and American Fork,reached
this city about noon. They visited the New
Tabernacle, heard the grand organ play, looked


through the building; and then marched to the
Theatre where they enjoyed an afternoon per-
formance. At about half past four o’clock in
the afternoon they left by the cars for Lehi, a
happy-looking, satisfied, intelligent company,
having evidently much enjoyed the excur-
sion.
	This thing of providing pleasure for a large
number, mainly of young and growing persons,
is worthy of all commendation. Youth seeks
amusement as naturally as the flowers seek
sunshine, and if denied it or deprived of it, will
droop and wither as a tender plant would be-
fore a keen frosty blast. But the amusement
should be carefully planned and arranged by
more mature minds, that it may be at once a
means of instruction and enjoyment; a medium
by which intelligence can be increased and the
desire for amusement be gratified. Because
this Sunday School excursion met these objects,
feasted the young eyes and gladdened the young
hearts, while giving them a more extended idea
of what is to be seen in places away from home,
we viewed it with so much favor; and trust the
mothers of the future hope of Israel will lend
every aid in their power to the repetition of such
seasons of enjoyment and pleasure for the
growing “olive branches.”


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿PREPAYING NEWSPAPER POSTAGE.
			     —
Complaint has been made that subscribers to
the EXPONENT in Ogden have been required
to pay three months’ postage when commenc-
ing to receive their papers about a month be-
fore the postal quarter expired; and another
three months’ postage at the beginning of the
next quarter; thus making the payment of six
months’ postage for four months. We have
examined into the law on the subject, and find
that the postmaster is required to demand three
months’ postage in advance; but a subsequent
ruling on the same law, by the postal authori-
ties, decides that a person may pay for a fraction
of the quarter with the full quarter; or, in other
words, a subscriber to the EXPONENT who com-
mences to receive it a month before the postal
quarter terminates, can pay the postage in ad-
vance for four months, being the one month
and the ensuing quarter, while payment for the
one month alone could not be taken at the post
office. It may be that the postmaster at Ogden
is not aware of this ruling, but if he searches
the “Postal Record" he will find it, and all
postmasters are required to be governed by
it.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.
					   —
	THE SAD occurrence of the drowning of the
little son of Mr. L. P. Borg, in the 3rd Ward of
this city, on the 21st ult., should be another
forcible warning against carelessness, and neg-
ligence in leaving wells or other places with
the possibilities of accidents to children.
	ON FRIDAY, the 18th ult., Mrs. Bower, a
milliner of this city, committed suicide by tak-
ing laudanum, the terrible act being prompted,
it is said, by domestic unhappiness. The very
worst way to meet an existing evil, which may
be a cause of sorrow, is to rush unbidden into
eternity.
	ANY ONE who visited the Matinee on the af-
ternoon of the 21st ult., when the excursionists
from Utah county were present, could not fail
of being impressed with a sense of what virtue
and temperance can and do produce. It was a
fair representation of a little portion of the
growing strength of Israel.
	PROFESSOR DUE'S brilliant display of fire
works, given on the evening of the 24th ult., on
the Museum grounds, was a source of general


satisfaction and gratification to every one who
witnessed it. The music was good, and the
splendor of the different colored, spangling,
sporting flames, as they darted heavenward, or
whirled in rapid evolutions, was delightfully
entertaining.
	THE EFFORTS which are being made by the
Superintendents and Teachers of Sabbath and
day schools to enhance the interest of the
young of our Territory in obtaining useful
knowledge, in order that they may themselves
become useful in society, is praiseworthy and
should be continued and increased as rapidly as
wisdom and opportunities will admit; and be
aided by parents and all who are interested in
the welfare and cultivation of the growing
generation.	
	ON WEDNESDAY afternoon, 23rd ult., as Seth
Loveland, son of Colonel Chester Loveland, of
Brigham City, was returning home from Cor-
inne in a wagon, with two young ladies, one of
the ladies, who was driving the team, dropped the
reins, which Mr. Loveland attempted to regain
by reaching over the front of the wagon. He
fell, and the wheels passed over his body in-
flicting injuries so severe that he died the next
morning. The sad event has called forth many
sincere expressions of sympathy for the family,
and of regret that a fine young man should be
thus suddenly and terribly deprived of life.
	ANOTHER RAILROAD has been commenced in
Utah. The Utah Central has been a great suc-
cess, fully verifying the expectations of its
projector, President B. Young. The Utah
Southern and Utah Northern are both making
progress towards bringing the remote parts of
the Territory into railroad communication. The
American Fork line, as a feeder to the Utah
Southern, is now in operation up the canyon
nearly to Deer Creek, with its terminus at
Lehi; and a week ago ground was broken for
another branch road from the Utah Southern
to Bingham Canyon, connecting with the main
line at Sandy Station. No portion of the West
is making greater strides in desirable progress
than Utah; and yet,where would all the wonder-
ful development of the great West have been,
had it not been for the handful of Pioneers who,
a quarter of a century ago, traveled in faith,
and forced their way to the successful coloniza-
tion of these valleys?


﻿WOMAN’S VOICE.
			    ——
	BIG COTTONWOOD, Oct. 10th, 1872.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I highly appreciate your excellent paper,
which must contribute greatly to the inter-
ests of our sex here, as through it we have
the privilege of communicating our views
and aspirations and strengthening each
other in our most holy faith.
	I have been a member of the Relief Society
from its first organization here. I have been
for a long time unable to meet with the
Society, but my heart is with the Sisters
and I love them with that tender affection
which I bore for my own mother and sisters
according to the flesh. I left houses and
lands, father, mother, sisters and brothers
for the Gospel’s sake, and expect here to re-
ceive the reward promised by the Savior to
those who forsake all else for the purpose of
serving Him. I desire to be useful in His
Kingdom, all that I am and have are de-
voted to the blilding up thereof. The sub-
ject of co-operation is one of the deepest in-
terst to us. We have learned already that
union is strength, and as the “downtrodden
women of Utah” have access to every hon-
orable avocation for the purpose of enrich-
ing and enobling themselves, I see no reason
why co-operation should not be introduced
[new column]
and carried on very extensively, among
them. By means of co-operation in our
Societies we are enabled to assist in gather-
ing the poor, and sustaining them in our
midst until they can find ways of sustainiug
themselves. But great improvements can
be made by us if we are willing to be taught
and will be obedient to the requirements of
Heaven. There are many children among
us that are learning mischef for want of
proper employment. Might not schools of
a co-operative nature be instituted in con-
nection with establishments for different 
kinds of labor, silk culture, the manufactur-
ing of silk goods, and other productions, in
which children could be taught, even at a
very early age, to be useful, and still have
their regular hours for study and also for re-
creation? If you fill a measure full of wheat
of a choice kind, there is no room for seeds
of obnoxious weeds therein; and likewise,
if we see that the minds of our children are
stored with precious grains, there will be no
place in them for erroneous doctrins to
enter. I know a sister who has about
twenty acres of land which is enclosed and
as productive as any land in the Territory,
which she would gladly put into any co-
operative company of the kind, to do good;
and another who is a silk dyer, and who is
waiting for an opportunity to set up her
business. These sisters have the spirit of
co-operation. Many such, by waiting, might
accomplish a great deal of good. Father is
rich. The earth is His, the cattle upon a
thousand hills, the gold and the silver are
all His; and He would let us use His means
for the building up of His Kingdom, if we
would trust him and exercise and exhibit
good judgment. I pray for the success of
every wise and laudible undertaking.
				——		  EXCELLETE.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT :
	Why does not some one take it in hand to
have lawful marriage proven a crime and
prohibited? I should think that some of our
loving, influential, and earnest sympathizers
—particularly women who have to listen
day after day to such heartrending and
astonishing questions as “Will polygamy
ever be a crime in Utah !” might see it. If
the Lord ever commanded Adam and Eve
to multiply and replenish the earth, He
also commanded Abraham to take Hager
and by her raise up a son of whom he would
make a great nation. If the latter instance
may be proven a crime, so also may the for-
mer, for both were commanded by the same
great Lawgiver. Who can doubt that the
Alwise and Merciful God had respect unto
His daughter Hager, her prayers and de-
sires, as well as to Abraham and Sarah and
their supplications? She was one of His
children, as they were, and for her benefit
as well as theirs was the commandment
given, that she might fulfill the designs of
God concerning her, and assist in glorifying
His name. True, the Lord suffered her to
be cast out from her husband’s house, but
He did not forsake her. Neither will he
forsake women now, if they will only trust
Him, and acknowledge His dealings among
the children of men. “Will polygamy ever
be a crime In Utah !” is not half so sound a
question as one I heard asked, not long ago,
by a lady who was tired and fretted in her
domestic relations,and who was sane enough
to ask advice of one who was able to give it,
in a kind, sisterly and reasonable way. The
question was: “How long will we have to be
tried in these things?” And the answer
came pleasant and cheery, from one who
had passed the ordeal and triumphed nobly,
“Until they no longer try us.” I have more
to say on this subject, but will intrude no
further upon your space at present. 	G.


﻿				WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿MISCELLANEOUS. 
			     —
	DOCTOR Franklin said that every little
fragment of the day should be saved.
	A ST. LOUIS paper tells its readers that
“Louisville mules, after kicking the counten-
ance off their drivers, calmly haul the corpse
to an undertaker’s shop, where it can be at-
tended to.”
	THE EMPEROR of Austria has established
a Jewish theological faculty in the Imperial
University, to be equal in its rights and
privileges to the Roman Catholic and Prot-
estant faculties.
	CHILD-SELLING in Japan is carried on to
such an extent that the Government is try-
ing to suppress it. The purchase money of
a little child is only three dollars, and the
girls of fifteen years of age can be bought
for twenty.
	THE DIFFERENCE in nature was well il-
lustrated the other day at the depot. Two
sisters, met:	“O, my dear sister,” said one,
exhaustedly, as they embraced. “You’ve
been eating onions,” said the other, calmly
and fearlessly.
	A LOVING heart and pleasant countenance 
are commodities which a man should never
fail to take home with him. They will best
season his food and soften his pillow. It
were a great thing for a man that his wife
and children could truly say of him:	“He
never brought a frown or unhappiness across
his threshold.”
	FRET NOT.—“The horse that frets is the
horse that sweats,” is an old saying of
horsemen, and it is just as true of men as
horses. The man that allows himself to
get irritated at every little thing that goes
amiss in his business, or in the ordinary af-
fairs of life, is a man that, as a rule, will
accomplish little and wear out early. He
is a man for whom bile and dyspepsia have
a particular fondness, and for whom chil-
dren have a particular aversion. He is a
man with a perpetual thorn in the flesh,
which pricks and wounds at the slightest
movement; a man for whom life has little
pleasure and the future small hope.
	CHINESE ETTIQUETTE.—The Chinese “carte
de visite” is a curiosity. It consists of a
bright scarlet paper, with the owner’s name
inscribed in large letters—the bigger the
more exquisite. For extra grand occasions
the card is folded ten times, the name is
written on the right hand lower corner,with
a humiliating prefix, like, “your very stupid
brother,” “your unworthy friend who bows
his head and pays his respects,” etc., the
words “your stupid” taking the place of
“yours respectfully.” It is etiquette to re-
turn these cards to the visitors, it being
presumable that the expense is too great for
general distribution.
	A YOUNG woman recently appeared before
the Court at Liege with a demand for a sep-
aration or divorce from her husband, on the
ground that he had hired, without her con-
sent, a suit of apartments which she could
not occupy. She was informed that this
simple disregard of her wishes was not suf-
ficient ground for a divorce. The law de-
manded that she should follow her husband.
“What! the law compels me to follow my
husband?” “Certainly.” “We shall see,
then.” The lady disappeared and at once
attached herself to her husband and followed
him every step that he took for two days.
This was sufficient to attract the attention
of the whole city, for the poor husband could
no more escape her than he could his
shadow. Finally the police interfered, and
she was arrested for causing the gathering
of a crowd on the streets.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.
				—
	The first railway in Tunis has been
opened.
	In New York, 77,790 pupils attend the
public schools. 
	There are 285 iron-clad vessels in the
twelve navies of the world.
	There are 573 lighthouses on the coast
of the United States, and 22 light ships.
	Parepa Rosa has received a golden med-
al from the London Philharmonic Society.
	Since the abolition of the gallows in Iowa
there has not been a murder in that State.
	An iron church, costing $160,000, for the
town of Amron, Peru, was shipped from
New York.
	Street cars are said to run to Mount
Zion, Jerusalem, the street lamps being
lighted with gas.
	The citizens of Ohio, it is estimated, have
their lives insured to the aggregate amount
of $130,000,000.
	In Perry city, Georgia, one dollar tax is
abated for every shade tree planted by the
citizens along the sidewalks.
	An English church has been erected at
Cairo, and the Khedive of Egypt has of-
fered a site for the purpose.
	In a stone quarry at Anamoso, Iowa, I
solid block of stone,on being sawed through,
was found to contain a petrified human foot.
	SPEAKING of the climate of the Argen-
tine Republic, Professor Gould says: “A
bowl of water left uncovered in the morning
is dry at night; ink vanishes from the ink-
stand as if by magic; the bodies of dead
animals dry up instead of decomposing, and
neither exercise nor exposure to the sun’s
rays produce perspiration.”
	Shakespeare was married at 18; Dante,
Franklin and Bulwer at 24; Kepler, Mozart
and Walter Scott at 26; Washington, Napo-
leon I. and Byron at 27; Rossini, the first
time at 30 and the second time at 54; Schil-
ler and Weber at 31; Aristophanes at 36;
Wellington at 37; Talma at 39; Luther at
42; Addison at 44; Young at 47; Swift at
49; Buffon at 53, and Goethe at 57.
	A wonderful cave has just been dis-
covered in Kansas, which has a lake of pure,
clear water extending almost from the en-
trance, in a northeast direction, as far as the
sight of the discoverer could reach. He
threw stones as far as possible, and could
hear nothing but the splashing sound that
water gives echoed back to him. The
height of the roof above water is seven of
eight feet.
	West of the Mississippi river the United
States still owns 973,482,593 acres, dis-
tributed as follows: Missouri, Iowa and
Arkansas, 16,000,000; Dakota and Wyom-
ing, 145,295,284; Montana, 86,604,605; Kan-
sas, 43,148,076; Nebraska, 55,223,637; Color-
ado and Idaho, 117,800,000; New Mexico
and Utah, 224,140,000; Nevada and Arizona,
136,000,000; Minnesota, 36,876,170; Indian
Territory, 154,000,
	The total reduction of customs duties un-
der Act of Congress, June 6th, 1872, and on
tea and coffee under the Act of May 1st,
1872, on the principal dutiable articles and
manufactures, in addition to the free list, as
estimated at the Treasury Department,
amounts to $31,172,761 38. Of this sum the
reduction on tea and coffee alone amounts to
$15,893,846 67. In addition to this there is
a total reduction of interest and taxes of
$20,651,000—making a grand total of $51,-
923,761.


﻿[Written for the Exponent.]
		A PLEA FOR THE BOYS.	
	Oh, yes, I know the boys are wild,
that they use bad language and cultivate
bad habits, and, as you say, “make them-
selves a great nuisance;” but, my friend, I
don’t think the boys deserve quite so much
blame as they get. When a little fellow 
goes with his father to church, if he is well
taught, he will listen to what the speaker
says; and especially will he notice every
word which comes from the lips of his own
father. Well, if father testifies that it is
the duty of all who would wear the name of
Saints, to keep the Word of Wisdom and
follow the strict rules of temperance in all
things, and especially to abstain from hot
drinks and intoxicating beverages of all
kinds, if the boy knows nothing to the con-
trary, he is apt to think his father is a
pretty good Saint. But if father goes home
from church and sits down to his dainty cup
of tea, and after dinner lights his pipe or
cigar and lazily puffs its filthy fumes with
the air of perfect contentment which smok-
ers are apt to assume, the young philosopher
will draw sharp comparisons between pre-
cept and practice, and if he make a poor
choice, remember it is no more than his
father did. If some quiet neighborhood is
in an uproar on a fine morning through find-
ing woodracks and wagons cutting gambols
on the tops of fences and barns, and pendant
cats making hideous music, and dogs and
yearlings running wild with kettles tied to
their tails, don’t suppose that “those boys”
invented all the mischief themselves; but
rest assured that some father, uncle or other
“jolly good fellow” has been regaling the
“young imps” with spicy reminiscences of
his boyhood, and this is only the legitimate
fruit of the seed thus sown. If boys waste,
their fine powers of mind in studying how
to evade the drudgery of learning lessons,
and play tricks to puzzle and annoy the
schoolma’am, don’t forget how the old boys
boast of their proficiency in that line. Don’t 
set them down as unmitigated annoyances
unless you wish them to prove your opinion
correct. Don’t always beg them to spare
your nerves when they want a little harm-
less play at home. When I heard a father
complain that “outside influences” was too
strong for him, and it was almost more than
he could do to keep his boys under any re-
straint whatever, I could not help wonder-
ing if “inside influence” were what they
should be. Did his son ever feel at liberty
to bring a comrade home with him for din-
ner, without fear that mother’s brow would
cloud and mother’s lips be dumb while the
youthful guest remained? Or that father,
ignoring the visitor’s presence, would im-
prove the occasion to rebuke him sternly for
some boyish negligence and wound his self-
respect in the presence of his friend? Did
father ever ask his opinion or advice con-
cerning even the smallest of his affairs, to
show that he thought his son a reasonable
being and possessed of at least ordinary un-
derstanding? Did father ever make the
slightest pretense of leaning upon him as
upon his best friend, or treat him more like
a peer than a servant? Parents, I fear we
are too jealous of our authority and exercise
too much control over our boys. Would it
not be better to lay by some of this authority
and show a little more of the friend and
companion? Show a little more interest in
their personal affairs, and cultivate in them
a little more interest in ours? Do not com-
pel them to this or that course because it is
their duty to obey, but paint for them the
results of righteousness in such charming


colors that they cannot fail to choose the
right way. And above all, let our teach-
ings be more by example than by precept.
Let us follow the principles which we teach;
let our actions correspond with our words,
and then the boys cannot fail to believe us.
But so long as we recommend one course
and follow another, we cannot expect their
moral basis to be quite settled. So long as
we deny them any recreation at home, we
need not be surprised if they seek it abroad.
So long as we do not lead them into proper
courses, we cannot wonder that they fall into
improper ones. So long as we are too stern
and austere, we cannot wonder that, in their
disgust, they fly to the opposite extreme.
Admit that they have some rights, as em-
bryo citizens, which you are bound to re-
spect; and then go before to lead them into
straight paths, rather than behind, to drive.
Say very little about “authority,” and
"obedience,” but contrive so that the boys
do just as you desire, while thinking they
are having exactly their own way.
	BEAVER, October, 1872.	L. L.	D.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿A CHEERFUL HOME.
	A single word may disquiet an entire
family for a whole day. One surly glance
casts a gloom over the household; while a
smile, like a gleam of sunshine, may light
up the darkest and weariest hours. Like
unexpected flowers which spring up along
our path, full of freshness, fragrance and
beauty, so kind words, and gentle acts,
and sweet dispositions, make glad the home
where peace and blessings dwell. No matter
how humble the abode, if it be thus gar-
nished with grace and sweetness, with kind-
ness and smiles, the heart will turn laugh-
ingly toward it from all the tumults of the
world, and home, if it be so homely, will be
the dearest spot beneath the circuit of the
sun.
	And the influence of home perpetuate
themselves. The gentle grace of the mother
lives in her daughters long after her head
is pillowed in the dust of earth; and fatherly
kindness finds its echo in the nobility and
courtesy of some who come to wear his
mantle, and to fill his place; while on the
other hand, from an unhappy, misgoverned
and disordered home, go forth persons who
shall make other homes miserable, and per-
petuate the sourness and sadness, the con-
tentions, and strifes, and railings, which
have made their own early lives so wretch-
ed and disordered.
	Toward the cheerful home the children
gather “as clouds, and as doves to their
windows;” while from the home which is
the abode of discontent, and strife, and
trouble, they fly forth as vultures to rend
their prey.
	The class of men that disturb and disorder
and distress the world are not those born
and matured amid the hallowed influences of
Christian homes; but rather those whose
early life has been a scene of trouble and
vexation, who have started wrong in the
pilgrimage, and whose course is one of dis-
aster to themselves and trouble to those
around them.


﻿				[Written for the Exponent.]
		HEALTH AND HAPPINESS.
				   —
	It is generally admitted that cheerfulness
is essential to health. Many women pine
under gloomy and despondent spirits, and
thus work themselves into maladies and
nervous affections, who might otherwise be
strong, whole-souled and energetic. Under
some circumstances, it almost seems that
this cannot be avoided; yet, by taking a
proper course, it can be overcome. It may


require a severe struggle and many an ex-
traordinary effort, but an average power of
mind and tolerable strength of character,
which can be increased by earnest prayer,
will conquer; and free a person from depres-
sion of spirits and languishing debility of
body, when all the doctors and medicines
that could be procured for the purpose would
utterly fail.
	To tell of the trials and hardships through
which we are passing, and talk over the
grievances we are brought to encounter, is
not the safest remedy or surest cure for such
ailments, but rather incentives to heart dis-
ease and irratibilities of different kinds.
Neither is it wise to sit mopishly down and
brood over discontent and dismal occur-
rences in the way of life, forgetful of the
blessings all around us, which we may pos-
sess if we will only earn and accept
them when they are offered to us. But
when bitter thoughts would force themselves
upon the mind, unthinking or unkind as-
sociates introduce subjects of a disagreeable
nature, the best way to do is to dismiss all
such things in short order, without stopping
to think it impossible to help dwelling upon
them. The very excellent means for do-
ing this are so numerous and varied, and so
much at the disposal of every one, that it is
hardly worth while to mention any of them
here. But the necessity of woman’s em-
ploying these means, understanding them
and taking time, aside from other duties,for
exercising them assiduously, is a subject of
importance to many. With some, just so
much work must be accomplished in a day,
whether they feel at every step as though it
must be the last,or otherwise. While others,
feeling dull and heartsick, often with just
cause, mope around and accomplish nothing,
when with their ambition slightly aroused,
they would be abundantly able to do a large
amount of labor,benefitting themselves there-
by in many ways. Either method for get-
ting along is a mistake. Extremes are un-
warrantable and should be avoided. To
work all the time or not at all is injurious to
health of mind and body. A walk in the
fresh air, a chapter from a good book,a romp
with the babies or a sweet little song, even
if you have to sing it yourself, often in- 
creases health and happiness.			L.


REFLECTIONS.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	I have enjoyed reading your valuable
paper and would prefer to read rather than
to write. But I sometimes have reflections
which prove profitable to myself and may
interest others. I naturally love children
and always enjoy Sabbath Schools, when my
health will admit of my attendance. I left
home in May for a visit to one of the adja-
cent settlements. The change of air seemed
beneficial to my health, and I was invited
to spend the Summer, and when I found I
could make myself useful by instructing
children I gladly accepted the invitation. I
visited home too often to take a class in
Sabbath School, but went, however, as a
visitor; and on one occasion they opened the
School by singing “We are the true born
sons of Zion.” The children sang it well,
which caused my heart to rejoice in the
Spirit of the work, anticipating their future
capabilities if they continue to apply their
hearts unto wisdom, that is to love and fear
God; for we are told that “The fear of the
Lord is the beginning of wisdom.” Never
before did I feel the full weight of the re-
sponsibilities of a Sabbath School teacher.
The thought arose in my mind, would it be
of any value to be one of the true born child-
ren of Zion if not awake to one’s duty?
Were not the Jews the chosen people of
God? And yet how few acknowledged Jesus
Christ to be the Son of God! Were not the
Nephites blessed when humble and faithful
and filled with the Spirit of the Lord? But
look at the contrast when the cares of the
world engrossed their attention and caused
them to relax their hold of divine intelli-
gence from time to time, until the Lord
withdrew His Spirit and gave it to the
Lamanites, so that Samuel the Lamanite
foretold the coming of the Savior and also
concerning His death. The Book of Mormon
cites us to a parable of a vineyard, the fruit
of which became bitter and unfit for use, so
that it was necessary to hew it down, that
better might be placed in its stead. Is it
well, then, for us to spend our time in look-
ing at the faults of others except that we
may know how to shun evil and cleave unto
that which is good? Better would it
be for us to measure ourselves by the pattern
our Savior left us, that we may know how
near we come to it. This would teach us
humility and save ns from becoming bitter
in our minds, and prove a good example be-
fore our children who are in danger of being
embittered also. For the Apostle says, “If
God spare not the natural branches take
heed least He spare not thee.”
	I noticed also in the lesson, Math. 8th
chap. 11 and 12 verses, that it reads, "And
I say unto you, that many shall come from
the East and the West and sit down with
Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the Kingdom
of Heaven; but the children of the Kingdom
shall be cast out into outer darkness; there
shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.”
This is a mournful picture to look at; but is
it not profitable to see things as they are,
that we may love our children with the
right kind of love and not indulge them to
their own distruction? In all my acquaint-
ance with children I have never known one
whose attention could not be gained by read-
ing or rehearsing Bible stories; especially
when I felt to enjoy the Spirit of the Gospel
myself; and this we need in teaching the
young at home,as much as any missionary who
is sent abroad to preach the Gospel of Jesus
Christ; and with it we benefit ourselves as
well as those we instruct; and when their
attention is directed to the teachings of the
Savior, they are most easily governed. I
have sometimes said to children, “I am
sorry you did that, you should not do so,”
when they sorrowed as much as I did for
the wrong action, and this seemed to be all
the chastisement necessary.
							M. E. K.


A GOOD word is an easy obligation; not to
speak ill, requires only our silence, which
costs us nothing.	
	YOUNG persons should, above all things,
beware of beginnings, and by no means par-
ley with temptations.
	A WISE man is humble, because he thinks
of what he has yet to learn instead of
what he already knows.
	IT is one thing to wish to have truth on
our side, and another to wish to be on the
side of truth.—Wheately.
	WIT loses its respect with the good when
seen in company with malice; and to smile
at the jest which plants a thorn in another’s
breast is to become a principal in the mis-
chief.
	THERE is nothing more pitiable in the
world than an irresolute man, oscillating be-
tween two feelings, who would willingly
unite the two, and who does not perceive
that nothing can unite them.


NOTHING sets so wide a mark between a
vulgar and noble soul, as the respect and
reverential love of woman. A man who is
always sneering at women is generally a
coarse profligate, or a coarser bigot.
	LORD Bacon says, “But little do men per-
ceive what solitude is and how far it ex-
tendeth; for a crowd is not company, and
faces are but a gallery of pictures, and talk
but a tinkling cymbal, where there is no
love.”
	CARLYLE, after empting his quiver of
more satirical arrows than any brother es-
sayist, coolly says: “Sarcasm I now see to
be, in general, the language of the devil; for
which reason I have long since as good as
renounced it.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.
	We would respectfully call your attention to the
fact, that we have one of the Largest and best Stocks
of Ladies’, Misses’ and Children’s FURS in Sets, as
also Capes and Collars (separate), that will be found
in this City. Also a large assortment of Fine Shoes
of Philadelphia and California make.
	The above goods we will sell at the lowest possible
price.
						DUNFORD & SONS,
							SALT LAKE CITY.

NEW GOODS				
	Suitable for the season, in linseys, flannels, and
everything in the dry goods line; with choice
groceries, boots and shoes; and stoves, the cheapest
in town; which Ladies will do well to inspect at
						TAYLOR & CUTLER'S.
	n. 15

A PRIZE !				
      Should be in every house!
	The SINGER SEWING MACHINE!
Will do the most delicate and elegant, as well as
the strongest or plainest, sewing, in a style un-
equalled by any other Machine. Received the first
diploma at the Territorial Fair, in October last. Its
Embroidery attachment is an object of general ad-
miration.
	More of the Singer are sold than  any other
Machine. Call and see them at the Singer Sewing
Machine Department, two doors south of Eagle
Emporium, Salt Lake City.
				Z. C. M. I. General Agents.
Z. C. M. I.
	RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.
	We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
riety of our Patrons.
	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated
			SALT LAKE GLOVES.
  Children's Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty.
	While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics
of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,
Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-
set possible figure.
				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup't.
[next column]	
LADIES !
Go to Taylor & Cutler’s for Dress Goods, No-
tions, etc. Also the Cheapest Store for Family Gro-
ceries in town. Call and see.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for Woman's Exponent.

DR. W. H. GROVES,
						DENTIST,
	Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
			Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

				JOHNSON’S
		HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES !
Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-
	ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.

	BONESET PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.

	EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands,  etc. 
Price 25 cents.

	CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in 
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.

	ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills. Price 50 cents. 

	These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at

	ZION'S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,

Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.

	If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them.

	Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.

	AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.

From the Laboratory of
								J. E. JOHNSON,
								 St. George, Utah.
[next column]
	 
				WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

				A UTAH LADIES’ JOURNAL.

	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.

	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.

	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!"

	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of Woman’s Exponent, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.

	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on  leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading. 

	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.

	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In Woman’s Exponent a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.

	Woman’s Exponent will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.

	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1 Copy one year, $2.00	1 Copy six months, $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months, 9.00

	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

	Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers Woman’s Exponent, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Vol. I.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1872.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A wide room—room for improvement.
	Miss Loud is giving loud lectures on
“Woman Suffrage” in Massachusetts.
	A dangerous malady among horses has
spread with dreadful rapidity and melan-
choly results throughout the country.
	The Relief Society in Portland, Oregon,
has erected a “House” for homeless unfortu-
nates; an example worthy of notice and
imitation.
	Another terrible disaster, the burning
of the “Missouri” at sea, is recorded with
fearful pictures of suffering and death. The
accident occurred twenty-five miles from
Abaco, on the 22nd of October.
	It is estimated that about nine-tenths of
the people of Vienna live altogether in cafes
and restaurants. How will children thus
reared ever know the blessings which rests
in the memory of a “Sweet Home!”
	For the first time in the history of
American politics, women voted for Presi-
dent at the late Presidential election, and in
two or three places their votes were received,
while in others they were rejected. The
world moves.
	The next Congress will be more com-
pletely Republican in its character than any
that has met in Washington for some years.
Will it verify the hopes of Woman Suf-
ragists, and give woman suffrage to the
country? Time will tell.
	An effort is being made in France to
take the public schools out of clerical hands,
on account of the atrocious scandals concern-
ing the behavior of certain Fathers. The
marriage of Pere Hyacinthe seems to have
augmented the cause of discussion.
	James C. Crittenden, son of the late A.
P. Crittenden, is reported to have deter-
mined that Mrs. Fair should not remain in
San Francisco, after the result of the trial;
and to have been prevented from shooting
her by Mr. Tyler. He was doubtless,
“insane."
	An appropriation of $50,000 worth of
land has been made, for the establishment
of a Professorship, to be known as the
“Agassiz Professorship of Oriental Lan-
guages and Literature,” and to belong to
the University of California. The gift is
from Senator Tomkins, and is well applied.
	Miss Stride of London, has been striding
through the byways of that great City, in
the noble and highly laudable pursuit of
picking up and careing for, thus bringing
back to light and hope, poor, sorrow-stricken,
castaways, three hundred and seventy-five
of whom she has been the means of having
housed, clothed and fed, nursed and won
back to new, bright life and faith. This,
indeed, is true philanthropy.
	A man and woman in Scotland wishing
to be married and not having the requisite
funds to pay a minister, took each a handful
of meal, knelt down before a basin of water,
put the meal therein, mixing it in token that
they “would not sever till death did them
part,” took oath to this effect on a Bible, and
rising declared themselves man and wife.
A modern and economical method of getting
the matrimonial knot tied.
[new column]
	Mrs. Dr. Mary P. Sawtelle thinks that
every unmarried woman should have one
quarter section of land granted to her. She
has been successful in getting a small appro-
priation from the State Legislature of
Oregon for the encouragement and benefit
of immigrants; and has been moved to
engage in this good work by seeing thou-
sands of women whose protectors and
supporters have fallen in battle, toiling and
suffering in great cities. May her humane
exertions be well rewarded!
	On Saturday evening, 9th inst., at half-
past seven o’clock, a fire broke out in Boston,
which burned for about forty hours with
great violence, destroying over a hundred
million dollars worth of building, besides
the property in them. Coming a year and
a month after the great Chicago fire, which
it appears to have exceeded in the value
destroyed, it forces an inquiry as to the
cause not merely of the fire but of its fearfnl
spreading, setting at defiance all the means
known of for the suppression of conflagra-
tions in large cities.
	A highly interesting work is announced
as soon to be given to the public, bearing
the title of “Travels Around the World,” by
the late Hon. William H. Seward.   Olive
Risely Seward, the adopted daughter of Mr.
Seward, who accompanied him on his
journey, edits the work and gives accounts
of travels, observations and philosophical
reflections in the great Statesman’s own
words in connection with his conversations
with Presidents, crowned heads, East Indian
potentates and the Pope; of the crossing of
nearly all the mountains, oceans and rivers
in the world and the courtesies extended to
him in the countries which he visited.
	On Tuesday the 5th inst., Presidant U.
S. Grant, was re-elected to preside for
another term of four years over the United
States. The position taken by the woman
suffragists in the election campaign, the
declaration contained in the platform of the
Philadelphia Convention, and the subse-
quent action of the Massachusetts Repub-
licans, ought, when combined, to give some
assurance that woman suffrage would become
a portion of the supreme law of the land in
the next two years.  For the Republican
party, in the next Congress, can pass any
measure it pleases, and it can secure the
ratification by the requisite two-thirds of
the State legislatures of any amendment it
may propose to the Constitution.
	We clip the following from the “Cincin-
nati Commercial” of October 29th, and insert
it among Editorial Notes without further
comment: “A letter from Connecticut says:
Old Norwalk, long the Gibraltar Of Republic-
anism in Connecticut, but which was carried
by the Greeley party at the recent town
election, has still further advanced, and to-
day admitted to all the rights of an elector
Mrs. Sarah M. L. Huntington. The lady
appeared before the Board of Selectmen—
Messrs. Joseph P. Hanford, Andrew Selleck,
William H. Bauton and Henry K. Selleck,
Town Clerk, officers by law required to ex-
amine and admit all persons legally entitled
to suffrage, and demanded her rights by
virtue of the Constitution of the United
States. Her argument was clear and logical,
and could only be answered by the plea that
[new column]
in the opinion of most persons the law did
not contemplate women’s voting. Mrs.
Huntington so ably and dexterously knocked
aside this argument that the Board were
forced to the unanimous judgment that she
had proved herself equally entitled with
negroes to vote under the Fifteenth Amend-
ment, and Selectman Selleck administered
to her the customary freedman’s oath,
Her name was placed by the town clerk on
the voting list as a legally registered voter,
and nothing now can prevent her voting at
the coming election, as she is resolutely
determined to do. Thus Norwalk will be
entitled to the distinction of being the first
place in any State of the Union where a
female has been permitted to vote and
advanced to all the rights and privileges of
the American citizen. Two years ago last
April our State election occurred just as the
passage of the Fifteenth Amendment was
promulgated, and our Board admitted
negroes to vote, although they were denied
the privilege in every other town in the
State. Subsequent decisions of our ablest
lawyers confirmed the legality of that action.


﻿SABBATH SCHOOLS.
				—
Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	A great deal has been said and done of 
late by the First Presidency and others in 
behalf of Sabbath Schools. If the majority 
of parents would take greater interest in the
matter, and visit the Sabbath Schools
occasionally, it would be encouraging to
both teachers and scholars. Some may
think it onerous to go Sunday after Sunday
as a teacher to a class. But, speaking from
experience, I can say that to go with the
spirit of the Gospel is a delightful pleasure.
I have been a teacher some years, and have
never found it a loss but have been amply
rewarded. For while we thus impart the
blessings of knowledge to others we are
ourselves recipients of like blessings. If we
desire our sons and daughters to fill honor-
able positions in society, we must lay correct
foundations for them in their childhood.
Faith in God should be early and firmly im-
pressed upon the minds of our children,
that it may grow with their growth, and be
to them, in future time, a consolatory guide
to smooth life’s rugged pathway. The people
of the world seem to have lost the gift, so 
that when troubles overtake them they sink
in despair. Not so with the people of God.
Their tribulations serve only to consume
the dross, and elevate and refine the
character.
	The would-be sympathizers who draw
long faces and groan over the condition of
women in Utah, should reserve their 
sympathy for themselves and their associates.
We, as wives and mothers, honored and
blessed, seeking to ameliorate the condition
of all within the reach of their influence,
have no need of it.			   J. S. C.
	SMITHFIELD.


MISS LIVINGSTONE, daughter of the great
African explorer, has received a letter from
her father, who acknowledges having been
found by Stanley. Will the doubts in Stan-
ley-Africanus be silenced at last?


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿[FOR the Exponent.
		A MOTHER’S RESIGNATION.

Oh, rare, pale image! wrought in priceless clay;
Of faultless outline, wearing matchless grace;
Whose broad, fair brow where mind held kingly sway,
Well crowned the beauty of the tender face,
Small fingers, clasping flowers pale and sweet—
Fair emblems of the dear one’s brief, bright stay !
All, all, from gold-crowned head to slender feet.
More precious are than pearls, though only clay.

For oh, this empty casket held a soul
Most grand, yet gentle, noble, good and brave;
And that shall live while endless ages roll,
Though this dear clay must moulder in the grave.
The glad, young soul, buoyant, pure and bright,
With all the witching ways to childhood known,
Those clear, deep eyes, truth’s crystal mirrors, light
No more this world, with clouds now overblown.

The world rolls on with all its devious ways,
Its cruel pitfalls, tempests, snares and thorns,
And struggling souls who fix their fainting gaze
Upon the goal, beyond the strife and storms.
Temptations still entrap unwary feet,
And rushing floods engulf, and lions roar,
And treachery stings, still yawns the gulf deceit,
And chasms the bridge that faith can scarce span o’er,

Oh favored son! whose white and tender feet
Were not fore-doomed the flinty paths to tread,
And bleed and blister ’mid the dust and heat,
While thorny chaplet crowned the martyr head;
Thou wert admitted through a pearly door
Where dewy flowers instead of serpents twine;
Temptation lurks in wait for thee no more,
For now, beloved one, thou art God’s—and mine.

Then go, my saint, and for thy mother pray,
Whose torn and bleeding heart beats faintly on,
And aches so yearningly thy head to lay
Upon her breast, thy heart against her own—
For flesh is weak; but mother-love is strong
And deep laid as the everlasting hills;
I’d not recall thee, lest I’d do thee wrong
To wish thee subject to life’s fearful ills.

While here, I longed to see thee conquer wrong
And champion virtue, strong in honor’s might;
But oh! how many a dear and gifted son
Has failed to win the battle all must fight
Thou might’s’ have won the victor’s deathless crown
And gained thy God’s serene, approving smile.
But, fearful thought! thou might’st have faltered
	down
The depths of sin, ensnared by cunning guile.

I fear not worldy pride may win thee now,
Nor guile betray, nor flames of guilt devour;
No passions vile e’er bend thy sinless brow,
Nor deadly foes assail thee every hour.
God’s will is wiser than our frail desires,
His mercy tenderer than our purest love;
And I can yield to this since He requires, 
And name thee now, “My waiting saint above.”
									Lu Dalton.


F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
					—
			SMITHFIELD, CACHE CO., 
						Nov. 8th, 1872. 

Editor Exponent:-
	We held our Monthly meeting on the 4th
inst., of which I send you a very brief
synopsis: Meeting was opened by singing
"O God the spring of all my joys:" prayer
offered by Counselor Mrs. Mary Ainscough:
minutes of previous meeting were read and 
accepted. President E. T. Morehead then 
addressed the meeting, encouraging the
sisters to be zealous in good works. Spoke
at some length upon Sabbath schools, and
the great blessings accruing therefrom to the
rising generation. felt deeply interested in
that laudable work, exhorted mothers to
have their children in attendance at proper
time, made reference to what the Hyrum
F. R. Society had done in behalf of the
Sabbath School in that settlement, which
was highly commendable. Counselor Mary
Ainscough spoke upon the same subject;
and upon the training of our children, 
urging the necessity of setting an example
before them worthy of imitation, etc. Mrs. 
J. Grant spoke on the principle of the 
Gospel and the blessing received in yielding
obedience thereto. 
	Some articles were read from the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT which we prize very
highly. A vote was taken that we drop the 
[new column]
word Female from the name of the Society
as suggested by Sister E. R. Snow, which
was unanimous. Monthly meeting  adjourned
till the first Monday in December.
	Benediction by Mrs. N. A. Noble.
		Mrs. Jane S. Coleman, Secretary.
				_____
			Farmington, Oct. 25th, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	In Compliance with the request from
Sister Snow, to forward the proceedings of
our first meeting after seeing her notice, I
send the following. At our last meeting we
all felt to coincide with Sister Snow, and
the vote was unanimous to drop the word
“Female” from the name of our Society.
	We had a very good and interesting
meeting, the subject under consideration
being fashion and dress, to impress upon
the mothers the necessity of trying to cure
that spirit of fashion which exists among
the young daughters of Zion, at the present
time.
	I am a reader of the Exponent, anx-
iously watch for its coming, and am glad to
see it improving.
			S. J. Holmes, President.
			   _____
	From Mrs. Emily L. Hepworth, Secretary
of the F. R. Society of Oxford, Cache County,
we receive a lengthy report of a meeting held
at that place on the 22nd of October. Mrs.
M. A. Boice, who has been the President of
the Society for three years—since its organi-
zation—on account of her age and her many
responsibilities aside from those entailed
through her position in the Society, in
accordance with the advice of her husband,
presented her resignation to the sisters. A
very humble, pleasant spirit characterized
her resignation, and she blessed the sisters,
desiring to continue one with them and to
do all in her power to assist in sustaining and
strengthening the Latter-day-work. Kindly
feelings were expressed and thanks offered
to Sister Boice, for the good she had done in
the Society. Her resignation was accepted,
and on motion of Bishop George Lake, Mrs.
Sarah Cordon was chosen and sustained, by
a unanimous vote, to fill the vacancy thus
made. Sister Boice expressed warm wishes
for the success of the EXPONENT. 
				_____
	Reports of two meetings held in Ogden,
one on the 17th, the other on the 22nd of
Oct. The first was the regular semi-monthly
meeting of the Relief Society. Called to
order by President Mrs. J. S. Richards;
prayer by Mrs. Martha Bingham. The
minutes of the two preceding meetings
were read by the Secretary and acccepted. 
Sister Richards made remarks. She was
pleased with the carpet which had been
made by the Society, it had received much
praise both here and at Salt Lake City: She
had enjoyed herself much at Conference, had
visited and been instructed by Sister Snow. 
The motion was made and seconded that we 
leave off the prefixture of Female from the
name of the Society. Carried unanimously. 
An article concerning the name, was read
by sister H. C. Brown from the EXPONENT. 
Remarks were made by Martha Bingham,
Sarah Herrick and A. M. Frodsham. An
especial meeting was appointed for the fol-
lowing Tuesday, at, which, Sister E. R. 
Snow, her example as a faithful and energetic
Saint and her approaching jonrney to Jeru-
salem were to be topics for consideration.
Secretary A. M. Frodsham requested the
sisters to subscribe for the EXPONENT, and
meeting was dismissed by Sister Richards. 
							Oct. 22. 
	The sisters met according to adjournment, 
sister J. Richards presiding. Several sisters
[new column]
from Marriott and Lynn settlements were
present. Prayer offered by Sister Bicking-
ton. Singing “We thank thee, O God, for
a Prophet.” Sisters Bickington, Baird and
Tracy addressed the meeting. President J.
S. Richards spoke of the faithfulness and
untiring diligence of Sister Snow. Considered
her pattern for us all. She was pleased with
the interest and anxiety manifested by the
sisters to do good. Sister Mitchell from S.
L. City said she appreciated Sister Snow,
had often had the privilege of listening to
her wise counsel and been thereby. blessed
and edified. Further remarks were made
by J. S. Richards and Counselor H. C.
Brown. Sincere feelings of love and respect
for Sister Snow, and blessings on her, were
warmly and generally expressed. Meeting
adjourned for two weeks. Prayer by A. M.
Frodsham.
			____
		WILLARD, Nov. 3, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT.—
	Our Society was organized the 25th of
April 1868, and since that time has been the
means of doing much good, in feeding the
hungry, clothing the poor, and administer-
ing to the sick. Our President, Sister Mary
Ann Hubbard, is a woman full of faith and
good works, and is ably assisted by her
Counselors, Sisters Hellen C. Wood and Mary
Harding. The sisters are united and feel
well, always willing to assist in anything
that is required of them. At a Sewing
Meeting, held on Thursday, Oct. 31st, the
motion was carried to drop the word Female
from the name of the Relief Society. I
pray that the Lord will bless the endeavors
of all in their desire to do good.
			Hannah Cook, Secretary.
				____
	A very brief report from Mrs. Sarah H.
Crosbey, Hebron, Washington Co., shows
that a re-organization of the Relief Society
in that settlement, took place on the 19th
ult., that a working meeting was held on the
2nd inst., and that the Society is a small but
prosperous one.


﻿A Wisconsin man lent his cook a $150
watch to know when to get his dinner, and
hasn’t seen the cook or time-piece since.
	The Washington clergymen are protest-
ing against Sunday funerals, and doctors are
requested to regulate demises accordingly.
	While the population of Russia has in-
creased five fold in the last century and a
half, that of the United States has increased
forty fold.
	A California paper says that during a
recent earthquake in that State a man made
an involuntary exchange of his farm for a
fish pond.
	There are four lady students in Middle-
town College, members of the freshman
class. Three of them had previously been
repulsed at Amherst.
	Mrs. Scott-Siddons, the well known
reader, is thought by some connoisseurs
quite the best living interpreter of charac-
ters in which the elements of tenderness,
pity and woe are conspicuous. She was born
in India, in 1844. Her father died when
she was quite young; then her mother
returned to England, and afterward went to
Germany to educate her two precious
daughters. She first appeared as an ama-
teur actor in a private dramatic entertain-
ment, when only eleven years old, and filled
all who saw her performance with wonder at
her talent and promise. She was trained for
the stage, made her debut in London, in
1867, and gave her first reading in this
country at Newport, in 1868. Since her first
appearance before the public, she has filled
a leading place in the histrionic profession.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
				—
	THE SIMPLE truth is, that, unless women
have a routine of duty that diverts their
thoughts from themselves, and gives them
something to think of besides dress and the
exhibition of it, they degenerate. The only
cure for this that we know of, is universal
housekeeping. There is no man who can
afford to pay a fair price for board, who can-
not afford to keep house; and housekeeping,
though it be ever so humble, is the most
natural, and the healthiest office to which
woman is ever called.
	The devil always finds work for idle hands
to do, whether the hands belong to men or
women; but American men are not apt to
be idle. They are absorbed in work from
early until late, and leave their idle wives,
cooped up in rooms that cost them no care,
to get rid of the lingering time as they can.
Is it kind to do this, or is it cruel? If it is
kind in its motives, it is cruel in its results.
The whole system of boarding-house and
hotel life is vicious. To live in public, to be
on dress parade every day, to be always part
and parcel of a gossiping multitude, to live
aimlessly year after year, with thoughts
concentrated on one’s person and one’s
selfish delights, to be perpetually without
a routine of healthy duty, is to take the
broadest and briefest road to the degrada-
tion of all that is admirable and loveable
in womanhood. It is to make, by the most
natural process, that gay, gaudy, loud, frivo-
lous, pretentious, vain, intriguing, unsatis-
fied, and unhappy creature which the
Englishman knows as the “New York
woman.”—“Scribner’s Monthly.”
	The above is certainly well adapted to the
position of ladies belonging to fashionable
society. Our country girls and farmers’
wives would be likely to say, that Ameri-
can women are no more apt to be idle than
American men; but such ones see and know
but little of the vanity and worthlessness
which constitute the lives of fashionable
women, and which is being over fed and
continually encouraged by fashionable men,
even while they cry out against it.
	IRON RUST may be removed by salt mixed
with a little lemon-juice.
	REMOVE MILDEW dipping in sour but-
termilk, and laying in the sun.
	A LITTLE oil of cloves poured into a bottle
containing gum mucilage prevents it from
souring. 
	A SOLDER for uniting steel to brass, and 
one which adheres perfectly to both and is
not affected by the unequal dilution of the
two metals, is composed of three parts of
tin, thirty-nine and a half parts of copper,
and ten parts of zinc. 
	PEAS A LA BOURGOISE.-Put your peas, 
which should not be old, into a clean stew-
pan with butter, in the proportion of half
a pound to a quart of peas; add the heart
of a good, large lettuce, a bunch of parsely, 
a few small onions, and a pinch of salt; let
them stew together slowly till done; thicken
before serving with a little butter and flour;
add a little white sugar in powder, and
serve. Some cooks thicken with the yolks
of two eggs instead of flour. 
	A NICE way to bake sour apples is to dig
out the cores, place the apples in a deep tin, 
fill the cavities where the cores come out
with sugar, pour a cup of hot water in the
tin and bake in a quick oven; you will have
a healthful and palatable dish. 
	HOUSEHOLD BREAD, for large families.-
Mix fourteen pounds of flour with six
pounds of mealy potatoes, previously well
mashed; add three teaspoonfuls of salt and 
[new column]
make a dough with water; then work
it well with four teaspoonfuls of yeast, and
after three or four hours bake it.
	TRANSPARENT POMADE.—Take sperma-
ceti, two ounces; castor oil, five ounces;
alcohol, three ounces; oil of bergamot, half a
drachm; oil of Portugal, half a drachm. Melt
together the spermaceti and castor oil, pour
in the alcohol by degrees, stop the heat and
add the oils; stir well to incorporate, and
pour into glass jars. Flavor to suit.


﻿[Written for the Exponent.
WHERE SOCIAL REFORM MUST ORI-
			GINATE.
			    —
	In the present age of the world we enjoy
countless advantages over all that have gone
before us, in the comforts and conveniences
which the grasping, comprehensive mind of
man, with the blessing of God, continually
brings to light, but with the multiplied
wants, and puny strength of the present
day, each new invention to economize time
and toil seems only just sufficient to enable
man to exist until something more can be done
to lighten his grievous burdens. His com-
plicated and numberless bodily ills drag
him down like an incubus, and chain his
mind to the dust when it should surmount
the clouds. Men of intellect and learning
spend their lives concocting drugs with
which to combat the multiplicity of diseases
which prey upon humanity, and humanity
blindly, recklessly, swallows all, patent pills,
quack nostrums, and, above all, ardent
spirits in the form of bitters and tonics,
which last still further inflame those gross
animal passions which, all admit, are, in
their unchecked career the root of nine-
tenths of these debilities. It is acknow-
ledged that excessive indulgence has robbed
man of his primitive vigor and given rise to
a long train of frightful diseases which will
continue to afflict the race until means can
be used to end them. The sooner this is
done the better, and the trouble must be
met boldly.
	It is useless to cry out against social de-
pravity and deplore its evil work and
never lift a weapon against it. It is
equally useless to fight against remote
conseqlittlees and have the ruling cause
untouched. Why cannot men learn the folly
of battling against effects, while nurturing
aud fostering causes? Why bewail the
work of the destroyer in desolated homes
and the blighted promises of many a fair
young life, and call on the strong arm of
vengeance on the head of the evil doer; and
still purge not the hidden springs of iniquity,
and ignore the fact that those same mourn-
ing households have contributed, and still
contribute their mite, to the deep fountain
of that deadly poison which creeps insidiously
through society, the highest and the lowest,
over on the alert for its prey, here and there
fastening its fangs upon the most promising
in the land, never relaxing its hold until it
has devoured, not the body only, but the
usefulness, the peace, the soul of its victims?
And why be slaves to physic, seeking by its
unaided strength to overcome disease of
body and mind, while moral or rather im-
moral causes are daily originating new
phases of suffering? The source of disease
being sin, it must receive mental and moral
treatment. It is not enough that the vigi-
lant eye of the law is ever watchful to detect,
and its strong right hand ever uplifted
to punish crime; these measures deal only
with effects, cropping here and there a twig
from the great tree of immorality. But its
weapons are too short to reach the great,
strong trunk which is no more disturbed by
[new column]
the clippings than a strong oak by the
pruning knife. No! the strength of social
crime lies far beyond the verge of legal
jurisdiction, and at its safe distance, mocks
its futile endeavors. Then where shall we
look for its antidote, and whence is our
deliverance to come? It is plain that the
fountain of sin must be cleansed before the
stream will run clear. But where shall we
look for this fountain? Social evil does not
derive its strength and perpetuity from those
miserable libels on “the Image of God” who
unblushingly avow their infamy, and are
shunned as lepers by respectable citizens,
for they, poor, miserable, comfortless
wretches—as we know them—create far less
evil in the world than is laid to their charge.
It is where they cannot enter; where peace-
ful, law-abiding citizens dwell, that the
seeds of crime are planted and nourished
until they “can be no longer hidden,” and
then spewed forth to go abroad fulfilling
their dreadful mission. Look to it, you
fathers who “live above the law,” and
piously bewail the depravity of the world,
that you are not secretly giving aid and
sustenance to that very cause by giving full
license to those appetites which cannot be
said to degrade man “to the level of brutes,”
since brutes, without the aid of Reason and
Religion, do strictly observe the laws of
Nature. Oh, you honest citizens! do you
degrade yourselves “below” the brutes by
disregarding Nature’s laws in your own
homes, and seeking only your own sensual
gratification, persistently closing your eyes
to the fact that thus you perpetuate and foster
a low tone of morals, and send abroad into
the world, exaggerated types of your own
depravity, to carry their pestilential presence
and shameful deeds everywhere? Do you
honestly acknowledge to your accusing con-
sciences when your sons give themselves
up to evil excesses that your own ways of
life have been their ruin? Do you ever repent
in secret anguish that you did not exercise
your divine right of sovereignty over your
own inferior passions and lead instead of
following them, exercising them only with
a fixed and holy purpose, as a sower scatters
grain in the spring? This is where social
reform must originate. When you do this,
oh, fathers and mothers, and forsake the use
of stimulants, you shall have the proud
assurance that your sons and daughters will
never be unresisting victims to those detest-
able passions which are the prolific source
Of bodily suffering and mental anguish in
this sin-weltering world. This course will
restore man’s primitive vigor, and class as
entire gain instead of mere necessities, the
wonderful inventions of genius. This will
strike the heart of social evil and give law
no subjects on which to waste its idle
strength, and rob the countless swarms of
quacks of their victims whose own sins
place them helpless in their power. And
fail not to remember, oh, parents! that as
you are responsible for the existence of
deathless beings, so you are responsible for
their dispositions; and that through them,
your secret thoughts are brought to light;
and do not dare ignore your responsibility,
nor use irreverently your fearful, your
wonderful powers.			L. L.	D.


There are two things in this life for
which people are never prepared, and they
are twins.
	A prosperous merchant has for his motto:
“Early to bed, and early to rise; never get
tight and advertise.”
	For the Centennial of American inde-
pendance, Philadelphia will erect a building
that will cover fifty acres of ground.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		LOUISE E. GREENE, Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers Woman’s Exponent,
						Salt Lake, City, Utah.
		SALT LAKE CITY, NOVEMBER 15,1872.


﻿SPLINTERS.
				—
	The electric Train (George Francis,) ac-
cuses Grant of having been in partnership
with Tweed, Connolly and Sweeney in the ’68
Horatio-Seymour sell-out “fiasco.”......"Lit-
tle Cordelia Howard,” the original Eva in
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” is married and a
mother.......Cologne is the wealthiest city on
the river Rhine......A railroad is being con-
structed in Scotland, by the Duke of Suther-
land, at his own cost......Sacramento has
rescinded its laws against games of chance,
owing to a great influx of rich sporting men,
and gambling increases in popularity in
that city......Provisions are made for the in-
surance of $10,000,000 of stocks, in shares
of $10 each, in the bill appointing commis-
sioners from each State and Territory to
conduct the Centennial celebration of Inde-
pendence Day at Philadelphia in 1870.......
The Persians will not admit a Frank into
their public baths, but openly assert that he
would defile them......Servia is the only
State in Europe where the barbarous
punishment of breaking on the wheel is in-
flicted on criminals.......One of the late
sensations is the alleged discovery of an
island of gold in the Caribbean Sea.......
Pioche is to have a new theatre built.......A
young Polish girl was recently beaten to
death by the Russians, for expressing her
love for her country.......French journals say
Paris has never before been so full of Ameri-
cans as now......Persian ladies are said, to
paint themselves out of all semblance of any-
thing human or divine......The people of
Nevada complain of the extortionate prices
charged by the Railroad companies, for
transportation of freight and passengers......
From twenty to thirty priests marry every
year in the diocese of Paris alone...Miss
Faithful, now lecturing in this country, holds
the position of “printer and publisher in
ordinary” to Queen Victoria......Secretary
Seward was in full possession of conscious-
ness, and realized his situation to the last
moment of his mortal life......America has
fifty new novels this fall......Some of the
grandest Paris avenues are almost filled with
resident American families......Des Moines
bids for the next Iowa State fair.........A
recent marriage between a Russian gentle-
man and an American lady, was commenced
in the Russian church, at Paris, continued
at the Russian legation, .and finished at the
American legation.......“George Sand” is
going to lecture in Holland and Belgium......
The marriage of a priest, or a man who has
ever taken “orders,” is null in France, and
children born of it are considered illegiti-
mate.......Thousands have been rendered
homeless and many lives have been lost, in
Italy, through the damages done by the
overflow of the Po and other rivers......Three
hundred fathers of families, in and about
Bordeaux, France, have taken their children
from the public school and refused to let
them return while the school remains under
ecclesiastic control......In some places in the
provinces of Mantua and Ferrara, Italy, the
water from the inundation of the river Po,
reaches the roofs of the highest buildings....
An old man, 72 years of age, at Crown
Point, Indiana, is supposed to have lain
down from exhaustion while walking
through a hog pasture, a short time since,
and to have been literally eaten up by hogs......
New York contains over a hundred thousand
Scandinavians.......Anna Dickenson will not
grant that Horace Greeley does not approve
of woman suffrage......A steamer and tow-
boat lately collided near the wharf at Pitts-
burg, the former being so badly injured that
she sank soon afterward.......Froude, the
English Historian, considered himself in-
[new column]
sulted by receiving an invitation to a party
where Mayor Hall figured conspicuously, in
England Froude would be called a “muff.”
......Miss Faithful has not been associated with
the general body of Woman Suffragists in
England, but has, it is said, worked by her-
self in her own way......For married women
to retain their maiden name is a Dutch
custom.......The old wooden bridge across
the Delaware river, at Trenton is to be
replaced by an iron one at a cost of $500,000.
......The Licensing Act for closing the drink-
ing saloons of Liverpool at 9 o’clock on Sun-
day night has been enforced, and caused
considerable excitement......Indianapolis and
many of the Eastern cities are building
bridges or tunnels over or under their great
railroad crossings, as a protection to travelers
on foot or drawing teams.......Froude says
there is a capacity for the endurance of suf-
fering beyond example among the Irish
peasantry......TheNew York “Nation" says that
the Attorney General of New York made
arrangements to let notorious criminals
escape prosecution, on their consenting to
pay money towards one of the candidates
in the presidential contest.


﻿PHILOSOPY AND PROPHECY

	When the great Chicago conflagration was
held to be a judgement—one of those which
the prophecies have said should be poured out
upon the nations for their wickedness—the be-
lief so expressed was met with sneers of the
most violent kind, and the idea was denounced
as puritanical and fanatical in the extremest-
degree. In fact so wide-spread is the infidelity
of the present day, that to recognize the hand
of the Almighty in anything is held to be
fanatical and puritanical. The world of Chris-
tians have turned philosophers, and their
philosophy does not recognize God. It finds a
cause for everything without the intervention
of Deity; and, when narrowed down to a point,
popular religion now is a faith that does not in-
clude a belief in the existence of an Omnipotent
power at all.
	Last Saturday night another calamity like
the Chicago one burst upon the City of Boston.
For over forty hours the flames raged beyond
control, sweeping awy building after building
constructed of materials usually held to be fire-
proof. An exchange says:
	The same astounding results of intense heat
witnessed in the Chicago conflagration were
demonstrated in this. Granite buildings per-
ished almost instantaneously, crumbling to
powder as though they had been simply consol-
idated blocks of ashes or sand. Great masses
of stone burst into fragments, as if split by
blasts of nitro-glycerine, and the air seemed
full of deadly missiles, threatening destruction
to any one who attempted to stay the riotous
progress of the destroying flames.
	And of the Chicago fire a gentleman who
witnessed the awful conflagration says that
blazing beams of wood were carried long dis-
tances, as if invisible bands were at work to
so spread the agent of destruction. Forty years
ago the people of New York, Albany and
Boston were warned by the Lord through His
servants that His wrath would be poured out
upon them unless they repented. But who
would expect New York with its wealth, its
power, and its pride, to repent? And who
would look for the intellectual and haughty
Boston to think that it needed repentance? It
may seem harsh and almost inhuman to speak
thus of a terrible calamity while the sympathies
of the nation are turned towards the city that
has suffered so much. But would the surgeon
be humane whose sympathies prevented his
advising cauterization where a rabid dog had
bitten a human being? It will be said, and
justly, that this visitation, like all others of the
same kind, has swept away the last stay in life
of the good as well as of the bad. Probably
as in the Chicago fire the dwellings of the worst
women who live in Boston have not suffered.
But were they the wickedness of that city?
Who made them things of crime and shame?
Who drove them to degradation and ruin?
Let the men who occupy palatial buildings an-
swer.
	Philosophy seizes minute details and hypo-
critically asks explanation; while prophecy
deals with generalities, and warns a people
beforehand. Philosophy calls for an analitical
investigation of the causes which produce such
a calamity; prophecy foretells the evil and
warns a people against it. For years the
Almighty has warned this and other nations,
but His warnings have been laughed at and
disregarded. He has said that after the warn-
ing of His servants He would send earthquakes,
the sea breaking beyond its bounds, the voice
of the tempest, and the power of Jehovah
made manifest in great storms and tribulations
coming upon the earth. All these things are
of daily occurrence.  Weekly the inhabitants
of the earth are startled with accounts of
calamities which frighten and appal; yet
philosophy accounts for them while prophecy
is never considered. And apparently thus it
will be until the great consumation shall have
been effected, and the few having faith in God
shall see and experience the power of His
salvation.


﻿A FIXED AIM.
				—
	PEOPLE who have fixed aims in life, work
more persistently and, with better heart than
those who have nothing to look forward to, and
no distinguishing feature in their daily avoca-
tions. An ordinarily industrious person will
become so engrossed In a pursuit that little
disappointments will be heedlessly rushed by in
the determination to accomplish his or her ob-
ject, where a certain design is in view. The
same organization of humanity, having con-
ceived no bright hopes of a glorious success and
a brilliant future, will be overcome by the
merest  trifles in the way of discouragement,
and often relinquish a point when it has been
almost obtained with scarce an effort, becaus
some little obstacle appears in the way. It i
well to set out early in life, with a fixed pur-
pose. Better to strive for something, even if
disappointed in reaching the mark set up as a
guiding star, at the point first anticipated, than
to be an aimless sluggard, passing through the
world with nothing to strive for, nothing to
hope for, nothing for which to live.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.
				     —
	PRESENT INDICATIONS are that more benefit
is likely to accrue from the Sabbath Schoois,
taught in the various Wards in this City, under
the new system of holding Sabbath Schools
and meetings, than has been realized heretofore.


As no Sabbath meetings are to be held in the
Tabernacle during the Winter, and the fore-
noon is to be devoted to Sunday Schools in
each Ward, opportunities are offered for a
much larger attendance at these schools.
Superintendents and teachers will seek the as-
sistance of elders who have the faculty of
imparting intelligence, to form and instruct
classes of youths in any or all useful branches
of education, but particularly in the principles
of the Gospel. Sacrament and evening meet-
ings will also be conducted in the meeting
houses of the different Wards.
	THE PHYSIOLOGICAL Class, under the super-
vision of Mrs. Sarah E. Kimball, is progressing
finely. Books appropriate for students com-
mencing the study of Physiology have been
ordered and received, and may be obtained by
application to Miss Mary E. Cook at the school-
room, the Social Hall.
	AMONG THE recent deaths which have occur-
red in this City, we note that of Sister James
S. Brown as one of the most affecting. Her
example as a true daughter, sister, wife and
mother, and a faithful Latter-day Saint, her
acquaintance testify.
					—
	WE WILLINGLY give place to the following
obituary notice which has been forwarded to us:
	Father Daniel Stanton was a soldier, in the
war of 1812. He has filled many responsible
positions in the Church and for his country
honorably. He leaves a numerous family to
mourn their bereavement. His loss is felt by
the community in which, for some time, he
filled the office of Judge and Justice of the
Peace, until last August. He was born May
28th, 1795, in Onondago, New York. Father
Morley, Daniel Stanton, etc., etc. and their
families were living as one; or in the Apostolic
Order. Joseph Smith’s first Elders said they
were sent there. Father Stanton was the first
to believe and confess it. Parley P. Pratt bap-
tized him. He had lived 77 years, 9 months and
29 days.
	ON FRIDAY, the 9th inst., a company of ladies
and gentlemen, by invitation of President B.
Young, enjoyed a ride to the Promontory and
back again, a distance of 180 miles, behind the
new locomotive which has been built for the
Utah Central Railroad. The weather was fine,
much of the scenery and road, including where,
for some distance, the latter is cut through
solid rock, was new to many of the excursion-
ists; and, altogether, the undertaking to have
a little season of pleasurable entertainment was
a quiet success, as all such excursions are when
properly arranged.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.

	Miss E. R. Snow writes from Chicago, under
date Oct. 30, 1872:
	My trip thus far has been very satisfactory.
In crossing the plains, I frequently drew the
contrast between the present and the past, and
could hardly realize the present to be a living
reality. To travel with ease, devoid of fatigue,
in three days, a distance which a few years ago
required more than three months of weariness
and privations to accomplish, is certainly a
very great change. 	*	*	*	I took an
earnest glimpse of the beautiful, stupendous
bridge as we crossed the Missouri river. It is a
piece of workmanship worthy of a critical day-
light observation.
	We left Council Bluffs in the midst of one of
those thunder-storms so common to that local-
ity, beyond the necessity of artificial irrigation.
It was 9 o’clock at night, but what were the
night and the storm to us! Instead of pitching
tents and circling beneath a dripping roof, we
were comfortably seated in a palace car and
traveling at an almost incredible speed. So
much for the blessings of God on the march of
improvement. These night travels cheat us of
many pleasurable scenic views, a tax which
time-saving naturally brings.
	At the Bluffs we took the Rock Island route
to Chicago, and arrived at R. I. City where we
breakfasted, and took a hasty view of the stir-


ring, beautiful place, with the railroad bridge—
one in progress of erection—all curiosities to
one as little acquainted with railroads as my-
self. The scenery from Rock Island to Chicago
is varigated, and as seen while passing, as we
did, at times at the rate of nearly a mile per
minute, is very delightful; one characteristic
worthy of notice, being the freshness of verdure
in comparison to what we had previously
passed.
	We arrived here last evening at 4 o’clock, and
the missionaries to Europe left on the 5 o’clock
train for New York.	*	*	* 	My health
is good, and my heart full of gratitued. Sister
Mercy R. Thompson joins in love to all our
good sisters.	
						ELIZA R. SNOW


[Written for the Exponent.]
		A WORD ON OBEDIENCE.

	Children of the Saints, what are your as-
pirations? Would you like to be great and
honorable and distinguished men and
women? Let me tell you how to become so.
It all depends on your obedience and faith-
fulness. Be obedient to your parents,
honor them and learn to be punctual in
every thing. These are the foundations to
build upon, then it will not be hard for you,
as you grow older, to obey the counsel of God
which is given to man. When you see a
disobedient child you will see an unhappy
one. If a child has a rebellious spirit and
acts contrary to his parents’ wishes, he feels
ashamed to meet those parents, and if he is
made to comply he is angry and sullen and
you will often hear such ones say, “I wish I
was dead for I am never happy,” On the
other hand, you see one who is willing to be
lead by his father or mother, and you find
one who is contented and happy and joyful.
Such ones grow up a joy and comfort to their
parents, an ornament to society, and a bless-
ing to the world. And now, my sisters, if
we have not learned this great lesson, it is
high time, that we began to school our minds
in obedience to the commands our Father
has given us, for our exaltation and happi-
ness. Often when we feel as though
we could not endure what we are called to
pass through, it is partly because of a diso-
bedient spirit and our self-will, and we feel
like the disobedient child, we wish we were
dead, we are so unhappy. When if we will
bring ourselves to feel—“It is the will of
my Father; He has commanded; it is His to
command, mine to obey;” joy will spring up
in our hearts, and we will be cheerful and
happy. This is my experience.
						 A MOTHER.


[For the EXPONENT.
	CO-OPERATIVE AMENDMENTS.
				 —
	How absurd and ridiculous the ideas
advanced by some of our Woman Suffragists
are! For instance, says one "woman’s-
rights”-man, speaking of woman: "She has
been continually anathematized and tor-
mented with the idea that she is the ‘weaker
vessel.’ Her father, brother and husband
have always told her that her mind was
weak and small, and that she could not com-
prehend great things, nor do great works.
Sometimes, her mother and sister are joined
in this wholesale slander of the female mind.
When a little girl she has been paralyzed
with the thought of her inferiority. *  *  * 
How could woman be anything with the
whole world against her?” As though
woman has never been anything! Woman
is to a large extent responsible for this “per-
secution" and “oppression" to which she
has been subjected by men. She has been
too willing to have something to lean on,
some one to look up to, and to do the conse-
quential parts in providing for herself and
her offspring. But has she been nothing


and done nothing for the world? Is it
nothing to have been the-mother of all the
great men and women? I think it is con-
siderable in woman’s favor. And I also
think that it is right for her to improve and
elevate her condition in every legitimate
way, and thus become a nobler and wiser
mother of purer and better beings. In
making these amendments, every sensible
and good man will, I am convinced, assist
and encourage her, and glory in her earnest
and spirited resolutions. There is no true
man but what has the highest appreciation
of her merits or .that ..would not sacrifice
more for her welfare and happiness than he
would for his own.
								INEZ.


﻿For the EXPONENT
	WHY BLAME THE GIRLS?
			  —
	Is it fair to accuse all young ladies with
the follies and nonsense of indulging in the
false pride and vain imaginings which
characterize the great portion of society at
the present day, and still hourly increase?
A short time since, a worthy gentleman
remarked something like the following:—
“If a young man would like to marry a girl,
he dare not tell her of it; for when a girl
gets married now-a-days, she wants a piano,
a Brussels carpet and furniture to match, a
horse and buggy, thinks she must dress in
the nicest style, and have two hired girls to
wait on her." These suggestions are closely
applicable to a large majority of our girls, it
is true, but there are exceptions; and what
is more, the other side of the picture was
not drawn. Yet no one who is at all
acquainted with the present condition of
society, could justly condemn the following
portrait as being incorrect, so far as it ex-
tends:  If a young lady is asked to marry,
she dare not say “yes,” for a young man
now-a-days can scarcely be met in any-
position in society but he has a cigar in his
mouth, his face is flushed with wine, and to
judge from his manner of deportment, he
considers himself superior in every sense of
the word to most people, and would not
marry a girl whom he thought inferior in
the least respect to any one but himself.
What reasonable girl feels herself capable of
filling the position of wife satisfactorily to
such a being, even if she did not shrink
from his habits of intemperance? Let the
young men reform and see if the girls will
not be on hand to assist them.
							A GIRL.


It doesn’t matter how watchful and vigi-
lant a girl is; if a rude fellow kisses her, it
is ten to one he will do it right under her
nose.
	To accept the statements of the partisan
press on both sides, the two very worst men
in the United States are the candidates for
the Presidency. Such is partisan politics.
	Some people are as careful of their troubles
as mothers are of their babes; they cuddle
them, and hug them, and cry over them,
and fly into a passion with you if you go
to take them away from them; they want
you to fret with them, to help them to be-	
lieve that they have been worse treated
than anybody else. If they could, they
would have a picture of their grief in a
gold frame hung over the mantle-shelf for 
everybody to look at. And their grief makes
them ordinarily selfish—they think more of
their little grief in the basket and in the
cradle than they do of all the world besides
and they say you are hard-hearted if you
“dont fret.” “Ah! you don’t understand
me—you can’t enter into my trial!”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿TO STRANGER FRIENDS. 
			    —
Stranger Sisters, kindly caring,
For a lone one in distress,
Neither time nor int’rest sparing
that would serve to soothe and bless;
May the light of Heaven never
Cease across your path to shine;
But the grace of God, forever,
Yield you strength and power divine.

Have ye wand’ring sons or brothers?
May they meet with friends as true,
Finding at the hands of others
That which ours receive from you. 
While this prayer is but a token
Relevant, deep thanks accord,
Other thoughts must rest unspoken
With the future and the Lord.
							L. L,


THE SEX.
			      —
	The “World” speaks of that “maudlin and
murderous hag, Mrs. Fair.”
	Rosa Bonheur’s last painting is a tiger
fighting a hyena. It is said to be her master-
piece.
	At Mankato, Minn. a woman was accused
of throwing a baby into the river. The
river was raked by an incensed community
and a dead cat brought to light.
	A woman in Fond du Lac, Wisconsin, has
sent the saloon keepers there, a bill of $200,
being the amount legally due her for a
pounding inflicted by her husband.
	An exchange says that Miss Sabone
Kornell, of Little Camplon, R. I., is en route
to Omaha on foot. She had arrived at Terre
Haute, Ind., at last accounts, and was then
healthy and hopeful.
	A Boston lady, but eighteen years old,
named Avonia Bonney, made a highly suc-
cessful debut at the Balbo Theatre, Turin,
a few weeks ago. She appeared in a new
opera by Joseph Boszelli.
	The New York “Tribune” is very ungal-
lant and alludes exultingly to the discomfiture
of mothers and daughters who have been
“angling” this Summer at the various water-
ing-places with such poor success. Their
failure is accounted for by the somewhat
worn theory that the poor but honest young
men are frightened away by the display of
extravagance on the part of the frivolous
young ladies.
	A little girl in a New York Orphan
Asylum quarreled with another girl and
scratched her face. For this she was
punished and required to learn and repeat a
verse from the Bible, being allowed her own
selection. She chose the first verse of Psalm
44, which runs as follows: “Blessed be the
Lord my strength which teacheth my hands
to war.and my fingers to fight.
	Molly Strong, of Newton, Michigan,
dug a well forty feet deep last summer, and
received one hundred and thirty dollars
from her father therefor. Then a lot of fel-
lows went fooling around after Molly, and
wanted to marry her; but she pensively
kicked them outdoors, with the remark
that she “wasn’t going to take fellers who
wanted her just because they found out she
could work like a horse.”
	The Princess Salm-Salm has entered a
Catholic convent at Innspruck in the Tyrol.
The Princess is an American by birth, a
Miss Agnes Leclerq, of Baltimore, and her
romantic adventures in Mexico, six years
ago, filled the newspapers of the time. She
saved her husband’s life in Mexico, and got
him restored to his military rank in Ger-
many. He was killed at Gravelotte, at the
head of his regiment, She was at one time
a circus rider, and her career altogether has
been filled with adventure.


HUMOR.

	One thing that can always be found—
fault.
	Something you can always borrow—
trouble.
	Vested interests—Money in the waist-
coat pocket.
	What is taken from you before you get
it? Your photograph.
	Who pays the highest price for a home?
The woman who marries for one.
	If you court a young woman, and you are
won and she is won, you will both be one.
	Why is the alphabet like cutting the first
teeth?—because it is taught yer (torture)
when young.
	“You seem to walk more erect than usual,
my friend.” “Yes, I have been straightened
by circumstances.”
	The Freeport "Journal" says: Pairs are
abundant in this place and front gates are
loaded down with them on fine evenings.
	The man whose hair turned white in a
single night is surpassed by the New York
girl who lost hers completely off in a single
dance.
	“Mamma, I don’t see how Satan turned
out to be such a bad fellow; there wasn’t
any devil to put him up to it.”
	Lord Brougham once said that no man
had any right to a nervous system who does
not possess two thousand a year.
	A poor young man remarks that the only
advice he gets from capitalists is to “live
within his income,” whereas the difficulty
he experiences is to live without an income.
	It is stated that a boy was lynched while
endeavoring to sell the passengers on one of
the blockaded Pacific Railroad trains, copies
of the ballad of “Beautiful Snow.”
	“Ah, parson, I wish I could take my gold
with me,” said rich old Deacon Swipes. “It
might melt if you did,” quietly replied the
parson.
	Epitaph on Mrs. Jones:—“She was first
cousin to the Earl of Cork; she was bland,
affable, religious; she painted in water-
colors; and of such is the kingdom of
“Heaven.”
	An inquiring man thrust his fingers into
a horse’s mouth to see how many teeth he
had. The horse closed his mouth to see how
many fingers the man had. The curiosity
of each was fully satisfied.
	What is fashion, Annie? Fashion is
something that causes Betsy, who goes bare-
headed all the week, when the sun is
shining, to wear gloves and carry a parasol
on Sunday, when it is cloudy.
	A little boy was sent to a store for some
eggs. Before reaching home he dropped
them. In answer to his mother, who asked,
“Did you break any?” he replied, “No, I
didn’t break any, but the shells came off
some of them.”
	A Sunday-school teacher who had almost 
become discouraged over the listlessness of
her class, at last felt rewarded by an inter-
esting look from a little girl. The reward
was lost when the little creature touched a
bracelet on her arm and asked, “Teacher,
are them threaded on ’lastic?”
	There is a man in Portland, Maine, who
supports his family in a handsome style by
simply tying an able-bodied cat by the tail
to a clothes-line every night, and then going
out in the morning to collect the soap, shav.
ing-cups, brushes, etc., thrown into the
yard by angry boarders in adjoining houses.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.
				 —
	Ohio produced 9,072,063 pounds of cheese
last year.
	Miss Gilbert is trying to put a library in
the St. Louis jail.
	A Church organ atSchuylerville, New
York, is run by water.
	Women fill the clerkships in the Stock-
holm banks. They are not given to embez-
zlements.
	Mrs. Louisa W. Foss is a new candidate
for the honors of the elocutionary rostrum.
	Metz has lost a third of its population by
emigration since the German occupation.
	Thomas Ansbro has been convicted of
libel against Edith O’Gorman “the escaped
nun.”
	The Marquis of Bute has sent a collection
of minerals from Wales for the American
Exhibition in 1876.
	The widow of Mark Lemon, late editor of
“Punch,” has received a pension of L100
from the British Government.
	The Duke of Genoa, nephew of the King
of Italy, is about to undertake a voyage
around the world.
	San Francisco rejoices in a railroad ring,
a mining ring, a wheat ring, a whisky ring
and a real estate ring.
	A ring of land grabbers at East Saginaw
expects to make $2,000,000 in stealing the
lands of tbe Chippewa Indians.
	Anna Dickinson has two new lectures
ready, one on the woman question, the other
on the labor question.
	Hanna Matilda Dodd, deceased, gives
$1,000 to be expended in medals for the
best girl graduates of the Boston High
School.
	There is another case for Darwin near
Vancouver. A man residing near there
recently broke a fresh egg, and found there-
in a snake three inches long.
	Since the great fire six hundred and
thirty-seven buildings have been erected in
Chicago, at an estimated cost of $40,000,000.
One looking upon the re-built city can
scarcely trace the effects of the fire.
	The divorces granted last year in Con-
necticut numbered 409, being one more
than the previous year; while the marriages
numbered 26 less than the year previous
In more than two-thirds of the cases the
wife was the petitioner.
	An immense Bunsen battery is being
constructed at the Holy Cross College, Wor-
cester, Mass., which when complete, will
be powerful enough to illuminate the whole
with the electric light.
	Some figures given by the Boston “Adver-
tiser” show the profits of the manufacturers of
that State to be $102,000,000 in 1870, or
about $68 per capita to the population. The
wages paid amounted to $18,000,000 which
to those employed in the factories, was equiv-
alent to $421 each.


﻿A ROMANTIC story is told of how, during
the bombardment of Paris, a gallant French
captain, Legrand by name, undertook to bear
dispatches into the besieged city, by swim-
ming across the Seine; how he failed in his
mission, his fate remaining a mystery for
many months; and how, very recently,
there was fished up from the bottom of the
river, a skeleton, accoutred in uniform, and
clutching a water-proof satchel containing
the missing dispatches. A funeral with
military honors, and an imposing monument
in Pere-la-Chaise follow as things of course.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿WOMAN IN ART.
			   ——
	Harriet Hosmer, of Watertown, Mass., is
the most widely known among the women
sculptors at Rome. An ideal head called
“Hesper,” daguerreotypes of which were
taken to Gibson, the English sculptor at
Rome, obtained that artist’s consent for the
lady to become his pupil. Among her art-
studies were copies of the “Venus of Milo,”
the “Cupid of Praxiteles,” and the “Tasso”
of the British Museum. Her first original
attempt was a head of “Daphne,” then of
“Medusa.” Two replicas to the “Daphne”
were subsequently ordered. Her next de-
sign was the shepherd wife whom Paris
deserted for Helen. In 1856 she executed
a statue of “Puck,” three copies of which
are in noble collections in England. The
following year she made a statue of
“Beatrice Cenci Asleep in her Cell,” and the
design of a monument erected in one of the
churches in memory of a beautiful daughter
of Madame Falconet, an English Catholic
lady resident of Rome. “Zenobia,” a colossal
work, architectural in style, with massive
and highly finished drapery, was sent to the
United States for exhibition, and received
the praise of art connoisseurs. In the Paris
Exposition of 1867, she exhibited the
“Sleeping Faun,” and the Legislature of
Missouri gave her a commission to execute
a statue of Thomas H. Benton.
	Miss Emma Stebbins, of New York, like
Miss Hosmer, has long been a resident at
Rome, devoted to the plastic art. She ex-
ecuted a statue of Columbus, which has
found many admirers. One of the most
pleasing and originial specimens of her skill
is a figure of “Joseph,” represented in boy-
hood. A statuesque adornment for a
fountain commissioned for the Central Park
is a representation of the “Angel of the
Waters”—the miracle beside the pool of
Bethesda.
	Miss Foley, of Vermont, has achieved an
enviable reputation by success in relievos.
Among her celebrated works is a bas relief
of Longfellow, a head of William Cullen
Bryant, and one of Charles Sumner.
	Edmonia Lewis, a dusky maiden of negro
and Indian parentage, while in her teens
abandoned herself to sculpture. During the
Union war she exhibited a bust of Colonel
Shaw, the fair-haired hero and martyr to
the cause of her race, at the Soldiers’ Relief
Fair in Boston. Since then she has modeled
the “Freedwoman on First Hearing of her
Liberty” and “Hager in the Wilderness,”
and has excited much interest among the
Roman studios during her residence in
Italy.
	 Mrs. Ames, wife of the eminent portrait
painter, has executed from memory a suc-
cessful portrait of Lincoln, in marble.
	Miss Anne Whitney, of Boston, has been
brought into favorable notice by her original
statues of “Godiva” and “Africa.”
	Mrs. Freedman, wife of the well known
American painter, J. E. Freedman, during
a long residence in Italy achieved great
fame by the delicacy and finished modeling
of several marble portraits and an elaborately
sculptured vase, carved in alto-relievo.—
N. Y. “Star.”


﻿LADIES OF OLDEN TIME.

	History and tradition offer many types of
beautiful womanhood. The grace and love-
liness of Greece, the more heroic grandeur
of old Rome, the social and personal equality,
so to speak, of the white-armed Scandin-
avian women, the domestic activities and
courtly ladyhood of the medieval “chate-
laine,” all these, and many more, are as


pictures, wherein we see represented the
ideal woman, each perfect after its kind,
and all beautiful. In saying this, we must
of course, allow for the difference of custom
between then and now, and not judge accord-
ing to the religion of our nineteenth century
drawing room. Now the rule is for men to
pay attention to women, and to prevent their
doing the most trifling act for themselves,
and “serving” is the last thing our ladies
think of; then—though this “then” is very
wide, both in race and chronology—the
distinctive quality of womanhood was her
service, and the more lovely and perfect the
lady, no matter what her nation or era, the
more thoroughly she performed the assigned
functions of her state, and the more inex-
tricable her ladyhood was connected with
such performance. Queens and princesses
bound up the wounds of, and poured out
wine for their lords and knights; and in
that pretty story of “Walthere and the
Lady Hildegund,” Walthere is represented
as falling in love with the lady while she is
serving him with wine. Also, in the story
of “Beowulf,” Hrthogar’s queen, the noble
Wealtheow, advanced from her seat to bear
the cup to the warriors. First she offered it
to the king, her husband, and greetingly
“bade him to be blithe at the bear-drink-
ing, he who was dear to his people.” Then
she went round the hall, offering the cup,
and distributing gifts to each. At length
the “ring-adorned queen, exalted in mind,”
bore the mead-cup to Beowulf himself, and
“sagacious in words,” addressed the hero
in flattering terms. The same kind of
thing prevails in some of the more northern
parts of Europe to this day; and to our mind
the picture of our young daughters of the
house themselves serving the guests—not
as inferiors, be it understood, but as the dis-
pensers of hospitality and welcome—is a far
more lovely manifestation than the silent
automatic attendance of half a dozen men
in livery, who have reduced “waiting at
table” to a science, wherein he is the
greatest proficient who is the most mechani-
cal and the least human. — “Chimney
Corner.”


﻿A YOUNG LADY’S THOUGHTS.
					—
	The following is an extract from a private
letter, written by one young lady to another,
and courteously handed to us for publication:
							Nov. 1, 1872.
	You have been in my thoughts all the
morning, and I have been wondering
whether you would think of a year ago to-
day, or not. It was just another such a
morning as this—bright and clear and sunny
and beautiful. I called on you at an early
hour that morning—I recollect the date
because I have rarely in my life enjoyed
any little circumstance as I did that health-
ful, happy walk. I wanted you to go for a
run on the hill with me, but—let me tell
you how you were employed when I entered
the house:	Mixing bread and	making
preparations to wash. You couldn’t go, so
excused yourself. You know I was just
home after a month’s visit to——, and I
could not help contrasting your position
with that of some of our pretty belle butter-
tlies, who, I knew, were not out of bed by
that hour, and who, when they did rise
would spend all that delightful morning
shut in from the beautiful, glorious sunshine,
dressing and powdering, preparing to receive
or make fashionable calls. How I appre-
ciated you and your real worth, then! There,
too, was your big brother in his little shop,
measuring and planing and hammering
away, and looking so good natured and con-
tented, that I thought, at the moment, any


one who would not put up such an honest
tradesman, in any case of importance,
against a dozen of worthless, polished city
puffs, who get their living—no matter how,
would be badly cheated.
	How thankful we should be, my dear
friend, that our mothers have been wise
enough to show us the importance and the
dignity of labor! They have not taught us,
either, that physical strength, its culture
and development, is all that is worthy of
attention, as some coarse-minded people
seem to believe. But that the powers of
thought and reason, the immortal mind,
must also be carefully regarded; to cultivate
order, polite manners without affectation,
neatness, sweet temper, a love for the
beautiful in nature and in art, and respect
and reverence for all things pure and good.
Your mother and my mother have taught
us these principles, and if we do not employ
and enjoy them, the fault is ours and not
theirs.
	There are few mothers like ours. God
bless them and bless the poor, old world with
many such in future. 	  *	  *
								JULIA.


﻿Jumping from trains when in motion has
been made a penal offence in England.
	A remarkable old English gentleman
is missing, and is so particularly described
in an advertisement in the London Times
that, if he be found, the finders will be at
no loss to recognize him. He wears “a
brown wig and a green shade over one eye.”
He has no hair on his face, but he carries a
deep red scar over his left eyebrow, has
“large yellow teeth dressed in black with a
grey overcoat.” Now a man with a wig
over his eye and an overcoat on his teeth
ought to be identified with a positive assur-
ance wherever he may turn up, especially if
he spends freely and gives checks on Lon-
don banks, as this old-gentleman-errant is
said to do.—New York Tribune.

	An English journal announces an im-
provement in railway signalling, put into
operation at Birmingham, which is on the
London and Northwestern Railroad. It says
that “by a new arrangement of signalling
there will be no more screeching from en-
gines within the station, except for shunt-
ing or pilot engines. From all the departure
platforms telegraph wires have been laid
down communicating with the pointsmen’s
signal boxes at each end of the station.
When a train is ready to start the superin-
tendent unlocks the signalling-box, and sig-
nals in what direction the train is going.
On receiving the signal that a train is ready
to start, the pointsman shows the signal
“line clear,” and the driver starts his train
without any preparatory whistling.”
	An Indiana editor lays down his shears
for a few minutes to write a double-leaded
editorial, in which he plaintively remarks:
“We are the recipient of half a peck of nice
onions, two watermelons and a bottle of
ginger-beer from one of our subscribers.
The gifts were like the shadow of a rock in
a weary land. We are glad some one re-
membered us in the midst of our labors and
cares, and evinced that remembrance in so
delicate a manner. We dote on onions and
love melons dearly; and so long as the fra-
grance of the former and the gripes of the
latter linger about us, we shall hold the kind
donor in affectionate remembrance. Of gin-
ger-beer we have never been able to speak
enthusiastically, but may say that our chil-
dren enjoyed it greatly; while the empty
bottle added not a little to the effective
force of our office armory.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.

	We would respectfully call your attention to the
fact, that we have one of the Largest and best Stocks
of Ladies’, Misses’ and Children’s FURS in Sets, as
also Capes and Collars (separate), that will be found
in this City.  Also a large assortment of Fine Shoes
of Philadelphia and California make.
	The above goods we will sell at the lowest possible
price.
					DUNFORD & SONS, 
							Salt Lake City.

DR W. H. GROVES,
							DENTIST,
	Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
		Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense-stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY, 
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,  
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for Woman’s Exponent.

A PRIZE!
	Should be in every house!
		The SINGER SEWING MACHINE!
Will do the most delicate and elegant, as well as
the strongest or plainest, sewing, in a style un-
equalled by any other Machine. Received the first
diploma at the Territorial Fair, in October last. Its
Embroidery attachment is an object of general ad-
miration.
	More of the Singer are sold than of any other
Machine. Call and see them at the Singer Sewing
Machine Department, two doors south of Eagle
Emporium, Salt Lake City.
					Z. C. M. I. General Agents.
Z. C. M. I.
	RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.
    We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
riety of our Patrons.
	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated 
				SALT LAKE GLOVES.
    Children’s Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty. 
	While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics
of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,
Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-
est possible figure.
						H. B. CLAWSON, Sup’t.

LADIES !
	Go to Taylor & Cutler's for Dress Goods, No-
tions, etc. Also the Cheapest Store for Family Gro-
ceries in town. Call and see.

			JOHNSON'S
	
	HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES!

Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-

	ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.

	BONESET PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.

	EYE BALSAM: For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.

	CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.

	ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills. Price 50 cents.
	
	These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at

	      ZION’S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,

Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.

	If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them.

	Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.

	AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.

From the Laboratory of
							J. E. JOHNSON, 
							   St. George, Utah.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

			WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
			
		       A UTAH LADIES' JOURNAL.

	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.

	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.

	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!”

	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of Woman’s Exponent, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.

	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leadings topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.

	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.

	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In Woman’s Exponent a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.

	Woman’s Exponent will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.

	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1 Copy one year, $2.00	1 Copy six months, $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months, 9.00

    No subscription received for less than six months.
    It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

    Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers Woman’s Exponent, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


Woman's Exponent.
Vol. I.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1872.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
				—
	ln Burlington, Iowa, the street lights
are extinguished at 10 o'clock. It is pre-
sumable that the people there are temperate
and moral.
	After the horses, first came the
chickens and then the hogs, as sufferers by
the epidemic among the animals first named.
Will man come next?
	The fair famed English poetess, Eliza
Cook, is reported ill beyond recovery. Does
she still cling to the “Old Armed Chair” of
which she has so sweetly sung?
	From present indications the coming
winter will be a hard one. Some time ago
work on the Nothern Pacific R. R,. had to be
suspended in consequnce of the severity of
the weather.
	Pioche is anxious for the railroad track
to be extended form the terminus of the
Utah Southern to Bullionville, that the
coal mines of Kanarra may be bound to the
silver mines of Pioche
	A Pennsylvania woman lately sold her
two weeks’ old baby for $10, but wanted it
back soon after, because another party had
offered $25 for it. Some people have
curious ways of making money.
	The last present ever received by Abra-
ham Lincoln, an elegant family Bible given
him by the colored people of the South, has
just been presented by Mrs. Lincoln to Rev.
Dr. Miner of Belvedere, Illinois.
	Fires and storms on land and sea, inun-
dations and general devastation, reports
of which daily crowd the telepraphic columns
of the newspapers, seem indicative of a
universal crisis in some direction, at no
distant period.
	A friend announces that the whole world
is apparently on the point of committing
suicide, but what with its present intemper-
ance, insubordination, insolvency and gen-
eral inconsistencies it might philosophically
be considered as being already in the very
act.
	In Marseilles, France, a jury recently
acquitted a beautiful young brunette for the
crime of assassinating her lover for refusing
to purchase a gold watch to which she took
a fancy. Another decided case ol insanity;
for if the murderess was “compos mentis”
the jury certainly not.
	Boston’s relief fund, for the sufferers
by its great fire, has reached about two
hundred thousand dollars. Wealth has not
made the Bostonian heart altogether hard,
nor frozen up its fountains of charity; or
else the great conflagration has softened
the one and thawed out the other.
	Scotland seems to be highly favored
with visits from distinguished people this
year. The Queen and the Prince and
Princess of Wales are there; The French
Empress and the Prince Imperial but lately
left; Gladstone and John Bright have gone
there; Stanley has been there; and Lowell
is somewhere in that part of the Globe.
	Cooper told of the “last of the Mohicans”
years ago, but it appears that about 100 of
the tribe still survive and have been in-
vested with the rights of citizenship by the
[new column]
Legislature of Connecticut; and that they
are as industrious and well informed as any
of their white neighbors. America may
yet be proud of her aborigines.
	Senator Sumner has returned from
Europe, and on Wednesday last he met
Senator Henry Wilson, the newly elected
Vice-President, in the office of the New
York “Tribune,” the two greeting each
other cordially. Thus the political hatchet,
it appears, is being buried by the “Tri-
bune,” and the rival factions of Republicans.
	Mrs. Greeley, formerly Miss Mary G.
Cheney, whose death lately occurred at the
residence of Alvin Johnson, in New York,
is said to have been a lady of highly culti-
vated intellect, taste and social attainments.
True sympathizers will condole more with
the old Chappaqua Farmer on her loss than
upon any political disappointment which he
has lately sustained.
	Diamonds and other precious stones are
becoming so plenty, or so plentifully talked
of, in this western region, that we do not
wonder at mothers when referring to their
babies, speaking of eyes like diamonds, and
lips like rubies. It is to be feared that some
of the investors in diamond expeditions,
may have reason to look blue as sapphires
before their experience is ended.
	A political crisis in France, more in-
surrection in Spain, Rome threatened with
radical uprisings, trouble in Prussia between
the Emperor and the national Diet; with
every leading nation, including our own,
talking of strengthening its powers of offense
and defense. These are the evidences of
“peace” which the civilized world presents,
and of which there has lately been so much
vaunting.
	On Wednesday, Nov. 20, Boston sufferd
loss by another large fire, although it was
small compared with the great conflagration
which so short a time before had preceded
it. The total loss reached nearly $350,000;
and the large printing establishment of
Rand & Avery was destroyed, with the
December number of “Old and New,” one
issue of “Littell’s Living Age” and other
periodicals.
	A Sensational New York paper reported
recently that Greeley was insane, and the
story was telegraphed over the country. If
Greeley is crazy, who in New York is wise?
He suffered deeply in feelings and endured
much loss of sleep during the last illness
and death of his beloved wife—prostrating
him for a time—but he is likely to live and
prove himself much more sane than those
who gave currency to such a tale.
	The Woodhull and Claflin sisters have
been saying and publishing fearful things
about Henry Ward Beecher, Mrs. Theodore
Tilton, and New York “society” generally.
They were arrested, lodged in jail on the
charge of publishing “obscene literature,”
and also held on a charge of libel against one
Challis, a New York banker or broker. If
one tenth part of what they charge—and
they defend much of it—be true, then the
corruption of “Gotham” is something terri-
ble to think of.
	Miss Kate Janaway is the daughter of
an ex-Mayor of Memphis, Tennessee, but
she has learned that woman’s accomplish-
[new column]
ments should include more than a little
piano and a large amount of fashion and
novel reading. She caried off premiums at
the late Agricultural Fair for roast beef,
plum pudding, and her style of preparing a
variety of vegetables; enough to give her
the claim to be considered the best cook in
Tennessee. And she received twenty-five
offers of marriage on the spot! How much of
romance, and how much of prosaic Common
Sense were in those offers?
	Henry Berge, “the guardian angel and
the patron saint of the bestial race,” stand-
ing at the junction of Third and Fourth
avenues, at the Cooper Institute, New York,
during the horse distemper, displayed his
professional shield, and in the name of the
august Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, ordered men to cease driving
their gasping horses. And being reinforced
by the police he carried the day. Good for
Henry. But what kind of beings must
they have been who had to be compelled to
unhiteh their sick and panting beasts?
	We clip the following from the Wash-
ington “Star” of November 20, where it
appeared under the heading “Hero and
Heroine,” without further comment: “Syl-
vester Frambes, of Tippecanoe, Spencer
county, Ind., was drawn into a sugar crusher
and had his arm crushed to tbe shoulder one
day last week. His wife came to his assist-
ance, and when she had released him by
backing the horse she fainted away. With
great nerve and endurance he carried her to
the house on his uninjured arm, and re-
stored her to consciousness, when she went
for a surgeon, who disjointed the arm at
the shoulder. He will probably recover.”
	Vermont does not believe that capital
punishment is “legal murder,” as some “ad-
vanced minds” term it. The Legislature
of that State, by a large majority, has re-
fused to abolish the death penality. That
whiich is needed to repress alarming and
heinous crimes throughout the country, is
not abolishing of capital punishment, nor
the passage of severer statutes; but the due
honoring of wise and just statutes and their
rigid enforcement. But while men can kill
with impunity, and gloat over their deeds
of blood, and can be rescued from the
clutches of the law,unharmed and un-
punished, by influence or money, what will
bad men care whether such a penalty
remains upon the statute books of States or
is formally abolished.
	Another paragraph on this page refers
to the story that Horace Greeley had gone
insane, refusing to credit it, and looking
forward to a length of life for him. Later
reports confirm the belief in his sanity, but
destroy the hope of his prolonged life. The
great editor is gone. He died on Friday
evening, 29th ult., at ten minutes to seven
o’clock, nearly sixty-two years of age. The
cause of his death was virtually sleepless-
ness. He could not sleep, after the exertion
and exhaustion consequent upon the death
of his wife, and the strain upon him during
the Presidential campaign; and in about four
weeks after she was carried to the grave,
his spirit passed from earth, the sleepless-
ness having turned to inflamation of the
brain. And so another great and wise man
has fallen!


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿	Written for the Exponent.
			LONGINGS.

		All night! All dark!
		So drear and sad!
		No light! No little spark
		To make me glad;
  No loving arms to twine around me now;
  No tender kiss to soothe my aching brow.

		Weary! Weary!
		Heaven is full of rest.
		Earth seem so dreary,
		Life so poor at best—
  And yet we all must take an active part,
  Nor sink beneath the burdens of the heart.

		Hopeless and sad
		Our way may be—
		Lord make us glad
		To worship Thee.
  Oh! lead our footsteps in some brighter path;
  Teach man to him Thou givest all he hath.
		
		Hope sends her light,
		Like some bright star;
		And lends us sight
		To joys afar;
  That we may see wisdom in Thy ways,
  Nor spend, in vain repining, all our days.
PROVO.							M. J. T.


﻿F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.

	Sister Amelia M. Frodsham writes from
Ogden under date Nov. 22:
	We have been having severely cold
weather, still a few of the sisters met in the
capacity of a meeting on the coldest day we
have had There is a lively interest taken
in the Society, and great desire to do good
is manifested in caring for the poor. This
work is one of grave interest to me, and I
feel that much good may be accomplished
through the Exponent. The sisters need
not be idle, and think they have no mission
to perform, for even that of wife and mother
is, to me, a vast and noble one. Yet in
connection with these cares, we can find
time to speak words of kindness and com-
fort to those who are cast down, administer
to the wants of the poor, and visit the sick.
My prayer is that God will open the hearts
of those who have means to give to those who
have not, and both will receive a blessing.
I believe when people do good deeds their
own consciences reward them for it.

	On Saturday, Nov. 23, at the general Re-
trenchment Meeting, which is held Semi-
monthly in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms, President Mrs. Isabella Horn ex-
pressed a great desire to witness a revival
among the sisters; that they might become
more united in faith, and also in the extend-
ing and promulgating of every wise and
beneficial principle. And for this cause, she
hoped that the meetings would be well
attended during the coming winter. Com-
ing together and holding converse in an
intelligent manner, upon topics of interest,
serves to enlighten, refine and elevate the
mental faculties; and the more there are
who associate thus together, the broader will
be the current of intellectual improvement.
The house could be made warm and com-
fortable, would accommodate a goodly
number, and she desired to see it well filled
every meeting day. A number of the sisters
made short but pithy remarks.
	Physiology was chosen for the subject to
be considered at the next meeting.

				Brigham City, Nov. 20. 1872,
Editor Woman's Exponent.—
	At a recent meeting of our society a
motion to have the word “Female” dropped
from the name, according to sister Eliza R.
Snow’s suggestion, was carred by a unani-
mous vote.	
				Harriet A. Snow. President.
[next column]
				Kamas Prairie, Nov. 24, 1872.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	At a meetiug held iu this place, Nov.
15th, Sister Ann Harder presiding, it was
moved, seconded and carried unanimously
that the word “Female” be dropped from
the name of the Society, in accordance with
the suggestion of Sister Eliza R. Snow and
others of our faithful sisters in the Relief
Societies. Some satisfaction was expressed
at the change, for we had long considered
the canceled word unnecessary to the signi-
fication of the appellation. The Exponent
was warmly advocated by the President,
and several of the sisters. We felt to
endorse the sentiment so ably expressed on
the last page of your valuable publication:
“It is better to represent ourselves than to
be misrepresented by others.” We have
been misrepresented for so long a time that
some may consider it not worth our while to
speak for ourselves, and in defense of the
truth at this late hour. But we may at least
assert our right to utter our own opinions,
belief and knowledge. For since the
glorious Gospel of the Son of God has made
us free, we are free indeed, and seek to
honor the God whom we revere, and trust
in Him who is the Rock of our Salvation.
				Mrs. Phebe Young,
						Ass’t Secretary.

			Alpine City, Nov. 21st, 1872.
Editor Exponent:—At our last meeting a
vote was carried unanimously in favor of
dispensing with the word “Female” as an
unnecessary prefix to the name of the
Society. The sisters feel well and are on
hand to do their duty as Saints.
	We have a hundred-dollar share in the
woolen factory at Provo, a twenty-five
dollar share in our Co-operative store, have
donated twenty-five dollars to help gather
the Saints, and made other collections to be
used for the benefit of the poor, to the
amount of sixty dollars. We try to give,
and take, lessons of economy.
	I have been a member of this church for
thirty years, and have never seen a time
when the truths of the Gospel were so en-
couraging as at present. The Lord said he
would choose the weak things of this world
to confound the wise. This is being fulfilled;
and the wisdom of God is greater than that
of man.
					Margaret McCullough.

				Santaquin, Nov. 19th, 1872.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	I forward a brief report to you, of our last
monthly meeting, held on the 7th inst., at
which a vote was taken to omit the word
“Female” from the name of the Society, as
suggested, which was unanimous. Presi-
dent Mrs. E. J. Stickney, who had just
returned from a visit to Salt Lake City,
made some excellent and very cheering
remarks. Several highly commendable
articles were read from the Exponent,
which we value very much; and meeting
adjourned until the first Monday in Decem-
ber. Benediction by Counselor Mrs. Green-
halch,
				Julia Wilson, Secretary.


﻿The will of the late Mrs. Arabella Rice,
of Portsmouth, N. H., who is said to have
been the wealthiest lady in the State, dis-
poses of about $200,000 in legacies; among
those of a public nature being $30,000 to the
town of Kittery for a public library, $20,000
to the State Asylum for the insane, and
$3,000 each, to the Portsmouth Atheneum
and Unitarian Church.
	Seventy thousand Angora goats leap
from precipice to precipice in California.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
		
	One good strong brain at the helm of the
family craft is worth several pairs of stout
hands. As everything aboard ship depends
upon the skill with which the rudder hands
are made to do their duty, so everything in
the household depends on the outlining of
the year’s, the week’s, or the day’s work.
If the mistress leaves matters to drift as it
happens, or trusts the management of her
affairs to unskilled or unfaithful hands, she
will soon find herself in the midst of
inextricable confusion. We cannot but
think that more than half the blame mis-
tresses lay upon their servants for work ill
done or undone belongs at their own doors.
The person who voluntarily takes and holds
a subordinate position virtually acknowl-
edges her inability to setup for herself; she
confesses by so doing that she needs a
mistress, and that her duties may be pre-
scribed by another. When fully instructed
in the routine she is to follow, she may be
left to herself, in a measure; but rare is that
servant who does not need at times the
sympathy, the thoughtfulness, the aid of
her mistress in accomplishing the work
expected of her. Our great merchants, our
leading bankers, our prominent railroad
men do not trust the management of their
business to subordinates. They visit every
important post in person, and not by proxy,
and know by ocular inspection that every-
thing is right. If one needs to engineer her
way in household matters when she can
hire muscle to carry out her plans, much
more is brain-work necessary when she has
nothing but her own hands to depend upon.
It is worth while in such a case to study out
the best plan for the week’s campaign, to
decide upon what first shall be done and
what next, to arrange the points of attack
in the most skillful and felicitous manner,
and with reference to the time and the
power that may be devoted to accomplish
the desired ends. By this means the house-
keeper will know exactly what she is doing,
how her work progresses, and be able to
take advantage of whatever may turn up
favorable to her wishes. Most of us can call
to mind women of feeble health who accom-
plish marvels in the way of work, simply by
their skill in planning. In this men may help
their wives very much if they will. The
unbiased judgment of a friend is often of the
greatest value to one fretted and wearied by
complications and perplexities in his affairs.
The man coming in from the great world
into the little world of domestic life can
often tell at a glance at what point friction
is greatest, exactly where the fulcrum shall
be placed so that with the lever in hand the
weight to be moved shall be lifted. Where
the wife is wanting in the ability to map
out her line of operations, and the husband
possesses it, he should use this talent for
the best good of both parties. It matters
not which half of the dual unit stands at the
wheel, if the course of the ship is ever
toward the desired haven, and away from
rocks and shoals.—“New York Tribune.”
	White Cake.—One cup of butter, two of
sugar, one of milk, four and a half of flour,
four eggs, one and a half teaspoonful of
cream of tartar, half do. of soda.
	Soft Gingerbread.—One cup of me-
lasses, one of sour cream, two eggs, salt,
ginger, one teaspoonful of soda; make it
into a thick batter with flour.
	Potatoes.—Always add salt to the water
while potatoes are boiling; boil moderately,
not violently, and let them be only well
covered with water.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿TWO SIDES OF LIFE.
					—
		There is a shady side of life,
		   And a sunny side as well,
		And 'tis for every one to say
		   On which he’d choose to dwell;
		For every one unto himself
		   Commits a grievous sin,
		Who bars the blessed sunshine out,
		   And shuts the shadows in.
		
		The clouds may wear their saddest robes,
		   The sun refuse to smile,
		And sorrow, with her troop of ills,
		   May threaten us the while;
		But still the cheerful herat has power
		   A sunbeam to provide;
		And only those whose souls are dark,
		   Dwell on life’s shady side.


﻿FLOWERS.
				—
	Nothing is so reasonable and cheap as
good manners.
	There is no grace in a benefit that sticks
to the fingers.
	How few the men who dare to be just
what they are.
	No person knows what he would do till
comes the time to decide.
	If you would add to the happiness of
yourself and others, work without fretting.
	Mrs. Partington says she gets up every
morning at the chill carrion of the chande-
lier.
	He who does evil that good may come
pays a toll to the devil to let him into
Heaven.
	Of all earthly music, that which reaches
farthest into heaven is the beating of a
loving heart.
	If men strove as hard for happiness as
for money, manhood would be more glorious
than now.
	Neither death nor life is as serious as
maarriage. Yet nothing is entered into
more thoughtlessly.
	A man that hoards riches and enjoys
them not, is like an ass that carries gold
and eats thistles.
	Good epigrams, like good jokes, never
lose their youth; but when and where they
commence their wanderings, “you nor I nor
no one knows.
	One should not be downcast at failures.
They are often far better for the student
than success. He who goes to school to his
mistakes will always have a good school-
master, and will not be likely to become idle
or conceited.
	“When speaking of the dead,” says Sir
James Puckle, in his “Gray Cap for a Green
Head,” a volume abounding in quaint
similies folded about kernels of good sense
—“When speaking of the dead, so fold up
your discourse that their virtues may be
outwardly shown, while their vices are
wrapped up in silence.” A good way in
which to speak of the living, too.
	“Who says angels must be all young and
splendid? Are there not some comforting
ones, shabby and tender, whose radiance
does not dazzle nor bewilder; whose faces
are worn, perhaps, while their stars shine
with a tender, tremulous light, more sooth-
ing to our aching earth-bound hearts than
the glorious radiance of brighter spirits?”
	The habit of fretting becomes so settled
that it is very difficult to overcome, in every-
thing in life, whether of great or small
importance. It is well worth the effort to
look upon things in a cheerful light for
personal comfort and the happiness of those
around us. A hornet’s nest is a dangerous
and disagreeable thing to stir up, but not
worse than the disposition of some fretting
men and women.—“Elm Orlou,”


[For the Exponent.
			STANDING ALONE.

	Down he goes! And, Oh! what a thump
on that precious head! It must be bathed
in cold water and camphor. And tender,
pitying expressions must be uttered to sooth
the little wounded heart—which is as nearly
broken by having made this first grand
attempt to “do something,” and met with
so sudden and unexpected a failure, in the
way of a fall, fright and injury, as it ever
will be by heavier falls in future life. All
the laughter and innocent joyousness which
illumed the baby face a moment before,
have disappeared, and tears of anguish and
cries of dispondency and pain, tell how
accutely the disappointment is felt by the
enterprising young genius, just beginning
to learn to walk. His hopes are blighted,
his prospects so bedimmed and clouded that
he feels he never can be anything or any-
body in the world, and overwhelmed with
grief and discouragements, he allows his
little head to droop upon a loving neck, and
there wails himself to sleep under the in-
fluence of the sweet lullaby of a sympathiz-
ing voice. After a brief rest, however, he
will awake again, and with renewed anima-
tion and vigor, stand bravely forth to make
another effort with, perhaps, a little more
caution than before, and, very possibly
better success.
	But other failures lie in wait for him.
Other disappointments will have to be
encountered. The path of life he will find,
is thronged with them. Every little way
there is a hill to be surmounted, a summit
to be gained. And untaught feet are ever
apt to choose the slippery paths, because
they look most smooth and inviting. And
with a fall as sudden as the infant’s first,
are fair, bright prospects often stricken
down, and high hopes blasted by a single
shock, and all the sunshine of a young, glad
life crushed and lost apparently for ever.
Then; should there be no sympathizer near,
no voice to cheer, no practiced hand to
guide, and to lift up and rest the weary head,
and bring new life and animation to the
over burdened, bruised and breaking heart
—how terrible to stand thus all alone. But
it is not, nor never can be so to one who lives
for pure and noble aims. The happiest
heart is heavy in its turn; the strongest,
weak at times, and calls for aid; but there
is a Source of strength for the fainting soul
which never fails, and sunshine for the
gloomiest heart, brighter and more glorious
than the mother’s smile upon her loving,
trusting dear one.				G.


﻿EASE IN SOCIETY.

	“I’d rather thrash in the barn all day,” said
Reuben Riley to his sister, as he adjusted an
uncomfortable collar about his neck, “than
go to the pesky party. I never know what
to do with myself, stuck up in the parlor all
the evening. If the fellows would pull
their coats off and go out and chop wood on
a match, there’d be some fun in that.”
	“Well, I hate it as bad as you do, Reu-
ben,” said sister Lucy. “The fact is we
never go nowhere, to see anybody, and no
wonder we feel so awkward when we happen
to stir out.” 
	The remarks of this brother and sister
were but the echoes of the sentiment of
many other farmers’ boys and girls when
invited out to spend a social evening. But
poor Lucy had not hit the true cause of the
difficulty; it was not because they seldom
went any where, but because there was such
a wide difference between their home and
the company’s manners. The true way to


feel at ease in any garb is to wear it often.
If the pleasing garb of good manners is only
put on upon rare occasions, it will never fit
well and seem comfortable.
	Learn to behave properly at home, to
cultivate yourself. Do not sit or stand or
lounge about in an ungainly attitude, but
acquire a manly, erect bearing. I have
never seen such vigorous, hardy manhood
in any class as among cultivated farmers
sons. Let table manners be especially
looked after.
	If you are so unfortunate as to have a
mother who is careless in this regard, you
must do the best you can to remedy the
early defects in your home training. Note
carefully how well-bred people behave, and
do your best to imitate them. It is noble to
be an imitator of all that is good and beauti-
ful. Above all, if you wish to be at home
in society, fill your brain with ideas. Set
your mind at work. Wake it out of the
sluggishness it would naturally sink into if
you were only a plodder and nothing more,
by good stirring thought. Take the news-
papers and read them thoroughly. Know-
ledge is a great power in many more senses
than one. If you go into society with
something in your mind worth talking about,
you will not fail to find listeners who will
treat you with respect; and where you are
well received, you will not fail very soon to
find yourself at ease.—“Country Gentle-
man."


﻿[Written for the Exponent.]
		WHEN TO SPEAK.
			     —
	There is often virtue in remaining silent
when malevolence, jealousy, contempt or
ridicule excites the colloquial powers to
scorn, inconsistency, harshness or derision.
But there are also times when the tame,
taciturnity of which some pseudo-models 
of propriety are so anxious to present a
formula, reaches culpability. And these 
instances are of more frequent occurrence
than is generally admitted or realized.
When we hear the truth assailed falsely, it
is a duty for us to open our mouths and
endeavor to correct the heresy if possible,
by sound, philosophic reasoning. And this
may be done in a frank, easy manner, with-
out extravagance or cause of offence. When
a cheerful and clear mind may infuse a ray
of light into a burdened and beclouded one,
by words of counsel and comfort, it is un-
charitable and ungenerous to preserve
silence. And some gifted, yet over-careful 
people, may have accounts to settle hereafter 
for bridling the tongue too closely; if they
do not allow it to be of use where it might,
but for the mock-modesty of an affectedly
delicate instinct. Meeting a person in the
street, with whom you have a slight acquaint- 
ance, and who is in the least degree worthy
of recognition, and passing without notice,	
shows a lack of sociability which is often
mistaken for superciliousness. It is better
to speak, even should the reflection present
itself that others imagine themselves bet-
ter or wiser than we are. For if we believe
that other people entertain such feelings,
they may be led to credit the same opinion
of us, by our lack of sociability. But should
it be the case that they look upon us as
courtiers because we do not shun them, we
will, at least have the appearance of being
letter bred than they, if for this reason
they always allow us to speak first.


﻿TO ARRIVE at perfection, a man must have
very sincere friends or inveterate enemies;
because he would be made sensible of his
good or ill conduct either by the censures
of the one or the admonitions of the other.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
			LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City,
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers Woman’s Exponent,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, DECEMBER 1, 1872.


﻿SPLINTERS.
				—
	Flogging has been abolished in the public
schools in Chicago......Nellie Grant is at
home......A man in Petaluma, California,
has made a discovery of means by which
perpetual motion may be sustained, and
values the discovery at $20,000,000; of
course......The Supreme Court of Maine has
admitted Mrs. C. H. Nash to practice as an
attorney and counselor at-law......Rome is
to have a daily newspaper edited by an
American......A plague is carrying off the
poultry on the banks of the Hudson and
every three hundred inhabitants......The
known coal deposits of the Rocky Mountain
region extend over an area of upwareds of
250,000 square miles......Tennessee has a
colored female preacher......Rosa Bonheur
will visit the United States next year......
Boston public Schools have abolished the
system of offering prize medals......The
Oneida Community abolish marriage alto-
gether and the women of the Community
are said to look listless and spiritless......At
Oatka Falls, Kansas, they have a farmers’
wives’ club......A recent diamond robbery at
the Cape of Good Hope amounted to the
value of L30,000......Mrs, Yelverton is in
Africa with the intention, it is reported, of
joining Dr. Livingstone......The public debt
of Texas is estimated at $23,361,000......A
couple of young ladies at Monticello Avenue,
Jersey City, “laid out” a drunken sailor in
a ditch, the other day, for standing in their
way on the crossing and demanding a kiss
for toll......The “Freeman’s” oath was duly
administered to Mrs. Huntington of Norwalk
Conn., by the Board of Selectmen, but the
registers refused to put her name in the
voting list......The “Young Woman’s Chris-
tian Association,” of Boston, is soliciting
contributions, to aid young women who
have been thrown out of employment by
the great fire......Specie in the Bank of
France increased one million francs in one
week lately......J. Richie, of Vallejo, Cali-
fornia, has this season captured fifteen
sharks......Earthquake shocks in the Owens
river and Haiovi Meadows have been quite
frequent of late......Rich tin deposits are
reported to have been discovered within
twenty miles of San Francisco......The resi-
dences of the late James Gordon Bennett, at
Washington Heights and Fifth Avenue, New
York, are to let for five years......The St,
Louis “Evening Dispatch” has been pur-
chased by Robert Barclay for $120,000......
The Secretary of War compliments Congress
for completeness in last year’s legislation......
Susquehanna rivers......The laws of Kansas
give mothers the management of their
children......Judge Mayer refused to record
the votes of women in Oregon, on election
day......Cinnabar is said to abound in the
vicinity of Harrisburg, Linn Co., Oregon.
......A German woman refused to acknow-
ledge her three children to avoid paying for
their ride on the cars......California has a
hotel composed of ten immense hollow trees;
they are Calaveras Big trees...The figures
of the entire standing army of Europe are
put at 5,164,300......On the splendid marble
monument and tomb of Ferdinand and
Isabella, in the Cathedral at Grenada, the
king and queen are represented as lying
side by side......A new religious sect has
been started in Iowa, the members of which
call themselves Americans......An Italian
journal announces the death, at Placenza,
her native city, of Benedotta Pisaroni, aged
79, a celebrated soprano and contralto
singer of former days......Old woodsmen
mention as a curious fact, that beech and
sycamore trees are never struck by lightning,
though found in close proximity to oak,
[new column]
hickery and other species of trees that are 
often found torn to pieces by the subtle
fluid......A recent female collector who had
been round gathering up contributions for
“Widow Smith,” in San Francisco, was
discovered drunk in a saloon frequented
by thieves, and taken to the “calaboose.”......
San Francisco, it is said, has one widow to
Memories of Dean Alford are being pub-
lished...The great lion tamer, Herr Dries-
bach, is a farmer now, in Iowa......The
Grand Duke Nicholas, of Russia, is on a
pleasure trip to Greece......The Pope has
nominated an editor to the bishopric.......
The monument, of General Lee, in Rich-
mond, Virginia, will soon be completed......
The royal physician, Sir William Gull, lately
received $4,000 for a single visit......The
house of Dante, in Florence, is being sadly
neglected......The grandfather of the late
William H. Seward was a Colonel in the
Revolutionary war......Female voices are
prohibited in the choir under the jurisdic-
tion of Archbishop Manning......St. Louis
is going to erect a statue to the gallant Gen-
eral Nathaniel Lyon.....Mrs. Dr. Groasse,
of Milwaukee, has been sentenced to five
years imprisonment for passing counterfeit
money.


﻿NOTICE.
				     —
	Subscribers will please remember that the
present number commences the second half
year of the Exponent, and they who subscribed
for six months will understand that their sub-
scriptions have expired. Ladies in this city,
who have paid for having their papers carried,
and do uot receive them, will please notify the
editor and the matter will be rectified. City
subscribers who have not paid the carrier, can
obtain their papers at Campbell & Patter-
son’s.


﻿WHAT WE MEAN.
				    ——
	Queries are still frequently made concerning
the object of the EXPONENT; whether it is de-
signed to merely vindicate the cause of woman,
her aspirations and prerogatives; or whether its
contents are calculated to be strictly religious,
with no diversity of sentiments and principles;
if it sustains all theories advanced by the Pro-
phets of God in these and former days, or if it
has no other aim than the advocacy of “Plu-
rality of wives.” Notwithstanding the concise
yet full explanation given on these subjects in
the Prospectus to the EXPONENT, which so far
has been published on the last page of each
number of the journal, we willingly comply
with the request to endeavor once more to ex-
plain our intentions definitely and comprehen-
sively.
	The EXPONENT does not claim to support
any one particular cause, practice or opinion.
But being an advocate of everything which is
calculated to interest, instruct, or in any way
benefit woman, its columns are open for the re-
ception of all communications of a suitable
nature, from the pen of any of the ladies of
Utah, whose views and practices it is chiefly
designed to represent.


﻿HOLIDAYS.
					—
	Thursday, the 28th ult., was by Presidential
proclamation set apart as a day of thanksgiving
for the United States. While not designated
as a day for recreation and enjoyment it was
generally so observed, and looked upon as a
“holiday,” in the ordinary acceptance of the
word, which is simply a corruption of “holyday,”
or a day set apart for pious observances. So
such seasons were at first considered in Europe,
and were usually dedicated to some “patron
saint,” some man or some woman whose
accorded piety was supposed to have endowed
them with a special power of blessing, and a
country or a place was dedicated to, and a day set
apart out of respect for each, that their patron-
age might be secured. These were called, “holy
days,” and are now called “holidays,” being
at first a mixture of worship and amusement;
of prayers offered up to the Saint whose day
was being celebrated, and of joyous exercises,
which formed a healthful relaxation from the
cares, and toils of every day life. In some
Roman Catholic countries these days were
multiplied beyond all bounds, encouraging
laziness, intemperance and their kindred vices;
while in these United States, where no religion
is specially recognized, there is a scarcity of
such seasons of relaxation. And while Thanks-
giving Day is now accepted as a time for
general enjoyment and amusement, there is
little doubt that our forefathers, in first deciding
upon such an occasion for a general union of
the whole people in giving thanks for mercies
received, were solemnly sincere, and really did
dedicate the day to returning thanks to the
Almighty, in prayer and praise, for His protect-
ing care and vouchsafed blessings.
	But in this regard, “the spirit of the age,” as
exemplified in the United States, is widely
wrong. It drives hard on the road to money-
making, looks only to present or future fortune,
and disregards the innocent, recreative relaxa-
tion which days devoted to amusement and
enjoyment afford. Various parts of different
countries observe days as fairs, feasts, wakes and
the like, the aim being to bring people together
for general enjoyment, with a suspension of
work and buisness, all of which is conducive to
the general welfare; for the mind needs change
and the body rest, other and more than are ob-
tained by a simple and proper observance of the
Sabbath.
	For these reasons Sunday School festivals
social parties, pic nic parties, theatrical per-
formances, and similar assemblages for enjoy-
ment, have been encouraged in this Territory
by President Young and other leading men, and
for these reasons, we believe a wise and proper
increase of “holidays,” or days expressly
devoted to relaxation and enjoyment, would be
conducive of good to all. Hence we urge upon
parents the wisdom of affording to children a
judicious amount of amusement, and upon all,
the requisite change, variety and recreation
necessary to highten the enjoyment of life and
prolong its existence for good upon the earth.


DEMORALIZING INFLUENCES.
					  —
	Atrocities of late occurrence, in this city,
serve to render the aspect for the return of the
“happy days gone by,” when purity and inno-
cence were in no danger of being contaminated,
or virtue outraged, in no wise auspicious.
There has been a time, since the settlement of
Utah by the “Mormons,” in which the modesty
and chastity of woman were here regardrd as
her chief adornments; and held more sacred by
her honorable and respectful protectors than
every other treasure, even life itself. But base,


villainous men have intruded their persons
and fiendish practices even here, as emissaries
of the evil one, to tempt, decoy, entrap, and, if
possible, to destroy the virtue of the young and
thus prevent the future progress and prosperity
of the pure minded and God-fearing among the
people. And this fact, standing prominently
forward, as it does, should be a powerful admon-
ition to the inexperienced, the young and the
virtuous to be circumspect in their associations,
their coversation and deportment. Not only
should woman seek to maintain her own
crowning glory, purity and integrity, but
mothers and sisters will also do well to wield
the benign influence of which pure and noble
womanhood is ever possessed, energetically and
ceaselessly over the minds of the young of the
opposite sex. There is danger for them as well
as for the beauty and simplicity of maidenhood,
and they cannot be too prudent in respect to
the company they keep and the inflnences
which they allow themselves to be made subject
to.


WOMAN’S' EXPONENT.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.
				    —
	Work on the Temple is progressing finely
this season. It is really gratifying to take an
occasional close survey of the structure and
workmanship of such a splendid edifice.
	Will the Presidents of the Relief Societies
please notice Sister E. R. Snow’s note at the
head of the editorial in number 18, Oct. 10th, of
the Exponent? Some of the Secretaries are
sending us reports in which no reference is
made to it, or the proposed changing of the
name of the Society.
	Hons. George Q. Cannon and Wm. H.
Hooper left this City for Washington, to repre- 
sent Utah in Congress, on Wednesday, 27th ult.
The latter gentleman is the Territorial Dele-
gate for the present session; and the former is
Delegate elect, to take his sea on the 4th of
March next with the assembling of the lately
elected Congress.
	A brief synopsis of the doings of the general
retrenchment meetings conducted in this city,
will hereafter occupy a space in our Relief
Society Reports, for the benefit of ladies resid-
ing in different parts who have not the privilege
of personal attendance. At the same time, all
who have opportunities, should not fail of being
present at these meetings.
	General Thos. L. Kane, whose eloquent
account of the “Expulsion of the Mormons from
Nauvoo” will be familiar to most of our readers,
has been paying our city a visit with his wife
and two children. The heartfelt prayers of
thousands have often been offered up for him,
for the truthful and noble manner in which he
recorded the acts and sufferings of a devoted
people in their struggles to preserve their
religious liberty. He is on his way to Cali-
fornia, seeking health and recuperation, by
direction of his physician. We regret to learn,
though, that Mrs. Kane contracted a severe
cold on their way this far westward.
	Hon. Jas. G. Blair, of Missouri, Member of
Congress, whose eloquent speech in the Hall of
Representatives, last session, in behalf of the
people, and especially of the women, of Utah,
called forth a letter of acknowledgements from
some of our leading ladies, and a courteous
response from the gentleman, paid a brief visit
to this City lately. If men with such broad,
generous, and liberal views were elected by
every constituency throughout the country,
to represent them in Congress, there would be
no fear of Constitutional provisions being tran-
scended to work persecution, through form of
law, against a people because of their honest
faith and worship.


﻿[Written for the Exponent.
LOVE THY NEIGHBOR AS THYSELF.
			  ——
	Most Christians set this commandment
down as being too difficult to be reduced to
practice—too utterly fanatic for serious con-
sideration; but, if properly understood, in
its true meaning and intent, they would
recognize one of the most beautiful and
heavenly lessons to mankind.
	It does not enjoin that we “prefer” our
neighbor’s interests to our own, nor even
that we should not help ourselves “first”; but
that we should do all for our neighbors that
we could desire to have done for us under
corresponding circumstances; that we should
be as willing to see them prosper as to pros-
per ourselves; as glad to have them take
pleasure as to be happy ourselves; as well
pleased to hear them well spoken of as to
receive praise for our own merits. This
will not be hard to do when we look at it in
a clear light.
	It is an admitted fact, that a nation’s
honor reflects great lustre on the character
of its humblest citizen; and as a nation’s
honor is individual excellence often repeated,
can it be denied that the man or woman
whose walk in life is patriotic, brave, high-
minded or in any other way noble, so far,
loves his neighbor as himself? How beauti-
ful the arrangement, that to serve one’s self
conscientiously and faithfully, is the very
best way fo serve the public! By the person
who lives a pure life, are neighbors
served beyond compute; for in the sight of
the young, the example is more valuable
than untold gold. The one who originates
any wise, order-producing regulation in
one’s own business or household, has con-
ferred a blessing on the race. Those who
build dwellings which are models of beauty,
economy or convenience, confer benefits on
the public. Those who introduce improve-
ments on the farm, in the dairy or any other
place, have truly loved their neighbors.
And those who most conscientiously and
truly serve the public, do most adequately
and effectually serve themselves! One who
zealously guards the welfare of a country
or community builds the strongest defense
around one’s individual welfare. One who
makes great improvements in public works,
greatly increases the value aud security of
private property. Those who most truly
consider the happiness of their fellow
creatures are most certain to win it for
themselves.
	What better legacy can be left to the
world, than highly educated and purely
moral descendants? And how is it possible
to secure, without danger of failure, a good
education to one’s own descendants, save by
founding institutions and systems for the
broad diffu sion of knowledge, and in-
cluding one’s own in the general blessing?
If you create a deep and wide-spread interest
in the cause of mental cultivation, you erect
a barrier between the public and many an
evil; which evils, had they been allowed to
gain influence might have created an
opposing current strong enough to counter-
act all your labors in behalf of your own, if
confined to them.
	It is almost impossible to keep your
children untainted while those of your
neighbors are not circumspect; for if you
undertake to keep them entirely apart, the
chances are that you will fail miserably In
your design. If you should succeed, it would
be a doubtful gain; because children are
reasonable beings and must know a cause for
any admonition, and to be told that others
were not fit to associate with them, would
engender vanity and superciliousness, two
[new column]
evils quite as hurtful and more lasting than
childish rudeness, and ill-breeding.
	Now what is to be done? “Love thy
neighbor as thyself!” Bear with thy neigh-
bors’ children. Not exactly by making
them bosom friends, but by pitying their un-
tutored, uncherished condition. Pefrain
from speaking of them with unmitigated
disgust and scorn. When you can, without
injury to any one else, throw into their way
some little pleasure coupled with a kind
word, which will be as a beam of light in
their clouded lives. Rest assured they will
be a little better for it. And this is all you
could ask for yonr own in like circum-
stances.
	If you are anxious to have your dear
ones adhere strictly to the rules of temper-
ance, that their nerves may be unshaken,
their intellects untrammeled and all their
faculties fully and harmoniously developed,
be sure there is no more certain way than to
inaugurate a general movement in that
direction; endeavor to make it “the fashion”
to abstain from every kind of stimulant and
every kind of excess. Organize abstemious
associations—with watchwords of modera-
tion.
	The more means and influence a person
possesses, and the more prominent the
position he or she occupies, the more bind-
ing upon that individual is the duty. “Love
thy neighbor as thyself;” because the sphere
is wide and the power to do good, greater;
and just in accordance with the use made of
opportunities offered, so shall judgment be
awarded. It has been said and truly, that
character is no more the outgrowth of pri-
vate teaching, than of the spirit of the age
in which it is nurtured. How important,
then, to lend every energy toward shaping
the “spirit of the age” in a healthy
direction! How unselfishly should all pa-
triots labor to leave behind them on the
pages of history, bright precedents for future
statesmen to copy! How earnestly should
parents desire to improve the moral tone of
the society into which their children are to
enter.
	As persuasion is more powerful than
coercion, let the sinner be pointed to the
better way, and taught the beauty of holi-
ness, rather than upbraided and denounced
for his or her short comings; for as the
meanest beggar will not part with his rags
on being told they are foul unless he can
obtain something better, so will not the
erring forsake their errors until convinced
of a better way.
							L. L. D.


TO CLEAN SMOKY PAPER-HANGINGS.--
Take a piece of wood of the shape of a
scrubbing-brush, nail a handle on the back,
then upon the face nail a piece of dried
sheepskin with the wool upon it, or flax or
tow will do, or cotton-flannel of several
thicknesses will answer very well. Dip this
brush into dry whiting, and rub the smoke
lightly with the brush, on the upper parts
of the room first, protecting the carpet with
matting of newspapers, as the whiting-dust
is hard to sweep off a carpet. The whiting
that remains on the wall is easily brushed
off with a soft cloth attached to a stick. It
is very effectual if the room is not damp and
the whiting is dry.


﻿ENJOY THE blessings of this day if God
sends them, and the evils bear patiently
and sweetly, for this day only is ours; we
are dead to yesterday, and are not born to
the morrow.


﻿THE loveliest adornment of perfect
womanhood is unconsciousness of self.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿A WORD FROM ST. GEORGE.
				—
	ST. GGORGE, UTAH, NOV. 15, 1872.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	Permit me to have a few words with your
numerous and intelligent readers, upon a
topic as old as Eden, and as lovely, fragrant
and interesting as a full blown rose—namely--
	HOME AND FLOWERS.	
I place those words in connection as befng
the dearest among the 40,000 contained in
our natal language. I love flowers, and often
ask myself what is a home “without flow-
ers?” And ask your readers—what sort of
children would those be reared in a home
destitute of flowers? From my stand-point
experience and observation, I will say, they
will lack that chastity of ideas, and that
pleasing refinement of feeling, that gentle-
ness of demeanor, that tenderness and love,
which so much endears the child to its
mother and friends. Children naturally
love flowers, and a little encouragement in
assisting them to plants, seeds, a place to
use them, together with a little advice, and
most children readily become florists.
Flowers yield a fragrance only equalled by
their beauty. Are you sad? go among your
flowers and you at once feel comforted. Are
you excited or angry? go at once amid the
bloom of your garden, gladden your eyes
with the beauties around you, and inhale
the soothing perfumes, and your nerves will
soon become wonderfully calm. Do the
toils, cares, and trials of life bow you down
and discourage? go and commune with
nature’s floral gems, and you are soothed,
comforted and strengthened to go on. Are
you skeptical in regard to divinity and its
attributes? spend a day with the plants and
flowers; with a microscope examine the
beauties of form and color, of the minute
particles that compose them; then ask your-
selves, whence came they? Did you ever
hear profanity uttered by any one admiring
flowers? If so, it has been seldom, for
flowers influence to gentleness, to refine-
ment, to morality, to religion. Flowers are
easily grown. They are but weeds taken
from uncultivated nature in various parts of
the earth. Plant them in your gardens,
along the walks, in your front yards, around
your houses, on porch and veranda, in the
windows of your parlors, kitchens—every-
where that light and heat may reach; let a
pot with some flowering, fragrant, or orna-
mental, plant be placed. The care of these
will assist any lady to while away pleasur-
ably many an idle or spare moment. If
you would rear your children uncontamin-
ated with the vices and crimes learned in
the streets, rear flowers and fruit for them,
and teach them to feel an interest in these;
and provide books and other allurements in
abundance, and your children will stay at
home, and seldom fail to be intelligent and
a comfort. Home and flowers—ever one
and inseperable.					FLORA.


﻿Written for the EXPONENT.
	WOMAN'S SPHERE.
			—
	Any pursuit which is calculated to draw 
the thoughts and interests of women from
the charms of the kitchen, the nursery, the
flower garden, home, altogether, is a falla- 
cious one. The chief object which actuates
the mind to exert itself in preparing paths,
delightful for the feet to walk in, labors
pleasurable for the hands to perform, struc-
tures of whatever nature beautiful for the
eyes to behold or the senses to contemplate,
is that happiness may be secured. Many
of the “strong minded” women of the
present period have wrought within them-
selves the strange belief that the magnifi-
cent pedestal around which are hung the 
pure and lovely adornments of virtuous, in-
nocent, yet intelligent enjoyment, cannot
be erected within the circumscribed cofines
of domestic felicity, But when a home is
what it should be, it possesses all the
elements necessary for providing each of its
inmates with suitable occupations for head
and hands, at least, a portion of the time.
And no woman will ever be more abun-
dantly blessed or the recipient of more real
enjoyment, than she finds herself in filling
faithfully the sphere most wisely and
graciously alloted to her, that of a true wife
and mother; which is at once the most noble,
dignified and graceful position she can
occupy. Ambition may induce her to under-
value that sphere, which she considers un-
worthy her gifted intellectual powers; or
she may be prompted by holier motives, for
regeneration and reform, to leave her bright-
est and best prospects for tranquil happiness
to the care of servants, while she gives her
attention to public concerns. In either case
she will meet with disappointment, and
sooner or later find out her mistake. To
labor publicly under the selfish incitement
of gaining individual popularity, is an un-
wise and undignified course; and woman
is not likely to introduce any great reform-
ation by following man in this respect.
Necessity may some time compel women to
quit their homes and accept situations in
various walks of life mostly filled by men;
but while every position in which a liveli-
hood may be gained by honest industry, is 
ever honorable if honorably filled, no woman’s
time should be so fully occupied, could it
be avoided, in any employment that she
cannot supervise, in some degree, her own
domestic concerns. Many a woman saves
more by her frugal management, in a week,
than several might earn at hard labor in a
month. One bright, cheerful home, with its
healthy, happy inmates will create more
real sun-shine than a dozen hotels and
boarding houses with all their idle, gossip-
ing occupants. Why should woman seek to
become assistant ruler of the nations in any
other sphere, than that of the regulation
and government of the dearest and most
pleasant spot on earth—her home? INEZ.


﻿TO BE free from desire, is money; to be
free from the rage of perpetually buying
something new is a certain revenue; to be
content with what we possess, constitutes
the greatest and most certain of riches.


﻿A REMARKABLE  case of catalepsy oc-
curred last week at Fort Wayne, Indiana.
A little girl, three years old, was supposed
to have died, and every preparation for the
funeral was made two days thereafter.
While the funeral services were in progress,
and the body of the child was about to be
conveyed to the tomb, the supposed corpse
revived, and to the great surprise and joy of
mourning friends the child was again re-
stored to life, and has now fully recovered.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.
				—
	The first boy mentioned in the Bible—
Chap. I.
	Kittens are superseding lap-dogs for
street-wear.
	Lady ushers are the latest wrinkle for
fashionable weddings in New York.
	The latest medical mania in France is an
almost exclusive diet of water cresses.
	Kellogg’s dresses in “La Traviata” are
magnificent, and were made by Worth.
	Bret Harte’s father was formerly Princi-
pal of the Hudson (New York) Academy.
	Little Raven, the Arapahoe, has a head
ust like Beecher’s and is an eloquent orator.
	The present Czar of Russia is so in-
temperate that his physicians say he cannot
live many months.
	Prince Leopold, Queen Victoria’s young-
est son, will commence a course of study at
Oxford this October term.
	In the long course of his legal practice
Mr. Seward was never known to act for
a man against a woman.
	Froude safely passed those two dreaded
bugaboos of the ocean voyage—Hell’s Gate
and the newspaper interviewer.
	John Parker, who at one time had the
reputation of being the fastest type setter
in Texas, died lately in Huntsville.
	The late Benjamin Abbott of Boston, left;
bequests amounting to over $80,000, of
which $10,000 went to the Universalists.
	Mrs. Joseph Spinney has given $20,000
for the construction of a Methodist chapel
at Great Neck, L. I., and $10,000 for its
maintenance.
	Ex-Governor Magoffin, of Kentucky, has
discovered and entered as Government land
an island in Lake Superior, containing about
1,200 acres of good land.
	Mrs. Partington has been reading the
health officers’ weekly reports, and thinks
“total” must be an awful malignant disease,
since as many die of it as of all the rest put
together.
	Horace B. Claflin, the New York dry
goods prince, once insisted on paying $50,000
revenue tax in addition to the regular
assessment, believing that amount was
honestly due the Government.
	Mrs. Chapman and Mrs. Chassellette,
widows of the engineer and fireman who
were killed on the Erie Railway by the
negligence of the train dispatcher in tele-
graphing, have each recovered over $5,000
damages against the Erie Railway.
	Thiers ordinarily dresses in a suit of
black broadcloth, frock coat and decidedly
ancient trousers. He wears an old-fash-
ioned New England high shirt collar, and
invariably carries an umbrella or cane, upon
which he leans while shuffling along the
boulevard.	
	At a trades’ meeting the following toast
was given: “The printer—he beats the
farmer with his hoe, the carpenter with his
rule, the mason in setting up columns; he
surpasses the lawyer and doctor in attend-
ing cases, and beats the parson in the
management of the devil.”
	Cleopatra’s Needle is to be removed from
Alexandria to London. This obelisk origin-
ally stood at Heliopolis, and was brought
down to Alexandria by one of the Caesars
and was, in 1852, presented by Mohammed
Ali to the British Government. It is seventy
feet high, and at the base is seven feet
seven inches in diameter.


﻿KING SMITH.—A notable personage has just 
died—Mr. Augustus Smith, King of the Scilly
Islands, of which there are 140, although
only six are inhabited. Mr. Smith was a 
wealthy and crotchety Englishman, who 
in regard to government had notions of his
own which he wished to carry into practice, 
and so he became lessee of the Scilly Islands, 
under the County of Cornwall. He thus be- 
came king of about two thousand subjects, 
most of whom were a wretched lot of
peasants, for the islands are poor and unfruit-
ful. With a court of twelve men he ruled
the land, readjusted the relations of land and
people, and attended generally to their moral,
social, and religious status, although in the 
latter item he was not very strict.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿ADVICE TO A YOUNG BROTHER.
				——
	Do not be anxious to leave the dear ones
to whom you are indebted for your mortal
existence, as long as you can earn and ob-
tain a livelihood by clinging to them. There
will be time enough in which you may
learn to do without them, when you can no
longer avoid being thus thrust upon your
own resources. Do not imagine that because
your father is not a rich man and cannot
afford to support you without work, and
send you to the high school, you cannot be-
come educated and wise and great. The
worfd is full of knowledge, and there is no
lack of books and periodicals, which treat on
all the arts and sciences. The gaining of
wisdom is within the reach of all. For God
did not create His children to be drones,
and yet He requires nothing of them that
He does not find means for their obtaining.
Application is all that is necessary to make
a mind bright, reflective and intellectual.
Do not think too much of amassing wealth
and makinga “big show” in the world. Riches
cannot purchase happiness. They may help
to augment it, but are frail supports, liable
to slip away at any moment, and hopes and
aspirations which are built upon them are
in constant danger of being dashed to the
ground. Your safest, surest way of erecting
a defense against misfortune and want is in
learning a useful trade. Do not imagine
that because the hands of a clerk are soft
and white, while yours are hardened with
labor, and sun-burnt, that people of sense or
even good taste admire him and scorn you.
Remember that but for the energies of the
tradesmen, there would be no store-rooms
built, and no goods to store. Honor your
position in society and it will be honorable.
Always treat others with proper respect, and
you will be respectable and respected. Be
temperate in all your habits, and you will
never need to be troubled with doctor’s bills.
Be strictly honest in all you dealings and you
will always find better use for you money
than paying lawyers’ fees. Be virtuous and
industrious, and you will become wealthy
and great. Love God and serve Him, and
you will always be happy.
									L.


﻿WOMEN’S FOREHEADS.
				  ——
	When phrenology first began to attract
attention as a science, high foreheads of
women, as well as of men, were associated
with intellect.
	Every member of the opposite sex, how-
ever dull or uncultivated she may be,
admires mental gifts, and has no objection
to the reputation of possessing them herself;
consequently she determined to have the
seeming, if not the reality, and stripped her
forehead of the clustering tresses, and even
removed the hair by artificial means, that
she might present a front which would
awake the enthusiasm of Gall or Spurzheim.
	For a number of years this mania for
high foreheads raged in spite of the patent
fact that they detracted from their feminine
loveliness, giving it a hard, bold, masculine
expression that should be sedulously avoided.
All the classic models of beauty, whether in
marble or on canvas, from the Venus and
Phyrne down to the Marys of Raphael and
the Magdaleus of Murillo, the picturesque
damsels of the Campagna, and the classic
Suliote maidens, instead of high have quite
low foreheads—something our own women
would seem at last to have discovered.
	Horace, and Catullus, and Ovid all sang of
the fair, fond creatures whose white fore-
heads gleamed like the crescent moon be-
neath the dark cloud of silken hair.


﻿Artists have so painted feminine beauty.
Men of taste and gallantry have admitted
such. Phrenology has ceased to be connected
with aesthestic subjects, and therefore we
have returned to nature and art. Indeed,
the passion now is rather for low foreheads,
for hair over the temples, and lovelocks
that shade the lustre of deep eyes.
	This is rather overdone—but it is prefer-
able to lofty foreheads and stripped brows,
that make the face more fitting for a Roman
senator than a genteel, tender, womanly
woman. Every man of taste must rejoice
that something like an approximation to
the old models and correct standard of femi-
nine loveliness has been established, and
they are no longer painted with
	“High white fronts that tell of power
	Which ne’er is fashioned by the gentle heart."


﻿Aged beauty.—Some one writes of the
beauty of old people. Who of us but have
seen this beauty, perchance upon an aged
grandmother, perhaps upon a mother ripen-
ing for Heaven, catching the radiance of
celestial glory ere they departed. He says:
“Lord Lytton speaks in one of his novels of
a man who was uglier than he had any
business to be; and if he could but read it,
every human being carries his life in his face,
and is good looking or the reverse as that
life has been good or evil. On our features
the fine chisel of thought and emotion are
eternally at work. Beauty is not the mon-
opoly of blooming young men and of pink
and white maidens. There is a slow-grow-
ing beauty which only comes to perfection
in old age. Grace belongs to no period of
life and goodness improves the longer it
exists. I have seen sweeter smiles from a lip
of seventy than upon a lip of seventeen.
There is the beauty of youth and the beauty 
of holiness—a beauty much more seldom
met and more frequently found in the arm-
chair by the fire, with grandchildren around
its knee. Husband and wife, who have
fought the world side by side, who have made
common stock of joy and sorrow and grown
aged together, are not unfrequently found
curiously alike in pitch and tone of voice—
just as twin Pebbles on the beach, exposed
to the same tidal influences, are each other’s
second self. he has gained a feminine some-
thing, which brings his manhood into full
relief. She has gained a masculine some-
thing which acts as a foil to her woman-
hood.”—Ex.


﻿The evil done by the first utterer of a
slander is small compared with that which
is spread through a community from the re-
petition of the false tale by idle babblers.
These persons would fain excuse themselves
by alleging that they had heard it from Hr.
So and-so, a Mrs. Such-a-one, or they shelter
themselves under the common generalities
of “people say,” or “they say.” Counter-
feited coins and bank-notes, however ingen-
iously executed, do no harm if they remain
in the hands of the original forger. It is by
their circulation that the people suffer.
Somebody once said to a sage: “A man
slandered you in my presence.” “If,”
replied the wise man, “you had not listened
with pleasure, he would not have defamed
me.” The remark was a just one.


﻿This is the way St. Louis ’squires aid suf-
fering young people, according to the
“Democrat:” “A loving couple called on
Justice Jecko to get married. On examina-
he learned the girl was not yet 18, and he
told her to go up street to another justice,
and by the time she reached there she would
probably be old enough. Upon this hint the
lovers brightened up, and on the next trial
accomplished their purpose.”


﻿THE SEX.
			      —
	One of Fanny Fern's daughters lives at
St. Paul.
	Three English ladies recently achieved
the ascent of Mont Blanc, and had a trium-
phant recption on their return.
	Laura Sainz, Marchioness of Patayama,
late lady-in-waiting to Queen Isabella, is
making a fortune on the lyric stage in Italy.
	For domestic reasons, Kate Fields will be
unable to lecture in the West at all this sea-
son, and will be obliged to curtail the
number of her engagements in the East.
	“I'm not used to begging,” said a little
girl to a lady of whom she had asked alms,
“ ’cause only two weeks ago my father was
a merchant!”
	"Why, child, how could you be reduced
to poverty so soon?”
	“My father took a bad two-dollar bill at
his peanut-stand, and it ruined him,” sob-
bed the child.
	When a child, Pauline Lucea manifested
such a decided taste for drawing as well as
for music, that for a while her mother was
disposed to let the former inclination prevail.
She took daily lessons in drawing, but was
also allowed to go on with her vocal studies.
She made wonderful progress in the use of
her pencil, yet such was her proficiency in
singing that very soon there was no question
that her true vocation was music.
	“It is a fact,” says Mr. Scudamore, “that
a telegraph clerk in London, who was
engaged on a wire to Berlin, formed an
acquaintance with, and an attachment to a
female clerk who worked on the same wire
in Berlin, that he made a proposal to her
and that she accepted him without having
seen him. They were married, and the
marriage resulting from their electric affini-
ties is supposed to have turned out as well
as those in which the senses are apparently
concerned.”
	There was a social meeting, of five elderly
ladies, sisters, at Concord, at the residence
of R. N. Rice, son of one of them, the
“youngest” of the five being a “greatgrand-
mother,” and their combined ages reaching
three hundred and ninety years, averaging
about eighty years. By arrangement, they
were got together from different parts of
the State, and their re-union under one roof
was as happy an event as it was unexpected
to all of them, they not having been together
for about twenty years.
	Mrs. Florida White, well known in the
fashionable world forty years ago, was one of
the most beautiful, accomplished, elegant
and attractive women of her day. She was
the daughter of Gen. Adair, of Kentucky,
and her first husband was Joseph M. White,
the second delegate sent to Congress from
the Territory of Florida. Highly educated,
full of genius, her society was courted by
the most elevated circles in Washington,
New Orleans, New York and Boston. She
was a brilliant conversationalist, ready and 
effective at repartee, and a sincere, warm-
hearted gentlewoman of the most gracious
and generous impulses. On one of her visits
to Rome she was presented to the Pope.
	“Kneel, my daughter,” said he, as she
stood erect in her imperial grace before
him. All kneel to me except the daughters
of sovereigns.”
	“I am a princess in my own right, Your
Holiness,” she replied.
	“How can that be, when you are an
American born?” “In my country the people
are sovereign, and I am a daughter of the 
people.”
	The Pope smiled a gracious assent, rejoin- 
ing, “Then receive an old man’s blessing.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A﻿ PRIZE!

	Should be in every housel
		The SINGER SEWING MACHINE!
Will do the most delicate and elegant, as well as
the strongest or plainest, sewing, in a style un-
equalled by any other Machine. Received the first
diploma at the Territorial Fair, in October last. Its
Embroidery attachment is an object of general ad-
miration.
	More of the Singer are sold than of any other.
Machine. Call and see them at the Singer Sewing
Machine Department, two doors south of Eagle
Emporium, Salt Lake City.
				Z. C. M. I. General Agents.

SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.
	We would respectfully call your attention to the
fact, that we have one of the Largest and best Stocks
of Ladies’, Misses’ and Children’s FURS in Sets, as
also Capes and Collars (separate), that will be found
in this City. Also a large assortment of Fine Shoes
of Philadelphia and California make.
	The above goods we will sell at the lowest possible
price. 
							DUNFORD & SONS,
									Salt Lake City.

DR. W. H. GROVES,
							DENTIST,
	Office Second-South Street, Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
		Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,.
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street, 

Z. C. M. I.
	Retail Dry Goods Department.
	We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
riety of our Patrons,
	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated
			SALT LAKE GLOVES.
Children’s Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty.
	While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics
of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,
Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-
est possible figure.
				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup’t.

Campbell & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for Woman’s Exponent.
				
				JOHNSON’S
		HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES!
Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-
	ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.

	BONESET PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.

	EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.
	
	CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.
	
	ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills. Price 50 cents.

	These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at

		ZION’S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,

Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.

	If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them.

	Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.

	AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.

From the Laboratory of
						J. E. JOHNSON
							St. George, Utah.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

			WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

		A UTAH LADIES’ JOURNAL.	
	
	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.

	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.

	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves ? "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!"

	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of Woman’s Exponent, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.

	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.

	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.

	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In Woman’s Exponent a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.

	Woman’s Exponent will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.

	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1 Copy one year, $2.00	1 Copy six months, $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months, 9.00

	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

	Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers Woman’s Exponent, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


Woman's Exponent.
﻿VOL. I.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1872. No. 14.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Horace Greeley was born on the 3rd of
February, 1811, and died on the 23rd of
November 1872.
	The case of Stokes Is not yet decided.
And Jim Fisk is said to have a successor in
Nooman Henry Smith of Wall street.
	The wife of Father Hyancinth is re-
ported a very amiable, intelligent and at-
tractive lady, and devotedly attached to her
husband.
	In his late message to the Senate and
House of Representatives President Grant
does not forget Utah, but he fails to mention
Woman Suffrage.
	“A Crowning domestic disappointment,”
is what a San Francisco paper styles a Chi-
naman, If John could read that wouldn’t
he feel complimented?
	The gas stokers' strike, in London, is
likely to terminate in their being compelled
to “strike alight” once more at the old price,
though the new “strike” has not the appear-
ance of being “all gas.”
	An Exchange says on the question
“Shall ladies ride astride?” “It does not
seem half so dangerous for a lady as for a
politition to attempt it.” To us, it would
seem very unbecoming for either.
	Two 180 pound balls suspended by a cord
from the teeth, while holding a 100-pound
ball in each hand; and the shouldering of a
500-pound cannon, is a story of rather large
dimensions to be told of a woman on the
London stage, but it is said to be true.
	General O. C. Maxwell, a gallant officer,
who was wounded five times in war, while
fighting for his country, shot and killed
himself at Dayton, Ohio, recently, as if de-
termined to die by violence at last, though
tempted Providence had so long and kindly
guarded him.
	In Tofsfield, Massachusetts, an aged
couple have lately celebrated the 60th
anniversary of their wedding day; and the
kind old gentleman had the candor and good-
ness of heart to acknowledge, as many a one
might who never does, that “under God he
owed his success in life, mainly to the
untiring devotion of the good woman at his
side.”
	The Distinguished Swiss scientist, Pro-
fessor Carl Vogt, is shortly to visit America.
Excursionists, journalists, lecturers, and
travelers of every profession and of every
nation are, without pausing to realize the
fact making it plainly manifest that this is
the day of which it is spoken, “Many shall
run to and fro and knowledge shall be in-
creased.”
	Indulgence in the “social glass” and
then in the contemptable jug is daily prov-
ing the destruction of thousands who, in
other respects have every chance for becom-
ing distinguished as men of honor and
superiority. Will the time ever come when
such individuals will listen to that impor-
tuning in which exists their only safeguard,
“Touch not, O taste not the wine!”
	Reports of the progress of the opening
band of subscriptions for providing for the
celebration of the 100th anniversary of
American Independence—the Centennial, to
be held at Philadelphia, in the year 1876—
are unfavorable. The people “don’t see it.”
They have, many of them, lost sight of the
old Constitution; and no wonder. Their
teachers and rulers have laid it aside.
	In some parts of Japan, married women
have a strange method for securing their
loyalty to their husbands. That no one may
be tempted by their beauty, they disfigure
themselves by shaving their eyebrows and
blacking their teeth with fine betal nut; a
precaution which is said, however, to be
unnecessary, as beauty among them is very
rare, and after marriage they fail rapidly.
	To prevent her money being taken by
burglers, should any happen to call in her
absence, on leaving home, a New York lady
concealed $450 in the ashpan. Contrary to
her expectations, her husband went home
before she did and in starting a fire, inno-
cently made a burnt offering of the green-
backs. That lady’s precaution against
thieves is rather too flimsy to recommend
itself.
	An exchange avers that in Yorkville,
Tennessee, they are determined to have the
gospel in peace, if they are compelled to
fight for it, as proven by a man named
Sharkey being promptly shot on the spot for
causing disturbance in a meeting there.
But it is bettr to offer timely warning before
shooting, and possibey preserve order by
threats, as some of the gentle worthies out
West imagine they do some times, than to
really, positively “shoot!’
	New York papers tell of a fearful
explosion of 500 pounds of nitro-glycerine
in Yonkers, N. Y., by which two young
men were blown to atoms, another mortally
wounded and a fourth, severely but not
fatally injured; and general havoc produced
for miles around, in so much that many
believed that an earthquake had taken place,
and very great consternation prevailed.
Thus daily disasters are occurring on every
hand and in every manner.
	A young artist in England has the
wonderful capacity of seeing with the naked
eye the most minute objects, which ordin-
ary eyesight can only distinguish when
highly magnified; such as the infusoria
contained in water. Scientists who have
examined into the case pronounce the mag-
nifying powers of his vision about five
hundred diameters. This singularity of
sight was occasioned by a transformation
of the eye caused by a peculiar disease when
quite young.
	Queen Victoria is living in the plainest
possible style, and is said to spend much of
her time in the open air; walking and riding
often crossing the Dee and always using in
her rides, an uncovered carriage, a phaeton
or a wagonnette. No ceremonious a-do at-
tends her, but the royal carriage is preceded
by an outrider, who sees that the way is
clear, and the Queen goes quietly on with a
smile and a bow for every one who chances
to meet her. A “picnic” in the woods is
frequently enjoyed by the Queen and her
ladies, and at such times no chair of honor
is provided for her, but she finds a seat on
the clump of a tree or any other suitable
place. This lady has never given to her
subjects a more befitting lesson than the life
of humility, virtue and sense which she
lives may afford as an example.
	The educational advantages of the
country are progressing so rapidly, and
have, indeed, already gained so great an
eminence that there is no longer any excuse
for men or women to cast reflections on cir-
cumstances or waste time in vain regret
that they have not opportunities of basking
in the hallowed sunbeams of intelligence.
Time and application with present and
coming capacity, will make philosophers
and scientists for the people. But will the
light obtained be used to elevate and enoble
the nations yet to be, or will degeneration
still continue to control the paths in
which we tread, mocking reason and
bidding defiance to the laws of nature and of
nature’s God! We can only prognosticate
what will be the result of certain courses.
	Affairs In France assume a serious
character. Late dispatches say that trouble
is apprehended, and present indications
justify such apprehensions. The monarch-
ists, it is stated, have endeavored to force a
vote, without delay, on a proposition to
censure the Government in a rigid manner,
and repudiate the republic formally. A
proposition in an other form, making con-
cessions which were then thought satisfac-
tory, and a motion to postpone the vote on
the main question for a day, prevailed. A
vote was afterwards passed on a question
censuring a minister and the Government 
for courting popularity with the municipali- 
ties. It is reported that MacMahon, who
is commander-in-chief of the French army,
and Ducrot, who holds an important com-
mand, refuse to obey orders of others than
the monarchists of the Assembly. A civil
war in France is almost threatening to
follow shortly, as the people are opposed to
a monarchy; but might accept the Napoleonic
Empire.
	Dr. Chapin, who delivered the funeral
address of Horace Greeley, stated that his
last words were “I know that my Redeemer
liveth. It is done.” The funeral of this
great man, which took place at New York
on the 3rd inst., as reported, was the grand-
est and most imposing ever witnessed
on this continent. The corpse was viewed 
by 50,000 people, and at the funeral were 
present 100,000 strangers. The working
people from all parts crowded in to take
a farewell glance at the face of their friend
and benefactor, and feelings of regret and
signs of emotion were demonstrated both by
acquaintances and strangers. Thurlow
Weed said of him among other eulogiums, 
“Looking back over Greeley’s life I think
he showed as much unselfish ambition as
any man that ever lived. His whole life
was given to opposing injustice and oppres-
sion. His character was perfectly pure. He
had no vices that I know of, and I was most
intimate with him in all matters. He was
fearless in the expression of his belief in
what was right. His whole aim was to do 
good.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿BIRTHDAY MUSINGS.
 		  —
	TO A FRIEND.
		  —
	We are falling,
	We are falling,
In the sear and yellow leaf,
	Time is calling,
	Time is calling,
Telling us that he's the thief
	That is stealing,
	That is stealing,
All our youthful form away;
All the time he keeps revealing,
He is making us his prey.

	Hair is shewing,
	Hair is shewing,
Silver threads within each braid;
	Eyes are growing,
	Eyes are growing,
Dimmer in our later grade.

	Steps are slower,
	Steps are slower,
As the downward path we tread
	Voice is lower,
	Voice is lower,
Bow’d is oft the weary head.

	Shall we sorrow,
	Shall we sorrow,
That our life is in decline?
	There’s a morrow
	There’s a morrow
"Where eternal suns will shine!

	My Mother Earth
	My Mother Earth!
In thy bosom we shall sleep;
Thou alone and not another,
Shall those sacred vigils keepl
	Till the morning,
	Till the morning,
When the resurection, comes—
Then with all a Brides’ adorning
Christ will take us to our Homes—

	Ready waiting,
	Ready waiting,
All prepar’d by Beauty’s hand,
	All dilating,
	All dilating,
On the scene I now command.

	God of Heaven!
	God of Heaven!
Hold us that we never fall!
	All forgiven,
	All forgiven,
God and we be All in All
G. S. L. City.	 	  HANNAH T. KING.


F.R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
				—
			Salem, Utah Co., Utah.
					Nov. 20th 1872.
Editor Exponent:—
	We held a meeting ou the 21st inst., of
which I send a short report. Meeting was
opened by singing “How beautious are their
feet,” prayer by Counselor Mrs. Lucinda
Jackman; minutes of previous meeting
were read and accepted. Counselor Mrs. L.
Jackman then addressed the meeting, spoke
upon the training of our children, the duty
of mothers towards their daughters, urging
them to set patterns worthy of imitation,
look after the sick and needy; said she
was pleased with the spirit of interest
which the sisters manifested in all that per-
tains to the Society. In compliance with
the suggestion of Sister Snow a motion was
made and seconded that we drop the word
“Female” from the name of the Society;
carried unanimously, a report of the same
to be forwarded to the Exponent. Meeting
adjourned until first Thursday in Decem-
ber. Benediction; by Mrs. Elizabeth B.
Davis.
			M. P. Killian, Secretary.
				—
				Nephi, Dec. 1st 1872.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
According to the suggestions  Sister Eliza
R. Snow, at a meeting of the Relief Socitey.
held at this place on the 17th of October, the
word “Female” was dropped from the name
of our Society, by a unanimous vote. You
[new column]
will please excuse me for this delay in report-
ing, as I have a large family to attend to
and it seems almost impossible for me to get
time to write more than I am obliged to for
the Society. And another tning, I feel my
incompetency to write any thing worthy the
scrutiny of the public eye. I do not feel
proud to see my name in your paper; still, I
like to do my duty if I know what it is. I
have set out for salvation in the Kingdom
of our God, and am determined with the
help of my good husband and the watch-care
of my Heavenly Father to win. Our Society
is not as flourishing as we could wish, some
of the members live quite a distance from
our place of meeting, and some are careless,
I think, about attending our meetings, but
there are the faithful few that feel it aduty
as well as a pleasure to go to meeting, and
do all they can to comfort and bless the
poor.
				M. L. Bigler, Secretary.
				  —
				Big Cottonwood,
					December 2nd 1872.
Editor Exponent:--
	At a meeting of the Relief Society of this
Ward, held 27th November, the word
"Female" in connection with the name of
the Society was dropped.
	We meet semi-monthly, and are making
the best of our time at improvement. We
are trying to gain the victory over diffidence
and backwardness in speaking, and we feel
thankful that our Record Book abounds in
good instruction given from each to each.
	After singing and prayer our meetings
are devoted to teaching and telling our expe-
rience in spiritual and temporal knowledge,
which we consider a very good plan for
mutual improvement. When we deem it
necessary we have sewing meetings, which
are pretty well attended, still, not so well as
they should be, but as a general thing it is
the few who accomplish the greatest amount
of good.
	Our financial condition is good; we intend
very soon commencing to build a hall for
our own use, as we have over 10 shares in
the Co-operative Store and some means on
hand. This, with our industry the cming-
winter enables us to look forward to beocom
fortably situated before this time next year
	We intend giving the very young ladies
some socks to knit, for the benefit of our
building, so that each, no matter how young,
may have an opportunity of lending a help-
ing hand, besides stimulating them to be
liberal and industrious.
	We also look to the necessities of our poor
so that they are not in want.
	Your very valuable and interesting paper
is increasing in esteem and popularity, the
general feeling with us being a desire that
it may meet with every success.
		HARRIET W. BRINTON,
						President,
	ELIZABETH HOWARD,
		1st Counselor and Secretary,
	LAVINA HARPER,
		2d Counselor.
	ELIZABETH BOICE,
		Treasurer.

	PROVO CITY, Dec. 5th, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	A meeting of the 1st Ward Relief Society
was held at the School House on the 5th inst.,
Counselor Mrs. Ann Jones Presiding, Presi-
dent Mrs. Caroline M. Johnson being absent
on account of sickness. After singing, and
prayer by Mrs. Ann Needham, minutes of
the preceding meeting were read and ac-
cepted; Counselors Mrs. Ann Jones and Mrs,
June Allman gave some good instructions
and comforting words. Several of the sisters
[new column]
bore testimony to the truth and expressed 
their desires to do right. The Secretary 
read from the EXPONENT a letter from Miss 
Eliza R. Snow. A vote to drop the word
“Female” from the name of the Relief
Society as suggested by sister E. R. Snow
was carried unanimously.
	Our Society was organized the 14th of 
May 1868; since that time up to May 14th 
1872, we have disbursed to the poor $309;
paid for public expenses $130; we own 
shares in the Provo woolen factory to the 
amount of $200, and in the Co-oporative
Store to the amount of $75, and have in the 
Treasury $96.56. Besides the above dona- 
tions, there have been 297 days work done
by the Society.
	MRS. SOPHY MECHAM Secretary.
	MRS. SARAH H. SANDERSON Tres.	

	Bountiful, Dec. 9th 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	Directly after Conference, at our usual
meeting a unanimous vote was taken to
drop the word “Female” from the name of
our Society, according to Sister Eliza R.
Snow’s suggestion. There is a good feeling
in our Society and a desire with the sisters
to do all they can to help the poor. We
meet twice a month for labor and many of
the destitute and aged have been made to re-
joice in the faithfulness of our exertions. Not-
withstanding many of the sisters live quite
a distance from the place of meeting, they
remember the time appointed and a portion
of them assemble together. THE EXPONENT
is hailed with pleasure. 	E. H. Barlow.
					—
FOURTEENTH WARD ASSEMBLY ROOMS,
	Salt Lake City, Dec. 7th, 1872.
	General Retrenchment Meeting of the
ladies of the several Wards. Singing: Prayer
by Counselor Mrs. E. Howard; Singing:
Minutes of last meeting read by assistant
Secretary Miss Maggie Mair, and accepted.
Opportunity offered for the reading of min-
utes of meetings held by different branches
of the Society. President Mrs. Mary A.
Freeze read the minutes of the last meeting
of the Young Ladies’ Retrenchment Associ-
ation in the 11th Ward; Secretary Miss Abby
Piggot read minutes of two meetings of the
Young Ladies’ Retrenchment Association
of the 8th Ward. Counselor Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball, (President of the Physiological
class,) said she had no apology to make but
regretted that she was not as well qualified as
she would like to be to treat upon the subject
before the meeting, namely, Physiology. It
is a great and important study for every
woman who is or ever expects to become a
mother. We may, by not understading the
was of health, inflict grievious wrong upon
ourselves and those who will come after us.
“True Science and true Religion walk hand
in hand;” the Science of the formation of
the human body is a most wonderful and
beautiful study. Counselor Mrs. Woodruff
said she was pleased with the subject before
us; the longer she lived the more necessity
she saw for the daughters of Zion to inform
themselves upon these matters, which apper-
tain to our present and future salvation.
Mrs. Elenor Pratt did not feel prepared to
treat upon the Science of Physiology but
felt it a very important text. We all can
gain practical knowledge on this subject by
observation. Mrs. W. East felt that the
laws of life, the book of nature were among
the greatest objects of interest to us all. A
temperate life and a prayerful heart pro-
duce a fruitful mind. Further remarks
were made by Z. D. Young and Mrs. Wat-
mouth, and meeting adjourned for two
weeks. Singing; benediction by Counselor 
Mrs. Sarah M. Kilmball.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	A mother who thinks more of the beau-
tiful face and elegant form of her daughter
than of her health and education, is likely,
by neglect of the latter to injure and perhaps
destroy all traces of the former. Healthy
employment for mind and body, with
suitable relaxation and recreation, is the
surest incentive to happiness that can be
found; and without health and happiness,
beauty cannot exist. There is no exercise
better calculated to assist in finely develop-
ing the female form than the various duties
of housekeeping moderately and judiciously
engaged in. The varied motions required
in sweeping floors and making beds, reach-
ing, lifting and swaying are excellent
methods of expanding the chest and giving
proper growth and elasticity to the body
and limbs, besides engendering the spirit of
industry and a desire to be useful in the
young. Carding, spinning and winding
yarn are also healthful employments, but
should not be too rigorously performed at
an early age.
	A tea made of peach leaves is a sure cure
for a kidney difficulty.
	A tea made of chestnut leaves, and
drank in the place of water, is said to cure
the most obstinate case of dropsy.
	A tea made of ripe or dried whortle-
berreies, and drank in the place of water, is
a sure and speedy cure for a scrofulous diffi-
culty, however bad.
	Cruellers.—Two eggs, two tablespoon-
fuls of melted butter, two do of new milk,
four heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar, one
teaspoonful of soda, salt, and flour enough to
make it easy to roll. Cook in hot lard.
	Sponge Roll.—Three eggs, one cup of
sugar, one of flour, one teaspoonful of
cream of tarter, half a spoonful of soda,
rubbed carefully through a sieve. Bake in
a dripping pan, spread with jelly when
warm, and roll.
	Stewed Macaroni.—Boil two ounces of
macaroni in water, drain it well; put into a
saucepan one ounce of butter, mix it well
with one tablespoonful of flour, moisten
with four tablespoonfuls of veal stock, and a
gill of cream, add two ounces of grated par-
mesan, one tablespoonful of mustard, salt
and cayenne to taste; put in the macaroni,
and serve as soon as it is well mixed with
the sauce and quite hot.


SEVENTY YEARS AGO.

	A dear aunt, who is now more than
eighty years old, and still on the sunny side
of life, furnishes us many interesting and
delightful stories which are all the more
beautiful because we can rely on their truth-
fulness; all the more fascinating, because of
the little tinge of romance which her child-
like innocence unwittingly, yet artistically,
draws occasionally, and all the more vener-
ated because they are forty, fifty and seventy
years old and have never been published.
We select the following:
	“It always did me good to wash. Many a time
when a girl at home, I would get up in a morn-
ing feeling half-sick and very miserable. Af-
ter breakfast I would say to mother, ‘I think
I will wash to-day.’ ‘Well, mother would
say, ‘now I shall look out for a good day’s
work, and am sure it will be done.’ Mother
never said to me ‘go to work;' never. But
she often tried to keep me from doing as
much as I wished. Once, I remember,
when I was but ten years old, my sister,
who was two years younger, and I came home
from school at night, mother was weaving


and had used up all the filling that was
spun. ‘Now girls, she said to us, ‘to-mor-
row you will have to stay at home and card
and spin so the loom need not stand idle.'
I felt bad about that, for I disliked to miss
my lessons. Father and mother were in-
vited out for the evening, and would not
return before twelve at night. As soon as
they were gone, I said to my little sister,
'Susan let us go to work and card, and spin
the yarn to-night while mother is gone, so
we can go to school to-morrow.’ We there-
fore set to and I had to contrive to keep
Susan awake; but when father and mother
came home at 12 o’clock I was just finishing
off the last threads. ‘Girls! What are you
about! Put that wheel away this minute!’
said mother. And I did, but the yarn was
spun and sister and I went to school next
day as usual. O! how I used to carry on,
when a girl! Always up to some such
caper to surprise and disappoint, yet please
my mother.”
	The fine dark eyes of the aged narrator
still twinkle and dance with the love of fun
and mischief, and her voice is still musical
and sweet as it trills a little, low laugh, after
telling a story of the long past. And the
listener can only contemplate that such were
America’s daughters seventy years ago.
Where could such a girl be found to-day?
What does the fashionable education which
our young ladies must now acquire to be
considered accomplished and refined, fit
them for? Certainly not for the life of
practical usefulness and sound judgment
which the well earned and substantial
education that venerable lady received, has
made her the happy delineator of.


﻿DECOROUS.
		—
	A Tennessee writer gives the following
telling description of the ostensible prodigy:
“Those who have not seen him ask what
he is like. He is like everything. He’s a
simoon trom India—a gentle zephyr from
the downs of Devon; a whirlpool off the
coast of Norway—an eddy in a New England
trout brook; a tornado from the plains of
Texas—a soothing, summer breeze from the
hop yards of Minesota; an incarnate denun-
ciation—a merciless sweeping Iconoclast; a
miser in praise—a prodigal in abuse; a
modern reversed atlas, who stands on, in-
stead of carrying the world; an over-power-
ing egotist, without vanity; the very light-
ning-bug of possible reformation; the modern
Hercules, who undertakes the job of
cleaning the Augean stables of society,
government, religion, morals, laws, physic,
education—everything.	He’s the credit
Mobelier; the credit financier; the prospec-
tive sextillionaire—the next President of
the United States; the embodiment of
international; a huge syndicate; a “blase”
traveler, who has seen this little world, and
who aspires to a jaunt over Saturn and
adjacent planets. He’s the chain-lightning
orator of the new dispensation; he’s the
reckless bull in the China shop of the world;
he’s a Rochefort on a large scale; a little
Commune all by himself; he’s a self-wind-
ing machine, eontinually throwing off
intellectual hypothesis, and scattering them
broadcast over the world; he’s a human
mower and reaper—mowing down (in his
Imagination) follies and errors, blunders and
iniquities, and reaping all the fame that
comes from improvements time works in its
natural course, he is in fact—Train, who
when dead, can never have an imitator.”


﻿A WRITER says: “It is not the drinking,
but getting sober, that is so terrible in a
drunkard’s life.” Why get sober at all,
then, says old Smiggles.


﻿FLOWERS.
			     —
	Good temper is like a sunny day, shed-
ding brightness on everything.
	John Wesley, at the age of seventeen,
wrote: “I do not remember to have felt low-
ness of spirits for one-quarter of an hour
since I was born.”
	It is worthy of notice that, while second
thoughts are best in matters of judgment,
first thoughts are always to be preferred in
matters that relate to morality.
	Depend upon yourself; riding upon the
shoulders of another is dangerous and foolish.
If you are not cast off into a disagreeable
place, you might be let down in a very
ugly manner, when you least expect it.
	Esteem an act of benignity greatly prefer-
able to munificence; the former is peculiar to
great and distinguished persons; the latter
belongs to flatters of the people who court
the applause of the inconstant vulgar.
	There may exist a sort of love where
the beautiful beacon of untarnished trust
has ceased to shine; but such is not the
love which lights the heart with hope; the
eyes with sympathy and the soul with
gratitude. Such love is only found within
the temple of unbounded, fairly-tried, and
unshaken confidence.
	Life’s Voyage.—In the voyage of life a
man may be wrecked as is a ship. Con-
science, however, is an anchor that will in
most circumstances insure him safety. It
is to be remembered, nevertheless, that like
the anchor, conscience may be carried away,
and so ensure ruin and wreck.
	Revenge is a momentary triumph which
is almost immediately succeeded by remorse;
while forgiveness, which is the noblest of all
revenge, entails a perpetual pleasure! It
was well said by a Roman emperor that he
wished to put an end to all his enemies by
converting them into friends.
	Where education has been entirely neg-
lected or improperly managed, we see the
worst of passions ruling with uncontrolled
and incessant sway. Good sense degener-
ates into craft, and anger rankles into malig-
nity. Restraint, which is thought most
salutary, comes too late, and the most
judicious admonitions are urged in vain.
	The following is an old Jewish story: “A
good man had a good wife; but because
they had no children, they mutually put
away each other. The good man married a
bad (a heathen) wife, and she made him
bad (a heathen;) the good woman married a
bad (a heathen) husband, and she made
him good.”
	The fruits of the earth do not more
obviously require labor and cultivation to
prepare them for our use and subsistance
than our faculties demand instruction and
regulation, in order to become upright and
valuable members of society, useful to
others, or happy and ourselves.—“Barrow.”
	The house will be kept in continual tur-
moil when there is no toleration of each
other’s feelings, no meek submission to
injuries, and no soft answer to turn away
wrath. If you lay a single stick of wood in
the grate, and apply fire to it, it will go out;
put on another stick, and they will burn;
and a half a dozen and you will have an
effective blaze. There are other fires subject
to the same condition.  If one member of a
family gets into a passion, and is left alone,
he will cool down, and possibly be ashamed
and repent. But oppose temper to temper,
let one harsh answer be followed by another,
and there will soon be a blaze which will
enwrap them in its burning heat.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
			LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					   Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
									Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, DECEMBER 15, 1872.


﻿SPLINTERS.
				—
	Froude is ill and his lectures have been
postponed......The will of Mr. and Mrs.
Greeley leaves the property to the two
daughters......A bill has been introduced at
Washington asking the grant of a pension of
$2,000 yearly to the widow of the late Gen-
eral Meade......The public debt statement
shows a decrease of the debt, during the
month of December of $1,198,229......Thiers
consents to remain President if the minis-
ters will withdraw their resignations......In
Lake county, Oregon, the Indians are caus-
ing considerable trouble; all the settlers on
Link river are reported murdered......A
crop of cotton raised this season on the
Pacific coast, turns off over four hundred
ponnds to the acre......Cedarville, Surprise
Valley has had a conflagration......Somebody
has discovered a splendid ledge of stone
coal near the Central Pacific Railroad,
twenty miles from Virginia City......Chris-
tina Rosetti is in a decline......In the Senate,
on the 2nd inst., the Chaplain in his opening
prayer referred to Horace Greeley as one
whose pen had been a benefactor to man-
kind......Prior to the failure of the banking
house of Bowles Bros., New York, Josie
Mansfield is reported to have been a deposi-
tor in that establishment to the amount of
$37,000......The Secretary of the Treasury
reports excess of imports over exports for
the United States in trade with foreign
countries, during the fiscal year, ending
June, 1872, $182,548, 991......Sumner would
have the names of battles with fellow citi-
zens discontinued on the army register, and
never placed on the regimental colors of the
United States......Seamen pronounce late
storms on the lakes, the heaviest ever
known......Brooklyn’s spice mills have re-
cently been consumed by fire......Ball play-
ing, military drill, rowing and archery are
among late recommendations of healthful
exercise for women......Susan B. Anthony
and fourteen other women, charged with
illegal voting, have been arraigned before
United States Commissioner Storrs......A
small muff of black fox fur, in some places,
costs $300......Hereafter the Prussian Gov-
ernment will use only American paper for
its bank notes......A recently deceased
French gentleman bequeathed to the
widows of Paris an annuity of $6,000......
While E. Cady Stanton and Joslyn Gage are
both for Grant, the husbands of both these
Iadies voted for Greeley, it is said......Edin-
burgh has decided that the lady medical
students in the University are entitled to
be educated and take degrees......It is pro-
posed to erect a printers’ monument to the
memory of Greeley.......Two high stepping
colored boys supply the place of a Baltimore
doctor’s horse......Thieves lately entered the
Allegany Hospital at Pittsburgh, Pennsylva-
nia, and carried off the bedclothing and
furniture......The Vienna Exposition is to
have a 200,000 gallon saltwater acquarium.....
A free use of lemon juice for rheumatism is
prescribed by English and French physi-
cians......A cave, of several hundred tons,
occurred in the Eureka Consolidated mine
a short time ago, but no one was injured......
Sumner tells a touching story of the wreck
of the “Assyria,” an English freight vessel.
......A locomotive on the San Jose Railroad
was recently thrown from the track by a
cow, locomotive turned over and four cars
badly smashed. How’s that, will the owner
of the cow be required to pay damages?......
The Greeley electors of Arkansas, it is said,
have assembled and cast the vote of the
State for B. Gratz Brown for President, and
N. P. Banks of Massachusetts for Vice Presi-
[new column]
dent, charging fraud upon Grant’s victory
......A lady in Louisville has discovered
diamonds—her diamond rings which were
carried away and hidden by rats......A re-
ward is offered of $1,000 by the San Fran-
cisco police, for the arrest and conviction
of an unknown desperado.


﻿PRESERVE HEALTH.
					—
	The worst spendthrifts in the world are those
who squander their health. For, without
health, success in any profession is uncertain
if not positively unattainable. But even should
victory crown the ambitious hopes and unre-
mitting labors of one who has outraged the
laws of nature, there is little enjoyment to be
realized when deprived of health, compared
with what might have been its accompaniment.
A great man once remarked to a young pro-
fessional, “I am certain I could have performed
twice the labor, both better and with greater ease
to myself, if I had known as much of the laws of
health and life at twenty-one as I do now.”
	No study can be of more importance to the
human family than that of the human physique
its self. For only with proper understanding
of the corporeal structure of a system, can the
promotion of its usefulness and longevity be
safely attempted or permanently secured. And
one of the most reprehensible features in modern
prodigality is the little attention paid to the
divine regulations of economy in regard to
health.


﻿SELF SUPPORT.
					—
	THE SUBJECT before us is an important one—
if clearly considered, the one most important
of all subjects, to every reasoning being. One
can do for one’s self that which cannot be done
by another, either for good or bad; and also
that which can not be done for another, be that
other never so near and dear. Self reliance and
self labor are the only true methods by which
one can become intelligent or rich in any sense.
Men and women who have distinguished them-
selves as persons of honor and usefulness, have
carved their own roads up the rugged hill of
science and philosophy. Those who are lifted
from one notch to another and pushed along
continually by the strength and influence of
friends, unless they have used all the power and
force they are themselves possessed of, have no
just claims to wealth and reputation which the
exertions of others may sometimes enable them
to reach.   It is not safe to trust to such posses-
sions, for they will slip away, when the friends
who founded them, weary of proping them up,
or are themselves taken hence.
	No amount of gifts can aford the satisfaction
that well-earned goods will bring. It is better
to obtain less of wealth, or honor, and feel the
gratifying assurance, safety, and that self con-
fidence which inspires to renewed efforts, than
to live in dread of being cast upon one’s own
resources with no knowledge of what may
follow, no self supporting aim to pursue and no
courage to invent means of rising step by step
to higher and more worthy positions. The best
and only safe course to be taken by persons in


such conditions, is to go to work earnestly and
in as short a period as possible, in reason and
honor, work themselves into more reliable and
snbstantial conditions, where self support will
be at once necessary and easy, and suitable.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.
				    —
	A VERY enjoyable season was spent at the
Ward party in the Thirteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, on the evening of the 12th inst., young
and old mingling sociably together, and all
participants appearing to meet with pleasure
and satisfaction.
	THE LADIES of Utah will all be gratified to
learn from her own pen of the good health
of Miss E. R. Snow, and the satisfaction she
had realized in journeying up to the 17th ult.,
the latest date contained in her communica-
tion, which appears in this number of the
EXPONENT.
	IT IS	 worthy of note that in the splendid new
meeting house of the Sixteenth Ward in this
city, which is building under the jurisdiction
of Bishop Kesler, a room is set apart and is to
be dedicated for the express use of the Relief
Society. And the Society deserves thecompli-
ment, for their words and works show that they
are an energetic and faithful association.
	THE INTERIOR of the First Ward School
Room, to which our attention was lately
drawn, and the merits of which, with well in-
formed friends, we had the pleasure of dialogiz-
ing, is certainly worthy of recommendatory
notice. The extraordinary deftness with which
all its conveniences are arranged for the accom-
modation and satisfaction of the friends of
education who may enter it, is truly gratifying
even to casual visitors.	
	THE TERRIBLE results attendant on dissipa-
tion and a disregard for morality and temper-
ance has again been woefully depicted in this
city, in the case of Mr. and Mrs. Griffiths. In
the forenoon of Friday, the 5th inst., Griffiths,
insane from the inordinate use of spirtuous
liquors, shot and severely wounded his wife,
with the intention of killing her; afterwards
shooting himself in such a manner as to pro-
duce the desired effect. Yet, we are informed
that Mr. G. was, at one time, a steady, respected
and very reliable man.
	“THE FIRST Ward Free Library',” a hand-
some assortment of valuable works, the titles
of which, with the names of their donors are
cleverly written on neat cards which, in con-
nection with maps and charts, grace the
carefully finished walls of the room, is deserving
of special observation. And much credit is due
to the Bishop of the Ward, brother Joseph
Warburton, who, we understand, is himself
the skilfull manager of these concerns. A fine
brick building, the completion of which will
very shortly be attained by the industrious and
persevering people of the First Ward, is soon
to take the place of the small adobie one.
	JULIA HORN Burton, whose funeral took
place in this city on the 29th ult., still living in
the hearts of numberless sincere and devoted
friends, will ever be remembered as one whose
pure and lovely life was an example worthy of
imitation by the most reflective and assiduous
reformers. "As a teacher in Sabbath School,"
remarks Bishop Thomas Taylor, offering her
works as a pattern for others, "she could not be
surpassed. She so won the affections of the
children with whom she was associated that
her class often became so large that it was
necessary to divide it, while the beautiful
morals she taught both by word and actions
will never be forgotten by those Sabbath
School schollars who so loved her." It is


not difficult to see that such a teacher
of youth should be a most exemplary daughter,
sister and wife. She often said during life,
that she had not the slightest dread of death
but hoped, when she did die she might have a
nice funeral. And that desire was certainly
gratified. For on the occasion of her funeral a
very large and attentive concourse of friends
listened to most excellent and instructive
discourses from Elder John Taylor and Presi-
dent D. H. Wells, and a very impressive prayer
by Elder Joseph F. Smith.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿PLEASANT COMMUNICATIONS.
					—
					FOUNTAIN GREEN,
							Nov. 26th 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	I am always pleased to welcome your
paper, and truly glad that the women of
Utah have a chance to let their voices be
heard and their views known. I am sur-
prised that there are so many sisters who do
not take the EXPONENT. I have sent some
of mine to Manti to be circulated among the
sisters there. All parents who are desirous
of placing a paper of truth in the hands of
their children should have a chance to do so,
and the EXPONENT is certainly worthy to be
called such. I had much rather my children
would read but one paper like WOMAN'S
EXPONENT than all the novel stories that
were ever manufactured.
				MARIA J. WOODWARD.
				   —
				SALEM, UTAH CO.,
						Nov. 28th 1872.
DEAR EDITOR:—
	I am a reader of the EXPONENT, one of
its first subscribers; watch for its coming
with interest, delight in its perusal, think
every one the best, desire to see it prosper
and enlarge with choice matter selected from
the many who write for its beautiful col-
umns. May God bless the WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT and all connected with it or who fee
an interest for it.
						M. P. KILLIAN.


﻿CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.
						—
			STEAMER “Minnesota,”
				800 miles from Liverpool,
					November 5th, 1872.
MY DEAR MISS GREENE:—
	Here I am in the midst of the ocean. We
embarked, as we had anticipated, on the 6th.
The sea was calm and sailing pleasant till
towards night, when the winds became too
strong for the sails—they were all furled,
which produced a rolling motion of the ves-
sel, conducive to sea-sickness with some of
the passengers. We have had considerable
rough weather, but now all is calm. I have
experinced a slight touch of that disquieting
malady called sea-sickness, just enough to
make my appetite inexpensive for two or
three days, and to cause a little cleansing of
the stomach for my future benefit.
	The short period of time since leaving my
Mountain Home has introduced me to much
that has been interesting; my health has
been good, and thus far my endurance of
the fatigue (if anything I have experienced
is worthy to be called such) has been beyond
my expectations. 		*	*	*	*		
	On entering Davenport I remarked that
they could not run street cars there, but I
was mistaken, for presently I saw one de-
spite the narrowness of the streets, some of
which are very handsome. Davenport is
a pleasant, stirring town, but, like all other
towns and cities I have seen since I left Salt
Lake, it seems destitute of sufficient land to
give elbow-room to the streets.


﻿We stopped two hours in Buffalo—a rainy
morning, but I wanted to see Buffalo and
took a long ramble for that purpose. From Buf-
falo we went to Niagara—crossed into Canada
on the new suspension bridge, over which
the R. R. trains pass, to view the Falls; and
after witnessing those scenes of nature in
her display of the grand and beautiful, we
recrossed on the old bridge. From descrip-
tions by various sight-seers, my imagination
had been whetted to an appreciative idea, so
far as the majestic grandeur of the scenery is
concerned; but its beauty—so chaste so in-
describably delicate, I had not anticipated.
In fact, without actual, personal view, I
never could have comprehended such a
harmonious combination of power and deli-
cacy. Imagine for a moment a body of
water falling in a magnificent volume, to a
great distance and forming in its descent a
mantle of pure, sparkling white, of ever
changing folds, over a robe of the most
delicate shade of green that either the dye
of art or of nature can produce—at times the
green appearing as if approaching the sur-
face—at other times seen obscurely—the
chaste and beautiful snowy white ever pre-
ponderating; while from the depths below,
springs are constantly ascending, apparently
as far as the eye can reach, and then drop-
ping in heavy mists on the ever humid
surroundings. But after so many able pens
have descanted upon this subject, it seems
like folly for mine to attempt it. I leave it,
after drawing the conclusion that Mark
Twain was induced to speak indifferently
respecting this celebrated curiosity, lest he
should be suspected of doing or thinking for
once like somebody else.
	As yet I have had but little opportunity
for writing, the passage being rough makes
it difficult.
						E. R. SNOW.
	P. S. Still pleasant, and all right.
Nov. 17th, 180 miles from Queenstown.
								E. R. S.


﻿[FOR the EXPONENT.
			TEMPERANCE.
				  —
	I know that many readers will glance
with almost contempt at this heading. Yet,
it is the very essence of happiness, and is
but very little understood by three-fourths
of the human family. Even those who
speak and write in behalf of temperance,
very many of them, abuse it shockingly.
The strictly temperate person will live to be
old. This is a bold assertion but the truth of
it can be proven any, or every day. Tem-
perance enters into the smallest minutiae of
life, and beautiful indeed are the lives of
the strictly temperate. They may not have
genius or brilliant talent. But if by circum-
stances placed side by side with, or in
antagonism with Genius or Talent, for any
considerable length of time, Temperance
will be sure to win and wear the laurel
wreath of fame. Washington was temperate
in all things, if what we read of him be
true. Does history furnish a more beauti-
ful character or one more venerated? He
conquered more by the wisdom of his
counsels than by his sword. His mind, being
calm and clear was able to receive and retain
the most perfect impressions of what would
be best for the Country he loved so well!
And those impressions he carried into prac-
tice as perfectly as it was possible for fallen
nature to do, which was the foundation of
the famous Constitution under which all
should be free. Contrast with the history of
his life and death that of Napoleon Bonapart.
Bonapart had genius and talent unbounded,
could dazzle the minds of nations; could as


it where, hold nations in his hands. Yet
he lost all, and a man very much his inferior
was his conqueror.
	Wellington was temperate; calmly he
watched his brilliant antagonist, moving his
men from place to place, avoiding collissions
as often as possible. Finally he conquered
Bonapart, came out of the strife and lived to
be a very old man. Wellington, although
very wealthy, lived exceedingly plain; he
slept on a camp bedstead and was in no way
given to luxurious living.   It is the lack of
temperance that makes human beings unhap-
py. Think of the most temperate people with
whom you have been acquainted and do you
not know they have made you admire them
whether you would or not? They, command
respect without asking for it, by the force of
their example. In history we find but few
Washingtons, whose careers’ have been more
beautiful at the close than at the beginning.
	But let us turn to the history of the
development of this Territory. Temperance
has been the watchword of President Young,
and those associated with him. In all things
they advise to take things calmly. In the
late crusade did not President Young show
the most-perfect moderation? Calmly he
has led the people of this Territory, advanc-
ing little by little, growing greater and
greater. And if we, as a people, will be taught
by those whose right it is to teach, we must
become the greatest people on the face of
the globe. And if we will be temperate in
all things our lives will be beautiful and our
deaths but triumphs.


﻿MISTAKES.
					—
	Which should be first with us, our own
private interests, or the common cause of
humanity? When viewed in a true light,
neither need be neglected for the sake of
the other; for they are so closely inter-
woven that they both terminate in the same
thing. But unless we are vigilant and ever
on the alert we are apt to neglect the very
duty we should perform, to accomplish some-
thing else of less import, but which, at the
moment appears to be of greater magnitude.
	A short time ago a sister came to me to 
tell why she would not be able to attend
the Relief Society meeting that afternoon.
She must go up town for some cause, and
there were quite a number of little “every
day” concerns that she must look after, in
consequence of which it would be impossible
for her to be present at the meeting.   But 
not one of the hindrances which she related
was of really grave importance, or anything 
that could not be performed at another time
without danger of loss or inconvenience.
“And all this must be done, and only the
meeting neglected,” I remarked; that which
should be a first consideration is placed at
the last and”—“Say no more,” interrupted
my friend, “I can go as well as not, and I
will.” Thus we often mistake the least for
the greatest objects of our present mission.
								  M. S.
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 28th, 1872.


THE WORLD'S Fair, at Vienna is to have,
as one of its grand attractions, a huge “baby
show.” Baron Von Schwartzenboren was
the originator of the idea. Many fashionable
mothers will take a peep in the nursery at
hearing of this who have never-thought of
troubling themselves about it or its puerile
occupants for months before. But their pale,
pent-up, misused babies will not take the
prize; unless rosy, robust children, belong-
ing to mothers of sense, who allow them
to breathe the fresh, pure air, play in the
dirt and let the sun shine on them, are kept
at home.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE SEX.
			      —
	MISS Lillian Edgerton takes the man side
of the woman question for $100 to $150.
	ADDIE L. Ballou treats of the “Common
Conflict” which means “Moral and Religious
Revolution Inevitable,” for $50 to $100.
	REV. Mrs. Celia Burleigh asks $75 to $100
a piece for lectures about “Homes and
Houses” and “Women and Children.”
	SUSAN B. Anthony treats of “Women
already Voters” and the “Bread and Butter”
qustion for $50 to $100.
	MISS Susanna Evans’ lectures on “New
York; Its fashions and Foibles," was recently
given before a large and enthusiastic audience
at Tremont Temple, Boston.
	ANN Campbell, a Canadian dairymaid,
having survived the milking of fifteen gen-
erations of cows, has died at the age of one
hundred and thirty-one years.
	IT will be interesting to the ladies to
know that the ex-empress Eugene now
dresses almost entirely in red and black, and
that her beautiful hair is beginning to show
threads of silver.
	THE death is announced of Donna Juana
Meria do los Delores de Leon, widow of Sir
Harry George Wakelyn Smith, K. C. B.,
the first baronet who, after distinguished
military service was appointed Governor of
the Cape of Good Hope in 1847.
	PRINCESS Louise has received her first
welcome to Balmoral as the Marchioness of
Lorn, having been escorted with the Mar-
quis from the lodge to the castle by a
torchlight procession of servants and ten-
antry of the estate.
	MILLE. Eardon, a dressmaker, who recently
tried to drown herself in the Siene, exclamed:
“We have no liberties!”   When she was
pulled out, instead of thaking her pre-
servers, she cried out: “They don’t even
allow us to drown ourselves.”
	A LADY, who says that her opinion is
based on close observance, says that men,
as a rule, regard their wives as angels for
just two months—namely, a month before
marrying her and a month after burying
her.
	A SITUATION-seeking young lady noticed
an advertisement for one to do light house-
keeping. She wrote immediately to the
advertiser, asking where the lighthouse
was, and if there was any way of getting to
the shore on Sundays.
	MRS. D. Clair R. D. Everse Spettigne, of
Boston, spoke in Washingford, Vt. recently
on “Love and Marriage.” The lecture was
set ten minutes earlier than the usual hour
in order to give the gentleman who intro-
duced the lecturer plenty of time to call off
her name.
	MATILDA Phillips, sister of Adelaide Phil-
lips, the singer, pluckily rescued a young 
American, who was drowning at Genoe, a
few weeks ago, reaching him just as he was
sinking for the third time, and helping him
to land, while several gentlemen stood by
and made no attempt to aid her—although,
as she naively added, in telling the adven-
ture, “they were all kind enough after he
was landed.”
	A STRONG minded woman in Detroit
made the following gentle reply to a politi-
cian who had called at her house to get her
husband to go to the polls to vote: “No,
sir, he can’t go. He’s washing now, and
he’s got to iron to-morrow, and if he wasn’t
doing anything he couldn’t go. I run this
'ere house, I do, and if any one votes it'll be
this same Mary Jane.”


WHAT MAKES A LADY.
				—
	The various interpretations which have
been given to the word “lady,” provoke a
little thought on the subject. 
	The uneducated ascribe the term to those
who are not compelled to labor for support,
and who know of no better way to spend the
hours than in idle luxury or self gratification;
when, in truth, they may be the very ones
who, above all others, foil to exhibit the
least indications of a true lady. They scoff
at honest toilers, and turn disdainfully away
from those on whom they are dependent for
the food they eat, and the fine clothes in
which they delight to array themselves.
	In the estimation of some it is only neces-
sary to dwell in a large and elegant house,
or be able to ride out on pleasant days in a
carriage, in order to be a lady.
	“Oh! she is a lady now,” is often sarcasti-
cally given as a reason why old acquaintances
are allowed to pass unnoticed. Thus often
are old friendships broken, because, on one
side, persons having been raised from
obscurity and poverty, to a condition of
greater material comfort, which naturally
gives them an air of dignity, are misjudged
by the friends of other days, as proud, when
every reflecting woman must admit that
the fault is frequently on the other side.
How often is there in this way an impassable
gulf between those who were once on terms
of pleasant intimacy! Conscious of inferiority
in many respects, the less fortunate shrink
from the customary salutation, and the other,
surprised by the unusual coldness, without
thinking what the cause may be, fails to
make the necessary advances. In conse-
quence, bitter feelings of envy and jealousy
are engendered, and they who are already
destitute of sufficient selfrespect, sink still
lower in the esteem of the others, even
while they assume an air of independence
and contemptuous forgetfulness of their
former acquaintances.
	It is to be regretted that the general ten-
dency is to become vain of newly-acquired
possessions, and that many forget early
poverty. But there are more exceptions to
the rule than we sometimes think. Worldy
prosperity, indeed, is not necessarily incom-
patible with true nobility of character; on
the contrary, is often most helpful in the
exercise of generous purposes. The true
lady realizes this, and governs herself
accordingly. Is she rich? She recognizes
real worth in every woman who manifests
it, and endeavors to maintain a kindly atti-
tude towards all. Does she happen to be
poor? She will not envy her neighbor who
is blessed with more comfortable surround-
ings, but will “rejoice for her sake,” and
strive to meet her with generous sympathy.
She is well aware that silks and laces do not
make the lady, be they never so costly, and
knows that she is not herself exempt from
fulfilling the requirements in a lady. *	*
A wife will be a better wife, a mother more
a mother, if intellectually her husband’s
equal.	*	*	*	*								
Ladies may be found among women 	*	*
who have had but few educational advan-
tages. 	*	*	*	*	*			
	We affirm that she who cultivates virtue,
and dares to exercise all her mental powers,
from the very symmetry of her being, is a
“lady,” or better still, a “noble woman.”—
“Woman’s Journal.”


AMONG the ancients, when persons were
newly married, they put a yoke upon their
necks, or chains upon their arms, to show
that they were to be one, closely united,
and pulling equally together in all the con-
cerns of life.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.
				—
	FRANK Leslie is building an elegant villa
residence at Saratoga,  A  dock 600 feet
long is to be constructed, fronting the house
and skirting the lake shore.
	JUDGE Ingraham, of New York, decides
that a person’s watch comes under the head
of necessary articles and connot be taken by
by creditors.
	PROFESSOR Baird, of the Smithsonian In-
stitute, has returned and commenced work
on his report to Congress in relation to the
food fisheries on the Atlantic coast.
	ADVICE from Paris say that two-thirds of
the priests in Paris are ready to follow 
Hyacinth’s example—as soon as they can
find the essential American widows with 
$75,000 a piece.
	RECENT submarine investigations, carried 
on under the direction of the British Associ-
ation of Science, have demonstrated the fact 
that the sea is affected by the heat of the
sun only to the depth of one hundred and 
twenty feet.
	EXTRAORDINARY EYE-SIGHT.—The “Ex-
aminer” favor the building of a telescope
of extraordinary power to bring Mars with-
in 4,000 miles, and as the works of man,
such as roads and cities, might be seen if
Mars is inhabited.	
	A VIGNETTE of the late Thaddeus Stevens, 
the “Great Commoner” of Pennsylvania has
just been completed at the Bureau of Engrav-
ing and Printing in the Treasuary Depart-
ment, and will be used upon either the 
national currency or revenue stamps. The
likeness is perfect, and the work is pro-
nounced as one of the finest pieces of en-
graving ever executed. 
	SOME time ago, M. Chevreul, having acci-
dentally taken up a forgotten dish in which
there was a hardened saline substance, found
to his surprise that the surface was inter-
rupted by what appeared to be a soft
vegetation. The little moisture contained
in the salt in a vicious state at the bottom
had filtered through, partly melting the 
adjacent parts, which had led to their form-
ing protruding crystals; these by capillary
attraction, had drawn up more moisture,
followed by a similar effect, so that in course 
of time a sort of shrub, composed of crystals,
had grown up. At a late sitting of the
French Academy, the learned gentleman 
returned to the subject, and produced a
watch glass on which a new arborescent
matter has been formed of a vitreous appear-
ance, and of the thickness of only one or
two milimetres, while the “shrub” which
had grown out of it was nearly two centi-
metres in altitude, and of an average
thickness of one centimetre, but instead of 
being transparent it was opaque. All round
there was on the surface nine small
“pimples,” which were likewise without 
transparency. In another watch glass there
was a similar substance which had assumed
the appearance of satin by the formation of
minute crystals on the surface. Reasoniag
on this matter, Mr. Chevreul admitted that
the vitreous substances contained moisture 
in the first two specimens, but added that 
the third which, presented a superficial crys- 
talization, must have had much less. At all
events, this was a new proof of the molecular 
motion which could take place even in solid
matter. And to the same cause must be
attributed the change of color which is ob- 
served in stained glass when it is exposed
for many years to the action of the sun.
Might not this explain the mellowness of 
tint we admire in old stained glass, and 
which our own artists are unable to imitate?
—“Galignani’s Messenger."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿EXTRAVAGANCE AND MARRIAGE.
				   —
	Those who like, with Mr. Buckle, to
collate social phenomena and draw general
deductions from them, may just now gather
excellent material for the process. As an
example, we find the London journals dis-
cussing with earnestness the prodigious
cost of beef, bread, coal and female attire;
and looking at the law reports in some of
the papers, we find a most unusual number
of cases of breaches of promise in which the
man is the defendant. The significance of
this is probably beyond dispute. Among
a hundred men who have engaged them-
selves, a certain percentage of cautious
natures will be found who, on the contem-
plated step becoming imminent, are more
and more disturbed by the thought of its
pecuniary difficulties and responsibilities.
These frightened swains retreat, and a cer-
tain proportion—probably a small one—of
the outraged damsels seek such solace as the
law will accord them.
	There can be no question that a high cost
of living discourages marriage, or that the
discouragement of marriage is hurtful to
the state; but it is easier to point out the evil
than the remedy. We cannot put down
the price of butcher’s meat by special legis-
lation, or resort to sumptuary laws to regu-
late how many yards of tulle, or lace, or silk
a woman may be permitted to wear. Yet it
is true that the absence of all restraint in
these matters, and the excess threatened in
them, is equivalent to setting a premium on
immorality and a tax on wholesome domestic
life. The sight of men straining every
nerve to support an expensive family, and
often going behind hand in the struggle and
losing all hope and faith in the future,
is surely no strong incentive to part with
the immunities of celibacy. It is a sepctacle
which might be supposed to touch the heart
of any woman—but it does not. Doubt-
less there are circumstances attendant on
modern civilization, other than the expen-
siveness of living, to discourage marriage.
Many, however, who profess to have made a
close study of the subject pronounce this
consideration the paramount one in London
and it is fast becoming so in New York.
The “Daily News” of the former city, de-
clares that the proportion of actions for
breach of promise increases there daily, and
that a perusal of the evidence shows that
dread of the expense has usually led to the
defendant’s breach of faith. It also signifi-
cantly observes that a study of the cases
tried shows “that there are women quite
equal to laying a plot for a verdict of big
damages after drawing out the first letter of
endearment from their future victim.”
There seems to be less delicacy, less dread
of publicity on the part of forsaken damsels
than of yore, and some indeed in late cases
have behaved as if they thought that next
to being married, an explicit promulgation
of the fact that somebody at some time has
wished to marry them is a thing to be
accounted desirable.
	The journal we have quoted calls attention to
one odd feature which it would puzzle the au-
thor of the History of Civilization himself to
account for. This is that the breach of promise
epidemic, as raging of late in England, takes
the form of a run upon special classes of per-
sons. Thus, within three weeks of the time
its article was published, the "News" says
that more than twenty farmers have been
mulcted for faithlessness to their sentimental
engagements. At a period more remote,
the linen drapers came in for their share of
punishment—young ladies employed in
their shops  being usually the persons
aggrieved. Presently, no doubt, we shall
hear of a rush being made for the doctors
and—leaving out, of course, the vast body of
poor curates—a determined charge may be
expected on the ranks of the clergy. The
soldiers, whose profession it is, as General
Damas observes, “to make widows, not
wives,” will then come in for their share of
expiation, the sailors may follow, and so on,
until the whole round of society receives its
due share of attention. After this experi-
ence, extreme weariness will take the place,
we may be sure, of the easy confidence with
which men flirted and committed themselves
in the olden time, and ladies with a taste for
admiration will be put on lenten fare as a
vicarious atonement for the wounded hearts
of their litigious sisters.
	In all seriousness, the omens suggested
by these numerous suits for breach of prom-
ise form a subject for deep and careful
reflection. There are by no means so many
cases here, where the facilities for divorces
are greater; but the fear of marriage respon-
sibilities—the feeling that men of a certain
social position have no business with the
luxury of a wife unless possessed of a hand-
some competency—is unmistakably gain-
ing ground among us, and possibly the
practical objection set up of late by so many
in England may likewise become prevalent
in America. The subject is well worth the
best thought of students in social science,
and, indeed, of all right-minded people who
can make use of a new and powerful argu-
ment against that extravagance in modern
living which is confined neither to the Old
world nor the New.—New York “Times.”


﻿BOOKS AND CONVERSATION.
				—
	If half the time which is spent in idle
gossip and talking fashionable nonsense,
was used in gathering grains of gold, in
storing the mind with a certitude of things
as they are and have been and are likely to
become, very much more real enjoyment
than is experienced would be realized by
many. In selecting reading matter, some-
thing that will be beneficial in some form
should always be chosen; something that
will serve to enliven and enlighten the
powers of intellect. Not always the same
subjects, but a diversity of interesting and
instructive themes. And in like manner
should our associations with friends be con- 
ducted. And yet, often will a word or
sentence be dropped in light conversation
which will prove a coagent to numerous
brilliant and delightful strains of thought
which, but for the accidental stroke upon
the keynote, might long have slumbered
or never have been born. And in reading
simple anecdotes, people will frequently
happen upon some little dint of inspiration
which will prove the foundation to a great
and sublime infusion of meditations, and
may be given to the world in glowing rich-
ness and beautiful originality.
								L.


﻿MISUNDERSTANDING.
	“None are so blind ast hose who will not
aee.” How some people love to misconstrue
the words and motives of others! Why
can’t they have sense enough to realize
that they, like others, and others like them-
selves, are mortal beings, and all alike are
subject to mortal weaknesses and mortal
woes? I have but little charity to extend to
those extraordinary “good” people who
watch for iniquity in others and seek to
hide their own baseness under a cloak, so
black as to deceive almost themselves, and
make them fancy they are pure and


truthful when they are nothing but budgets
of the vilest cant and hypocracy! Only imag-
ine a woman who, over such a prayer as the
following, for an unfortunate fellow creature
who had become so desparate as to commit
suicide, and her friends, could write dark
misrepresentations concerning the teachings
of a man proven to be a firm maintainer of
truth, integrity, virtue and honesty! “May
the tender Father of us all, who saw all the
agony of her soul, gather and enfold her in
His merciful arms, and also extend to the
aged mother and sister, far away on the
shore of Michigan’s mighty lake, His tender
consolation in this hour of deepest sorrow.”
And the falsehoods told and written by
these foolhardy-people, in this instance—are
believed by many, in preference to the
truth! And yet we must not be annoyed,
because that is what they would like to
make us do and we must disappoint
them. Well!
							FRANK.


﻿MR. Robert Dale Owen has contracted
with the “Atlantic Monthly” to publish his
autobiography, in monthly chapters, begin-
ing with the number for January.
	LORD BACON says, “But little do men per-
ceive what solitude is, and how far it
extendeth; for a crowd is not company, and
faces are but a gallery of pictures, and talk
but a tinkling cymbal, where there is no
love.”
	WILL THE EARTH BECOME A SUN SPOT?
—Mr. R. Holms sends a paper intended to
prove that the earth is gradually solidify-
ing, and losing its acqueous vapor; also, that
it is steadily diminishing its distance from
the sun, as shown by the gradual shorten-
ing of the year or annual revolution of the
earth; also maintaining that the “solar spots”
are not excavations, nor breaks in the solar
atmosphere, but that they are matter such
as forms the planets in a state of combustion,
whose emissions supply the solar system
with heat, light and electricity. The planet-
ary, cometary and nebular systems are
considered in this view. We receive
occasional communications of this kind,
which we are unable to publish because they
deal with what must yet be questions of-
theory and speculation, rather than ascer-
tained facts of science.—“English Paper.”
	THEY, who sit in the light of so many
brilliant windows little know, perhaps, how
much labor goes; to the making up of them”.
They are first designed, then stained in
bits; their colors are burned in separately,
—first the blue, then the red—and each re-
quires three successive heatings in the oven.
They must be pieced into a whole, with
leadings connecting the pieces, then swung
into a large window frame to be examined.
If any defect be discovered, the part or parts
must be burned again in the oven, and then
the whole must be burned together. The
scene in Glasmalarie is remarkable enough.
Here is a man engaged upon a martyr’s
toes, while in another room the eyes of the
same saint cast upon you the last look of de-
spair as they are shoved into a furnace
heated seven-fold—just as if Herr Fortner,
who now presides, I believe, were another
Diocletian.
	A week later you will see the martyr,
purified by his ordeal, smiling down a whole
rainbow upon the workmen in their shirt
sleeves, in an apartment of chalk, old
planks, coke and all sorts of odds and ends.
These fellows are no respecters of persons,
either, Gods and saints, St. George’s dragon
and the chamois destined for some noble-
man’s hunting box, are cast together into
the oven and shine together on the walls.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A ﻿PRIZE!
	Should be in every house!
	The SINGER SEWING MACHINE!
Will do the most delicate and elegant, as well as
the strongest or plainest, sewing, in a style un-
equalled by any other Machine. Received the first
diploma at the Territorial Fair, in October last. Its
Embroidery attachment is an object of general ad-
miration.
	More of the Singer are sold than of any other
Machine. Call and see them at the Singer Sewing
Machine Department, two doors south of Eagle
Emporium, Salt Lake City.
				Z. C. M. I. General Agents.

SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.
	We would respectfully call your attention to the
fact, that we have one of the Largest and best Stocks
of Ladies’, Misses’ and Children’s FURS in Sets, as
also Capes and Collars (separate), that will be found
in this City. Also a large assortment of Fine Shoes
of Philadelphia and California make.
	The above goods we will sell at the lowest possible
price;
					DUNFORD & SONS,
						Salt Lake City.

DR. W. H. GROVES,
							DENTIST,
Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
		Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

Z. C. M. I.
	Retail Dry Goods Department.

	We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
riety of our Patrons.

	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated
		SALT LAKE GLOVES.

	Children's Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty.
	While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics
of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,
Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-
est possible figure.
	H. B. CLAWSON, Sup’t.
[new column]
CAMPBELL& PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for Woman’s Exponent.

				JOHNSON’S
		HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES!
Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-
	ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.

BONESET PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.
	EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.
	CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.
	ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills. Price 50 cents.
	These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at

	ZION’S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,

Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.
	If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them.
	Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.
	AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.
From the Laboratory of
						J. E. JOHNSON,
							St. George, Utah.





H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
[new column]
	


	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

	A UTAH LADIES’ JOURNAL.

	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.
	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.
	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves?“ It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!”
	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.
	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.
	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.
	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.
	WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.

	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:	
1 Copy one year,	    $2.00	1 Copy six months,    $1.00 
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months 9.00

	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting 
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

	Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


Woman's Exponent.
﻿Vol. I. 	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1872.  No. 15.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
			     ——
	Heavy floods in Cambridge and vicinity,
England.
	Lady notaries public are the latest
novelty in official life. Terre Haute, Indi-
ana, has got one.
	Murderers and convicts, who have
escaped the penalty of offended laws, con-
tinue to court notoriety, now, as lecturers.
	A singular death occurred in Vernon,
Iowa, a few days ago. A child fell and hurt
its gums, when bleeding commenced at the
place injured, and the child died of it.
	A religion without bigotry, which in-
culcates love, truth and mercy, and whose
believers practice these virtues, is sadly
needed throughout the Eastern States.
	People find it frequently more conve-
nient to see and act wrong than right,
because, while there are numerous wrong
ways there is but one right way to look at
or perform anything.
	A first class mathematician might find
considerable of a problem, and spend some
time in recconing the number and cost of
the disasterous fires which have occurred
within the United States, since the Boston
conflagration.
	A hint to young ladies who design enter-
ing into the house-keeping business might
be gleaned from the example of a wedding
which lately took place, at whcih each guest
paid 25 cents admittance, which was handed
over to the bride as a little start in the
way of “setting up shop.”
	Among the last sayings of Horace
Greeley was “The country is gone; the
Tribune is gone; and I am gone!” While
his last words were: “I know that my Re-
deemer liveth!” These will do to remember
and jot down when making memoranda of
the dying words of eminent men.
	The British Embassador at St. Peters-
burg is reported to have warned Prince
Gortchakoff that if Russian-troops enter the
countries between Khiva and Afghanistan,
England will intervene in support of Afghan-
istan. If this statement be true, a quarrel
between England and Russia, may next be
apprehended.
	ONE OF the questions agitating the country
just now is, whether the people of Louisiana
will control the affairs of that State; or
whether they will be governed by a set of
“carpet-baggers” who have no special inter-
est in the State except to rob it.  The
question is important enough for considera-
tion.
	In the new public school building, No. 5,
Jersey City, New York, which was partially
destroyed by fire on the morning of the 23
of December, were about one hundred and
fifty young ladies, all of whom escaped un-
harmed; and likewise members of the Board
of Education which was in session at the
time. With such good fortune, the loss of
$60,000 need not be complained of.
	A little over a week ago two compositors
skated down the Missouri river from Sioux
City to Omaha, over two hunnred miles;
being some two days making the trip;
[new colum]
which was more fool-hardy than sensible.
Frozen ears for both, with a frozen cheek and
heel for one of them, were the result. If
there is any daring, but foolish thing to be
done, American boys are ready to undertake
it.
	A great curiosity in the form of a stone
has been found by Mr. A. M. Stewart, a
locator of the gravel deposits on the summit
of the Sierra Nevada mountains, in Califor-
nia. This stone is said to be in shape like a
magnifying, glass thick in the centre, and so
hard that the hardest of files tried upon it
produces not even a scratch. Viewed through
a powerful magnifying glass, it shows the
most wonderful rays of light. The owner
believes it to be a rare gem, unknown to
the lapidaries.
	Some time ago, “Woodhull & Claflin’s
Weekly” charged Mrs, Theodore Tilton
with marital infidelity, and Rev. Henry
Ward Beecher as the other guilty party in
the alleged criminality. Mr. Beecher paid
no attention to the charge, nor did Mr. Tilton
up to the present. Now, it is said, he will
publish a denial, although it comes at a
very late hour. Evidently New York
“Society" must have some very hideous-
looking “skeletons” in its cupboards, if they
were exposed to view.
	Among the most terrible disasters of late
occurrence, is recorded the railroad accident
near Carry, Pennsylvania, on the afternoon
of December 24th by which the train, con-
sisting of one passenger car and one baggage
car, the engine and tender, was thrown off
the track; falling a distance of over twenty
feet; the cars were turned directly bottomside
upward, caught fire, and through the fearful
crushing and burning, some twenty souls
were immediately ushered into eternity and
about as many more were dreadfully injured.
But one person out of forty-six who were
on the train, is known to have escaped un-
harmed.
	About three hundred men, women
and children were assembled in the recep-
tion room, up stairs, of the Newberry Baptist
Church, Pennsylvania, on Christmas day,
having a Sunday School Christmas Celebra-
tion; when the floor gave way and the mass
of human beings were precipitated to the
floor beneath. Fourteen were killed out-
right and a large number, more or less
injured. This is one of the most heartrend-
ing occurrences reported of the late holiday;
and should give a text to the bigoted of
other denominations, who forget what the
Savior said concerning the falling of the
tower of Siloam.	
	Train, whose given name is George
Francis, has not reached the White House,
but he has the inside of a New York prison,
charged with publishing an obscene periodi-
cal. But it was not the obscenity in Train’s
publication that roused virtuous New York,
where the most degradingly disgraceful
publications of the age are circulated by
wholesale and are on the stand of almost
every newsvender. It was because he pub-
lished statements concerning prominent
New Yorkers which were hard to meet and
yet could not be passed over in silence. If
New York will rid itself of obscene publica-
[new column]
tions, professional murderers who kill life
ere it has passed from its embryotic condi-
tion, and of its public destroyers of chastity
and innocence, it will be in a better condition
to pronounce judgment upon Train and his
publications than it is at present.
	The Christmas season just passed was
prolific of horrors in the United States.
Destructive fires occurred in many parts of
the country; the upper floor of a Pennsylvania
Baptist church fell in, killing fourteen
persons and injuring nearly fifty more, a
number of them severely; a number of rail-
road accidents occurred, by one of which
some twenty persons were literally roasted
alive through the burning of an overturned
car on which they were, and in addition to
these and other horrors, one of the most
violent snow-storms, accompanied with in-
tense cold, swept over the Eastern, Middle
and Southern States, that has been known
for seventeen years. These are but signs of
the times on which the wise will ponder;
while the unbelieving and the foolish will
not heed the warnings given of an approach-
ing consummation in fulfillment of prophecy.
	The Credit Mobilier is exciting consider-
able interest at present. Speaker Blaine
demanded an investigation into the
charges made against a number of
the members and ex-members of Congress—
Senators and Representatives; the principal
charge being that certain members, Blaine
among the number, were bribed in 1864 by
the Union Pacific Railroad Company’s Credit
Mobilier, to support the measure of that
corporation and vote for the amendments of
1862, to increase the land grant and ex-
change the Government’s first mortgage
on the road for a second one, the first being
allowed to the company. The Chicago
“Evening Post” has the following hit con-
cerning the affair: “Enough has been devel-
oped in the Credit Mobilier examination
to make it desirable to develop more. We
trust the full-sized cat will be let out of the
bag, no matter what Senator she bites, or
what member she scratches, or what editor
she spits upon. So interesting an animal
cannot get her back up too soon.”
	Some time ago Professor Tyndall pro-
posed to test the efficacy of prayer as a
healing medium, by having prayer offered
up in certain wards of an hospital, while
other wards were to be left prayerless; and
if the patients in the wards where prayer
was offered would be restored to health more
quickly than those in the other wards, then
prayer was to be accepted as efficacious in
the healing of dseases. It is needless to
say that Professor Tyndall is an infidel. A
conference of Methodist preachers consid-
ered his proposition, and after some discus-
sion decided that it was blasphemous. Now,
as the Methodist preachers in question,
with the entire denomination, and the
Christian sects generally, repudiate the gift
of healing, or the scriptural mode of healing
the sick by faith and prayer, the question
is an open one, wherein they differ from or
are better than Professor Tyndall? And
whether is the infidelity of the Professor or
the preachers worse, seeing the former
avows his unbelief in the Bible and the
latter profess belief in it?


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿CROSSING THE ATLANTIC.

Written at sea by Miss Eliza R. Snow, Dedicated to the
				Ladies of Utah.

We’re on the ‘'Minnesota."
	A ship of “Guion Line,"
Which boasts her Captain Morgan,
	The gen’rous staunch and kind.

Amid the heaving waters
	That form the liquid plain;
"With four and twenty draft feet
	The steamer ploughs the main.

I'm gazing on the ocean.
	As on the deck I stand,
And feel the cooling breezes,
	With which the sails are fanned.

By sunlight, star and moonlight,
	And tranquil evening shade,
The ever varying featu es
	Of ocean I’ve surveyed-

At times with restless motion,
	As if her spirit grieves—
As tho' her breast were paining,
	Her mighty bosom heaves.

And then vast undulations,
	Like rolling prairies spread;
With wave on wave dissolving,
	With tumbling, dashing tread.

Upon the deep, dark billows,
	Broad, foaming white caps rise;
And sprays in dazzling beauty,
	Shoot upward to the skies.

'Tis now a plain, smooth surface,
	As tho’ in cozy sleep,
Were wrapped each wave and billow
	Upon the briny deep.

But hark! The Captain orders 
	The furling every sail;
Storm-clouds and headwinds rising
	Portend a coming gale,

Anon all Neptune’s furies
	Are on the Steamer’s path;
We mount the deck to witness 
	The ocean in its wrath.

The scene! What pen can write it?
	What pencil’s art could show
The wild, terrific grandeur
	Which reigns around us now?

The waving, surging waters,
	Like battle armor clash;
Tumultuous waves upheaving
	With foaming fury dash.

The steamer mounts the billows,
	Then dips the space below:
And bravely presses onward
	Tho’ reeling to and fro.

We’re sailing on the ocean
	With wind and sail and steam;
Where views of “terra firma”
	Are like the poet’s dream.

The God who made the waters—
	Who made the solid lands,
Is ours—our Great Protector;
	Our life is in His hands.

Subservient to His counsel—
	Confiding in His care—
Directed by His wisdom.
	There’s safety everywhere.


﻿F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
			  —
	EPHRAIM CITY, Dec. 10th, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	At our last monthly meeting, by common
consent, in compliance with Sister Snow’s
suggestion, the word “Female” was dropped
from the name of our Society. We had an
excellent meeting, which indeed we always
do have; our President, Sister S. A. Peter-
son urged the subject of education very
strongly upon the minds of the sisters. She
also gave much good instruction upon the
Word of Wisdom. The Ladies’ Hall, a very
nice two story rock building, is ready for
the shingles; the lower story will be used
for a Co-operative Store.
	AGNESS S. ARMSTRONG, Secretary.
[new column]
	Wanship, Summit co.,
			December 10th, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	We are a little band of sisters here, but
though among the least, we do not wish to
be the last in any good word or work.
Although but few in number we feel united
and earnest in our endeavors to do all the
good we can, both by precept and example,
as well as in relieving the needy and com-
forting the distressed. At our last meeting
five new members were voted in. At a re-
cent meeting it was voted unanimously to
drop the word “Female” from the name of
the Society, in accordance with the expressed
wishes of Sister E. R. Snow.
	We value your paper highly and hope it
will continue to vindicate the cause of
“Woman’s Rights” in the truest sense of
the word, and we wish you prosperity and
happiness in your enterprise.
	MRS. MARY REYNOLDS President.
	SARAH S. RICHARDS
	ANN BRIZZEE, Counselors
	SUSAN S. RICHARDS, Secretary.
			   —
	LOGAN, Dec. 6th, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:--
	At our monthly meeting, held in the hall,
November 4th, the word “Female” was
dropped from the name of our Society by a
unanimous vote, according to the suggestion
made by Sister E. R. Snow. President
Mrs. Maughan imparted to us many good
instructions which she had received from
Sister Snow, making our meeting interest-
ing as well as beneficial. Our meetings are
not largely attended but there are always
some from each ward, so that reports are
made of the condition of the poor and none
are allowed to suffer for the necessaries of
life. Some of the wards hold their sewing
meetings regularly. We have not much
means on hand as we always manage to dis-
tribute our quilts and other articles as fast
as we get them made. We have one hun-
dred dollars in the Co-operative, Store the
interest of which helps us a little. At our
last monthly meeting, (the 2nd inst.) the
sisters expressed their determination to
renew their diligence.
	Accept my good wishes for the success of
your interesting paper, which I think is
highly prized by many of our Society.
				L. B. Benson, Secretary.
	
	CEDAR CITY, Iron Co., U. T.
	December 12 th, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	Our Society was organized the 4th of
June 1868, and since that time has disbursed
nearly $400 for the benefit of the poor, be-
sides donating liberally for the building of a
Temple in St. George and other laudable
undertakings. We have $50 in the Wash-
ington Woolen Factory; $50 in our Co-op.
Store and $50 in the Co-op. sheep herd.
	The sisters with their President—Mrs.
Rachel Whittaker, and her Counselors Mrs.
Annabella Haight and Mrs. Jane Birkbeck
all feel well and willing to assist in every-
thing that is required of them to do good.
At a late meeting, it was moved and unani-
mously carried that the word “Female” be
dropped from the name of the Society.
				ELLEN LUNT, Secretary.

				MENDON, Cache Co.,
					December 8th, 1872
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	I forward a brief report to you of our last
meeting, held on the 5th inst. at which
a vote was taken to omit the word “Female”
from the name of the Society, as suggested,
which, was unanimous. Our Society is in a
[new column]
prosperous condition; we have given to the
poor $44; donated to the meeting house $38;
for public expenses $16; have a $20 share in
the Co-operative Store and $70 in the
treasury.
		ELIZABETH WILLIE, President.
		JANE BAKER Secretary.

		HEBER CITY, Wasatch Co.,
			     December 15th, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	The Relief Society of this place was organ-
ized on the 7th day of June, 1869, under the
supervision of Bishop Abraham Hatch. The
following named ladies were chosen as
officers: Mrs. Margaret Muir President;
Mrs. Ann Murdock and Mrs. Mary McMil-
len Counselors; Mrs. Ann Harvey Secretary
and Mrs. Emily Harvey Treasurer.
	At a meeting held the 7th of November
1872, presided over by President Mrs. Mar-
garet Muir, a unanimous vote was taken to
omit, hereafter, the inappropriate word
“Female” in connection with the name of
the Society. The sisters bore testimony to
the truth of the principles of the Gospel
with which we are associated, and Father
Thomson, being present, gave us some im-
pressive remarks relative to tithing. Meet-
ing adjourned for one month and closed with
singing and prayer.
				    ELLEN LEE,
				    MELISSA REYNOLDS.
				   —
			RIVERDALE Weber Co.,
				December 16, 1872.
EDITOR EXPONENT:—
	President F. D. Richards and Bishop L. J.
Herrick held a meeting at this place on the 5th
inst. The school house was well filled and,
among other instructions, President Richards
recommended the organization of a Relief
Society at Riverdale. And calling for an
expression of the feelings of the congrega-
tion upon the subject, a unanimous vote was
cast in favor of a branch Society being
organized. The following named sisters
were then chosen and ordained to fill the
first offices belonging to the Society; Mrs.
Martha Bingham. President; Mrs. Ednah
Stimpson and Mrs. Nancy Bybee Counselors.
As the day was far spent it was decided
that the sisters meet on the following
Wednesday, to complete the organization.
Accordingly, a meeting was held on
Wednesday December 11th, 1872, at which,
President Mrs. M. Bingham presided. Af-
ter singing and prayer, the following named
sisters were chosen and unanimously sus-
tained to fill the under-named offices: Mrs.
Hannah A. Child Secretary; Mrs. Dye,
Treasurer; and sisters Jennette Mitchell,
Martha A. Fife, Mary M. Child, Catharine
Henchliff, Mary Stimpson and Dell Straton
for Visiting Committee.
	Meeting adjourned, prayer by Mrs. Stimp-
son.
				H. L. Child Secretary.

	The subject of Physiology was continued
at the General Retrenchment meeting, held
in the 14 Ward, on Saturday, December 21st
1872. President Mrs. L. Horn being unvoid-
ably absent, the meeting was presided over
by Counselor Mrs. Z. D. Young, who, after
the usual ceremonies, made a few very appro-
priate remarks, followed by Mrs. Margaret P.
Young, Counselor Mrs. Woodruff and others:
Mrs. W. East, believed that, in, as, much
as the wives and daughters of the Saints
had not hitherto been permitted to learn
the nature of the human system and to study
the laws that govern the same, on account
of the labors and duties which they have
been obliged to perform, in connection with
the brethren, for the sustenance of their


families, that if they humble themselves be-
fore the Lord and ask for wisdom concerning
these things that light will be given them.
The Lord is able to quicken our understand-
ings and to teach us those things which we
ought to comprehend for the benefit of our-
selves and our descendants.
	Counselor Mrs. Sararh M. Kimball dwelt
beautifully upon the structure of the spiritual
and physical faculties of human nature. In
childhood and extreme youth, she said, we
enjoy most that which we best comprehend;
the faculties of taste and smelling are, per-
haps, as finely developed in a young child
as in an adult, while other faculties of per-
ception yet remain quite dormant. As we
grow older, the physical form develops, and
so, also, the mental powers expand, ever
reaching forth for something yet beyond
the present. And the most delightful faculty
pertaining to mortality, or immortality, is
faith, that faith which gives us foretaste
and foresight of future and eternal intelli-
gence. Intelligence is happiness—we cannot
enjoy aught, of which we have no under-
standing. Mrs. Watmough made some
very useful explanations upon the formation
of the body, the position of the bones, their
proper treatment and the wisdom exhibited
throughout the entire arrangement of the
same. Remarks suitable to the occasion
were made by sisters Ann Neal, M. A.
Leaver and Eleanor Pratt.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Prayer
by Counselor Mrs. Pheobe Woodruff.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Persons in pinched or moderate circum-
stances have, often, as lively a love for the
beautiful as those who are better off. There-
fore, nothing is more becoming to a sensible,
woman of limited means, than the firmest
endeavor to keep on hand, through some
legitimate course, such articles of food and
clothing for herself and family, as will
secure health. For it is a well known fact,
that health and beauty go hand in hand, and
that deprived of health, true beauty never
did, never can exist. Ladies may go to all
the expense they please to purchase artificial
beauty, but what is it after all but a simple
fraud which exposes a weakness of character?
While real beauty can be procured and long
preserved at less than half the cost, by using
sound judgment in the promotion and mainte-
nance of health.
	The following from the pen of Faith
Rochester is worthy of being contemplated
and acted upon by mothers:

	“Under-Clothing for Cold Weather.
—I have written on this subject before, but
there seems to be need of precept upon pre-
cept. Of late I have been learning better
ways than I knew before.
	For children of three years and over there
is nothing better, perhaps, than an under-
garment, clothing the body from the neck
and wrists to the heels, much like the night-
drawers children wear. They may be made
with a plain, easy, high-necked waist, with
long, straight sleeves, and with open drawers
sewed to the waist, The drawers should be
rather full at the top, but small enough at
the lower part of the leg to go inside the
stocking, reaching to the heel, or leaving no
gap above the shoe. 'Doctors disagree'
about the material of this under-garment,
some recommending woolen and some cot-
ton. Taking into account the difficulty of
washing woolen without shrinking it, and
the disagreeable sensation many skins ex-
perience in wearing it, probably the best
way in most cases is to have this under-
garment made either of cotton-flannel or of
hin cotton-cloth, with a similar garment of
warm woolen material over it. Buttons at
the waist support the other under-clothing.
	There are many sensible ladies in these
United States now wearing under-garments
similar to those just described. Among
them the preference is usually given to thin
cotton material for the suit next the body,
with a suit made of woolen (white flannel,
gray ladies’-cloth, or red fireman’s-flannel)
in the same fashion worn over the cotton
suit in winter weather. With two such
suits for frequent changes, to give oppor-
tunity for thorough airing and sunning of
the woolens, they require very little wash-
ing. The cotton next the body takes up the
perspiration, etc., and this gets the good
weekly washing. The woolen suit when
taken off weekly for a change need only be
exposed to pure air and sunlight for a day
or two to purify it properly, washing it
only when it visibly requires it.
	“If men wear cotton under their woolen
shirts, the woolen may be treated in the
same way, and men who are not engaged
in dirty work, can wear their woolen shirts
all winter with very little washing, purify-
ing them by air and sunshine each week
when changes are made. Ladies’ cloth shirts
shrink less than common flannel.”
	Preserving stuffed animals with-
out Arsenic.—Rub the flesh side of the skin
with a composition of 1 lb of tobacco ashes,
half a pound of alum, two pounds of dry
slaked lime.
	Cleaning Oil Paint.—Whiting is bet-
ter than soap. Use warm water and a soft
flannel. Afterwards wash clean and rub
dry with chamois.
	To render Corks or stoppers air-
tight.—This can be accomplished by
covering with a cement composed of red
lead or finely powdered litharge mixed with
undiluted glycerine.
	Mucilage.—Glue, water and 3 per cent
of nitric acid adheres well to metalic sur-
faces.
	Linseed is recommended as a cure for
consumptive cough. The linseed should
be boiled to the consistency of a jelly, and
sweetened with honey or sugar. Two large
tablespoonfuls should be taken when the
cough is about to attack the sufferer.
	To Wash Straw Matting.—Take a
pail half-full of hot water, a perfectly clean
long-handled mop, and a dish of dry, sifted
meal. Sweep all dust off the matting, then
scatter the dry meal evenly over the room.
Wring the mop so dry that it will not drip
at all, and rub hard, one breadth at a time,
always lengthwise of the straw, and use
clean water for each breadth. When the
matting is dry, the meal can be swept off
easily; it should always be done on a dry
day.


﻿Written for the Exponent.	
			MARRY A TRADESMAN.
	Young ladies, never speak unfavorably of
the idea of becoming the wife of an honest
tradesman, for they are in reality the
most honorable and worthy gentlemen of
any community, taken as a whole. Obscure
labor often does much more for the cause of
humanity than do deeds of world-wide fame.
The head may work itself gray, inventing
plans for industry to enter upon, but unless
the hands are fouud, the sturdy, willing
hands, to bring the designs which genius
has devised, into practical use by practical,
diligent labor, what could the schemes and
revelations of distinguished mental power
ever accomplish?


﻿Many a girl foolishly declines the hono
of being the wife of a true son of toil,
because of what her fashionable friends say
about it.
	“O! I wouldn’t marry such a man for
the world” says one. And another re-
marks, “It is so beneath your position in
society! To think of your settling down to
such a fate as washing dishes, and doubt-
less, mopping floors! I wouldn’t marry him
if I never married at all!” Why not? I
would marry him, provided I knew him to
be honest and temperate and industrious—
and that he loved me, and I him.
	If he is a genius and a scholar, so much
the better; but if not, these qualities can be
cultivated to a very great extent, and an
educated, refined and loving woman, can
do more to assist that cultivation than the
whole world could do without her.
	If he has earned, or even inherited a for-
tune, so that he is rich in worldly goods as
well as in heart, so much the better; but if
not, go to work with him, you will never
find wiser or better employment than assist-
ing the man you love to rise in the world
and become as rich and great as your proud-
est ambition would prompt within you a
desire to see him. There is much satisfac-
tion in earning what we possess, much more
than in receiving blessings in any other
way. There is true dignity and honor in
labor, labor of hands as well as of brains, to
which those who consider themselves above
work will never attain, until they have risen
above that degrading superstition.
								Aunt Trudie.


﻿RELICS OF A PAST RACE.
				  ——
	On the farm of Mr. Harrison Whaley, near
Moorfield, in this county, is a skirt of woods
which possesses characteristics of deep in-
terest. About three inches beneath the
surface of the entire tract may be found
innumerable bones, evidently the remains
of an extinct species of the human race.
Several mounds are also in the woods, and
in one which has been partially explored
were found skulls and bones, which from
their size, must have belonged to a race of
beings far more gigantic than the race which
now inhabits the earth. In this mound
were also found many clay utensils; also
arrow-heads cut out of the solid rock, and
pipes of the same material. Such a mem- 
orial of the past starts many inquiries.
Was the place a battle-ground, where abo-
rigines fought to maintain the glory of their
respective tribes? Or was it a common
burial-ground? The first seems the most
plausible theory, in as much as the whole
tract, covering at least fifteen acres, has
multitudes of human bones but a few inches
beneath the surfaee. It is evident they
were never buried, but originally lay exposed
to view, until the accumulated deposits of
time formed the black, rich soil which
covers them. But whatever theory may
be adopted, it is certain that these bony
memorials ante-date history, and furnish
another proof of how little is known of the
races and tribes who flourished, it may be,
centuries ago.—“Carlisle (Ky.) Mercury.”


﻿One of the most able and honored of
French writers has justly said, in speaking
of the pleasure he derived from literature,
“I read all that antiquity has written except
the poets, with whom we had been surfeited
at school, and in whose verses our wearied
eyes saw but the cæsnra, and the long or
short syllable. Sad effect of premature
satiety, which withers in the mind of a
child the most perfumed flowers of human
thought.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

		LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers Woman’s Exponent
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, JANUARY 1, 1873.


﻿SPLINTERS.	
				—
	An agent has been sent to Germany in
the hope of securing 1,000 new hands to
work in the Lake Superior mines......For
the third time within nine years, the Jack-
sonville, Illinois, female college was lately 
burned......A Mrs. Kendall, wife of an officer
at Fort Davis, Texas, shot and killed a negro
corporal in the act of entering her sleeping
room, through the window in the absence
of her husband, and was justly applauded
......Black small pox has been widely spread
through Toledo, by the theft by some
students, of a body from the grave-yard
which had been taken off by that disease.
......Upon the first reading in the Spanish
Cortes, of the bill to abolish slavery in Porto
Rica, the vote was given in favor of the
ministerial measure, 180 to 6......Lotta, the
actress, lately reported dead, denies the 
report by a published card......Eight board-
ing house masters have been arrested by the
United States authorities in San Francisco,
for shipping seamen and demanding pay 
of the United States Commissioner......The
heavy frosts of this season in San Francisco,
have burst quite a number of lead water
pipes......The English Court of Queen's
Bench, awards an actress $8,000 damages
for a scar inflicted upon the face by a rail-
way accident......The way in which Irish 
school masters receive the school inspectors
is to meet them outside the door and give
them a sound drubbing; at least one was so
received not long since......There are fifty 
or fifty one counties in the State of Califor-
nia......In the suburbs of Paris, near the 
river Seine, houses are standing in vast lakes
of water from the overflow of that river......
A distinguished member of the French In-
stitute has been struck from the jury list for
declaring his unbelief in the existence of a 
God......A boy in Georgia is reported to
have refused $30,000 for a patent watch......
A recent ball given to the patients in the
lunatic asylum at Blackwell's Island, by
their physicians, is said to have resulted in
much good......A prize of one thousand 
dollars, for the best history of the United
States since the Civil War, is offered by the
King of Denmark......Mrs. M. J. Lamb, of
New York, is preparing a history of the 
Empire City......An old farmer states that
he has cured his daughter of the Grecian
bend, by pouring water on her and holding
her in the sun till she warped back again......
Streams in the neighborhood of Ghent, 
Belgium, have overflowed their embank-
ments and the country is inundated three
feet deep with water......Washington street,
Boston, had a $75,000 fire on the 23rd of
December which caused considerable con-
sternation......George Colton, a celebrated
American Indian painter and traveler, died
at Jersey City, New York, two days before
Christmas, 78 years old......A young lady in
Owensberg, while handling a pistol the
other day. accidentally shot herself through
the heart......All portions of the country
northwest, give accounts of almost unpre-
cedented cold weather......Three passenger
cars were recently precipitated from the
track, near Tonah, Wisconsin, by the break-
ing of a rail on the Milwaukee and St. Paul
Railroad, killing one man and injuring
several......Stokes second trial opened on
December 23, result like the first—nothing
definite concluded......A diamond was re-
cently found in the African diamond fields,
of 288 carats......The Pope severely de-
nounces the conduct of the Italian and
German Governments, and declares that
church property sold by order of the Italian
Parliament conveys no title to the purchaser
......A fire at Portland, Oregon, a few days
[new column]
since, destroyed $350,000 worth of property.
......Thirty persons were washed away and
drowned, from the packet Germania, which
went ashore on a sand bank at the mouth of
the Gironde, during a violent storm on the
night of the 21st of December......The horse
disease has been very prevalent at Toronto,
preventing the running of stages......Rail-
road trains on some of the northern routes
have been delayed by snow......Among the
specimens of the Army Medical Museum,
which number about 15,000, are 897 human
skulls and 34 skeletons......On the 23rd of
December Jersey City, New York, had a
$60,000 fire; Helena, Arkansas, a $30,000 fire,
and East Canaan, New Hampshire, a fire
worth $50,000, on the 22nd of December.


﻿ANOTHER YEAR.

	A new year commences to-day. Eighteen
hundred and seventy-two is with the past. Its
acts are history. Some of them have been im-
portant ones for the Latter-day Saints. A year
ago to-day dark clouds seemed to hang Iower-
ingly over the people who settled these Moun-
tain Valleys. The gravest charges were made
against the leading men of the Territory, by
bad men, and sworn to by even worse ones; and
in a few days after, President Young was held
a prisoner in his own house, while other prom-
inent men were similarly charged. It looked
to those not sustained by an undying faith that
no power could rescue these servants of God
from the hands of their enemies. But those
who sought their destruction were discomfited,
for that Power which has so long and so often
preserved the Saints, made bare His arm for
their deliverance, yet the unbelieving would
not realize the hand of God in the overthrowing
of those who sought the lives of His servants.
	During that trying period thousands of the
women of Utah longed for a medium through
which they could give utterance to their feel-
ings, thair faith, their devotion to the cause of
truth, and their unwavering hope in the future.
It was during that period that the project of the
Exponent was first thought of, and its publica-
tion talked of by a few interested in the matter;
although it was not until June that the way
seemed clear to fairly usher it into existence.
Now, we commence another year, with the
mutterings of the enemies of truth, and their 
expressed determinations to do all the wicked-
ness that is in their hearts. But the same
Power that has always controlled will control,
and they will be able to accomplish nothing
more than they are permitted to do for working
out the purposes of the Almighty.
	But the women of Utah are deeply interested
in all these movements. Ostensibly any blow
that may be aimed at the Church will be
directed against the men; but can our husbands,
fathers, brothers and sons be made the objects
of calumnious attacks, or even worse, and we
not be participators? And while much that
may be attempted will be done in the alleged
behalf of the “down-trodden women of Utah,”
shall we not fling back the slander to those who
utter it.” And as we honor manhood, andhold


virtue and chastity sacred as life, and love 
liberty as we love existence, shall we not repu- 
diate the wolves in sheeps’ clothimg, that would 
fawn around our young and guileless maidens
that they might destroy them!	
	With the opening of the New Year we ask
the patrons of the Exponent to continue their
labors in its behalf, that its instrumentalty for 
good may be widened and extended; and we
shall endeavor to labor faithfully, with the aid
of our sisters in the same noble object, to make
it what its name imports, An honest exponent
of the views of the women of Utah.


﻿MIXED PARTIES.

	This is the season when parties are many
and numerously attended. Social enjoyment
is sought by all classes and by all races of
people, and the people of this Territory have,
since its earliest settlement, encouraged,
especially in the winter season when out-door
work was often almost impossible, innocent and
recreative amusements and social gatherings.
When in each town and settlement everybody
knew everybody else, and was sure of meeting
only friends or acquaintances in whom he or
she had confidence, there existed no necessity
for strictness of inquiry as to who would be
present at a party. But things have changed,
and strangers are often now admitted to parties
in this Territory who are not proper associates
for innocent and pure-minded young people,
especially young ladies. We refer to what has
been called “mixed parties," where the price
of admission is placed at a certain figure, and
where every person is welcome who will pay
the money at the door. To such places every
character, no matter how vile, can claim
admission; and, there, simple and guileless
young girls may be thrown into the society of
men practiced in all the wiles and arts by which
maidens are lured to destruction. No wise
father or mother will allow their children to
attend such parties if they are aware of their
character; and as some of this kind have been
already gotten up, with the invitations headed
“select,” and as it is presumable that others will
be so gotten up, we earnestly recommend
parents to make the strictest inquiries where
the slightest doubt rests upon their minds, that
they may be satisfied beforehand their children
are not exposed to blighting evil, nor thrown in
the way of insidious and dangerous temptation.


﻿REAL ETIQUETTE.

	In those homes where parents observe all the
little courtesies belonging to refinement of social
intercourse, in daily life, are reared and edu-
cated the true ladies and gentlemen of society.
The charms of beauty, of gracefulness and of
manners, are born of the inward soul, and are
qualities of the mind, not of the outward person.
Books on manners and etiquette are unnecessary
for children whose parents possess the simple
yet important tact of making themselves agree-
able and courteous in the family circle. For
young people will unconsciously imitate those
ways, tones and expressions with which they
are familiar, and that influence becomes a part 
of their natures. A woman who bears about
her a continuous care and thoughtfulness for
the happiness of others, gives her offspring
truer and more lasting lessons in etiquette, by
her daily example, than years of study and
countless lectures upon the subject would en- 
able them to acquire. A cordial and pleasant
manner bears a force of sunny magnetism, the
influence of which is felt by all who approach
the agent of such power; and true civility often
does good when most unconscious of its ability.
If we notice carefully that which is unpleasant


and disagreeable to us in the conduct of others,
and avoid making use of anything similar,
and observe closely those obliging, modest
merits in the characters of those whose com-
panionship is ever fascinating and desirable,
and cultivate like principles, we need waste
little thought besides on etiquette.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.

	PRESIDENT B. YOUNG and party arrived
safely at St. George, in the early part of last
week, in excellent health, having held meetings
at the principle settlements by the way down,
much to the edification of the Saints.
	AS CHRISTMAS has passed and the merry
New year is again with us, we wish our friends
and patrons a very happy day of it, and many
returns of the season. Damp and disagreeable
as the weather has been during the holiday
week, we are pleased to admit that no one, so
far as we have learned, has allowed this incon-
venience to interfere with their enjoyment.
	ON THE 22nd ult., we received a brief note
from sister Amelia M. Frodsham, of Ogden—
one of the firmest and most faithful and
energetic friends of the EXPONENT—bearing the
melancholy iutelligence that her husband,
brother Frodsham, departed this life on the
morning of the 21st at a quarter past nine. Our
sympathies for the bereaved lady are, if pos-
sible, increased, from the fact that at the time
of the death of her worthy husband, and for
several days previous, she had also a little
daughter lying very seriously ill. That the
child has recovered, and that the family may
be well sustained and comforted, under the
heavy loss which has deprived them of so dear
and true a friend, we sincerely hope.
	JUST NOW we learn, or rather are reminded,
that at the Territorial Fair, held in this city
last October, the first prize on quilts was
awarded to the quilt belonging to the Eighth
Ward Relief Society. That Society received
the prize money offered for the same, but
through some mistake of the reporters, the
honor was given, through the papers, to the
Twentieth Ward Relief Society, which drew
only the second prize on quilts. The Eighth
Ward Society should also have been credited
with the third prize on ottoman covers, which
the papers all omitted, or published wrong. At
fairs nothing unfair should be countenanced;
we therefore take pleasure in rectifying the
mistakes made by the EXPONENT, in common
with other papers, as soon as apprized of them.
A month or two earlier would have been all the
better.
	A TERRIBLE snow-slide occurred in Little
Cottonwood canyon, on Thursday evening last,
December 26th, by which ten teams were car-
ried away from the road and clear over to the
other side of the creek, smashing sleighs and
wagons, killing and maiming animals, and
worst of all, destroying the lives of some eleven
men. It was a fearful catastrophe, and shows
the terrible power of a mass of snow, light and
feathery is it appears when it falls, as it is
hurled from the mountain sides into the
yawning canyon below, This is the greatest loss
of life yet entailed by one of these avalanches
in Utah, and was caused by a large number of
ore-hauling teams being in the path of the
avalanche. But two bodies were recovered up
till Saturday night; one, of a man from Camp
Douglas, named Peter Rahn; the other of Leroy
Dibble, from Erie County, New York. It is ex-
pected that some of the bodies will not be
recovered until Spring, though a large force has
been searching for them


﻿“ACROSS THE WATERS.”

	CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.

			Liverpool, Nov. 19th, 1872.
MY DEAR LULA:—		
	l am now on “terra firma” but so highly
elevated that I almost claim to be filling an
aerial position, being located on the fourth
floor in the “North-Western Hotel,” a
spacious building. The room I occupy, in
company with Mrs. Thompson and Miss
Little, fronts St. George’s Hall, said to be
the largest edifice in the city.
	In my last, I left you with the Falls of
Niagara. I do not recollect anything of
special interest occurring between there and
New York, unless the presence of Hon. Ben
Butler should be so considered. Not having
seen him, I felt considerable interest when
it was announced that he was on the train,
and to my entire satisfaction, he entered
the car in which I was riding, and seated
himself where I had a good view of his
ample phiz. As we arrived at towns by the
way, the citizens no doubt having been ap-
prised of his coming, were out in masses, to
whom he delivered electioneering speeches,
which were listened to with the usual en-
thusiasm of such occasions. For my part, I
feel to respect any man who possesses suffi-
cient independenc of character, in this age
of political bribery, to speak as he thinks—
which I believe Ben Butler does.
	We arrived in New York on Sunday
morning—it was raining, but luckily for us,
the beautiful depot afforded us shelter,
while, after considerable delay, a carriage
(probably the property of some unpopular
infidel) was procured to carry ourselves and
our baggage to St. Nicholas’ Hotel. The
fact of our arrival on the Sabbath was the
cause of delay, this very religious people
have plenty of cabs and hacks to receive
strangers, on other days of the week, which
strongly reminds me of a class of religionists
referred to in New Testament history. I am
now speaking in general terms—there are
very excellent people living in New York,
I know of several although my knowledge
is very limited.
	St. Nicholas’ Hotel is a splendid establish-
ment—it contains 600 rooms and accommo-
dates from ten to eleven hundred occupants.
It is freely ventilated and so warmed with
pipes running in various directions as to
keep an equilibrium of temperature. Water
is conveyed to and from the rooms in pipes,
so that you are not stinted—you can wash
yourself and rinse too, if you choose. The
whole establishment is lighted with gas,
and you can have as much light as you
please; yet I think there is an extra charge
if you keep it burning all night. What I
consider an enormity is the charge of one
dollar per day for fire, however small it may
be; and then the porter graciously expects a
small fee for his condescension in making it
for you. But that is all very well—he is so
obliging and does it so much better than
any one else.
	I stayed three nights in New York—spent
two days in the city and one in visiting
Willard Young at West Point. In company
of President George A. Smith, my brother
and brother Dunford; I went to the office of
the Notary Public, the kind and affable Mr.
None, before whom I solemnly subscribed
to my allegiance to the United States Gov-
ernment, etc., according to due form of law,
and he made out my application which he
promised to send to Washington for my
passport, which I expect to meet in London
on my arrival. In conversation with Mr.
None, brother Smith spoke of his rejection
from the Philadelphia Convention, on
account of his religion, when Mr. N. ex-
claimed emphatically, “How ridiculous!”
he expressed much pleasure on meeting
President Smith, saying he was the first
official of our people with whom he had met.
We then called on the “Consul General of
the German Empire,” Mr. Kosing, where we
met the very gentlemanly Mr. Schleiden,
member of the German Parliament. Both
these gentlemen had visited Salt Lake,
where they made Br. Smith’s acquaintance.
They spoke of their visit in the highest
terms.
	Through the kindness of Br. J. W. Young,
I enjoyed a pleasant turn around Central
Park; and here, amid its shades, fountains,
equestrian statues, etc. etc., I leave you for
the present.
						Eliza R. Snow.


﻿CORRESPONDENCE.
				——
		FRANKLIN, Oneida Co., Idaho, 
				   December 10, 1872. 	
MISS L. L. GREENE:—
	I left Salt Lake City, November 2nd,
and arrived at Box Elder station in safety,
had a very pleasant trip. There I took
passage on the Utah Northern. When I got to 
Hampton’s Station, the terminus, in compny
with some friends I stepped on to the
engine and ran on to the end of the track,
about four miles; when passing some very
deep fills, sitting as I did where I could see
all the danger, on hearing the man at the
Engine say he had never run over that road
before, all at once my blood seemed to stop
in its course, I felt my heart stop its beat-
ing; I hardly knew where I was. But in a
few minutes I saw we were all safe on level
ground, which made all right again. There
we saw men laying ties and rails; as I stood
looking at those willing hands at that great
work, I said in my heart, “what could this
people do if they could be let alone!”
	We stepped on to our swift beast, and ran
back to the station, found the coach in wait-
ing, were soon seated and off for Logan,
where we arrived in safety. When I saw how
far I had come in, in so short a time, I
felt to thank the Lord for his kindness in
helping this people to build the Rail-
road. And when I arrived in this far off
northern clime and found all my children
and friends well and prospering I felt more
than thankful. I am stopping at present at
my son-in-law’s, A. Stolker, who is now, in
company with Bishop Lorenzo Hatch, at
Boise City, the Capital of this Territory,
attending the legislature, of which they are
members. .I have seen letters from them;
they speak well of the people of that place,
but say they had a hard time in getting
there. Were way laied by robbers and
commanded to stop, but the driver on the
coach put whip to his horses and was soon
out of their reach. Besides, the coach was
upset in going down a very steep hill, but
happily there were none severely hurt.
	Well, I find good Saints in this land. The
men are alive to the calls of the Bishops to
work on the Railroad, the sisters to looking
after the poor.
	I am well and feel first rate in spirits.
I expect to spend the winter in this north-
ern country. We have had some very cold
weather, but it is fine now. I have not for-
gotten you nor your labors; may the Lord
bless you in the same.
					AMANDA SMITH.


A GERMAN beggar girl in Boston, who
has no hands, is reported to be the owner of
a fine residence in that city, besides other
property, all purchased with money gathered
from foolish but charitable people in the
streets.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿			  For the Exponent.
		KATIE'S BIRTHDAY PRESENT.
				     ——
	Yesterday Katie was eleven years old.
As father was leaving the breakfast table to
go to his office he said to her, “Put on your
hat and cloak, Katie, and walk up town with
me, and we’ll see if we can’t find a bird and
cage that will do for you to bring home as a
'Birthday Present’.” Pleased beyond
measure, Katie did as directed, and half an
hour afterward, came home with a lovely
Goldfinch in a perfect palace of a cage.
	“Isn’t Papa good?” said the young lady,
as she proceeded to hang her new pet in
the parlor window.
	But all the remainder of the morning
Katie seemed troubled. She supplied her
bird plentifully with food and water, and
every few minutes she would go to it, as it
hopped about from one side to the other of
its magnificent prison, and putting her lips
close to the bars, say somthing in a half
whisper, which sounded like a tender, pity-
ing mother soothing a fretful child.
	When father came home to dinner, he
asked for Katie, and was surprised, he said,
that she was not at hand to meet him with
her merry prattle, as usual. “How is the
'Birthday Present,’ my little girl?” asked
he as she came silently and thoughtfully to-
ward him. The child’s face crimsoned, as
she put up her mouth for the accustomed
kiss, without speaking.	
	“What is it Katie, doesn’t the Goldfinch
suit you? Would you have preferred a
Canary?” father continued. “Well, no,
dear Papa, I realy am not satisfied with my
'Birthday Present,’ though I ought to be
ashamed to acknowledge it, I know,"
answered Kate demurely. “Not if you
mean it, my frank darling,” answered our
indulgent parent, “let Mat have the Gold-
finch and I will bring you home a Canary
this evening.” “But I don’t want a Canary
Papa! and had rather the Goldfinch were
taken back; for although it is very beauti-
ful, and its singing delightful, I cannot look
at it or listen to its music without feeling as
though I must cry. I don’t want a bird,
Papa; I cannot think it is fair or just or
right, according to the laws of nature and
the statutes of creation, to keep the little
creatures housed up thus, when the broad
firmament and free, wild woods are their
native elements. I should never feel com-
fortable to have one of the little captives in
the house.”
	Thus philosophized our sensitiev hero-
ine, and who shall argue that ! those
girlish reasonings were not correct? Father
did not, but yielding to her childish persua-
sions, he carried the bird and cage back to
the store, and sent his sympathetic daughter
a splendid volume on ornithology instead,
with which she is highly delighted. Papa
thinks Katie will make a fine “Woman’s
Rights” woman, one of these days, and that
she ought to belong to the “Society for the
Prevention of cruelty to Animals.”
						LITTLE SISTER.
S. L. CITY, December 1872.,


A FARMER of Alvarado, Alameda county,
some months since, put in fifty acres of seed
for an experiment in chicory culture. He
went on a visit to the East.		On his return
recently he found that instead of fifty acres
of chicory, he had fifty acres of German
salad, the result of a trifling mistake in
seed.


RECTOR'S daughter (to Sunday scholar)—
"Oh, you have an elder brother; well, how
old is he?"	School-boy—"Dunno, miss, but
he just started o' swearin."


MISCELLANEOUS. 
			   ——
	A MISSING minister of the gospel is
wanted in Howwood, Scotland. He left his
charge about two months ago, for a holiday
trip to America, and has not returned. A
young lady disappeared at the same time,
but of course this fact has no connection
with his “lighting out.”
	A DOLLY VARDEN PIE:—Take about four
yards of light dough, gather it up in light
flounces, crimp the edges, and fill up with
fruit; then lay on the overskirt, fasten it;
with buttons of dough connected with frills
of the same, and you will have a tasteful
and elegant pie, only you must eat it, not
wear it.
	THE willow that bends to the tempest
often escapes better than the oak which re-
sists it; and so, in great calamities, it some-
times happens that light and frivolous spirits
recover their elasticity and presence of mind
sooner than those of a loftier character.—
“Sir Walter Scott.”
	LIKE flakes of snow that fall unperceived
upon the earth, seemingly unimportant
events of life succeed each other. As the
snow gathers together so are our habits
formed. No single action creates, however
it exhibits man’s character; but as the
tempest hurls the avalanche down the
mountain, so passion may overthrow the
edifice of truth and virtue.
	Dr. Franklin recommends a young man,
in the choice of a wife, to select from a bunch, 
giving as a reason, that when there are many
daughters they improve each other, and
from emulation acquire more accomplish
ments, and know more, and do more, than
a single child spoiled by parental fondness.
This is a comfort to people with large
families.	
	CHISELED FEATURES.—The features may
be common and characterless, but if they are
soft and uncertain, and the spaces around
them ample, they are safe.		But of the
defined forms and scanty quantities let us
beware though, fond mothers call them
“chiseled features” and “regular profiles.”
What is admired as delicate and precise
now, may be too likly to turn out sharp and
mean by-and-by.
	SELF-EXAMINATION. — Few sufficiently
practice the habit of self-examination.
Through life man is liable to error and
requires check, rebuke and counsel. He
should personify hisi own conscience. He
should be his own good spirit, hovering
over himself in moments of passion, temp-
tation and danger, and reminding himself
that he owes a duty to his Maker with which
the opinions and consequences of the world
have nothing to do.
	WOMAN'S DRUDGERY.—The hygienic
system is pre-eminently the cause of woman,
both as respects the preservation of health
and the treatmeut of disease. A simpler
and more wholesome plan would relieve her
of one-half of her present hard toil and
drudgery, while it would promote the health
of her household. At least four-fifths of all
the money expended for medicines and
medical advice, are paid because of the
diseases of women and children. And nine-
tenths of all the care, nursing, night watch-
ing and privation of sleep and rest because
of sick children, are performed and suffered
by women. The Medical Society in New
York, which, on one of its festive occasions,
toasted women in the following words, had
truth, if not poetry, as the basis of the
sentiment:
	“Woman”—God’s best gift to man, and
the chief support of all the doctors.”


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.
				—
	ENGLAND allows its paupers two shillings
and sixpence (62c.) a week to live on.
	THE Bishop of Philadelphia proposes to
cure the horse disease with prayer.
	THE Knights of St. Patrick of St. Louis
talk of a $25,000 monument to the memory
of Daniel O’Connell.
	TWO hundred thousand gallons of wine
were made at Yountville this season and
100,000 gallons of brandy.	
	THE statute of Chief Justice Taney was
upon the pedestal at Annapolis, Md., on the 
21st of November. It represents Taney in 
a sitting posture.
	THE "Papal Index,” contains the names
of nineteen books which the Holy Father
prohibits. Among them is Dr. Buchner’s 
“Force and Matter.”
	THE Boston “Pilot,” twice burnt out,
says: “We are just about tired of this 
phoenix business. We don’t want to rise
nobly from our ashes any more.”
	EX-President Hopkins, of Williams Col-
lege, has been invited by the graduates of
that institution resident in Troy, N. Y., to
lecture in that city on Professor Tyndall’s 
“Prayer Gauge.”
	THE working girls in the Arlington woolen 
mills have sent to Jennie Collins eighty-one
dollars for the sewing girls of Boston, who
have lost their work by the fire.
	INDIANAPOLIS boasts of a contractor who
can neither read, write, nor figure, and yet
can accurately estimate the number of bricks
for a wall of given dimensions, and the cost
of construction.
	CARDWELL, the British War Minister, 
has sanctioned the introduction of playing
cards into the soldiers’ recreation room as
an experiment in the way of weaning soldiers
from the public houses.
	COLONEL Thomas A. Scott has completed
contracts for transporting supplies, provi-
sions and laborers, and 25,000 tons of iron to
be used in building the transcontinental
railroad, which begins at the end of the
Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railroad.
	A MAN’S total outward work, his whole
effect opon the world in twenty-four hours,
has been reckoned about 350 foot-tons. That
may be taken as a good “hard day’s work.”
During the same the heart has been working
at the rate of 120 foot-tons. That is to say,
if all the pulses of a day and night could be
concentrated and welded into one great
throb, it would be enough to throw a ton of
iron 120 feet into the air.
	IF the following is not a “Fact,” it ought
to be. We are personally positive of many
facts not half so good; and the figuring is
certainly excellent, showing that Ohio,
with all its intemperance has still some true
husbands, and it is to be hoped they are
justly appreciated:  “The epizootic has de-
veloped in Cleveland, Ohio, among other
things a vast deal of marital devotion. The
wife of one gentleman desired to attend the
Patti concert, but was in feeble health and
unable to walk. The husband put her into
a stout baby carriage, and proceeded straight-
way to the hall where Patti was to sing; and
at the close of the entertainment he trundled 
his wife home in the same style.  Another
wife desired to attend the wedding of a
friend, some distance away from her resi-
dence; but the horses were all sick and a
carriage could not be had for love or money.
Carefully wrapping her up and placing her
on the seat of a high buggy, the husband
took his place between the thills, and for
the nonce ‘played horse’ most successfully.”


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Written for the EXPONENT.
	IMPORTANT EVENTS OF ONE YEAR.
				    ——
		A HOLIDAY SKETCH BY L. L. 
				      —
	It was New Year’s Eve, 1863, and we were
having a regular nice time.  There had
been a shooting match, father was on the
winning side, and was to take supper with
Mr. W., who was to pay for both tickets to
the ball that evening as well. We were all
going to the ball, all but mother and the
little folks, and with those exceptions my
“all,” includes my father, three sisters, a
brother-in-law and myself.
	How clear and bright the hall was, and
how happy every one appeared! It seemed
to me, my sisters had never looked so well
as upon that New Year’s Eve, and they
enjoyed themselves so much and were so
unconscious of self, that I delighted in
watching them. It was not strange, either,
that I should very much admire the taste of
an intelligent lady, who remarked to me,
that the figure of my sister Maud was really
the finest in the room. I wonder if Mr. A.
remembers how I danced a reel with him
that evening? He was so awkward and un-
managable that, beginning at the head of
the set, when “down the centre” came for
us, I marched him to the foot and there
remained, and he still imagines, for ought I
know, that we went through the whole change
as did the others. My sister Eva, who was
dancing in the same set, laughed so much
that I almost became plagued over it. The
only unpleasantness that occurred, was that I
had to go home before I wanted to—I was
only fourteen,
	Three hundred and sixty-five days sped
by us, one after another, bringing each its
varying scenes. During that little period
one sister gave to earth a tiny, new inhabit-
ant; Eva was wooed, wen and wedded, and
another sister left us to return no more. In
less than six months time, birth, marriage
and death were all visitants of our family
circle.
	Yet there was no gloom around our fire-
side, as we sat and listened to father’s grave,
or humorous stories; and Maud and I 
repeated dialogues and sung songs and
hymns, on New Year's Eve, 1864.


ABUNDANTLY PROTECTED.—It was one
evening last Summer when a lady who be-
longs on the editorial staff of one of the
leading dailies of New York, had been
detained by office duties until rather a late
hour. Living on the Heights in Brooklyn,
but a short distance from Fulton Ferry, it
was not much of a venture to go home with-
out an escort, and so she started. On the
boat, standing outside enjoying the breeze
after the day’s toil, she perceived a gentle-
man (?) in rather close proximity to where
she was, but said nothing.
	“Are you alone?” said he, as the boat
neared the shore.
	“No, sir,” said the lady; and without
further interruption, when the boat touched,
she stepped off.
	"I thought you were not alone,” said the
fellow, stepping to her side again.
	“I am not,” replied the lady.
	“I don’t see any one. Who is with you?”
	“God Almighty and the angels; I’m never
alone.”	
	“You keep too good company for me,
madame; good night!” and he shot for a
Fulton Avenue car, then nearly a block
away. The heroic woman was permitted
to keep to “the right as the law directs,”
and enjoy that full measure of quiet satisfac-
tion one always feels from keeping good
company.


﻿THE SEX.
			    ——
	THE Grecian ladies counted their age
from their marriage, not their birth.
	FOUR hundred Brooklyn teachers, women,
have petitioned for an increase of salaries.
	JENNY Lind has been singing in the choir
of the American Episcopal Church in Flor-
ence.
	GRACE Greenwood has met with success
in her reading in Colorado.	
	THE story goes that the Empress Carlotta
will recover her health of body, but never
strength of mind.
	MISS Dixon, a Southern lady of admired
skill in penmanship, writes with both hands
simultaneously.
	THE young ladies of the Jackson Presby-
terian Female College have resolved them-
selves into a “Cozy Club.”
	A WOMAN named Mary Tabor has acted
as mate on a Missouri steamboat for two
years, earning forty-five dollars per month.
	FULLER states that Henry VIII, of Eng-
land, gave a woman the whole revenue of a
convent as a reward for making a pudding
which happened to gratify his taste.
	THE wife of Marshal Guebriant acted as
representative for France, and was acknowl-
edge as such, at the court of Ladislas IV.,
King of Poland, in 1646.
	HARRIET Martineau is a confirmed inva-
lid, and sees no visitors at her cottage,
"The Knoll,” at Ambleside, near Lake
Windermere, in England.
	A THOUSAND American girls, for whom
the schools on this side of the water are not
considered good enough, are receiving their
education in France and Italy.
	THE funeral of Fanny Fern took place in
New York, and in accordance with the
wishes of the deseased, was private. The
remains were taken to Boston.
	A REMARKABLE incident is related of a
young girl in Dundee, whose hands and
feet were all amputated in consequence of
embolic gangrene and for whom artificial
hands and feet were specially devised,
which she uses with very little difficulty
and much satisfaction.
	THE Princess Louise of Hesse—Alice of
England--has been chosen first Prsident of the
International Association for the Protection
of the Rights of Women; and the Congress
of Darmstadt, which made this election, has
chosen several English women as corres-
ponding members.
	MADAME Von Goethe, widow of the great
German poet’s only son, recently died at
Weimar, Saxony, very old. During the
lifetime of her father-in-law, she did the
honors of the house, and presided at many a
social gathering marked by the presence of
the most eminent authors and politicians of
the age. Goethe loved her as a daughter,
and admired her writings, and at the time
she edited the Mitternacht “Zeitung,” used
to speak of her as one of the ablest critics of
the age
	THE girls employed by Macullar, Wil-
liams & Parker in their tailoring establish-
ment, Boston, declined to accept their wages
for one week’s work, thinking that the sum
in the aggregate might be acceptable in
consideration of the heavy losses of the firm.
On the other hand, the members of the firm,
solicitous for the welfare of those whose
losses might be small but sufferings great,
told Jennie Collins to send to them any
work girls, and particularly their own, who
might be in need and they would provide
for them.


﻿FLOWERS.
			      ——
	WHO lives to fancy, rarely can be rich, 
who lives to nature never can be poor.
	WALK worthy of your vocation! You have
a noble escutcheon, disgrace it not by folly.
	WHEN you write, or get a friend to write
on your own business or for your own 
advantages, be careful to pay the postage
yourself.
	THE best property a man can be possessed
of, since happiness is the boon for which all
wish to bargain, is a clear conscience and 
a contented mind.	
	A HIGH sense of honor in all things, an 
adherence to truth, delicacy and politeness
are the essential and	distinguished charac-
teristics of a gentleman.
	TRUTH dreads no scrutiny; shields herself 
behind no breastwork of established custom
or of respectable authority, but proudly
stands on her own merits.
	TO an active and an ingenious mind there
is no pursuit more fascinating than the
pursuit of knowledge, no pleasure more ex-
quisite than the discovery of truth.
	LABOR allied with virtue may look up to
heaven and not blush, while all worldly 
dignities, prostituted to vice, will leave 
their owner without a corner of the universe
in which to hide his shame.
	DON'T laugh in company without ex-
plaining why you laugh. There are always
some sensitive ones who will believe them-
selves ridiculed without the slightest occa- 
sion.
	VIRTUE and truth constitute true nobility, 
these can be your’s as well as another’s, you
have only to maintain them. The poorest	
and lowliest can be as truly noble as the
rich and great.
	THERE is more than one reason why "Ye
cannot serve God and mammon;” there is
not time to do both even if both could be
kept in remembrance; who ever heard of a
rich person (“one who trusted in his riches,”)
who could find time to keep holy the Sab-
bath?
	A GOOD action however small should
never be omitted, a kind word, no matter
how simple should never be suppressed. 
One little deed or word, often saves one
from dishonor, sometimes from destruction,
and the actors or speakers are never the
poorer for having given what cost them
nothing.
	IF darkness obscures your way, think of
those whose lives are darker still, and be
comforted; If sunshine and gladness is your
portion, try to infuse golden drops of the
same, into hearts less fortunate and thus
increase your store; for like a spring of
water is the human heart; the more you
draw out of it, the more it is capable of re-
ceiving.


﻿NECESSARY EVILS.
					—
	The other evening, being out in company,
I heard a gentlemen (?) declare that women
were necessary evils. Now was not that
brilliant? Quite original. In down East
phraseology, let me exclaim “due tell.”
Being only a woman, I was covered with a
due sense of my degraded position. A
necessary evil!
	Will anybody define man’s position on
this sublunary sphere?
	Let me whisper in your ear—this gentle-
man has had three wives—think he is
rather fond of said evils, but don’t know.
	Wonder if his sons with such training
won’t become unmitigated causes of regret to
some poor necessary evils.
						ONE OF THEM.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿CHILDREN’S VOICES.
			       —--
	On the 15th of December, 1872, there was
a sort of Sabbath School exhibition in the
14th Ward Assembly Rooms. Music, sing-
ing and recitations were offered by children
of all sizes, from the “we wean” that gave
its little story in a perpect baby tone, to
adult manhood. There is something so
winsome, so benignly sweet in the voice of
innocence, that the same words spoken or
sung by persons of more mature years seem
to convey a different impression, and to have
a less desirable effect upon the heart. And
on this particular Sabbath it might have
been a fancy, but if so it was a very happy
one—it seemed as though the very voices of
the children had really become like those of
the angels, especially in their singing.
“Children may come to the Savior” and
“Hearts and Homes,” were rendered with
so much pathos that tears, grateful, pleasant
tears might have done honor to the eyes of
a soldier who had been a listener; but
“Music”—
	“There’s music by the fireside,
	“There’s music in the hall;
	“There’s music in the school-room,
	“There’s music for us all;
	"There’s music in the fountain;
	“There’s music in the air;
	“There's music in the true heart,
	“There’s music everywhere:”
How shall the rendering of this immortal
eulogy on the divine art be described !
The very touch of the tiny, child fingers,
upon the keys of the organ sounded as if
softened by the influence of sweet souled
messengers from choirs above!
	The neately arranged little dialogue and
song “What was witnessed in the Heavens?”
was also very chastely and sweetly executed.
	The singing was all delighful, the recita-
tions splendid.	Where order is so well ob-
served, who could ever tire of “children’s
voices?” Let us have more music.


THE seal can be readily tamed, and be-
comes very affectionate. It may be taught
many things, such as shaking hands, bowing
and kissing. The cry of the seal is soft and
flute-like, and resembles certain sounds
common to all languages, “pa pa” or “ma
ma.”


A PRIZE !
				     ——
	Should be in every house!
		The SINGER SEWING MACHINE!
Will do the most delicate and elegant, as well as
the strongest or plainest, sewing, in a style un-
equalled by any other Machine. Received the first
diploma at the Territorial Fair, in October last. Its 
Embroidery attachment is an object of general ad-
miration.
	More of the Singer are sold than of any other
Machine. Call and see them at the Singer Sewing
Machine Department, two doors south of Eagle
Emporium, Salt Lake City. 
				Z. C. M. I. General Agents. 
_______________________________________________

SPECIAL TO THE LADIES. 
			  

	We would respectfully call your attention to the
fact, that we have one of the Largest and best Stocks
of Ladies', Misses' and Children's FURS in Sets, as
also Capes and Collars (separate), that will be found
in this City. Also a large assortment of Fine Shoes
of Philadelphia and California make.
	The above goods we will sell at the lowest possible
price.
						DUNFORD & SONS, 
							SALT LAKE CITY.
[new column]
CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
			    ——
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah,
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
________________________________________________
			JOHNSON’S
	HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES !
Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-
	ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.
BONESET PILLS.  Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.

	EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.	CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.
	ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills. Price 50 cents.
	These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at
		ZION’S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,
Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.
	If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them.
	Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.
	AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.
From the Laboratory of	
						J. E. JOHNSON,
						 St. George, Utah.
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city.   Just the place for ladies
to purchase. 

Z. C. M. I. 
	
	RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.

 We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable, 
		
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
	
riety of our Patrons. 

	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated

		SALT LAKE GLOVES.	

Children's Hosiery, Shoos, and Gloves, a specialty. 
	
   While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics

of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,

Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-

est possible figure. 
				  H. B. CLAWSON, Sup't. 
[new column]

		WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
				 —
	     A UTAH LADIES’ JOURNAL.
				 —
	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral 
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani- 
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.
	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.
	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? “It is bet- 
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented 
by others !"
	For these reasons, and that wemen may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica- 
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by, 
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been 
commenced.
	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.
	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.
	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In Woman’s Exponent a department
will be devoted to reports of their matings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and secretarics of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.
	WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published semi-
monthly, each  number containing eight pages, quarte. 
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah. 
	TERMS, Strictly in Advance :
  1 Copy one year,       $2.00	1 Copy six months,    $1.00
10 Copies one year,    18.00     10 Copies six months,    9.00
	No subscription received for less than six months. 
	It is earnestly desired that the bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a 
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine. 

	Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City, 
Utah. 

Dr. W. H. GROVES,
						DENTIST, 
	Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City. 
		Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
			   ——
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy [-]ing
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.


Woman's Exponent.
VOL. I.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1873.	NO. 16.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
			     —
	THE "EPIZOOTIC" has reached Denver, 
Colorado. 	That is getting uncomfortably
near. 
	AN EASTERN paper says Susan B. An-
thony stands up for her rights like a man;
and considers it a compliment. 
	ITALY CONTINUES to reduce the number
of her brigands and professional murderers
by sending them as emigrants to the United
States. 
	PARDONING CONVICTS has become a popu-
lar pastime for State governors. The
goveror of Ohio was asked the other day to
pardon a batch of three hundred at a sitting,
but he took time to think it over.
	TWO EXPEDITIONS are to start simultan-
eously from England for extreme opposite
points; one to attempt the discovery of the
North Pole, and the other the South Pole.
They are likely to find something; ice, cer-
tainly, if nothing of greater public interest
	BARNUM HAD his great menagerie and
circus destroyed by fire in New York, and
immediately telegraphed to Europe for half
a million dollars worth of curiosities. Three
times burned out, he rises each time with
the occasion—and gets the newspapers to
tell of it. Shrewd advertising.
	THE ILLINOIS State woman’s suffrage
association will assist Susan B. Anthony in
her trial by every means in their power.
They consider the indignity to which she
has been subjected, in being imprisoned
because of casting her ballot as an American
citizen, as offered to the entire women of
America.
	AN ORDINANCE was introduced in the St.
Louis City Council, to repeal what is known
as the "Social Evil” act, under which fallen
women are licensed to pursue their fearful
traffic; and it was almost unanimously re-
jected. An ordinance requiring men who
patronize the places and persons thus
licensed, to be also licensed, would have
been rejected as unanimously. Such is a
specimen of governing “justice.”
	THE DRIVER of a New York street car,
seeing a young girl grossly insulted by a
ruffian, a couple of weeks ago, and noticing
that neither the passengers nor the con-
ductor interfered, stopped his car, thrashed
the scoundrel, threw him into the street,
and gave him in charge of a policeman.
That car-driver should have a monument,
subscribed for by defenceless ladies who
know what it is to be insulted by “gentle-
men” of the stamp that he punished so
promptly and justly. 
	ICE GORGES, in some parts of the eastern
rivers, such as the Missouri and Ohio, hav-
ing collected during the terrible storm
which raged in the latter part of December;
in their breaking up with a cessation of the
extreme cold, did immense damage in
several places, sweeping away docks, crush-
ing down coal barges, and crashing through
river steamers. Over half a million dollars
worth of property was thus destroyed in the
last eight days of December. This might
be reckoned among “the signs of the times.”
	IT IS reported that a Connecticut clergy-
man has resigned because his pious flock
[new column]
wouldn't let him play croquet. If he wished
to make a woman or “a tall girl” of himself,
why not let him? Or did they think that a
little healthy muscular exercise would drive
away misanthropic feelings, and that he
would not be able to picture the nethermost
pit with sufficiently harrowing vividness to
suit them, if he indulged in a game of
croquet?
	“SPEAK NOT thou evil of dignitaries” is
the rule to be observed in the French re-
public. A man in Lyons, some little time
ago, called Thiers “a stupid fool," and he
was promptly “jerked up” and sent to
prison. Had this rule of swift punishment
been followed during the late Presidential
campaign in this country, there is scarcely
sufficient hemp in the Union to have made
ropes enough for the necks of those who
would have had to be hanged. France is a
unique republic, of the old Venetian stripe.
	AN EASTERN paper—the Washington
“Star”—under date December 27, 1872,
says: “Sidney Rigdon, author of the Mor-
mon Bible, is dead.” It will be news to the
Latter-day Saints to learn that Sidney Rig-
don was the author of the Old and New
Testament, which form the “Mormon
Bible;” or that he was the author of the
“Book of Mormon,” which is probably what
is meant; or, indeed, that he was the
author of any really good book, although he,
at one time, held a high position in the
Church, but fell from grace through ambi-
tion, as did Lucifer.
	PLANT TREES. Thirty years ago, says an
exchange, Mrs. Lydia Wilson, of Raisin,
Michigan, stuck a willow-riding whip in
the ground and now it measures ten feet in
circumference and spreads over eighty-four
feet. Plant trees; fruit trees; shade trees, mul
berry trees to feed silk worms, or forest trees.
You leave a blessing to posterity which they
will appreciate in years to come. The
Oriental custom of planting a fruit tree on
the birth of each child is one that could be
adopted in the western world to advantage,
and no place to greater advantage than in
Utah; for our timber in the mountains is 
fast disappearing.	
	SIX GIRLS and a boy were the victims of
the Centre street fire, New York; roasted
alive; yet their bodies were allowed to re-
main for nearly a week under the ruins, in
the most populous city in the country,
because the authorities did not know who
would pay the expense of having the ruins
removed, and the lessees of the building
would not touch it for fear of injuring their
insurance. How intensely humane and
charitable New Yorkers have grown, where
a little money is involved!	This disgrace-
ful action of the police authorities and the
lessees of the burned building, should be
repudiated in some manner by the city, or
the odium will rest upon all.
	FIFTEEN WOMEN were brought before a
United States Commissioner in the State of
New York, charged with illegal voting, and
held to bail: That is, fourteen were so held,
and furnished the required security; but
the other, Miss Susan B. Anthony, refused
to furnish the bail, and was remanded to
prison. Now, the question at issue, is, does
the 11th Amendment to the Constitution
[new column]
confer upon women the right of suffrage
without State or Congressional enactments,
or the passage of a 16th Amendment to the
Constitution? As well-read lawyers and
as clever jurists as General B. F. Butler and
others hold that it does; and this Miss An-
thony declares her determination to test.
From the rapid advance made, towards
securing the recognition of this right to
women, during the past year, and the frank,
open manner in which it is advocated by
prominent men throughout the country,
there is little doubt that, whether, Miss
Anthony should succeed in this effort or not,
public sentiment would oppose her being
punished, and that in 1876 women in nearly
if not all the States, will vote for President
and Vice-President.
 A NEW United States District Attorney
has been appointed for Utah, in the person
of William Carey, of Galena, Illinois, and his
appointment was confirmed by the United
States Senate on the 8th inst. The rabid
anti-Mormons look for special legislation by
Congress against the Latter-day Saints, to
follow immediately, and that all their
desires for the destruction of those, who
settled and made this Territory what it is,
will be gratified; and yet they talk about
Christianity and profess belief in God and
in the Scriptures, while gloating, in antici-
pation, over scenes of desolation and blood-
shed brought upon an innocent, God-fearing
community! But there is an old French
proverb that will apply: “l’homme propose,
et Dieu dispose”—man proposes, and God
disposes. They have felt equally as san-
guine before, only to be disappointed as they
will be again. There are two other little
proverbs they might study to advantage;
one is, that “truth crushed to earth will
rise again;” the other, that “the blood of
the martyrs is the seed of the church.” Let
“Mormonism” alone and it will grow; perse-
cute it, and it will grow tenfold faster.


﻿PEN AND SCISSORS.
				—
	A VETERINARY surgeon who lives at
Buffalo, N. Y., lately tried to “founder” his
mother-in-law by dancing a polka with her
until she got warmed up, and then giving
her all the iced lemonade she could drink.
	THE indolent habits of the Orientals are
well illustrated by the following “bon mot,”
which in the regions of the East has
assumed the character of an adage: “No
man should run when he may walk, walk
when he may stand, stand when he may
sit, or sit when he may lie down.”
	ALWAYS pleasant is a compliment to edi-
torial ears. “I saw three excellent things
in your last paper ” said a wag to an editor.
“Ah, indeed! what were they?” inquired
the delighted knight of the quill. “Mince
pies,” replied the wag, who escaped the
paste-pot by slipping out of the door. 
	A JOLLY fisherman was asked in the
presence of a spinster, what sort of a wife
he would choose, if he were going to marry,
to which he promptly replied “An 'Ale-
wife.’ ” The spinster increased the merri-
ment which this occasioned by dryly adding,
“I like wine best, and should prefer a
grape ‘Husband-man.’”


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿[Written for the EXPONENT.
		PRAYERFUL CONFESSION.

	O God, when grief and pain beset,
	When hope and joy my soul forget,
		I bring my woe to Thee;
	I come to Thee and humbly pray
	That Thou wilt smooth my thorny way,
		And bid my sorrows flee.

	I ne’er forget to breathe Thy name,
	When o’er my pathway grief and shame
		In dreary darkness brood;
	I cry to Thee when in distress,
	Ask Thee to lift from off my breast
		Its weary, weary load,

	But when Thou healest all my woe,
	And when my soul is all aglow
		With golden beams of peace,
	My fickle heart, contented well
	'Mid transient gayeties to dwell,
		Bids all devotion cease.

	Dear Lord! assist my feeble faith,
	That not alone it prove its worth
		'Neath sorrow's blighting dew—
	That not alone I seek for aid,
	When treading paths of fearful shade,
		But make me grateful too.
								  LU DALTON,


﻿F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
				  —
			  BEAVER, Dec. 22nd, 1872.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	We send you a brief sketch of the Relief
Society in Beaver. It was organized Janu-
ary 11th, 1868 and since that time has been
steadily and constantly struggling on in our
humble sphere. We have bought a lot on
a block northwest of the public square; fenced
it; and built a house on it to meet in for
work, and to instruct and be instructed,
which has been dedicated and held sacred
for that purpose, with the exception of a day
school being taught in it about five months.
Our deeds of charity commenced in our
own city, and were extended to our sisters
on the Muddy, who were burned out; to the
Emigration fund, and to snndry other calls.
We have two shares in the Co-operative
store, have donated to the St. George
Temple, and intend to continue until it is
completed, that we may reap the reward of
our labors therein. Our exact reciepts and
disbursments I am not in possession of. On
November 17th the Society met, according
to previous appointment, when a vote was
taken to drop the word “Female,” from our
Society’s name which was carried unanimous-
ly. That our labors may be directed in the
right channel, and the right spirit attend them
is our humble desire. May God bless the
Editor of the Exponent, and all who con-
tribute to its columns; may their pens be
inspired, that the world may know that we
are not the “down-trodden” women that we
are represented to be! The Gospel has made
us free, free as the pure air we breathe in
our Mountain Home! May we ever defend
its pure principles!
				MRS. LUCINDA HOUD,
							President.
				MRS. RUTH TYLER,
					"  JANE FILLIS
							Counselors.
				    —
				Fillmore City,
				     December 24, 1872.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	Our Society was reorganized on the 20th
of July, 1870, Caroline Callister, President;
Delilah Olson and Melissa Samson Coun-
selors. The latter removing to her former
home, in Salt Lake City, Belinda Pratt was
chosen to fill her place. A spirit of union
exists among us, and we are trying to the
best of our knowledge to fill the mission
which has been assigned us.
	At a recent meeting the word “Female,”
in connection with “Society,” was dropped
[new column]
by a unanimous vote as suggested by sister
E. R. Snow. Our finances are as follows:
	Aggregate receipts, $1,360; disbursments,
$460. We have invested eighteen shares of
twenty-five dollars each in the Co-operative
store; three shares in the Stock herd, and
the balance consists in building material,
articles of clothing, etc.
	We hold meetings regularly semi-monthly,
and we intend during the "winter to increase
our means as far as possible for the further-
ance of our building, which we have com-
menced for the benefit of our Society.
Your very interesting paper is highly
appreciated by those who subscribe for it,
and is gaining great favor as it becomes
circulated. We are just sending a list of
new subscribers and we will do all we can
to sustain it.
					Delilah Olson.
				 —
		1st Ward, Salt Lake City,
					December 25th, 1872.
Dear Editor:—
	We will never forget the lessons received
at our last Relief Society meeting. Surely
kind angels ministered unto us, and the
Spirit of God was in our midst. Sympathy
with human suffering is certainly increased
in the hearts of the sisters through these
meetings being held. And is there ought
else that distinguishes man from the beasts
that perish, so much as that eternal principle
of fellow feeling? True, we find sympathy
among the beasts of the field and forest; that
sympathy which exists in nature’s self
between parent and offspring; that quality
than which there is no deeper, higher or
holier attribute, which extends from the
bosom of nature’s God throughout the whole
of His vast creation. But the difference
manifested, to which I refer, is in the finer,
stronger grade of sympathy which reason
awakens, and which the realizing sense of
our own weaknesses, our own liabilities to
err, helps us to exercise for all mankind.
It is this that kindles in our souls the in-
finite desire to see the nations of the earth
repent and turn from their wickedness, that
they may have peace and joy and eternal
life. And it is this which makes us grieve
that in our beautiful city, even here, we
behold the degradation and hopeless condi-
tion of our fallen sisters, whom, were it in
our power, we would raise up to new, bright
life and trust and blessedness. Does it not
belong to us and to the cause we have
espoused, by our sympathies to divide the
sorrows of others and to double their joys?
And sympathy excites to action—we lean
not on faith without works. We would
extend the hand as well as the voice of
charity to all who are in need, and who are
not so blinded by their ignorance as to re-
ject our proffered aid. 
Your visits here have done a great deal of
good. May God bless you in your endeavors
to promote His glorious cause—the cause of.
eternal truth. 
			Truly yours,
				Elizareth Harrison.
				  —
				Salt Lake City, Utah,
						January 8th, 1872.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	The following brief report of our Annual
Meeting, held December 18th, should have
reached you in time for your last issue, but
a multiplicity of causes prevented; yet,
remembering the old maxim of “better late
than never,” I send it now, trusting you
will excuse.
	Several invited guests were present,
among whom were Elder John Taylor and
our bishop, Brother Thomas Taylor, both of
[new column]
whom addressed us in a most pleasing and 
instructive manner.
	Our Quarterly and Yearly Reports were
presented after which a brief summary of
the doings of the Society, since its organiza-
tion, was read.
	We have now been organized five years,
and our esteemed President, Mrs. M. I
Horne, has deemed it proper to give a slight
summary of our labors, etc., during that
time.
	We have had on our books over two hun-
dred names, still our average attendance
has not been above seventy-five.
	We have labored under many disadvan-
tages, and our succes demonstrates what
may be accomplished by the united, indi-
fatigable efforts of a few.
	We have administered to the poor in
every case which has been brought to our
notice, to the extent of our means; and
have furnished suitable burial clothes for
some six or eight persons. We have also
held a Fair which proved quite a success.
We have assisted to erect our building at a
cost of $2,354, which is now owned by the
Relief Society, except about $500. Our
donations have amounted to $2,013:19(1/2), of
which $l,206:73(1/2) have been distributed to
the poor. We have also collected and paid
into the P. E. Fund $264:50, and made and
donated to the Tabernacle twent-six and one
half yards of rug carpet.
	I think we can truly report that our
Society has accomplished much good, and is
still in a flourishing condition.
		Elmina S. Taylor, Secretary.
				—
		American Fork, Jan. 7th, 1873.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	At a recent meeting held in this place,
Mrs. Mary Hindley presiding, a unanimous
vote was taken to dispense with the word
“Female” in connection with the name of
the Society. We had long thought it a
superfluous prefix.
	Our Society has done well so far. The
sick and needy are cared for and supplied
with the necessaries of life. We have a full
share in the Provo woolen factory, two
shares in the Co-operative store, a building
lot, also a lot, five rods by eleven, planted
with mulberry; besides having donated to
the Emigration Fund and other laudable
institutions.
	The sisters still desire to go on in this
great and good work, that they nmay ot only
be blessed themselves but prove a blessing
to all with whom they are connected, in
the building up of the Kingdom of God upon
the earth.
		    Mary Hindley, President. 
E. Eastmond, Secretary.
				—
	The General Retrenchment meettng in
Salt Lake City, was held January 4th, 1873.
Singing; prayer by Counselor Mrs. Zina D.
Young; Singing: Minutes of last meeting
were read by the Secretary, Miss Mary A 
Jenkins, and accepted. Counselor Mrs.
Elizabeth Howard read the Revelation given
to the Prophet Joseph Smith, on Celestial
Marriage. President Mrs. I. Horne wished
the sisters all a happy New Year, and hoped
that the ending of the year might find all
farther advanced in usefulness, wisdom and
goodness than its beginning does. Thought
the Revelation just read was appropriate,
and believed that the law of Celestial mar-
riage might be properly classed as a principle
belonging to physiology. She had not read
the Revelation for some time herself, and
felt benefitted from listening to it; her
memory was strengthened and she felt well
concerning plural marriage. She had lived
in it a good while, and had always got along


first-rate; had no desire to shun any trial
calculated to purify and exalt. Hoped the
present year might prove the brightest and
best of their lives.
	Counselor Mrs. E. Howard said she had
enjoyed the reading of the Revelation.
They should be charitable one towards an-
other, and say and do all in their power to
aid and encourage, as none were exempt
from trial; and seek also to govern them-
selves, for if they gave way to the Tempter,
they would become fretful, grumbling,
miserable creatures. Mothers should speak
plainly to their daughters, teaching them
to shield, honor and maintain their glory,
as true daughters of Zion. If they neglected
seeking to the Lord for guidance, they would
very soon be left to themselves, which was
a fearful fate.
	Mrs. Harriet Cook Young said she felt at
home among her sisters, though circum-
stances had prevented her meeting with them
for some time. On the obedience which
they render to the law of Celestial Marriage
depended, not only their own salvation, but
that of their children, and indeed, of the
whole human family to some extent. Those
who enter not into the Celestial law in this
life, cannot obtain a Celestial glory hereafter,
but will be servants to others, who, through
obedience and faithfulness have become
rulers themselves, and lawful heirs in the
Celestial Kingdom. As mothers and
daughters in Israel, how were they bearing
their portions? They should study the dis-
positions of their children, the circumstances
under which they were begotten, and try to
understand how best to instruct and influence
them.
	Counselor Mrs. B. W. Smith thought
they should be ever watchful and prayerful,
as the records of their lives were probably
of their own keeping; and from them they
would be judged, whether they be good or
evil. It was well to view the bright side
of a picture, and not anticipate trouble.
	Mrs. Howe said she could not speak
scientifically on physiology, but she believed
the law of Celestial marriage to be the only
principle upon which they could be exalted,
or the nations of the earth obtain salvation.
	Counselor Mrs. Z. D. Young said she
hoped that they might accomplish more
good in the present year than they had
ever before done. She heard an outsider
remark that when a Mormon apostatized he
went to nothing, for there was more reason
and sound philosophy in Mormonism than
in all the wisdom of the world beside.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing. Prayer by Counselor Mrs. E. Howard.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 
				——
	We are often asked for a prescription for
preternaturally wakeful persons. The “high
pressure” principle on which many of our
business men work their brains and abuse
their bodies, begets an irritable condition of
the nerves, and a morbid state of mind, very
antagonistic to quiet and refreshing sleep.
Such persons will often go to bed weary
and exhausted, but cannot sleep; or sleep
dreamily and fitfully; or lie awake for hours,
unable to sleep at all. We have tried many
experiments to induce sleep with more or
less success, and have read many recipes
which proved better in theory than in prac-
tice. The very best method we have yet
discovered is that of counting. Breathe
deeply and slowly (without any straining
effort) and, with every expiration, count,
one, two, three, etc., up to a hundred. Some
persons will be asleep before they can count
fifty in this manner. Others will count ten,
twenty, and thirty and then forgot them-
[new column]
selves and cease counting. In such cases
always commence at once. Very few per-
sons can count a hundred and find themselves
awake; but should this happen repeat the 
dose until cured. — "Waverly."
	Brown Bread. —One pint of sour milk,
one-half cup of molasses, one teaspoonful of
soda, and graham flour to make it a little 
stiffer than cake.
	Spoiled Dairy Produce.—Within the
last year we have had occasion to note
several instances where butter, cheese and
meat have been injured or spoiled from no
apparent cause unless by the impurity of the
salt used.
	Loaf Cake Doughnuts.—One cup of
sugar, one-half cup of milk, one cup of yeast,
spices and salt to taste. Stir as stiff as pos-
sible with a spoon and let it rise as bread,
then mould them up and cut, and let rise
an hour, or till they seem light, by the fire.
	Cure for Bone Felon.—The following
is said to be a good remedy for this cause of
suffering: “Take common rock salt, such as
is used for salting down pork or beef, dry it
in an oven, then pound it fine and mix with
spirits of turpentine in equal parts. Put in
a rag and wrap it around the parts affected,
and as it gets dry put on more, and in
twenty-four hours you are cured; the felon
is dead.”
	This led to various experiments, which
have fully proven the presence of sulphur in
much of the salt used throughout this Terri-
tory. Salt may be purified from the sulphur
it contains, by heat;—place the salt in a
dripping-pan, say about an inch or so deep;
place it in an oven under a hot fire and the
sulphur will evaporate, or it may be roasted
out on top of a hot stove or over a fire. No
salt should be used for fresh meat, butter, or-
cheese without testing it in this way, There
has been a loss of many hundreds of pounds
of dairy and butcher produce, the present
season within the range of our knowledge,
where salt both from Salt Lake and the mines
towards the Colorado has been used. One
dairyman east of this place, alone lost nearly
a ton of butter and cheese.—“Utah Pomol-
ogist.”
	Wearing Flannel.—Put it on at once,
winter or summer, nothing better can be
worn next to the skin than a loose red flan-
nel shirt—“loose,” for it has room to move
on the skin, thus causing a titillation which
draws the blood to the surface and keeps it
there; and, when that is the case, no one
can take cold; “red,” for white flannel fulls
up, mats together, and becomes tight, stiff,
heavy, and impervious. Cotton merely ab-
sorbs the moisture from the surface, while
flannel conveys it from the skin and deposits
it in drops on the outside of the shirt, from
which the cotton shirt absorbs it, and by its
nearer exposure to the exterior air it is soon
dried without injury to the body. Having
these properties, red woolen is worn by
sailors even in midsummer of the hottest
countries. Wear a thinner material in sum-
mer.—“Hall's Journal of health.”


[FOR THE EXPONENT.
	LIFE.

	The other day a poor man was thus con-
soling himself on future prospects. “Well”
said he, “I shall, eventually be as well off as
any of them; for, if this life is all—if when
we come to die, that really is the end of our
existence, the richest man can only have a
quiet resting-place beneath the sod, and that
I shall have as well. My bed will be as soft
and smooth as his. But if there is a future
life, there I shall come in for a much hand-


somer share than some of these lucky rascals,
whose wives look down on mine now, will
ever be able to obtain."
	Now, are not the majority of mankind
laboring under grave mistakes in rushing
through life, as though to build themselves 
up regardless of the wants of the rest of the
world, was their chief aim, and the one great
object for which they were created? Why
not make the most and best of life as we go
along, taking things calmly and quietly?
Not to sit down with folded hands, as if to
eat and drink were the only real comforts
we should seek for in life. But in looking
about us, find blessedness in blessing others;
living not for self alone, but for the good we
may do. There is no true satisfaction in
anything else. We may gain riches, power
and influence, but unless they are wisely
made use of for the benefit of mankind, as
well as for our own, they are but sources of
anxiety and care, and the soul starves for
want of pleasurable fruits upon which to
feast. If, as the poor man said, this life is
all, it is wisdom to enjoy it as much as
possible while it lasts, and not spoil all its
sweetness by running wild after the vain
things of earth. But, trusting that there is
a glorious future awaiting the wise and just,
it is worth while to prepare for the reception 
and appreciation of such a hereafter by 
living this life as wisely, justly, and cheer-
fully as we can.
								L.


﻿[For the Exponent.
			DEBT OF GRATITUDE.
	What’s this that romance repeats so often?
A brave, handsome, young fellow, honest as
the day is long, and twice as generous, risks
his own life to save that of a surpassingly
lovely and divinely beautiful maiden; whose
sweet voice and sweeter disposition at once
win the ardent, deep and deathless devotion
of her gallant preserver. Gratitude, and a
sudden reciprocity of hitherto unawakened
affections, pure as the “beautiful snow,”
which was going to bury her in a terrific
slide, had not our hero interfered; or, per-
haps mighty and ceaseless as the huge
stream of water in which she must have been
drowned but for his timely approach and
adventurous dexterity in rescuing her,
makes her his own forever. But I have
something else to say about causes for grati-
tude. What great thing is it, after all, for
one person to save the life of another? That
might cost but the exertion of a moment,
and is an act which common respect for
humanity would prompt any individual to
perform. A wretch may render services in
saving the life of an innocent child; and I
admit for the good he does he should be
thanked and rewarded. But still that isn’t
anything like stopping at home, doing the
work and letting some one else go to a
Christmas and New Year’s jollification.
Should it awaken half the gratitude, since it
calls not for half the sacrifice? Then, there
are other tokens of lasting love and generous
fidelity to be brought in. Think of a
family’s going without butter for a week, for
the sake of sparing to a favored one, the
new milk wanted for two days. Should
such things be forgotten? Get out with
your fated maidens and life preserving
heroes! For my part, I’d rather spend one
happy, happy week of holidays, than to risk
my life a dozen times for the sake of having
it saved; and am really more grateful to my
dear, good friends whose friendship proves
itself continuously, than I ever could be for
one deed of humanity.
							Frank.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

 				LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers Woman's Exponent,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

	SALT LAKE CITY, JANUARY 15, 1873.


﻿SPLINTERS.

	An American lady in Rome has a school
of two hundred pupils......£400 has been
contributed to the sufferers from the late in-
undations in Italy, by Queen Victoria......
The combined fortunes of Horace Greeley’s
daughters is estimated at $100,000.....The
Queen of Holland is said to be a good
French schollar, a successful writer, a hater
of the Germans, and a firm supporter of the
Bonapartes......A railroad was voted against
by the people of Jasper county, Mississippi,
lest the deer should be frightened away by
the locomotive......Stokes’ counsel tried to
prove that Fisk shot and would have stab-
bed himself, but was prevented from the
latter by the presence of Irwin.......Salem,
Oregon, has the measles, and prospects of a
new woolen factory......About a third of a
percussion cap would be anything but
an agreeable visitant in the eye, as a boy at
Brighton, Sacramento, can testify since
last Christmas morning......General Schenck
and his daughter are in Paris.........The
question of flogging in public schools is being
agitated in England, and the wretched system
is defended by some of the learned gentle-
men as a promotion of dicipline......Miss
Swayze is lecturing on “Free Hate.”.......
Paymaster Hodge, the army defaulter, has
been pardoned by President Grant.....One
of the leading bankers in Munich is a lady,
Miss Adele Spitzides....The “Temperance
Daughters” of Philadelphia have $18,000 in
the Treasury'......‘The Gossip,” a new humor-
ous London paper, will be edited by W. H.
Garrett......A lady pedestrian is said to be
preparing for a long western walk, from
Long Island to Omaha......Gladstone, it is
rumored is about to honor journalism, by
confering a baronetcy upon one of the pro-
prietors of the “Daily Telegraph,”......Gail
Hamilton is spending the winter at Wash-
ington, with Speaker Blaine’s family......
President Juarez of Mexico, left a minute
account of all sums of money receive
him from his elevation to the Presidency
......Mrs. Livermore lectures on “What
shall we do with our daughters.”......A new
nickle coinage is to be adorned with the
portrait of the late Thaddeus Stevens.....
“The Ladies Sociable,” is the name of a
society lately formed in Wyoming.......
Governor English, of Connect
icut, gives
$10,000 worth of law books to the library of
the New Haven Bar.......Horace Greeley is
not likely to be soon forgotten, as the litiga-
tion relative to his will has not the
appearance of an early settlement..........
The rivers in the valley of the Po, are again
rising and fresh inundations are threatened
.......Two brothers by the name of Locke,
one at Gould Station, near Swedesboro, the
other at Camden, both died the same morn-
ing, December22d......The internal revenue
receipts since July 1st have been $61,518,922.
......The Crown Prince Humbolt was
thrown from his carriage, while riding, in
Rome, a few days since, and sustained some
slight injuries. Had he been the heir ap-
parent to a royal peasant, not a word
would have been said about it.......They
stew cherries with much juice, in Berlin,
and make a dish called cherry-soup......Darwin
has published a new book, entiled “The Ex-
pressions of the Emotions in man and ani-
mals.”.......A steamer which recently arrived
at New York, had, among its passengers, a
sixteen-foot anaconda, a five-foot gorilla,
and a, Bengal tiger......Joaquin Miller has
completed his poem of the “Isles of the
Amazon.".....Three California Archbishops
have issued a bill prohibiting the intermar-
riage of Catholics and Protestants........
Having successfully demonstrated that he
can live on an average of fifty-fonr cents a
week.......Dr. Dio Lewis has started a news-
paper......The death of the popular English
poetess, Eliza Cook, which English papers
have been chronicling of late, we are happy
to record was a mistake......Paris newsboys
are to be uniformed in dark blue clothes and
scarlet cape.


﻿UTAH AND THE MORMONS.

	For a couple of weeks past we have scarcely
opened a newspaper that had not something to
say about Utah, the Mormons, polygamy, and
so on; some calling for stern, repressive legisla-
tion by Congress, against the “enormities of
the Mormons,” and others advocating a more
charitable and humane policy.
	Utah is unpopular with a certain class, and
they indulge in prolonged pharisaic howls
against the people who built up this Territory,
until the masses, who kuow nothing of the
actual state of affairs in Utah, are led to believe
that the “Mormons” are a horrible people
whom it would be doing God’s service to annhi-
latc, destroy, kill off, or in some way put them
out of existence to prevent them from galling
a sanctimonious but corrupt set of Aminidab
Sleeks, who profess morality, yet whose hypoc-
risy is glaringly exposed by the moral,
industrious and temperate habits of the Latter-
day Saints.
	The great outcry is raised against polygamy,
stigmatized as the sole remaining relic of bar-
barism which afflicts or disgraces the country.
Oh great and glorious country! unequalled
people who have no fouler stain upon their 
national escutcheon than tins, and it confined 
to a few valleys in the heart of the continent!
What a proud spectacle does that land present
where nothing but the purest chastity can be
found; where no places devoted to vice exists
in its great cities or smaller towns; where civil-
ization has elevated the people until they have
gained the complete mastery over every passion
and appetite; and where there is nothing to
disturb the serenity of their souls but the faith
of a single and not very numerous community;
that faith, too, inculcating the strictest chastity,
and holding virtue as a pearl above price, while
contending that plural marriages are consonant
with morality, physiology, and the revealed
will of the Almighty as expressed in the Scrip-
tures! But it may be that those who bestir
themselves so actively in this matter really
discard every principle and practice of the patri-
archal times, called by them “the age of
barbarism.” Honor and honesty were con-
sidered worthy the respect of all in those
barbaric times, and they are evidently but
lightly regarded now. Men were temperate
then and lived to a good old age; now they
boast of their intemperance, and hurry to
premature graves. People then were simple in
their tastes, moderate in their habits, and easely
satisfied. Now, wealth is eagerly sought after
to minister to a thousand idle fancies, or worse
still, to gratify appetites that revel in debauch-
ery. Honesty, industry, temperance and frugal
habits being relics of barbarism, the present
"civilized" age, it would appear, desires to be
rid of them, lest they, too, with that other bar-
baric practice of plural marriage, should stain
the proud escutcheon of progress which flaunts
so loftily on the breeze inscribed "Excelseor,"
	An apostle of old strongly inculcated charity
as the greatest of the virtues, and a proverb of
less ancient date says charity should begin at
home. We recommend to these very pious
people throughout the country, who are so
strongly exercised over the condition of Utah,
to open their eyes and look around them, and
see what a vast field there is, within sight of
their very doors, for the philanthropist, the re-
former and the man or woman of real charity
to labor in. And we can assure those at a dis-
tance, that the men in Utah who make the
loudest outcry against the immorality of the
"Mormons," are themselves the most immoral
men in the country, and openly boast that they
only use this cry as a means of stirring up pre-
judice to enable them to accomplish designs
which it were flattery to characterize as base.


﻿WORK.

	In the design of mortal existence, whatever
else might have been contemplated, we,
evidently were intended to work. No matter
what we are, or how situated, there is no get-
ting around the one inevitable fact that we must
labor, if we would be any thing of ourselves
in and to the world. The wives of farmers,
who are believed by some of our industrious
cityladies to have less care and responsibilities
upon them than they could possibly have
living in the city and striving to “keep up ap-
pearances,’ will always assert that they have 
more to do than they know how to manage,
and that it seems as though no one else could
be so pressed with work; cooking, perhaps, for
a half a dozen or a dozen, with eight or ten cows
to milk, pigs and chickens to feed, churning,
washing and ironing to do and the making and
mending of clothes for the family. Is not all
this enough to keep the country woman busy?
Is it any marvel that she finds but little time
for reflection or improvement of mind? But if
she is a young wife and mother, with but one
child, and property around her accordingly, it
is the same; she will always find something to
busy herself about, something that must be
done. True it is that we weary, and that pain
is produced by toil in a majority of cases; yet
we must work. The actual scholar, to acquire
the vast amount of intellectual power which is
striven for with quite as much zeal as money
seekers employ in hunting after gold, must
labor most assiduously in discipling the
mental faculties and keeping them in hourly
use. And it is certain that no treasure can be
so much enjoyed as that which is fairely earned,
and that no good thing is earned without exer-
tion; while the happiest remedy there is for the
sorrows and ills of life, is generous and wise em-
ployment in which they are forgotten.


﻿EXITS.

	The record of the recent past bears off its page
the names of an unusually large number of dis-
tinguished characters, who have retired behind
the scenes on the grand stage of mortal exist-
ence. The spectacle is one in which almost a
generation of prominent actors seem to have
been represented as passing away, and their
histories alone remain, to remind us that “we
may make our lives sublime.” Eighteen hun- 
dred and seventy-three begins its round of noble 
exits with that of the ex-emperor Louis
Napoleon, who died in exile at Chiselhurst, 
England, on the morning of Thursday, 9th inst.


The career of this man has been so interwoven
with the history of Europe for the last twenty
years, that those who have a knowledge of the
one cannot be ignorant of the other; for he
shaped for years the policy that governed that
continent. His life was an eventful one, full of
light and shade; and in elevation as in exile he
found his truest friend in a woman, she who
shared his imperial splendor and knelt by his
dying bed at Chiselhurst, the empress Eugiene.
But death, when it comes, strikes alike the
highest and the lowliest; and in the tomb,
whether it be a mighty mausoleum or an
humble grave, emperor and peasant are but
equal remnants of mortality.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE CHANGE OF NAME.

	The Relief Societies of the following named
settlements have sent us reports containing
accounts of their properly renouncing the prefix
“Female” in connection with the name of the
Society: Smithfleld, Farmington, Ogden, Wil-
lard City, Brigham City, Kamas Prairie,
Alpine City, Santaquin, Salem, Nephi, Big
Cottonwood, 1st Ward In Provo City, Bounti-
ful, Ephraim, Wanship, Logan, Cedar City,
Mendon, Heber City, Fillmore, Beaver, and
American Fork—twenty-two. And the newly
organized branch at Riverdale, which takes the
correct term without making use of the super-
fluous word, makes the number twenty-three.
But these do not constitute a majority of the
branch Societies throughout the Territory,
Send on your minutes, Secretaries; we are
anxious to leave the “F” off the heading of the
Society reports, but cannot do so legally while
only a minority of those concerned have sanc
tioned the proceeding.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE SABBATH School entertainment, referred
to in our issue of January 1st, was given in the
Thirteenth instead of the Fourteenth Ward in
this city. The figure in the notice was a typo-
graphical error.
	A NUMBER of those who subscribed for the
EXPONENT with its first issue, for six months,
have not renewed their subscriptions, although
the paper is now in its eight month since
started. Will they please renew at once, or
notify us that they wish their papers stopped?
	A NEW Associate Justice for Utah, in the
person of Wm. W. Mitchell, has been appointed
in place of Judge Strickland, who presided over
the first judicial district, holding court in
Provo. Judge Mitchell must be a very poor
specimen of a just judge if he is not an improve-
ment on the man he succeeds.
	NEWS OF our friends, the Palestine party,
come almost daily to hand, and only agreeable
accounts of good health and enjoyable seasons
have been yet received. They were at Nice on
Christmas day, and, doubtless, had a nice time;
on New Year’s day they reached Milan, and if
their expectations have been so far successful,
they are to-day at Pisa.
	WE ACKNOWLEDGE the receipt of a pleasant
invitation to attend a Relief Society Party of
the First Ward, held in the neat, new brick
building of that Ward, which, although not
yet completed is so far advanced as to be an
agreeable place of entertainment for an even-
ing’s enjoyment. We understand that the
proceeds are to be devoted to the finishing of
the meeting house, which is certainly credit-
able, and we wish the sisters much success in
the undertaking.
	THE PRESENT winter, so far, has been an un-
usual one, for the extreme and sometimes
sudden changes from frost to rain, and from


intense cold to mildness of atmosphere. As a 
result colds, catarrhs, bronchial affections and
pneumonia have been prevalent, and a number
have died of the last-named disease. Parents
should be especially careful of their children,
in such sudden changes of weather, and endeavor
to so arrange their clothing that the body will
be kept, as nearly as possible, at an even tem-
perature.


﻿CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.

			London, Nov. 25, 1872.

MY DEAR LULA:—
	In my last, I left you at Central Park in
New York. Early next morning, (5th of
Nov.,) in company of brother Feramorz Lit-
tle, sister Little, Clara L. and her little
brother Frank—also brother Spencer Claw-
son, I took the cars for West Point where
we arrived at 10 a. m., after crossing the
beautiful Hudson river on a steam ferry
boat.
	West Point is a delightful point. The
natural scenery is variegated and imposing.
Having one hour to while away before we
could have an interview with the object of
our visit, Mr. Willard Young, we strolled
around the premises, viewing the objects of
interest, and some things, which to us,
promoters of peace, were not particularly
interesting. Great numbers of cannon, of
various forms and sizes were to be seen in
different places,—some from Mexico, others
from the Crimea, preserved as specimens;
also a portion of the ponderous iron chain
which the Americans stretched across the
Hudson, in the Revolutionary War, to im-
pede the British ships. I admired the
beautiful green area, with its fine shade
trees, surrounded by rugged hills; on the
top of the highest, in the distance, Putnam’s
Fort is to be seen, which is said to remain
precisely as the veteran General, whose
name it bears, built, and left it. The next
hour was very pleasantly spent in “tete a
tete” with the young military student,
whom we found in good health and spirits,
and returned to New York at 4 p. m.
	That evening Mr. Richardson and lady
called on us—he has been a traveler in Pales-
tine and gave us much interesting informa-
tion respecting it. Before we left New
York, the number in the hotel, from Utah,
amounted to twenty.
	On the morning of the 6th we went on
board the steamer Minnesota and through
the kindness of brother W. C. Staines, were
very comfortably quartered, and soon
launched forth into the Hudson and from
thence into the broad ocean.
	I saw the ocean for the first time, and was
in nothing so disappointed as its color,
which is, when calm, dark, very dark, yes,
positively black, and to me appeared like a
mass of lava. I wanted to look at it poetic-
ally, and watched intently for “blue waves,”
or even “green waves,” but to no purpose
except the waters were stirred, then, be-
neath the white foam the blue, and more
particularly the green were observable. I
was but little sea sick, and, although our
passage was rough, I rather enjoyed it. It
was raining when we arrived in Liverpool
on the morning of the 19th. The North-
western Hotel, where we stopped, is a finely
constructed building, with many accommo-
dations, but is conducted altogether too
ceremoniously to consult convenience and
comfort. We staid two days in the dense,
interminable fog of Liverpool, where they
have more light by night from gas than the
sun affords them by day.
	The first day I spent in writing, with a very
agreeable and interesting visit to the sanc-
tum of President Carrington; on the second,
a very severe cold prevented my visiting
the Workhouse as I had anticipated—a sketch
of which my brother Lorenzo has written to
the Deseret News.
	We left Liverpool for London by train, at 9 a.
m. and arrived at 2 p.m.—two hundred and
three miles. The cars in England, instead of
being open from end to end and the seats all
in one view, as in America, are partitioned
into boxes containing two seats, the first
class seating six persons, three on each seat,
face to face, and the second class, eight—
four on each seat. These boxes open only
on the outside, so that there is no communi-
cation between the different sections. Here
the distances are so short compared with
those of America that sleeping cars are not
in use.
			Yours, with love to all,
							E. R. Snow.


WOMAN’S AGENCY.
			—
	A temperate life and a prayerful heart
produce a fruitful mind, well stored with
useful knowledge. There has been a great
deal said and written concerning woman’s
rights. It is a subject that I feel interested in,
enough so to attempt to express some of my
views in relation to it, through the columns
of the EXPONENT. There is one fact that I
wish to prove, by reference to my own ex-
perience, having been eighteen  years a
“Mormon.” When I first heard a “Mor-
mon” missionary preach, I was twenty-eight
years of age; and I believed every word he
said. Why? Because I believed the Bible,
and he did not preach anything but what
could be proved from the sacred book. Now,
what was I to do? I had a husband, father
and brothers, all intelligent, honorable
men. Was it my duty to ask them if the
Gospel was true, and whether I must obey
it or not? Or had God given me my own
agency, to think and act in such matters for
myself? My father was a deist, and that
was the tradition under which I was
brought up. The “Mormon” Elder told the
people if they believed and obeyed the
requirements of the Gospel, they should
know of the doctrine, whether it was of God
or of man; and that the signs followed the
believers as in ancient times. Well, I
thought if God is the same yesterday, to-
day and forever, I will go to Him on my
bended knees and ask him if he has revealed
Himself from the Heavens and sent forth
messengers to gather His Elect from the
four quarters of the earth. I covenanted
with the Lord to be a faithful witness to
this testimony, provided He gave it to me
as I had read of its being given on the day
of Pentecost. I would bear testimony to all
the world that I received it in answer to my
prayer, leaving no room for doubt. I would
like to fulfill that promise to the Lord. And
if any person wishes to know why I am here
in Salt Lake City, living in polygamy, I
think this is sufficient reason; and my
prayer is that I never may live to be
ashamed of this testimony, for it is the
testimony of Jesus. And it is this that has
placed me in the position I occupy to-day.
All the men in Christendom could never
have made me submit to live with a man
that had more than one wife, had I not be-
lieved and become convinced that God
approved it, as much now as He did when
Jacob had Rachel and Leah. But to say
nothing of revelation, the system of plurality
of wives is far superior to that practiced by
the world. I have more to say of woman’s
agency.
							W. E.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿EMPTY.
			    —
Your cozy crib is in the corner yet;
	I sit and watch it, just as day is dead; 
You cannot press again, my vanished pet.
	Its pillow with your drowsy golden head.

You cannot reach plump arms to get my kiss,
	Or dart about with rosy naked feet,
Babbling soft syllables of that and this,
	A tiny nightgowned fairy, blithe and sweet.

Once and for all you have lain down to rest,
	Not to rise up because of birds or beams,—
Once and for all, wi h white flowers on your breast,
To slumber coldy and to dream no dreams.]

Empty the home where, frolicsome and fair,
	Your precious presence made so bright a part;
Empty your little crib, your clothes, your chair,
	But emptiest of all your mother’s heart!
						[“Atlantic Monthly."


﻿WOMAN’S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:—
	Believing that all who have been blessed
with the light of truth, with a knowledge of
the Gospel of Christ as restored to the earth
in this generation, by the power of God,
through His servant Joseph, should take
active and earnest part in seeking to build
up and establish the Kingdom of Righteous-
ness, I wish to offer a few words to my
sisters through the columns of your paper.
I would ask why we are here in these
valleys, we who have left homes and friends
in other lands, where we could have lived
and labored as our forefathers did before us,
without the trouble, expense and fatigue of
emigrating to Utah? The answer is trite,
but nevertheless true, with many of us; we
came here for the purpose of serving God.
And what is it to serve Him as He requires?
As we understand it, it is to “live by every
word which proceedeth from His mouth.”
	Among the many commandments which
He has given for the instruction and salva-
tion of His people, there are numerous
instances where we are directed to dili-
gence and warned against slothfulness. The
prophet Ezekiel reckoned idleness one of
the three great sins of Sodom. “Behold 
this was the iniquity of thy sister Sodom:
pride, fullness of bread, and abundance of
idleness was - in her.” The Creator has so
constituted His children that they cannot be 
happy and idle at the same time. The most
irksome task which can be imposed on man
is that of doing nothing; while not alone in
the possession lies the charm of that which
is valuable, but the chief delight is in honest
acquirement. “Things won are done—joy’s
soul lies in the doing.” There is labor for
the head as well as the hands. and it is noble
and God-like to exercise and improve the
mental gifts with which we have been blest,
to cultivate our intellectual, immortal parts,
and to increase the power of thought, and
consequent individuality, as well as to bring
theories into practice, and work with our
hands. Permit me to say that I think if many
of our ladies would do a little more brain
work of the right kind, instead of using so
freely those frivolities which are ever pre-
sent in the idle mind, and are brought forth
without exertion, it would be of great worth
to themselves and also to the community.
				Respectfully, 		NORA.


﻿YOUNG ladies of this city, going home
from Sabbath School, on the Sunday
between Christmas and New Year’s, were
heard singing a very appropriate parody
on “Beautiful Snow,” commencing with “O!
the mud, the tractable mud! Filling the
streets like a halcyon flood! Splashing to
cover a fair lady’s feet; Slopping about o’er
the people you meet. Fresh as an idea nip-
ped in the bud—There’s nothing so real as
the tractable mud!”


FLOWERS.
					—
	The ties of friendship are stronger and
more certain than those of kindred.
	Rejoice in having done well, but leave
others to tell of it; self praise spoils the
effects of a generous and noble action.
	Real modesty and affectation are so
different in their natures, that while one is
commendable the other is contemptible.
	There is nothing purer than honesty—
nothing warmer than love—nothing richer
than wisdom—nothing brighter than virtue
—and nothing more steadfast than faith.
These united in one mind, form the purest,
sweetest, warmest, brightest, and most
steadfast happiness.
	You may become what you will, if you
only work for it with all the powers God has
given you. Choose then, some worthy am-
bition. Do not let it be riches or honor
among men, or anything the Lord does not
esteem. Choose some great, noble purpose
on which you can ask His blessing. Then
work for it with all your might, and you
will not fail of the victory.
	Many people imagine that courage is
confined to the field of battle. There could
be no greater mistake. Even contentions
with men, unavoidable contentions, are not
by any means limited to public battle-fields.
And there are other struggles in private life
—struggles with adverse circumstances—
struggles, it may be, with habits of appetites
or passions—all of which require as much
courage, and more of perseverance, than the
brief, exciting encounter of battle.
	What spectacle more pleasing does the
earth afford than a happy woman, contented:
in her sphere, ready at all times to benefit
her little world by her exertions, and trans-
forming the briars and thorns of life into
roses of Paradise by the magic of her
touch? There are those who are thus happy
because they cannot help it; no misfortunes
dampen their sweet smiles, and they diffuse
a cheerful glow around them, as they pursue
the even tenor of their way. They have
the secret of contentment, whose value is
above the pilosopher’s stone; for without
seeking the baser exchange of gold which
may buy some sort of pleasure, they convert
everything they touch into joy. What
their condition is makes no difference. They
may be rich or poor, high or low, admired
or forsaken by the fickle world; but the
sparkling fountain bubbles up in their hearts
and makes them radiantly beautiful.
	Life bears us on like a stream of a mighty
river. Our boat glides down the harrow
channel through the playful murmurs of the
little brook and the winding of the grassy
borders. The trees shed their blossoms
over our young heads; the flowers on the
brink seem to offer themselves to our young
hands; we are happy in hope, and grasp
eagerly at the beauties around us; but the
stream hurries on, and still our hands
are empty. Our course in youth and man-
hood is along a deeper and wider flood, amid
objects more striking and mahificent. We
are animated at the moving picture of enjoy-
ment and industry passing around us—are
excited at some short-lived disappointment.
The stream bears us on, and our joys and
griefs are left behind us. We may be ship-
wrecked—we cannot be delayed; whether
rough or smooth, the river hastens to its home,
till the roar of the ocean is in our ears, and
the tossing of the waves beneath our feet,
and land lessens from our eyes, and the floods
are lifted up around us, and we take our leave
of earth and its inhabitants, until of our
farther voyage there is no witness save the
Infinite and the Eternal.


THE SEX.

	Anna Dickinson lectures on “Things
Hoped For.”
	Laura Ream is candidate for the office of 
State Librarian of Indiana.
	A daughter of the Rothschilds is about
to be married to a poor man, and this poor
man is a Christian.
	The married ladies of Hannibal, Missouri
have formed a “Come Home Husband Club.”
It is about four feet long and has a brush at
the end of it.
	Miss Sarah W. Barton, an American girl,
now studying music in Florence, is to be
prima donna of opera in Warsaw, Poland, the
coming winter.
	Miss Hotchkiss sensibly thinks it high
time that women should try to invent some
graceful and becoming style of dress which
would be consistent with health and free-
dom.
	Miss Mary Thurman; eldest daughter of
the Ohio Senator, is aoon to be married to a
naval officer named Herrman, which goes
to show that their domestic differences will
be over their T.
	Miss Rhoda Bou ghton, the author o
“Goodbye, Sweetheart,” etc., (says a corres-
pondent,) is young, pretty, fascinating, and
rather wild. She is the eldest daughter of
au English clergyman, and at present resid-
ing with an uncle in Devonshire, England.
“Cometh up as a Flower.” was written by
her when only sixteen.
	Miss Olive Risley Seward will hereafter
make her home at Fredonia with her father,
H. A. Risley, The old homestead has been
handsomely fitted up, where with the hand-
some income of fifty thousand dollars be-
queathed to her by Seward, she can live in
elegant retirement—if she has the notion to
live that way.
	The Queen of England has reversed the
gallantry of Sir Walter Raleigh, who spread
his rich plush coat out for his sovereign to
tread upon. The Duke of Sutherland is
having a shaft sunk in his estate to improve
some mines, and being told of these opera-
tions while there, the Queen expressed a de-
sire to see them. The Duke escorted her
thither, and while her Majesty was standing
on the bank, inspecting the work, it com-
menced to rain. A few yards off one of the
men was sawing timber for the shaft, and,
heedless of the rain, continued his work
without a coat. Presently he was surprised
to receive a light touch, and on looking up
perceived the Duke, who laid a costly rug,
over his shoulders, at the same time ex-
claiming. “The Queen requested me to
present you with her own rug, you may
keep and wear it.”
	A Brussels correspondent says that re- 
cently a poor crippled girl, to save her sister
from a week’s imprisonment, to which
she had been condemned for some slight
offence, herself confessed the crime, and
went there instead of the offender. The
fraud was detected after she had suffered-
the punishment, and when brought before
the judge she was sentenced to three months
imprisonment, which, however, she will
now escape. Her answer to the question
what induced her to substitute herself for
her sister was, that being a cripple, she
could not sustain her aged mother, which,
her sister had done for a long time, “and,
therefore,” she added, “it was better for me
to go to prison and let her be free.” A sub-
scription has been started for the girl, and
much has been subscribed to aid her and the
family of so devoted a heroine.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿[Written for the Exponent.
 			MY FRIEND.
				—
	She is not at all like other people; she is
her own singular, primitive self. Every
person has peculiarities sacred to the one
and possessed by no other; but her original-
ities are unprecedented, and entirely her
own. Her good sense is a safe and sure
backing for her in all circumstances. She
always dresses in good style but with such
superior taste that whatever she puts on is
becoming to her. Nothing is ever new to
her; she seems to have a presentiment of
occurrences before they take place, to antici-
pate and be prepared for just what transpires,
and consequently to understand the precise
method of undertaking and managing any-
thing that comes along. She knows too
much to be dull and miserable, and can
make herself at home, at ease, and agreeable
wherever she may be placed. And yet,
withal, she entertains an intense longing to
pass from this life into one of higher intelli-
gence, where the mind may have broader
scope and freer access to the inexhaustable
fountains of pure and eternal knowledge.
She seems to have drawn forth so much of
the finer grade of excellence which belongs
to earthly substances, that her mind now
reaches forward, grasping at something
beyond, which, while clogged with this
mortal coil, it cannot fully comprehend. It
is not in the daily routine of busy, careless
life that the real sublimity and grandeur of
her strangely beautiful intellectual powers
are clearly and unmistakably visible, though
in common conversation she expresses much;
and much in her expressive language which
would be self conceit and egotism in another,
portrays only self knowledge and absolute
strength of character in her. She is indeed,
a strange composition, wonderfully endowed.
But to understand what she is, one must
become familiar with her ways, intimate
with herself, and hear her in a private ram-
ble, back over some of the quiet windings,
twistings and twinings of the threads of her
past life. Then her singularities are plain
to be observed and comprehended. She
may be still an anomaly, but it is clearly ap-
parent why; and the sympathies which her
soul stirring words awaken are ever plea-
sant and intelligent, though of a strangely
solemn and dignified nature.
								 G.


﻿AN AFFECTING INCIDENT.
			   —
	An affecting incident of the sufferings,
of working women rendered houseless and
penniless by the Boston fire, is told thus:
	During the first week after the fire a very
pretty young girl, evidently not far from
twenty, came shyly in and took a seat away
from the crowd. She was quite noticeable,
both from her face and manner and her
dress, which, although it was only black
alpaca, was worn with a genuine lady-like
style and daintiness; everything about her
was scrupulously neat, and there was an air
of refinement about her that told of better
surroundings and different modes of life
from most of the women there assembled. A
member of the committee, wondering at
her appearance, went to her and accosted her
rather brusquely:
	“Well, what are you here for?”
	A painful flush rose quickly to the sensi-
tive face, and she replied:	
	“I heard—some one told me,—that all who
needed temporary assistance were to apply
here.”
	“Well,” was the answer, “why do you
come? you don’t look as though you needed


anything, you are dressed well enough,
and—”
	But the girl waited for no more. She
sprang to her feet, the tears streaming from
her eyes, her face crimsoned with shame,
and turned towards the door. Several ladies
who had been watching the scene, and who
appreciated the situation, instantly were at
her side. One of them led her to a seat,
and putting motherly arms around her,
soothed her as she would a grieved child.
Then came the question, quick and sympa-
thetic:
	“What is it, my dear? What can we do
for you?”
	Through the sobs came the answer:—
	“I never had to ask for help before, and I
had to struggle so hard with myself before I
could come this morning. I lost my place
by the fire, but I am to have another soon,
but, I must live until then. I cannot stay
in my boarding-place unless I pay my board
every week, and there is no place for me to
go, and I don’t know what I shall do.”
	“How much do you require?”
	The sum was told, and little enough it
was; in an instant it was in her hand, with
an addition beside from the pocket of her
new-found friend: and she went away happy
and safe. This is but one of the incidents
of a like character that are constantly occur-
ring, giving these women such insight as
they never had before into the lives of that
large class of their sex, of whom Henry
Ward Beecher once said: “There is only a
cambric needle between them and hell.”
This phase of poverty is a new revelation to
them, and they are learning to meet it
properly, and to feel a tender pity for those
who strive to hide it, only revealing the
truth at last when it becomes a bitter neces-
sity. That they did not understand it at
first is not but the fault of the persons them-
selves as the effect of their education. There
are traditional manners of managing the
poor that they quickly found were not prac-
tical, and they learned the ways fast as
possible, doing what they did with their
whole hearts if their tongues and fingers did
bungle a little- at first—“Pioneer.”


﻿WOMAN LOAFERS.
			—
	The following, furnished by a correspon-
dent of the Cincinnati “Commercial” is good
enough to read and reflect upon. Will some
of our young ladies who are accustoming
 hemselves to “look down on labor” give
the subject a little consideration?
	“Sometimes it seems to me that the whole
social life of woman is based upon two ideas
—aping and envy. The woman who lives in
two little back rooms up stairs, apes and en-
vies the woman with the large house, and
the woman with a large house is in a steady
fever of fear and fretting lest she be not
recognized by the woman with the stone
front house and a circus chariot, with a clown
dressed up in buttons. No matter how high
up a woman climbs upon the social ladder,
there is always still some higher hight
which she can’t scale, some other over her
head who looks down upon her, and gives
her days and nights of jealousy and head-
ache. Not a blessed woman of them all is
happy and content in the soil wherein fate
has planted her, but must needs spend her
time and strength in frantic efforts to pull
herself up by the roots and transplant her-
self somewhere else. The snobs who ride
circus chariots curl up their noses at the
schoolmistresses, the schoolmistresses look
down from their infinite hights upon the
clerks and dressmakers, and the clerks and
dressmakers in turn pay it off with interest


upon the kitchen girls. What nonsense,
what tom-foolery it all is! Is a schoolmis-
tress any better or higher than a washer-
woman? Not a bit. And are not school-
mistresses and washerwomen both infinitely
better and higher up than the lady loafer,
the Steve Moores of the female sex, in short?
Yea, verily.
	Women are the most-absurd creatures, all
owing to the silly fancy that it is lady-like
to be a loafer. A little time ago one of my
small busy housekeeper friends asked a lady
loafer caller what had become of her sister.
	“She goes down town every day, now,”
said the lady loafer, hesitatingly. 
	“Is she at work?” inquired the house-
keeper.
	“Well, ye—yes,” said the lady loafer, still
more hesitatingly.
	“What does she do?” inquired my friend.
	The lady loafer stammered and backed off
painfully two or three times, and finally
made a clean breast of it, thusly:
	“She—she—she has charge of the trim-
mings in a—dressmaking establishment.
She has nothing to do with the dressmaking.
She has charge of the trimmings. It’s not
a common dressmaking establishment. It’s
one of the fashionable dressmakers. She
won’t make a dress for a poor person.”
	“Oh, glory! Fan me with a cabbage
leaf!" quoth my friend, the small busy house-
keeper.
	The idea of a body’s dressmaker setting
herself to be “highstocracy.” The laurels of
the lady loafers in the circus chariots are
quite withered after that. And yet, why
not a dressmaker? Isn’t money made at
dressmaking quite as aristocratic as money
made with pork, whisky, hides, soap, tallow
and tobacco? Those are the material foun-
dations upon which our American nobility
found their airy castles of aristocracy, you
know, and I’m sure dressmaking is quite as
high and honorable as any of them.


﻿Gentle oxen, suitable for hauling a
basket phaeton about town, are in request
among the ladies of Titusville. 
	A New-fashioned square dance is called
the Pyramid, and being similar to the quad-
rille, is likely to become quite as popular.
	A pair of ladies’ rubber overshoes were
lately found in the stomach of an ox at
Orange, Vt. What became of the lady is
not known.
	“I’ve always heard the world was round
and now I know it,” were Seward’s first
words to a concourse of friends who welcomed
him to Auburn after his circumnavigation
of the globe.	
	“Six feet in his boots!” exclaimed Mrs.
Beeswax; “what will the imprudence of this
world come to, I wonder? Why, they
might as well tell me the man had six heads
in his hat.”
	Dickens says: “I have known vast quan-
tities of nonsense talked about bad men not
looking you in the face. Don’t trust to that
conventional idea. Dishonesty will stare you
out of countenance any day in the week, if
there is anything to be got by it.
	Miss Knight, of Boston, has invented a
machine for making paper bags, and is hav-
ing a number of them manufactured at
Chicopee under her own supervision. The
workmen employed were at first skeptical
as to her mechanical ability, but she cured
them of this by going daily and working
among them, detecting mistakes and im-
proving plans with a keener eye than any
man in the works. Her invention is said to
be an invaluable one, and she will make a
fortune by it.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


As a colored boy was following a whistle
of great volume he met an inebriated individ-
ual, who, taking umbrage at the boy’s
musical jollity, gave him a round buffet on
the side of the head. Unluckily for him,
however, the liquor he was carrying made
him top heavy and he was thrown from his
feet by the momentum acquired in deliver-
ing the blow. The boy, half crying, took
advantage of the opportunity and repaid in
kicks the cuff he had received, taking care,
however, to get out of the way before his
opponent regained his feet.
	In his recent talk with Gambetta, Senator
Sumner lamented as a great defect of France
the want of sincere and rational religion,
and expressed his opinion that one of the
most harmful things ever said by a great
man in a position to influence his contem-
poraries and posterity was the famous “mot”
of Henry IV., “Paris vaut bein une messe;”
the free translation of which is that it is well
worth while to change one’s religion and
become a Catholic instead of a Protestant in
order to be master of Paris. The profound
immorality of such skepticism, coming from
a king reputed one of the best that ever
reigned, had, in Sumner’s opinion, struck
deep root in France, and produced immense
evil by its example.
	When I was a boy, says a distinguished
man, my first saving of ten cent pieces,
earned by Saturday afternoon work—for
school kept half a day on Saturday.then—
were expended in buying a heifer calf.
Then I worked on, and paid my father a cer-
tain sum each month for keeping. When
the calf was one year old I traded it for two
steer calves, and now had to put in good and
strong to pay for their keeping; but I
occupied all my spare time in teaching these
calves to work in the yoke, and at one year
old they would gee and haw as well as
old oxen, and my father paid me for their 
use in leading the team for breaking his two
three-year-olds. Again, I had a piece of
ground each year, after I was fourteen, that
I could plant and work on shares; and if I
wanted help, why I had to give two days of
my time to the hired man’s one day. I grew
just what my fancy and reading dictated
and from the proceeds I dressed as well as
any of the boys at the present time. I always
had some time, to play, time to read, and now
look back, with love and pleasant thoughts,
to the old farm and the firm-hand which
taught me to use tools, and whipped me
when I neglected to drive the team out
straight at the end of the furrow in plowing.
The remembrance of my boyhood has always
iduced me to favor all items of encourage-
ment at home on the farm; and I believe, if
it were more generally practiced, we should
have: more good farmers and less broken-
down merchants or loafing, hanging-on,
time-serving clerks, ready for anything ex-
cept honorable labor and usefulness.


SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.
	We would respectfully call your attention to the
fact, that we have one of the Largest and best Stocks
ot Ladies’, Misses’ and Children’s FURS in Sets, as
also Capes and Collars (separate), that will be found
in this City. Also a large assortment of Fine Shoes
of Philadelphia and California make.
	The above goods we will sell at the lowest possible
price.	
						DUNFORD & SONS,
							SALT LAKE CITY.
[new column]
CAMPBELL & PATTERSON, 
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah. 	
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for Woman’s Exponent.

			JOHNSON’S
	HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES
Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-
	ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.
   BONESET PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.
	EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.
   CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in
the side, back, breast, or other part of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.
   ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache and
many other ills. Price 50 cents.
   These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at
	ZION’S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,
Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.
   If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them.
   Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rales advantageous
to purchasers.
   AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.
From the Laboratory of
						J. E. JOHNSON,
						   St. George, Utah.
H. WALLACE
   Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

Z. C. M. I.
	RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.
   We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
riety of our Patron's.
	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated
			SALT LAKE GLOVES.
Children’s Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty.
   While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics
of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,
Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-
est possible figure.
				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup’t.
[new column]
			WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			A UTAH LADIES’ JOURNAL.

   The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani- 
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.
   They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply
   Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!'’
   For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.
   The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief graphic summary of current, news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on lending topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.
   It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.
   Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connect d with their workings;
and to this end  he Presidents and Secretaries of the
various societies thr ughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
   Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female 
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal, 
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.	
   WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto. 
   The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in 
Utah.	
	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1 Copy one year,	    $2.00	1 Copy six months. $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months, 9.00 
   No subscription received for less than six months.
   It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting 
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

   Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City,
Utah.

DR. W. H. GROVES,
						DENTIST,
   Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
			Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
   At No 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

﻿Vol. I. 	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 31, 1873.	 No. 17.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE WOMAN papers are divided in their
allegiance to the dominant party of the
country.
	THE DEATHS of nine eminent editors were
chronicled last year; seven in the United
States and two in France.
	ANOTHER EMINENT man gone! Lord
Bulwer Lytton, poet, novelist and dramatist,
reposes in Westminster Abbey.
	HUNGARY SHOWS its respect to the name
of the Emperor Francis Joseph, by im-
prisoning James L. Watson, an American,
traveler, for speaking derogatory of him.
	AN ALAMEDA California, mother, it is
said, has named her infant Laura D. Fair.
Tastes differ. Would she like the little
one to earn as much unenviable notoriety as
the one it is named after?
	WHAT IS the price of a seat in the United
States Senate? and, do honorable Senators
expect to steal enough during their terms to
repay the outlay and interest upon it? are
questions pertinent to the hour.
	THERE IS one officer in the United States,
who has served in the same calling thirty-
two years, and has not been found guilty of
defalcation or forgery; it is Charles S. Clark,
veteran fireman of Boston, now aged sixty-
three years.
	NAPOLEON IS said to have died of a large
clot of blood in one of the blood vessels near
the heart, and the learned call it "embo-
lism.” It was sufficient to kill him, even if
the heavy word is derived direct from the
Greek “embolus.”
	MILAN IS subscribing money for the erec-
tion of a monument to the memory of the
Emperor Napoleon III. Italy gratefully
remembers the efforts of the late French
Emperor to solidify the country, if not to
secure Italian unity.	
	THE STATE Temperance Convention of
Connecticut adopted a straight temperance
platform, with a full ticket of State officers.
No subject calls more loudly for attention,
or more necessarily demands it at present,
than that of temperance, and its friends have
need to be stirring themselves.
	SEVENTY-FIVE thousand men and many
millions of dollars are said to have been
sacrificed by Spain during the last four
years, to surpress the insurrection in Cuba,
which looks as formidable now as at
almost any other time. So much for forcing
on a people an unpopular government.
	THE VOORHEES anti-Mormon bill, of the
last session of Congress, it is said, has been
resurrected with a slightly changed form,
and presented in the Senate by Senator
Logan. Its object is to vest in the hands of
three persons—a U. S. judge, a district at-
torney and a U. S. Marshal—all power in
Utah; when the game of plunder can begin.
	MRS. GREELEY, whose ambitions are
reported to have been more intense than
those of her husband, is said to have made
the assertion that if she possessed the health,
the youth and the advantages of her
daughters she would shake the world!
With such a mother and the inimitable
Horace for a father, what may not be ex-
pected of the daughters? 
	THE HEADS of the Orleanist and Legiti-
mist aspirants to the French crown are 
reported to have come to an understanding,
and Chambord, chief of the Legitimists, is
quibbling over the question of the royal
standard. This is not waiting for dead
men’s shoes, but quarreling over who shall
wear them, and what kind of a shoe-string
they shall be tied with, before possession of
them is obtained. Napoleon is dead, but
the Bourbons do not yet rule France.
	LOUISIANA HAS two governors, each claim-
ing to be the lawful one; and two legislatures
with similar claims, that have elected two 
men to the United States Senate to fill the
seat of one. A great curse of the world 
is being over much governed, and Louisiana
seems to be in a fair way to have more than
her share of it; for there is danger, that in
addition to her double-headed monster at
home, federal authority may step in and set
both aside, or recognize one to the rejection
of the other, regardless of the will of the
majority of the citizens.
	ANOTHER MONARCH is about setting out
on his travels. The Shah of Persia pro-
poses to leave Teheran, the capital of Persia,
in April, with the intention of visiting
Constantinople, St. Petersburg, Berlin,
Vienna, London and Paris. He might add 
to the interest and attractiveness of his
journey by lecturing on what he knows
about famines, and telling how many of the
two millions of his subjects who died of
starvation might have been saved by the
use of the money which his European tour
will cost.
	IT IS reported that the Pope says the
bodies of the Apostles Philip and James
were discovered on Wednesday, January
5th, last, in the Church of the Apostles at
Rome. Were they embalmed? And if so
how did the poor followers of the despised
Savior secure such expensive treatment for
their bodies eighteen centuries ago? And
if they were not embalmed, how were they
preserved? Miraculously? And how were
they identified when found? It sounds
like a nice little religious romance, or what
in olden times used to be called “a pious
fraud;” which even Popes were supposed to
occasionally participate in.
	WOMAN SUFFRAGE is winning its way,
notwithstanding the ridicule with which it
is met, and which has to do duty for argu-
ment. A few days ago, on a debate in
Congress on the admission of Colorada as a
State, Mr. Sargent, of California, offered an
amendment that in the admission of new
States the right of suffrage should not be
abridged because of sex. Nothing may
come of this during the present Congress,
which expires on the 4th of next March;
but when the Forty-third Congress meets
there is good reason to believe that the
question of woman suffrage will receive
more attention than it has yet done. The
Republican party has given a semi-pledge
in favor of it, and Republicans in the next
Congress will be strong enough to carry any
measure they may choose. It is probable,
therefore, that during the present year this
question will advance so far that its agita-
tion will be not only more popular, but may
reach a successful consumation.
	FOR SOME weeks past the country has
been ringing with what is called the "Credit
Mobilier Scandal." Prominent members 
of Congress have been charged with having
received stock of the Credit Mobilier 
and the Union Pacific railroad to induce
them to vote for certain measures which
were expected to benefit the companies
named. Emphatic denials have been given
in public addresses, and have been sworn to
before the Congressional Committies inves-
tigating the affair; and yet the charges have
been just as emphatically sworn to, with the
details given in a manner that looks very
like convincing truth. But whether the
charges be true or false, one thing is plain;
members of Congress and prominent poli-
titions, on some side, are guilty of the
grossest perjury as they distinctly contradict
each other on oath, and that where there is
scarcely room to doubt that they know
exactly whether they are swearing truly or
falsely. This is a painful showing for the
legislators of a great country like this, and
is a strong argument in favor of the proposi-
tion that a few truthful, honorable women
in Congress wouldn't hurt but would help it.


﻿SCIENCE AND RELIGION.
			  —
	Truth is science, and science in its legiti-
mate form embraces all truth; and as “true
science and true religion walk hand in
hand,” nothing that is unscientific can be-
long to true religion, nor can anything that
is irreligious be classed with true science.
There are people whose ideas of religion 
lead them to pray a very great deal, and do
but little else, for fear of doing wrong, and
who dare not read other than spiritual
works; while many scientists, who demon-
strate great truths, being “unbelievers,”
take all the glory to themselves instead of
rendering it to God, the great Originator of
all intelligence. It may be unnecessary to
state here the obvious fact that these two
extremes are both wrong. In whatever form
the principle of divine truth is illustrated it
is sacred, and also scientifiic, and is an
established, fundamenal rule or portion of a
rule pertaining to the one true religion—the
Gospel of Jesus Christ.
	There are simple yet essential truths 
which appertain to daily, domestic life, as
lofty in their natures and more necessary to
be understood, than those of a grander and
more imposing character, which often startle
the world with their singular yet manifestly 
natural delineations. There are scientific 
and beautiful truths in the “Cookery Book” 
as well as in the Bible; and they all belong
to the true religion. It is quite as impor-
tant for present welfare and happiness to be 
considered, wherever it may be done in 
honor and wisdom, as that future blessed-
ness be sought for, regardless of the priva-
tions and inconveniences which may be
unnecessarily borne to-day, in consequence
of a lack of genuine faith and knowledge. 
Salvation is as good to-day as it will be in
days to come, if correctly viewed; and there
is no part of true science or true religion in
looking ever for future blessedness and
passing recklessly by those which should be
appreciated and enjoyed to-day.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿[Written for the Exponent.
					LONDON.	
					     ——
	Written while President G. A. Smith and party, consisting 
of L. Snow his sister E.R. Snow, F. Little, his daughter Clara, 
P. A. Sc ettler, G Dunford and T. Jennings were in London
“en route” for Palestine, 
			BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
				 —
	Far. far away from our dear native land,
	In England’s great Metropolis we stand;
	Where art a' d skill—labor and wealth combine
	With time’s co-operation in design
	Of superstructure’s bold and beauteous form,
	With all varieties of strength and charm.

	Here massive columns—stately towers, arise.
	And lift their spires in greetings to the skies; 
	Fine parks and gardens, palaces and halls.
	With scu ptured [niches,—frescue-painted walls; 
	Where no expense is spared to beautify,
	Nor time, nor toil, to captivate the eye,
	We saw, and viewing, continuously admired 
	The master strokes by Genius’ hand inspired.

	To “New Westminster Palace” we resort,
	Where the Chief Justice holds his august court;
	Twas then in session, and the Exchequer too—
	In wig and gown—a grand, imposing view!
	The House of Lords and Commons, too we saw,
	But not those grave expounders of the law.

	With deferential thought we fixed our gaze,
	There, in “The Prince’s Hall.” where face to face,
	On either side, on caved projections stood,
	With features varied as in life’s warm blood,
	White marble statues, from the sculptor’s hand,
	Of British Statesmen, men who could command
	The power of eloquence—the force of mind,
	A mighty nation’s destinies to bind—
	Chatham, Pitt, Granville. Walpole, Fox, beside
	Others who’re justly England's boast and pride.

	We visited the "Abbey" where repose in state,
	The effigies of many good and great,
	With some whose d eds are well deserving hate.
	Group’d in “ The Poet’s Corner,” here, we found,
	With rich, artistic sculpture trophies crown’d,
	The mem’ries of the muse’s world renown’d.

	In some compartments where old, massive stones
	Comprize the flooring, lie their mouldering bones,
	And we with reverential footsteps tread
	Above the ashes of the illustrious dead.

	  Great London City, mart of wealth and power,
	home for the wealthy—charnel for the poor!
	And here amid its boasted pomp and pride,
	Some faithful Soldiers of the Cross reside—
	A few choice spirits whom the watchman’s care,
	By humble search, found scatter’d here and there,
	“Like angels visit, few and far between,”
	As patient gardeners sep’rate clusters glean,
	  They barter earth’s allurements and device
	To gain the Pearl  of great and matchless price,
	And what to them the honors, pride and show
	That perish with their using, here below?
 	Their hopes are high—their noble aims extend
	Where life and peace and progress never end; 
	Where God’s own Kingdom, Time’s last-knell
		survives,
	Crowned with the gifts and powers of endless lives


F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.

			Harrisville, Weber Co.,
					January 5th, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	We forward a brief report of our Society,
which is in a prosperous condition. We
have a good organization, and good attend-
ance at our meetings. On account of our
scattered condition we only meet once
a month during the winter season; but the
sisters of the Society are willing to do all
the good they can. At a meeting in Decem-
ber last, a vote was taken to omit the word
“Female” from the name of the Society,
which was unanimous. With our best
wishes for the success of your interesting
paper which we peruse with pleasure and
from which we gain a great amount of in-
struction, and with much respect, we remain
yours, etc.,
	MRS. E. SHIRTLIFF, President,
MRS. E. TAYLOR, Secretary.

	Wellsville, Cache Co.,
		January.	7th,	1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	I forward a brief synopsis to you of the
[new column]
minutes of our last meeting, held on the 2d
inst, at which a vote was taken to omit the
word “Female” from the name of the
Society as suggested, which was unanimous.
Several brethren were present and gave us
good counsel; a good spirit prevailed. We
hold meeting regularly once a month, which
is pretty well attended. Our Society is
prosperous, all being desirous to assist in
doing good. Accept our best wishes for the
success of the “EXPONENT,” which we read
with great pleasure.
		MARIA PARKINSON, Secretary.

			     HYRUM, Cache Co.,
					January, 13, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	At a meeting of the Relief Society held
on Thursday November 6th, 1872, a motion
to have the word “Female” dropped from
the name, according to Sister Eliza R.
Snow’s suggestion, was carried by a unani-
mous vote.
	CHRISTINA LILJENQUIST, President.

	          KAYSVILLE, Jan. 20th, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	At a meeting of the Female Relief Society,
held in this place on the 9th of December
last, a vote was taken to drop the word
“Female” from the name of our Society,
which was carried unanimously.
	The Society in this place numbers about
150, through whose labors much good has
been accomplished. The poor have been
looked after and their wants in a measure
supplied. Fifty dollars have been given to
the P. E. Fund, and one hundred dollars for
other laudable purposes. We have two
hundred and twenty-five dollars in the Kays-
ville Co-operative store, and at present,
over one hundred dollars in the Treasury.
We are now making an effort to build a
house for the use of the Society. The cellar
and foundation walls are already completed.
Most of the material for the building is on
hand and paid for, and we expect to see
the walls go up early in the spring.
	Your valuable paper is much esteemed by
those who patronize it here.
			MARY A. HYDE, President.
HELLEN E. HYDE, Secretary.

	14 WARD ASSEMBLY ROOMS,
			          Salt Lake City.
	General Retrenchment Meeting, held
January 18th, 1873, presided over by Mrs.
Mary I Horne.
	After singing, and prayer by Counselor
Mrs. Zina D. Young, the minutes of the
preceding meeting were read by assistant
Secretary, Miss Maggie Mair, and approved.
The minutes of meetings of the Young
Ladies Retrenchment Associations, of the
9th and 11th wards, were also read. Presi-
dent Mrs. Horne spoke a short time. She
felt well in spirits, but on account of a bad
cold, contracted the evening before, was not
able to speak long; thought the sisters
should strive to be awake to their duties,
and be energetic in performing the same;
they should not trust to the Lord to do for
them what He had endowed them with
faculties to do for themselves.
	Counselor Mrs. S. M. Kimball spoke con-
cerning sympathy, true and false: When
she was in the midst of afflictions, she did
not want her friends to tell her how sorry
they felt for her, or to utter words of a nature
calculated to draw forth the emotions of
grief which she was striving to overcome;
she considered such, mistaken sympathy,
and preferred, when she paw a friend weighed,
down with sorrow, to offer something that
might serve to strengthen and build up
[new column]
faith and trust, rather than to incite and
prolong suffering, by speaking words, meant
for consolation, but only wringing more
effectually the heart already tried.
	Counselor Mrs. Elizabgth Howard read
the letter from Sister E. R. Snow, which
appears in this number of the Exponent,
addressed to President Mrs. Horne and her-
self. After which, remarks were made by
several members of the Association, and
meeting adjourned for two weeks, “Faith”
being chosen for the subject to be treated
upon at the next meeting.

				SUGAR HOUSE WARD,
				       	January 15th, 1873
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	At our monthly meeting, held in the
School House, November 3rd, 1872, Mrs.
Sarah Gibson presiding, a unanimous vote
was taken to omit the word “Female” from
the name of the Society as suggested by
Sister E. R. Snow.
	Our Ward is widely scattered, nevertheless
we do the best we can with our surroundings,
administering to and blessing the poor.
There are always a few good, faithful sisters
on hand who are ready and willing to do all
that is required of them. Our President,
Mrs. S. Gibson, gives us good and valuable
instructions. May she long live to fill the
position she now occupies
	I have been a member of this Church for
18 years, and I still desire to do right and be
faithful to the end.
	With kind wishes for the success of your
paper, I am yours affectionately,
			SARAH WHEELER, Secretary.

			RICHMOND, Jan. 12th, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	At our regular monthly meeting, held the
first Thursday in November, we unanimously
agreed to drop the word “Female” from the
name of the Society, according to Sister
Eliza R. Snow’s suggestion. This report
has been sent before, but as it has not
appeared in the Exponent, I suppose it has
not reached you, and I accordingly send
another.
	As a society we are doing our best to bless
those in trouble, sickness and poverty; of
the latter class, thank God, but few have
need of our assistance.
	Your excellent paper is a most welcome
visitor in my home, and it is highly appre-
ciated—as it seems—by many of our sisters.
God bless and prosper you in your noble un-
dertaking.
		SARAH A. MERRILL, President..
			OGDEN, Jan. 20th, 1873.

EDITOR EXPONENT:	
	Since my last account of our Society’s
doings, we have passed its third Anniver-
sary; on which occasion the report showed
the amount received since January 1st, 1872,
$636:24, and the amount disbursed,$599:15.
Our Treasurer, Sister R. Canfield, finding
her duties too laborious in the Institution,
desired to be released, and tendered her
resignation; whereupon Sister H. M. Ballan-
tyne was elected to that office. Sister Josie
Richards was also chosen assistant Secretary.
	On the 19th of December the Society held
its first meeting in the New City Hall. It
was a time of unusual interest to all who
were present. Elders Richards, Herrick,
Farr, Penrose and Ballantyne met with us
and each addressed the meeting, giving
much excellent instruction and encourage-
ment, a report of which you have, no doubt,
read in the columns of the “Junction.” On
the evening of the same day the Society had


a party which, as far as I have heard, all
agree was one of the best in Ogden this
winter. Our meetings are held regularly
on each alternate Thursday afternoon, in
the New City Hall. President Richards,
Bishop Herrick and the brethren generally
seem to take pleasure in advising and assist-
ing us to get along so as to make our labors
pleasant to us as well as beneficial to our-
selves and others. We think there is a
gradually increasing interest in the affairs,
of the Society in this place, and we hope to
continue to have that feeling and influence
until all the worthy of our sex are happily
engaged with us.
				Amelia M. Frodsham.

	From a report of a meeting held by the
Society of the 1st Ward of this city, on
November 7th, last, which is now too old to
be published at length, we learn that a vote
was taken by those present to drop the word
“Female” from the name of the Society.
Mrs. M. Chase is president, and Mrs. Eliza-
beth Thayne secretary. The Society is in a
healthy condition.	

	Sister Hannah Carter, Secretary of the
Relief Society of Springville, forwards a
cheering report of that Society, which has
also taken the necessary vote to dispense
with the word “Female” in connection with
the name.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	
	A Poor, patient man, of my personal
acquaintance, is a bachelor, wandering from
place to place, without one gentle, loving
word of sympathy ever being uttered for
him by cherished lips; without a hand to
clasp as dearer than any other in the world
to him, or a trusting heart to beat in unison
with his own. I am also acquainted with a
lady who is moving rapidly on towards
thirty; pale and rather pensive, who stands
behind a counter instead of taking charge of
a household, as she should do at her present
age, leaving the shop for some one younger
or older to mind. And all this because she
did not understand cooking. She would not
learn to cook, and the gentleman, now a
bachelor, would not "pop the question." To
this some of our "strong minded women,"
would say, "Serves him right, silly 'brute'—
let him learn to do his own cooking!" But I
believe in "woman's rights." And did not 
our dear, old great-grandmother, Eve, set
us a worthy example in looking after what
she and Adam were to eat? And did not
Adam partake of what she had prepared for
him, without interfering with her domestic
arrangements? thus proving that a woman
naturally understands better what is good
for herself and her household than a man
does. Gentlemen wish, when they marry,
to get wives who know enough to manage
the affairs of the kitchen without their over-
sight and opinion about everything. Only
intermeddlers think they know enough for
themselves and the rest of the family too,
and so trusting, marry indolent, ignorant
girls, who are only fit for parlor ornaments,
and never know or care to know whether
the food they eat is calculated to promote or
injure health. Now, if you want to marry a
gentleman, young lady, be wise and make
yourself worthy of being a gentleman's wife
—learn to cook.

						Aunt Trudie.
	Making Bread.—Milk is always prefer-
able to water for mixing. Accurately
measure or weigh everything used in mak-
ing bread. Experience has shown that
baking pans should be about seven inches
long, four inches deep, and four inches wide
on the bottom, flaring and fitted with covers.
This fact is worthy of attention. Every
cook should consult the taste in the use of
salt. A quart of sifted flour, loosely put in,
will weigh a pound.
	When Storing away dried fruit, put in
small twigs and leaves of the China tree.
A large quantity is not required, and the
leaves, etc., can easily be taken out when
the fruit is to be used. This is said to be a
certain preventative against worms in all
kinds of dried fruit. 
	A Cement said to stop cracks in glass
vessels to resist moisture and heat:    Disolve
caseine in cold saturated solution of borax
and with this solution paste strips of hog's 
or bullock's bladder (softened in water) on
the glass and dry at a gentle heat; if the 
vessel is to be heated, coat the bladder on
the outside before it has become quite dry, 
with a paste of a rather concentrated solu-
tion of silicate of soda and quick lime or 
plaster of Paris. 
	Plain Apple Pie.- For the crust boil
white, mealy potatoes, mash smooth with
milk as for the table, and let it cool. Knead 
in graham or unbolted flour to mix well, and
roll out.    Put in a good quantity of apples
prepared as for sauce.    Put, in place of an
upper crust, bars of crust across. 
	Cooking Raisins.-It is well to cook
raisins before putting them into pies, cakes
or puddings. Soaking them is not sufficient.
Steaming them, by pouring a small quantity
of boiling water amongst them in a tightly 
closed dish, and allowing them plenty of 
time to cook before opening, is a good plan.
When rasins are rightly cooked before using
they are plumper and more palatable, and
can be eaten without injury by most dyspep-
tics.


﻿[For theExponent.
		EXERCISE FOR GIRLS. 
			     ——
	Since the body is not only the “temple of
the soul,” but also its servant and friend,
the means by which it is able to make im-
pressions on tangible things, it has claims to
care and culture, education and development,
only secondary, to those of the soul itself.
If it be true that a cramped body can only
give imperfect impressions to the desires
and capabilities of the soul, how manifestly
important that no pains should be spared to
unfold every latent power, and train to the
utmost extent of useful action, every bone,
muscle, organ and nerve which the body
contains!
	This article is written especially in the in-
terest of girls, for custom has long demanded
for boys vigorous and healthy exercise,
which is the legitimate means of giving
harmonious vigor to the body. But custom
has also forbidden for girls such exercise,
because forsooth, it is ungenteel to wrestle,
run and row; and scarcely dare the slaves of
sex and fashion indulge in equestrian exer-
cise; certainly not without various trappings
and restrictions which fetter free movement.
It is time that more common-sense views
were entertained on this subject, expecially
by the people of Utah, whose aim is the
renewal of the primeval strength and
longevity of the human race. There can be
no valid reason why we may not break
through the trammels of foolish and ground-
less customs, such, for instance, as the deep
prejudice against whistling. If it is proper
for a boy to whistle, why be shocked so 
deeply when under similar circumstances a
girl indulges in the harmless pastime! Not
that to be debarred from whistling would be
a great privation, but little things exemplify
[new column]
great ones; as the Bostonians argued respect-
ing three cents a pound on tea.
	It is not enough that one sex be trained to
bodily strength and symmetry; that is doing
the work by halves. Let the girls also have
due attention on this point. And do not 
let all their exerciese be drudgery, either.
Washing, sweeping and churning are all
very well in their place; but if "all work and
no play make Jack a dull boy," I contend
that it will also make Jill a dull girl. She
should learn to skate, to swim, to play ball,
and—yes, to shoot! Self protection demands
this last in these wild, western countries,
and to my mind it would be far more pleas-
ing to see our girl going out on shooting ex-
cursions with her brothers and sturdily
bearing home at night the game she has
captured, than laced up in corsets, with 
smelling bottle at nose, giving little plain-
tive screams if she should spy a mouse, or a 
frog, or any of God's harmless creatures
which should awaken admiration for His
boundless wisdom, instead of fear or even
disgust. It is high time that such nervous
timidity, not to say such affectation, should 
pass into disfavor. And the very best way
to accomplish this desirable end, would be 
to give the girl such confidence in her phy-
sical prowess that she would feel herself
equal to any small contingencies.
	It would be a pleasant sight to see com-
modious play-grounds attached to every
schoolroom in the land; where both boys 
and girls should be encouraged tp engage on
active games suitable to their age and 
strength. And more; well ordered and well
conducted calistheniums should be estab-
lished where girls might hoard strength of
nerve and spine, which shall enable them to
defy the ailments which to-day afflict
their mothers and almost make their lives a
burden. Like all good things, exercise
must be used with due moderation; but so
long as it does not pass that boundary, it is 
the great tonic which will give lithe limbs,
bright eyes, and straight spines to the next
generation. No better physicians can be
found than pure air, regular habtis, cheer-
fulness and —judicious exercise. Give these
to the girls as well as the boys, and see how
soon feeble, incapable, wornlooking mothers
will be replaced by rosy, smiling matrons,
whose well-ordered households and beauti-
ful, sweet-tempered children, bear witness 
to their great capabilities.
							L.L.D.


A LETTER FROM ELIZA COOK.—The
“Western Mail” states that a gentleman
residing in South Wales, having written to
Miss Eliza Cook expressing the sympathy 
felt by him and other local bards for the
poetess, in respect of the rumors circulated
as to her death, has received the following
acknowledgement:—“Beech-house, Thorn-
ton-hill, Wimbledon, S. W., near London,
Nov. 30, 1872.—I am too worried to write
much, my dear friend, for such I feel you to
be—but I must acknowledge your kind and
manly letter. The ‘people’ are, indeed, most
sympathizing with me, and their generous
support goes far to soften the bitterness of
the cruel and unfounded reports lately
issued about me. You may be glad to learn
that I have lived during the last ten years
with a nephew and his family; occasionally
visiting my brother. The last three years
we have resided here, and a most happy
home I have, where I hope to really die,
when it pleases the Great Father to call me
to my eternal rest. I am a sufferer, but my
brain has never lost its perfect power, and I
hope it never will.—With warm thanks to
yourself and your circle, I am, my dear Sir,
yours truly ever,—ELIZA COOK.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

	LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers Woman’s Exponent,
								Salt	Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JANUARY 31, 1873.


﻿SPLINTERS.

    Laura D. Fair is reported to be before the
San Francisco court again, bringing suit this
time......English papers congratulate New
York on the final condemnation of Stokes......
King Victor Emanual has had a severe
attack of rheumatic fever......Nilsson will
return to America this year......The Grand
Duke Alexis will take a turn in Siberia........
New York has one hundred lady physicians.
......Lafayette, Indiana, has the spotted
fever and eighty-two licensed saloons......
Foreign Ministers at Hong Kong, report
says, are no longer required to kneel and
bow their heads to the floor on entering the
presence of his “Celestial” Highness......Con-
cord, New Hampshire, and Springfield, Illi-
nois, had destructive fires at the same time,
recently......Kentucky has filled two asy-
lums and wants another......Western people
have had but little sleighing, though there
has been considerable slaying carried on
so far this season......A new system of send-
ing telegrams in opposite directions on the
same wire simultaneously, is in use on the
Western Union lines......Vallejo, California,
claims possession of the embalmed body of
an emperor who ruled China three thousand
years ago......A lady’s hat with all its trim-
mings and a band box was lately sent from
California to Maine, for eleven cents postage.
......Turin, Italy, has produced a thirty-three
ton cannon......Yale college students have
spent over $10,000 within the last two
months for pictures of themselves......A
hymenial paper, called the “Matrimonial
News” was started in Chicago on the first of
January......The “Bethel Fair,” lately held
in Cincinnati, for charitable purposes, realized
$21,405:99......There is likely to be an enor-
mous emigration to this country early in
the spring......Ex-Senator Ross has com-
menced the publication of a small evening
paper in Lawrence, Kansas......Iowa sold
226,680 acres of swamp land last year.......
Prince Charles of Prussia, has been ap-
pointed to the honorary command of a
brigade of Russian artillery, by the Czar.......
Street railways are under way in Calcutta
......Ic-icles, forty feet long, indicate the
weather in Hartford, Connecticut.......Two
lashes a pound is the rate paid by dusky
Georgians for stolen turkeys......Sixty-three
Georgia gin-houses have been burned up
within the last four months......During a
recent hurricane, waves forty feet high
dashed over the quays at Naples......The
number of Italians rendered homeless by
the late floods will exceed 80,000......The
gold mines of Peru are more comepletely
exhausted than those of California......The
chances are that 1816, the coldest year ever
known in the Eastern States, will yet find
its match in 1873......According to accounts,
New York had, on an average last year, two
fatal accidents a day and three suicides and
one murder weekly......A man accused of
bigamy declared he could see no fault in
having an appetite for spare ribs......A dissi-
pated youth in Virginia was shot by Mrs.
Price while in the act of eloping with her
daughter......Two old misers in Jacksonville,
Illinois, froze to death, lately, with an
abundance of fuel in the house......Failures
of large houses tn London are rappidly suc-
ceeding each other; that of Anselmo,
Vivante & Co., merchants, failed lately,
liabilities $3,500,000......Newburyport has a
school-house which is said to be haunted by
the ghost of a beautiful little boy, with pale
face, mild blue eyes and flaxen hair......The
Empress Eugenie will issue a proclamation
to the people of France, that she assumes
the regency during the minority of her son
......During the year of 1871, New York had
26,976 deaths and in 1872, 32,647 deaths......
It is urged that the present prices paid for
telegraphing are too high, and that if the
lines were under control of the Govern-
ment the rates would be lowered......Mark
Twain’s “New Cock Robin,” published in
the Hartford “Evening Post,” furnishes
five editors for the New York “Tribune”
—himself included—and all these failing,
offers George Francis Train as a positive
success......The oldest governor in the
United States is General Dix......The Patri-
arch of Jerusalem, recently died in that
city......Miss Susan M. Johnson lectures in
St. Louis on the Gospel of Spiritualism......
White furs are used in Paris for trimming
evening dresses......Spurgeon, whose life
was lately despaired of, has entirely re-
gained his health......Fred Douglas is going
to Europe......A gentleman remarks that the
richest thing he has seen during the season
of mud, was a purple silk velvet morn ing
dress which swept the streets, worn by the
wife of a man who works for his daily wages.


SUFFRAGE IN THE TERRITORIES.
	By the acts of Congress creating the several
Territorial governments, which are in reality
the Constitutions provided for those Terri-
tories, the several legislatures can exercise
their law-making powers “upon all rightful
subjects of legislation.” This clearly gives
them the authority to regulate the question of
suffrage within their respective limits, and to
prescribe the qualifications of voters. They
have the right to say that it is not necessary
for an American citizen to be a male to possess
the requisite quaifications, and that a woman
has an equal right with a man to cast a ballot
for any elective officer. And it is a question
with the best jurists of the country whether
Congress has the power to take away any of
those Territorial Constitutions, by repealing
the acts, after having once granted them, unless
to admit the Territory as a Sovereign State.
Certainly Congress cannot, by any legitimate,
exercise of its power, prohibit the exercise of
the authority conferred in an Organic act upon,
a Territorial legislature, without repealing that
Organic act.	
	Two Territories have granted the right of
suffrage to women—Wyoming and Utah. The
legislature of the latter Territory at its last
session, passed a bill repealing the woman
suffrage act, but Governor Campbell vetoed it,
and women continue to enjoy the right of suf-
frage there. No proposition has yet been made
in the Utah legislature to repeal the woman
suffrage act of this Territory, but a proposition
has been made several times, by the anti-Mor-
mon press and speakers, to ask Congress to pass
an act prohibiting woman suffrage in Utah;
and this, simply because the “Mormon’ 
women have voted as their intelligence, pro-
clivities, or desires dictated. This is a novel
illustratipn of the “liberalism” so loudly,
vaunted by anti-Mormon speakers; that be-
cause a majority of the ladies of this Territory,
wlio are American citizens, will not vote as
[new column]
they desire, therefore those ladies should be
deprived of the right to vote! On the same
theory, the Republicans in States where they
are in a minority, should call upon Congress to
pass an act disfranchising Democrats and all
others that refused to vote the Republican
ticket; and Democrats in such States as Maine,
Vermont, Massachusetts and Iowa should de-
mand that their more numerous opponents of
the Republican faith should be deprived of the
right of suffrage for refusing to vote for the
Democratic candidates.
	The statement that the women of Utah—and
particularly the "Mormon"—women—are co-
erced, terrorized or in any manner compelled to
vote contrary to their inclination or conviction,
is a gross calumny; and as a woman speaking
for the women of the Territory, we so denounce
it. Possibly there may be here and there a
poor, spiritless creature, like the Michigan hus-
band whose wife said when a candidate came
around to canvas his vote; "No, sir! I wouldn't
let my husband vote for you on any consider-
ation! You clear out of here, and if he votes
for anybody wiihout my permission, let him
look out; that's all!" We say possibly there
may be found in Utah, as in every community,
one or two such creatures; but the ladies of
Utah, as a class, exercise the suffrage on their
own honest convictions, vote for the candidates
whom they favor, and do so intelligently, with
as sound reasons for their action, and with as
high an appreciation of the ballot, as can be
shown by the male voters of any part of this
Republic.


A STEP TOWARDS REFORM.

	Men may say that women have less charity 
for the “fallen” of their own sex, than for the
corrupt and licentious among men. Admitting 
this to be too true, as evinced in practice if
not in sentiment, are not men the graver trans-
gressors even here? More than one gentleman
has, in our presence, lately drawn attention to
the shameful fact that the meanest libertines
among men, so they have wealth, have also in-
fluence, and are not only admitted to the best
circles in society, but are looked up to, fawned
upon and their company sought for by ladies,
as well as gentlemen, of the best society.
While a woman who has fled the paths of
virtue, no matter what the fatal cause may
have been or how pure-minded and innocent
she was known to be before she “fell,” has lost
her reputation, is shunned and looked down
upon by ladies in position, in many instances
the very ones who smile upon and flatter and
admire those who compassed her ruin. But
who first bring these popular scoundrels into
the presence of ladies in good society? Is it not
often the husband, father or brother who intro-
duces such a creature of humanity to the family
circle, and as a friend of such, are not the
members of the family bound to receive him
with courtesy? If the father invites him to
dinner should not the daughter accept his in-
vitation to attend the lecture? And if the
brother considers him a worthy companion to
walk and ride with, could the sister, in common
civility refuse to dance with him? Yet men in
good standing in society who have any regard
for their name, would not be seen in company
with a “fallen” woman, or allow their wives or
daughters to associate with her.
	A good story comes to us through private
sources, from one of the Eastern cities, in
reference to the injustice and inconsistency of
men on these points; which we give, as it
reaches us, while with-holding names:	
	A well-to-do gentleman, half merchant and
half farmer, with a family of five, including


himself, his wife, a clever lady of Irish descent,
while he is, himself an American, a son of
fine intellect and good education and two bril-
liant and witty daughters who are all grown to
maturity, gave a ball and supper on Christmas
evening. In the afternoon, before the guets
began to arrive, the younger gentleman of the
house came in with an intimate friend of his
with whom his sisters had met before, and of
whom they had heard “hard” stories. The
brother informed his mother and sisters that
said "friend” would be one of their guests that
evening. Of course they were “pleased”—
etiquette would not admit of their being other-
wise. As soon as the gentlemen left, a private
consultation of a serious nature took place
among the ladies, which ended in the elder Miss
—putting on cloak and hood and taking a walk
down around the corner. When she returned,
after some little delay, she was not alone. She
and a companion were met at the side gate by
her sister—father and brother were in the front
parlor. The two sisters and their guest, for
such was the third person, proceeded through
the back kitchen up stairs. The guests were
beginning to arrive. In half an hour the young
ladies were ready to join their mother in the
reception room. Choosing a moment when her
son was beside her, the two sisters approached
their mother, leading their shrinking yet
beautiful guest. With a kind maternal smile
the matron extended her hand while the young
man turned away with a horrified expression
exclaiming, “Powers of mercy!” As soon as
he could find a chance, he questioned his mother
and sisters as to what in the world had induced
them to have that creature present. They told
him she was there on purpose to meet his
“friend;” whereupon, the young gentleman
declared he should show her not the slightest
respect. To this his sisters affirmed that “that
knavish scamp of a friend” of his should share
the same at their hands. The appearance of
the “lady” guest in the ballroom, created quite
a sensation, but the ladies of the house paid her
such attention that their other guests could
not slight her. And several “respected” gentle-
men who were well known to be dissolute in
their habits, were severely “cut” by the brave
mother and daughters when they observed in
the father or son any signs of insurrection. The
circumstance has been a lesson to the whole
neighborhood, but most and best of all, to the
“fallen” girl who was the guest of the sisters,
and who, our informant states, is entirely re-
claimed.
	The experiment was a serious if not a danger-
ous one and would not do for many people to
repeat, but it illustrates the gross injustice of
society in the treatment of men and women who
may have fallen into evil ways; and shows
clearly the necessity for reform beginning with
the male members of families, who should shun
the male sinners with equal horror to that with
which they expect their wives, sisters and
daughters to shun the female sinners.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.
				     —
   ANOTHER INTERESTING letter from Miss
Eliza R. Snow will be found in this number of
the EXPONENT.
	ATTENTION is directed to the list of club-
rates on the last page of the present number of
the EXPONENT.
	SHOULD SUBSCRIBERS, especially in the
southern portions of the Territory, not receive
the present number by mail in proper time,
they will please remember that the irregularity
of mail service, owing to the horse distemper,
is the reason.


SUNDAY SCHOOL entertainments, of a very
interesting character, have been given in several
of the wards of this city, so far this winter, and
others are in preparation; the proceeds arising
from a small admission fee, being used for the
benefit of the schools. Singing, recitations,
dialogues, music and select reading are the
principal features of these exhibitions; which
seem to be generally agreed upon as being
superior to dancing, even among the littte folks.
	MONDAY, THE 27th ult., in spite of the “epi-
zootic,” being present, disabling many of the
fine horses, when the snowing and blowing of
the morning was over, witnessed for the first
time this winter, a neat little sleigh—perhaps
more than one of them, but one at least—speed-
ing swiftly along the streets of Salt Lake City
with a load of happy, smiling ladies. There has
been little sleighing in this city for sevreal
winters past.
	AN ARTICLE in the present issue of the E	XPO-
NENT, with the title “Exercise for Girls,” is
commended to the careful consideration of all.
Its author has already favored the columns of
the EXPONENT with a number of choice com-
munications, which elucidate principles of
importance and should secure the attention of
women everywhere, for their value becomes
more apparent the more reflection is bestowed
upon them. We are always pleased to receive
a letter in the now well-known handwriting,
satisfied that a perusal of its contents will well
repay the time so occupied.
	THERE ARE all the indications that another
crusade against the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints is about to be commenced,
having its origin in this city. Those who en-
gage in it will fail in accomplishing their
object, as they have done before; but it is none
the less incumbent upon all who desire peace
and the power of truth to be with them, to be
diligent in doing good, and seek earnestly for
that light and intelligence and that strength
which will enable them to overcome evil. In-
deed this is one great means by which those
who desire to bring destruction upon the people
will be frustrated in their purposes..


﻿A GENTLEMAN who had left his wife alone
in the theatre while he went out to get
a whiff of fresh air “apologized” on his re-
turn.   “Dear me” said she “I thought you
went to give me a chance to flirt with that
man with the lovely black mustache.”  She
has had no cause to complain of any want of
attention from her husband since.
	FROM home we are to procure the happi-
ness of a whole life, while from the world
only a few moments of pleasure; it is,
therefore, becoming, and in keeping with
good sense, to be as polite and amiable at
home as in other society.
	SOME one has said that a young mother is
the most beautiful thing in nature. Why
qualify it? Why young? are not all
mothers beautiful? The sentimental outside
beholder may prefer youth in the pretty
picture, but I am inclined to think that sons
and daughters, who are most intimately
concerned in this matter, love and admire
their mothers most when they are old. How
suggestive of something holy and venerable
it is when a person talks of his “dear
mother.” Away with your mincing “ma-
mas,” suggestive only of a fine lady, who
deputes her duty to nurse, a drawing-room
maternal parent, who is afraid to handle
her offspring for fear of spoiling her new
gown. Give me the homely mother, the
arms of whose love all-embracing, who is
always beautiful, whether old or young,
whether arayed in satin, or modestly habited
in bombazine.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.
				—
	DISTURBANCES are threatened in Wales
by the striking miners.
	FIFTY-nine fishermen were drowned at
Yarmouth, England, in the recent gales.
	AUSTIN, Texas, talks of bridging the Col-
orado at a cost of $500,000.
	A COLORED sportsman in Florida bagged
nine full grown alligators in one day.
	IT is estimated that the annual production
of gold throughout the world is now about
$200,000,000. 
	THE largest deposits of anthracite coal in
the world are in Pennsylvania, the mines of
which supply the market with millions of
tons annually.
	THE annual cost of maintenance of the gal-
vanic batteries used by the Western Union
Telegraph Company is over $125,000.
	BRIGHTON, England, has just opened to
visitors with appropriate ceremony, a mag-
nificent aquarium, probably the largest in
the world.
	FOR the first time in the court annals of
Maryland a man has sued a woman for
refusing to marry him. He lays his damages
at $3,000.
	THE poor Indian is represented in Oregon
by Howlish Wampoo, who has 600 head of
cattle, 2,000 horses and a bank account of
$5,000.	
	EZRA Cornell has lately invested $1,000
in a bust of President Lincoln, copied from
Vinnie Ream’s statue of him, and he will
give it to Cornell University.
	A RUSSIAN lady, who desires to be anony-
mous, but is rumored to be “still very young
and a native of Siberia,” has offered 50,000
roubles for a medical course for ladies, to be
given at the Imperial College of Physicians 
	UPON the sudden death of Mr. George P.
Putnam, three eminent publishers gener-
ously assumed the charge of his business
during the holiday season, for the benefit of
his family, until the surviving members of
the firm can return from abroad and assume
control.
	MADAME Ocker-Boulacre, who died re-
cently at Geneva, and who was famed for 
her beneficence, has left bequests to the
amount of 155,000 francs. Among others,
one of 40,000 to the bureau des Families,
one of 10,000 francs to the National Hospital,
and one of 25,000 francs to the Cantonal
Hospital.
	IT is estimated that in England, more
than 3,000 infants are every year suffocated
by their mothers, who have them with them
in bed. In Bavaria there is a law which
prohibits parents having children under two
years in bed with them, the result being
that instances of suffocation of infants are
very rare there.
	THE Charleston “Republican” has the fol-
lowing:	An exchange paper says that
“Leland Stanford came to California twenty
years ago with only one shirt to his back:
since then, by close attention to business,
he has accumulated 10,000,000.” The “Re-
publican” wants to know what a man wants
of 10,000,000 shirts.


BENEVOLENCE is literally well-willing.
Beneficence is literally well doing. The
former consists of intention the latter of
action. The former is the cause, the latter
the result. Benevolence may exist without
beneficence, but beneficence always supposes
benevolence; a man is not said to be benefi-
cent who does good from sinister views.
The benevolent man enjoys but half his
happiness if he cannot be beneficent.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿[Written for the EXPONENT.
		THE "WOMAN’S EXPONENT.”
					—
			We’re no longer contented
			To be misrepresented,
		    In all matters by an opponent;
			 So with common consenting,
			 We are now representing
		    Ourselves, in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

			'Tis a small publication,
			Full of choice information,
		    Which the Saints in all places should favor
			For, our faith in explaining
			And our rights in sustaining,
		    There’s none that is truer or braver.

			'Tis a journal for ladies,
			Ev’ry one that a maid is,
		    As well as the wife and the mother;
			 ’Tis a champion of virtue,
			And it never will hurt you.
		    But help you to love one another.

			If you like this description,
			Prove it by your subscription—
		    Excuse me for thus gently hinting;
			And let those who are able
			Keep the Editor’s table
		    Well furnished with items worth printing.
									A MUSER.


A WORD OF CAUTION 	
				—
   The many terrible accidents recorded of
late, occasioned by fires in all parts of the
country, will, perhaps, justify me in the
sight of mothers and those who may become
mothers, in offering to them a word of
caution. Permit me, sisters, to entreat you
to take great care of your little ones and
never leave a match, or any other article
with which they may do harm, within their
reach. I have ever been a great lover of
little children, and they share largely in my
sympathies; for, although I was never a
mother I am an orphan child, only 88 years
old the 8th of August last.
   It is well to remember that when acci-
dents do occur, as they will sometimes with
all our precautions, that presence of mind
should always be preserved, for it is needed.
Four years since I had a little experience
with fire which showed me the necessity of
being calm in a moment of danger. I had
been at work with a large kettle placed over
a fire out door, and not having completed
what I had to do one day, the next morning
I thought to finish my task. I had placed
the fuel under the kettle; it had not yet
blazed; and I reached over to get something
that I wanted to use, when instantly the
fire roared and the blaze coming out half a
yard caught my dress, taking two breadths
nearly to the waist ere I could extinguish it by
wrapping the remainder of the skirt about
and smothering the flames. I ran into my
room, the burning dress was quickly thrown
into water, and I had another on and went
and finished my work, while no one but my-
self was the wiser or knew anything of what
had happened. Had I waited to cry “fire”
when the flames caught my clothes, all
would, doubtless, have been over with me;
but I was no more excited at the moment
than I am now while writing of it.
					RHODA RICHARDS.


THE spirit of true religion breathes gentle
ness and affability; it is social, kind, and
cheerful; far removed from that gloomy,
illiberal superstition and bigotry which
cloud the brow, sour the temper, deject the
spirit, and impress morosity on the man-
ners.
	REFORM, to be of any permanent value,
must be based on personal virtue, not force;
and the millennium will not be far off when
each individual shall set about reforming
himself, rather than society, and conforming
his life to the great law of loving God and
his fellow-men.


THE SEX.
			      —
	MISS Hunt, of Emporia, Kansas, is the
clerk of the lower branch of the Legisla-
ture.
	THERE are six ordained women pastors
in the Universalist Church in the United
States.
	A YOUNG lady of Los Angeles, California,
owns 600 acres of land, and 4,000 head of
cattle, and is still unengaged.
	A NIECE of Daniel Webster is keeping
a Boston lodging house, and her husband
sells fish. She once married for money.
	THE Marchioness of Lorne has been
elected President of the British National
Union for improving the education of
Women.
	THE woman who never watched her
neighbors is said to be a cousin to the
woman who did not know how many dresses
her sister-in-law had.
	MISS Julia Griffin, a young sculptress of
Brooklyn, succeeds Miss Ream at the Indus-
trial Fair. She is at present modeling a
bust of General James Jourdan.
	A WOMAN lately died at Newburyport
who was one of the choir of girls who
greeted General Washington with a song, on
his entrance to Newburyport.
	MRS. Partington says that she did not
marry her second husband because she loved
the male sex, but just because he was the
size of her first husband, and could wear his
old clothes.
	MISS Elizabeth C. Frink, who was teacher
in the Quincy School for about thirty-one
years—from April 30th, 1838, to January
1st, 1869, died very suddenly a few days
ago at her residence, 218 Northampton street.
	IDA Wilson, “nee” Lewis, the GRACE
DARLING of America, still makes Newport
her home, and can often be seen in the
harbor managing her boat. Notwithstand-
ing her marriage she prefers to be callad Ida
Lewis.
	MISS Smiley is converting the Chicagoans
at least to the belief that a woman can
preach, and in such a sweet, womanly way
as to make men ashamed of their sins, and
fill some of the ministers with a pardonable
envy. Even the Presbyterian pulpits are
open to her, and without a ripple of dissent.
	A MONUMENT to the intrepid Hannah
Austin, who killed nine Indians and thus
effected her escape from savage captivity,
is to be erected at the scene of her exploits,
at the juncton of the Contoocook and Pemi-
gewassett rivers, in New Hampshire.
	A YOUNG lady writes to an exchange
giving a receipt for having fun. She says:
Invite half a dozen boys and girls to your
house when pa and ma are away; put a half-
dollar silver piece in a dish with molasses
an inch deep in it, and offer it to the boy
who gets it out with his mouth. The more
the boys try to get it the more fun there will
be.
	ONE day during the hard winter of 1803,
a Miss Arnold applied to General Milroy for
a permit to forage her cow, the milk of which
was the chief support of the family. “Are
you loyal?” asked the General. “Yes,” she
replied. He began to write the permit
—“To the United States or Confederate
States?” “To the Confederacy, of course,”
she replied. “Then I shall give you no
permit,” said the General: “This infamous
rebellion must be crushed.” “Well,” said
she, “if you can crush it by starving John
Arnold’s cow, go it.”


WOMAN'S VOICE. 
			      ——
			OGDEN CITY, Jan. 13, 1873.
EDITOR EXPONENT:—
   I am not accustomed to write to Editors,
but as we now have one of our own sex,
I desire to communicate to her with free-,
dom. It was for the Gospel that I came to
these valleys in 1848. I know it is the work
of the Lord, the plan of salvation unto all
those who will hearken unto and obey its
precepts. I am a firm believer in all its
principles, as revealed to us through Joseph
Smith; and that if any man thinks to put
down “Mormonism" or plural marriage, it is
between him and the Lord; for the Lord has
commanded; we but obey. I am a free
woman in “polygamy;” and never had
more liberty anywhere in the world
than I have now. The Lord has set up His
Kingdom for the last time, and all the
powers of evil cannot put it down. I think
much of the “EXPONENT” and anxiously
await its coming; it is highly prized by the
brethren of this place, as well as the sisters.
Our Society is prospering well under the
care of our beloved President, Sister Jane
Richards, who, I think, is an example among
women and a pattern for us all.
							   M. H. B.
DEAR EXPONENT:
    While reading your columns, I thought I
would add a few words in my own, simple
way, if acceptable. In the first place, I am
glad that we have such a paper, and think
that it, and also the “Juvenile Instructor”
should be taken and read in every family
in the Territory, for the benefit of young
and old.
    I feel in my heart to glorify the name of
God for His goodness in sending His servants
who brought the glad tidings of the Gospel
to the land of my nativity. When I was
young, beside my mother’s knee, she taught
me good things which I did not forget as I
grew to womanhood. She used to tell me
that unless I should be born of water and
of the Spirit I could not enter into the King-
dom of God. And I would ponder in my
mind, and wonder how it could be, and ask
God in my ignorance to enlighten my un-
derstanding that I might know what to do
to be saved in His Kingdom. He heard and
answered my prayers in His own due time
and way, directing my steps to the place
where His servants first brought the Gospel
into our country. The first time I heard
them, Br. Erastus Snow said that all who
believed in Jesus Christ, and repented of
their sins, forsaking the same, and went
down into the waters and were baptized for
the remission of sins, and had hands laid
upon them by those having authority from
God, for the reception of the Holy Spirit,
should be saved. Then the vail which had
clouded my understanding was rent, and
I could clearly comprehend what the teach-
ings of my mother had reference to, and
what was the first step to be taken that I
might obtain salvation in the Kingdom
of God. I soon got permission of my hus-
band, and was baptized two weeks after I
first heard the Gospel.
    Mothers should always teach their children
such principles as will be for their benefit
both here and here-after. And that the
mothers in Zion may have wisdom to do this
is the prayer of yours truly,	
				A. C. HEDVIG HANSEN.
PLAIN CITY, Jan. 23, 1863.


THE man who does the most has the least
time to talk about what he does.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.
			Brussels, Belgium,
				December 9th, 1872.
	Six weeks and two days have elapsed
since I left the “City of the Saints.” In that
time I have journeyed to New York—crossed
the Atlantic—spent two days in Liverpool—
thence to London—stopped nine days in that
mammoth, city of world wide interest, and
withal, so unsystematically planned, that
when asked how I liked London, I invariably
replied that, were I to shape it to my liking,
I should, in the first place take it to pieces
and straighten out its streets. It is impos-
sible to describe them—in curves, semicirles,
diagonals, and a few in straight lines, but
most of these are so abruptly intersected,
that when you turn your eyes to look in the
distance, the focus of sight is brought to a
sudden standstill. But with all these dis-
crepancies--its fogs and darkness, London is a
grand metropolis, where, after you have
seen very much, you realize that, compara-
tively, you have seen but little. So I felt
when leaving on the evening of November
30th, we—President Smith and party—
took cabs at our hotel, “Cook’s Boarding
House,” opposite the British Meseum,—
then the railroad train to Harwich where we
took steamer and crossed the German ocean
—arrived in Rotterdam in the afternoon of
December 1st—after dining on board and
having our effects very politely examined
by the Custom House officer in the service
of King William, while anchored in the
Maes.
	Rotterdam is a beautiful city—one of
many and large industries. It is alive with
business—full of canals, the smaller ones
used for individual purposes, instead of
teams and wagons, the larger ones for ex-
tensive commerce. In every part of the
city, ships are either anchored or afloat giv-
ing the whole town the appearance of a navy
yard. I was very much interested here by
the way of “sight seeing”—was shown the
house once the dwelling of the celebrated
Erasmus, also a bronze statue of him, in
standing position, on an elevated pedestal,
in a much frequented portion of the city.
	On the evening of the 3rd we went to the
Hague—visited the Queen’s palace, entitled
the “House of the Woods,” situated one and
a half miles from the town, in a beautiful
park—the drive to it is through ranges of
stately forest trees. We were shown through
the lovely dwellings, and invited to inscribe
our names in the Queen’s Register. Much
to our regret, her Majesty happened to be in
town at the time. From the Hague we went
to Amsterdam, stopping by the way at Haar-
lem—saw and heard the world renowned
organ in the “Old Church of Bavon,” con-
taining five thousand metal and two thou-
sand wooden pipes. I much admired its
tones, especially when it most magnificently
imitated a thunder-storm. In its tower, I
penciled my name on an elevation of one
hundred and fifty steps; where I obtained a
fine view of the town and its surroundings.
In Amsterdam we quartered at the “Old
Bible Hotel,'‘ where a large Bible is sta-
tioned in an open position directly above the
public entrance. This city, though much
larger, exhibits, in some respects, the same
characteristics as those of Rotterdam and the
Hague, only more so, that is, so far as ship-
ping is concerned. Ships are made here.
In company with President G. A. Smith and
party I went all through a monstrously large
establishment of this kind in the “Dutch
Marine” or Navy Yard of Amsterdam;
where a new iron monitor was just launched,
and where we saw the ponderous machinery
at work with which the muanufacture is
[next column]
accomplished. It was surprising to see
sheets of solid iron, several inches in thick-
ness, cut like cheese. We visited the
King’s Palace which has a ball-room said to
be the best in Europe—it is one hundred
feet high, one hundred and twenty long and
sixty in breadth. The cemetery is very neat
—instead of raised or erect stones, the
graves are covered with beautifully polished
granite slabs laid prostrate—some of them
very expensively and elaborately orna-
mented.
	From Amsterdam we went to Antwerp,
where we submitted our trunks and valises
to the respectful examination of King
Leopold’s officers of customs: Visited the
great Cathedral of Antwerp—examined
some of Rubens’ celebrated paintings—one
in particular which is considered his master-
piece, entitled “The Descent from The
Cross.” We also visited the “Church of
St. Jaques,” which contains the tomb of
Rubens, over which is a painting by himself,
into which he has introduced a representa-
tion of himself, his two wives, his father and
his son. From Antwerp we came to Brus-
sels, where we arrived on the 7th. To-
morrow we anticipate an omnibus ride to
the field of the “battle of Waterloo,” and
the next day we go to Paris.
	With the exception of a little sea sickness
and a cold, taken on emerging from my
steam-boat recess across the ocean, my
health has been excellent, and, thus far, I
have enjoyed the tour much beyond my
expectations. Whatever I enjoy as a tourist,
and whatever good I may accomplish, is
attributable to the financiering and philan-
throphy of my beloved sisters, the noble
ladies of Utah. This, wherever I am, is
present with me. I wish to be remembered
to them all in love, with a double portion to
those dear young ladies who are honoring
that most important position, “Young Ladies’
Retrenchment Organization.” They are
often in my thoughts, with my heart’s earnest
response—God bless them! Clara Little is
a good, companionable girl and I am very
much at home with our party.
						Eliza R. Snow.


BEGINNINGS.
				—
Dear Exponent:—
	In addressing you to-day, I wish to illus-
trate as clearly as possible, my own position
in connection with the heading I have chosen
for this little article. It is well known that
whatever be the object of our study, the
nature of the mind is such that progress in
the acquisition of knowledge is ever gradual;
and that there must be a beginning. Ele-
mentary subjects and explanations are first
wanted in the pursuit of knowledge of any
kind; for we first take a general view of the
subject to be studied, without entering into
the details and minutiæ of its extent and
formation. We must first comprehend what
a subject is before we can learn to analyze
it; and then in any of the laws and sciences
of human or divine nature, where analysis
is thoroughly understood, a knowledge of
synthesis may be readily attained. It is
but a short time since I first began to
“think.” This may seem a curious state-
ment, but it is true; I have always talked
considerably, but there has been no genuine
“thought” in all I have said. To really
“think,” as I now understand the term, re-
quires exertion, is indeed, a task of which
the young, in many instances, have no realiz-
ing sense. I never read a good article in my
life without feeling at the time, that to have
achieved the author’s success, not thinking
of his or her labor, would be delightful. I
never saw a beautiful picture, or other work


of art, in which the powers of genius and im-
agination were enshrined, without being
inspired with an inclination to imitate the
artist’s skill. And I never listened to the
harmonious sounds of music, either vocal or
instrumental, without being impressed with
a desire to try, and a feeling that I might
myself make like melody. But I have lost
time in that I did not begin at an earlier
ago to improve in these things. As I before
stated, I did not “think” until lately. Now
I know that it is never too late to undertake
the study of any art which one may be in-
clined to learn. What if we have let time
and chances slip by us, does not time still
exist holding out to us brilliant opportunities
for acquiring wisdom? This I know: with
many people much is lost and nothing gained
by brooding in vain regrets over “what
might have been had I known then what I
know now!” If we have learned by experi-
ence that some courses are unwise, we may
begin at once to do better; and if opportuni-
ties for self improvement have fled without 
being employed, we can, if we will, create
others, if not as good, at least the best we
can; and live in the present and for the 
future, never allowing ourselves to become
weary and sorrowful over sad reflections of
the past. It is want of thought that keeps
us from gaining many grand achievements
which might otherwise bring most happy
results. When we begin to “think” there
is little danger of our stopping there. We
may fancy some things which are of little
moment and never amount to anything; but
if we really and rationally begin to “think,”
it will not be long ere we commence to
make some sort of beginnings which will
amount to something more than merely to
have it said, we have lived and died.
	Allow me to say that I think the “Ex-
ponent,” at its beginning made a very fair
“debut,” that it has improved extraordin-
arily since its first appearance, and has 
gained my heartfelt interest, and hopes for 
it a long, bright and useful career.
					Country Woman.


[For the Exponent]
		HOME MISSIONARIES.
				——
	Not long since, being in company with	 
several ladies and gentlemen, where the
subject of home missionaries was introduced,
I was led to admire and rfleect somewhat
upon a remark which was made by an 
elderly lady—“a mother in Israel.” She
said, “I have been a home missionary for
nearly forty years, and I think every mother
in Israel is a home missionary who properly
fills her calling.” I considered the sentence
a just one, and worthy of being recorded;
more especially when we contemplate the
saying of the Lord, Book of Doctrine and
Covenants, page 191, section 43, latter part 
of paragraph 4, and fore part of paragraph
5:	“And if it so be that you labor
all your days in crying repentence unto 
this people, and bring save it be one soul
unto me, how great shall be your joy with
him in the Kingdom of my Father! And
now, if your joy will be great with one soul 
that you have brought unto me, into the
King dom of my Father, how great will be
yourjoy if you shall bring many souls unto
me!” Now, if the joy of an Elder will be so
great over those who have through his in-
fluence been brought into the Kingdom of	
our Father, shall not a mother’s joy far 
exceed, when she enters into the Kingdom
of our Father at the head of her posterity,
whom she has brought forth, and led by
precept and example along with her! More
anon
								E. M.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S AGENCY.
				——
	That, to go to God the Father and ask of Him
a testimony of the truth, and for gifts and
blessings contained in the Gospel, is a divine
right belonging to woman as well as to man,
is clearly evinced in many instances related
in the sacred Scriptures.	In the case
of Hannah, the mother of the prophet
Samuel, when she prayed to the Lord to
give her a son, Eli, the priest, seeing that
her lips moved and that her voice was not
heard, said to her, “Woman how long wilt
thou be drunken with wine?” And Hannah
replied that she was not drunken, but that
she was a woman of a sorrowful heart. And
he said, “The Lord grant thee thy petition.”
And the Lord did hear and answer her
prayer.
	There are many other instances which
might be mentioned. The Shunaemite
woman who sent for the Prophet Elisha to
restore her son to life; and it was done
according to her faith. Also the mother of
Samson of whom it is said, an angel of the
Lord appeared to her and told her she should
have a son that should deliver Israel out of
the hands of the Philistines; telling her
what to do to obtain this great blessing.
She must drink no wine nor strong drink,
neither eat any unclean thing. Men in
our day would think it rather strange for an
angel to appear to their wives without first
appearing to them, but nevertheless, it is
written that women in ancient days received
their dead to life through faith, and enjoyed
the visitation of angels. I would be willing
to be classed with the superstitious and
ignorant to obtain like blessings.
								W. E.


A person’s pride should only dwell in
the principles and not in the manner,
placing nature above everything unworthy,
or that shall lessen dignity or impair honor.
	When St. Paul tells women they must be
obedient to their husbands, he does not re-
lieve husbands of the obligation to make
wives sensible why it is they ought to obey.
There is a corelative duty; and obedience,
when the one part is duly performed, is en-
tire devotion to the instructor, guardian,
and guide.	
	A Brave Wife.—One of the severest
and saddest personal misfortunes created by
our late direful calamity that we have had
to record is the following: On one of the
streets at the south end of our city there
resides a middle-aged man with a wife and
children, who, previous to the fire, were
living happily and faring sumptuously evey
day upon an income arising mainly from
some $300,000 invested in good paying in-
surance stocks. With the calamity all of
this property and source of income were
swept away, leaving him a poor man. It
was a terrible blow. But his loving wife,
though reared in the lap of luxury and un-
used to the perplexities of life, quietly rose
above the wreck and ruin of their worldly
store, disposed of her jewels, and, with such
means as she was able to command, makes
her “debut” as a landlady of a south end
boarding house. The pluck of such a wife
is credit enough for any man to build upon,
and capital enough to float him over the
very tidal wave of misfortune.—“Boston
Herald.”


﻿CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for Woman's Exponent.
[new column]
			NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the Exponent and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10  copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-	-	$13 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-	-	  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 00	-	-	-	  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $1 		-	-	-	-	-	-	  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the Exponent.
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
Z. C. M. I. 
	Retail Dry Goods Department.
We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
riety of our Patrons.
	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated
		SALT LAKE GLOVES.
Children's Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty.
While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics
of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,
Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-
est possible figure. 
			H. B. CLAWSON, Sup't
SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.
	We would respectfully call your attention to the
fact, that we have one of the Largest and best Stocks
of Ladies', Misses' and Children's FURS in Sets, as
also Capes and Collars (separate), that will be found
in this City. Also a large assortment of Fine Shoes
of Philadelphia and California make. 
	The above goods we will sell at the lowest possible
price. 
				DUNFORD & SONS,
					Salt Lake City. 
[next column]
		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		A UTAH LADIES' JOURNAL.
	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.
	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.
	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!"
	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of Woman's Exponent, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.
	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.
	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.
	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In Woman's Exponent a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R. Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the Journal
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.
	Woman's Exponent will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.
	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1 Copy one year, 		$2.00	1 Copy six months,		$1.0[-]
10 Copies one year, 	18.00	10 Copies six months	  2.0[-]
	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Pesidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.
	Address all communications and subscriptions
Publishers Woman's Exponent, Salt Lake City,
Utah.
DR. W. H. GROVES,
						DENTIST,
	Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
			Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DENWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.


Woman's Exponent.
VOL. I.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1873.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES. 

    BRIBERY INVESTIGATING committees are
the prevailing fashion in political circles.
    THE NEW YORK “Herald” writes it “Dis-
creditable Mobilier” instead of Credit Mo-
bilier, and the “Herald” is correct.
    BOSTON REJOICED in thirty days of un-
interrupted sleigh-riding lately as an evi-
dence of the equability and severity of its
winter climate.
    FORTY-ONE newspapers had their birth
in one week, in the United States, this
present year; and thirteen journalistic ven-
tures came to an untimely end in the same
space of time.
    ONE OF the most horrible things lately
related, in an age of horrors, is that on a
trial for murder in St. Louis, the heart of
the woman murdered was taken to the
jury room and shown to the jury.
    JULIAN HAWTHORNE, son of Nathaniel
Hawthorne, the American novelist, shows
hereditary talent, and is the author of a
novel for which, it is said, the Appletons
have paid him $3,000 in manuscript.
    THE DECADING delegates from Montana
and Idaho, Clagett and Merritt, who failed
to be re-elected to Congress, signalized their
last hours in Congress by emulating each
other in the bitterness of their attacks on
Utah.	
    THE MOST severe weather ever experi-
enced in the United States occurred in
Minnesota on the 13th, 14th and 15th of
January last. Dr. Kane on his Polar expe-
dition, it is said, only once met with such
an awful storm.
    NEW YORK continues agitated over the
question of hanging some of. its murderers.
There are over twenty of them in the
Tombs prison, but “a life for a life” appears
to be a law which New York sentimentality
cannot well stomach.
    IT IS now proposed in Boston to have
young women instructed in washing, iron-
ing, cooking, and other practical parts of
housekeeping; but there is a possibility
that so sensible an idea will be strangled
by some strong-minded attempt to change
its character into something of a political
nature.
    SOUTH CAROLINA, by law, allows a hus-
band to strike his wife “three licks with a
switch,” as a Judge of that State styles it,
without being liable to punishment. If Utah
had a law so barbarous on its statute book,
what a howl would be raised concerning it,
and rightly too; but why so silent concerning
South Carolina?
    MR. JACOB BRIGHT has introduced into
the British House of Commons “a bill to
remove the electoral disabilities of women.”
Progressive as the American people are,
there is every prospect that woman suffrage
will be reached in England before it becomes
general in the United States. Even now
women, who are property owners, can vote
at vestry meetings, and in some of the lead-
ing towns in municipal elections.
    THE SOLEMNITY of ancient Palestine is to
be awakened by the shrill scream of railroad
whistles; and “two hours and a half from
Jaffa to Jerusalem” will take the place of
the slow-moving quadrupeds of earlier
[new column]
times. Thus changes come, and the vision
of the prophet who saw the rushing of
“swift beasts of burden” will be verified.
    THE FRANKING privilege has been
abolished, to take effect on July 1st, 1873;
and the post office estimates have been
reduced a million and a half of dollars
already. This is all very well, as far as it
goes, but in view of some other existing
facts, it is like stopping the waste at the
spigot, while the bung-hole is open.
    MR. CLAGETT, the Montana candidate in
Congress, said a short time ago that the
Mormons paraded the Nauvoo Legion in the
streets of Salt Lake City, last general election
in this Territory, and prevented people
voting. Mr. Hooper, delegate from Utah,
very properly denounced the statement as
false, and every resident of Salt Lake City
will sustain the Utah delegate. This is the
sort of “information concerning Utah” which
men like Mr. Clagett furnish to Congress.
    WHILE THE case of the United States
Senator Caldwell, of Kansas, was under in-
vestigation, he being charged with buying
his way to the Senate by bribing the mem-
bers of the Kansas legislature; United States
Senator Pomeroy, of the same State, sought
to secure his re-election by similar corrupt
means, was exposed, arrested, and placed
under heavy bonds to stand his trial for the
crime. And these men fill the place
of mighty patriots of the past!
    WHAT WITH Credit Mobilier investiga-
tions, probing other charges of bribery,
inquiring into the purchase of seats in the
United States Senate, and similar proceed-
ings in Washington, Congress, for some
weeks past, has had to air considerable
political soiled linen, the stench from which
is very offensive to the public nostril at
home, and its appearance is not calculated
to increase respect for our moral purity
abroad.
    ONE OF the most terrible aspects of the
Credit Mobilier bribery investigation, prose-
cuted by two Congressional committees, is
the amount of willful perjury which must have
been already committed. Prominent men
and prominent members of Congress, give
each other the lie, under oath, with a
degree of recklesssness that should  shock
the moral sense of the country. One painful
fact is clear, not only does the Congress of
the United States contain men susceptible
of bribery, but it also contains members who
must have knowingly committed the crime
of perjury, for which, could it be brought
home to the guilty parties, they should not
only be expelled front Congress and from
respectable society, but their term of service
should be transferred from the halls of legis-
lation to the cells of the penitentiary.
    HARVARD HAS taken another step for-
ward. It is proposed to establish, under
the supervision of the college, a series of
examinations for ladies, in which success
will entitle the competitors to certificates
equal to university degrees. Those who
succeed will not be able to write A. B. or A.
M. after their names, but they will be able
to say they have won as high collegiate dis-
tinction. Very good, so far; but if ladies
cannot secure the degree of Bachelor of
Arts, or Master of Arts, why can they not
be dubbed Spinster of Arts and Mistress of
[new column]
Arts? We have no desire to perpetrate a
pun over the latter, although numbers of 
them are mistresses of quite a number of
arts; but it does seem small business for
learned and ponderous bodies, like Harvard,
to concede the plain and simple rights of all
God’s creatures—to cultivate the intellect
and equally to share honors justly won—
in such piece-meal fashion.
    ONE THE 14th and 15th of the present
month the advocates of woman suffrage, in
Oregon and Washington Territory, are to
meet in convention, for the purpose of effect-
ing a permanent organization, encouraging
the formation of auxiliary couuty organiza-
tions, and generally adopting such measures
as may be deemed best for the purpose of
aiding the agitation looking to securing the
suffrage for women. The movement has
made much progress in Oregon, through the
efforts of Mrs. Duniway, editor of the “New
North West,” published at Portland. In-
deed, in this matter, the West is far in
advance of the East, and of New England 
supposed to be the cradle of reforms. 
Wyoming, a western Territory, was the
first place where woman-suffrage was au-
thorized by law; Utah, another western
Territory, came next; and they are yet the
only portions of the Republic where women
enjoy the right of the ballot. Then, too, the
West has three women’s papers, the “New
North West,” of Portland, Oregon; the
“Pioneer,” of San Francisco, California; and
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, of Salt Lake City,
Utah, all flourishing; which is more than
the East can boast of. New England is
evidently falling in the rear, and should
look to it.
    LEGISLATIVE JOKING sometimes becomes 
important. The Nevada legislature, it is 
said, just now, has under consideration a bill 
prohibiting what are called “Peter Funk
lectures,” or lectures by “dead beats,” as
the western phrase expressively has it, and 
proposing to punish newspaper reporters for
“puffing” them. This is a legislative joke;
and it reminds us of another legislative
joke, as we have heard it from a very reliable
source. When the proposition to extend the
elective franchise to women was broached
first in Wyoming legislature, it was consid-
ered a rich joke, and as such passed through 
both branches of the legislature, each con- 
cluding to let the joke pass them, and both
believing the governor of the Territory
would veto it, being satisfied that so huge a
joke would never do to become a law. But the
governor did not veto it, and the women of
that Territory first enjoyed the elective
franchise by statute law. The last Wyom-
ing legislature concluded it would try and .
nullify that joke, and so passed a bill
repealing the act which granted the suffrage 
to women, but governor Campbell interposed
the veto there, and for the good of the
Territory women can still control its elections
when they choose. The legislature of Utah
did not confer the suffrage upon women as a
joke; in fact it was discussed with much
seriousness, several leading ladies of this
city being present as attentive and inter-
ested spectators; but the bill passed, and was
approved by acting governor Mann; and we
enjoy the ballot just as much as if the
measure had passed in the midst of the most
hilarious bursts of laughter.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FAREWELL TO PARIS.

[FROM THE PARIS AMERICAN REGISTER]

	Farewell great Paris, soon I go	
	   Upon the morning train;
	I go where softer breezes blow
	   On land and wat’ry main.

	I’m going now, and as I leave,
	   I take a parting view,
	And see the web of distance weave,
	   That separates from you.

	Your spires that glitter in the sun
	   Above "The Arch of Time,”
	Are disappearing one by one:
	   I hear no church bell chime.
	
	Gay	Paris, beautiful e’en now
	   Bereft of much you boast;
	Tho’ Prus-ia aim’d your pride to bow
	   'Twas Paris hurt you most.

	War demons ’roused in foreign lands
	   Can never wield the power
	As when, by suicidal hands,
 	   Commis ioned to devour—

	Of all the ills of human life
	   That mighty nations cursed;		
	The warfare of internal strife
	   And carnage is the worst.	

	Your ruined Palaces and Halls,
	   Scathed by fraternal hate,
	Are sad mementos—each recalls
	   Your folly and your fate.

	M. Thiers, with wise sagacity,
	   The dire result foresaw
	 lf France, with blind temerity,
	   The battle-ax should draw.

	He with the French Assembly plead,
	   And with Napoleon,
	To change their purpos’d aim to tread
	   The pride of Prussia down.

	He now presides. Will France sustain
	   His policy of peace, 
	Or in a vortex plunge again
	   Where waste and crime increase? 

	Fair, lovely Paris! What shall be
	   Your future, who can tell?
	Your lofty spires, no more l see— 
	   Again I say, Farewell!	
							ELIZA R. SNOW.


F.R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
					——
			4th Ward Assembly Rooms,
					Salt Lake City, Feb. 1st, 1873.
	Faith being the subject to be considered
at the General Retrenchment meeting, after
the usual exercises of singing and prayer,
the reading and acceptance of the minutes
of the last meeting, and also the reading of
the minutes of meetings held in the 11
and 8th Wards, by the “Young Ladies’
Co-operative Retrenchment Associations,”
sister Emeline B. Wells read from the Book
of Doctrine and Covenants, the first lecture
on faith.
	Counselor Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball then
said if she did not understand something
about the subject of the chapter which had
just been read, she had been a very dull
student. Faith was an attribute of the Deity.
It was also an attribute of man, the highest
attribute, by which, earthly things were
linked with those above; it was indeed, the
most elevated attribute mortals could
possess. It should be cultivated; and the
way to cultivate it, was to think, to read, to
reason and to pray. It was possible to abuse
any attribute and to cause it to become
diseased by too constant and fervent use
being made of it. To be strong in body and
strong in mind it was requisite to keep all
the faculties correctly exercised. The dif-
ference between faith and excitement was
manifested by the workings of the true
spirit of the Lord and that of magnetism,
as shown by the power a strong Methodist
revivalist, could have over a congregation.
[new column]
Counselor Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith said
that in a prayer meeting in  Nauvoo, Presi-
dent Joseph Smith once told the people,
they did not yet know how to pray. She
wanted much to have him instruct them,
that she might learn the proper way. It
was not long until he did teach them to
pray in prayer circles, uniting their faith,
and thus increasing the strength and efficacy
of prayer.
	Counselor Mrs. Phebe Woodruff said it
was needful for us to seek knowledge out
of the best books and by talking to each
other. It had been read that by faith the
world was framed. She understood from
that that the Lord and His co-laborers had
gone to work, believing that if such and
such quantities of the different substances
were systematically arranged together,
the world and its inhabitants would be
—and exist; just as an adobie maker has
faith that by putting such and such materials
together and properly working the same, he
can make an adobie.
	Counselor Mrs. Zina D. Young said that
they were all in school. When associated thus
together the best thoughts were brought
forth. As sister Kimball had said, it was
true that the mind might become diseased
by being too much exercised, even by pray-
ing too much and too anxiously. A bow if
always strung would soon lose its elasticity;
so also the mind would become weakened
by being too continually employed.
	Sister Rachel R. Grant said faith was a
gift of God, but that “Faith without works
was dead,” and should be carefully coupled
with good works at all times. It was a
matter of great importance that the young
be taught the principle of faith in its correct
form.
	Mrs. Mary E. Whitt said that it was often
seen that little children would have more
faith than those of more mature years. She
related an incident in which she was healed
by the administration of her little son,
whose perfect and pure faith in the power
and mercies of God had claimed for her the
blessings which he asked in childish sim-
plicity and trust.
	Remarks were made by other sisters,
and meeting adjourned for two weeks; the
subject of  "Faith” to be continued.
			        ——
			HEBRON, Jan. 22nd, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	Our Society was reorganized the 19th of
October, 1872, with Mrs. Esther Pulsipher,
President; and Mrs. Sarah H. Crosby and
Mrs. Salinda Huntsman, Counselors. Our
Society is small, consisting of nineteen
members, and we live somewhat isolated,
being the most south-western settlement in
Utah. Notwithstanding, we desire to be
one with our sisters in our labors of love,
that thereby we may lighten the burdens of
our brethren in helping to roll forth the Lat-
ter-day work. Our means are limited as
yet, but with the blessing of our Heavenly
Father, we intend to increase them by ad-
ding our mites together, to assist the poor
and aid in gathering those who are in
bondage in distant lands, that they with us
may be made free; or to help in any other
wise purpose. At a meeting held last
October, a vote was taken to drop the word
“Female” from the name of our Society,
which was unanimously sustained. Your
very valuable paper is highly esteemed by
us, and is read with interest. We feel that
it will do much good in vindicating the
cause of the so-styled “Down-trodden wo-
men of Utah.” May Heaven bless the
Editor and all others who help to promote
the cause of truth,
		MRS. ANN PULSIPHER, Secretary.
[new column]
				LEHI, Utah County,
				  January 25th, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONANT:—
	The Lehi Relief Society was organized
in October of 1868, with Mrs. Sarah C.
Evans, President; Martha P. Thomas and
Barbary A. Evans, Counselors; Rebecca
Standring, Secretary; and Mary Ann Davis,
Treasurer.
	During the four years, from October, 1868,
to October 1872, we received in donations
six hundred and twenty dollarsand seventy-
five cents; and disbursed to the poor four
hundred and thirty dollars. We own one
share—one hundred dollars—in the Provo
woolen factory; two shares—fifty dollars—
in the Co-operative store; have donated to
the P. E. Fund twenty-five dollars; to mis-
sionaries seventy-five dollars, and have a
balance on hand, in stock and other property,
of one hundred and twenty-three dollars.
We are still prospering, and still feel to
thank God that we are enabled to assist
somewhat in blessing His poor, and causing
them to rejoice.
	At a meeting held December 12th, 1872,
a unanimous vote was taken to drop the
word “Female” from the name of the
Society.		
	Wishing you much success in your noble
efforts to sustain the truth and increase
intelligence,
	  	   I am respectfully yours, 
		     REBECCA STANDRING Sec’y.
				—
	Mrs. Zina D. Young, Mrs Elizabeth How-
ard and Miss Louise L. Greene by special
invitation, were present at the monthly
meeting of the Relief Society of sugar House
Ward, held Wednesday, the 5th inst., at
the residence of President Mrs. Sarah Gibson.
The liberal donations brought in, the excel-
lent reports given by the Teachers, and the
devout sentiments expressed at that meet-
ing, as well as in the minutes of a former
one, forcibly evinced the satisfactory truth,
that the spirit of oneness and integrity
prevail to a very great extent among the
sisters of that Ward.	
				  —
	The Relief Society of Ogden held a
meeting and sewing circle, Jan. 30th, 1873.
A large number of the sisters met, and a
good spirit was manifested by all present;
with a great desire to do all they can to
alleviate the sufferings of those that are
needy. We have been making exertions to
provide those that came in last fall with
bedding suitable to the inclemency of the
season, so that none need suffer  I feel that
as sisters and helpers in the Kingdom of
God we have a great duty to perform, and if
we fail in that duty, we shall fail to receive
that great reward which awaits the dutiful
in the future. The sisters all seem anxious
to assist our President, J. S. Richards, who
sets an example worthy for all to follow, by
her words of kindness and deeds of charity.
					  A. M. FRODSHAM.


﻿HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
				——
			HOME DRESS.
				——
	WELL-managing housewives are already
considering their Spring sewing. Among
the first things necessary are the home
dresses. For home wear, calico retains its
supremacy. The most desirable is the Eng-
lish, which is a yard wide and can be bought
for 20 cents. It is firm and close in texture
and of patterns which commend themselves
both in color and beauty. Unlike our
American prints, they do not ape the French,
but have a character quite their own. The
prevailing tint is generally brown or purple,


in slender sprigs or geometrical patterns.
That in black and white is extremely pretty,
and washes admirably. French calico is
always desirable. It comes in beautiful de-
signs—stripes in colors harmoniously min- 
gled or in dark grounds, black, brown or 
wood tints, interspersed with bright bou-
quets and festooned with vines. They are
dressy, and, coquettishly made, make a very
becoming morning toilette. They cost from
25 to 50 cents a yard and are a yard wide.
American calicos we find now at ante-war
prices. They are constantly improving in
designs, but not in texture. They are so
cheap, however, that they can be often
I changed, if one does not take the making
into consideration.
	It is not in good taste to ornament calico
dresses elaborately. The most popular style
is the loose Gabrielle. The sleeves are
made coat—tapering closely to the wrist.
Oxydized buttons are very suitable, or bril-
liant pearl, medium size. We doubt
whether any style of calico dress can ever
rival the blouse, fitting easily and loosely,
and full skirt with gored front. This is
becoming to most figures.—Moore’s “Rural
New Yorker.”

WATERPROOFING.—A writer in the Lon-
don “Illustrated News” says: By the way,
touching waterproofs, I think I can give
travelers a valuable hint or two. For many
years I have worn India-rubber waterproofs;
but I will buy no more, for I have learned
that good Scottish tweed can be made per-
fectly impervious to rain, and, moreover, I
have learned how to make it so; and for the
benefit of my readers, I will here give the
recipe: In a bucket of soft water, put a half
a pound of sugar of lead and half a pound of
powdered alum; stir this at intervals until
it becomes clear; then pour it off into another
bucket, and put the garment therein, and
let it be in for twenty-four hours; then hang
it up to dry, without wringing it. Two of
my party (a lady and gentleman) have worn
garments thus treated in the wildest storm
of wind and rain, without getting wet. The
rain hangs upon the cloth in globules. In
short, they are really waterproof. The
gentleman walked, a fortnight ago, nine
miles in a storm of rain and wind such as
you purely see in the South, and when he
slipped off his overcoat, his underclothes
were as dry as when he put them on. This
is, I think, a secret worth knowing; for
cloth, if it can be made to keep out wet, is
in every way better than what we know as
waterproofs.

	Blanc Mange.—Four tablespoonfulls,
or three ounces, of corn-starch to one quart
of milk. Disolve the corn in some of the
milk. Put into the remainder of the miik,
four ounces of sugar, a little salt, a piece of
lemon rind, or cinnamon stick, and heat to
near boiling. Then add the mixed corn,
and boil (stirring it briskly) four minutes:
take out the rind, and pour into a mould or
cup, and let it stand until cold. When cold
and turned out, pour round it any kind of
stewed or preserved fruit, or a sauce of milk
and sugar.

	Rennet.—A more tender and delicate
curd than is produced by the common rennet
is said to be made with the rough coats
which line the gizzards of turkeys and
fowls. Take a number of them, clean from
them the pebbles they contain, rub well with
salt and hang them to dry. When to be
used, break off some bits of the skin and
pour on it some boiling water; in a few
hours the liquor is ready for use, and is to
be used the same as other rennet.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.
				—
			Genoa, Italy, Dec. 29, 1872.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	Dear Lula:
	I attended the London Conference of the
Saints, with much satisfaction. ln company
with Mrs. Thompson, Miss Clara Little and
Elder Junius F. Wells, who kindly proffered
to escort us, I spent one day in making calls
among the Saints. I told brother Wells
that I wished to see the poorest Saints in
London. He said he would take us
to those in lowest circumstances of any
in the city and then to those who possessed
the most of this world’s goods; although, he
said, outside the city are some much more
destitute than those within onr reach.
	All whom we visited seemed cheerful
and happy. We found one family, in particu-
lar, destitute enough, in an upper room,
reached by a dark, narrow, winding stair-
way, who apparently had to “work their
lives out, to keep life in.” In a small room
that I could nearly reach across, the mother
and two daughters were busy at their “an-
nual” employment, with scissors, paste,
guilt trimmings, pastboard, wire, and rib-
bons, making boxes of all fanciful forms and
sizes, for a wealthy merchant who furnished
the materials, and paid them at  very low
figure for their work. We spent the even-
ing at brother Rowe’s where we were
genteelly entertained and had not only the
pleasure of the society of our Palestine
tourists, but of a goodly number of mission-
aries from Utah.
	At Rotterdam we put, up at the “Bath
Hotel,” a commodious building—evey thing
in excellent order, and scrupulously clean.
Cleanliness seems to be a characteristic
with hotels in Holland; and, admitting
industry to be promotive of neatness, it
must also be a national characteristic. No
sensible, candid person can visit this
country without according to the people
the credit of industry, and indomitable per-
severance. Most people think they do "well
to cultivate the ground after it is made, but
the Hollanders make much of the ground
they cultivate, and when made and culti-
vated, it requires constant labor and expense
to protect it from inundation. They must,
as a matter of course, be honest, they have
not time to be otherwise.
	The wise policy of the Dutch, brings
wealth: they import raw material of every
kind—manufacture it, and export it when
manufactured. For instance, they purchase
American lard, and then, after multiplying
its value, in their factories, sell it to Amer-
icans, in the form of candles. I noticed
women wearing ornaments of gold on their
heads which were very conspicuous—some
of the size of a silver dollar and, some much
larger—and was informed that those ladies
were wives of wealthy farmers, and that
they wore those ornaments to represent
their wealth.
	I could not pass over this very interesting,
small portion of the world, in silence; but in
writing to the “Deseret News,” my brother
has said so much about Holland, its inhabit-
ants, shipping, canals, etc, I shall not
attempt description. Suffice it to say, I
enjoyed my visit in that kingdom, immensly
—Rotterdam, the Hague Haarlem and
Amsterdam, from which we returned to
Rotterdam en route to Antwerp in Belgium
—thence to Brussels, celebrated for its
carpets and lace, which we saw and admired,
from which place we visited the battle-field
of Waterloo, and the next day left Belgium
en route for Paris, where, including one day’s
visit to Versailles, we spent five days very
pleasantly.
[new column]
	Rain in unusual quantities has been the
order of the day overhead, and under foot
from the time we landed in Liverpool until
now, with few exceptions. Large tracts of
cultivated land, with fencing nearly covered,
and in many instances, houses entirely sur-
rounded with water, sometimes on one side
of the railroad, at other times on both, have
presented ocean scenes rather than those of
“terra firma.” But with all the rains and
floods, we have experienced but little incon-
venience—the most was in coming from
Nice to this place—overflow of water had
made breaches in the track, and instead of
one day we were two days on the way,
distance one hundred and twenty-six miles.
We have met with no other detention.
Some of our party estimated the length of
all the tunnels in the above distance, to be
at least, twenty miles. Whoever projected
a railroad in this Alpine country is worthy of
a gold statue, for his courage and intrepidity.
It is astonishing to think of the amount of
labor and expense requisite for the accom-
plishment of this Herculean project. Most
of these tunnels are cut through solid rock,
and permanently arched, a protection against
mountain torrents flowing into the Mediter-
ranean, the shores of which, the railroad
follows from Marseilles to Genoa, except
when tunneled, or cut through the many
spurs of the Alps projecting into the sea.
	Compared with those of England, America
may boast the long stretch of her roads, but,
so far as work and means are concerned,
Americans should doff hats in presence of
this Herculean enterprize, of suthern
France and northern Italy.
	To-morrow morning we leave for Turin.
						Eliza R. Snow.


[Written for the Exponent.
			BACHELORS.
				——
	“Gentlemen” (?) say they can’t afford to
marry, for fear the extravagances of women
would work their financial ruin. All bosh!
The meanest kind of humbuggery! Watch
the man that makes this excuse, and you
will find him intensly selfish, wrapped up
in self, lavishing every cent he possesses on
self, hugging himself and caring for no one
in the world but himself. Follow the
history of his career, from youth to middle
age; see if he ever did one noble action.
The record of his life will be self. In youth
he will whine over the extravagance of the
girls, or their follies, or whatever the
fashionable outcry happens to be against
women. In middle age he makes it his
business to sneer at women, but begins to
think he had better marry, that he may
have somebody to nurse him in sickness,
who must bear with his ill humor and in-
consistencies. In old age—pity any one
who has the trouble of him! In his secret
soul he wishes he had married when young,
would give all he is worth if he had a wife
to torment. The envy and bitterness of his
poor old soul finally takes him out of this
state of existence, and eveybody who has
had to put up with his selfish whims is
thankful that he has gone. Such individuals
are looked upon with astonishment, by
happy husbands and fathers, who wonder
why they never marry and think the poor
old bachelor a great fool to live so long with-
out wife and children. Those who have
had anything to do with old bachelors, will
know this is no fanciful sketch.
				A Married Woman.


﻿Missouri has taken a step in advance,
by the introduction of a bill in its legislature
making seduction a crime. 	will the bill
become law? It should.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers Woman’s Exponent,
								Salt	Lake City, Utah.
		SALT LAKE CITY, FEBRUARY 15,1873.


SPLINTERS.
	Two of the pension agencies of this
country are managed by women...........Iowa
laws now make no distinction between hus-
band and wife in their control over their
own property.......An old man in Caldwell,
who was not strong minded himself, took
with him his better half, when he went to
vote, to see that he was not coaxed into
voting the Democratic ticket.......Milan is
cheered by the singing of Brignoli.......The
“Pall Mall Gazette” is reported to have paid
Hepworth Dixon one farthing on his suit
for libel......The Irish orator, Father Burke,
is sick......A school at Geneva, R. I., was
lately broken up by a lively bull-dog......An
old lady, nearly eighty years of age, recently
hanged herself in Kentucky. It was a pity,
having lived so long to leave such an exam-
ple on record......Lexington, Ky., claims
the largest conservatory in this country......
It is suggested that babies taken to theatres
should be checked at the door and hung up
like umbrellas; would poorly dressed ones
be liable to get exchanged for those of better
appearance, as umbrellas frequently do?......
Stanley has been given a brilliant banquet
at Washington......Senator Sumner is still
feeble, though now able to sit up......Jenny
Lind lately sang in the American chapel at
Florence......Ben Wade’s daughter-- if he
has one—is about to marry a carpenter......
The Kansas Legislature has four women
clerks......Emerson, with his daughter Ellen,
has left Rome for Egypt......A Methodist
minister in Massachusetts being absent on
Sunday, his wife performed the pulpit
services satisfactorily to the people and,
doubtless, to herself......More than 25,000
persons viewed the remains of Napoleon
lying in state, though none, it was stated,
but particular friends of the family and dis-
tinguished representatives......A hurricane
from the north, recently vistied Minnesota,
lasting more than two days, freezing nearly
one hundred persons to death, and block-
ading all the railroads and common roads
with huge banks of snow.......Boston is said
to claim in May or Pierce its first bachelor
chief magistrate.....Lord Edward Lytton
Bulwer, whose death occurred on the 18th
of January, was sixty-seven years old......
Perteet, a colored wife murderer of Chicago,
is sentenced to be hanged.....It was a girl
of the period who said, when going to be
married, she took a “spoony” who had no
mind of his own that she might always have
her own way; and it was the Bible he threw
at and struck her with the other evening,
because his supper wasn’t ready when he
came home.......A lady writer pronounces
fashion at a standstill, and says everything
seems to be a modification of last year’s
style. If fashion has really run the full
length of her chain she can do no better
perhaps, than to retrace her steps back as
she first trod them.......The fact of Mrs. N.
B, Gardiner being recognized as a voter in
the 9th Ward of Detroit, Michigan, is said
to have caused considerable excitement
thereabouts......In some of the Eastern
schools and seminaries, much just indigna-
tion has been aroused by the discovery that
opium venders are in the habit of sending
opium surreptitiously prepared iu candy and
lozenges into the schools.......Mrs. Bloomer,
who has been accused of having pledged
allegiance to the Woodhull, denies the charge
openly.......The first organized county dairy
market in the United States, was commenced
at Little Falls, New York......Nova Scotia
and New Brunswick are to be connected by
a canal....A letter carrier in Cleveland,
Ohio, received, on New Year’s day, $627:75.
......Mrs. Livermore says that five-sixths of
[new column]
the applications for divorce come from
couples who have not been married over
five or six years; if they tide over that
period they generally keep on to the end.
......George Francis Train has been a
prisoner in thirteen jails......A lady at
Council Bluffs who lighted her fire with
kerosene, leaves a husband and one child.
......There are seven woolen mills in Oregon
which used 4,191,000 pounds of wool last
year......Parson Brownlow has written the
inscription for bis tombstone......In 1848,
Rev. Miles Grant, the adventist, gave away
a fine property in Connecticut, thinking the
final day was at hand, and has lately been
preaching in the same place......Ffty years
ago, blue eyes for ladies were the rage in
America; then black and dark brown ones
were considered the most attractive, and
since, gray ones have taken the place for
beauty; but now it matters little what the
color of the eyes are so the hair is flaxen
and the face has its proper amount of paint
......Illinois is nearly free from debt.


EXCITEMENT CONCERNING UTAH.
			  —
	﻿The periodical excitement in regard to Utah
is being worked up in the East. Scarcely a lead-
ing journal is now received from that part of the
United States that does not contain something
sensational from Washington, relative to what
is going to be done with Utah. At one time
ten thousand troops are to be sent here imme-
diatly; another time, petitions are stated to
have been received from the “Gentiles” of this
Territory, asking assistance; next, it is averred
Congress will pass some sweeping measure to
solve the “Mormon problem;” and then it is
announced that President Grant has deter-
mined to have the law enforced in Utah if it
requires the entire force of troops in the United
States to do it.
	While reading all this we involuntary ask
what place is the subject of so much comment?
And can scarcely realize that our moderately
quiet home, where, there seems nothing to
attract such attention, can be the object of all
the excitement we read of. But the fact forces
itself upon us, that there are a few men—bad
men, we may say; unscrupulous men, who aim
at carrying out the destructive policy of “rule
or ruin” who are the authors or circulators of
nearly all the falsehoods published concerning
Utah. They assert that the “Gentiles” are re-
stricted in their constitutional rights in this
Territory, but they fail to point to a single illus-
tration; they allege that all elective offices in
the Territory are tilled by candidates of the
“Mormons,” conveying the impression that
the elections are not fairly conducted, but sup-
pressing the fact that the Mormons, being in
the majority of eight to one, will naturally do
as people do elsewhere, elect their candidates
peacefully and lawfully; they demand that the
elective franchise be taken from the women of
Utah, because those women, understanding
them and their purposes, refuse to be led by
them or be their dupes; and they publicly
charge immorality upon the people of Utah,
while privately acknowledging that the Mor-
[new column]
mons are the most moral people they have
ever lived among.
	The astonishing part of the matter is, that
the people of the Eastern States, having had
such calumnies refuted so often, can be
deceived by them again. Why, it is only a
couple of days since we read a telegram from
Washington, in the “Ogden Junction,” which
reminded us of the sensational stories which
used to be sent broadcast over the world, of
President Young opening all the letters sent
from Utah, to see that no person told the truth
concerning it; and of the hairbreadth escapes
which some people had in fleeing from “the
horrors of Mormondom.” Few could be found
now to believe such trash, but a leading paper
published in Washington, largely owned by
Senator Harlan—who is a special favorite of
Dr. Newman—actually says that the “Mor-
mons” have “sought to exclude from their midst
all who fail to conform to the Mormon faith,
and practice; a system of persecution that
ought to have been rebuked long since!” It is
not supposed that this friend of Dr. Newman,
who personally had the privilege of denouncing
"Mormonism” in the large Tabernacle in this
city, did not know any better than this, for
such ignorance would be inexcusable; but he
does not hesitate to violate truth and trample
honesty in the mire, that he may deceive those
who are no better informed than to believe
him, that bitter feelings may be excited against
a community whose industry, temperance,
probity, sincerity and virtue are a standing
reproach against the hypocrisy and prominent
vices of the age. But while the old adage may
be correct, that a falsehood will travel twice
round the earth while truth is putting on its
boots, this should also be remembered, that
“Truth crushed to earth will rise again,”
for it is sustained by an inherent power which
cannot alway be overcome.


LEGAL INCONSISTENCY. 
	
	Some of the lawyers of this city—twenty-six,
indeed—have signed a document, published last
week in the “Salt Lake Herald,” which is at
once an accusation against the Territory and a
memorial to Congress, setting forth some of the
usual charges against the people of Utah which
ought to be too stale now to be rewarmed and
served up again for the thousandth time, by
these gentlemen. The “Herald” has been
handling the document without gloves, and
showing in plain terms its unfairness, weak- 
ness, unjust statements and bitter partisanship;
but one portion of it demands notice by the
EXPONENT. It covertly attacks the right of the
women of Utah to the elective franchise, by
attacking the law conferring the franchise upon
them:  We say covertly, and might add that
the entire document is gotten up in such style,
is not straightforward, nor honorable, but reads
more like the plea of a pettifogger in one of the
lower courts than a composition such as would
be expected from twenty-six individuals who
are entitled by law and usage to be styled
“learned gentlemen.” The document submits
“that the act of February 12th, 1870, prostitutes
the right of suffrage by conferring it upon an
alien woman without even qualification of time
of residence.” The simplest and most complete
way of refuting this is by quoting the act itself,
which being short, we here append in full:
				AN ACT.
Conferring upon women the elective franchise.
	(Approved February 12, 1870.)
	Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and
Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Utah:
That every woman of the age of twenty-one
years who has resided in this Territory six
months next preceding any general election,


born; or naturalized in the United States, or
who is the wife, widow, or daughter of a native-
born or naturalized citizen of the United States,
shall be entitled to vote at any election in this
Territory.
	Sec. 2. All laws or parts of laws conflicting
with this Act are hereby repealed.
	The act is so plain that it seems impos-
sible any one would attempt to dispute the fact
that it convicts these gentlemen of willful and
deliberate misstatements, with intent to de-
ceive.
	In looking over the names we note some who
were at one time very anxious that the women
of Utah should possess the elective franchise.
They were then, as they are now, aspirants for
notoriety and power; and they imagined that
women were weak, pliable beings, who could
not withstand their wonderfully eloquent
sophistries, but would rush to the polls enthusi-
astically determined to give these wordy
champions the desired elevation to office and
emoluments. But when the women of Utah
received the elective franchise, it was speedily
apparent that they could think and act for
themselves, and that they would vote for the
candidates whom they believed most suitable;
and they actually did vote for the men who had
conferred upon them the legal right to vote.
Then came a change with these before-time
self-proclaimed champion of the  "down-trod-
den women of Utah.” They found they had
made a mistake, and reckoned without suffi-
cient acquaintance with independent woman-
nature; and they have since been more loudly
urgent that Congress should step forward and
annul the Territorial statute than they ever
were that the women of Utah should receive
the elective franchise.
	As it is always well to know our friends, and
as some of our readers or their husbands, fathers,
or sons, may, unfortunately, have occasion to
require the services of a lawyer, we append the
names of the twenty-six who urge upon Con-
gress legislation inimical, to Utah, and the
taking from the women of Utah the right of
suffrage.
	J. B. Bosborough,		R. H. Robertson
	D. Cooper,			C. W. Bennett,
	Wm. Haydon,		C. K.Gilchrist,
	Frank Tilford,			C. H. Morgan
	D. J. Toohy,			Sol. P. McCurdy,
	E. P. Johnson,		J. N. H. Patcick,
	Wm. Hyndman,		Wm. P. Appleby,
	James M. Carter,		M. Kirkpatrick,
	Thomas Marshall,		Jno. R. McBride,
	Jonathan C. Royle,	Warren Earll,
	Wm. C. Hall,			George E. Whitney,
	Jas. G. Spratt,			Wells Spicer,
	W.W. Gee,			R. N. Baskin.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.				141


HOME	AFFAIRS.
 				      — 
	There is some excitement in the East con-
cerning Utah, but the people here seem un-
affected by the contagion.	
	A Correspondent in Alta, Little Cotton-
wood, informs us that for several weeks her
bedroom has been perfectly dark, from the win-
dows being under an enormous snow drift.
	Attention is again respectfully called to
the terms of clubs on the last page; with a hope
that the friends of the Exponent will continue
to use their endeavors in behalf of the paper.
	Mrs. Willmarth East, as local Agent
for the EXPONENT, is on hand to receive sub-
scriptions for the same, wherever it may be
more convenient for subscribers to see her
than the Editor or general Agent.
	The latest news from President Smith and
the Palestine party, among whom is Sister
Snow, reports them in Italy enjoying good


health. President Albert Carrington, of the
European Mission, was about to join them.
	Encouragement is offered to the Exponent
in many instances from friends whose judge-
ment and candor, as well as their open hearted-
ness we esteem very highly, and we are happy
in acknowledging our obligations and in tender-
ing our thanks for the same.
	A large number of patrons of the Expo-
nent, who subscribed for six months, have not
renewed their subscriptions, which expired
some time ago. Will they please renew im-
mediately, or we shall be compelled to stop
forwarding their papers?
	The number of restless and bad men, that
are now on the streets of Salt Lake city at
night, render it necessary that ladies should be
careful how they travel the streets after dark,
unless accompanied by a male protector. Time
was it was not so, but changes have occurred.
	That terrible disease, smallpox, has lately
visited a few of the wards of this city and some
of the settlements of the Territory, especially
in Morgan County. In regard to this as to
other diseases which spread infection easily, a
few facts should be more widely known than
they are. Woolen clothes will carry contagion
more readily than cotton, and cotton even
more readily than linen. The harder the
thread of which any fabric is woven and the
closer the texture, it is the, less likely to carry
infection. Cleanliness should characterize
every dwelling at all times, but double care
should be taken where there is danger from
contagious diseases. In such cases disinfect-
ants, such as chloride of lime, should be kept
in the house to be used as occasion might require;
while a little vinegar sprinkled around in the
room where a patient is suffering, will be found
valuable. To these precautions should be added
the avoidance of undue fear or excitement, and
the use of every precautionary measure to
prevent the spread of infection.
----
﻿health. President Albert Carrington, of the
European Mission, was about to join them.
	Encouragement is offered to the Exponent
in many instances from friends whose judge-
ment and candor, as well as their open hearted-
ness we esteem very highly, and we are happy
in acknowledging our obligations and in tender-
ing our thanks for the same.
	A large number of patrons of the Expo-
nent, who subscribed for six months, have not
renewed their subscriptions, which expired
some time ago. Will they please renew im-
mediately, or we shall be compelled to stop
forwarding their papers?
	The number of restless and bad men, that
are now on the streets of Salt Lake city at
night, render it necessary that ladies should be
careful how they travel the streets after dark,
unless accompanied by a male protector. Time
was it was not so, but changes have occurred.
	That terrible disease, smallpox, has lately
visited a few of the wards of this city and some
of the settlements of the Territory, especially
in Morgan County. In regard to this as to
other diseases which spread infection easily, a
few facts should be more widely known than
they are. Woolen clothes will carry contagion
more readily than cotton, and cotton even
more readily than linen. The harder the
thread of which any fabric is woven and the
closer the texture, it is the, less likely to carry
infection. Cleanliness should characterize
every dwelling at all times, but double care
should be taken where there is danger from
contagious diseases. In such cases disinfect-
ants, such as chloride of lime, should be kept
in the house to be used as occasion might require;
while a little vinegar sprinkled around in the
room where a patient is suffering, will be found
valuable. To these precautions should be added
the avoidance of undue fear or excitement, and
the use of every precautionary measure to
prevent the spread of infection.
----
﻿health. President Albert Carrington, of the
European Mission, was about to join them.
	Encouragement is offered to the Exponent
in many instances from friends whose judge-
ment and candor, as well as their open hearted-
ness we esteem very highly, and we are happy
in acknowledging our obligations and in tender-
ing our thanks for the same.
	A large number of patrons of the Expo-
nent, who subscribed for six months, have not
renewed their subscriptions, which expired
some time ago. Will they please renew im-
mediately, or we shall be compelled to stop
forwarding their papers?
	The number of restless and bad men, that
are now on the streets of Salt Lake city at
night, render it necessary that ladies should be
careful how they travel the streets after dark,
unless accompanied by a male protector. Time
was it was not so, but changes have occurred.
	That terrible disease, smallpox, has lately
visited a few of the wards of this city and some
of the settlements of the Territory, especially
in Morgan County. In regard to this as to
other diseases which spread infection easily, a
few facts should be more widely known than
they are. Woolen clothes will carry contagion
more readily than cotton, and cotton even
more readily than linen. The harder the
thread of which any fabric is woven and the
closer the texture, it is then less likely to carry
infection. Cleanliness should characterize
every dwelling at all times, but double care
should be taken where there is danger from
contagious diseases. In such cases disinfect-
ants, such as chloride of lime, should be kept
in the house to be used as occasion might require;
while a little vinegar sprinkled around in the
room where a patient is suffering, will be found
valuable. To these precautions should be added
the avoidance of undue fear or excitement, and
the use of every precautionary measure to
prevent the spread of infection.


﻿A TEACHER’S STORY.

	“When I was on a mission in Scotland,”
said he, “I one day picked up a piece of a
newspaper, which contained a story of a
great king, of olden times, when the kings
of the earth used to keep ‘fools’ to make
sport for them. This king once gave his
staff to his fool saying to him as he did so,
'Take this staff and keep it until you find a
greater fool than yourself, then give it to
him.’ The fool took the staff and went
his way, and in the course of time the king
was taken very sick. He was, indeed 'sick
unto death and when he knew that he
must die, he sent for his fool to come to him
that he might bid him a final farewell.
When the fool appeared before him, the
king told him he was going a long journey
into an unknown land, from whence he
should never return. The fool then asked
his master how he was going. The king
said he did not know. The fool inquired
how the king would be supported in the
new home he was going to, where he should
remain forever, what provisions had been
made for his journey and his stay. The
king answered, none, and that he knew not
anything concerning the way or the place.
'Then,’ said the fool, ‘take this staff—for in
all my life, I have not been guilty of things
as foolish as these.’ ”
	“Now,” continued the teacher, “let us
not be worse than the fool; but let us day by
day make some wise preparations for that
long journey, which all must take, and that
now home which all must enter.”


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.
			—
	THE new directory of Des Moines indicates
a population of 15,000.
	THE Omaha, Neb. “Dispatch" is dead. It
run the race with dispatch.
	A SOLDIER'S monument is to be erected at
Dubuque, and the war graves then fenced.
	THE HUDSON river ice crop is estimated at
a million and a half tons, and was all to be
gathered by the 1st of February.
	McPherson, the county seat of McPher-
son, contains six houses and a newspaper—
the “Messenger.”
	A LIVE dog arrived in Lansing in a
United States mail bag on the 24th ult., as a
Christmas present for the postmaster.
	FOR the Centennial of American Indepen-
dence, Philadelphia will erect a building
that will cover fifty acres of ground.
	THE greatest mass of solid iron in the world
is the great Iron Mountain in Missouri. It
is three hundred and fifty feet high, and
two miles in circuit.
	THE statistical tables of England show that
less than one-third of the marriageable
women of that country were living in mar-
riage at the time of the last census.
	THE New York “Herald” says, the crime
of outraging female chastity in the South
appears to be especially the province of the
liberated negro.
	CORNELIUS Miles of Appanoose county,
took up his ashes, set them against the
house, and with his family went a visiting.
When he returned his home was gone.
	SERVANT girls are scarce in Topeka, Kan-
sas, and will continue to be so, says the
“Commonwealth,” as long as wives main-
tain prejudice against good-looking help.
	CEDAR Rapids gets the State Presbyterian
college for $100,000. Two men give be-
sides $25,000 each for endowment. It will
open next September.
	THE greatest cave in the world is the
Mammoth Cave, in Kentucky, where one
can make a voyage on the waters of a
subterrannean river, and catch fish without
eyes.
	THE Rev. John Tecumseh Jones, an in-
dustrious, economical Indian, of the Ottawa
tribe, died lately, and left his whole estate,
$60,000, to the Baptists in the State of Kan-
sas, for the education of ministers.
	AT a Georgia revival meeting, they search
all applicants for admission to the “mour-
ner’s bench,” and the proceeds, in the shape
of bowie knives and revolvers, are raffled off
at the close of the services, for the benefit of
the missionary fund. 
	A WICHITA man was found carrying
concealed about his person two navy revol-
vers, three pocket pistols, two billies, some
brass knuckles, an air gun and a sword cane.
He said he was going on the plains to fight
Indians, but the Cadi sent him to fight the
vivacious flea and enterprising bed bug in
the calaboose.
	Brain work costs more food than hand
work. According to careful estimates and
analyses of excretions, three hours of hard
study wear out the body more than a whole
day of severe physical labor. Another evi-
dence of brain work is obtained from the
fact that though the brain is only one for-
tieth the weight of the body it receives
about one-fifth of all the blood sent by the
heart into the system.


﻿If the whole world should agree to speak
nothing but the truth, what an abridgement
it would make of speech.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A CHAPTER IN THE LIFE OF NAOMA.

	Naoma was the daughter of———of Ro-
chester, New York, where some of her
family still reside. She married. Her
husband was a moral man, a skillful me-
chanic, and a good financier; she an indus-
trious, frugal, and loving wife. A few short
years of labor and love, crowned with the
blessing of home, with all its endearing sur-
roundings and appertunances, caused her
heart to swell with uncontrollable joy as she
contemplated the haven of domestic bliss
in which she might now repose.
	But a missionary came. He said, “My
friends, I come to you in the name of my
Master, to offer you a commission to labor in
a the vineyard of the Lord. But know that
the Alter of sacrifice accompanies it—that
you will be required to sacrifice all that you
now hold dear. The conditions imply that
you, of your own free will, give yourselves,
your affections, your time, your all to Him
to whom all persons and all things rightfully
belong."
	They accepted the commision with its
conditions, laid their friends and their pos-
sessions on the alter, and journeyed to Kirt-
land, Ohio, where a few who had accepted
the same commission, had preceded them.
Freely they had received, freely they must
give. God was no respecter of persons; this
commission must be offered to all people,
The harvest was great and the laborers few.
Naoma’s husband must take a mission to
Europe. She must do the best she could in
a little rented house, with three little
mouths to fill, six little feet to shoe, and all
the etceteras thereunto belonging. No
matter. She had a light heart and a ready
hand; her husband was on duty, he would
honor his commission, and God would bless
his labors. Her duties would be made light;
they would be happy. And they were
happy, as their letters filled with affection,
confidence, and good cheer constantly testi-
tied.
	Years sped swiftly by, and sacrifice was
almost forgotten in the joys of the return.
But once enlisted, the armor must not be
laid off; sin must be combatted at home and
abroad. A mission to the New England
States came. Their neighbors did not like
their commission.
	Missouri would not be told that, if she
sinned, the hand of an avenging God would
be stretched out over her. These commis-
sioners were driven into Illinois.
	With an increased family, increased
poverty, and decreased bodily health, our
heroine was here. Her wifely confidence,
motherly devotion, and Christian resignation,
were subjects of remark and admiration for
her acquaintances. The light which they
had received, must not be hid. The com-
mission must be held up here. The world
must be reproved for sin, and warned of a
judgment to come.
	Naoma’s husband must fill another mission
among the European nations. The peaceful
trust that pervaded her bosom, made the
little log-cabin with its shake floor, in
which she and her sick children were left,
a kind of paradise to her; she could make the
rough places smooth for his sake, and the
cause they had espoused.
	Again the husband returned. He erected
a commodious dwelling, which they soon
filled with home comforts. The blessed
reunion had almost removed the traces of
anxious care that were becoming visible on
Naoma’s countenance. She thanked God
that he had enabled her, if not joyfully,
uncomplainingly, to take the spoiling of her 
goods, to endure the scoffs of friends, and
breast the storms of adversity.
	She felt that she had passed through the
furnace of affliction, and no more could be
required of woman.
	Poor Naoma, she knew not all. The
dregs of her cup were not yet drained. Her
husband—he to whom she could ever trust-
ingly confide any thoughts, and who had
ever thus trustingly confided in her, became
suddenly silent and thoughtful. His steps
became heavier and his head more bowed. If
she surprised a look of tender compassion
bent upon her, it was instantly averted. Her
heart was pained with the weight that she
could see and feel, resting upon her hus-
band’s mind; but she could not discern its
nature. She sought his confidence, he
evaded her inquiries. She sought again, he
said, “I cannot reveal to you the burden of
my thoughts to make you unhappy!”
Months rolled by. She sought his confi-
dence the third time. He repulsed her.
She tried to reason; her husband was a good
man, and therewith she ought to be content.
She would not be an exacting wife; she
would try to discipline her mind to rest
satisfied. Such a victory was easier sought
than achieved. Her unconquerable heart
would rebel; it would yearn for that recip-
rocal trust, which she felt was essential
to preserve the oneness that constituted
connubial bliss.
	Was the equilibrium of her mind, which
had been so long disturbed, never to be
restored?
	One morning in early spring, her hus-
band went to a Southern settlement to
preach. Susan Dean called; Naoma received
her kindly, even cordially, but the sadness
that pervaded the atmosphere of her person,
was sensibly felt by Susan. She said, “my
dear friend, you are not well to-day, let me
do something for you.” Naoma tried to
smile, said her ailment was only a fearful
foreboding of an undefinable something that
made her “so miserable” that she sometimes
feared the Evil One had put his finger in
her pie. But she could not eat in the
morning; they would have a cup of tea, and
then she would feel better. The water in
the polished tea kettle was soon boiled, and a
snow white napkin spread on the teaboard,
on which was placed some temptingly nice
bread, butter and plum preserves. Susan
pronounced the tea just the right flavor,
but Naoma could not eat. Susan marveled,
and bade her friend good bye. 
	Naoma opened a book, it seemed mockery;
no writer had ever felt as she felt—she
hoped not—and if not, they could have no
sympathy with her. What could she do?
she folded her arms and gave her mind a
few moments to a new train of thought.
Why had she not brought the burden of her
soul to the feet of Jesus? There she could
be understood; there she had ever found
succor, comfort, strength, as her circum-
stances had required. There she would
bring this, her great sorrow.
	She retired to a silent recess. Tears of
contrition filled her eyes, while with low
and tremulous voice, she pleaded with the
Father in the name of the Son to show her
wherein she was unworthy, that she might
repent, make a just restitution, and be
enabled to discharge the duties she owed to
herself, to her husband, family and to the
world, in a manner acceptable to God.
	A sweet voice from the Celestial Court
notified her that her petition was heard,
that the offering of her contrite heart was
accepted, and that the channel of communi-
cation was now open. On the holy commu-
nion I draw the curtain for half an hour.
	Naoma appeared in the midst of her
household with a new peace in her soul,
which spoke its own language through her
countenance. Her husband returned from
the neighboring settlement where he had
been to preach, and she met him with
smiles and tears. He took her hand carefully
in his, and asked, “what has happened to
you during my absence.” And she an-
swered, “Only that the Lord has deigned to
reveal to me the secret you sought to keep.”
They both wept. At length he said, “Naoma,
could you bear it?” she replied, “The
subject is so sacred, so solemn, that I cannot
converse upon it now!” he said, “I will
leave you for an hour, during which time
we will pray for ourselves and each other,
then peradventure, we may talk together.”
	There came an end to even “that” hour.
Her husband entered her apartment and
said, “How do you feel by this time,
Naoma?” She replied, “I cannot define my
feelings, farther than this; I know you to
be a servant of the Most High; I know that
the God of Abraham is your God; I know
He is a wise dictator; and wherein His ways
are not as my ways, I wish you to heed His
dictations, regardless of me. In spite of
all my good resolutions I formed before the
Lord, I find myself weak before you. Bear
with me, dear husband, a few months, and
I trust you will find me stronger.”
	Three months later, Naoma caressed her
fifth child. And her husband said, “can
you now kneel with me at the sacred Alter
and there, in the presence of God, Angels,
and witnesses, of your own free will and
choice give to me wives?” Naoma breathed
a little shorter, but answered unhesitatingly,
“yes, sir, and bless you, and bless them, and
thank God that I have the privilege.”
	Did Naoma still love her husband? Her
own words were that she “reverenced" him
now. 
									B.


﻿THE THREE last elected United States
Senators are accused of having bought their
seats: Bogg, of Missouri; Ingalls, of Kansas;
and Jones, of Nevada.
	“NO CAKE—no cards—no divorce,” was
appended to a Vermont marriage notice
lately. It is to be hoped the last condition
will be valid during life.
	LOCKMAN, the philosopher, was once
asked who had given him his first lesson in
wisdom. “The blind,” he replied, “who
do not move a step in advance until they
make sure of the ground with their stick.’
	CHARACTER is higher than intellect.
Thinking is the functionary. The stream
retreats to its source. A great soul will be
strong to live as well as strong to think.
Living is a total act. Thinking is a partial
act. Let the grandeur of justice shine in
his affairs. Let the beauty of affection
cheer his lowly roof. The scholar loses no
hour that the man lives.
	EYES.—The eyes of men converse as
much as their tongues, with the advantage
that the ocular dialect needs no dictionary,
but is understood the world over. When
the eyes say one thing and the tongue an-
other, a practised man relies on the language
of the first. If a man be off his centre, his
eyes show it. You can read in the eyes of
your companion whether your argument
hits him, though his tongue will not confess
it. There is a look by which a man shows
he is going to say a good thing, and a look
when he has said it. Vain and forgotten
are all the fine offers and offices of hospitality
if there be no holiday in the eye. How
many furtive inclinations are avowed by the
eye though dissembled by the lips!
							EMERSON.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿A LESSON LEARNED IN SLEEP.

Last night when wild winds shook my window pane,
And my sad heart as wildly beat within,
My dear, dead love, whom I had called in vain,
My ’raptured eyes beheld, through tear-mists dim.

He laid my tired head upon his breast
And gazed with far-off eyes beyond my ken;
“And does my darling weep when she should rest,
And long for me,” he said, “to come again?”

He clasped my willing fingers in his own,
And pressed upon my brow a holy kiss;
Then whispered low. with soft, indulgent tone
“Thou know’st not, love, what is real bliss.

"In mercy I am come to thee to-night.
To ope thine eyes, and ease thy breaking heart;
That sorrow nevermore may dim thy sight—
I tell thee why ’twas best that we should part.

“Dids’t never dream that I might turn away,
And from the paths of honor widely roam?
That thou might’st rue our happy bridal day,
And dread the hour that brought thy husband home?

“Temptation’s chains are strong and doubly tried;
The wine-cup was my master from my birth;
The fearful curse was born with me!” he cried,
“Look at that picture of our might-be hearth.”

And far into deep rolling mists and haze
The shadowy fingers pointed as he spoke;
And, as the dim clouds rifted for my gaze,
A sad, sad sc ne upon my vision broke,

A wan-faced woman sat beside a bed
Whereon a wasted infant form was laid;
I heard an eager, feeble cry for bread,
And knew for food that wretched mother prayed.

The scanty fagots which comprized the hoard,
Seemed but to mock her cry for warmth and light;
The meager furniture and empty board,
With fearful meaning dawned upon my sight.

A noble form, revealed by fire-light pale,
Lay prone, in heavy slumber near the hearth;
A crushed decanter told the fearful tale
Of fallen manhood and degraded worth.

“Could that have been thy fate and mine?” I said,
And from the fearful sight turned with a groan—
I started, for my visitant had fled;
I sat beside my window all alone.

The drear winds moaning at my window pane
Had lulled my tired senses into sleep;
I know my woeful vision was a dream
But from that moment I have ceased to weep.
										Emma.


[For the EXPONENT.
				PRAYER.
				    ___
	The person who has never tested the
power and efficacy of prayer is poor, indeed!
Where misfortune and suffering crowd upon
the stricken soul, when no human eye can
see and no human hand assuage its heavy
grief, how great the consolation and the
renewal of courage derived from prayer!
How divine the privilege of kneeling low
in solitude and pouring our griefs into an
ear which is not turned coldly away, and of
asking assistance where we have the blessed
assurance that we shall surely receive!
	The wayward may scoff, the wise and
strong in their own conceit may sneer, those
who cheat themselves into a disbelief in
God’s ability to stretch out His merciful
hand over His children on particular occa-
sions, may smile at the humility and faith
which prompt the act; but let the most
scornful of them be placed in sudden and
deathly peril, where no human power can
aid them, and faith and prayer are immedi-
atly vindicated; for the sufferer almost
unconsciously calls imploringly on the name
of God, and looks to Him for the assistance
which he knows can nowhere else be ob-
tained.
	And many come from such trials with
softened and humbled hearts; but some,
attributing their deliverance to whatever
means was made God’s instrument, still
refuse to believe because the universe was
not shaken to its centre and Nature’s har-
mony broken. But let them know that
God works always “with” and "through”
the laws which Himself has laid down, and
not “against” them.
	If the chief ruler of a nation finds himself
beset with intrigue, danger and difficulty,
the cultivation of a meek and prayerful
spirit is his best safe, gaurd. His bearing
will not be haughty and confident like that
of him who believes his own wisdom suffi-
cient for every emergency; but he will wear
a mild and quiet air as of one who leans upon
a superior strength; his hands will grasp
the difficulty just in the right place, and his
words, though few, will be as golden bands
to bind all sundered parts together.
	And yet, where is the miracle? No man
can acceptably present himself before the
Eternal until his heart is cleansed of all dark
and crooked purposes, his haughty spirit
humbled, his whole desires centered upon
what he deems his purest duty. Thus he
prepares himself to receive the blessings of
keen foresight, sound judgment and the
support and confidence of all pure minded
compeers. That very frame of mind which
is necessary to produce true prayer, is in
many cases the answer to prayer—the start-
ing point from which we may accomplish
the good we desire. In His wisdom God so
ordained it that many prayers should thus
answer themselves.
	And many a time when we lament that
our prayers are not answered, only our
shortsightedness prevents us from knowing
that they are answered even more fully and
completely than we could have imagined,
and much more for our good. Or, if actually
refused, ’tis only as a tender parent refuses
the glittering keen edged-blade for which
an inexperienced child holds up its hand
To cultivate this prayerful resigned state of
mind is the very best preparation agains
adversity, for we can believe our seeming
misfortunes to be blessings in disguise, and
generally prove them such. And prayer is
an armor fitted to all wearers.
	The child which desires the approbation
and confidence of its friends, may, through
this simple means bring itself into a state of
mind and manner which is sure to please.
	The busy mother, whose duties follow
upon each other as unintermittingly as the
changing seasons, may envelop herself in
this garb and surround her dear ones with
this atmosphere, until she will find the
wearing cares of the day reduced to less
than half their former dimensions. The
calm, peaceful, yet ardent spirit flows out
from her soul, as light diverges from the
sun, and permeates every object within the
circle of its benign influence. Not only will
her strength be renewed and her fainting 
heart revived, but her holy guiding influence
will be more widespread and enduring
than it could otherwise be.
	The maiden just planting the first elastic
steps upon the field of life, which, though
wreathed with roses, is also pierced with
thorns, may cling to this friendly hand, and
enveloped with prayer as with shadowing
wings, walk unharmed a midst the num-
berless dangers which enviorn the path of
youth and innocence.
	The youth upon the threshold of life, may
interpose it as a shield between him and all
his foes, and bear it in his breast as a faith-
ful monitor to guide him away from all evil.
	Oh, ye scoffers! try it “with pure mind
and feeling” and find yourselves nearer the
gates of heaven than you ever were before.
BEAVER
								L. L. D.


﻿THE SEX.
					-
	ONE hundred women are said, to be study- 
in law in American colleges.
	AGNES Ethel is to marry a wealthy New 
Yorker.
	THE Principal of Vassar College is Miss 
Perry; and Maria Mitchel is Professor of 
Astronomy in the same institution.
	THE piano sent to the future Empress of 
China is of gold and laquer, keys of mother- 
of-pearl, and plays itself like a music-box.
	TWO daughters of the Earl of Portsmouth 
have taken certificates at the London uni- 
versity, in connection with the Cambridge
local examinations.
	MISS Mary Nolan, of the St. Louis “Cen-
tral Magazine,” has applied for a patent for
a portable reservoir, of her invention, which
is to be used in preventing large fires.
	Marie Antoinette’s work-table has been
placed in the Louvre. The Empress Eugenie
bought it at a sale some years ago for $8,600,
and it was fortunately saved from the Tuil-
Ieries before the fire.
	MISS Eliza Lyman has Contracted to fur-
nish the lumber for all the water-tanks and
depot buildings of a new railroad to be built
in Vermont, and is going to superintend the
work herself.
	THE little coquettish curls or frizzes, now	
so commonly employed to adorn the brows 
of ladies were much worn by the belles of
the last century, and were called heart-	
breakers.
	IT is a singular fact that many ladies who
know how to preserve everything else, can’t 
preserve their tempers. Yet it may easily 
be done on the self-sealing principle. It is 
only to “keep the mouth of the vessel tightly	
closed.”
	MISS Ransom of Cleveland, Ohio, an artist 
of merit, who painted the first picture over 
bought by the government of a woman, has
fiuished a full-length portrait of General	
Thomas, which is spoken of as a work of 
great merit.
	EMILY Faithfull’s face, as described by a 
friend; “A pair of dark and very piercing
eyes over hung by a massive forehead and
brow, nose somewhat masculine, and mouth
large, firm, and backed by a set of good
teeth, make a face in which manly intellect
is intimately blended with manly firmness.”
	IN Strasburg, wearing the French tri- 
color having been forbidden by the Germans, 
the French ladies walk the streets by threes,
one dressed in red, the next in white, and
a third in blue. Engravings of these groups 
of fair promenaders, passing puzzled and
angry Prussians, are conspicuous in the
windows of the French print shops.	
	MRS. Virginia T. Minor has brought suit
in St. Louis, against the registration officer,
for refusing to place her name on the voting
lists. Mrs. Minor is the wife of Francis
Minor, Clerk of the supreme Court of
Missouri, who is determined to carry the
case to the United States Supreme Court,
claiming that women are entitled to the right
of suffrage under the Fourteenth Amend-
ment.
	It is related that in Gaylordsville, in Fair-
field county, Connecticut, there resides an
old lady who is so deaf that a large bell
rung immediately by her ear, cannot be
heard by her. Despite this absolute deaf-
ness, she will go to church, listen to a
lengthy sermon and then return home and
be able to repeat the discourse word for
word. Her entire knowledge of the sermon
being gained from the motion of the speaker’s	
lips.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Z. C. M. I.
	RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.
	To meet the demand of an increasing business we
have added an essential addition to our
			RETAIL ROOM,
wherein the most economical buyer can be suited.
It is our highest ambition to suit our various visitants
and purchasers, and to display our varied fabrics
regardless of purchase.
	This department aims to suit the demands of all
whether in
	DOMESTIC OR FANCY DRESS GOODS,either by the yard or piece.
					H. B. CLAWSON, Sup't.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

DR. W. H. GROVES,
									DENTIST,
	Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
			Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

				JOHNSON'S

		HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES!
	Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-
	ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.
	BONESET PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.
	EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.
	CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.
	ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea, 
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills. Price 50 cents. 
	These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at
	ZION’S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,
Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.
	If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them. 
	Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.
	AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills  expense o
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.
From the Laboratory of
						J. E. JOHNSON,
							St. George, Utah.

				NEW CLUB RATES.

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:

10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club 	-	-	-	-	   26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price,  $2 50		-	-  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $1		-	-	-	-		  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies' 
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.

CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries
	General Agents for WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

SPECIAL TO THE LADIES. 

	We would respectfully call your attention to the
fact, that we have one of the Largest and best Stocks
of Ladies’, Misses’ and Children's FURS in Sets, as
also Capes and Collars (separate), that will be found
in this City. Also a large assortment of Fine Shoes
of Philadelphia and California make.
	The above goods we will sell at the lowest possible
price.
					DUNFORD & SONS,
						SALT LAKE CITY.
	An ounce of practice is better than a pound
of theory.
	HE who sows courtesy reaps friendship,
and he who plants kindness gathers love.
	HE who never sacrificed a present to a future
good, or a personal to a general one, can
speak of happiness only as the blind do of
color.
	TRUE bravery is sedate and inoffensive;
if it refuses to submit to insults, it offers
none; it begins no disputes; enters no need-
less quarrels; it is above the little trouble-
some ambition to be distinguished every
moment; it bears in silence and replies with
modesty, fearing no enemy and making
none; and it is as much ashamed of insolence
as cowardice.
	TO live long—eat and drink and be com-
fortable. Never go to excess, and always be
hopeful. Let the world wag as it will, be hap-
py. If it goes well, laugh; if it goes ill, never
cry, for that makes it no better. Be cheerful,
contented, simple in habits, active in pur-
suits, wish well to man and have faith in
God. Then shall your years stretch out like
a summer’s day, and your youth shall be
perpetual.

		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	     A UTAH LADIES' JOURNAL.

	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.
	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.
	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? “It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!"
	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.
	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dross, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.
	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound 
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.
	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.
	WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.
	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1 Copy one year,      $2.00	  1 Copy six months,    $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months,   9.00
	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine. 

	Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City,
Utah. 

FURNISH YOUR HOMES. 

	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by

			H. DINWOODEY,

	At No 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.


Woman's Exponent.

﻿VOL. I. 	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1873.	 NO. 19.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MAINE PROPOSES to give women the
ballot; progressive Maine!
	"DON'T TOUCH me; hit him;” is the way
Idaho talks of legislation for the Territories,
pointing to Utah.
	“THE HILL to be-devil the Mormons” is
how a leading Eastern paper talks of the
Frelinghuysen bill.
	THE WINTER just closing has been in
several parts of the country the severest
known for many years.
	INDIANA is gratified over the fact that it
has as many marriages as divorses. It could
scarcely divorce couples until they were
united.
	THE WORLD moves, annually, diurnally,
religiously, socially and politically, besides
the downward movement now painfully
conspicuous.
	WERE PIETY and patriotism as highly
prized and eagerly sought after as pelf,
what a happy, blessed country these United
States would be!
	THE SPANISH republic is threatened by
the Carlists, Bourbonists, Federalists, and
general disruption. The prospect is not
very encouraging.
	A PREMIUM of one hundred dollars was
offered for the prettiest baby at an Iowa
fair. A “nigger baby” won the prize. So
the world moves
	THE PRESENT session of Congress and the
present Congress—expires on the 4th inst.
at noon. It will be known in history as the
very discreditable Credit Mobilier session.
	INSTEAD OF a bitter bill by Congress
against Utah this session—which expires on
the 4th at noon—there is talk of a Commis-
sion to come to Utah and investigate
matters here.
	CALIFORNIA HAS an incorporated State
Woman’s Hospital, the trustees being com-
posed conjointly of prominent men and
women of San Francisco.	It was incorpor-
ated on the 18th ult.
	THE WOMAN suffragists of Oregon form
a State Society which is to meet once a
year. They will not be likely to meet
many times ere they meet the desired end
for which the society is organized.
	THE PROPOSAL of a commission to inves-
tigate matters in Utah meets with favor
from all quarters, except where there exists
a desire to push a crusade against the “Mor-
mons,” regardless of law, right or justice.
	A WISCONSIN singing master recently
flogged a young lady pupil, seventeen years
of age, breaking a wooden ruler on her per-
son. He is under arrest, and should have
the full benefit of the law in such cases made
and provided.
	THE ERA of fires in the United States is
not over, and now it is said the Interna-
tionalists, with branch societies in different
parts of the country, are threatening to burn
the leading cities. The scenes enacted in
Paris by the Internationalist Commune,
are not yet forgotten.
	NEW YORK imprisons George Francis
Train for publishing a paper containing
extracts and sentiments more pointed than
fashionable, calling it obscene literature; and 
allows the vilest illustrated papers to be
circulated freely, while its haunts of vice
are admittedly sustained by many of its
leading men and officials. Virtuous New
York!
 	FROM THE rapid spread of Spiritualism
and infidelity in the United States, it is a
question what fractional part of the commu-
nity nominal Christians form, and whether
a half of the clergymen have any belief in
what they preach.
	AFTER A few newspaper correspondents
had startled the country from its propriety
by the announcement that ten thousand
troops were to be sent to Utah, it was stated
on authority from official sources that there
was no truth in the report. A tithe of the
falsehoods published in a year concerning
this Territory, would make a large-sized
volume.
	THE WOMAN'S Suffrage Association, of
New York, at a meeting about two weeks
ago, adopted a resolution and protest, entreat-
ing the House of Representatives of Congress,
to defeat the bill offered by Merritt, dele-
gate from Idaho, which included the disfran-
chisement of the women of Utah. And for
this the members of the New York Woman’s
Suffrage Association have the warmest
thanks of the women of Utah.
	MRS. DUNIWAY wishes the charming
actress, Mrs. G. B. Waldron, “would flourish
her own feminine name, instead of the mas-
culine one of her husband.” Why? We
think it an honor to the lady to evince that
respect for her husband which she does in
wearing his name with dignity. And it is
certainly a credit to the profession they
follow, that there truly exists between the
gentleman and his wife an affinity of feeling,
said to be rarely met with among people of
their profession.
	DURING THE last presidential election,
Henry Wilson, the successful candidate for
Vice-President, authorized a telegraphic
dispatch to the New York “Times,” denying
that he owned any Credit Mobilier stock.
He admits that he did authorize the dis-
patch, and says he did not own the stock, as
he gave it to his wife. Our next Vice-
President for the four years commencing
March 4th, is a thoughtful man and a model
husband. Congressman Brooks turned over
his Credit Mobilier stock to his son-in-law,
but Mr. Wilson's plan of getting rid of it was
much better, for it kept it still closer in the
family.
	ONE OF the most quiet and important
revolutions of the century was that by
which Spain ceased to be a monarchy
and became a republic. The young King
Amadeus, with rare wisdom in so young a
monarch, seeing that his occupancy of the
throne was the cause of internal dissensions
in his kingdom, resolved to abdicate and
did so. The Cortes, or national congress,
after receiving the formal decree of abdica-
tion passed a vote establishing a republic
and immediately a provisional government
was formed. So far the new republic has
conducted itself with dignity, and with the
adhesion of the masses may become in a
short time more firmly rooted than is the
present French government, that seems
dependent on the will of Thiers for its
existence.
	THE NEWSPAPERS continue full of sensa-
tions concerning Utah; and one hardly
wonders that people traveling between the
East and West should feel a little tremor
when they approach Salt Lake City, as the
“news” widely circulated will lead honest
people who are not accustomed to have
wholesale fabrications palmed upon them
for truth, to imagine that there was a dread-
ful state of society here. And yet, with the
exception of a lawlessly disposed class that
has recently come to this city, especially
since a “vigilance committee” compelled
some of them to flee from Pioche, the city is
one of the most quiet on the continent. But
by and by summer will be here, travel will
increase across the continent, and as it was a
couple of years ago, when people were half
frightened to come here and were astonished
at the magnitude of the published false-
hoods when they arrived, so it will be
again.
	PARSON NEWMAN, chaplain of the U. S.
Senate, has again let his “piety” run loose
in stirring up a crusade against Utah. His
eloquence having failed to force poor argu-
ments on sensible and better-informed 
people, he seems determined, if possible, to
make them feel that there is a strong arm
of power which can be invoked in his favor.
Failing In logic and debate he would try
bayonet and rifled cannon. Frederick the
Great, of Prussia, was wont to enforce his
arguments, it is said, by heavy kicks on
the shins of those who discussed with him.
One day he remaked to an officer: “You
cannot stand up before my arguments.”
“How can I” was the response, “while you
wear such heavy boots?” Parson Newman
wishes his arguments sustained by the
machinery of perverted courts, infantry 
regiments, cavalry cohorts, and artillery
batteries. He desires the people of Utah
to understand that the sword is at hand to
force his syllogisms down the throats of the
Latter-day Saints. And he is a clergyman,
too! 
	SUPPOSE A crusade should be urged
against the Roman Catholics in this country,
because they believe in the infallibility of
the Pope and the invocation of Saints; or
against the Second Adventists because they
believe the Lord Jesus Christ will speedily
come and rule over the earth; or against the
Methodists for imagining that the simple
action of the mind in believing will secure
their salvation; or against the Presbyterians
for holding that a portion of the human
family are born to be saved and cannot be
damned, while another portion are born to
suffer eternal tortures and cannot secure
salvation, and what a howl would resound
throughout the entire country! Yet this is
precisely what is being urged against the
Latter-day Saints because they believe in
Prophets and present revelation; for the cry
against polygamy, it is admitted, is merely
raised for effect,the immorality of the age
caring but little in regard to morality, and
perfectly satisfled that the people of Utah
are the most moral of any community on
the continent. The onslaught against the
“Mormons” is merely an attack on religious
liberty, stirred up by a few who either do
not comprehend what they are doing or are
entirely reckless as to its results, if they can
only accomplish their purposes.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿[Written for the Exponent.
			THE YEAR 1872.

	The Year is stepping out regardless of
My long, long distance from my Mountain Home.
It leaves me in Italia's “sunny clime,"
Where verdant foliage, gentle breezes kiss,
And balmy zephers fan the evening tide.

	The year now passing out, has, in its course
In lib’ral portions, meted out to me
The wide extremes of deep bereavement, and
Munificence in richly flowing streams,
Which I acknowledge freely ere we part.

	All grateful reminiscences, the old,
Expiring Year inscribes indelibly
On mem’ry's sacred tablet, richly wreath’d
With choice mementos of the good produced—
Of vict’ries truth and justice have achieved—
Improvement’s progress in the march of mind,
And every aid to poor humanity;
While its successor treads upon its heels

	Good bye old Year. We both are moving on:
You, to the cloister of the mighty past,
To join it to the future yet unborn,
I, to the farfamed land of Palestine,
Which has a hist’ry of the past, that bears
With a momentous and eternal weight,
Of destiny to all of human kind,
Upon the future which the passing years
With hurried tread ere long will introduce
With bold, magnificent developments.

	I go to place my feet upon the land
Where once, the Prince of Peace, the Son of God
Was born—where once he lived and walk’d and
	preach’d,
And prayed, admonished, taught, rebuked and blest;
And then, to answer justice’ great demand,
And seal his mission of Eternal Love,
Upon the cross poured out his precious blood —
Arose to life triumphant o’er the tomb;
And after being seen and heard and felt,
Ascended up to heaven; and as he went,
These who stood looking, heard an angel say,
"Ye men of Gallilee, why stand ye here
Gazing to heaven? The selfsame Jesus, whom
Ye see ascending, in like manner will
Again descend.’'

				Each year that passes on,
Clips from the thread of time, a portion of
Its intervening length, and hurries up
The coming great and grand fulfilment of
That strange prediction—strange and strangely true.

That most moment’ous period for the great
Event, is fast approximating, and
The moving of the waters now, amidst
The nations of the earth, like deepes; shades
Of pencil drawings, seem foreshadowing
The world’s great crisis.

						Human policy
Grows tremulous; while human governments,
With tender care are fondly fostering,
And feeding with their life’s best nourishment,
The seeds of their own dissolution.

								France
Is poising on a pivot. England rests
On her broad pedestal, but resting moves
With vaulting tendencies. The tamed
Italia stands in leaning posture from
The Papal Chair to King Emmanuel;
While Russia, beckoning to Austria,
To Germany, or whosoever will;
Solicits help to lift the balance
Of Power, now lying just beyond her reach.

The wires of destiny are working on,
To consummate eternal purposes,
And bring results of change, that must precede
“The Second coming of the Son of Man;"
When, unto Him, “whose right it is to reign,"
All human pow’rs and governments will bow.
								Eliza R. Snow.
Milan, Italy, Dec , 31, 1872.


﻿F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.

			TOOELE CITY, Feb. 10th, 1873.
DEAR EDITOR:—
    According to request, I write to inform
you that as a society we unanimously agreed,
some time ago, to drop the word “Female,"
from our appellation. I think it was a very
sensible move of Sister Snow’s,
    We feel, as a branch of the Relief Society,
thankful that we have sisters to lead us who
possess the Spirit of God and are able to give
us meat in due season.
    The EXPONENT, I think, is a paper that
is bound to succeed; it is “filled” with good
counsel, good ideas, and carries with it a
saving influence; and every family ought to
have it.
	I believe our Society in Tooele can com-
pare favorably with that of any other
settlement. It is now nearly three years
since we were organized, and we have been
trying ever since to do our best. We have
excellent meetings. The sisters are alive
to their duties, and I believe will accomplish
much good. We held our annual ball last
week, to assist in raising means for the
Emigration Fund; it was quite a success.
We have room enough to do a very large
amount of good, both at home and abroad;
and that God may strengthen and direct us
in all our ways is the humble prayer of your
sisters,
	MRS. MARY MEIKLEJOHN, President;
EMILY WARBURTON, Secretary.

		    SECOND WARD, S. L. City,
				February 13th, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
    At our meeting on the 2nd of January,
1873, we were favored with the presence of
our Bishop, Brother Leach, and his Counsel-
ors; also sisters Zina D. Young, Elizabeth
Howard and Martha B. Young; who ad-
dressed the meeting, exhorting to faithful-
ness and perseverance in good works. Our
financial report gave a good showing for the
year 1872. A motion to drop the word
“Female” from the name of the Society
was presented, and the vote to sustain the
proposition was unanimous.
    We held another excellent meeting on
the 6th of February, at which sister Sarah
Wheeler was appointed and unanimously sus-
tained as President of the Society, in the
place of sister Nicolona Oleson, who has been
faithful and energetic in her calling, but has
lately left the Ward.
			JANE RICKARD, Secretary.

		RELIEF SOCIETY, 10th WARD,
		   Salt Lake City, Feb. 21, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
    At a meeting held November 7th 1872, it
was agreed upon by our Society to omit the
word “Female,” as suggested. Our report
comes thus late on account of our failing to
get the understanding that each Society
was desired to report.
    Although our subscription list to your
excellent paper is yet small, it will increase;
for many are pleased with it. Those inter-
esting letters from Sister E. R. Snow are
splendid. May God bless, preserve and
inspire her to write us many such is the
prayer of her faithful sisters. The Society
here is prospering. Our monthly business
meetings are moderately attended, and
good feelings pervade; our semi-monthly
meetings, for testimony, prayer and etc.,
are doing much good. Our Retrenchment
Society has been reorganized and our young
sisters have made a very good beginning.
We have the confidence of our Bishop and
his counselors who are well pleased with our
exertions. Our President has been very
sick but is now better.
    May success attend the EXPONENT and
may it go faithfully and steadily onward.
    Respectfully yours,
			SARAH STRONG, President.
    SUSANNA M. NAYLOR, Secretary.

EDTIOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
    I feel that I owe you an apology for neg-
lecting to forward our mutual approbation in
regard to dropping the word “Female,” as
it is considered superfluous in connection
with the name of the Society.
    The Society of the 4th Ward (Provo,) is
in a healthy condition, new members being
added at nearly every meeting. It could
not well be otherwise with such a President
as Mrs. Holden, who delights in the order
of the Kingdom of God, often referring to its
beauties and grandeur. And she has the
assistance of a “live Bishop,” whose ex-
ertions are unceasing in looking after and
providing for the poor. I have never known
his individual interests so pressing that he
could not sympathize with the bereaved of
his Ward, and accompany them to the last
resting place of the deceased friends. His
presence at our meetings, his counsel and
instructions, are ever cheering and highly
appreciated. So much for Bishop Wm. A.
Follett. Our much esteemed Treasurer,
Mrs. M. J. Smith, in consequence of ill
health, has not been able to meet with us
this winter, yet she has exerted herself far
beyond her strength for the good of the
Society. A person of less “vim” would
long ago have yielded to another the laborious
position of Treasurer, but with energy like
her’s, there is no shrinking while the vital
spark burns.
    With kind love to yourself and all inter-
ested in the great cause of regeneration,
        I am truly yours,
			L. W. KIMBALL, Secretary,
4th Ward Relief Society, Provo.

    At the Retrenchment meeting in the 8th
Ward, Salt Lake City, held February 12th,
1873, Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball said she was
present in the interest of Physiology. If
she had a “hobby,” it was the importance
of having a knowledge of one’sself and the
proper uses of one’s powers. Self knowledge
was the first step toward self improvement.
Science taught that pain was a penalty and
did notbelong to nature. If one was dys-
peptic, there was a cause for it, either
inherited, or through abuse of some of the
powers. Human bodies were not forlorn,
disagreeable objects and should not be
subjected to causes that would make them
such. Every correct lesson learned of self,
made one better acquainted with her fellow
beings. “We give ourselves the wounds we
feel.” Health was productive of happiness,
which was the legitimate pursuit of all
flesh. Ladies’ skirts should not be fastened
with bands but the weight of their clothing
should be suspended from the shoulders.
Tight lacing was a sin against humanity.
The natural shape of the human body was a
little flattened and not round, as it was
forced to appear from the pressure it
received by the way in which many ladies
dressed. The body should never be clothed in
a manner to prevent the breath being drawn
in deeply and freely. The breath was the
life. When weary and feeling depressed,
hardly aware of what the cause might be,
one would often find relief from long, deep
breathing, there being too little oxygen in
the system. Professor Bronson, a learned
physician, while suffering with consumption,
from which, it was believed, he never could
recover, had gained a “thought,” while
watching a dying child, which was the
means of his restoration to health. He saw
that the child’s breath grew shorter and
shorter as death approached it, and saw also
that if the child could only continue to
breath, it could live. He thought, then,
that he would not cease to breath; and
he would go into the open air and draw long,
deep breaths for some time; and that simple
remedy cured him. Professor Fowler had
also told of once being so completely ex-
hausted that he felt it an impossibility for 
him to fulfill an engagement to lecture.
He threw himself upon the bed and began


drawing long, heavy breaths, which he felt,
rested and restored his fatigued body, and
he was soon able to rise and attend to his
business.
	The speaker asked if we could not apply
these and similar lessons to ourselves, and
answered that we could; she had proven it;
that twenty, thirty or even thirty-five years
ago she had seemed older than now, had never
enjoyed better health or been half so happy
in her life before, as at the present time.
	Sister Zina D. Young remarked that no
one had any right to trifle with existence
God had given. A short time ago a young
lady had died suddenly, and after her
death it was ascertained that by lacing, her
ribs had been turned in, so that the front
ends almost met with the back-bone. Good
sense should once more get the upper hand
of pride and vanity, and then woman could
live long and fulfill the measure appointed
unto her with rejoicing. It was well to
always cultivate a happy, cheerful spirit.
If the tears of the daughters of Zion were
to be wiped away, the present was as good a
time as there would ever be to begin it.
	Mrs. Willmarth East said, that to contem-
plate the degeneracy of the human family
was enough to convince any one that it was
necessary to study and learn the laws of life
and health. Dieting was one thing that too
little notice was taken of; and going with
damp feet was one of the worst things a
woman could do to produce desease and
suffering. For the sake of future genera-
tions, mothers should endeavor to preserve
health and longevity that the same might
be implanted in their offspring.
	Miss L. L. Greene was interested in the
subject of Physiology; the laws of nature
were the laws of God; it was impossible to
violate the one without sinning against the
other. In order to reasonably exercise
faith in God—men and women should live
in accordance with the laws of their beings.
The principles of the Gospel were the prin-
ciples of eternal life; a proper knowledge
and use of the faculties, physical and mental,
would make gods and godesses of the
children of men.
	Sister Mary A. Leaver, President of the
8th Ward R. Society, was grateful to the
sisters who had visited the Ward—not to
benefit themseles, but others. Hoped the
daughters of Zion might become one in
gaining useful knowledge and live by the
same.
	Sisters Tufts, Needham, Chamberlain
and Leaver, (daughter-in-law to President
Mrs. Mary A. Leaver,) bore testimony to the
truth, as revealed in the Latter-days, and
asked blessings upon the sisters who were
visiting and instructing them.
	Mrs. Lona Cross Spencer, President of the
Young Ladies’ Retrenchment Association,
thought that the faith of the sisters was
strengthened by their joining their testi-
monies and speaking words of comfort and
encouragement to each other. Brother
Heber C. Kimball used to talk very plainly
to the sisters about their manner of dress.
She thanked sister Kimball and the sisters
who came with her for their good words.
	Sister Kimball said the grateful feeling
was mutual—she and he companions also
returned thanks

			Salt Lake City, 13 Ward,
						January 25th, 1873.
Dear Editor:—
	We intended sending you a report of our
Society long ere this, but sickness and other
unavoidable hindrances have prevented.
Our meetings, as in most instances, have
been attended by the faithful few, though
many who do not meet with us have
donated liberally. Our receipts for dona-
tions since the Society was organized
amounts to $1,597:50. The sick and needy
have been cared for; we have assisted in
building a house for an aged couple, besides
expending means to aid repairs on the As-
sembly Rooms; donated to the P. E. Fund
$161; towards building the Temple $270;
have invested in the 13th Ward and Saving
Bank to the credit of $230 and in the
Treasury, in cash, clothing, etc. $72:50. Our
meetings are held the first Thursday in each
month; the Spirit of the Lord is much
enjoyed by those attending, who realize
that they are times of refreshing and tend
to strengthen and stimulate us to increased
energy and diligence in our duties as Saints
of God, and in the good cause in which we
are engaged. I believe I can say, there is
an increasing interest taken in contributing
to the good of the Society, and that it is in
a flourishing condition; trusting that the
demands and necessities of the poor will
continue to enlist our sympathies and efforts
to do them good, until it can be said “There
are no poor in Zion.” The Woman’s Ex-
ponent is highly appreciated by many of
our members, who pray that it may continue
to increase in interest and circulation.
		ELIZABETH H. Goddard, Secretary.

	Saturday the 15th of February, being a
fine and favorable day, a very fair represen-
tation of the members of the Retrenchment
Association were present at the 14th Ward
Assembly Rooms, in this city—their usual
place of meeting.
	After the ordinary preliminaries, Presi-
dent Mrs. Mary I, Horne made excellent
remarks concerning faith, which she testified
was indeed, in the language of the Apostle,
“The substance of things hoped for—the
evidence of things not seen.” If by faith
the sick had been healed, mountains re-
moved, the dead raised to life, and many
other marvelous things accomplished, what
might not the Saints hope for if they but
lived to secure to themselves that faith
which is obtained through obedience to the
requirements of the laws of God? If we
had but faith as a grain of mustard seed, it
had been written, that we might say to
that mountain “remove hence” and it would
be done. The Saints had nothing to fear if
they would live their religion so as to keep
the faith, and also gain continual increase
of the same. But without faith their power
would amount to nought.
	Sister Percinda L. Kimball said, every-
thing that was necessary to be done, could
be done through faith. If the people lived
faithfully and humbly they should not fail
in faith, but their faith be strengthened
constantly. They should exercise faith for
each other and for the Kingdom of God,
and if they could but live worthy of faith,
such as God was able and willing to bestow
upon them, no power would be able to harm
them, but all things would work together
for the good of the Saints.
	Sister Hannah W. Brinton was happy to
see the countenances of her sisters beaming
with intelligence and light, which bespoke
good hearts and pure minds. She believed
it impossible to accomplish any good thing
without faith.
	Sister Eleanor J. Pratt saw that there was
much to weaken the faith of the Saints, yet,
she believed the women present, if united,
could have sufficient faith to avert any evil
that might be aimed against Israel.
	Sister Sarah Groo said that it required
considerable faith to induce her to arise and
address an intelligent congregation like that
before her. She was glad that faith had
been chosen as a subject for consideration
in the meetings; she had been edified and
felt that she understood more concerning
faith than ever before.
	Counselor Mrs. E. Howard gave a very 
interesting account of her early experience
in the Church, and of the peculiar manner
in which the light of truth was first made
manifest to her mind, and showed what
power there was in the prayer of faith.
After which she said that the enemies of
the Saints were preparing to give them 
another lift up the hill; as they were—
many of them—too careless and indolent,
about the things of their religion, to keep in
the right path, except they were urged on
occasionally.
	Other remarks were made, and there ap-
peared to be a general impression that the
subject of faith had been introduced into
the meetings at the right moment, that its
exercise, with earnest prayer in behalf of
the Church, was highly requisite.	
	The same subject was to be continued at
the next meeting.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A COOL-HEADED YOUNG WOMAN.

	A short distance this side of Union, on the
Union and Titusville Railroad, there is a
very long and very high trestle, and one
upon which nobody ventures who is at all
inclined to be light-headed. Immediately
this side of the trestle there is a sharp curve
in the road, so that a person walking on it
can not be seen by the engineer of an
approaching train until it is nearly upon
him. On Friday last, as Mr. Wm. Toles,
engineer of Mr. Holmes’ train came around
the curve at a good rate of speed, he was
horrified to discover a lady about the mid-
dle of the trestle, and hardly a train’s length
from him. Quick as thought “Billy”
whistled “down brakes,” gave her sand, and
threw back the reversing lever, while at
the same time he knew that it was an utter
impossibility to check the heavy train before
the victim would be overtaken and crushed
to death, and with fixed eyes he awaited
the catastrophe. The lady heard the
warning Whistle, and turning her head saw
the iron monster almost upon her. Escape
seemed impossible, to remain was certain
death, to jump to the ground beneath, a
distance of thirty or forty feet, equally cer-
than death, and to attempt to run ahead and
escape was out of the question. Unlike
ten thousand young ladies—and she is said
to have been young and fair—out of ten
thousand and one, she did not scream or
faint or indulge in any nonsense of any kind,
but realizing the situation in an instant, and
taking the chances all in, she proceeded to
an action that saved her life. About thirty
inches below the ends of the ties, and im-
mediately under the stringer which supports
them, there is a joint five inches wide run-
ning from one support of the trestle to
another, and to this the clear-headed girl
resorted for safety. Stepping to the end of
the ties she swung herself down to this
narrow thread with the apparent case of a
gymnast, and with her arms clasped around
it stretched herself at full length along it as
the train thundered by almost over her. As
soon as the engineer saw her action he threw
off his brakes, and putting on steam hurried
past as soon as possible, when she nimbly
sprang to the track again and pursued her
journey as though nothing had happened.
—“Titusville (Penn.) Herald.”


﻿THERE can certainly be no greater felicity
than to be able to look back on a life usefully
and virtuously employed, and to trace our
progress in existence by such tokens as
excite neither shame nor sorrow.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.

    Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
    Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
    Address all business communications to
				       Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt	Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 1, 1873.


SPLINTERS.
	Gail Hamilton has the small-pox......Mrs.
Stowe has a new book called “Palmetto
Leaves.”......Laura Keam is candidate for
the office of State Librarian in Indiana.
Mr. Conklin is alluded to as the thin-haired
Apollo-Belvidere of the Senate......The Arch-
Duke Charles of Austria has lately completed
his seventieth year......The income tax in
India is to be abolished......Nellie Grant
will visit Europe again this year......The
Crown Prince of Germany is an artist......
Fred Douglas talks of going to live in Eu-
rope......A Terre Haut, Indiana, belle stands
six feet one inch in her stockings......Mrs.
Henry Wood has a new story entitled “The
Master of Greyhounds”.......Barnum lately
had his pockets picked and a diamond pin
stolen......The balance of trade against the
United States last year was in round num-
bers $118,000,000......Michigan produced 118 1/2
pairs of boy twins during 1870, the other
half was a girl......A St. Louis paper says
that fashionable wedding trips in Chicago
consist of a foot race to the nearest
divorce court......The Japanese Embassy was
received with military honors at Calais......
The Sisters of Notre Dame have offered
their services as nurses at the small-pox
hospital in Boston......A premium was
offered at a late fair in Montgomery, Ala.,
for the “young woman who would make
the best wife for a poor man.”......The new
head-quaters of the Pullman Palace Car
Company, in Chicago, are finished and
occupied......Powell’s new painting of Per-
ry’s Victory has been placed in the Capitol
at Washington......A woman in Delaware
recently died at the age of 72, after serving
fifty years in one family as a farm hand.
The lecture field will soon be abandoned by
Olive Logan....Froude’s return to England
was much sooner than he expected.........
Oysters are being taken from Norfolk, Va.,
to be planted on the British coast......Ice at
St. Paul has been fourteen feet thick......
Chicago lost 800 horses by the distemper.
......Connecticut has 114 Baptist churches.
A locomotive shop in Russia employs 4,000
men......Small-pox is spreading in New
England......Brooklyn, Long Island, had
twenty-six fires in December......Lake
George was frozen over in December last, the
third time in thirty years at so early a date.
......Wisconsin is said to be more than two
million dollars in debt.....Lancaster, N. H.,
has had a touch of 42 degrees below zero......
The University at Geneva has, in a gentle-
manly manner, opened its doors to women.
......Philadelphia proposes a tower 1,000
feet high, to illuminate the grounds of the
great Centennial Exposition......The Chicago
public library is kept in a large iron water-
tank......A monster nettle of Australia
grows to the height of forty feet....Yale
College is to have a new chapel to cost
$100,000......The Boston flats are being filled
up with rubbish from the burned buildings.
......Massachusetts has $184,797,313:92 in
her savings’ banks......It is said that free
use of the Atlantic cable has been offered to
the Smithsonian Institute......Ohio men get
fined for opening their wives’ letters......
During the past year, within the limits of
the United States, 7,478 miles of railroad
have been completed, and 6,514 miles put
under construction, making a total of 13,992
miles on which work has been done.........
New Jersey has thirty-three savings banks.
......The abreviatory letters, M. C. for Mem-
ber of Congress, may now be appropriately
transversed, and read C. M. for Creditors
Mobilier......The amount of bonds which
the Government issued to the Union Pacific
Railroad Company, is pronounced $27,237,512
currency, bearing interest at the rate of 6
per cent per annum......Comodore J. D. Mc-
Kenny, of the United States Navy, lately
died, sixty-six years old, and leaving
property valued at more than $100,000......
Miss Rothschild, a daughter of the well
known family, was married in London, on
the 12th of February, to Mr. Elliott of New
York......Another Arizona diamond hunter
comes to Virginia City with several pounds
of what are pronounced “geuine rubies.”......
The President of Harvard, Mr. Elliott, has
given up his own residence to a student
who is down with the small-pox......Ken-
tucky wants to establish a law to have
separate schools for its white children and
colored ones.....Rose Porro, arrested in
Naples for child murdering, has confessed
the terrible crime of having starved and
poisoned, as near as she can recollect, about
forty infants, to satisfy her greed for money.
......More money is said to be made in
America by the cheap story-weeklies than
by the entire daily press.......Frauds, law-
suits, and false telegrams are so common
that they no longer create the slightest
surprise.
......A notorious Corsican—bandit, Antonio
Suzzoni, who has four times been
sentenced to be hanged and each time made
his escape, once from the very scaffold, was
lately shot and killed......Two gentlemen
in Virginia, Nevada, have adopted a plan
for prospecting for ore, similar to that em-
ployed in sinking artesian wells......A young
lady in Indiana, a few days since, fell into
the fire in a fainting fit, and burned to
death before the accident was discovered.
......Tennie C. Clafflin has lost her Colonel-
ship......Ben Butler is said to write sympa-
thetic letters to Mrs. Woodhull......Speaking
of the Credit Mobilier, a contemporary says,
“Who steals will lie!”....Newbern, N. C.,
eats shad at $1:80 per pair......In some
portions of France and Spain Woman’s
Rights are wonderfully recognized; she may
chop her own wood, fodder her husband’s
stock, and all that sort of thing, besides
doing the house-work......Colorado has
seven daily papers, six more than Florida.
......The euphonious name of a suburb of
Dubuque is “Dirty Holland.”


﻿NEED FOR COURAGE AND UNITY.

    To believe, or even to know a thing, no mat-
ter how important, amounts to very little
unless that which is believed can be tested, or
the knowledge existing be put to use. It is
true faith which gives a person courage to
speak or act in defense of right, at the risk of
being considered unpopular; to be honest,
though it bring but poverty and neglect; to be
loyal, though misjudged, misrepresented and
frowned upon; to stand firm and steadfast for
the truth, though all is dark, save where the
thought of God and hope of brighter days shed
one small ray of light—just enough to keep the
soul from sinking utterly. True faith gives
strength and heart to act, even in the face of op-
position; to tell the truth, however harsh it may
seem, if necessary. Though friendships be turned
to gall, though kindred desert and cherished
ones turn away in derision—still, true faith
will have the power to stand, and even walk
into the wilderness, if so directed by the voice
of God.
    When has there ever been a time since the
“Morning Stars sang together,” when to
exercise faith in the true and living God, and 
to manifest that faith by its legitimate repre- 
sentative—earnest work in the behalf of virtue 
and integrity—has not aroused the ire of Satan
and those who do his work?  Yet, when ever 
was the world so full of corruption, so crimsoned
with crime, so fully ripe in iniquity as at the
present time? When ever was unity among
the Saints of God so requisite as now, when all
the powers of the Evil One seem to be arrayed
in arrogance and stubborn, jealous enmity
against the cause of right and justice?
    Mothers should be united in teaching to the
youth who look to them for aid and direction,
the principles of everlasting truth; and the
young should be as one in seeking after that
faith and knowledge and divine revelation,
which will keep them safe from falling into
temptation, and give them the courage to
think and to act in spite of the taunts and
jeers of the vain and wicked.  The Saints
should begin to see that the unity which they
have been long counseled and urged to adopt, is
highly necessary to their safety and their
peace.

	HISTORY REPEATING ITSELF.

    Some eighteen centuries ago the world
saw the spectacle of the most powerful
nation on the earth attempting to crush out a
handful of believers in a new faith. That
power was Rome; that faith was the Gospel, as 
revealed by the Savior of mankind.  Pagan
Rome had no objections to the few who be-
lieved in Christ elevating him to a niche in the
Pantheon among their other deities, and being
recognized as one of the gods to whom temples 
were reared; but would not acknowledge, nor
permit others to proclaim, his superiority to
the deities before whom the Romans bowed in 
reverence. And edicts went forth to compel
the Christians to sacrifice to the Pagan deities,
or to inflict upon those that refused the severest 
penalties. And not alone on account of religion 
were those edicts to be enforced, for as one 
doctrine of the Christian faith was that their
Lord would come as a Messiah to deliver Israel 
and establish his Kingdom, this was held to be 
treason against Rome, punishable with death. 
So the Christians were hunted like wolves,
were thrown into the arena to combat with
wild beasts, were crucified, tortured in the
most horrible manner, and martyred, to satisfy
the vengance of those whodemanded that they
should turn away from the faith they had
received, deny Christ, and acknowledge the
supremacy of Rome and the gods worshipped
by the Romans.
    People now look back to those terrible 
seasons of persecution as presented on the
pages of history, that the Christians had to
pass through, and thank God that such scenes 
cannot be enacted now; that  people, especially
in this enlightened Republic, are not persecuted
for conscience’ sake; and, perhaps in the next
breath, will urge the passage by Congress of 
some proscriptive measure against the Latter-
day Saints. Point out to them the incon-
sistency of their so doing, and they will appear
amazed.  It is not the religion of the Latter-
day Saints that they are opposed to; oh, no!
But they object to "a theocratic govermment”
—that is, a government where God rules; they


object to the “absurd idea” of there now being
Prophets and Apostles; and they object to
the Celestial order of marriage, as it has been
revealed in this dispensation. In fact, these
people are willing the “Mormons” should
believe just as they please, it being understood
that such belief will be in accordance with the
views entertained by these very consistent
individuals as to what forms a proper kind of
belief. The Second Adventists, like the ancient
Christians, believe in the Second Coming of
the Lord Jesus Christ, and but little is said of
it; but the Latter-day Saints believe the same
thing, and they are accused of teaching trea-
sonable doctrines, in consequence.
	Viewed in the light of calm, philosophic
and unprejudiced reflection, when the attempt
is made by the United States, to-day, to compel
Latter-day Saints to change their religious be-
lief, discard doctrines held sacred, repudiate
their Prophets and Apostles, and deliberately
shut the gates of communication opened by
the Almighty between the heavens and the
earth, at the risk of imprisonment, despoiling
of property and perhaps death, then this
Republic aims at accomplishing what Rome
tried to do through many bitter and bloody
persecutions, and failed. Nor are we exagger-
ating the prospect.  Were some of the bills
lately introduced in Congress to become law,
and the desired power be conferred on certain
men in this Territory, it would be stretched
until the gallows would rise up, black and
ghastly, against the sunlight of heaven, and
they would compass, if possible, the death of
some of the best men in the community, for
alleged crimes which they never commit-
ted, yet, really for religion’s sake.  But so
far the Almighty has preserved His people;
yet, that history is repeating itself, is none the
less clear.  Here we have the mightest power
on earth—for with its boundless resources and
rapidly growing population this country is so
—having its authority directed by evil-minded
and pitiless bigots to crush out the people that
pioneered and settled this vast interior region;
and the cry goes up "Root out the Mormons
from Utah." Wiser men, better men, the more
conservative element of society, even if they
cannot coincide with the belief of the Latter-
day Saints, deprecate all such proscriptive and
extreme measures as are urged.  But the fanat-
ical class is active, and the numerous class does
not reflect while the conservative element is qui-
escent; and the whole nation ts permitting
itself to be driven to persecution, to the destruc-
tion of religious liberty, and to the overthrow
of republican principles, unless the best citizens
of the country bestir themselves to avert the
danger.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	The Utah question and the woman question
should change corners during one session of
Congress.
    IT IS worth noteing, that the heaviest snow-
storm which has fallen in this valley for years
commenced on Monday night last, 24th ult.,
and continued until Wednesday morning.  A
very large amount of snow fell during the time.
    PRESIDENT BRIGHAM Young has returned
from Southern Utah, where he has spent
the winter so far. It is gratifying to state that
his health is good, and that he enjoyed himself
very much while south; while the Saints there
appreciated his society.
    WE LEARN from a private communica-
tion from Fountain Green, Sanpete County,
that considerable sickness in those parts is
occasioned by a disease which some pronounce
Small-pox. Our correspondent had heard of
no deaths resulting from it at the time of writ-
ing.
    THROUGH COURTESY of President Mrs. Mary
I. Horne, of this city, and President Mrs. Jane
S. Richards, of Ogden, we are enabled to fur-
nish our readers in this number of the
EXPONENT, with two highly interesting
communications from “the Representative of
the Ladies of Utah, abroad"—Sister Eliza R.
Snow.
    THE EXPONENT has once stated that all
communications, addressed to its columns, to
receive attention must be accompanied by the
signature of the writer.  Again it becomes
necessary for us to request contributors to send
us their names—not for publication, except
they desire it—as was before stated, but because
it is proper for us to know who our correspond-
ents are.
    THE PALESTINE party, when last heard from,
were at Naples, Italy, on January 29th, and
were to leave the next morning for Egypt.
On the 27th they visited the excavation of
Pompei, buried for eighteen centuries; the
next day they visited Herculaneum, also buried
at the same time by an eruption of Vesu-
vius; and on the 29th they ascended the
burning mountain, President George A. Smith
being carried up in a chair, and looked down
the awful crater which has so often belched
destruction on the towns and villages at its
base.
    DURING THE week between the 15th and 22nd
of last month two deaths occurred, news of which
was sent all through the Territory, and from
which our young people, particularly the male
portion of the youth of our communities, may
draw striking examples of a highly beneficial
character. We refer to the dreadful, horrifying 
doom of the outlaw and murderer, young Ben-
son, of Logan; and the calm, hopeful, holy
death of the trusty servant and follower of
God, Major William Pitt, of this city.  Of the
former, little need be said; the gloomy circum-
stances connected with a life so dark, a death
so terrible, stand without comment, a fearful
warning to persons of unrestrained passions, or
those who are given to vicious habits.  But a
death and funeral like that of Elder Pitt, can
only be pronounced a triumph, for which, it
was worth living an honest, virtuous useful
life. To witness such a gathering of friends,
and to listen to the cheerful, light-producing
testimonies of inspired men on such an occa-
sion, bring up the hopeful thoughts of one of
old, “Let me live the life of the righteous,
and die like this just man.”


WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
    As a lover of Truth, I take great pleasure
in advocating the same. I have been in the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
twenty-two years, and have had much
experience in that time.  It is over twenty
years since I left father, mother, brothers
and sisters for the Gospel.  I am a believer
in polygamy, have lived in it sixteen years
and have never once wished to be out of it.
I thank God my Heavenly Father, for His
goodness in enlightening my mind to know
the Truth when I heard it; and that I have
embraced it.  And I do know that the Lord
has heard and answered my prayers many
times.  I take the EXPONENT and like it
much; think two dollars well spent in sub-
scribing for it, and would not be without it
for anything.
						      M. E. W.
Salt Lake City.


﻿DIVERSIONS.

	A RISING man—A lamplighter.
	SHOCKING—A magnetic battery.
	HOW to serve a good dinner—eat it.
	A “YOUNG SHAVER.”—A barber’s boy.
	A TRUISM.—An expensive wife makes a
pensive husband.
	BOYS are like vinegar: the more “mother”
there is in them, the sharper they become.
	THERE are some things it won’t do to
trifle with—for instance, a woman’s opinion
and the business end of a wasp.
	WHAT is the difference between a mur-
derous attack and pig killing? One is
assault with intent to kill, and the other is a
kill with intent to salt.
	SOMEBODY inquiring at the Springville, Ill.
post-office for a letter for Mike Howe, re-
ceived the gruff answer that there was no
letter there for anybody’s cow.
	AN exchange tantalizes its readers with
this atrocity: “Have you heard of the man
who got shot?” “Got shot? No; how did
he get shot?” He bought them.
	A YOUNG lady who was rebuked by her
mother for kissing her intended, justified
the act by quoting the passage: “'Whatso-
ever you would that men should do unto
you, do you even so unto them.”
	A LITTLE four-year old sat alone in the
parlor, when a new doctor came suddenly
to see his sick mother. The doctor naturally
wished to make his acquaintance, and
asked, “How old are you, my son?” “I’m
not old—I’m new,” said the boy.
	THE man who sat up all night weighing
a ton of coal with a pair of steelyards, and
by the pailful, to see that he had received
full weight, thought he was a-head a few
pounds until he remembered that he had
not deducted the weight of the pail.
	A LARGE room in the accountant’s office
at the East India House was divided into
boxes or compartments, in each of which
six clerks were accustomed to sit, of whom
Lamb once was one. They were called
“Compounds,” and, the meaning of the
word being asked one day, Lamb explained
it as a “collection of simples.”
	“WHAT are you bellowing about?” cried
an irate mother at the foot of the stairs one
evening, after her two boys had been put
to bed. “Please, mother,” said bellowing
Bill, “Jim wants half the bed.” “Well,”
said she, “let him have half the bed and
you take the other half.” “Yes, mother,”
said Bill, “but he wants his half out of the
middle, and make me sleep on both sides of
him.”
	THE day before Washington’s birthday,
in February last, a lady teacher, in giving
notice of the coming holiday to her pupils,
said something about the good Washington,
and then asked the question:
	“Why should we celebrate Washington’s
birthday more than “mine?”
	“Because he never told a lie! shouted a
little boy.
	This was rather hard on the teacher, but
the boy did not see it.


JUDGE POLAND'S Congressional Credit
Mobilier investigating committee, in its
report, laments the painful conflict of testi-
mony—which is a mild way of saying
perjury among prominent politicians. No 
wonder people are asked to admire the
lofty character of the modern gentleman 
who makes law a profession and polices a
trade.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW

			Milan, Italy, Jan. 1st, 1873.
	Mrs. Jane S. Richards,
Dear Sister:—
	How very changefull are the events of
human life! One year ago, the idea of
addressing you from Italy at the commence-
ment of this year would have seemed almost
an impossibility. But here I am, a long
distance from what to me is the dearest
spot on earth—the home of the Saints of the
living God. The lapse of time, since part-
ing with you, and the many dear ones
associated with you in Ogden, has been a
constant routine of change combined with
deep interest. Our party consists of Presi-
dent George A. Smith, Elders Lorenzo
Snow, Paul A. Shettler, Feramorz Little,
George Dunford, Thomas Jennings, Miss
Clara Little and your humble servant. So
far as society is concerned, we are indepen-
dent wherever we are, and enjoy ourselves
as well as possible for people abroad, feeling
assured of the faith and prayers of the
righteous; and I assure you that I never for-
get a tribute of gratitude to those through
whose love, kindness and generous energies
the privilege of this tour is extended to me.
I have, so far, enjoyed it far beyond my
anticipations. Two months and one week,
and I am between seven and eight thousand
miles from home, having traveled through
England—visited the most prominent cities
in Holland and Belgium; and in France the
cities of Paris, Versailles, Lyons, Marseilles
and Nice. After leaving Nice we enter the
dominions of Victor Emanuel—our first
stopping place in Italy, according to our
programme, would be Genoa, but in conse-
quence of heavy rains having made a break
in the railroak, we stopped one night in
Rome, and went the next day to Genoa, the
birth-place of Christopher Columbus. From
Genoa we went to Turin and came thence to
this place.
	The national religion, we found since
leaving England to be Catholic. I had
never witnessed the service until in Brus-
sels. This being New Year’s Day, “High
Mass”' was performed in the grand “Cathe-
dral of Milan,” which we attended. The
Cathedral is a magnificent Gothic structure,
containing fourteen chapels; it is, by many,
considered the finest in the world. We
were informed that the service on the
occasion was of the highest order; certainly
much of it was sensless form and unmean-
ing, though dazzling display. I enjoyed the
singing and the sweet music of the two
organs, which played alternately. The
Archbishop, who represented the Pope in
all respects except that his hand instead of
his toe was kissed, was most gorgeously
dressed—bearing, at times, upon his head a
supurb mitre, and at other times, according
to the requirements of the service, it was
taken off by an officiate and held until again
required and then replaced. The burning
of incense was profuse. Great numbers,
variously attired, officiated on the occasion,
and the congregation was immense. The
services were performed in Latin and it is
presumable, as little comprehended by the
majority of the church members as by us.
I readily understood that many of the people
present were, like ourselves, spectators.
But when I looked upon the congregation and
saw some crossing themselves, some rever-
ently kneeling and others bowing, first to a
golden crucifix, then to the Archbishop, my
heart responded—How long, O Lord, shall
these, thy children be bound in the dwarf-
ing chains of traditional superstition and
ignorance? It is true the powers of earth
are shaking, but at present, l can see no hope
for millions of people under the training of
the Mother of harlots, and the influence of
Priestcarft, but through the ordinances for
the dead. Such were my reflections while
I remained a spectator in the midst of a
great multitude, in the stately and superb
Cathedral of Milan, which is described as
being four hundred and eighty-six feet in
length, and its total breadth three hundred
and fifty feet.
	As we approached Marseilles, the face of
the country, which had been level, assumed
a very uneven appearance, hills approximat-
ing to the dimensions of mountains; and for
the first time on our route, we saw groves
of olive trees, and occasionally oranges; and
when we reached the Mediterranean, they
became very common, ornamenting the
cities along the coast—the orange and lemon
trees being loaded with golden fruit; some
of them, very large, must have been planted
long ago.
	Our present location is inland from the
sea, and the olive, orange and lemon have
all disappeared, save as the orange is placed
on our dinner table every evening for desert.
On this side the Atlantic, I have not seen
apples that would compare with those of our
mountain home—most of those we have
seen are very ordinary.
							January 2nd.
	Yesterday was rainy—to-day being favor-
able, we ascended five hundred and twelve
marble steps, which brought us to the plat-
form of the great cupola of the Cathedral
above mentioned, where we had a most
delightful view of the whole city; and but
for a fog which encircled the distant horizon,
we might have seen the surrounding chains
of snow-capped mountains in the distance.
	To-morrow morning we leave for Venice.
	Yours with love.
							Eliza R. Szow.

						Venice, Italy,
							Jan. 5th, 1873.
Beloved Sister Horne:—
	We arrived here on the 3rd, the same
evening I received a note with your signa-
ture attached. In acknowledging the
receipt I would give expression to my feel-
ings were it in my power to do so, but I
leave you to imagine. 	*	*	*	*		
Venice is a very interesting city, both on
account of its history and its singular loca-
tion, Approaching it, for a considerable
distance, the railroad track is laid on artificial
ground, with water lying on each side.
When we arrived at the commodious depot,
gondolas were waiting to take us to “Grand
Hotel Victoria;” and with two gondolas for
our persons—four in each—and one for our
baggage, we landed on the threshold of our
hotel.
	This city is said to have been built on
seventy-two islands. Pedestrians can go into
all parts of the city, but gondolas instead of
horses and carriages are used, the people
having no other means for riding. Yester-
day afternoon, our whole party took a gon-
dola ride, and visited a factory for the
manufacture of glass, where they were
making artificial eyes for men and animals,
together with every fancy ornamental thing
imaginable. The most beautiful looking-
glass I ever saw, with a white glass frame
most delicately wrought, was prized at three
thousand five hundred francs; We were
told that three of the kind were in America,
purchased in Venice.
	Our intelligence from Salt Lake has not
been very profuse. The only paper received
from there is the Salt Lake “Herald,”
which comes occasionally and is a rich treat
to us all. Arrangments are made with brother
Carrington to forward all trans-Atlantic
mail matter from Liverpool to different
points as President Smith designates to him
from time to time. *	*	*	*	By the
“Herald” I learned the sad news of the
death of your lovely, precious daughter. I
can think of no one better prepared to go—
although so young she was ripened for a
higher state of existence. For her there is
no cause for mourning, but when I think of
her father and mother, her young, bereaved
husband, the loss to her brothers and sisters
and the loss to the community where her
noble example has had a purifying influence;
my heart overflows with sympathy and
sorrow. How you will miss her! But
trained as you have been in the Gospel of
Jesus, you know where to look for consola-
tion. God alone can breathe comfort to the
deeply stricken heart. When I think of the
bereaved ones—I feel to mourn, but when I
think of the pure, noble, lovely Julia, whose
earthly mission is so soon accepted, she
spared a longer period of toil, struggle and
suffering, my feelings are buoyant and my
imagination, if I may call it so, follows her
triumphant spirit to the happy abodes of
purity and eternal peace. May the daughters
of Zion imitate her worthy example? God
bless you my dear sister and fill your heart
with his comforting Spirit.
					   Eliza R. Snow.


﻿[For the Exponent. 
		MORAL TEMPERANCE.

	What is temperance? It is a question
often asked and answered by each person
according to his individual views. And 
there is a mental as well as a physical 
side to the question.
	Abstaining from intoxicating liquors, is 
one kind of temperance, but is not broad
enough to comprise the whole. There is
also a temperance in diet, a temperance in
labor, a temperance in speech, and a temper-
ance in thought. But there is one word
which will comprise its full meaning, and
that is—moderation.
	Moderation is the true law of life. "When
this just boundary is passed, then the action
or attribute degenerates into unworthiness;
as a lean traveling to a fixed point of the
compass, may pass the boundary of distance
and lessen instead of increasing the space
between himself and his starting point.
	Thus, “Eat but little” is a wise precept;
and, followed with due moderation, will 
give its disciple health, strong nerves, a clear
intellect and a cheerful, happy temper; and,
used thus is true temperance. But it is 
plain to any child, that carried to excess, it 
will weaken the parts even unto death. 
	Speech is a physical power, and how often
are we exhorted to use it temperately.
The person who uses mild, temperate 
language, is far more readily believed than 
one who raves.
	And in the exercise of the mind, if we are 
moderate, we are temperate. The pursuit 
of knowledge is most noble and praise- 
worthy; it develops our mental powers to
great strength and activity; but over-exert
them, and reason is hurled from her throne,
or the golden thread of life is snapped asunder.
	So it is with the moral nature. Cultivate 
any of the emotions prudently, and they
will be as hands and feet to us, or even as 
wings to bear us to realms of happiness; but
press them too warmly, or pursue them too 
eagerly and they wither in our grasp or 
elude us entirely, leaving behind miserable
caricatures to mock us.
	Thus, humility is a heavenly grace in
man or woman, but beyond a certain degree,
its abject and contemptible.
	Pride, that pride which disdains to stoop


to anything low and mean, is a most en-
obling virtue; but follow it beyond the verge
of moderation, and it degenerates into
haughtiness and even vanity.
	Love, that heavenly radiance which glori-
fies the meanest surroundings, lifts the
weakest of mortals to a level with the
angels, nerves the most timid to do and dare
where the bravest might shrink, and, like
the "little leaven which leavens the whole,”
purifies and sanctifies hearts which nothing
else could reclaim, is a name sorely misap-
plied. Alas, that it should be so! but many,
by giving unrestrained liberty to all the
emotions which it awakens in their peculiar
natures, and pursuing the object with head-
long speed, miss it altogether and grasp,
instead—passion; that adder to sting the
heart that warms it.
	Hate when kept within due bounds and
directed against sin, but not sinners, may be
a faithful pilot to warn us of moral rocks and
shoals; but once give it command of the
bark of life, and prejudice, obstinacy and
revenge are soon placed in high positions,
and the wages they award are misery and
ruin.
	We are even told that "Fobearance ceases
to be a virtue” at times.
	And ambition, when directed in proper
channels and pointed to a noble aim, sustains
the human heart through many and bitter
reverses, strengthens hope and patience,
rouses the latent energies of the soul and
nerves it to brave battle with difficulty; but
it must be subjected to the rules of temper-
ance or it will degenerate into a base greed
of power or notoriety, and, like a consuming
flame, devour every gentle impulse, kind-
ness, mercy, love and even justice; grasping
all advantages without remorse or shame.
	Without the aid of temperance, the soft
and gentle attributes of the soul would lead
us to driveling imbecility; and the strong,
aspiring sentiments to recklessness, ruin,
torment.
	How urgent, then, the necessity for culti-
vating temperance in all things, physical,
mental and moral; that just discrimina-
tion between right and wrong, which shall
lead us onward and upward, temperately,
moderately, steadily, until we conquer all
weaknesses of the flesh and mortality and
so win the fadeless crown of immortality
which is—pefection.
							L. L. D.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

		WHY WASH MONDAY?

	"THERE'S ne’er a bit of comfort took
	Upon the washing day"
Has been verified in thousands of homes
where steam, suds, confusion, a “picked up”
dinner and cross looks, if not words, are
always the accompaniements of that dreaded
Monday. But why do you select Monday as
the washing day? If you have no better
reason than because your grandmother
always did, it would be about as sensible for
your husband to go to mill with the grist in
one end of the bag and a stone in the other, to
balance, because that was his grandfather’s
way. If you keep the Sabbath and do no
work on that day that can be dispensed with,
you will find more to do on Monday than
any other day of the week. Then the
Saturday’s baking has vanished and needs
to be renewed, and there are always little
things to be done preparatory to washing
—garments to be finished or mended and
clothes to be put to soak.
	Tuesday is a much more covenient day for
washing, and the work will be rendered
lighter by the preparations of the previous
day--preparations which ought not to be made
on the Sabbath. Then don’t exert yourself
too much for the sake of getting the washing
done by some particular hour. I know
whereof I speak; for haven’t I arisen while
it was yet night, just late enough to escape
the sin of the good deacon’s wife, who
washed on Sunday, and accomplished the
washing before breakfast; sustained through
the unaccustomed hours of labor, and for the
loss of sleep, by the thought that my long
line of snowy clothes would excite the envy
and admiration of my neighbors when they
first looked out in the morning. Then be-
cause the clothes were dried, spinkled, and
folded in the morning, I have done the
ironing in the afternoon, and have finished
that Monday’s performances by going to bed
and staying there the rest of the week sick.
	If you cannot get the washing done in
time to have the clothes dried the same day,
leave them in the rinsing-water till the
next; or if your washings are very large,
take two days for it,—anything rather than
have the washing-day so filled with hard
work and confusion for which the clean
clothes it produces are no compensation, nor
to the tired-out house-wife for the severe
labors of that ever to-be-dreaded day.—
Moore’s “Rural New Yorker.”
	ARSENICAL POISONING.—Persons inhabit-
ing rooms, the walls of which are covered
with paper colored with Schele’s green, or
in which are kept objects of natural history
preserved with arsenical preparations, are
alike liable to suffer from poisoning. Arsen-
ious gases are developed by the reaction of
arsenious acid upon the organic compound
with which it comes in contact, and the air
and dust of the room become dangerously
charged with poisonous matter.
	A CHEAP DISINFECTANT.—The following
is highly commended by those who have
used it:—Dissolve a bushel of salt in a barrel
of water, and with the salt water slack a
barrel of lime, which should be wet enough
to form a kind of paste. For the purpose of
a disinfectant, this home-made chloride of
lime is nearly as good as that purchased at
the shops and drug stores.    Use it freely
about sinks, cellars, gutters, and outhouses,
and in this way prevent sickness, suffering,
and expense.
	TO COLOR SHEEP SKINS.—Unslacked
lime and litharge equal parts, mixed to a
thin paste with water, will color buff—
several coats will make it a dark brown; by
adding a little ammonia and nitrate of silver
a fine black is produced. Terra japonica
will impart a “tan color” to wool, and the red
shade is deepened by sponging with a solu-
tion of lime and water, using a strong
solution of alum water to “set” the colors; 1
part crystallized nitrate silver, 8 parts car-
bonate ammonia, and 1 1/2 parts of soft water
dyes brown; every additional coat darkens
the color until a black is obtained.
	LEMON TWISTS.—Take a pound of flour,
half a pound of butter and twelve ounces of
loaf sugar, with enough essence of lemon to
flavor and a teaspoonfull sal volatile; pour
in beaten eggs and sufficient milk to moisten
the paste; roll it out, cut it into strips, plait
them together in threes, brush the outside
with milk, strew beaten sugar upon the tops
and bake the twists upon buttered tins about
twenty minutes. Grated lemon peel and
juice may be substituted for the essence.


﻿BRET[-] Harte, according to the Chicago
Journal, was arrested in Boston for an un-
paid tailor’s bill.
	MRS. Samuel Colt makes $800,000 a year
by the sale of revolvers. She supplies the
New York markets liberally.


﻿	FACTS AND FIGURES.

	A GRAND central depot is to be built in
Boston.
	St. Louis erected 1,500 new buildings
last year.
	THE Maine Agricultural College has 71
students.
	THE new chapel for Yale College is to cost
$100,000.
	BRAZIL is the best customer for New-
foundland codfish.
	THE ice crop on the Hudson will reach
1,500,000 tons this season.
	SENATOR Patterson has been offered the
Presidency of the Ohio Agricultural College.
	SAN Francisco has made 7,000 kangaroo
hides into fine boots.
	“ZION'S Herald,” of Boston, has celebrated
its fiftieth birthday.
	THE present is the worst hunting season
England has known for years.
	SOME 500 horses have been clipped by
machinery in Boston this Winter.
	THE number of emigrants who left Liver-
pool for America in 1872 was 164,000.
	MR. Poole, the famous London tailor, is
about to retire from business with £500,000.
	MME. de Perinot has left 20,000 francs to
the French Academy to found a prize for
astronomical researches.
	INDIANA farmers band together and run
saur kraut factories on the same principle
that cheese factories are conducted.
	OVER thirty brave and sensible girls in the
high school of Portland have resolved to
discard overskirts, laces, jewelry, and other
expensive articles of dress while attending
school.
	CONNECTED with Mr. Spurgeon’s Sunday 
school, in London, is a Bible class, taught by
Mrs. Lavinia Harkness, which enrolls nine 
hundred women, and has an average attend-
ance of over five hundred.
	MRS. General Sanderson, of Washington,
Ohio, owns a box, said to have been brought
to America by Cortez, when he came to con-
quer Mexico. It Is inlaid with ivory, and
its ago is thought to be about four hun-
dred years.
	Fisk University, the colored educational
institution at Nashville, Tenn., has profited
so largely by its band of “Jubilee singers,”
who have been traveling through the North,
that it will erect a fine college building from
the proceeds.
	A GERMAN Countess, who is an earnest
Catholic, has made a curious vow, to present
to the Pope every year a purse of gold coin
and a baptized Jew. The first of these
offerings was made a short time since, the
Jew being made a member of the church at
Basilica, with imposing ceremonies.
	SOUTH African papers tell of a farm of
240,000	acres, on which is a flock of 10,000
sheep—besides 10,000 Angora goats—which
are said to be far more profitable there than
sheep, and there is a promise of a rapid
extension of these flocks. The Angora goat
wool, as produced there, is much finer than
that of the sheep.
	FRANCE not only lost provinces, armies,
and an immense sum of money through the
late war with North Germany, but by the
session of Metz, she lost a military library,
of which there is not the equal left in the
Republic. This celebrated institution con-
tained 40,000 printed volumns, many of
which were extremely rare, besides numer-
ous manuscripts and drawings, many of
which were of a highly precious character.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE SEX.

	GENERAL Schenck’s youngest daughter is
to marry an English nobleman.
	M. M. POMEROY’S first wife offers the La
Crosse Opera House for sale.
	TWO American female physicians, both
from Chicago, are practising in Edinburgh.
	MADAME Hyacinthe is “at home” Satur-
day evenings at her residence in Brussels.
	QUEEN Victoria’s signature is elegantly
formed, with each letter beautifully cut.
	MR. Greeley’s daughters are spending the.
winter in New York, with their aunt, Mrs.
Cleavland.
	MISS Lydia A. Whitney has purchased
one-half of the "Presque Isle (Me.) Sun-
rise."
	THE mother of Rubinstein, the pianist, is
a celebrated music-teacher in Moscow, and
said to be very wealthy.
	MISS Hosmer is said to have sufficient
orders to keep her busy with chisel and
mallet for the next five or six years.
	SALLIE Ada Vance has become editor of
the Lexington, Mississippi “Advertiser.”
Her Salutatory is said to be well written.
	THE Crown Princess of Germany is mak-
ing a design for a monument, to be erected
on the field of Weissenburg by the officers of
he third army.
	A FEMALE pharmaceutist, Miss S. M
Harding, has been appointed Dispenser to
the Hospital for Women, at Birmingham,
England.
	CELIA Burleigh says that one of the most
singular things in woman’s nature is the
naturalness with which they gravitate to-
wards “cussedness” in the opposite sex.
	A KEROSENE lamp exploded at Rush
River, Wisconsin, recently, a piece of the
glass striking a young lady on the throat,
cutting it deeply, and causing speedy death.
	A MAN at Janesville, Minnesota, was re-
cently beaten by his wife. The woman was
arrested and fined fifty dollars for the assault,
which the husband was obliged to pay.
	A MODERN writer says:	“In Germany,
woman has a sad life, she seems to be of a
lower order than man. It is nothing but
work, work, work, for her, while the men
are visiting Beer Gardens.”
	MISS Lena Clark, daughter of a banker in
Newton, Iowa, walked seven miles from
the Junction to Jefferson, when the therm-
ometer marked thirty degrees below zero,
because the train was belated. She holds
the position of cashier in the bank.
	THE Swiss “Times” reports that Mont
Blanc has been successfully ascended by
three English young ladies, named Murray,
aged respectively twenty-one, seventeen and
fourteen. The youngest of the party a girl
of twelve, had to relinquish the attempt.
	MISS Lizzie Duffer, Miss Alice Hagey and
Miss Kate January, at the Murfreesboro,
Tenn., Agricultural Fair contended for pre-
eminence In the high art of cookery, the
prize being a fine cooking stove. Each
young woman came at the appointed time,
provided with provisions of her own selec-
tion, and in turn took charge of the cook
room. Miss January was the winner.
	LASt summer a party of girls were
directed by the driver of a street car in
Boston to get on by the front platform,
although getting on in that way is contrary
to the rules of the company. One of the
girls was thrown under the wheels and
severely injured. She brought suit against
the company and recovered $5,000 damages,
a verdict since confirmed by the Supreme
Court.


CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.	
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.
	We would respectfully call your attention to the
fact, that we have one of the Largest and best Stocks
of Ladies', Misses' and Children’s FURS in Sets, as
also Capes and Collars (separate), that will be found
in this City. Also a large assortment of Fine Shoes
of Philadelphia and California make. 
	The above goods we will sell at the lowest possible
price.
					DUNFORD & SONS,
							SALT LAKE CITY.

Z. C. M. I.
	RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.
	To meet the demand of an increasing business we
have added an essential addition to our
				RETAIL ROOM,
wherein the most economical buyer can be suited.
It is our highest ambition to suit our various visitants
and purchasers, and to display our varied fabrics
regardless of purchase.
	This department aims to suit the demands of all
whether in
	DOMESTIC OR FANCY DRESS GOODS,
either by the yard or piece.
				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup't.

			NEW CLUB RATES.

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do

10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-			$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club 	-	-	-	-			 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12 x 16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50		-	-	  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-				  48 00

	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the Exponent.
FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
				H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
DR. W. H. GROVES,
						DENTIST,
	Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
		Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

			A UTAH LADIES’ JOURNAL.
	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.
	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.
	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!"
	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.
	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.
	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.
	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal, 
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from 
her numerous duties.
	WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the 
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.
	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
  1 Copy one year,	    $2.00	    1 Copy six months.  $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00 	  10 Copies six months, 9.00
	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.
	Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


Woman's Exponent.

VOL I. 	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1873. ﻿   No. 20.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MISS R. L. HOYT carries off the prize
awarded for excellent drawing in the Lon-
don Kensington Art-School; so the ladies
may "hurrah for our side" again.
	MISS KATIE Barton, of Boston, has in-
vented an improvement on sewing machines,
for the marking of sails, tents, awnings, etc.;
she should be acknowledged a representative
of women.
	REPUBLICAN Massachusetts refuses wo-
man the right to vote, by direct action of
the State Legislature. What about the
woman suffrage plank in the State Repub-
lican platform? 
	A YOUNG lady in Maine who had taken
no interest in the cause of woman suffrage,
has been converted to it by hearing it abused
by a young unmarried minister. Preachers
should be cautious how they arouse femi-
nine combativeness.
	SEVEN thousand women of St. Louis
petition the legislature of Missouri to repeal
the law licensing the social iniquity in St.
Louis. It would be better to compel the
men, under whose patronage the vice
flourishes, to take out licenses as well as the
women, who are often their victims.
	ONE CENT a day is to be contributed by
each lady member of the Congregational
churches in Iowa, for five years, with the
view of an endowment fund of $20,000 for
the female department of the State College.
The object is a laudable one, and worthy of
encouragement and success. 
	THE COMMITTEE to investigate charges
against U. S. Senator Patterson unanimously
reported a resolution that he be expelled
the Senate for corruption and perjury.
Grave as are the charges, thus unanimously
endorsed, the Senate has not yet expelled
Patterson. But it passed the Frelinghuysen
bill.
	EX-VICE PRESIDENT Colfax has delivered
several speeches lately to show how inno-
cent he was of the charges made against him
in regard to the Credit Mobilier business;
and he has succeeded in convincing a very
large number of people that he was guilty
as charged, while his friends, cling all the
closer to him. Perverse human nature!
	“AN OBJECT of interest” is what more
than one worthy (?) Utah office, provision
and raiment-seeker has been determined to
become, ere the offices should be all supplied
or Congress should adjourn; and ought they
not now to be satisfied? For this they have
nearly all succeeded in making of them-
selves-"simply this, and nothing more!”
	ON THE 26th of February a Convention
was held in New York for the purpose of
securing a Constitutional amendment,
acknowledging the existence of God in that
instrument. No better amendment could
be made than the adopting of the original
Constitution of the United States, which
has been utterly disregarded by many of
the descendants of its framers.
	IN A late discussion in Congress, on in-
creasing the pay of the members, General
Banks said, arguing in favor of increased
pay because of the increased price of living,
that it was Edward Everett's advice to him
"never to be separated from his family."
This or anything that would have a tendency
to reduce immorality among national legis-
lators and at the federal capital, would be a
public benefit.
	THE REV. J. D. Fulton regards polygamy
as far more scriptural than woman suffrage;
and the agitation of the latter, he alleges,
causes a great decrease in the number of
boy babies. This is a serious matter; for if
the theory be correct, the agitation will
have to be stopped by granting the right of
suffrage to the women or polygamy may
become compulsory in another generation
or so, to prevent the race from dying out.
	AMONG THE late applications for office we
note that of Mrs. Anne Savery, of Des
Monies, Iowa, who is a candidate for
United States Consul at Havre. How this
practical exhibition of woman’s rights would
take in France, should her application be
successful, it is difficult to say; but were
she to seek and obtain the same appoint-
ment for Kiel, or any other German town,
it certainly would not be relished by the
authorities and officials of "Fatherland."
	THE FOLLOWING extract from the Wash-
ington "Star" is of more than usual interest:
"Woman's rights have at length been
recognized in high quarters in England. A
department of the civil service, known as
the local govermment board, has just ap-
pointed a lady poor-law inspector at the
very handsome salary of $2,000 a year to
report upon the domiciles and the treatment
of children who are "boarded out," after
the system which is generally adopted in
Scotland. Mrs. Tassau Senior is the lady
upon whom this distinction has been con-
ferred.” 
	AN EASTERN paper says: "A bill has
been favorably reported to the New York
assembly to incorporate the Young Ladies'
Christian Association of the city of New
York. The object of this corporation is
stated to be the improvement of the
temperance, social, mental, moral and
religious condition in New York. The fifth
article forbids these ladies to manage their
property except with the consent of an advis-
ory committee, named in the charter, and
composed of ten men. The same section
prohibits the associated young ladies from
indulging in wine, whisky, ale or lager
beer, and from gambling in the rooms and
on the premises of the association."
	PRESIDENT GRANT was inaugurated with
great festivities on the 4th inst., the com-
mittee on inauguration having refused to
accede to the petition from certain parties
in the State of New York, urging that a
grand inauguration prayer meeting be held
instead of a ball. The idea of commingling
prayer and dancing is evidently not a
familiar one with the petitioners, any more
than with the inauguration committee.
When one reads the account of the festivi-
ties, the magnificence and the display of
wealth, the mind naturally wanders back to
the days of republican simplicity, and the
thought comes questioning where that
simplicity has gone, and whether such
splendors are not more fitting for an im-
perial court than for "a government of the
people, by the people, and for the people,"
which ours is supposed to be.
	TO HEAR some men talk it would seem
that the chief end of existence was to enjoy
the appetites, and that the greatest charms
of life were whisky and tobacco. On this
theory, the more disgusting and filthy they 
make themselves the happier they are; and
their course would indicate that they be-
lieved in the theory. Is it any wonder that
pure women would cling to a pure man who
shunned and despised such vile and degrad-
ing habits?
	THE SEASON for tourists and travelers will
soon commence, and clergymen will be
relieved for a time from their "arduous
labors" of preaching a couple of times in the
week, and furnished with money to take a
little rest and recreation. It is strange that
this class of men should be so troubled
with bronchitis; strange how women who
have to use the larynx and bronchial tubes
more, are not so easily affected; strange how
"Mormon" Elders, and editors, who work
infinitely harder, have so little solicitation
bestowed upon their health; and strange,
too, how there should be such great neces-
sity that clergymen should travel so much
for their personal benefit—at half rates on
the railroad. Oh, things are wonderfully
changed since the ancient Apostles of the
Savior fished all night for a living;
hawked their fish to market, themselves
barefooted; and then preached in the even-
ing! Who ever heard of Peter, James and
John; or of Brigham, Orson or Wilford in
these latter-days, being sent out on a tour
by steamship and cabin, for the benefit of
their health, and to seek relief from a
bronchial affection?
	THREE YOUNG ladies were lately mur-
dered, two in New Hampshire and one in
Maryland, under most revolting circum-
stances and in a  horrible manner. The
Maryland murderer subsequently threw
himself under a passing freight-train and
was crushed to death. The New Hampshire
one is now in prison awaiting his trial.
Such reports are almost of daily occurrence,
from large cities and country places; and
show that with all the progress made in art,
science and education, crime keeps pace
with the boasted advance of the age, if it
does not lead it. Were the self-proclaimed
philanthropists who are so anxious to con-
vert the people of Utah to a belief in the
necessity of vice, corruption, outrage and
bloodshed, to exert their influence towards
repressing crime nearer home they might
be of some service to society. And if they
wish us to pattern after the society in which
they are shining examples, it would be well
to present us with a pattern for which they
would not have just cause to hide their
faces in burning shame. But while un-
bridled passion, bloodthirstiness and brutal
desires are so rampant, we beg to be per-
mitted to work out our own social problem
in peace, and see if we cannot produce a
better condition of society than is to be
found anywhere else.


GREAT BRITAIN will send an artisan com-
mission of eighty members to Vienna.
	PROF. Tyndall will give all the money he
makes in this country to some scientific
institution.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
﻿


﻿ANSWER TO A VALENTINE.

			FROM J. R.

Dear Sir:—
	Your counsel wise and good,
Is kind, if never needed;
And being clearly understood
Shall be as strictly heeded.

I know 'twas said by Solomon,
“There is a time for all things;"
But 'tis not written, every one
Shall do b th great and small things:

And those who seek the world’s applause,
And love vain approbation;
Have not the spirit of the Cause
Of Truth, and true Salvation.

l know it were not wise to yield
To worldy, false ambition:
I'd labor in a richer field—
Fulfill a holier mission.	
							L. L.


F. R. Society Reports

		Mill Creek Ward 
			Salt Lake Co., Feb. 18, 1873.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—	
	At a meeting of the Relief Society of this
Ward, held in the Ward-house on the 11th
inst., the word “Female” was dropped from
the name of the Society by unanimous
vote. This Society is in every way, in a
healthy and prosperous condition. We hold
our  meetings monthly, which are well
attended. In a short time we shall have
ready a very suitable hall for meetings and
the business operations of the Society,
		Rhoda Ann Miller, President,

			Salem, Utah County,
				February 16th, 1873.
Editor Woman’s Exponent;—
	The Salem Relief Society was organized
January 7th, 1869, with Mary E. Reed,
President; Mrs. Lucinda Jackman and Mrs.
Sarah W. Curtis, Counselors; Matilda P.
Killian, Secretary and Esther M. Reed,
Treasurer. During the four years since our
organization, our means has been very
limited, yet, we have been able to meet
every demand upon our charity. We have
thirty dollars in the Co-operative store, and
a little sum, (seventeen dollars) which we
are enlarging every week, to aid in gather-
ing the poor; then we still have in the
treasury, besides the above, cash and
property to the amount of one hundred and
twenty-two dollars. We are prospering and
feel to thank God for the wisdom and
knowledge that has enabled us, thus far, to
fill the mission that has been given us as
honorably as we have done. The sisters are
united in their efforts to do good and help
to build up the Kingdom of God upon the
earth that they may receive the reward of
the faithful.
			M. P. Killian, Secretary.

		Newton, Cache Co., U. T.
			February 12th, 1873.
Editor Woman's Exponent:—
	At a meeting of our Relief Society, held
January 3rd, 1873, a motion to have the
word “Female” dropped from the name,
according to Sister Eliza R. Snow’s sugges-
tion, was carried by a unanimous vote.
	Although our Society is not so forward as
others, our desire is to continue to do all
the good we can until circumstances will
admit of our doing more. Our settlement
is new; we have labored under various disad-
vantages. The means accumulated, has
been used in relieving the needy, and feed-
ing the Indians. We hope to be able to do
more in the future than we have done in
the past.
	Your valuable paper is much appreciated
here, and it is the expressed desire of many
to subscribe for it as soon as circumstances
will permit.
		Isadora Beck, President.
	A. M. Young, Secretary.

	The General Retrenchment meeting at
the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, in this
city, Saturday, March 1st, was very well
attended. The spirit of unity and the desire
to improve in knowledge of a useful char-
acter appear to increase with the sisters.
And from the many impressive and sanguine
testimonies borne, it might well be inferred
that the doings of Congress at that critical
time, or other worldly missiles which might
be aimed to overthrow the Kingdom of the
great God, had but little weight on the
minds of the faithful daughters of Zion.

	Third Ward Relief Society,
		Provo City-, March 9th, 1873,
Dear Exponent:—
	At a meeting in November, our Society
voted unanimously to drop the word "Fe-
male,” and a report was at once forwarded,
together with money for four numbers of
the Exponent; which, owing to some mis-
take, carelessness or dishonesty in some
quarter, you did not receive,
	Our Society is doing well; our ward is
small and not well off, but we have no in-
digent poor. We give assistance occasionally,
but have no steady pensioners. We feel an
interest in the welfare of our excellent paper,
and in the rolling forth of the work of God.
	M. J. Tanner, President.

			WOMAN'S VOICE
Editor Exponent:—	
	Dear Sister:—I think it the duty of
mothers, who have been long in the Church,
to write for the instruction of their
daughters to give counsel to the young,
and try to impress them with the love of
chastity and goodness; to teach them not
to follow the vain fashions of the world, but
to seek to be prudent and temperate in all
their ways; not to covet the empty pleasures
and treasures of earth alone, but to secure
to themselves peace and joy everlasting—
the riches of eternity.
	We have examples among the mothers
in Israel worthy of imitation, and which, if
we follow, we shall not be led astray. I feel
that mothers should be awake to their duties
in training their children in the love of
truth and the ways of rectitude; and I pray
that the daughters of Zion may have wisdom
to so direct their offsprings that they may
have power over all evil and overcome the
ways of darkness.
				Sarah Roberts;
	Goshen.

				Springville,
					Feb. 20th, 1873.
	In looking over the Exponent my mind
has been led through many scenes, some of
joy and some of sorrow; and I find it con-
tains sympathy for every heart. It is a
heavenly work, when we can do so, to bind
up the broken heart. If we are rich in
knowledge, and God has blest us with the
light of His Holy Spirit to do good, it is
joy to us to seek out the depressed, the poor,
the widow and orphan and impart to them,
both of our heart’s sunshine and of our sub-
stance. The Gospel we have received
teaches us to be full of charity to mankind,
and let our love for each other flow as a
fountain of living waters. I can truly say
since I have been a member of the Relief
Society, it has been a school of improvement
to me, for which I thank God. True happi-
ness is offered to every faithful son and
daughter. If we live as peace-makers we
are filling our missions, if not, we live below
our calling and will be accountable for our
folly. If mothers will live in the light of
the Gospel they will have influence with
and great blessings for their children.
This the Lord requires at their hands. We
have the same fountain of light and intelli-
gence from which to gain a fullness of
the blessings of life, that has been enjoyed
by the Saints in every age, when God has
had a prophet to reveal His mind and will
to the children of men on earth. With an
experience of 31 years in the Church, I can
testify that the Gospel made known to
brother Joseph Smith, by the Angel that
John saw was to come forth in the last days,
is true; and the powers of darkness can not
stay the progress of the work of our God.
This is something to live for. It keeps the
hopes and affections bright and lends addi-
tional charms to all in nature that is amiable
and lovely. And all who labor in this
glorious cause, have their reward.
				Hannah Harrison.

		Cottonwood, Feb. 28, 1873.
Editor Exponent:—
	I have read your paper with pleasure and
interest; and now, have a desire to mingle
my testimony with those of my sisters who
testify to the sacred truth of the Gospel-
work in which we are engaged. To-day I
know this is the Church of Christ; that
plural marriage, as well as the other prin-
ciples which it contains, was ordained of
God, for the blessing and exaltation of the
Saints. And I believe it to be the duty of
every Latter-day Saint to teach and practice
that truth as well as the rest. And that
every mother should teach her children, as 
well by example as precept, to seek out
and understand for themselves, correct
principles. The Lord has given us a
glorious light, and except we follow it
steadily and prayerfully, we may expect to
be soon left in the dark, and that we will
become more blind than we were ere the
light beamed upon us.
	Daughters of  Zion, let us be mindful.
						Theresa.

		Ogden City, Feb. 3rd, 1873.
Dear Editor:—
	Having been a subscriber to your excel-
lent paper since its commencement, and
seeing the wide scope you have provided
the "Mormon" ladies, for expressing their
sentiments and portraying their position, I
venture to address you a few words. In
the first place, I feel thankful that the time
has come when the women of this Church
can publish their views, and that too, through
a woman's Journal. And I hope they all
feel as I do, that they would not be without
the paper.
	Now, for myself. For fifteen years I lived
in monogamy—bound to a "drunkard," who
used to come home and curse and swear,
and with whom my life was in constant
jeopardy. I cannot tell what I endured,
but I thank my Heavenly Father for my
deliverance, for my happy home in these
valleys, and for my good, faithful husband
in the Kingdom of God, who is a "polygam-
ist," honorable and worthy, and who has
not tasted of any kind of strong drink for
twenty-five years. This I consider, speaks
volumes. I am now living in "polygamy"
of my own free will and choice.
	It is woman's mission to do good—to per-
form, each one her faithful work, which
will bring its own reward. Any woman


can do good every day of her life if she
chooses. To her it is given to create sun-
shine in her home, however lowly it may
be; to comfort those that mourn, and to
bless with cheerful smiles and words of
encouragement all with whom she is associ-
ated.
	I am glad to read of the success of the
Relief Societes in different parts of the Ter-
ritory, and think the EXPONENT a splendid
means of making the sisters in the Societies
acquainted with each other.		
	I will conclude with kind wishes and
earnest prayers for all who engage in the
great work—the Emancipation of Woman
and the establishment of Truth.
							E. McKay.

		MILL CREEK WARD,
			Salt Lake City, Feb. 18, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	I do not purpose to say much. It is not
my calling to write for a public journal, yet
I desire to say a few words in an humble
way. 
	I am well advanced in years; am the
mother of ten children, and have had an ex-
perience in Celestial or Patriarchal marri-
age for the last twenty-five years, an experi-
ence that many of my sisters have not had.
	It is then of this great and eternal princi-
ple of truth that I wish to bear testimony.
	The rulers of our nation are moving "en
masse to abolish Plural or Patriarchal Mar-
riage, by enactments of stringent and severe
laws, which are not founded in justice,
truth or mercy, but are at war with our
sacred Republican institutions, and with the
only true order of marriage known in the
law of God, or that has ever been revealed
to man by the revelations of Heaven.
	When you take away, in the resurrection,
or in the life which is to come (in the great
plan of man’s redemption,) our sacred marri-
age ties, our family relations, “the Patri-
archal order, that God has ordained,” what
is left? What kind of a heaven is there for
us to inherit? Certainly none worth living
for; but the pious rulers of our nation, and
such “divines” as Parson Newman are
welcome to inherit such—the Latter-day
Saints do not want it.
	The first marriage celebrated on the earth
was for time and for all eternity. When
Adam took his wife he did not know of any
death. There was no “man-made” sectarian
ceremony about this union; no simple
“you take this woman to be your wife
until seperated by death,” No! the bond
reached from earth to the eternities and the
union was as eternal as God himself.
	Through the great atonement of Jesus
Christ, and the keys of authority in the
Everlasting Priesthood that Peter held, will
evreything be restored to man that was lost
in the fall. And Father Adam will have
his wife, or wives. And the faithful Latter-
day Saints, in the resurrection, by the same
Authority, that "binds on earth and it is
bound in heaven," "will have every wife
and child" that is faithful and adheres to 
the laws of God in the days of their proba-
tion. And the rulers of the nations cannot
prevent it. Their power may be felt by the
Church, and by individuals. This has been
the case in other ages of the world's history,
yet the eternal principles and purposes of
God remain the same. Man cannot abolish
what God has ordained. 
					RHODA ANN MILLER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WORDS of cheerful encouragement often
do more good than costly presents.
	LORENZA Silva, a Mexican lady, died
with the weight of 150 years, less eleven
days, on her head.


(For the EXPONENT,
HONEST HEARTS vs. POLlSHED MAN-
				NERS.

	“Give me the honest heart and the rough
bark;” says Bro. Gruff, and—“Mark my
words, that fellow is too polite to be honest.”
	Wherefore, brother? Is not politeness
truly a christian grace? and is it absolutely
necessary to sacrifice honesty in order to
achieve politeness? If so, by all means
choose honor as the greater virtue; but I
doubt if a person can be truly and thoroughly
honest without being polite. As I under-
stand the term, “politeness” signifies “con-
siderate kindness of manners.”
	Is there anything wrong in being consid-
erate of another’s rights, feelings, or even
whims? or rather, does not the absence of
such consideration betoken dishonesty?
	Because it is pleasant and graceful, is it
any the less honest to say “I beg pardon,”
after slightly injuring another’s rights or
feelings? And are not smiling “Thank
you’s” for little favors received, as much
more honest as more charming than grim
silence? If our sons stand in easy, graceful
attitudes, are capable of executing captivat-
ing bows, are never culpable of wearing hats
nor whistling indoors, and never talk slang,
is it any shadow of an argument that their
morals are not good? If so, I am too blind
to perceive it.
	“But” argues Bro. Gruff, “a polished man-
ner is so good a cloak for rogues to hide
their wickedness under.” Now that would
imply that rogues are generally polished;
but I venture the assertion, that for one
polished rascal you will find ten rude ones;
but, admitting that it is not so, why con-
demn a virtue in order to reach a vice?
Discriminate, and condemn insincerity, in-
stead of the virtue counterfeited.
	There never was a counterfeit without
a true coin to copy from, and if rogues try
to hide their villainy behind a pleasing
address, that of itself is a proof of its worth;
for no one would take the trouble to copy
anything so intrinsically worthless as to be
inadequate to their aims. Besides, there
is no counterfeit so clever as to defy all
tests, and if polished rogues, by their fair
exterior lead any astray, it is through the
victims' vanity, greed, envy or other weak-
ness, and herein is an all-sufficient test; If
any one addresses himself to such feelings
he is thus far dishonest and should be
shunned; but so long as his urbanities appeal
to our nobler and better sentiments, there
is no harm in him, let his secret principles
be what they may. But the moment his
fingers strike a key, which does not cord
with honor, beware!
	One wiser than we, said, “Be courteous,”
and to do so, does not require us to be in-
sincere or crafty. Honesty and polished
manuers are not antagonistic; they are
individual flowers in the ambrosial bouquet
of graces; and because one may be fairer
or sweeter than another, is no reason for
discarding the other. Beloved youth, fear
not to cultivate a pleasant addess, for, thus
draped, your pure integrity will be doubly
alluring and effective. ’Tis but a choice
in habits, after all, and since we cannot
avoid forming habits of some kind, pure
gratitude for the choice, should lead you
to choose those which are at once the more
pleasant and the more profitable.
	All things are to be judged by that which
they effect; and civility and grace never
yet injured their possessor, and when not
linked with dishonesty, they just as richly
benefit those who come in contact with
them. A favor asked in a courteous manner
is far more readily granted than one which
savors of demand; and one granted gra-
ciously, gives far more happiness to the
recipient.
	Well bred ways, will secure for you respect
and favor, when your friend of churlish
manners would be severely slighted. 
	Politeness shall be the pure gold setting
for your priceless pearl of honesty.
								L. L. D.


﻿HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

	CARROT SOUP.—Two pounds of carrots,
three ounces of butter, seasoning to taste of
salt and cayenne, two quarts of stock or
gravy soup.
	STEAMED BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING.
—Lay the bread and butter in a basin with
apricot and other jam between; add a custard
as for a baked pudding, and steam it.
	ALDERLY PUDDING.—Two tablespoon-
fuls of ground rice, the same of arrowroot,
the yolks of two eggs, a little grated lemon-
peel, sugar to taste, and one pint of milk
mixed together. Lay a little orange-marma-
lade or other preserve at the bottom, of a
dish, pour over it this mixture, and bake.
	GINGER PUDDING.—One cup not quite full
of suet, two cups of bread-crumbs, two
teaspoonfuls of powdered ginger; mix with
warm molasses, butter a mould or basin,
put in the pudding, and bake; or, if pre-
ferred, steam it in place of baking.
	HOME is the realm in which the wife is
the sovereign, and her sovereignty, will
bring her honor and love according as her
rule over the matters committed to her
trust is wisely and beneficently ordered.
That realm, limited as it is, demands for its
government a much greater and a more
unremitting effort of thought than is always
given to it; for when a wife, intent on mak-
ing the home of her family all that it is  
possible to make it, studies daily how best
by skillful management she can gratify
preferences, please tastes, anticipate wishes, 
keep out of sight little worries, twine pri- 
vations with decorations of love, and lift off
for a while, burdens of care, all of which
appeal to her for thoughtful and graceful
intervention, she seldom fails of securing
her reward which she most dearly prizes.
	A PERSON who has suffered from, or is
subject to, quinsy, should, after an attack
has passed off, use every means of strength-
ening the throat; by this the attacks may
be greatly prevented. Any of the astringent
gargles may be used after quinsy, but none
perhaps answers better, or is more accessible
to the poor, than the decoction of oak bark.
This ought to be used night and morning
for some weeks, and when its use is drop-
ped, the person should acquire the habit of
gargling the throat with cold water at the
above times, “as a regular practice,” and
at the same time should, habitually, lave 
freely with cold water, or salt water at first,
at least, all around the throat. In this way
a tendency to quinsy may be greatly over-
come. Further, all unnecessary muffling,
either by fur or otherwise, about the neck,
should he avoided, for there is no more 
fertile source of sore-throat. Doubtless
many cases of simple soar-throat may be
managed domestically; but the contingen-
cies of crysipelatous or croupy sore-throat, 
or of quinsy, which may suffocate, must
not be lost sight of.


﻿A NIECE of the Pope has lately taken the
veil as a Benedictine nun. 
	SCOTT should be read in the Spring,
Shelly in the fervid Summer, Wordsworth
in Autumn, Cowper and Byron in Winter,
and Shakespeare all the year around.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers Woman’s Exponent,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 15, 1873.


﻿SPLINTERS.

	In the forests of Maine, in the latter part
of February, snow was four feet deep......
The manner in which Poppleton drew tears
out of the eyes of Oaks Aames, is pro-
nounced “beautiful (!)”......There are 1,000
alligators in a hole on James’ Island, near
Charleston, South Carolina......Philadelphia
has contributed a block of marble for the
Washington monument........The standard of
admission to Yale College is to be raised,
doubtless in view of woman’s rights being
universally acknowledged......The Empress
Eugenie is, for her age, young looking;
wears a sweet, pensive expression, and is
beloved by all who have had a chance of
becoming attached to her......The remains
of 117 steam-boats lie on the bottom of the
Arkansas river......Eighteen Cadets, at West
Point, failed to pass and were discharged......
The exhibition building at Vienna was
reported completed in February......Rhode
Island has 3,000 militia......The inaugural
ball given in Washington, on the 5th inst.,
was the grandest ever given in this country.
......Eastport, Maine, has had an earth-
quake......Iron ore is found in twenty-eight
counties, inTennessee...Michigan City claims
to be the second lumber-point on the Lakes.
A boy in Mound City, Kansas, was lately
chased into the river and killed by a cata-
mount......A fever is raging in southwest
Missouri—the “mining fever.”...........The
horse-disease has attacked the cows in Sny-
der county, Pennsylvania......An elegant
boulevard is contemplated at Concord, New
Hampshire......Cold weather in Louisiana
has been destructive to bees in more than
ordinary style this season......Boston fired a
hundred guns on inauguration-day......San
Jose, California, boasts that in its balmy
climate, tomatoes and cats flourish in the
open air all winter.......A Minnesota judge
decides that shaving on Sunday is illegal.
.......A youth in the same State tried to start
his horse by hitting it with his gun which
went off, carrying three of his fingers with
it......Prince Gortschakoff, it is reported,
will settle the boundaries of Afghanistan by
a special Anglo-Russian committee......A
royal decree has been issued in Rome, by
which the Italian Government takes formal
possession of the convents in that city......
Bass, an English beer-brewer, is to be made
a baronet.......Prince Albert of Russia is to
be married in April.......The Russian Czar-
owitz accompanies his mother to Italy for
the benefit of his health......Returns of the
London Board show, that for the year 1872
the foreign trade of Great Britain reached
the enormous total of $3,046,690,000......The
new President of Mexico, Lerdo de Tejada,
is 45 years old, noted for eloquence as an
orator, possessed of great energy and cour-
age, and a lawyer......A new combustible,
said to give more heat and be cheaper than
coal, has lately been discovered in Italy......
It is reported that the Italian Government
has issued imperative instructions to the
Prefect of Turin to impede all emigration to
this country, and to permit only those
Italians to leave who have documentary
assurances of their employment when they
arrive here......A school-teacher in Minne-
sota procured food and bed-clothing from a
neighbor, and kept his entire school in-
doors, refusing any one permission to
attempt to go home during a late, long and
fearful storm......Pope Pius IX  has wit-
nessed the death of 100 Cardinals during his
pontificate of a quarter of a century......Miss
Emerson, of New York, claims the author-
ship of “Betsy and I are out.”......A ninety-
mile walk on snow-shoes was recently
performed by a woman in Michigan......Two
English sisters, in Berlin, have just put up
their sign as dentists......Listz, the music
professor, pronounces a young lady his most
promising pupil. It is Miss Anna Finken-
staedt, who has lately entered the concert-
field......Report says an attempt is being made
to reduce Queen Victoria to poverty by
cutting down her income to the sum paid
the President of the United States......
Ohio has three million acres more of culti-
vated land than Pennsylvania......Congress
prohibits gift photographic establishments
in Washington......Great damage has been
done by recent floods on the Delaware river.
......Montana is considered the best watered
region west of the Mississippi river......A
man in Cleveland has sued that city for
$5,000 for catching the small-pox there......
George Eliot made $40,000 by her "Middle-
march.”......Thirty-nine medals struck in
honor of Benjamin Franklin are owned by a
Bostonian......Miss Emily Faithful has had
large and attentive audiences in Washing-
ton......Mrs. Kate N. Doggett, of Chicago, has
lately delivered a series of Art-lectures
before the Christian Union Association.
......Delaware is to have a Constitutional
Convention on the 20th of May......The facts
and theories of Darwinism are to be lectured
on and explained by Rev. Rowland Connor,
of Florence.


﻿A BLOW AIMED AT WOMAN SUF-
				FRAGE.

	Congress adjourned without the bill directed
against Utah becoming law, although it passed
the Senate in a modified form, but still retain-
ing the provision depriving the women of
Utah of the ballot. This is a point in which
all the women of the United States should be
interested, as far, at least, as they desire to
occupy a political equality, not simply with
men, but such men as are to be found among the
most degraded class of the colored race,
or the most ignorant foreigners that may seek
our shores and desire citizenship. Does any
one think that if Congress were to deprive the
women of Utah of the elective franchise by
repealing the Territorial statute conferring it
upon them, that the same body would imme-
diately turn around and undo its own work,
by again conferring the suffrage on them
through any measure extending that right to
all American women? Those who are agitat-
ing the question, who are working for the
extension of the elective franchise to women
all through the United States, are directly
interested in this matter, for they may rest
assured that the Congress that strikes at the
principle of woman suffrage, by depriving the
women of a Territory of the right to vote, will
not stultify itself by passing or recommending
any measure, nor any Constitutional amend-
ment, recognizing woman’s right to this
political status.	
	The Woman’s Suffrage Association of New
York saw this, and passed a resolution, which
was presented to Congress, protesting against


the blow aimed at woman's rights in the Frel-
inghuysen bill. And advocates of woman’s
cause throughout the entire Union should be
alive to the fact that, if a similar attempt is
made next session of Congress, it will have a
double object, as it had before: to further the
plans for plunder of political adventurers in
this Territorty, and to strike a blow at
the woman’s suffrage cause.
	Most of the men who urge with the most
strenuousness the crusade against the Mormons,
are avowed enemies to the woman’s rights move-
ment in its every aspect; and while they are
without influence to effect anything against it
in the States, they know very well that if they
can get any measure through Congress in
opposition to it and attacking it in a Territory,
they will have successfully made a point.
	Every lecturer, every editor, every person
advocating or interested in the cause of woman,
should make this matter his or her own, in
the event of another attempt to deprive the
women of a Territory of the right of suffrage.


TWO DANGERS.

	There are two dangers to which the Latter-
day Saints are exposed. One is a want of 
that strong faith in the Almighty, necessary to
secure His blessings, often the result of a neg-
lect of duty, a want of prayerfulness, or a
disregard of revealed truths, in consequence of
which the Spirit of God is grieved. The other
is an over confidence in the protection of the
Lord, and acting on the belief that He will
preserve His people from all danger or affliction,
no matter what course they may persue. They
have the promise that He will sustain them
and bear them off triumphantly if they will be
faithful, humble, prayerful, and keep His com-
mandments; yet they have no promise of such
protection if they neglect their covenants and 
disregard the commandments of the Lord. The
Saints have been so visibly preserved from
many threatened dangers, and have so often
been borne in safety over the troubled waters of
affliction, that some seem to imagine they will
continue to be so sustained, under all circum-
stances. Yet the promised blessing is only to
those who seek to sanctify and purify them-
selves before Heaven.
	These are principles which mothers should
inculcate upon their children, upon their sons 
and daughters, that from childhood to maturity
the youth of the community may be trained
in ways and in the practice of principles of
righteousness, that will give them a faith and
a power only received and enjoyed as a result
of living honestly and uprightly before the
Lord, and observing every truth of the Gospel 
of salvation.


﻿HISTORY AND ROMANCE. 

	A young mother wishes to be informed what
difference it can make whether she reads novels
or history to her children, as either will tend
to inspire thought which is the foundation of
mental greatness? She asks how the acts of
individuals in former generations can make
any difference with the people of to-day? Of
what intrinsic importance it can be to her or
her children whether Henry VIII, of England,
divorced Catharine of Arragon and had Ann
Boleyn beheaded, or otherwise? Whether Na-
poleon was longer remembered and more deeply
mourned by Josephine, or Maria Louise?
Whether Mary Queen of Scots was dethroned 
and imprisoned or not? Whether Hannibal
crossed the Alps, or did not leave Africa? Or
if the city of Thebes had one gate or one hun-
dred?


The facts contained in history should not
possess, of themselves, so great interest for
present or future generations, as the motives
which prompted individuals or kingdoms to
work out such facts. Every deed that is, or
has ever been, accomplished, must, in accord-
ance with the laws of nature, be, or have been,
actuated by some design. The histories of
wise and good men and women, tell us of bright
designs wrought out in noble deeds, worthy of
our imitation; those of ambiguous and repre-
hensible characters show us the tedious and
fraudulent way of walking in darkness with no
pure and exalted ambition to instigate to high
and noble purposes.
	History is solid food, in the shape of facts,
from which intellectual and philosophical sus-
tenance may be drawn; romance is a stimulant,
which excites the mental powers only to leave
them weakened, and stirs up passion to seek
gratification, even by unwise if not by un-
righteous means.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	On February 9th, Miss Eliza R. Snow,
with President George A. Smith and party,
was at Alexandria, in Egypt, and the party ex-
pected to start next day for Cairo, the capital
of Egypt. From thence they proposed going
to Suez, Ismailia, and Port Said, taking
steamer at the last named point for Jaffa, in
Palestine.
	An hour spent pleasantly in Professor Mor-
gan's College, a few mornings since, gave us
an assurance that the gentleman or lady who
has the privilege of regular attendance there,
can hardly fail of becoming so much engaged
in whatever branches of study may be pursued,
as to render school-life dry and irksome in no
respect. The management of the commercial
department and the styles of penmanship
exhibited, were particularly interesting. Evi-
dently, the Principal understands his business.
	As if to apologize and make restitution, for
the heavy snow-storms of the middle and latter
part of February, the grand old weather-king
has been smiling so benignly, through the first
days of March, as to give the beginning of
Spring months almost the lovely appearance of
May’s delightful self. As early as the 10th
inst., birds were singing merrily about the
upper windows; an enterprising honey-bee
danced in and out of doors which it happened
to find ajar, warming its glossy wings in the
sunshine; young ladies skipped about the
streets, which were positively becoming dusty,
with light shawls or none at all on; and older
ones sighed over the near approach of the dread-
ful heat of July and August.
	A very interesting meeting of the mem-
bers of the Physiological class was held
at the Social Hall, their regular place
of meeting, on the afternoon of the 11th
inst. After the usual instructions had
been given and received, Miss Martha
Horne, on behalf of the class, made a presenta-
tion to Miss Mary E. Cook, whose services as
teacher of the class have been gratuitously
given since its organization. The gift, which
had been purchased by the class as a small
token in acknowledgement of their thanks for
and appreciation of Miss Cook’s generous
endeavors was a very handsome dish of artificial
fruit, artistically formed and arranged by Mrs.
Wilkinson of this city. Mrs. Sarah M. Kim-
ball, President of the association, made a
short, appropriate address, which was re-
sponded to in suituble terms by Msis Cook,
It was then moved, seconded and carried,
that the name of the Society be changed from
"Phisiological Class" to “Ladies Educational
Association,” which was considered more
appropriate; also that for various individual
and general causes, the meetings be postponed
for one month.
	There was a time when woman’s chastity
was protected in Utah, and the crime of viola-
tion was unknown here. But with the advent
of a class of lawless men there is a sad change;
and women when alone and unprotected are in
hourly danger. A short time ago a lady ar-
rived at Ogden from Piedmont, on the U. P. R.
R., where she had been teaching school. The
train had been delayed by snow, and did not
reach Ogden until a late hour. She was offered
a room, used as an office, near the track, as a
shelter for herself and a baby in her arms, until
morning, the person who made the offer hand-
ing her the key, and saying that he stopped at
a hotel up in the city. She accepted the offer
with thanks, lonely as the place was, locked
herself in the room, and was preparing to seek
what rest she could for the night, when the
villain who had given her the key forced an
entrance into the place, and with leveled pistol
in hand and by violence committed a crime so
black that the only fitting punishment for it
should be death. He escaped, was captured at
Toano, and brought to this city; and is now
committed for trial, being held in bonds of
$5,000 for his appearance. That is: the federal
Judge who committed him, estimates a wo-
man’s outraged chastity and a life-long horror,
at the price indicated. A wealthy scoundrel
may thus commit crime with impunity, of the
most infamous character, if he can pay for it;
while a poor one may have to suffer imprison_
ment. And this is the manner in which
woman, is “protected” by the administrators
of the law who clamor so loudly against “Mor-
mon” men for caring for, preserving, and really
protecting their own wives, while honoring
chastity in all, and guarding it as a priceless
jewel!


﻿THE Prince of Wales, the Emperor of
Germany, the Hospodar of Montenegro and
M. Thiers will be among the royal and other
distinguished guests at the approaching
Vienna Exposition.	
	THE Shah of Persia wishes to make his
European trip without ostentation, so he
will take with him only three princes of the
blood, three ministers of the first class, seven
of the second, and thirty attendants.
	A RECENT calculation relative to the prin-
cipal European languages shows that Eng-
lish is spoken by 90,000,000 of persons,
German by 55,000,000 Spanish by 55,000,000
and French by 45,000,000.
	AN immense Catholic emigration from
Germany is said to be impending, in conse-
quence of the difficulties between the
Imperial government and the dignitaries of
the Roman Church. The statement seems
to be that the young Catholics will come to
America.
	MINISTER Bancroft and the Greek church
patriarch at Constantinople wagged their
grey beards at each other in mutual compli-
mentary visits, in the city of the Sultan
the other day. The patriarch is ninety-two
years of age, and the minister is believed to
be not more than forty or fifty years older.
	THE World’s exhibition at Vienna will
open in May. The American Commission
is very active in securing space and provid-
ing accommodations for exhibitors from the
United States. A sharp competition Is
expected between British and American
manufacturers of mowers, reapers, and
other improved agricultural machinery.


THE	SEX.

	THE Vienna Exposition will have a special
department for “Woman’s Work.”
	ALICE Wellington, Boston’s coming poet-
ess, is a teacher in the Girl’s High School.
	MISS Sarah W. Barton, an American girl,
is to be the prima donna in Warsaw, next
season. 
	A WOMAN in Birmingham, England, was
lately fined $200 for giving a good character
to a bad servant.
	AND now, rumor says, it was lung fever
instead of small-pox, with which Miss
Dodge, (Gail Hamilton,) has been afflicted.
	THE dowager Empress, of Brazil, died in
Lisbon, a few days since, aged 61. She was
married to the Emperor Pedro I., in 1829.
	CARLOTTI Patti was on a train in Georgia
when a severe accident occurred, and was
very active in attending to the wants of the
sufferers.
	A FEW admirers of the brilliant talents pos-
sessed by Mme. Clara Schumann, have pur-
chased an annuity for that lady of a thousand
thalers.
	A SAN Francisco editor thinks Oregon and
Washington must be good places for women
to live in if they have time there to attend
to “Mass Conventions.”
	THE eldest of General Schenck's daughters,
who are so pretty, well-educated, and taste-
ful, is about to be married to the son of
a member of Parliament.
	MADAME de Schweinitz, wife of the Ger-
man Ambassador, and daughter of Minister
Jay, was lately received by the Emperor of
Austria, at Vienna. 
	MRS. Mayor of Jurupa, lately saved her
child from drowning by decending a well by 
bucket and rope; She sustained herself and
child until assistance arrived.
	A HUSBAND in Rome, N.Y., lately sued
his wife for $30 he entrusted to her before
marriage. Nothing like it was recorded in
the law books, and the jury, with chivalric
promptness, decided In favor of the wife.
	MISS Hosmer’s monument to Miss Fal- 
coner, a young English lady who died in 
Rome, has been placed in the Church of St.
Andrea delle Fratte, in that city, and is the
only sculpture by an American artist to be
found in any of the Italian churches.
	A YOUNG sharper says, that “a school-
ma’am who has never been in love hasn’t a
bit of mercy; but take one that’s got some-
body to look for, and she’s the best in the
world. She always keeps a smile and a
pleasant word on hand, for fear of a
surprise.”
	A WOMAN fell into a well in a Western
town the other day, and an editor, in com-
menting upon it, remarked that he never
heard of a commotion in his life that hadn’t
a woman at the bottom of it. It is supposed
that the poor fellow had been married once
or twice and spoke from the card.
	THE fashions of the Japanese women are
thus spoken of by Mr. Lanmann: “The
hair of the women is gathered in bunches,
and tied with beautifully dyed crapes,
and secured by a long four-cornered tortoise-
shell pin. The dresses are made very long.
The sleeves are flowing, and only sewed
about half way up, thus forming a pocket.
A species of sash, four inches wide and four
feet long, is worn around the waist. The
women always wear white socks, in which
the big toe is separated from the rest, to
admit of a thong by which the shoes are
tied to the feet. They have ‘rainy weather’
shoes and ‘fair weather' shoes, which are
made of wood and of straw.”


﻿				WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW

		ROME, ITALY, Jan. 24, 1873.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	From Genoa, where I wrote you last, we
went to Turin—from Turin to Venice. The
time has been when Venice exercised a
powerful influence at home and abroad, and
claimed to be “mistress of the seas.” That
day has gone by. The hotel at which we
put up appeared to be completely imbedded
in water; but we found on the opposite side,
from where we entered, stepping from our
gondolas on to stone steps it claimed a narrow
strip of "terra firma.” There is not a car-
riage in the place—in the public garden
three horses are kept on exhibition—all
travel and business, except that of pedes-
trian capacity, is done on the water by the
means of oars propelled by human muscles.
	The once boasted silk manufactures of
Venice have dwindled into a solitary one,
and that, I was informed, is worked by
hand. In the manufacture of glass, I think
they are nowhere excelled, especially in that
of the ornamental kind. We visited one
establishment. It is a curiosity to see into
how many forms and textures glass can be
worked. We saw women spinning and reel-
ing it into fine threads, while others wove
it into fancy plates, necklaces, etc., which
seemed elastic and strong.
	The “Grand Hotel Victoria,” our stop-
ping place, is a fine establishment, and
affords good accommodations for travelers.
	But I must hasten on, and leave Venice
with its palaces, palazzes, prisons, “Bridge
of Sighs,” gondolas and canals, for another
consideration; and from thence to Bologna—
thence to Florence, where for the first time
since leaving home, we are located on the
ground floor of the hotel.

			FLORENCE. 

	Beneath high, villa-dotted hills 
		That in succession rise 
	Like rich gemm’d parapets around; 
		The lovely Florence lies.

 	The Arno, broad and gentle stream, 
		That flows meand’ring through, 
	Divides, but in unequal parts, 
		The city platt in two. 

	I’ve seen its princely palaces  
		Where wealth and ease reside— 
	Where independence fills her sails 
		With luxury and pride. 

	I see you, Florence, all the while, 
		So beautiful and gay; 
	I ask, Is this your common dress, 
		Or, this your holiday? 

	Be wise; and while their golden show’rs 
		The bounteous heav’ns distil;
	Avoid debasing luxury, 
	Prolific source of ill.

	The crown of Peace is on your head— 
		Its wreath around your brow; 
	The royal carpet, newly spread, 
		Adorns your threshold now.

From Florence we went to Pisa—from thence
to Rome.
	Of the much I have seen here, I can say
but little in one letter. We are traveling
under the direction of Mr. Cook, the Lon-
don tourist. He furnished a guide to take
us out five days, and show us the most
interesting portions of the city. Our pro-
gramme concluded last evening; and feeling
that I have “done Rome,” I am doing up
matters to-day, preparatory to leaving for
Naples to-morrow—writing you is one of
the items.
	Among the many curiosities witnessed, I
will mention one remarkably singular, al-
though not the most pleasing. It is the
“Cemetery of the Capuchins,” in the Fran-
ciscan Monastery. Our guide took us to the
door, where we were met by a monk who
conducted us through four apartments in
which five thousand and four hundred
monks had been buried, and nearly all of
the bones of these persons were in plain
view. A narrow path on one side of the
room afforded a passage, parallel with which
was a railway over a very low wall to pre-
vent intrusion into the main portion of the
room which the bones occupied. It is
impossible to describe the sensation pro-
duced by the sight of millions of human
bones assorted and arranged—some on
arches from four to five feet high, under
which a body apparently in a similar
state to that of an Egyptian mummy, was
standing, dressed in a black gown, others
were symmetrically formed into niches where
other bodies were placed in a reclining
position; others were arranged in fanciful
forms and figures on the celings above.
The long bones were packed by themselves
—the arches being mostly formed by them,
and some of them crowned with several
rows of sculls—the small ones being used
in making ornaments. Every thing, the
chandeliers, candlesticks, etc., were made
of bones! The arrangement of them re-
quired much care and study, and no very
slight artistic skill.
	The manner of these monks is, when they
bring a body, to take up the bones of the
one that had been the longest buried, and
place the fresh one in the vacancy, and in
this way the bones are, accumulating from
time to time.
	Those bodies which do not decompose,
are placed in the arches and niches of these
bony structures, and preserved in this state.
We saw a number of them—one who died
as late as 1867, with whom our guide had
been well acquainted.
	With all the seemingly ludicrous arrange-
ments, these bones are sacredly prized by
the living monks. On being asked if they
would sell a skull, the answer was decidedly
“no." The strange curiosity of this exhibi-
tion interested me much, but I was glad to
turn my face in the direction of fresh air, as
soon as the novelty of the scene was ex-
plained.
	We visited the palace of Victor Emanuel
—passed through halls, reception rooms,
antechambers, state rooms, dining rooms,
etc., very beautiful—the furniture rich, and
altogether magnificent. We should have
been better satisfied had we interviewed
the occupant, but that was not included in
the programme.
						ELIZA R. SNOW.

				PROVO CITY, Feb. 22, 1873.
MY DEAR MISS GREENE:—
	I forward to you a letter which . I have
received from our beloved and highly
esteemed sister E. R. Snow, thinking it of
enough interset to grace the columns of
the EXPONENT. If you think proper, there-
fore, you are at liberty to publish all, or a
portion of it. as your judgement may direct.
I believe everything that appears in your
paper from that noble lady, gives satisfaction
to your patrons. With kind love to your-
self, and all the dear sisters in your city,
and best wishes for the EXPONENT, which
I sincerely hope may continue to increase in
worth and interest until it shall be second to
no publication in Woman’s Editorial depart-
ment—praying God to bless and endow you
with wisdom and light from on high, I am,
your sister in the bonds of truth and love,
					MARGARET T. SMOOT.
						ROME, ITALY,
						  January 18, 1872.
MY DEAR SISTER M. T. SMOOT:—
	You in Provo, and I in Rome! Who
would have anticipated this wide separa-
tion? Yesterday, Mr. Wood, Mr. Cook’s 
agent, with whom arrangements were pre-
viously made, to show us the most
important points here, conducted us to some
portions of the ancient ruins of this ancient
city. We were shown the remains of the
temple of Venus, Jupiter, etc., the ancient
Forum, the Rostrum so famous for speechi-
fying—portions of gigantic columns in a
reclining position, several standing in their
original places and in a good state of pre-
servation, considering their great age. We
were informed that the late Popes have
exercised their influence in preserving these
ruins which are now attracting the attention
of great numbers of people from other parts,
particularly from England and America.
	At the expense of the government, many
hands are now employed in excavating a
portion of the great Forum of the ancient
Emperors, the Caesars, etc., which by
gradual changes and usages, having been at
times occupied by shepherds, has been buried
to the depth of several feet by accumulations
of “debris.” There is a paling around the
ruins, and no one is allowed to enter with-
out permission. As we stood on a portion
that has been unburied, we saw the stalwart
guard-officer hurry a man off from the
premises, who, do doubt, had stealthily
intruded. We were all right, for our guide,
an Englishman, seems to be of considerable
consequence; he is agent and sub-Editor of
the “Swiss Times,” a lecturer, etc. When
he conducted us to the “Holy Stair Case,”
said to be the identical one that the Savior
ascended in the Court of Pilate; I asked him
if he would swear to it. He said emphatically,
“I will not swear to anything.” But directly
afterward, he said I will swear to the acque-
duct, and I will swear that the stairs
were brought from Jerusalem, and I will
swear to the “Arch of Titus,” which was
before us. We saw a man and woman
slowly ascending the stairs which no one is
allowed to ascend except on their knees;
our incredulity prompted us to accept the
suggestion of our guide and ascend by a side
flight which was considered less sacred; we
found a representation of Christ on the cross
in front of the “Sacred Stairs.” We visited
the celebrated Colliseum, which must have
been a most magnificent structure in earlier
days, being capable of seating eighty-seven
thousand, with standing room for twenty
thousand more.
	It was St. Anthony’s day, and we wit- 
nessed the ceremony of blessing animals,
which was the most amusing of all. On
that day the priest blesses horses, mules, 
donkeys and all kinds of animals. A fine
span of horses, richly caparisoned, were
driven in front of the church—the priest,
with several attendants, came out, dressed 
in black gowns with white tunics. Stand-
ing in front of the horses, with grave pom-
posity, he read a service in Latin, which,
probably the animals understood as well as
himself; after which he took a long handled 
swab from a kettle, in the hand of a boy
standing by his side, and flirted water
(probably “holy,”) In the direction of the
horses’ faces, but not far enough to reach
them; and then, after pocketing his fee, the
priest returned into the church. The coach-
man, a young man, could hardly hold his
countenance, looking as if he were witness-
ing a farce, and felt that the spectators all
sympathized with him.
						MONDAY, 20th.
	Yesterday afternoon Mr. Wood took us


through, around and under many of the
ruins of the palaces of the Emperors—
portions of the walls built by early Romans.
Many, of the specimens show vestiges of
beauty and magnificence. In several in-
stances, trees have grown in crevices ,of
ponderous edifices, which were constructed
of rock, brick and cement, their growth
having made large openings, forcing the
structures apart and thus producing dilapi-
dation. I will enclose you a leaf which I
plucked from a shrub growing on the remains
of the ruins of Caligula. In exhuming these
ruins, inscriptions are found which identify
many of them.	
	Last night brother Carrington joined us,
and brought what of our mail had arrived
in Liverpool. 	*	*	*	We are all
in good spirits; my health was never better,
although “sight-seeing” is not the easiest
work in the world. Clara and I get along
just as well as two persons could do, and I
feel no lack of companionship. *	*		
	I get but little time to write, have done
this by “piece-meal.” With much love, I
am as ever
						Eliza R. Snow.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿	[Written for the EXPONENT.
	LETTER FROM BEAVER.
			—
	On the afternoon of the 20th ult., Presi-
dent Young’s party arrived in Beaver, and
notice was circulated that a meeting
would be held, and although it was
then after four o'clock, and very cold, the
house was filled to overflowing.
	Bro. Staines first addressed the assembly,
comparing the ease and comfort of the
present day, with the privations of former
times; demonstrating to the Saints that
labor, and not money, was the essential of
success in building up Zion—that labor, and
not capital, redeemed this fair land from a
howling wilderness. He urged the Saints
to improve their own homes and build up
their own cities, instead of selling their
handicraft to others for money. He also
spoke about the ways and manners of the
young; urging them to cultivate sober and
steady habits; saying that mothers confessed
hat although poverty and hardship had
stung them, and death had torn their child-
ren from their arms in infancy, they never
knew what sorrow was until their sons
approached manhood and disregarded good
advice, plunging into dissipation, wasting
time, health and self-respect in a certain
kind of enjoyment, which leaves a sting
behind.
	After him, Bp. Lorenzo D. Young occupied
a few minutes, but excused himself from much
speaking on the ground that his brother
was going to speak, and did not want to
hold the meeting late.
	President Young said he did not rise to
preach, he had done preaching enough
thirty years ago, to convert the world, had
the world listened; but he wished now to
converse a little with his friends.
	He spoke about the wilful blindness of the
world, its readiness to believe a falsehood,
and its outcry without investigation, against
this people. “But” he said, “we have no
cause for uneasiness, so long as we live our
religion and are not carried away by the
things of the world.” He also said that the
hatred and scorn of the world should be
nothing to the Saints; their delight should
be in the consciousness that God approved
of them, and that when the brief span of life
was over their reward was sure. The blows
aimed at him all fall short of their mark;
they were powerless to cause him a moments
uneasiness; the source of his joy and comfort
was as high above their influence as the sun
[new column]
was above the earth. He had merited the
hatred of the world by being instrumental
in the hands of God in forwarding His great
work; that blessing His people spiritually
and temporally, was to him a joy, a comfort,
a consolation, which the world could neither
give nor takeaway.
	Speaking of the desire to obtain wealth,
he said every one had a perfect right to get
all the wealth he could, honestly; provided
he made proper uses of it afterward. He
acknowledged himself only a steward over
the wealth which God had placed in his
hands, and accountable to Him for the use
of the least portion of it. That no one on
this earth owned anything; but those who
proved faithful and profitable stewards over
what was intrusted to their care, should be
real owners hereafter. He wished all to be
able, as he was, to say that in getting wealth
they had never wronged the widow and
orphan, never defrauded the poor nor the
rich, never over-reached their neighbor in a
bargain, nor in any way stained their souls
to get it. 	
	Referring to his reputed power and in-
fluence over the people, said he was often
tempted to wish he really had it, that he
might cause them to cease their folly, their
envy, backslidings, running after the things
of the world; and to fix their hearts and
eyes on God and the great future which is
surely theirs if they live for it. But he
added that it would not be right for him to
have such power—God himself did not
possess it, having delegated it to His
children in  the form of free-agency, to choose
between good and evil and receive the
appropriate reward for the choice made.
“Brethren and Sisters,” remarked the
speaker, “I am for God and righteousness!
and I would gladly know the sentiments of
your hearts to-night. Let all who are will-
ing and determined to serve the Lord to the
best of their ability, even though His enemies
hate, persecute and even kill them, now do
as I do!” and his right hand pointed heaven-
ward. Instantly hundreds of hands were
uplifted, and breathing was almost sus-
pended in reverential awe. His voice had
not been raised above conversational pitch,
his manner was calm, mild and kindly, as
that of a father conversing with his chil-
dren; but his words were like pure gold, and
seemed to sway the hearts of his hearers as
the summer wind sways the meadow grass.
He broke the silence with “Are you all
for God? Then I am glad; all is well.”
	He then referred to some parts of Brother
Staines’ remarks, advising the young to write
a history in daily deeds of honor, that if so
be, in the future they are called to occupy
high places, they need not blush to have
their early history sought out. Advised
parents to pray and teach their children to
pray; saying that children begotten, nur-
tured and taught in the fear and admonition
of the Lord, would never spurn their early
teaching and love corruption.
	I have seldom listened to so simple, plain,
unassuming, yet impressive a discourse.
And the effect was deepened on my mind
by a remark I overheard from a a stranger
who passed me on my way home, and whom
I took to be an outsider. He was saying to
his companion, “Well, it cannot be denied
that Brigham Young speaks with power,
and has a great influence over his listeners.
Why I felt it myself while he was talking.”
	I longed to answer, “Yes, the power of
good authority for what he says; the in-
fluence of a strong, noble, philanthropic
spirit over all corresponding good in the
minds of his hearers."
	I feel to say, as did that congregation,
God bless our President and spare his life
[new column]
long to bless his people with his loving
care, and to enjoy the golden harvest of the
priceless grain and fruits which he has
labored so faithfully to plant.”
								L. L. D.


RELIGIOUS PERSECUTION. 

	Ladies have assisted materially in the 
election of President Grant, some of us, to 
be sure, considering it “a choice between
the two evils.” Then should we not protest
against any unwise, or cruel act proposed by
the Executive, lest we share in the oppro-
brium?
	Surely, no woman can believe, in a relig- 
ious persecution, in this day, or, indeed, in 
any day. The principle is manish. Yet 
we are informed that President Grant in- 
tends to resume his disastrous course toward 
the Mormons. It is hard enough not to be 
free ourselves. But to see those who have
earned a right to live according to the dic-
tates of conscience by such sufferings, labors
and successes as the Mormons have proved, 
is harder still.		
	Were their women forced to share the 
love of a husband with others, as many 
nearer home are, it might be chivalric in  
President Grant to coerce the men. But  
even then he might better attend to greater 
evils nearer home.	
	The Mormons found a religious belief in 
the Old Testement, men and women alike, 
and put it in practice. Otherwise their
morals are pure, their industry, enterprise
and loyalty are unquestioned; they have
“made the desert to rejoice and blossom as 
the rose.” They are courteous and tolerant 
toward those who differ with them. Until
Eastern States, cities and people are equally 
praiseworthy, let them attack the “beam in
their own eye.”		
	If the President is to give people their 
religious views, why not overhaul the 
Oneida community, or attend to the “Social
Evil?”	
	Even some of the President’s most influen- 
tial male supporters are opposed to his
narrow impolicy in this matter; certainly 
all women must prove their sense of justice,
and belief in equal rights, by protesting
against persecution. Argument and exam- 
ple would finally overthrow polygamy.
Persecution will rouse the martyr spirit, 
and the blood of martys will prove the seed 
of that Church also, as it has for those of
purer faith.
					SHAWANEBEKE.
				In “The Woman’s Journal.”


JAMES Havens of Lynne, Connecticut, has 
fasted for fifty-seven days, it is said.	
	ONE-half of the false hair worn by Ameri- 
can women comes from prisons and lunatic
asylums.
	VERDI brought out Don Carlos, lately, at
Naples, and the audience brought him before 
the curtain thirty times.		
	Jo. Jefferson’s four nights at Baltimore 
produced $6,500. He will play in all the
leading southern cities.
	A MAN named Jackson, who escaped from
Vermont penitentiary, returned and claimed
the fifty dollars reward, and it was given to
him.
	THE Prince and Princess of Wales recently 
lunched with the Duke of Rutland. The
central dish was a boar’s head, and the
second a peacock pie.	
	GEORGE Sand’s translation of the Psalms
is pronounced by the critics to whom she
has read specimens of it, the noblest work
she has ever written.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT


A CHAT CONCERNING UTAH,
				—
WITH AN EX-UNITED STATES ATTORNEY, A
	POLITICIAN OF FORTY YEARS STANDING.

	SAN BERNARDINO, CALA., Feb 26th, 1873.
DEAR EXPONENT:—-
	I have been reading the news concerning
the proposed course to be taken at Washing-
ton in relation to Utah, and also the reasons
given by the twenty-six attorneys of your
city. Not being well posted in politics I
concluded to ask a few questions of the
Colonel, “my better half;” and thinking
you might be amused as I was, I concluded
to give you the “chat” in full.
	Question.—What is the cause of the ex-
citement against Utah at Washington?
	Answer.—Oh! there’s Clagget, and Axtell,
and Washburne, and Merritt, and a host of
others that want offices, or a pull at govern-
ment pap, and they think that the preference
will be given to the one who gets off the
most gas. 
	Q.	Don’t you think they are honest in
the objections they make concerning Utah?
	A. Well, we politicians, about election
times, don’t care anything about a man’s
morals if we can only get his support.
	Q. Don't you think the twenty-six attor-
neys at Salt Lake City had good cause for
taking the course they did?
	A. I Don’t know any of them but Ap-
pleby, and I can’t think he had any just
cause, for signing such an instrument, The
most of the others, I suppose, are floating
adventurers, and you know how it is with
we attorneys. “If business doesn’t come to
us, we go to business.”
	Q. But don’t you think they had some
cause for objecting to woman suffrage? 
	A. I think I could find five women in
Utah that know more of the rights of
parties than the whole of them.
	Q. What is your opinion in regard to the
case of Judge McKean?
	A. I have examined his rulings, and
read them to some of the most able attor-
neys in California, and we were of the
opinion that he should resign or be im-
peached.		
	Q. What course would you have taken,
had you been defending in his court?
	A. It is hard to make points before a
Judge that is prejudiced, but I think I
should have plead in bar President Polks’s
contract, and President Buchanan’s pardon.
	Q. What bargain did President Polk
make?
	A. He contracted with the Mormon
agents that if they furnished a battalion and
assisted to take a portion of Callifornia they
should select a part of the country, and he
would protect them in their peculiar relig-
ion.
	Q. What did he mean by “peculiar?
	A. Polygamy, I suppose.
	Q. What was President Buchanan’s
pardon?	
	A. Forgiveness for all past offences
against the United States.
	Q. Did the Mormons accept the terms?
	A. They did, and the negotiation was be-
tween the Mormons and Ben. McCullough
and Governor Powell, United States Com-
missioners. 
	Q. What course do you think President.
Grant will take in regard to Utah?
	A. I think the President has too much
good common sense to be influenced by
tricksters, or religious fanatics.
	This last question put a stop to the chat,
for the Colonel was a strong supporter of
Grant in the last election.
	With many wishes for your success, I
sign myself your friend,		MINNIE.


CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for Woman’s Exponent.
SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.
	We would respectfully call your attention to the
fact, that we have one of the Largest and best Stocks
of Ladies’, Misses’ and Children’s FURS in Sets, as
also Capes and Collars (separate), that will be found
in this City. Also a large assortment of Fine Shoes
of Philadelphia and California make.
	The above goods we will sell at the lowest possible
price.
					DUNFORD & SONS,
						SALT LAKE CITY.
Z. C. M. I.
	Retail Dry Goods Department. 
To meet the demand of an increasing business we
have added an essential addition to our
			RETAIL ROOM,
wherein the most economical buyer can be suited.
It is our highest ambition to suit our various visitants
and purchasers, and to display our varied fabrics
regardless of purchase.
	This department aims to suit the demands of all 
whether in
	DOMESTIC OR FANCY DRESS GOODS,
either by the yard or piece.
				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup’t.
			NEW    CLUB    RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an 
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume, 
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do.

10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	   	up of the club	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	        up of the club	-	-	-	-         26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	        up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
		ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
		Young, selling price, $2 50 	-	- 	   34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
		up of the club, and a superior first proof, 
		steel engraving of President Brigham
		Young.    handsomely framed, selling
		price $4		-	-	-	-			    48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has 
been sent. 
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT. 
FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY, 
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street. 
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies 
to purchase. 
DR.  W. H. GROVES, 
								DENTIST,
	Office Second South Street.  Three doors west of 
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City. 
		    Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
		    WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		  A UTAH LADIES' JOURNAL. 
	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which 
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable 
sources the views honestly entertained by them on 
these questions. 
	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them : and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and 
countrywomen in reply. 
	Who are so well able to speak for the women of 
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented 
by others!"
	For these reasons, and that women may help each 
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by, 
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced. 
	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every 
subject of interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence, 
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading. 
	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge. 
	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best 
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but 
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department 
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other 
matters of interest connected with their workings, 
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the 
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive 
due attention. 
	Miss Eliza R. Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numorous duties.
	WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto. 
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in 
Utah.
	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
  1 Copy one year, 		$2.00		1 Copy six months, 	$1.00
10 Copies one year,		18.00	       10 Copies six months,    9.00
	No subscription received for less than six months. 
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a 
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine. 
	Address all communications and subscriptions, 
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City, 
Utah.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. I	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1873.	No. 21.﻿


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
	New York proposes to allow women own-
ing $250 in property to vote. Liberal New
York!
	Corrupt nations march to ruin with
more certain tread than they ever do to
victory or greatness.
	The Congressional whitewashing sea-
son is about over; but several darkened
reputations yet show discoloring stains.
	A very sensible lady, speaking of the
follies of fashion, remarks, concerning the
“Grecian Bend:” “Had the Creator desired
to see women with humps on their backs,
He would so have created them.”
	An eight year-old “country lassie” is re-
ported to have named one of her chickens
after a prominent Utah official, “’cause,”
she says, “that old hen is always cackling
when there’s nothing to cackle about.”
	Utah has received two new Associate
justices. If they are an improvement upon
their predecessors, the Territorial Supreme
Court quorum of three would not be injured
by another similar change.
	The friends of Woman Suffrage in
Massachussetts, are grieved at the action of
the Legislature of that State, in which, not-
withstanding the Republican platform, the
prohibition of equal political rights for
women was voted down by a large majority.
They declare themselves “defeated but not
conquered;” and they will eventually gain
the victory.
	“Strikes,” on a large scale, are threat-
ened again, in the East. Those of last
spring cost the employers and workmen of
New York over thirty-three millions.
That is the way capital and labor cut each
others’ throats. Both desire to make money,
and yet by these “strikes” prevent the
accomplishment of the object. Were there
less pride and stubborness among them,
arbitration might be successfully resorted to
for the settlement of their difficulties.
	The hunt for offices has been, so great
that President Grant has lamented the pres-
sure upon his time and patience from this
cause. It seems that the glory of the aver-
age masculine American, throughout the
States, is to become a politician, and the
aim of the politician is to secure office. The
country is viewed as a fat oyster which it is
the precious privilege of every member of
the winning party to open and enjoy.
	George Francis Train is confined in
the Tombs, the principal prison in New
York, for publishing the “Train Ligue,” on
the charge that it contained obscene litera-
ture; and a physical who has examined
him says he is insane. We have not seen
the “Train Ligue," and consequently cannot
speak as to its contents; but it is possible
Train’s peculiar style of telling the truth
has considerable to do with this medical
opinion as to his insanity.
	Six out of ten vacancies in the Internal
Revenue Department, at Washington, to be
filled by competition, were gained by
women, who doing the same work as men
receive the same pay. This is gratifying,
yet the right thus conceded should have
been recognized long ago. It was in Utah
that the right of women to support them-
selves as clerks, telegraph operators, and so
on, was first publicly and practically
acknowledged, and now it is being admitted
all over the country.
	The Editor of the San Francisco “Pio-
neer”does “not believe that Celestial mar-
riage; or polygamy, is an agreeable, natural
condition for men and women.” Let her
honestly and intelligently contrast polygamy,
as found in Utah, with that condition of
society impotently fought against, which
exists so largely and but semi-covertly in
San Francisco and elsewhere; and say which
social system she considers the more agree-
able and honorable.
	Foster, the “car-hook murderer,” was
hanged on Friday, March 21st, in New
York. His crime was the killing of one
Avery D. Putnam some two years ago, in a
street car, because Mr. Putnam endeavored
to protect two ladies from insult. On the
same day McElhaney, the Massachussets’
wife murderer, was also hanged; he had
brutally killed his wife. Charles Mortimer
has been found guilty of murder in the first
degree, in Sacramento, California, for the
killing of Sarah Gibson. These three cases
are enough for one issue of the Exponent,
to convince its readers how fast the world
that berates the Mormons for their “peculiar
views”’ on the woman question, is traveling
toawrds woman being protected and treated
as she should be.
	The special session of the United States
Senate closed on the 26th ult., not one of the
resolutions for expulsion of corrupt members
of Congress having passed either branch of
the national Legislature. Senator Patter-
son, of New Hampshire, accused of corrup-
tion and perjury, escaped because his term
of office had expired; Senator Pomeroy, of
Kansas, was declared innocent in the face of
very positive evidence of his guilt; Senator
Caldwell, from the same State, resigned,
although it was believed, that a vote to
expel him would have failed; Senator Clay-
ton, of Arkansas, was declared innocent;
while in the House, Ames and Brooks were
censured for admitted corruption, but not
expelled.
	If every, man in the country could be
paid as well for his services as the Rev. Dr.
Newman, palatial residences and comfortable
carriages should be more plentiful than they
are. Dr. Newman receives his salary as
pastor of the Methodist Episcopal Metropo-
litan Church, in Washington; he also re-
ceives $7,500 for being chapalin of the Senate
of the United States; and he has lately
received the appointment, from President
Grant, of Inspector of Consulates, as he pro-
posed a pleasure trip around the world, by
which he has the expenses of the trip paid,
and receives besides, $6,000, in coin. Un-
doubtedly he is a fortunate man, and his
good fortune is multiplied upon him because
he was defeated in discussion by Elder
Orson Pratt, in the New Tabernacle of this
city, when he came to overthrow Mormon-
ism, but was himself overthrown,
	The house of Representatives of the
New York Legislature, in session at Albany,
on Monday, March 24th, instructed the
Judiciary Committee to bring in an amend-
ment to the State Constitution, providing
that tax paying women citizens shall have
the right to vote. There are two anomalies
in this country that would bear explanation,
considering that “taxation without repre-
sentation” is held to be a grievous and
radical wrong. One is, why the people of
the Territories should be taxed by Congress
without a vote, by representative or dele-
gate, in imposing the tax, or disposing
of the money thus raised after it has been
collected. And the other is, why women
who own property and are taxed, all over
the United States, are refused representation
of any kind, except in two of the Territories
thus unjustly dealt with. The women and
the Territories only ask their just rights
from government and from the States.
	The question “are women citizens of
the United States within the meaning of
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Consti-
tution?” is expected to be shortly decided
by the Supreme Court of the United States,
in a suit brought by Mrs. Myra Bradwell
of Chicago, against the State of Illinois, for
refusing her permission to practice law.
Should the decision be in her favor, it will
make woman suffrage a fixed fact in every
part of the Republic, and will not then be
in the power of any demagogues to take the
right of suffrage from the women of Wyo-
ming and Utah, the only portions of the
United States where the elective franchise
is enjoyed by the sex. With this principle
sustained by the judicial branch of the
government, it might be said that the
builders budded more firmly than they
knew when framing that amendment, which
was intended to confer certain rights upon
the colored population but would be found
unwittingly to extend to women as well.
That this would work a greater revolution
in politics than the emancipation and enfran-
chisement of the blacks no one can doubt;
and some of the best jurists in the country
contend that the decision of the supreme
tribunal is certain to confirm it.
	“Was it a Ghost?” is the question agi-
tating a portion of Minnesota at present,
over the following rather curious item
which we clip from an Eastern paper: “In
the great storm which proved fatal to so
many people in Minnesota, one John
Weston, of Worthington, was overtaken on
his way home through the woods. Three
days after, his wife, who was anxiously
awaiting his coming, heard as she
thought at the door the voice of a neighbor
saying, ‘Mrs. Weston, John is frozen to
death.’ She went at once to the door, but
nobody was there. So, six days after, an-
other neighbor saw the missing man stand-
ing about fifteen feet from, the stable door.
He addressed him with, 'why are you
here, we thought you were frozen?’
When the ghost answered, ‘So I am, and
my body lies a mile and a half northwest of
Hersey.’ With this the ghost vanished.
The depth of the snow prevents searching
for the body at present.” Should the body
be found, at the place thus indicated, the
question now agitating that community will
be as far as ever from settlement; for the
world is unwilling to believe the truth in
regard to such phenomena, and prefers to
ascribe them to hallucination of the mind, or
accept the first theory that meets approval.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[For	the	Exponent.
		THE WORLD IS PROGRESSING.

The world is progressing! the sunlight of science.
	With new luster sparkles to-day,
And keen, searching intellect wins an alliance
	With secrets long hidden away;
Bright genius unfolds new and great combinations
	Of power to bless and serve man;
While muses and graces forsake not their stations
	Adorning the structure so grand.

The world is progressing! O womanhood arouse
		thee. 
  Nor in the swift race be outrun;
The great wheels of progress will never turn
		backward,	
  So roll them right bravely, each one—
In the proud halls of state, at the hearthstone so
		 lowly,
	Let your voice for improvement be heard,
Strengthen virtue and honor, disdain things un-
		holy
And bid thought soar as free as a bird. 

The world is progressing! O manhood, waken
	And join in the jubilant strain!
The fetters which bound thee now surely are
		breaking
	And never shall gall thee again.
No more in the dust shall thy meek head be
		trodden;
	No more shall injustice o’erwhelm;
Thou shall rise above ignorance, fashion and folly.
	And reign as a queen in thy realm.

The world is progressing! old fabrics of error
	Fall, moldered and crumbling to earth:
While structures, far statelier, nobler and fairer,
	Rise pillared  with power and worth.
Old Prejudice withers 'neath the blows that are
		dealt her.
	And for power, wild struggling she keeps;
But her terrible sway shall forever be broken—
	Humanity no longer sleeps.

The world is progressing! yet all is not stainless
	Grim evils yet flourish abroad—
False teaching false swearing and falsehearted
		statesmen,
	Black intrigue, and blackest of fraud.
But the world is progressing! thank God we’re
		progressing!
	The day of dull torpor is past;
Brave hearts and strong hands are their ardor
		expressing;
The millions are waking at last!
							Lu Dalton.
Beaver.


F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS!

			Pleasant Grove,
				February 26th, 1873.
Dear Exponent:—
	We have been silent so far to the public;
yet we have been busy at home, trying to
promote the interests of our Relief Society,
which has, in the proper way, discarded a
portion of its former appellation—the word
"Female." We have plenty of faithful
sisters who evince a spirit characteristic of
our noble callings. Our Society is in a 
healthy state financially. By our generosity,
coupled with economy, we have succeeded
in gathering and saving quite a handsome 
amount of means which we have invested
in Co-operative institutions where we have
a perpetual benefit in dividensd.
	There is a unanimity of feeling among
our members to assist in building up the
Kingdom of God upon the earth. Our
monthly meetings are well attended. We
have rendered assistance to many public
improvements, as well as giving temporal
relief to those in our midst who are needy.
	We are of the opinion that it is very
opportune that we have such an organ as
the Exponent, for while Congress and 
President Grant are devising some means,
no matter how unconstitutional, against us
as a people we, the "weaker" portion of the
community, can speak boldly for the noble
institution with which we are so closely
interwoven that it will take more wisdom
than men can conceive of to cause us to re
linquish one iota of our holy religion.
"Fear not little flock, it is my good will to
give you the kingdom."
	God bless the right.
					Rosalie E. Driggs.

				Salt Lake City,
					March 13th, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	The Relief Society of the 17th Ward is
doing well, has a sufficiency for its poor,
and some to spare. The annual report,
which was read on the 6th of February,
showed the Society to be in a flourishing
condition financially.
	On the suggestion of our President, Mrs.
O. Hyde, the Society donated $80 to
the Emigration Fund last year. At a meet-
ing held in December, Secretary Mrs. Alder
moved that the word “Female” be dropped
from the Society, in accordance with the
views of Sister E. R. Snow, which was
passed by a unanimous vote. At the same
meeting President Mrs. Hyde requested the
visiting Committees to visit their blocks
and solicit for a Christmas dinner, for the
poor, which resulted in the donation of $30
in cash, chickens, pies, cakes, groceries, etc.
being collected, and our needy had a sub-
stantial reason to be glad that it was Christ-
mas.
	There are less needy in the ward at
present than at any time since its organiza-
tion, and a feeling of perfect unity exists in
our Society. We also feel that President
Mrs. Hyde and her Counsel have blessed the
Society, wisely guiding it, and the good
feeling we have always enjoyed is the
natural result.
	Our Bishop and the brethren have decided
to build a new meeting house this Spring,
and have taken active measures towards it,
for which we are thankful; and at a recent
meeting voted to help them all that lay in
our power; for we have sadly felt the need
of a comfortable meeting house in the Ward; 
and with it, we feel we will increase in
wealth, both as a Ward and as a Society.
					Mrs. O. Hyde, President,
	Mrs. G. A.  Alder, Secretary.

		19th Ward, Salt Lake City,
				March 20th, 1873.
Editor Woman's Exponent:—
	Having been rather remiss in forwarding
you a report of this branch of the Relief
Society, we will endeavor to offer one as
concise as possible now. During the five 
years the Society has been organized, the 
donations in cash and merchandise have 
amounted to $1,400. Our disbursements 
are $900, having donated $100 to the Emi-
gration Fund, $75 to missionaries, made
various other donations of small amounts
and used means for the benefit of the poor
of the Ward; which leaves a balance on
hand of $500 designed to be devoted to
building a hall for the benefit of the Society.
We hold our sewing meetings semi-monthly,
and our meetings for receiving donations
and making disbursements, monthly. Al-
though but few, comparatively, of our
members meet together, yet the people of
the Ward donate liberally to sustain the
Society. When we realize the blessings of
this great institution, organized in our
midst, we are led to exclaim Surely our
Father in Heaven careth for his children!
We have declined the use of the word
"Female," as being superfluous in connection
with the name of the Society. We think
very highly of the EXPONENT and wish it 
much prosperity.
		Respectfully yours,
				A. A. Pratt, President;
	Maria W. Wilcox, Secretary.

	A meeting of the Relief Society of the
10th Ward in this city, held March 6th, was
attended by Sisters Mary L. Horne, Zina D.
Young, Elizabeth Howard and Louise L.
Greene. That branch of the Society appears
to be active and wide-awake in relation to
the many responsibilities which the sisters
are learning to take upon themselves as
legitimately belonging to them. The re-
ports given in concerning those who are
needing assistance, and the general interest
exhibited in their behalf, showed the sisters
of the 10th Ward to be in possession of the
true spirit of their calling, and united in
their desires and efforts to do good.

	The tenor of spirit manifested at the
general meetings of the Co-operative Re-
trenchment Associations, held on the 15th
and 29th of March, in the 14th Ward As-
sembly Rooms, showed that retrenchment
in cooking and in dress, as first introduced
in the associations, had not been lost sight
of by a portion of the members. The im-
portance of self-culture was also warmly and
intelligently vindicated.

	The sisters in Heber City send us cheerful
reports of the Relief Society in that settle-
ment.


﻿THE JOYS OF THE POOR.
			  ——
	A woman was washing outside the door.
Her arm was slender, her eye dark and
quick, her forehead high and white, not-
withstanding exposure to the sun and wind.
There are some brows that never will
darken, no matter what the chances.
	The room was the last and least in the
row, at the further end of the alley. Seeing
the approach of a stranger, flashes of feeling
ran over the washerwoman's face, showing
she would have liked a moment to adjust
her toilet.
	Listen! There is music within! An in-
strument in the hands of a boy, apparently
about ten years of age, is leading the
infant voices in melting strains of simple
song.
		"Let me kiss you father, kiss you,
			I am very tired of play;” 

	There sat little Susie on the wood, the
baby on a rude stool near by, while Willie,
the eldest of the three, stood as if leading the
singing, and on the other side, the boy
playing the instrument with very superior
skill. I moved not another step, spoke not
a word, scarcely breathed, so exquisite
was the thrill that ran through my whole
being! Listen, angels! Harken children
of earth! This is heaven, though it be in a
hovel! All in unison; not the slightest
discord from beginning to end; not one in-
distinct syllable or misplaced accent! Now
they have ceased;	
	“Why madam, are these all your child-
ren?” I asked; and received the following
reply:
	"Yes, ma’am; they are all mine! and
don’t they sing prettily? Don’t you think
the poor have their joys as well as the rich?
I go out daily to wash that they may have
bread to eat; and when I return and hear
their sweet voices I forget that l am weary
or poor.”
	“But where is their father?” I queried:
“Ah! ma’am, he has wasted his life in the
drinking saloon, and we have left him in our
native country. He comes no more to
abuse the dear children, nor to humble me 
with threats and blows; and now we are
happy, though we are poor."
							BETTY PINE.
Salt Lake City, March 16,1873.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
				—
	WOMAN'S WORK IN THE GARDEN. —Don't
say you have no time.  Leave off a ruffle on
Susie's apron, or the rows of braid on Tom-
my's jacket.  If the kitchen floor be not
daily polished to whiteness, your husband
and his troop of hungry men will not mind
it; so, just ge tthings in trim for dinner, and 
steal the time for some pleasant work in the
garden every day.  Pay no regard to John's
sly  hint that a lively race with him down
through the potato patch, hoe in hand,
would do just as well; but coax or hire some-
body to spade a little plot of ground, and 
the work of planting and weeding will be a
penance for numerous physical ills.  A sun-
bath in your own dooryard might be just as
potent, and certainly less costly,  than if
prescribed by a physician to be taken on the
hillside,  at some fashionable water cure.
Try it, ye worn and exhausted toilers, who,
in the never-ending round of houshold 
labor, are fast losing that buoyancy which is
such a powerful lever in lifting heavy bur-
dens.
							RUTH DANA.
	A USE FOR RUSHES.— When I was quite
a little girl, I remember paying homage to
an egg shell which hung in the cottage
window of an old lady whom I visited.  It
was ornamented with a particular design at
nothing, I think, only the blending of
bright colors.  This was effected by dyeing
the pith of common rushes in various bright
colors and glueing them on in rings.  Since 
then, I have discovered that very beautiful
imitations of flowers like the camelia, 
tuberose, etc., may be made by their skillful
use.  Make each petal separately and fasten
the center with wax.  Once commenced,
you can scarcely fail to make pretty flowers
—if you are patient.
						ROSE GERANIUM.
	IF YOU wish to have your pictures show
to greatest possible advantage, avoid all
figured wall paper, or have the figures
as small and  quiet as your taste will allow.
—"The Beautiful Home."
	GINGER SNAPS.—One pint of molasses;
two thirds of a cup of butter; one teaspoon-
ful of ginger; a small half-cup of sweet milk;
one measure each of Horsford's preparation.
Mix well in flour enough to roll out
	SOFT GINGERBREAD.—One and a half cup
of molasses; two thirds of a cup of sour milk;
half a cup of butter; one teaspoonful of
soda; one teaspoonful of ginger.
	SWEET SAUCE (for all kinds of pud-
dings).—Half a cup of butter; one cup of
sugar; one cup of milk.  Stir the butter and
sugar to a cream; boil the milk, and while 
boiling stir in one teaspoonful of corn-starch
previously mixed in a little cold milk; pour
the milk while boiling, over the butter and
sugar.
	STEAM PUDDING.—Two cups of sour
milk; two cups of flour; two cups of corn-
meal; half a cup of molasses; two small
teaspoonfuls of soda; a little salt.  Steam
one hour and a quarter.
	DELICATE CAKE.—The whites of five
eggs beaten to a froth; two cups of white
sugar; half a cup of butter; one cup of milk;
three cups of flour, and one measure each of
Horsford's preparation mixed well in the 
flour.
	MOUNTAIN CAKE.—Two eggs; one cup of
sugar; half a cup of butter; half a cup of 
sweet milk; two cups of flour; one teaspoon-
ful of cream of tartar; half a teaspoonful of
soda.  A little nutmeg and fruit impoves it.
	APPLE JAM.—Weigh equal quantities of
sugar and good sour apple; pare, core and
[new column]
chop the apples fine; make a good clear
syrup of the sugar; add the apples, juice and
grated rind of three lemons, and a few
pieces of white ginger. Boil it until the
apples looks clear and yellow. On no
account omit the ginger.
	WHILE SMOKING meat with chips or saw-
dust, put on the fire a few red peppers;
the fumes will prevent all insects from at-
tacking your meat.
	WINDOW-BOXES—Plants may be success-
fully raised in these, where only a few are
required for early crops, and are often more
convenient than a hot-bed.


[For the EXPONENT.
			THE EVIL OF SLANDER.
					 ——
	There is probably no one thing in which
the Saints sin so much as in speaking evil
of their brethren and sisters, and attending
to other people's affairs.  The poet says:
"We've faults enough at home to mend,"
and we all know this is true.  Yet how 
prone we are to meddle with our neighbors'
failings, to desire to pull the motes out of
their eyes when probably, at the same time,
there is a beam in our own.  There is one
things we should all bear in mind: if our
brother or sister does wrong we are not the 
ones to put him or her right; that belongs
only to those who are placed over them.
And another thing, their faults have noth-
ing to do with us, unless they sin against
us individually.  When they do so, it is our
duty to go to them privately and tell them
of their error, instead of going to those who
have no right to know anything about it.
If we will do this with the right spirit we 
will be tolerably sure of receiving satisfac-
tion.  In all we undertake we should have
the Spirit of God to dictate us; then we are
certain of doing right; for that Spirit never
leads anyone into difficulty.  The Lord
never forsakes us, it is always we that for-
sake Him when we are unhappy.  He is
always ready and willing to pour out
blessings upon us when we are willing to 
receive them.  We should not watch for 
iniquity, for if we look for evil we will
certainly find it; if in no other way, by mis-
construing something that was meant for 
good.  You know there is a woe pronounced
upon those that make a man an offender for 
a word.  Let us remember what the Savior
said.  "Whatsoever ye would that men
should do to you, do ye even so to them."
I don't think many of us carry this out in
the true sense of the word; for we would
not like to think that our friends were
criticising our talk and actions in our
absence.  We would think they were both
unjust and unkind, when at the same time
we have scarcely a friend in the world but
we can find some fault with, and are very
apt to do it.  It is a good rule never to say
a thing in persons' absence that we would
not be perfectly willing for them to hear.
If we adhered strictly to this rule, it would
be very little evil we would ever speak of
anyone; if we told them of a fault we would 
be as lenient as possible.  Girls, let us strive
to do right, and be forbearing with each
others' weaknesses, and the Lord will bless
us, for He is desirous to bless and comfort
those who seek Him with full purpose of
heart.
								M.F.


IT IS astonishing to see how readily bad 
habits may be overcome and good ones
grown into by a person whose mind is fully
made up to be wise. That attempts at re-
form so often prove futile, is simply because
of a lack of resolution and determined
courage.


[For the Exponent.
		"DOES HER OWN WORK."
				    ——
	"Does her own work! Does she!" I
heard this uttered in a sneering con-
temptuous tone, as if it was a disgrace to
the girl in question; as if she was less a
true lady, less worthy of respect than those
who sit with their hands in their laps and
never know or realize aught so blissful or
satisfactory as the sense of real dignity
which is the happy attendant of honest,
healthful labor. And I could not help
thinking the expression of such feelings
evinced a selfish, narrow mind, better fitted
for almost any other community than ours,
whose institutions are based upon honorble
labor as one of the most essential corner
stones.
	Such utterances show the detestable spirit
of caste, which should be foreign to any but
the vain and ignorant, but which is estab-
lishing itself too forcibly among certain
classes in our midst. They should reflect
that manners and morals, as well as dress
and occupation, enter into the grand mak-
ing up of a character. If a woman is able to
live without actual labor, let her do so if
she so desires. But to be ashamed of work,
or of a knowledge of how to manage the
shop, or the kitchen, or to sneer at those
who do work, betrays the presence of a
"false pride." Were ouw mothers ashamed
to work, or are we ashamed of them because
they did work? It is an honor to any woman,
any society, to be able and willing, when
necessity requires it, to do her own work.
							M.   R.   W.
		EDUCATION OF WOMEN.
				  ——
	George W. Curtis thus closed his lecture
on the education of women: Now, as to
the question of a collegiate education for
women, it is not proposed that women shall
be compelled to go to college but only that
they shall have precisely the same opportu-
nity that men have, if they wish to improve
it. There is in England at this very day
a lady lecturing at the Young Women's 
Institute upon domestic questions, such as
"Would you prefer to use an earthen or an
iron pot upon your kitchen stove?" or "How
would you lay out ten shillings if you had a 
sick husband and six children too young to
work?" and "How would you make bread?"
This is precisely the kind of education; the
sooner it becomes universal, the sooner we 
shall have better food and better health. We
have our agricultural fairs and colleges, and
certainly if it is worth while to teach us how
to raise wheat it is as wise to teach us
how to convert it into bread. If there are
branches of knowledge improper for wo-
men to learn or duties unfit to perform, they
will know it a thousand times better than
men, so give them their choice. If there
be some women in whom the love of learn-
ing extinguishes all other love, then the
heaven-appointed sphere of that woman is
not the nursery. It may be the library, the
laboratory, the observatory. Not the happi-
ness of Romeo and Juliet. but star-eyed
science is her place.  Does such a woman
prove that perfect liberty of education un-
spheres woman?  On the contrary it has
enabled that woman to percieve exactly
what God meant her to do. We have left
the petted slave in the Greek-household, to
go onward and forward.  We have left
the idle toy and the painted doll with
Chesterfield and the clubs, and we still go
forward.  God lead us to find the true
woman in the free American home.


﻿THERE are 50,000 gold-hunters now in
Africa.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT:
			LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy; six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine.  Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonparell space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers Woman’s Exponent,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.
			SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 1, 1873.


SPLINTERS.
			      —
	Dr. Feard joins his opinion with the senti-
ment which is becoming popular, that
modern brain-workers sleep too little..........
The Iowa legislature gives too much credit to
its lady clerks and commends women for
such employment to future General Assem-
blies......Mrs. Woodhull's lecture on "Naked
Truth" is said to contain very indecent and
blasphemous language......Maria A. Elmore
is writing a series of articles on "Woman's
Dress," a subject which demands more
serious and sensible attention than it re-
ceives......Six lady physicians graduated in
one day lately at the "Woman's Hospital
Medical College."......A woman admirably
oversees the binding in one of the largest
printing-houses of St. Louis......George W.
Curtis has been dangerously ill with typhoid
fever, at his home on Staten Island, occa-
sioned by overtaxation in his civil service
and other duties......Mrs. S. B. Chandler
has lately concluded a series of lectures in
Washington on "Education and the duty of
parents."......The Queen of Belgium is said
to own the finest horses in the world......A
German housekeeper in New York, Mrs.
Lawrence, about six feet high and weighing
250 pounds, captured a house-breaker the
other night, without any assistance, taking
from him an offensive looking knife and a
chisel of considerable magnitude......Ten-
nessee employs its female prisoners in
breaking rock for street pavement......Pro-
fessor Fowler is reported to have said, "If
you would marry a good wife, get a romp."
It is reasonable to presume he meant a care-
ful, studious, virtuous "romp," who can
enjoy work as well as play......Again report
says, that the winsome little actress, Lotta,
has departed the stage—of life; this time it 
is in France; but may possibly be another
mistake of the telegraph......A man in Illi-
nois has lately found out, to his great
astonishment, that there is a newspaper
published "away out in that wild country,
Oregon.”.....Vienna has a type-setting
school for girls. Other schools should intro-
duce this art, for girls and boys too......
California gives equal pay to male and female
teachers, according to the abilities mani-
fested; that is fair play......Since the death
of her father, Miss Ella Chapin fills the
position he formerly held as Register of
Deeds for Gratiot County, Michigan......Two
practical artizans, two scientific men and a 
large number of honorary commissioners have
been appointed by President Grant, to  attend
the  Vienna Exposition......Printers in Swit-
zerland think they have a "fat" situation
when it affords them $3:60 per week......
Mrs. Snyder, a Syracuse shop-lifter, stole
$1,500 worth of dry goods in an hour. The
Leavenworth "Commercial" thinks she
should go to Congress......Paris has a band
of robber composed partly of females......
Brooklyn gives a detective, convicted of
perjury in a divorce suit, six years and 
three months in the State's prison......San
Ignacia, Mexico, has witnessed a remarkable
phenomenon in a shower of quicksilver......
The German Geographical Societies are going
to send explorers to supplement the discov-
eries of Dr. Livingstone......A man in Ohio
was lately literally ground up by being
caught in the cogwheel of a flour mill......
The past winter, particularly the latter
portion of it, is very generally admitted to
have been an old fashioned one......Brick
Pomeroy's divorced wife is married again....
The President's salary having been doubled,
it is intimated that he will now be able to
pay off the national debt with greater ease
and rapidity than at any former period......
[new column]
The prince of Lichtenstein has placed his 
castle at Vaduz at the service of the nuns
expelled from Germany......An English
Chief Justice decides that the writer of a
novel has no more right to dramatize it
after publication than any other person has.
......Pike County, Indiana, has a famous
medical spring......The grounds and sewer-
ages are being prepared in Philadelphia, on
the site of the proposed buildings for the
Centennial celebration......In Taylorville,
Polk County, Iowa, poor men recently be-
came rich in one day; oil was discovered
and the price of property instantly trebled.
......Somebody stole a Maltese cat from the
Superintendent of the New York Police
Department, lately; he offered a reward of
fifty dollars for its recovery, and the place
is lively  with cats since that time, though
he has not discovered any trace of the real
stolen one......A couple were married on the
cars in Missouri, a few days since, thus
entering into marriage at railroad speed......
Mr. Beecher's salary is $20,000....A daughter
of George Sands is going to marry an ex-
Catholic priest whose home is in Tours,
France......Seven thousand women belong
to the Belgian Internationals...Mrs. Knowles,
widow of the heroic captain of the North-
fleet, is to receive, by order of Queen
Victoria, a pension from the civil list of £50
a year........A woman 74 years old, in Mary's-
ville, California, pursued and shot a thirty
pound wild cat, recently, for having de-
stroyed her pet lamb.


ONE PROMINENT REASON. 
					—
   Said a person a few days ago, who has made
himself somewhat conspicuious in pressing a
crusade against the Mormons, when closely 
questioned on the subject: “The fact is, I care
nothing about how many wives a man has;
I make no pretentions to being a moral man
myself, and I care very little whether other
men are moral or immoral; but I’m bound
to break up th the ocracy and religion that’s in
this thing.” This was not his exact language,
although we have placed it in quotation
marks for we would not transfer to these
columns any of the vile and blasphemous in-
vectives with which his speech was interlarded;
nor would our informant, a gentleman whose
honor and veracity are unquestioned, repeat
them in our hearing; but the ideas expressed
are here produced. The person is thus, himself,
confessedly an immoral man, yet he declaims
against the Latter-day Saints and their faith,
not because he cares whether their practices
are moral or otherwise, but because he aims at
overthrowing their religion and breaking up
their Church; and he finds “polygamy” a word
that can be used to rouse the prejudices of the
bigoted and the ignorant. There is nothing
new in this. It is the old story—as old as the
contest between truth and error; as old as
the revelation of gospel principles to man.
Those who hold to the truth dare not resort to
falsehood to defend themselves, for if they did 
the Spirit of truth would not abide with them;


but those who oppose right, employ every
means, no matter how false, dishonorable or
vile to secure a triumph. This man had some
honesty left. He was fighting to accomplish
an object, Though licentious himself, he
assumed an air of virtue and endeavored to
affix the stigma of licentiousness where it did
not belong, to arouse a public feeling against
the Latter-day Saints; and had honesty enough
to admit as much. The subject needs no
elaboration; it is very plain; and contains a
truth and a moral that should be self-evident
to all.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN UTAH.
				—
	Under this heading the Woman's Journal
congratulates the friends of Woman's Suffrage
that the "Utah Bill," better known as the 
"Frelinghuysen Bill" did not pass the House,
and that through the efforts of the friends of
Woman's Suffrage, it failed to become law.
The Journal's article says: “This abominable
bill, framed by Senator Frelinghuysen, of New
Jersey, and approved by the Senate Judiciary
Committee, was entitled 'A bill in aid of the
execution of the laws in the Territory of Utah, 
and for other purposes.' But it was especially
designed to remand the women of Utah into
political slavery, and even went so far as to
guard against their future emancipation by
Constitutional prohibitions."
	In support of this the Journal quotes the act
of the Territorial Legislature, conferring the
elective franchise; and the part of the "Frel-
inghuysen Bill" which repeals that act." It 
further shows, after referring to the fact that
20,000 women  were thus to be disfranchised,
that the men of Utah were to be prevented from
again conferring the right of suffrage upon
women; and in this connection the provision
of the bill might have been cited which re-
quired all future laws made by the Territorial
Legislature to be enacted in conformity with
the spirit and letter of this bill, thus attempt-
ing to prohibit the leading Territory of the 
United States from exercising the legitimate
powers which the very fundemental principles
of our government vest in every legislature in
the United States—State, Territorial or muni-
cipal—by which laws shall be made as liberal
as the public good demands; and in conformity
with the Federal Constitution. The concluding
portion of the article we give in full:	
	No content with thus crushing the political
rights of the women of Utah, with the strong 
arm of the Federal Government, Senator Fre-
linghuysen actually proposes to rob every 
married woman in the Territories of her person,
property and earnings.
	"Sec. 23. That the common law of England,
in force in the colonies of America, at the date
of the Declaration of Independence, is hereby
extended over and declared to be in force in
the Territories of the United States, so far as
the same is applicable: 'Provided, that nothing
herein shall be construed to prevent the Terri-
torial Legislatures of the respective Territories
from modifying the same."
	Remeber, ladies, that "The common law of
England,” thus extended over your sisters in
Utah, expressly gave "The custody of the wife's 
person absolutely to her husband," gave the
husband a right to use "gentle restraint" to
keep her, and to administer "moderate cor-
rection," to punish her; deprived her of the
power to sue or be sued, or to make a will.
Made her the "servant" of her husband; gave
him all her personal property and all her earn-
ings, and the life-use of all her real estate, if
they had ever had a living child, and subjected 
her to despotic control.
	To this infernal law, almost as bad as chattel
slavery itself, Senator Frelinghuysen has
actually induced a Republican Senate to suject
the women of Utah. Thus has the Republi-
can Senate shown itself mindful of its obliga-
tions to the loyal women of America! This is


its “respectful consideration," for the rights of
the women of the Territories.
	Thank God the bill has failed. But this
failure may prove only a respite. The snake
is scotched not killed. Let the women of New
Jersey call a public meeting and denounce tlie
action of their Senator, who has thus insulted
Womanhood. Let them see to it that Mr.
Frelinghuysen is never re-elected to the
Senate of the United States.,
	This question, as the EXPONENT has before
contended, is one not confined to the women of
Utah, for had the “Frelinghuysen Bill” become
law it would have acted adversely to the Wo-
man’s Suffrage agitation throughout the United
States; and it is gratifying to note that this
fact is being recognized throughout the
country.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TERRITORIAL FAIR.
				    ——
	The Board of-Directors of the Deseret Agri-
cultural and Manufacturing Society are already
arranging premiums for the forth-coming
Territorial Fair. As it will not be held until
October, this may seem early to direct atten-
tion to it; but there was complaint made—and
we think reasonably so—by the ladies of the
Relief Societies last year, that they had not
sufficient notice to prepare for the Territorial
exhibition so as to make such a showing as
they desired to do, and hence we refer to the
next Fair ,thus soon. One of the most interest-
ing features of the last one was the department
devoted to ladies’ work, in which several
of the Relief Societies made very liandsome ex-
hibitions. When it is understood a few months
in advance that a Territorial exhibition will be
held, the ladies and Societies that design partic-
ipating in it will commence in time and exert
themselves to have such a representation as
they will be satisfied with.
	Since the above was written the following
address was placed in our hands for publication
in the Exponent, which we take much plea-
sure in laying before the ladies of the Relief
Societies throughout the Territory:
		Salt	Lake City, March 25th,	1873.
To the Relief Societies of Utah:
	Ladies:—The Board of Directors of the
Deseret Agricultural and Manufacturing
Society propose holding another Exhibition,
or Fair, in October 1873. 
	In order that ample time may be given to all
who contemplate taking an active part in the
Exhibition, the Directors have already pre-
pared a premium list offering to all competitors
a fine opportunity of displaying their skill,
tact and genius in producing from the mater-
ials at their command, beautiful specimens of
the workmanship of their own hands.
	We cheerfully accord to the Ladies an ac-
knowledgement of the fact that in their
Department the Fairs have invariably been a
success, and when time has been given them
the number of the specimens have never been
meagre, and have generally exceeded that of
any other department.
	The dignity of labor is conceded by all
intelligent beings, and the adage that there Is
no excellence without labor has passed into an
axiom, or proposition to which assent is con-
ceded without proof.   We feel therefore to ask
your honorable associations to unite with us,
from Rich County in the north to Washington
County in the south, in an endeavor to make
the exhibition of 1873 a truthful exposition of
our progress in material developments.
				Wilford Woodruff, President,
	Robert. L, Campbell, Secretary.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.
				    —
	Two exceedingly interesting letters from
Miss Eliza R. Snow, will be found in the pre-
sent number of the Exponent.
	We shall be pleased to see our friends, who
may come in to Conference, at the office of the
Exponent, west of the city market.
	The Annual Conference convenes on Sun-
[new column]
day next, April 6th, when a large attendance
is expected. Presidents Young and Wells are
at home and most of the Twelve Apostles will
be present. The First Presidency have deemed,
it expedient to telegraph throughout the Terri-
tory,. to the various Bishops, enjoining the
necessity of strict quarentine in regard to small-
pox, and the importance of persons, who have
been exposed to the contagion not coming to
Conference.
	PREPARATIONS are being made at the
theatre in this city to provide attractive enter-
tainments during. Conference times, including
the spectacular play of “Cherry and Fair
Star,” and the drama of “Stage and Steam,”
written by Mr. E. L. Sloan, of this city, which
when first produced a few weeks ago was so
well received.
	Small-pox has continued to spread in this
city, and the City Council has deemed it neces-
sary to order the quarantine regulations to be
rigidly enforced. Much danger would be
avoided if people, who are exposed to the con-
tagion, would take proper precautions not to
carry it to others; and were all those who need
not be exposed to carefully keep away from
places where, while doing no good they would
be liable to catch the infection.
	Hons. W. H. Hooper and George Q. Can-
non arrived home from Washington, D. C. on
the 15th ult., just too late for their arrival to be
noticed in our last issue. They had passed
through a winter of much excitement in Wash-
ington over Utah affairs, and had been able to
prevent the passage of the special legislation
directed against this Territory. They were
received at Ogden by a large number of their
constituents, with a special train and music
from this city; and welcomed home in the
warmest manner.
	A morning newspaper published in this
city, which gives its attention to abusing
“Mormonism” and “woman's rights,” cham-
pions. some of the worst places in town, and
advocates anything and everything that would
increase here the evils so long fought against
by this community, devoted a little editorial
space lately to the “Woman's Journal” pub-
lished in Boston, confounding it with the
Exponent, and atiempting to berate both.
We merely allude to the fact, as an evidence
of how poorly informed some of these editorial
persons are, relative to matters of which they
treat so flippantly.
	The subject of home manufactures, of
various kinds is again receiving considerable
attention.  This is a matter which the ladies
of the Relief and Retrenchment Societies can
materially aid by precept and example, by
encouraging the wearing of home manufactured
fabrics instead of those imported, by throwing
an influence in the way of wool being woven
up in the Territory instead ef being exported,
and many other ways. And so far as the
fabrics woven in the factories in this Territory
have been exhibited at the last two Territorial
Fairs, they have compared favorably with any-
thing imported. We can all encourage home
manufactures, for all have influence, in a greater
or less degree; and in so doing we promote
prosperity, an increase of wealth to the com-
munity at large, and independence, which is
only truly enjoyed by a people when they are
self-sustaining.


﻿President Grant has subscribed $100
and Vice-President Wilson $50, to the
Greeley monument fund. How much will
be subscribed by the proprietors of Harper’s
Weekly, which helped to kill the over-
worked old man, is not yet announced.


“MANLY" OCCUPATIONS.
				  —
	Some individual has kindly prepared the
following, and  offers it as advice to young
men:
	The young man who has an ambition to
make a great noise in the world should learn
boiler-making.  He can make more noise
in that trade than anything else he can
engage in. 
	If he believes a man should “strike for
wages” he should learn blacksmithing—
especially if he is good at “blowing.”
	If he would embrace a profession in which
he can rise rapidly he should become an
aeronaut. He couldn’t find anything better
“for high.”	
	He certainly could do a staving (and per-
haps a starving) business at the cooper trade.
	If he believes in “measures, not men,” he
will embark in the tailoring business. 
	If the one great object of his life is to
make money, he should get a position in
the United States Mint.
	If he is a punctual sort of a chap, and
anxious to be “on time,” he should put his
hands to watchmaking.
	If he believes in the chief end of man to
have his business largely “felt,” why of
course he will become a hatter.
	If he wants to “get at the root of a thing”
he will become a dentist—although if he
does he will be often found “looking down
in the mouth.”
	If a man is a bungler, at his best, he
should become a physician—and then he
will have none of his bad work thrown upon
his hands. It is generally buried out of
sight, you know.
	Should he incline to high living, but pre-
fer a plain board, then the carpenter trade
will suit him. He can plane board enough
at that.
	If he is kneady and well-bred, he will be
right at home as a baker.
	He shouldn’t become a cigar-maker. If
he does, all his work will end in smoke.
	The young man who enjoys plenty of
company and is ever ready to scrape ac-
quaintance, will find the barber business a
congenial pursuit.
	The quickest way for him to ascend to the
top round of his calling is to become a hod-
carrier.		
	A very “grave” young man might flour-
ish as an undertaker.
	Don’t learn chair-making, for no matter
how well you please your customers, they
will sooner or later, get down on your work.
	And don’t become an umbrell-maker, for
their business is “used up." 
	If he would have his work touch the
heads of the nation, we know of no way he
could sooner accomplish such an object than
by making combs.
	The young man who would have the
fruits of his labor brought before the eyes of
the people will become an optician. The
work being easily seen through, cannot be
difficult to learn.
	Cannot some one prescribe as many good
pursuits suitable to the different tastes and
abilities of young women?


﻿Parsnip Wine.—Cut twelve pounds of
parsnips in slices and boil them in four gal-
lons of water till they become soft, then
press the liquor well out of them, run it
through a sieve and add to each gallon three
pounds of loaf sugar. Boil the whole three
quarters of an hour, and when, it is nearly
cold add a little yeast, let it stand ten days
in a tub stirring it every day from the bot-
tom, then put it into a cask for twelve
months. As it works over fill it up every
day.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.
				—
			Alexandria, Egypt, 	
				   February 9th, 1873. 
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	My Dear Lula :—I wrote you last in
Rome. We found very much in that
ancient capital of the world strikingly
interesting. The unremitting work of time
is nowhere more apparent than in the ruins
of that once magnificent city. The excava-
tions commenced at the expense of Napoleon
Third, and which are continued by the,
present government of Italy, have brought
to light, most astonishing specimens of
former grandeur and architectural skill.
Although much has been unburied, much
more remains, not only many feet beneath
the surface of the earth, but also below
spacious palaces and temples of compara-
tively modern structure, which have been
erected upon the ground formed by accumu-
lations through the lapse of ages, that
constituted a sepulchral arch over Rome of
the Caesars. While there, we were informed
of a design to remove those modern build-
ings in favor of perfecting the work of
excavation, and since leaving, have read a
published article announcing that the work
of demolishing had commenced.
But I must leave Rome for the present
and hasten on to Naples, where we arrived
in the evening of the 25th of January.
That is a city of pomp and beggary; in
fact, there, begging appeared to be more a
necessity than in Rome, where children
well clad, fat and apparently well fed,
seemed to beg for mere amusement, no
doubt being trained to the business. But
in Naples we saw poverty strikingly ap-
parent, and beggars clustered in droves.
Thousands of men, women and children
were on the side walks and in the streets,
lounging about as though they had no
abiding place; most of the men smoking
pipes and cigars—some of the women knit-
ting, others spinning flax in the most simple
manner, with a distaff from which they
drew the thread, and a bobbin or spool
which they twirled to give a twist to the
thread and then wound upon it.
	Many of these people have no resort for
the night only as they huddle into the
porches of the churches, on the steps, or
in niches in the corner of the street. Re-
turning rather late from Pompei one even-
ing, we saw groups of these houseless people
on steps leading into churches. They are
accustomed to this manner of existence, it
can hardly be called living. .Warm climates,
in which people easily exist, foster indo-
lence; and it is doubtful, whether any
inducements could prompt these people to
industry.
	President Smith and most of his party
ascended to the crater of Vesuvius, my ambi-
tion was satisfied with excellent views of
this natural wonder, at a lower point. Con-
tinually throwing out volumes of smoke,
and frequently ashes and stones, it is a
marvel that people residing near and at the
base of this fiery mountain can feel the
serenity they manifest.
	From Naples wo went by rail to Brindisi,
from there by steamer to Corfu, one of the
Grecian Isles thirty miles in length and
from one to fifteen in breadth. It seems
like a cluster of high hills and low dells,
mostly covered with olives and grape-vines,
with here and there a cypress. Varieties
of vegetables are growing in some parts,
also flax, which we saw nearly in bloom.
The Grecian women, living in the country,
are, many of them, at least, “beasts of bur-
den.” I never saw such gigantic bundles
[new column]
carried by human beings as these poor
women carry on their heads. In the city of
Corfu, as in most of the cities we have
visited, America and England are repre-
sented in the circles of fashion. The grand
promenade and public gardens were very
gay, especially in the afternoon of the Sun-
day we spent there.
	At 12 (midnight) of the 2nd of February
we embarked on the “Saturno,” an Austrian
steamer, and arrived in Alexandria the
morning of the 6th. We had a delightful
voyage, no one of our party was sea-sick;
the sea was calm, although the day before
and the day after our voyage were very
boisterous.
		SUNRISE ON THE MEDITERRANEAN.
		We mounted "Saturno's" deck to see
			A grand, magnificent scene,
		The rising sun in its majesty,
			Diffusing its golden sheen.

		A charming precursor first appear’d 
			In volumes of golden rays, 
		Increasing their splendor till all around
			The horizon seemed to blaze.

		Anon, the disk of the "king of day,”
			O’er the wat’ry main arose;
		Now upward and onward he makes his way,
			Till the canopy gaily glows.

		The morning is fine the air serene,
			And the sky above is clear, 
		Except where a tiny cloud
			Like a floating nymph appears.

		The sparkling waves of the sea below,
			The blazonry over head,
		The horizon wrap’d in a burning glow,
			A thrilling enchantment spread.
	No place that we have visited makes one
feel so thoroughly from home as Alexandria;
and in no place have we had more comfortable
quarters and better fare than here. Yet
the medley of nations, religious costumes,
colors, dialects, etc., etc., and the dilapi-
dated appearance of the city, constitute a
scenery at once interesting, ludicrous and
extremely amusing. But my sheet is full,
and I will leave Alexandria, with this intro-
duction, for a future opportunity. We go
to Cairo to-morrow
							E. R. Snow.
			Cairo, Egypt, Feb. 14, 1873.
Editor Exponent:—
	Dear Lula:—We are now in the
flourishing city of Cairo, but I will take
you back to Alexandria, to which I intro-
duced you in my last.
	Although the buildings generally, in that
once celebrated, antiquated city, are speci-
mens of age and decay, it contains some
respectable appearing ones, recently built
and owned by foreigners. Most of the
streets are unpaved, narrow and filthy.
Our hotel in Alexandria occupied a pleasant
position ; our rooms, on the third floor, front-
ing a public square eight or ten rods in width,
affording us full views of two streets and
four sidewalks, which were most of the
time thronged with people and animals.
From our balcony and windows, which
opend at full length, we had an excellent
opportunity for studying national peculi-
arities. The sight was at once intensely
amusing and interesting. It would be im-
possible to give more than a faint idea of
the strange varieties to be seen at a glance;
men, women and children of every shade of
complexion from the fairest blond to the
most glossy jet, with every variety of
feature, and in every imaginable costume.
In five minutes I counted twenty different
styles of covering on the heads of that
number of male bipeds, saying nothing of
those of the feminines. Mixed up with
pedestrians may be seen men, women and
children on donkeys, men on horses and
[new column]
mules, camels laden with enormous masses
of straw, grass, lumber, rock, and frequently
with a man on the top of the load; people pf
all classes in carriages and buggies,rudelycon-,
structed vehicles containing twenty persons
—men, women, and children; and to com-
plete the medley, dogs and monkeys.
	The most comically amusing practice, and
one of constant exhibition, is a person,
either Turk or Christian, on a donkey, with
a man or boy in gown or turban, running
in the rear, and with a stick punching or
striking the animal to quicken its speed.
Our highly respected cashier and inter-
preter, Brother P. A. Schettler, adopted this
fashionable style, but much to the regret of
Miss Little and myself, he disappointed us
of the gratification we anticipated in wit-
nessing the interesting and undignified
exhibition, by performing it clandestinely.
These Arab runners outstrip donkeys, and
equal horses at pretty good speed. It is
quite customary for people of consequence to
have one of these runners in front of their
carriage-horses, clearing the street before
them. President Smith and party rode out
this forenoon in two carriages, with a runner
in white gown and turban, in advance of
each. They felt themselves to be men of
authority—stick in hand, ordering people,
donkeys, etc., aside to clear a passage.
	On the streets, Americans, English,
French, Germans. Italians, Greeks, Turks,
Abyssinians, Jews, etc., etc., mix, and it is
impossible to discover from appearance
who feel most at home. Several of an
English party who crossed the Mediterra-
nian with us, have already adopted the
neat, little, Turkish cap, which, with
turban and gown, is the predominant style
in Egypt. In Alexandria, most of the hotel
servants appeared in no other. I had tried
to persuade some of the gentlemen of our
party that this costume might become them,
but, up to date, they have only donned the
cap—the gown is only yet in prospect.
	The custom of veiling the face, which is
much practised here by Egyptian women,
appears to be very inconvenient. I have
already seen thousands with only the eyes,
and sometimes the forehead exposed; some
with white veils and dressed in white;
others with black, and dressed in black, and
also in various colors; some very richly dad.
Most of the veils are short, made of thick
lace, and fastened across the face just below
the eyes. The outside garb, or covering,
nearly half-square in form, is laid over the
head, fastened under the chin, falling loosely
over the shoulders and reaches to the instep;
and frequently parting in front, exposes to
advantage a beautiful, rich underdress.
Walking in the public garden, seatedi n an
arbor, on the sidewalk, riding on a donkey
or in a carriage, every Turkish or Egyptian
woman you see, looks as though she had a
large shawl over her head. Considering
the outside appearance of the den-like
houses of the Arab Mahometans, it is very
surprising to see how neat they look. Many,
both men and women, dress in white—and
really white; their religion enjoins cleanli-
ness. They have fountains in front of their
Mosques, where the people wash before
prayer. We frequently see them washing
themselves beside the street, probably pre-
paratory to praying, for wherever a true
Mahometan is when the hour of prayer
arrives, he bows to service. We have seen
several where we were passing, bowing
their heads to the ground while their lips
moved as in silent devotion.
	But to Alexandria. The first morning after
our arrival, the early and frequent discharge
of cannon, reminded us of our “Fourth” and
“Twenty-Fourth.” On inquiring the cause,


we were informed the pilgrims were then
ascending the mountain in commemoration of
the Hegira, or flight of Mahomet, to Mecca.
It was also the time for the“Wailing for the
dead” in the Mahometan cemetery. Our cur-
iosity prompted us to walk a tiresome distance
through dust, filth, crowded streets, to the
place designated, where we found thousands
of people of all ages, and, with very few
exceptions, all in Mahometan costumes.
	The graves are covered with clay moulded
into a compact oval form, raised from one
to two feet above the surface, and many of
them surrounded with one, two and three
steps. Beside many of the graves were
those, apparently, who were relatives of
those interred, weeping, mourning or pray-
ing, while another class, with no mourning
sympathies whatever, was exhibiting the
greatest mirth; playing on rude instruments,
dancing-monkeys, buying, selling, eating,
drinking, smoking and having a gala time.
Not comprehending their words and doings,
the entire scene seemed to us a master-piece
of confusion. The throng was so dense it
was difficult to wend our way into the
midst sufficiently to gratify our curiosity,
which we did as soon as possible lest we
might be thought intrusive; and in coming
out, we were beset with importunities to
purchase all kinds of trinkets, bread, cakes,
figs, oranges, dates and many other things
altogether anonymus to us,; but it being
Sunday we were out without any “back-
sheesh” in our pockets—of course were not
prepared to trade.
	In Cairo we have visited a Turkish
Mosque, a Jewish Synagogue, a Greek
Church in which we were shown “where
Joseph, Mary and the Savior resided when
they fled from the wrath of Herod;” a Church
of the Copts, “Joseph’s Well,” which is two
hundred and fifty feet deep,the Pyramids and
“Sphynx,” the Museum of Antiquities, the
Gardens and Palace of Gizeh, which belong
of the Khedive, of whom we had a good view
as he passed us in his carriage while prom-
enading on his premies. He has four wives
and quite a number of children, four of
whom were married during the past month,
which has been a continued holiday festival!
Many thousands of lamps have gorgeously
illuminated, it is judged more than fifty
acres in extent, hung in arches, over gate-
ways, in arbors, most tastefully arranged in
every direction. Yesterday the festival
closed and many were engaged in remov-
ing the lamps and other costly ornaments.
During the festivities firing of cannon was
frequent, and the exhibitions of fireworks
in the centre of the illuminations wore ex-
ceedingly grand. Three of the recently
wedded, are sons; the daughter’s nuptials
were since our arrival. It is said that her
intended had seen her photograph previous
to marriage, but not her face. If that is so,
it is to be hoped he has met with no un-
favorable disappointment.  She has the
reputation of being very pretty and amiable.
On the 17th we leave Cairo for Suez.
					Eliza R. Snow.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


﻿LIBERTY is self government—not govern-
ment “by” ourselves merely, but govern-
ment “of” ourselves—strict and unrelent-
ing, healthful and cheerful.
	SCATTER flowers on the young maiden's
coffin, ye blooming friends!  Ye used to
bring flowers on her birthday feasts; she is
now celebrating the greatest of them, for
the bier is the cradle of heaven.
	LOCKMAN, the philosopher was once
asked, who had given him his first lesson
in wisdom.  “The blind,” he replied, who
do not move a step in advance until sure of
the ground with a stick.


WOMAN'S VOICE.
					—
Dear EXPONENT:—
	I wish to say a few words about the
women of Utah and others. It is an old and
threadbare story, I know, but I still wish to
have my “say.” I believe it is a fact, well
demonstrated, that women were created for
wives and mothers; and I believe, too, that
most women prefer filling the measure of
their creation. I do not believe that women
naturally desire to become the creatures
that some men would make of them; yet,
man made in the image of his Creator,
wearing the form of Godliness though sadly
devoid of its attributes, will deceive, humil-
iate and degrade woman; and her sister
woman will pass her by with contempt,
stinging her with scorn, and sinking her
still deeper in dagredation and misery.
And such persons will raise their hands in
pious horror at the thought of the man who
dares to take two or more at a time, as law-
ful wives, and raises them to a station of
respect and honor. God ordained that
woman should marry; why should she be
restricted in the choice of a husband, or get
none at all? If bachelors will not marry,
women must needs choose from the married
men, or remain single. We are told again
and again that women are slaves; perhaps
they are, but how is it, where is it, and
why is it? Surely the statement cannot be
considered true of us, since we chose to
follow our husbands to a new country, a
thousand miles from “civilization,” to brave
the hardships and perils of a journey across
the great American desert, where the roads
were new, and ox teams instead of palace
cars were our means of conveyance!
	True, for years, and while the hardy
pioneer was tilling the soil or working in
the canyon, what kind of a wife must it
have been who would not have done her
best to help provide for the comfort of home?
Was this slavery? Perhaps it was; but the
master was stern necessity.   Spinning,
weaving, and toiling in every possible way
for herself and loved ones, were the labors
of the day; but when they were over, she
could commend her soul to God, and sleep
peacefully, to awaken refreshed for the bur-
den and toils of another day.   All this was
done cheerfully and happily; and I say, God
bless the wives and mothers who have
striven thus nobly for their husbands and
little ones, and for the Kingdom of God!
Their names will be handed down to future
generations and their children will rise up
and call them blessed.
	Sensation writers have tried to represent
them as degraded and oppressed. If so,
who were their oppressors? Not the hus-
bands and fathers, whose portion was
poverty, in which the wives and daughters
shared alike its toil and inconveniences.
Often the cry has been raised that the
women of Utah could not escape from these 
valleys. Had our “sympathizers!” come
here as we did they would not have been
anxious to have tried to leave in like man-
ner. The prospect was not tempting. But
now that their way is open, the opportunity
does not seem to be improved by many.
	The women of Utah, “fallen and de-
graded!” They have been cherished and
respected, and woe to the villains who would
seek to degrade them! In Church affairs
they have walked side by side with their
husbands, and their votes have often been
called for in matters of importance. They
have held the same power as their husbands,
to sustain the authorities. 
Bloated demagogues, standing in high
places, have often called a blush to the cheeks
of modesty; but thank God, they were a min-
[new column]
ority, and their influence  appears as if
becoming “beautifully less.” Their cow-
ardly insults and blatant demonstrations of
power have carried a weight among
strangers and caused the men of Utah to be
misjudged; but civilization is opening its
way through our country and that matter
with many others will have a fair chance
for investigation.	
	The women of Utah have never clam-
ored for rights. They have always found
as many rights as they have been capable
of attending to, and as great tasks in their
own sphere as they have had strength to
accomplish. Unasked for, but not unwel-
come, came to them the elective franchise,
by which they were called upon to aid
in choosing their rulers, which though a
matter of importance, they had been well
contented to leave in other hands. But
since this privilege has been lawfully
granted them, they seek to manifest their
appreciation in modesty and union, and
to perform the duties that are placed before
them with care and forethought, and again I
say, God bless the noble women of Utah!
								M. J. T
Provo. 
			  —
			Provo, March 3rd, 1873.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	As so much is being said at this time
concerning the marriage relations of the
Saints, I feel desirous of taking part in the
grand controversy,
	I am not a theorist, but one who has had
quite an experience during a period of
fifteen years, and feel pleasure in testifying
that when people will be guided by the
Spirit of Truth and the word of the Lord,
that no state or condition of society is so
well calculated to foster purity and social
advancement, as the doctrine and practice
of plurality of wives; and I am certain, that
if I am always privileged to continue in the
faithful discharge of the duties and obliga-
tions connected therewith, that I shall be
numbered among the redeemed of all
nations. As one of our poets has lately
sung:
	“Hearts and homes in union dwelling
		All the wives of one good man; 
	Peace and love our bosoms swelling
		Guided by the Gospel plan;
	In one home we raise our offspring
		In the nurture of the Lord; 
	Of the Spirit’s power partaking
		And the Gospel’s power restored.,
	Praying the Lord to bless you in your
truly womanly efforts to overcome evil and
establish righteousness I remain yours truly,
							A. M. Jones.


THE ladies of Boston propose to give Rev.
George MacDonald a testimonial.
	THE King of Holland has disinherited
his eldest son.
	THE French Assembly has made intoxi-
cation a penal offense. 
	THE Queen of England has subscribed
$800 to the fund in aid of the survivors of
the North-fleet disaster.


﻿MANY flowers open to the sun, but only
one follows him in his course.  Heart, be
thou the Sun-flower; be not only open to
thy God, but obey Him too. 	
	IF love’s sunshine fall upon the bare, cold
rocks, in the restless sea of desolate human
life, flowers will spring up even there, and
fill the place with gladness.
	Make up your mind what you intend to
do.  Sit down and count the cost.  Do not
undertake more than you can perform. It is
unwise to commence work that you are not
able to finish in due season.


﻿WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


A WARNING TO YOUNG LADIES.
					 —
	A  lesson and a warning to the young
ladies of Utah contained in the scandalous
conduct of the man Anderson, who was
arrested here a few days ago, and the folly
of the girl Mitchel, who fell into his snares.
Flattered by his notice, and deceived by his
plausible tongue and “gentlemanly” man-
ners, the girl left her home in Salt Lake
City and came to Ogden, where her sorrow-
ing mother discovered her with her seducer,
after a long search, aided by the police.
Anderson promised to marry the girl, but
subsequently tried to decamp without ful-
filling his contract.   He was arrested and
taken back to Salt Lake, where, to avoid
the punishment of the law he married the
victim of his wiles.
	How many times have our young ladies
been cautioned about associating with
strangers, and warned against the arts of
polite but designing scoundrels? What
respectable girl would think it any consola-
tion to be wedded to a man who only con-
sented to marriage through the force of law
and the fear of punishment? And when
will the odium of the disgrace attending
such a scandal be chased away from the
guilty parties? 
	Our girls are brought up in innocence of
the vices and corruptions of the great world,
and enjoy great freedom in companionship
with their juvenile friends, male and female.
They think no evil of those in whose com-
pany they may be cast, and unless willing to
heed the advice of their friends, are apt to
be led astray. The only path of safety for
them is to avoid the intimate society of all
persons about whom they know little or
nothing, and associate only with those in
whom their parents, guardians, or trusted
friends, have confidence. By taking this
course many will save themlselves from
shame, and, perhaps, from present and
everlasting ruin,—“Ogden Junction.”


﻿The Law of True Marriage.—“Wher-
ever,” says Gail Hamilton, “man pays
reverence to woman—wherever any man
feels the influence of woman, purifying,
chastening, abashing, strengthening him
against temptation, shielding him from evil,
ministering to his self respect, medicining
his weariness, peopling his solitude, winning
him from sordid prizes, enlivening his
monotonous days with mirth, or fancy, or
wit, flashing Heaven upon his earth, and
mellowing it all for spiritual—there is the
element for marriage. Wherever woman
pays reverence to man—wherever any
woman rejoices in the strength of any man,
feels him to be God’s agent upholding her
weakness, confirming her purpose and
crowning her power wherever he reveals
himself to her, just, upright, inflexible, yet
tolerant, merciful, benignant, not unruffled
perhaps, but not overcome by the turbulence
and responding to all her gentleness, help-
ing her to hold her soul steadfast in right;
to stand firm against the encroachment of
frivolity, vanity, impatience, fatigue and
discouragement; helping to preserve her
good nature, to develop her energy, to con
solidate her thoughts, to utilize her benevo-
lence, to exalt and illuminate her life—
there is the essence of marriage. Its love
is founded on respect, and increases self-
respect at the very moment of merging self
in another. Its love is mutual, equally giv-
ing and receiving at every instance of action.
There is neither dependence, but inter-
dependence. You cannot, weaken its bond;
distance cannot sunder them; it is a love
which vanquishes the grave and transfigures
death itself into life.
-


CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for Woman's Exponent.
SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.
	We would respectfully call your attention to the
fact, that we have one of the Largest and best Stocks
of Ladies', Misses' and Children's FURS in Sets, as
also Capes and Collars (separate), that will be found
in this City. Also a large assortment of Fine Shoes
of Philadelphia and California make.
 The above goods we will sell at the lowest possible
price.
					DUNFORD & SONS,
						SALT LAKE CITY.
Z.C.M.I.
	RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.
To meet the demand of an increasing business we
have added an essential addition to our
		RETAIL ROOM,
wherein the most economical buyer can be suited.
It is our highest ambition to suit our various visitants
and purchasers, and to display our varied fabrics
regardless of purchase.
	This department aims to suit the demands of all
whether in
		DOMESTIC OR FANCY DRESS GOODS,
either by the yard or piece.
			NEW CLUB RATES.
				     —
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the Exponent and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-	$26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	$34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4	-	-	-	-			  48 00	Clubs can be commenced at any time;  and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Mondy can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the Exponent.
[new column]
TAYLOR & CUTLER, EAST TEMPLE
Street, have a Splendid Line of LADIES DRESS
GOODS, which will arrive about the First of April,
selected by Mr. Cutler in New York, expressly for
this trade.
FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			A UTAH LADIES' JOURNAL.	
	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.
	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.
	Who are so well able to speak for the women of 
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!"
	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of Woman's Exponent, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.
	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.
	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.
	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In Woman's Exponent a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R. Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.
	Woman's Exponent will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.
	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1 Copy one year, 		$2.00	1 Copy six months, 	$1.00
10 Copies one year,     18.00	10 Copies six months,   9.00
	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a 
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.
	Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers Woman's Exponent, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. I. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,  APRIL 15, 1873.		No. 22﻿


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	POPE PIUS Nono has been very ill the
past week. He is old, and his death may
occur at any time.
	THE LATEST agony in New York journal-
ism is a daily illustrated newspaper; and the
wood cuts show all the evidences of being
hurriedly got up.
	THE SECOND Adventists of Groton, Ver-
mout, fixed upon April 12, of this year, as
“the last great day;” but as it wasn’t, they
will have to refix the date.
	INDIANA proposes another “new de-
parture,” by allowing women the suffrage.
Should the proposition succeed where will
Massachusetts progress be?
	A DAUGHTER of President Thiers of the
French Republic, died at San Francisco
during the last week of March, and the
remains were taken to France for inter-
ment.
	AN INDIANA parson determined that his
discourses shall not be wanting in both
rhyme and reason, delivers them in rhyme.
His congregation should escape future pun-
ishment after having to endure such present
torture.
	MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY has graduated
twelve lady physicians and two lady law-
yers this year; and yet some of the New
England States querulously question wo-
man’s ability to practice either medicine or
law. The West keeps in the front!
	WILL ANYTHING frighten fashionable
ladies out of purchasing and wearing false
hair? Here is another “ghost” from Cali-
fornia:	“Somebody sold a dealer in human
hair some hair that had been cut from the
head of a small-pox patient, and the dealer
took the disesse and died.”	
	KENTUCKY HAS a town named Elizabeth,
with a population of 2,500, which spends
$200 a day in whisky; $73,000 a year for
that twenty-five hundred souls, male and
female, infant, youth, adult and aged, to
swallow some ninety thousand gallons of
liquid poison! Very probably they think
themselves temperate people, too! 
	AND NOW word comes from Minnesota
that the “foreman” of one of the leading
newspaper offices in that State is a woman.
There are people still who say women are
not competent to become printers; but the
world has never been rid of that kind of
people from whom even practical elucida-
tion will not remove such unbelief.
	NEW JERSEY legislative corruption bids
fair to outrank oven Congressional Credit
Mobilierism and New York legislative
venality. The question is not, did the leg-
islators sell out to railway magnates; but
how much was paid for them. As the
people elect their representatives they may
thank themselves if they are twice so
afflicted with the same men.
	THERE HAS been a very general outcry
through the press against the action of the
late Congress in passing the increased salary
bill, and making it retroactive so that each
member could draw the advance for the two
back years; and in some instances members
of Congress that voted for it have been
asked to resign. The feeling appears to be,
not that the country should pay more for its
legislation, but that it could do with a great
deal less of the kind of legislation it has
been favored with for some time. It is held,
too, that no act of the last Congress became
it half so well as that of dying.
	THE WOMAN Suffragists of California
were in convention in San Francisco last
week, but the brief telegraphic news re-
ceived concerning it by the daily papers,
contained so little information on the subject
that we must wait for due course of mail to
bring a fuller report.
	IT MAY be considered sad to record that
a number of women assisted, lately, at a
case of “lynching” at Fort Erie, Canada;
yet the foremost in deeds of daring among
the Paris Communists were women. It only
shows how the gentleness of the sex can be
turned to fierceness by association with
rough and bloodthirsty men, or by famili-
arity with scenes of violence.
	DIVORCE, WHICH was at one time deemed
cause for painful reproach has now become
fashionable, and the lady of the period can
meet with the utmost nonchalance the former
husband, while she hangs on the arm of
the present one. Our grand-parents looked
at things differently; but they had a kind
of old-fashioned faith in honor, honesty,
esteem and love, that is little admired now.
	OHIO HAS a Farmer’s Club for Women,”
the members of which meet regularly to
discuss practical questions applicable to farm
life; such as making bread, best methods of
curing fruit, how to make and keep pickles,
both sour and sweet, how to clean house
with the least confusion, least destruction
to furniture and most expedition, and the
like. This, certainly, is more becoming and
more profitable than the idle gossiping
which is fashionable.
	MISS PHOEBE Cousins, who was admitted
to the bar as a practicing lawyer in Salt
Lake City, as she could not secure such
recognition in St. Louis, is an applicant for
postmistress of the latter city, a Washing-
ton paper says. Why should she not be
successful? Unless, indeed, it may be
shown that her services in electioneering
last Fall were not so valuable as that of
some men whose persuasive powers, or
whisky expenditures, were more potent
with the “sovereigns” on election day.
	DR. NEWMAN, Chaplain of the United
States Senate and noted as coming to Salt
Lake to shear but going away with but little
fleece, having been appointed Inspector of
Consulates at a handsome salary and ex-
penses paid, was authorized to take a clerk
with him at $3,500 a year; and knowing
that Mrs. Newman would also like to travel,
sent her name in as clerk. This was
keeping the place in the family, which
might as well draw the money as there will
be little, if any, work to do. Dr. Newman,
however, is not on general principles, an
advocate of woman’s rights; only as far as
Mrs. Newman’s drawing her salary may go
he possibly is.
	PRESIDENT GRANT has appointed Mrs.
Cunningham postmistress of Provo, Utah,
and we understand the choice is acceptable
to the people, as the lady performed the duties
of the oflice very efficiently for some time
prior to the death of her late husband, who
was postmaster. In connection with post-
offices, we might say, while applauding the
commissioning of Mrs. Cunningham, that it
would seem a little singular anywhere else
than in Utah that all or nearly all the im-
portant post offices, where any pecuniary
benefit is derivable, are placed in the hands
of comparatively recent settlers in the Ter-
ritory; while the old settlers have the
chance to run post offices where the pay
does not cover the expenses, and the work,
consequently, has to be done “free, gratis,
for nothing.” We say this might seem
strange anywhere else than in Utah, but
here, impartiality, or old settlers receiving
paying offices, would be matter for surprise.
	HORACE GREELEY soon followed to the
tomb the woman who had been his partner
in life so long; and now Mrs. James Gordon
Bennett, wife of the other great New York
editor, follows her husband. She died
recently in Germany, and of her an eastern
paper say:	“She	 was formerly Henrietta
Agnes Crean, who kept a small hosiery and
fancy goods store in William street, New
York, when lower Broadway was still a
place of residence. She was a bright, viva-
cious woman, of large frame and great
vitality. At the time of her marriage, which
occurred at St. Peter’s church, in Barclay
street, on the 6th of June, 1840, Mr. Ben-
nett made the occasion conspicuous in the
columns of his newspaper, and afterward
faithfully recorded the birth of his children
in the same manner. Four children were
born to them, two of whom, a son and a
daughter, survive. Mrs. Bennett at one
time wrote a number of letters from Europe
for the ‘Herald.’ and they were distin-
guished by much vivacity and dash.”
	THERE HAS been a surfeit of horrors
during the last two weeks. The Atlantic
steamship, from Liverpool for New York,
with over a thousand souls on board, went
ashore on the coast of Nova Scotia, some
twenty miles from Halifax, and nearly six
hundred of the number were drowned or
dashed to pieces. About two hundred
were instantaneously killed, crushed or
mangled, by a boom breaking loose and
sweeping over the decks; hundreds were
drowned in their beds; many more in their
efforts to escape; while numbers died of cold,
exhaustion, and exposure in the rigging.
One lady, after hanging to the rigging for
six hours, partly sustained by one of the
officers, died still holding on with a death
grip, her clothing nearly torn and washed
from her person, and the jeweled rings that
glittered on her tender fingers, shining with
mocking glare on the hand of death. What
a fearful sight must have been presented!
And not a woman or child escaped; they all
perished; men, only, finding their way to
shore. A mere contemplation in fancy of
the awful scene is sickening; but what must
it have been for the fated participants to
pass through, before death kindly came to
their relief! Since then heavy floods in the
east have done great damage; destructive
conflagrations have devoured property and
life; and disasters have been of almost daily
occurrence. These are signs of the times,
if the world would but open its eyes to note
their intent.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LEFT ALONE AT EIGHTY.

			BY ALICE ROBBINS.

	What did you say, dear, breakfast?
		Somehow I’ve slept too late;
	You are very kind, dear Effie,
		Go, tell them not to wait;
	I’ll dress as quick as ever I can,
		My old hands tremble sore,
	And Polly, who used to help, dear heart!
		Lies t’otter side o’ the door,

	Put up the old pipe, deary.
		I couldn’t smoke to-day;
	I’m sort o’dazed and frightened,
		And don’t know what to say.
	It’s lonesome in the house, here,
		And lonesome out o’ door—
	I never knew what lonesome meant,
		In all my life, before.

	The bees go humming, the whole day long,
		And the first June rose has blown,
	And I am eighty, dear Lord, to-day,
		Too old to be left alonel
	Oh, heart of love! so still and cold,
		Oh, precious lips ! so white—
	For the first sad hours in sixty years,
		You were out of my reach, last night

	You’ve cut the flower. You’re very kind.
		She rooted it last May.
	It was only a slip; I pulled the rose,
		And throw the stem away;
	But she, sweet thrifty soul, bent down,
		And pla[-]ted it where she stood,
	“Dear, maybe the flowers are living,” she said,
		“Asleep, in this bit of wood.”

	I can’t rest, deary—I cannot rest;
		Let the old man have his will.
	And wander from porch to garden post—
		The house is so deathly still;
	Wander, and long for a sight of the gate
		She has left ajar for me—
	We had got so used to each other, dear,
		So used to each other, you see.

	Sixty years, and so wise and good,
		She made me a better man,
	From the moment I kissed her fair young face,
		And our lover’s life began.
	And seven fine boys she has given me,
		And out of the seven, not one
	But the noblest father in all the land
		Would be proud to call his son.

	O, well, dear Lord, I’ll be patient,
		But I feel sore broken up;
	At eighty year, it’s an awesome thing
		To drain such a bitter cup
	I know, there’s Joseph and John and Hall,
		And four good men beside,
	But a hundred sons couldn’t be to me
		Like the woman I made my bride.

	My little Polly; so bright and fair!
		So winsome and good and sweet!
	She had roses twined in her sunny hair.
		White shoes on her dainty feet;
	And I held her hand—Was it yesterday
		That we stood up to be wed ?
	And—No, I remember, I’m eighty to-day,
		And my dear wife, Polly, is dead.


﻿F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
	
	Sister Priscilla Evans, Secretary of the
Spanish Fork Relief Society, writes as fol-
lows:
	The Spanish Fork Relief Society, was
organized September 14th, 1857, in 4 wards.
Mrs. Rhoda Snell, President of the first and
Mrs. Lucretia Gay, President of the second
ward. We have had opportunities in the
last 16 years of doing much good, in help-
ing the poor, and assisting to build up this
Kingdom. I would especially mention the
time of the Echo kanyon expedition; when
among other things, we were called upon for
lariats. Some of our faithful mothers
worked day and night, carding and spin-
ning cattle’s hair for that purpose; they
made and brought in twenty-two lariats.
I don’t know but some of our daughters
would blush to read of such a thing in this
enlightened age; but, why should they?
I consider every trial we pass through in
this Kingdom, if done with an eye single to
its progress or defence, will give us experi-
ence and help to bring us conquerors
through, if we are faithful to the end. I
find in looking over the old accounts—
donated to the poor at different times, $1,227,
to the Emigrant fund and building of the
Temple, $294, to the meeting-house and
donations of labor $841; total, $2,362.
Through the exertions of a few, a great deal
can be accomplished.
	Sister Snell worked faithfully for 14 
years as President of 1st Ward Society,
until sickness in her family compelled her
to resign her office. Sister Gay also resigned,
on account of age and a large family to
attend to; but they are always ready with
their good counsel, and to assist when there
is a call. Mrs. Letitia A. Davis, (deceased,)
acted as Counselor to sister Gay until her
resignation, when sister Davis was called to
to the Presidency, which office she filled
honorably until ill health caused her also to
resign. The Spanish Fork F. R. Society
was reorganized in 1871 into 1st and 2nd
Districts, Mrs. C. A. Williams, President;
Mrs. Ruth Davis, and Mrs. J. Warren, 
Counselors, Mrs. Thirza Thurber, Treasurer
of 1st District. Since that time we have
donated to the poor, emigration and other
funds $225, and have in Co-operative shares,
cash and goods, $130. A meeting was called
March 11th, at which it was proposed that
we dispense with the word “Female” in
the name of the Society, which was seconded
and carried. It was also proposed that we
continue our meetings, and have a meeting
for prayer and testimony every Fast-day in
the afternoon. Your valuable paper is re-
ceived and appreciated by many. Success
to it, and every other herald of truth.

	From Providence, Cache County, we re-
ceive the following:
	Our Society was organized, April 27th,
1868. From that time, we have prospered,
a good spirit prevailing among the members.
It is a satisfaction to us to know that we
may lighten the burdens of our brethren in
helping to roll forth the Latter-day work.
Last year the sisters here donated to help to
gather the poor from the nations, in cash,
stock and grain, to the amount of $171:50.
We have also assisted our brethren towards
erecting a fine hall that is being built, and
donated means for the benefit of the Sabbath
school; have shares in the Co-operative
store, and the wants of the poor among us
have been supplied. The teachers visit the
members every month and find out the con-
ditions and feelings, and see that none
suffer for the common necessaries of life.
We hold meetings every month, and fre-
quently we have sewing meetings at private
houses, making clothes for the poor. At a
meeting held last October, the word “Fe-
male” was dropped from the name of our
Society by a unanimous vote.
	Mrs. Margaret Mathews, Prest.
	Mrs. Louisa Hammond, 	}	
	Mrs. Margaret Fife 		} Counselors
	Mrs. Emily Maddison, Secretary.

	The following letter comes to hand, from
Mrs. Caroline A. Jackson, Secretary of the
Relief Society of St. George, Washington
County:
	At a meeting in November our branch of
the Relief Society voted to drop the word
“Female” as recommended by Sister Eliza
R. Snow. During the past winter our
meetings have been well attended, and at
our first meeting in January 1873, President
Anna L. Ivins suggested to omit work and
substitute prayer and testimony as a fitting
beginning of the New Year, which was
done, and the spirit of the Lord was made
manifest in a remarkable manner.
	On the 14th of February, at a dinner
given to President Young and party, much
good instruction was given to the members
of the Society and a new interest was
awakened which has resulted in many new
members being added to our number, and a
prompt attendance of old members. We
feel honored in having our names enrolled
in this organization, and desire with our
sisters in the more favored “North,” to
help build up the Kingdom of God on the
earth.

	From South Cottonwood Ward, we have
received the following report:
	The Relief Society of this place is in a
flourishing condition, although there are
but few that attend our meetings. There
is a united desire with the sisters who are
faithful, to aid in building up the Kingdom
of God. At a recent meeting the word
“Female” passed into disuse with us in con-
nection with the Society’s name, in the
proper manner. We have additions to our
Society quite frequently; and have an inter-
est in almost every enterprise in this ward.
We are very much pleased with your inter-
esting and valuable paper, which a good
portion of the sisters take at present; and
we wish you prosperity in the enterprise.
	Mrs. Jenett Cahoon, President;
	Mrs. Lucy Bullock } Counselors;
	Mrs. Eliza Greene }
	Mrs. Ann E. Labrum, Secretary.
	Mrs. Francis Litson, Treasurer.


INFLUENCE OF A SMILE.—There is noth-
ing which makes the human face so
attractive as a bright smile. It breaks over
the countenance like the sun-light through
the rain clouds after a shower, and it enlivens
all upon whom it rests. A countenance,
ever so stolid and impassable and hard,
often becomes softened, vivacious and
charming under the influence of a smile.
There is something indescribable about a
smile, and a great deal of character is often
exhibited in it. No man or woman with a
really bad heart ever possessed an open,smil-
ing face, which brought peace and gladness
with it. Beware of the man who never
smiles, for “the motions of his spirit are as
dull as night, and his affections are as dark
as Erebus.”
	The smile of tenderness and affection
from the mother’s face greets us upon our
entry on the journey of life, and the recol-
lections of it lingers sweetly in the heart
while reason lasts. The smile of encourage-
ment in distress or sickness, is often worth
more than money or medicines. In the
domestic circle it lightens the burden of
life, and makes the hardest lot cheerful and
endurable. It is the offspring of Hope, and
the pledge of amity between friends. A
broad smile was never inspired by a bitter
thought or an uncharitable desire. In the
face where smiles prevail, happiness reigns
and a gentle human charity dwells in the
bosom of such. A smile is the language of
kindness and forbearance, and it emanates
only from the soul in harmony with nature,
and at peace with all the world.


﻿Corn is cheaper than wood for fuel in
Iowa lime kilns.
	That was a beautiful idea in the mind of
a little girl, who, on beholding a rose-bush,
on the topmost stem of which a rose was
fading, whilst below and around it three
beautiful crimson buds were just unfolding
their charms, at once and earnestly ex-
claimed to her brother: “See William these
little buds have awakend in time to kiss
their mother before she dies.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Woman was created for a helpmate for
man, and while it is his duty to provide for
and protect her, it is no less her duty to
assist him in all the minor affairs of life.
Her province is home; there she should
reign supreme, her busy steps never flag-
ging, her watchful eye never wearying;
the welfare of her children, the happiness of
her husband, her constant care. She should
strive to make her home the most delight-
ful place on earth to him, that when the
toils of the day are ended, and he seeks it
for repose, he may find in it his cares light-
ened, his sorrows soothed; that he may go
forth again to the contest with renewed
vigor and with cheerfulness and encourage-
ment in his heart.
	Domestic duties, and even, as is often the
case, household drudgery must necessarily
fall to her lot, and though she does not
shrink from the performance of these, there
are those of a different kind which have
no less claim upon her. God has given her
a mind, has bestowed upon her intellect,
and it is her duty to cultivate it—it is a
religious duty, for it was given her for a
noble, purpose that she might be her hus-
band’s pride, a fit instructress of her child-
ren, an ornament in her home. She should
not suffer the common details of everyday
life to render her manners coarse, or sour
her temper, but always strive to be mild,
refined, and polite.
	But woman—“the weaker vessel”—frail,
fragile woman, does she not need encourage-
ment and assistance? Is her life, though
spent in obscurity, exempt from trials,
snares, and temptations. Are there no
rough places in her pathway, no difficulties
to surmount?
	Her task is great, very great, and while
she earnestly tries to perform it, should she
not be strengthened and encouraged by words
and tones of affection and approval? This
is due her. If her husband desires a plea-
sant home he should prove to her that he
can appreciate one. If she must soothe his
troubled spirit let him not be impatient
should he sometimes detect a cloud upon
her brow; let him remember that poor
human nature connot always bask in the
sunshine, and that one cheering, loving
word from him might dispel the gloom
which rests upon her spirits. He desires
her to be delicate and modest, refined and
elegant, mild and affectionate, then let him
not shock her by coarse and unkind manners
and profane language.—“Magazine.”
	A cure for morbid thoughts.—Eat
mush and milk for supper, go to bed at nine
o’clock in the evening, rise at six in the
morning, and walk three miles every day.
	Sick Headache.—This is attended
with nausea and sometimes vomiting, and
is attributed to a disordered liver. Take
frequent sips of warm water until the
nausea subsides, and then occasional sips of
cold water.
	Pearl Barley, with water, simmered
to a jelly, is a valuable food for infants.
Strain all seeds, etc., before it gets cold,
Mix with due quantity of milk, or with-
out milk if preferred, and give it warm.
This is a happy medium between oatmeal
and arrowroot.
	Cleaning.—All saucepans, copper or
otherwise, and all bright tins, dish covers,
etc., ought if possible to be cleaned every
week. Spanish whiting and sweet oil,
made into a paste, rubbed on and allowed
to stand a little, then wiped off, and the
things polished with a leather and dry
whiting, will make tins and dish covers
look very nice.
	Whitening Ivory. — An, approved
method of whitening ivory that has turned
yellow, consists in heating a thin chalk paste
in a vessel over a fire, and then immersing
the ivory and leaving it until it has reached
the proper degree of whiteness. It is then
to be taken out, dried and polished off.
This method is preferred by a German
writer to one that has been a good deal in
use, namely, placing the ivory in a saturated
solution of alum for an hour, and afterward
rubbing it off with a woolen cloth, and then
wrapping it in a linen one, in which it is to
be allowed to dry.
	To clean Paint.—Provide, a plate with
some of the best whiting to be had, and
have ready some clean warm water and a
flannel, which dip into the water and
squeeze nearly dry; then take as much
whiting as will adhere to it, apply it to the
painted surface, when a little rubbing will
instantly remove any dirt or grease. After
which, wash the part well with clean water,
rubbing it dry with a soft wash-leather.
Paint thus cleansed looks as well as when
first laid on, without any injury to the most
delicate colors. It is far better than using
soap, and does not require more than half
the time and labor.


﻿ THE GOOD SPIRIT.
				—
	The Prophet Joseph Smith told the people
to “get the Spirit of God, and keep it.”
What a sermon there is in these few words!
If we always had the Spirit of God, we
would never do a wrong thing; for that
Spirit leads into all truth and goodness.
When any trial or temptation besets us,
if we possess that Spirit, we are sure to
come off victorious; and have strength to
withstand all the shafts of the adversary
which are directed against our peace and
happiness. But how prone is human nature
to give way, and let some little trial bring
wretchedness for hours, and perhaps days,
when it is our duty to be happy all the
time. When we are unhappy ourselves,
everyone around us partakes of the same
feeling, more or less, and they feel bad too.
Consequently we see that it is a duty we
owe to our friends as well as ourselves to
keep the Spirit of God continually, which is
the spirit of peace. I think if we could
realize how much easier it is to keep that
Spirit, than to regain it after we have
grieved it from us, we would try harder
than we do to overcome evil; for I am sure ;
there is no one that enjoys being miserable
so well as being happy. There are two
things that we should seek and pray for,
namely, patience and charity. Without
these there can be no true happiness. Then
let us my young sisters, strive with our
might to keep the good Spirit always with
us, to help us to be Saints in deed as well as
in name, and set an example worthy of im-
itation.	
							M. F


﻿We are always complaining that our days
are few, and acting as though there would
be no end of them.
	Though a taste of pleasure may quicken
the relish of life, an unrestrained indulgence
is inevitable destruction.
	The odor of flowers is never so sweet and
strong as before a storm. Beautiful soul!
when the storm draws nigh thee, be a
flower.
	Our true acquistions lie only in our chari-
ties. We gain only as we give. There is
no beggar so destitute as he who can afford
nothing to his neighbors.


DELICACY IN CHILDREN.
				   —
	Dio Lewis relates a story of a wealthy
gentleman and lady whose family he was
called upon to attend. Several children had
been born to them, and each had lived to a
certain age and had then been taken away
by death. At the time when the aid of the
noted physician was required, their last two,
a son and a daughter, had reached the ap-
pointed age, at which all the former child-
ren of the house had been snatched away,
and the consumptive decline by which the
others had been carried off was irresistibly
and unmistakably fastening upon them.
The doctor entered, the house and spent
some time in watching the little invalids.
He then asked the mother if she would
allow him to take  the little girl into the
garden. She assented, and accordingly,
the child was carried out into the beautiful
garden which belonged to the rich home-
stead. “Which, of all the shrubs and
flowers do you think the most lovely?’,
enquired the physician of the child. After
careful consideration she selected a moss
rose bush in full bloom, as being, to her
mind, the most beautiful of all in the gar-
den. Then the Doctor asked the child if
she could not return to the house and tell
her mother he wanted a suit of her—the
child’s—clothes—One of every article that
she wore, he said to her. When the little
girl had told her mother, the latter went to
the Doctor to ascertain if the child had
understood aright; and when informed that
she had, did as requested, bringing a little
suit of her daughter’s clothes; shoes, stock-
ings, chemise, drawers, petticoats, dress,
pinafore and even to the “shaker” which
the child had worn in the garden. The
Doctor took the garments, and with them
dressed the rose-bush which the child had
chosen. Every thing except the shoes, he
made use of, cutting the stockings open and
fastening them to the bottom of the bush.
When this was done, “There,” said he, “I
will visit you again in two weeks madam.
Do not give the child any kind of medicine,
and let the bush remain as I leave it.”
	In a fortnight he called again, as he had
promised. Going with the mother to the
garden he undressed the rose-bush, which
was drooping and withered and almost life-
less.
	“See,” he said; but even now the anxious
mother did not understand the meaning of
the exemplification, but wanted to be told
still more plainly the cause of her children’s
malady. “Look at this bush,” said the
Doctor; “a little while longer being thus
clothed, and shut in from the air and sun,
it would have been dead. Now there is
still life remaining sufficient to build upon,
and have health restored by proper treat-
ment. It is the same with your children.”
And still the mother queried what she could
do for them. “Give them air,” said the
physician, “undress them, and let them
bask in the sunshine. But at first with
their heads covered.”
	His directions were followed, proper
screens being prepared in two different
corners of the garden, where the children
were daily undressed and placed for a season
to gambal in the sunlight, while the Smmer
lasted. And the remedy proved effectual,
both children commencing to convalesce at
once.
	This story, told here almost precisely  as
it was repeated to us a few days since,
we believe very many mothers would do
well to draw references from, both for their
own and their offspring's good.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
			LOUISE L. GREENE, EDITOR
	
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers Woman's Exponent.
								Salt Lake City, Utah.
	
			SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 15, 1873.


SPLINTERS.
					—
	The “Danbury News” wonders that “Epi-
zootic hats” have not yet appeared......Colo-
rado is going to send her ores to the Vienna
Exhibition......Senator Frelinghuysen, by
his course on the Utah bill, has managed to
make himself unpopular with the ladies
every where; a pleasing position for a gen-
tleman of refined taste(?)......A vicious colt,
in Kansas, bit a little girl the other day,
who died a few hours after......Japanese
children, between six and twelve years of
age, are to be compelled to attend school....
The bill emancipating slaves in Porto Rico
has passed the Spanish Assembly......It is
asserted that woman as a voter is an accom-
plished fact in England....The Woman
Suffragists of Michigan have asked the
Legislature to strike out the word “Male”
in the State Constitution wherever it re-
stricts the right of suffrage; and they believe
in the final success of their movement......
Hon. S. W. Hale, gallantly got out his own
team, after midnight, and carried home all
the lady passengers who came to Keene one
night, and he is now on the track for the
next Republican nomination for Governor.
......In Ireland every woman who pays any
sum as a poor-rate, has a vote in the election
of Poor Guardians......The women of Massa-
chusetts petition for a separate prison for
women; can there be women criminals
there, sufficient to justify such an act?.....
An exchange says the Beechers take to the
pulpit and to heresy as naturally as ducks
to water; Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker
contemplates devoting herself to the minis-
try......All habitual water drinkers were
recently ordered by a vigilance committee
to leave Pioche City......Caldwell is spoken
of as the “weak-eyed, red whiskered child
of corruption, from Kansas.”......It is twelve 
years since Madame Adeline Patti left this
country, and she contemplates returning.
......The will of Napoleon III is sworn at
under $600,000, left without reserve to the
Empress; the Prince Imperial having but
one bequest, the Imperial crown......The
coal famine in England has led to the dis-
covery that chalk can be used for fuel......It
is estimated that nine million wooden to-
bacco pipes are manufactured in this country
yearly, and it is presumable that there are
blockheads enough to use them up......The
same postmaster has acted at Grayson
Springs in Tennessee, for forty years......
Iowa boot-blacks resolve to charge by the
square foot for shining-up customers...... 
Rome’s reigning beauty for the moment, is
said to be an Austrian, Princess Furstem-
burg......A Troy paper asks, “Shall lunatics
be licensed as murderers?”......Not a single
member of General Grant’s Cabinet is now
a candidate for President......A Vermont
dog was heart-broken at the recent death of
a horse-belonging to its master......Mrs.
Mary Monoghan died recently in New York, 
aged 102 years......A little girl in New Jer- 
sey fell into a cistern the other day; and
although she was in the water fifteen 
minutes before being rescued, she was
revived and recovered after two hours ex-
ertions in her behalf......Mrs Stanton says
the aristocracy of sex is the worst in the
world......Little boys in Oregon prevent
their rocking horses from taking epizootic
by fastening bits of red flannel around their
necks......A daughter of Zachary Taylor,
late President of the United States, Mrs.
Wood has been in destitute circumstances,
but is now to receive a pension of $50 per 
month......A Kansas youth set fire to a
school-house, because his mother would not
allow him to go to the circus......A little
[new column]
western girl, who is very strictly kept by
her parents says she would like to be a
minister that she might “holler on Sun-
day.”......A number of students in the State
University of California lately made their
appearance in last spring straw-hats and
last year dusters......A man in the cars on
the first of April whispered to the conductor
that another man present had just recovered
from small-pox; there was a general scat-
tering, but it proved to be only an “April
Fool."......The 31st ult. was celebrated in
San Francisco by the Spiritualists as the
twenty-fifth anniversary of modern “Spirit-
ualism.”......California prides herself on
the reputation of her '49ers, and grieves
that some of her first missionaries are get-
ting into trouble......One contemporary, by
reading the editorials in another, has found
out that “pain and misery have driven
many a person to desperation.”......Virginia
school girls learn to swim.


THE EXPONENT. 
		    —
	Two numbers after the present will close the
first year of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. So far
its success has been gratifying, the subscription,
list having grown encouragingly–through the
assistance of the friends of the paper in different
parts of the Territory. Yet it is desirable that
it should be still more widely read; and im-
provements which we have contemplated mak-
ing in it cannot be made without a still larger
list of subscribers. We would like to see the
printing of the EXPONENT done in an office
owned by and used for itself, supplied with all
the necessary appliances; where young women
could learn the “art preservative”—printing—
and qualify themselve for some other of the
duties and employments referred to by Presi-
dent Young at Conference. But a printing
office, to be self-sustaining, in connection with
the EXPONENT, would require to do more work
than this paper now demands, and a larger
amount of capital. We therefore ask the ladies
throughout the Territory to kindly use their
endeavors to send in clubs before the 1st of
June, for the second volume of the EXPONENT;
so that the paper may commence its second
year with increased patronage, in every sense
self-sustaining and capable of accomplishing
more good than it is at present; and with
brightened prospects for the future. A list of
premiums will be found on the last page of the
paper; and to that list we would add,
that any person, or Society, sending in
a hundred names, with two dollars a name,
will receive a sewing machine, valued at
seventy-five to ninety dollars, as we can make
arrangements. This we offer not as a prize,
but holding that those who exert themselves
in this respect should have their exertions sub-
stantially recognized, while we can procure
machines on more advantageous terms than
perhaps any of our subscribers could do.
	We would like to receive club-lists as early
as possible, so as to know the number of papers
to have printed, for it is not wise nor economic


policy to print off a large number on specula-
tion, and probably have them left on hand
—waste paper.


WORK FOR WOMEN-
			      —
	One of the most interesting and most im-
portant features of the late general Conference
was the many excellent instructive suggestions,
made by President Brigham Young, to the
mothers and daughters in Israel. He called
upon them, and especially upon the Relief
Societies, to assist in the people becoming self-
sustaining, and counseled them to save and teach
the children to save “paper-rags;” and thus
aid in supplying the paper-mill with material,
so that the paper used by the Latter-day Saints
might be made by themselves, thus keeping
at home the means expended in procuring it
abroad. He then touched upon the impro-
priety of large, healthy, able-bodied men, who
should be engaged in farming, quarrying, stone
cutting, and other suitable pursuits, being em-
ployed as type-setters, proof-readers, book-
binders, clerks in stores, tailors; and in all
such branches of labor, which were legiti-
mately work for women, and should be largely
performed by them. He wished the women
and girls among the Saints to be educated to do
all such work as belonged to women. He was
desirous of seeing the school books used by
children in Utah, made by the people here, and
this also should be done to a great extent by
the women. The female mind was naturally
better fitted for such pursuits than that of the
male. Generally speaking, girls would mem-
orize spelling, grammer, arithmetic and almost
anything taught in books, more readily than
boys. It was a mistake to have girls taught
nothing but to play the piano, and when tired
of that to go to reading novels; they should be
taught cleanliness, neatness of person, and the
duties of a house-wife; with such branches of
useful knowledge as might be desirable, as well
as music and other accomplishments; while
the useful and practical should always take
precedence, and their education should be
wisely directed in all things. The speaker
urged that measures be taken to provide means
by which the women and girls of Utah might
obtain an understanding of and make them-
selves useful in type-setting, book-making and
such other occupations as justly belonged to
them; and that they should take in hand to
furnish the schools and families of the Saints
with suitable, intelligent and truthful reading
matter; that the vast outside expenditure, for
the purchase of books, which were no better,
nor so good as many of the women of Zion
were capable of preparing, might be stopped.
The officers of the Relief Societies, and, after-
ward, all the sisters, who were interested in
the welfare of Zion, were called upon to testify
their willingness to sustain the proposed under-
taking by raising their right hands. A fair
vote was given; and unless the wives and
daughters of the Elders in Israel, prove them
selves less faithful to the trust reposed in them
than they have hitherto done—which, there is
no cause to apprehend—much good will be the
result of the suggested enterprise.
	President Young proves himself to be the
most genuine, impartial and practical “Wo-
man's Rights man” upon the American conti-
nent, as he has ever done; his counsels,
instructions and advice to women being always
directed towards their progess and advancement
in usefulness and the possession of valuable
knowledge. And as these facts are well under-
stood by the large majority of the women of
Utah, we look for a prompt response to this
direct call for united and energetic action on


their part, in furtherance of the great object
of the community becoming entirely self-sus-
taining.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.
	
	The Annual Conference was largely at-
tended and was a season of refreshing. Presi-
dent Brigham Young spoke several times,
giving much, excellent instruction and admon-
ition.
	A pleasing indication of Spring time anp
Spring weather is the sight of little maidens
culling the earliest blossoms which peep mod-
estly up from under the edge of fences and
along the brooklet’s, brink.
	Those who are called to form a settlement in
Arizona, south of the Colorada river, are mov-
ing to get there, some having started while
others will shortly do so. They expect to ren-
desvouz at Kanab and travel south from that
point together.
	The last letter received in this city from
President George A. Smith and the Palestine
party, up to the time of going to press, was
written from Jerusalem, where they had
arrived. Sister Eliza R. Snow had stood the
journey and was proving herself an excellent
horsewoman.
	In few places in this city can an hour or
two be more profitably or enjoyably spent
than in the Deseret Museum, Mr. J. W. Young
proprietor and Professor Barefoot superinten-
dent. The collection is large and varied, and a
wonderful amount of information can be
gained in it in a short time. 
	The Deseret Teachers’ Association held its
semi-annual meeting in this city during Con-
ference, and was largely attended; while the
programme of exercises elicited much valuable
information. An address by School Superin-
tendent R. L. Campbell reached us too late to
be given in this number of the Exponent, but
will appear in our next issue.
	The meeting of Sunday School Superinten-
dents, in this city, on Monday evening, April
7th, was exceedingly interesting, nearly, if not all,
the counties in the Territory being represented,
while a report was also handed in from Malad,
Oneida County, Idaho. From the reports of
the Superintendents this medium of good is
flourishing throughout the entire community.
Much interest is manifested in the schools by
parents and children, the average attendance
is large, and great good is resulting from the
labors of the superintendents and teachers of
the various Sabbath Schools. It is a noble
work, blessing those who teach as well as those
who are taught; and has the prayers and best
wishes of all who seek the welfare and growth
in grace and in sound principles of the rising
generation.


﻿LUCCA has taken out her preliminary nat-
uralization papers.
	OVER 1,000 American girls are now re-
ceiving their education in English schools.
	A female student of medicine out West,
wrote home to her friends for $28, “to buy a
man to cut up.”
	A LADY thinks it very strange that when-
ever she goes to balls with an escort, he al-
ways goes out between the dances to get
some cloves to chew.
	A PROJECT is on foot among the numerous
New York ladies for forming an insurance
company having only women for officers,
agents and policy holders.
	ETERNITY has no grey hairs. The flowers
fade, the heart withers, man grows old and
dies, but time writes no wrinkles in eternity.


﻿WHAT MOTHERS CAN DO
			       —
	To none is given greater responsibilities
than those resting on mothers in training
their children in the fear of the Lord. We
are all aware that when we receive these
precious darlings, from the hands of their
Maker, they are perfectly innocent and
pure. Now, mothers, we have these dear
little ones committed to our charge to mould
and fashion, as it were, to our own liking.
They receive their first impressions from
us, and how important it is that those early
impressions should be directed in the right
channel. We wish to see our children grow
up to be noble men and women, honorable,
virtuous and intelligent; we wish them to
be affable and kind in their feelings to each
other, and to all with whom they associate.
And it seems to me that we can have the
desires of our hearts with regard to our
children in a great measure, if we are faith-
ful in the discharge of our duties to them
during their young and tender years. If
we instil into their minds the importance
of being obedient, truthful, virtuous and
obliging, and are kind and affectionate to
them in all our acts, and thereby twine them
around us, so that they will feel that we are
their best friends and advisers, they will be
willing to listen to our counsel; and then
if they ever see that they have done any-
thing that has grieved their parents, they
will be sorry for it, and try in the future
to do better. We should not fail to instruct
them in the principles of faith, that as the
Savior, when he was upon the earth, loved
little children and took them in His arms,
and blessed them, He still loves them,
and loves to listen to their prayers. Our
children thus taught, when they are sick,
will call upon their parents, or the Elders
to lay their hands upon them that they may
recover. And so with all the principles of
the Gospel; they will grow into them, hav-
ing had them impressed upon their minds
in infancy, and they will not fight against
any of the commandments of God; but will
be like those two thousand young men
commanded by Helaman, that we read of in
the Book of Mormon, Alma, 26th chapter.
They had been taught faith in God by their
mothers, and they did not fear to go into
battle, for they had been taught that if they
did not doubt, God would deliver them.
	Not only can mothers mould the minds of
their children in relation to religious and
moral matters, but, according to the care,
thought and judgment they use for the
purpose of fashioning and developing the
physical organization, will depend very
much, the strength or weakness, good or ill
health of their offsprings during life.
	For the sake of their children, if not for
themselves, mothers are in duty bound to
learn as far as possible, and strictly observe
the laws of health. This subject will bear
much further consideration, and I hope to
see it largely treated upon in the EXPO-
NENT.		   A MOTHER IN ISRAEL.


﻿DUNLOP says that in all European litera-
ture there are not more than three hundred
distinct plots, and two hundred and fifty of
these are earlier than Christianity, and had
their origin in Asia. Almost all the news-
paper jokes have reached a venerable age;
the Irish bulls are Greek.
	NEVER give up when you are right. A
frown is only a muscular contraction, and
cannot last long. A laugh of derision is but
the modified bark of a cur. If you can
laugh out of good, or the good be laughed
out of you, you are weaker in intellect than
the fool, whose argument is guffaw and
whose logic is a sneer.


FACTS AND FIGURES.
			——
	A VINTON man brought sixty-one suits
in a justice court in one day.
	THERE is a widow in England who enjoys 
an income of $2,500,000 a year. 
	THE “Sunday Journal” of Toledo Ohio,
gives three of its columns to be used by the
Woman Suffrage Society of that city.
	AUSTRALIA proposes a free school system, 
and compulsory education, in the interest
of civilization and free institutions.
	NEVADA pays her male teachers $110:75
per month, and her female teachers $92:16.
Louisiana pays respectively $112 and $76.
	THE deepest sea-sounding ever taken
showed a depth of eight miles and three
quarters, double the height of the Andes.
	A BRAZILIAN savant has discovered that
men were on the banks of the Amazon
29,000 years ago.
	A THOUSAND American girls for whom
the schools on this side of the water are not
good enough are receiving their education
in France and Italy.	
	A COLLECTION of twenty five well-made
pins has been found in the subterranean
vaults of Thebes—showing that the modern
pin is only a re-invention. 
	A RECENT medical writer of good authority
says: “It is certain that in our times, among
our brain workers, there are 999 who do not
sleep enough to one who sleeps too much.
	A CEDAR Rapids woman has invented a
machine for making lace, consisting of 100
bobbins, and on this has manufactured hand-
kerchiefs and collars and lace equal to any
imported from Paris. 
	DANIAL Webster once said, “I well re-
member a marked difference between those
of my schoolmates who had, and those who
had not, access to newspapers. Other things
being equal, the first were always superior
to the latter in debate, composition; and
general intelligence.”
	A MIDDLING sized man would weigh as
much as 4,000 wrens, and as much as 10,000
locusts. The note of a locust can be heard
1-16th of a mile. If a man of moderate size
could make his note heard at a distance
proportionate in comparison to his size, his
voice would be heard at a distance of 1,000
miles.
	EX-Governor Merrill, J. P. Casady, John
A. Elliott, S. F. Spafford and ex- Lieut.
Gov. Gue, have formed a stock company
with a capital of $40,000, under the name
of State Printing Company located at Des
Moines. The object of this association is to
manufacture patent “insides” and “out-
sides” for the newspapers of Iowa, either
Republican, Democratic or neutral in poli-
tics.
	THE number of women who aspire to the
baccalaureate of belles letters, increases from
day to day in France. Madame Ribard,
wife of a young physician of Nantes, has
passed successfully the examinations for the
degree of Bachelor of Arts. After having
presented excellent written compositions
the young woman was questioned orally in
the presence of a large audience and passed,
after a series of interrogations, brilliantly
sustained.
	A TOWN meeting was to be held at Dan-
bury, Conn., recently, to decide whether or
not to license the sale of intoxicating
liquors. On the preceding day the ladies of
the town voted on the question in regular
form, with the following result:—For
license, 2, against license, 457. On the 
following day the men voted—for license,
452, against license, 487.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


﻿FEMALE PHYSICIANS.
			—
	At Steinway Hall last evening a very iutel-
ligent appearing audience assembled to
assist at the commencement exercises of the
Women’s Medical College of the New York
Infirmary. On the platform were several
well-known physicians of this city and other
distinguished citizens, among whom were
Judge John R. Brady and Nathaniel James,
Jr. Mr. Samuel Willetts, President of the
college, presided at the exercises, which,
after a voluntary on the organ by Mr. G. W.
Morgan, were opened with the conferring
of degrees of the following named graduates:
—Miss Abbie Luelle Fox, of Illinois; Miss
Charlotte Warner Ford, of New Jersey; Miss
Ellen Currie Leggett, of New York; Miss
Jeanette Taylor, of New Jersey; Miss Emily
Hellen Wells, of Pennsylvania, and Miss
Kate Cecilia Woodhull, of New York:	The
obligation was read to each of the graduates
by Mrs. Emily Blackwell, M. D., Secretary
of the Faculty; after which the diplomas,
were presented by Mr. Willetts.
	Prizes were then awarded as follows:—To
Miss Emily H. Wells, for the best report of
the medical clinique, “Nehmeyer’s Practice
of Medicine;” to Mrs. Sarah E. Crocker, for
the best report of the surgical clinique, a
splendid case of surgical instruments; to
the same for the best report of the eye and
ear clinique, a handsome opthalmoscope.
For report of the eye and ear clinique, Miss
E. Baldwin recived “honorable mention.”
	The valedictory was then read by Miss
Emily H. Wells, after which Judge Brady
delivered one of his characteristic humorous
and philosophical addresses, with which the
exercises closed.—“New York Herald,
March 26.


﻿FAMILY MEETINGS.
		     —
	No gathering can be more sacred and yet
jubilant, or should be more conscientiously
recorded in the memories of the participants,
than the gathering together of the “family
circle,” after seasons of separation have
elapsed; changes having taken place since
the old, happy days when the parents were
young and the children small; new associa-
tions having been formed, new branches
woven in, individual cares and responsibili-
ties having been linked with the funda-
mental household cause, which is dear alike
to each member. There are they all—the
gray haired sire and grand-sire, with his
best of all God's gifts to him, the partner
of his life, sharer of his every joy and hope,
counsoler of his griefs, his faithful wife; who
hath borne for him that group of kindred
hearts. Brothers and sisters and their little
ones all congregated once more at “Father’s
house”—fair, typical display of grander
scenes, the blest, bright future in Eternal
Worlds.
	No timid spirit, fearing to be seen or
heard is there, nor restraint is felt; one is
not higher, greater than the rest, but all
alike are free and equal.
	With all the different casts of character
comprising a medley of entertaining lights,
with all the varying tasets and impulses,
imaginations, fancies, whims, and thoughts
inspired; there still exists with all, in all,
one natural sentiment uniting heart to
heart, and making each one’s interests the
common cause of all. Love, is that senti-
ment, love which reigns supreme within
the walls of every true home. For no
abode, however richly graced or proudly
ornamented or brilliantly illumined, should
bear the sacred name of home, where love
is not, or not considered chief of all attrac-


tions. And in large families, will be found
such vast varieties from nature’s store, that
the admiration, fervency of devotion and
warmth of affection in every soul, will find
some rich enchantment where, upon to feast.
	Some natures are best pleased with their
own like, as some thoughts call for echoes
of themselves; while others most adore
their opposites. But in the “family meet-
ing,” every desire for congeniality, of a
lofty nature, can be gratified. There will
be found the jocund, happy boy; the shy,
coy maiden; genius riper grown; and pleas-
ing innocence of tender years. There music,
mirth and joyous wit abound; and holy
aspirations are awakened and expressed;
a father’s prayer, a mother’s grateful smiles;
brothers’ and sistefs’ confidence exchanged;
aunts’ kindly sympathies for childish way-
wardness; uncles’ brave, manly generosity;
nephews and nieces—all are pets with all—
each is in some particular respect a favorite
with each, and every one delighted with
the “Family Meeting at Father’s House.
								  L.


﻿SABBATH SCHOOL TEACHERS.
				—
	It is often remarked that the teacher in
the Sabbath School, can do as much to help
in sustaining the cause of Truth as can the
missionary to foreign climes, preaching the
Gospel. The same sentiment was expressed
by one of the Elders who made an address
at the late Sabbath School Concert, held in
the old Tabernacle in this city, and a new
meaning came with the words as they were
uttered there. Women, as well as men,
may be efficient teachers. How many
young ladies, belonging to the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, have felt
that if would be a joy and great gratifica-
tion to them if they could have the privilege
of proclaiming the glad tidings of Truth and
salvation to those who are afar off, held in
darkness and in ignorance! And some 
times has not the feeling arisen that the
greater power for obtaining a fulness of glory
had been bestowed upon man, while his
faithful helpmate was destined to follow in
the rear? Here we find all cause for envy
or jealousy in that respect obliterated.
Woman may teach, by word and by example,
the fullness of the Everlasting Gospel, as
plainly, as faithfully as man. What more
can be done for the gaining and maintaining
of the highest exaltation?
	But to truly teach a principle, it should be
practically understood by the teacher. Hence,
no pains should be spared by a Sabbath-
School teacher, by which acquaintance may
be formed with any branch of learning that
may be made beneficial to a pupil or a class.
It matters not how simple a truth may be, it
is worth impressing upon the mind of youth.
It is only by a grand compilation of divine
truths, each one small in itself, that great
wisdom is wrought; and no teacher of youth
should be above explaining the simplest
fact which might puzzle the young learner.
	There are greater responsibilities resting
upon teachers of Sabbath Schools than many
are aware. As their missions are no less
than those which the Elders are called to
perform in going forth to teach the nations
of the earth, and warn them to repent of
their sins, should their condemnation be less
if they allow themselves to be slack and
careless in performing their duties in the
Sabbath School, than that of the unfaithful
servant who is sent abroad? The Sabbath
School teacher should seek as constantly and
fervently, the spirit of faith and revelation
to direct his efforts, as should the mission-
ary upon the seas or in foreign lands.


THE SEX.
				—
	Mrs. Sarah E. White will hereafter
manage the Bloomfield, Mo., “Republican.”
	Charlotte Cushman’s health seems to be 
quite broken down. She has finally given
up her public engagements in the South and 
West.	
	IN Rockford, Illinois, Mrs. Wilder the
young wife of a Chicago capitalist, publicly
horse whipped John White, proprietor of
one of the principal hotels in that place.
	A WHITE marble statue of Queen Vic-
toria, weighing seven tons, has arrived at
Windsor Castle, and is to be placed in the
vestibule of the state apartments. The 
Queen is represented sitting on a chair, with
a dog lying by her side. 		
	THE author of a memmorial of Alice and 
Phoebe Cary, states that, looking through
the entire mass of their papers, she found
not a single word of their own, refering in 
any personal way to themselve. They 
shrunk from writing letters; they kept no 
diaries of thought or incident.	
	A LADY of Harwich, Mass., attended the
town-meeting, and presented her claims in
opposition to a road which was to pass 
through her land. As she ascended the 
platform, the house was hushed to silence, 
she was listened to with interest, and 
secured the vote in her favor. So much for 
Cape Cod. 
	IN several parts of England, there appear 
to have been established Mechanic’s Insti-
tutes for mutual improvement, in which
young women have the same privileges as
men, and in one of these, Miss Jewsbury,
an authoress, well esteemed, attends the
lectures to a class of young women, who 
take the name of mechanics also.
	CHARLAMANT has a revolutionary pen-
sioner, in the person of Mrs. Thirza Wing,
for services rendered by her late husband
in the campaign of 1777, at the time of
Burgoyne’s surrender at Saratoga. She
is now ninety-five years old, enjoys good
health and all her mental faculties. Her
pension was increased in 1868 from one-
fourth to full pension. 
	When Laplace, met the late Mrs. Somer- 
ville for the first time, he  said, in his lofty 
way, “Madam, there have been only three 
women who have undersood me—yourself,
Caroline Herschel and a Mrs. Creig, of whom 
I have never been able to learn anything.”
“I was Mrs. Creig,” said the modest little
woman. “So, then, there are only two of
you,” exclaimed the philosopher.
	A NUMBER of young women have united
to form the “New York Business Woman's 
Union,” and are now occupying a large house,
at No. 222 Madison Street. The design of the
association is to secure good lodging accom-
modations for respectable women whose
incomes are small. There are about eighty
rooms in the house, which are to be let fur-
nished, at very low rates. 
	A DRIVER, angry with his horses for some
fancied offence, was about to lash them 
severely. A lady interrupted him by in-
quiring the way to a certain street, to a cer-
tain man’s house, both of which she knew 
very well. But the driver too gallant not 
to answer the lady’s questions, had oppor-
tunity for his temper to cool, and restored
the whip to its socket without striking a 
blow.


IF the beautiful and the good are not
always united, we can only say that they
ought to be so, for they belong to each other
as the blossom and the fruit.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


]For the EXPONENT.
	A WARNING.
		—
	Ladies, “beware of wolves who come to
you in sheep’s clothing.” Do you not
know their object when they come to you to
get you to do some fancy work for them?
They wish to form an acquaintance with
you so that they may tell you how smart
you are, and that your “husbands do not
appreciate you, nor furnish you money
enough, and it is altogether too bad,” etc.
Perhaps they will treat you to some little
niceties very frequently, until your judgment
and good sense fail you, if you are not aware
of their motives and do not shun every
appearance of familiarity with them. It is
not worth while to barter your peace of
mind and bring discontentment into your
homes, for the sake of receiving attentions
from a set of worthless, heartless scamps.
Yet I have known wives and even mothers,
who would thus sell themselves and dis-
honor their households, by reason of their
vanity. And I could name more than one
woman, who stands on dangerous ground
to-day, and who, on account of a lack of
firmness and the circumstances surrounding
her, had better beware. Often it has been
repeated and proven, some women do not
comprehend that polished manners and rich
clothing do not make gentlemen.
							L. M. SMITH.


[﻿For the Woman’s EXPONENT.
	    AN INCIDENT IN PLURALITY.
				     —	
	When that true woman and gifted lady,
“Grace Greenwood,” was here, she delivered
a lecture on that inexhaustible and interest-
ing theme “The heroes and heroines of
humble life. Several communications have
of late appeared in the EXPONENT on the
subject of plural marriage. A Gentile
writer, lately puts forth the idea, that the
solution of the “Mormon Problem,” will be
effected through the growing dislike of the
rising generation of “Mormondom,” to this
principle. The foolish, extravagant display,
and inconsiderate expressions of many of our
young people, partly justify this conclusion;
but the surface expression of a portion of
society, is not the heart-index of the people
at large, in their different avocations and by
their firesides.
	When first I came here from the outside
world, there was much that being new,
struck with a strange thrill, and surprised
me. In a settlement some distance from
here, was a large family whose clothing was
chiefly of home manufacture. The third
wife, had two little girls who really needed
new dresses; but how to pay the weaver,
was the serious question. Said an elder
daughter of the first wife; “Get the yarn
ready and I’ll take it home with me” (thirty
miles away) “and weave it for you.” “O!
no Maggie! I couldn’t think of it! You
have so much to do, and need the pay for
your work,” responded the mother of the
little girls with a burst of feeling. The young
woman replied; “I think it a pity if I can’t
do that much for my father’s children! and
I will.” Noble, generous girl! It touched
me then, and has never lost its first effect,
when I have thought of it since. She had
not the money to purchase dresses to present
to those children, but she gave them what
money could not buy—the labor of love
from her own hands, and a place of equality
and honor in her own heart, as, “my father’s
children.”
	I hope this true “heroine of humble life”
will forgive the liberty taken; for it serves
to illustrate that such writers as I have
mentioned, have not seen all; and the picture


is justice due to many of the rising genera-
tion of “Mormondom.”
								A. J. C. 
Salt Lake City, April, 1873.


﻿	WOMAN’S VOICE.

	       	     Farmington, Davis Co.,
				         April 8, 1873.
Editor WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	As a lover of the true principles which
God in His great mercy has again restored
to the earth, I feel, with many of my sisters,
to offer my “mite.” I have been a member
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints from my childhood, and can realize
that the hand of the Lord has been over His
Saints. He has caused streams of water to
burst forth, and the desert to blossom as the
rose. I was in Missouri at the time of the
mobbing and driving of the Saints from
that land and I realize they were miracu-
lously delivered from their enemies; and
the same God has led and guided us to the
valleys of the mountains. I have been in
polygamy for eleven years, and feel thank-
ful to my Father in Heaven, I have never
felt like saying anything against that pure
principle. We know, of course, it is a trial;
but has not God said He would have a tried
people? “After much tribulation cometh
the blessings.” I can truly say I am a hap-
pier woman since I have obeyed this com-
mandment. If we would strive to be
humble and prayerful, it will be a lesson in
the great school which will prepare us for
an exaltation in the Celestial Kingdom of
God.
	I take the EXPONENT and feel amply paid
in reading its interesting pages, especially
the spirited letters of Sister E. R. Snow.
				       	Mary S. Clark.


﻿WOMEN LOVERS.
		      —
   Perhaps you do not know it, but there are
women who fall in love with each other.
Woe be to the unfortunate she, who does the
courting! All the cussedness of ingenuity
peculiar to the sex is employed by “the
other party” in tormenting her. She will
flirt with women by the score who are
brighter and handsomer than her victim.
She will call on them oftener. She will
praise their best bonnets and go into ecsta-
cies over their dresses. She will write
them more pink notes, and wear their “tin
types,” and when despair has culminated,
and sore-hearted Araminta takes to her bed
in consequence, then only will this conquer-
ing “she” step off her pedestal to pick up
her dead and wounded. But then, women
must keep their hand in. Practice makes
perfect.
					     Fanny Fern.


﻿CHRISTIAN graces are like perfumes—the
more they are pressed, the sweeter they
smell; like stars, that shine brightest in the
dark; like trees, the more they are shaken,
the deeper root they take, and the more
fruit they bear.
	GOVERN the appetites, or they will become
tyrants, under whose bondage all that is
noble in human character, will be crushed
out of existence. Besides, indulgence of
the appetites in time destroys health; and,
what is life without health?
	NEVER go back, unless you find you are
wrong. What you attempt, do with all
your strength. Determination is omnipotent.
If the prospects, are somewhat darkened, put
the fire of resolution to your soul, and kindle a
flame that nothing but death can extinguish.


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.
				   —
	SMIGGLES says  that the most thrilling
tale he ever listened to was that of a rattle-
snake.
	A PAYING vein of silver has been dis-
covered on the head waters of the Arkansas
river, in Colorado.
	THE New Orleans “Times” says that the
daily interest on what that city owes is four
thousand dollars.
	THE best indication of a let up of hard
times, according to the Miami “Republi-
can,” is the large increase to marriages.
	THE directors of the Commercial National
Bank of Cleveland have voted to add
$260,000 to the bank’s capital.
	A SOUTHERN Kansas paper thinks it can
increase the population ot the town by offer-
ing to insert birth notices free.
	IT costs $80,000 per annum to keep up the
city government of Denver and supply the
aldermen with whisky straight.
	Beecher had an audience of one hundred
and ninety-eight at Rochester, and the
society realized $1:17 after paying expenses.
	IT is the general belief that a decent,
respectable man is safer on the outskirts of
the Modoc camp that in a New York street
car.
	It is believed that in less than two cen-
turies English will be the dominant lan-
guage, and will be almost exclusively
used in scientific works.
	THE Jewell “Clarion” man says he is able
to keep afloat by drinking his coffee without
sugar and turning his collar three times a
month. He thinks that’s economy.
	THE first Russian newspaper was pub-
lished over one hundred and sixty years
ago, under the special patronage of Peter
the Great, one of its principal contributors.
	SEDALIA wants to give the cold
shoulder to 1,100 colored folks, citizens of
the town, by asking the Missouri legislature
to cut off the Ward containing them from
the city limits.
	THE table on which the Declaration of
Independence was signed is still in exis-
tence in South Carolina. It has always
remained in the Laurens family, one of
whose ancestors was a “signer.”
	THE foreman of the Newborn “Journal
of Commerce” is only sixteen years old.
He and his brother, aged fourteen, set up in
a day fifteen full columns of bourgeois.—
“Eastern Paper.”
	THE “Bridge of Sighs” was a passage
in the gloomy bridge connecting the ducal
palace at Venice with the prisons, through
which condemned prisoners were led to
their death.
	THE Cathedral of St. Peters at Rome, is
four hundred and sixty-three feet; St.
Paul’s, London, four hundred and four feet;
The Monument, Lundon, is two hundred
and ten feet high.
	THE foreman of the “New Northwest,”
Portland, about as neatly gotten up a paper
as comes to this office, is but 16 years old.
the paper is set up in brevier and made
ready for the press each week by the fore-
man and two younger brothers.—“Lafayette
Courier.”
	IN Louisville some kindly disposed people
buy nuts and scatter them in the park for
the squirrels, and it has been discovered
that the tiny quadrupeds are regularly
robbed by boys. When we consider the
depravity of the juvenile heart we wonder
where all the good men come from.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
	INTEMPERANCE.
		    —
	Intemperance is taking a dreadful hold
upon some of our young men. To see the
young going to destruction, is very, very
painful to those who have the interest of
this people at heart. But what can be done?
	Our leaders have faithfully warned the
lovers of stoong drink of the consequence
of giving way to this fatal appetite; fatal
alike to body and mind, to interest here
and hereafter.
	What can a woman say against this in-
sidious disease, (for it is nothing short of a
disease,) when those having authority to
teach have failed to arouse the young to a
sense of their danger? Who can care for
the confirmed inebriate? Is he not a hiss
and a by-word, to both old and young, to
the wise and the foolish, to the religious
and even the wicked who follow not his
ways? Who can trust a drunkard? It
looks as though the fathers of our young
men are much to blame; those who set the
example by sometimes getting drunk which
is worse than habitual drunkenness. Young
men often appear to think it is something
to laugh at. They try it once, twice, thrice,
and so on till the demon fairly enters and is
seldom if ever dislodged. The beastly
habit becomes a deadly Upas tree, blasting
every good principle and virtue in them,
sinking them beneath the level of the brute
creation. It is sad to see men who might be
godlike sinking themselves lower and lower
in such degradation; but who can stay them?
The Lord Himself reasons with them, but
to no purpose, tells them the consequence,
yet still they go on reckless of everything.
Every effort to reclaim seems lost on the
inebriate. Anger, tears, or prayers, all, all
are wasted. There is, in London, a picture
of a Pandemonium. Standing before it one
can imagine the effects of strong drink.
Drunkards in tbeir madness might have
been taken by the artist for his model, the
likeness is so terribly striking. Strong
drink is like a serpent; it fascinates its
victims, throws its folds around them, fold
upon fold, until it has completely crushed
them, and leaves them a shapeless mass,
loathsome to behold. Kind mother Earth
opens her pitying bosom to receive the
wreck intemperance has laid low, she is
his last and only friend, for no one, however
near by nature’s ties, can really grieve for
the drunkard when he is on the earth no
more.
	Not alone in strong drink is intemperance
fatal. It is destructive in every form,
especially in dress. Here it attacks the
young girl, ever crying “give, give!” In-
temperance in dress has filled more brothels
than any other passion, has caused more
desolate homes than any other female vice.
Girls, beware of this passion; indulged in,
it is as fatal as strong drink; it has driven
kind fathers and husbands to ruin, shame
and death. Study to dress well, but never
beyond your means. A calico dress may be
made as graceful as one of satin or velvet;
it is not the cost of the material but the
goodness of the wearer, that makes a dress
beautiful. Many will dress costly yet never
look well.
	Love of money is often without one spark
of generosity, and like the prison whose
walls closed by mechanism, it slowly and
silently crushes out every thing that is noble
or beautiful in the soul of its victims, leav-
ing nothing but dust and ashes.
	What a vast field intemperance covers!
It is the first and last cause of sin, misery
and death. Beware, Oh! beware of intem-
perance!						     MARY.


A  HOUSEHOLD TREASURE.
	Every Family should have a Washing Machine;
and there is none better—if as good—we truthfully
and earnestly consider, having had experience in
working and taken pains in observing several kinds,
as the Telegraph Washing Machine, which is
manufactured in this city, and sold by George God-
dard; to whom all orders concerning it should be
addressed, "P. O. Box 474, Salt Lake City."
	We take pleasure in recommending this Machine
to the ladies of Utah, and advise them to prove its
superiority by purchasing and using it. 
CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for Woman's Exponent.

Z. C. M. I.
	Retail Dry Goods Department.
To meet the demand of an increasing buslness we
have added an essential addition to our
 R E T A I L  R O O M,
wherein the most economical buyer can be suited.
It is our highest ambition to suit our various visitants
and purchasers, and to display our varied fabrics
regardless of purchase.
  This department aims to suit the demands of all
whether in
	DOMESTIC OR FANCY DRESS GOODS,
either by the yard or piece.
				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup’t.
			NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the Exponent and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club -	-	-	-				$18	00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club -	-	-	-				   26  00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	 -	-			   34	00
30 copies. 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-				  48	00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies 
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.
[new column]
TAYLOR & CUTLER, EAST TEMPLE
Street, have & Splendid Line of LADIES’ DRESS
GOODS, which will arrive about the First of April,
selected by Mr. Cutler in New York expressly for
this trade.
FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.
H.   WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock ef confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city.  Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
		    WOMAN’S EXPONENT.	
		A UTAH LADIES’ JOURNAL.
	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.
	They have been grossly misiepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply
	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves ? “ It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!”
	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of Woman’s Exponent, a jou[-]nal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.
	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.
	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.
	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little Is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In Woman’s Exponent a department
will be devoted to roports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.
	Woman’s Exponent will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.
	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1 Copy one year,	     $2.00   	1 Copy six months,  $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00	      10 Copies six months, 9.00
	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.
	Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers Woman’s Exponent, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. I	SALT LAKE CITY, ﻿UTAH, MAY 1, 1873. 	No. 23.


EDITORIAL NOTES. 
		     —
	"ANOTHER WIFE murder” might be
almost the terrible daily cry now. Edgewoods,
near Boston, furnished one of the latest
victims.
	THERE ARE indications of wide-spread
troubles with the savage Indians, and the
savage white man howls madly for exter-
mination.
	MORE OFFICIAL defalcations, and an
occasional pardon for a criminal against the
government, continue to stir the stagnant
flow of public life.
	UTAH AFFAIRS continue to occupy public
attention throughout the country, and dis-
cussion on them shows a plentiful lack of
information on the subject.
	JAPAN WANTS Christianity for state
reasons, though. Many people pretend
they have it, when it is only policy that
dictates the pretense.
	A VIGOROUS political editor inquired, when
informed that Governor Kellogg had lately
been hanged in effigy in New Orleans, why
the people didn’t hang him in earnest in-
stead of in effigy.
	ANOTHER HORRIBLE railroad accident
has occurred, this time in Connecticut,
with “nobody to blame” as usual. Unlike
the steamer Atlantic horror, which was a
prolific topic for over a week, this occupied
public attention for only a day or two!
	AMERICAN COMMISSIONERS to the Vienna
Exposition are charged with the gravest
corruption and venality, and the scandal is
the talk of two continents. Honesty in
public officers would seem to be only “a
relic of barbarism,” like purity and earnest
piety.
	INSTANTANEOUS PHOTOGRAPHY is a late
discovery of importance. The fast horse
“Occident,” owned by ex-Governor Stan-
ford, of California, was photographed while
running at a speed of thirty-two feet a
second. The value of this discovery will
be better understood in the future.
	THE LAVA Bed, where the Modoc In-
dians have their hiding place, is said by
geologists, to be an outflow of volcanic
matter, forming a sea of melted rock which
has hardened and again become like rock,
covering probably a hundred square miles,
and honeycombed with caverns, where it is
impossible to get at them by those unac-
quainted with the nature of the locality.
	HERE IS how “Gath”—or George Alfred
Townsend—in the Chicago Tribune, alludes
to the travels of Dr. Newman and his clerk
—Mrs. Newman. “Gath” has a nice way of
putting it:  “The days of the itinerant
ministry have returned, and the Rev. Dr.
Newman will go on circuit—to Japan. He
travels, like Lorenzo and Peggy Dow, with
his wife, M. F.—,on a free steamship pass.
I refer to the M. F. because under these
modest initials the lady was concealed in
the appointment.”
	A COLORED student of a law-school in the
District of Columbia, was, the other day,
admitted to practice before the Supreme
Court of that Territory. The Supreme
Court of Illinois refuses Myra Bradwell the
right to practice law, because she is a
[new column]
woman, and the Supreme Court of the
United States affirms the decision, because
it is a matter in which the State is supreme;
but in Utah both the colored law-student
and white woman could have been admitted
to the bar on terms of equality. Will some
one tell us what peculiar kind of slavery this
then is, which so manifests itself in Utah?
	THE SUPREME Court of the United States
having decided in the case of Myra Brad-
well against the State of Illinois, that a
woman is not a citizen under the 14th
Amendment to the Constitution, and there-
fore cannot vote, it becomes the duty of all
women, and of all who desire they should
possess their just rights, to earnestly and
persistently agitate for the passage of the
16th Amendment, to secure a recognition of
woman’s right to earn honestly and honor-
ably the means to live, and have a voice as
the political equal of man, in saying how
the taxes, of which she pays her share, shall
be disposed of.
	LOUISIANA IS still terribly unsettled; and
less than a couple of weeks ago a battle
occurred between the whites and blacks, in
which over a hundred of the latter were
shot down. This is veritably a war of races,
and is the result of forcing, by law, the
freedmen into positions of social equality
with and political superiority over their
former owners. It is affirmed that the votes
of the last election have been ignored, and
the Kelogg government, or that sustained
by the colored citizens, is upheld by the
Federal government. Such a condition of
affairs ill accords with the claim of prosper-
ous peace all over the country; and indicates
a condition of feeling which may work much
evil and misery before it is removed.
	ONE OF the Associate Justices of the
Supreme Court of this Territory, T. J. Drake,
sold out his position to O. F. Strickland,
who held the office of Judge here for nearly
four years; and now the whole matter has
been exposed by the commencement of a
suit for tbe recovery of the price of the judi-
cial position. Yet such men have not a
sense of shame sufficient to even try and
cover up their disgrace! No wonder poli-
ticians talk of the incorruptibility of public
men, when here was a Federal Judge, an
officer supposed to be immaculateness per-
sonified, who valued his honor, his official
position and his reputation at $2,800; and
he found a buyer who is charged with be-
coming rich in four years on $3,000 a year,
but who was never wealthy enough to pay
the bill he contracted in buying his office.
And these are the men whose voices have
been so potent against the people of Utah.
	“CAPTAIN JACK,” chief of the Modoc
Indians, on the borders of California and
Oregon, after having failed to receive ac-
ceptable terms from the Peace Commis-
sioners treacherously invited another “peace
talk,” and at the council thus held he and
the Indians with him shot and killed Gen-
eral Canby and Dr. Thomas, one of the
Commissioners, and seriously injured Mr.
Meacham, another Commissioner. Then a cry
rang through the land for the utter exter-
mination of the Modocs, men, women and
children; a cry so barbarously savage, as if
the vengeful Indian spirit had swept over
the country with the utmost fierceness. A
[new column]
noble people, a Christian people, a truly
civilized people, seek justice, not revenge, but
this wild and implacable thirst for revenge,
leveling death against a whole people, youth
and age, manhood and infancy, male and
female, because their leaders, driven to
desperation and goaded by repeated wrongs,
planned and brutally perpetrated a foul
murder, is neither noble, Christian nor civi- 
lized.	
	WE CLIP from the Washington Star, of
April 16th, the following, which settles
negatively woman’s claim to equal rights
even with the colored masculines, under the
14th Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States: “The case of Myra Brad-
well, plaintiff in error vs. the State of Illi-
nois, has been decided in favor of defendant
by the United States Supreme Court, the
Chief Justice alone dissenting. Mrs. Brad-
well, who is the editor of a Chicago law
journal, applied for permission to practice
law in the Supreme Court of Illinois; sub-
mitting the requisite certificate as to charac-
ter and qualification. The application was
denied on the ground that a woman is not
entitled to admission. The applicant
appealed to the Supreme Court of the United
States, claiming that she is a citizen of the
United States, and, therefore, is entitled to
the privilege of practising law in the
State of Illinois, under the provisions of the
Fourteenth Amendment. The United States
Supreme Court affirm the judgment of the
Illinois Supreme Court. Mr. Justice Miller
delivered the opinion of the court. Justices
Bradley, Swayne, and Field concurred in
the judgment, but not in the opinion.”
	AS AN illustration of the quickness of
the eye and delicacy of touch which woman
undoubtedly possesses in a superior degree
to man, we take the following from a
Washington paper; merely adding, that as 
a result of numerous experiments woman
experts are exclusively employed in this
department of the government offices: “Miss
Patterson, of the United States Treasurer’s
office, with two female assistants, has been
at work every bright day for two weeks 
past in overhauling, for the purpose of
identification, the packages of bank notes
and securities which were so badly burned
by Anderson, the insane cashier of Lamber-
ton’s bank, at Franklin, Pennsylvania, about
a month since. Many of these papers were
almost wholly destroyed, in fact, in some
instances bills and other papers were com-
pletely consumed, nothing remaing but
small portions of the ashy fabric, which a
breath of air would have broken into minute
particles. Notwithstanding this, so deli-
cately and carefully have these vague
vestiges of what was once money been
manipulated by the experts that almost all
the notes and securities have been identified,
and those issued by the government will be
redeemed by Uncle Sam. The railroad and
other corporation bonds will doubtless be
redeemed by the companies issuing them.
Ex-Representative Gillfillan, son-in-law of 
Mr. Lamberton, the president of the bank,
and who has been in Washington for several
weeks watching the process of identification,
is greatly pleased with the result, and
speaks in high terms of the skill of General
Spinners’s experts.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OUR MOUNTAIN HOME.
				   —
	The following sweetly expressive lines, full of the
simplicity of nature, were written by the second wife
of an Elder in Israel, addressed to the first wife of
her husband.	

	In the old log cabin in the hills, Mary,
		We have spent many happy hours;
	Our children p'aying about the door,
		As bright as the summer flowers.
	And though we have sighed for social life,
		And the joy which friendship brings,
	We have found there are pleasures in duty’s path,
		Pleasures which leave no stings.

	Sometimes we have felt we were banished, Mary,
		And as days and weeks rolled by,
	We looked to the Eastern mountains,
		With longing, wishful eye.
	We sometimes feel as if shut out
		From friends and kindred dear;
	Yet this is but a moment’s thought—
		For duty calls us here.

	To teach and instruct our boys, Mary,
		To guide their footsteps aright;
	Will do much for us to accomplish,
		If we do it with all our might:
	How, then, can we ever be lonely,
		With this great mission to fill?
	By the Spirit of Truth directed,
		Teach them Jehovah’s will.

	How we may spend our future,
		Or where our lot be cast.
	We know not, may we ne’er regret
		The unforgotten past;
	And may memory turn with pleasure, Mary,
		To the lonely days we spent,
	In the old log cabin away in the hills, 
		On "every-day duties” intent.
										E. A. B.
April 16th, 1866.


R﻿ELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
			    —
	By especial invitation, sisters Precendia
L. Kimball, Sarah M. Kimball and Zina D.
Young attended the Annual meeting of the
Relief Society of West Jordan, held in the
school-house on the 14th of March. There
was a full attendance of the sisters and
a goodly number of the brethren present.
The singing by a juvenile choir, trained and
led by the President, Sister Pixton, was ex-
cellent. It was a delight to see the officiat-
ing of Sister Pixton, in her presidency
—acting, as she herself expressed it, as a
“Shepherdess” over the flock entrusted to
her care. As such she trains the choir,
watches, over the young, and comforts the
poor, the aged, and afllicted all around her.
Indeed, her example is worthy of commen--
dation to all. The Society numbers forty-
eight members. The sisters had donated
and prepared a number of articles for a Fair
which certainly was most creditable to
them. These articles were disposed of to the
amount of $43:65, to be appropriated to the
building of a house for the Society. Besides
this, there was considerable donated by the
brethren, with the promise of liberal assist-
ance in future. Much valuable instruction
was given by the sisters from the city as
well as the brethren and sisters of the
Ward. Sister S. M. Kimball suggested and
advocated the formation of a Physiological
class, for the benefit of the community in
general in that locality. This suggestion
met with general approval and a resolution
to form a class was adopted. By the re-
quest of the President and Secretary of the
Society I have prepared, and forward this
report.
			PRECENDIA L. KIMBALL.
Salt Lake City, March 20th, 1873.

	Meeting of the Relief Society, 16th Ward,
held in the new school house on the 6th of
March, 1873. Bishop Kesler and Counselor
Riser were present and addressed the sisters,
commending them for their faithfulness,
and tendering to them the use of a room
[new column]
in the new house for their meetings, which
was most gratefully received by the Society.
	PRECENDIA L. KIMBALL, Secretary.

	Sister Melissa Reynolds writes from Heber
City, Wasatch County:—“There is a unity
of feeling among the faithful sisters here,
and improvement in grace and the know-
ledg of the truth is the general aim. And
our sincere desires are that we may be
instrumental in achieving much good in
our day.”
	Accompanying this pleasant report, comes
a list of subscriptions, which is a positive
proof that the EXPONENT is acceptable in
the Society, and corroborative of the senti-
ments expressed.

	From Paris, Oneida Co., Idaho Territory
comes the following, written April 10th,
1873: The annual meeting of the Relief
Society of Paris, was held in the Second
Ward School House, last Thursday at 2
o’clock p. m., and as our sisters in Utah,
have not heard much from those who live In
this northern country, I take pleasure in
writing to the EXPONENT concerning our
condition and feelings. Our meeting was
not so well attended by members, the roads
being very bad, as it otherwise would have
been; but we had the company of President
C. C. Rich, and Bishops Budge and Horne.
The meeting being called to order by our
respected President, sister Julia Lindsay,
Bishop Budge engaged in prayer, after
which the Secretary read a financial state-
ment of last year’s business, which showed
that the Society had collected two hundred
and eighty-three dollars and forty-four
cents and spent in assisting the poor, one
hundred and fifty dollars and seventy-nine
cents, leaving a balance in the Treasury of
one hundred and forty-two dollars and sixty-
five cents. This was considered very satis-
factory, and the sisters felt thankful, that
they had been able to help the needy so
much. President Rich, being invited, occu-
pied some time in giving instructions in
his usual kind and fatherly manner, impart-
ing much encouragement to the sisters.
He expressed great confidence in the
perpetual success of the Society, if the
members would continue to cultivate the
spirit of union. Bishop Budge followed
with suitable remarks, and advised care and
instruction by mothers to the children, thus
laying the foundation for improved lives.
President Rich asked the members if they
were still willing to sustain their President,
Mrs. J. Lindsay, and her Counselors, Mrs.
Caroline Kimball and Mrs. Elizabeth Col-
lins in their callings, and received a hearty
response in the affirmative, Sister Nancy
Rich was appointed Treasurer in place of
sister Stucki, whom circumstances prevented
from continuing in that office, which she
had faithfully filled. During the meeting
an excellent spirit prevailed, and the
Teachers reported a very good feeling in
the settlement towards the Society. It was
arranged to have a Society Social Party,
which came off last night, and was a com-
plete success,—only, so great was the general
confidence that it would be a good one, that
the hall was rather crowded. The best of
feelings prevailed, however, and the Com-
mittee, sisters Mary Oakey and Emeline
Rich were highly complimented for the
neatness and convenience of every thing.
I must not forget to say that we were
advised to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT which we intend doing.
	I remain your sister in the Gospel,
					    ALICE MARGETTS.

	Extracts from minutes of the 55th meet-
[new column]
ing of the Senior and Junior Co-operative
Retrenchment Association of Salt Lake
City, held April 12th 1873, in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms. Counselor Mrs.
Zina D. Young, presiding in the absence of
President Mrs. Mary L Horne, suggested
that as there was no particular subject to be
that day considered, the meeting be one for
testimony, and that each one speak as she
might be led by the Holy Spirit.
	Counselor Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball did not
wish to feel, on such an occasion that she
had nothing to say; it was very important
that all weigh themselves occasionally
And see if they really had faith in God
and were worthy of a place in His Kingdom.
Women and girls should be instructed in
branches of learning appropriate for them to
put to use, that they might assist in sus-
taining themselves. There was nothing
improper, unlady like or undignified in a
woman’s taking charge of a post office, or
any such light business; but it was right
and proper for women to qualify themselves
for such occupations which were more suit-
able for them than the heavy washing and
other kinds of work which some of them do
now, and which should be performed by
men.
	Mrs. Harriet C. Young and several other
sisters bore impressive testimonies to the
truth and validity of the Latter-day work.
Counselor Mrs. Elizabeth Howard said it
was a great comfort to her to have the con-
fidence of her sisters; that they should be
careful and not do anything to shake the
confidence of those they loved; exhorted
her sisters to keep the word of wisdom;
their daughters should be taught to make
themselves useful and to be self sustaining.
	Counselors Mrs. Phoebe Woodruff and B.
W. Smith, and sisters Hampton, P. L. Kim-
ball and others made suitable remarks,
giving much valuable instruction and ask-
ing blessings to rest upon Israel.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks to meet
at the same place at 2 o’clock, p. m. Sing-
ing—benediction by Mrs. Eleanor Pratt.
	M. A. JENKINS, Secretary.

	Farmington, Davis County, under date of
April 17th, sends the following:
	In reading the EXPONENT I see reports
from Relief Societies in other settlements,
and feel that I have been neglectful in not
reporting how we prosper as a Society in
Farmington  I think I can safely say that
we are improving; for although our regular
meetings, which we hold monthly, are not
so well attended as they should be, yet from
the reports given by the Teachers, after
visiting their districts, the sisters generally
feel well in their religion, and are willing,
when called upon, to donate what they can
for charitable purposes. It is only very
lately, that, by the suggestion of our Presi-
dent, Mrs. S. J. Holmes, the Society donated
seventy-five dollars for the Temple, and
received a receipt for that amount, besides
helping our Bishop in other public matters.
But we think it a duty as well as a pleasure
to assist him when we can. We meet to
work every two weeks; and, from what I
can learn, are about like other Societies in
general. We have a faithful President and
Counselors to take the lead. I have
lived in Farmington twenty-two years and
do not think there is a community where
the ladies are more willing to assist the sick,
and administer to their wants than in this
place; which I think is something in our
favor; for where and when is the true friend
needed more than in times of sickness and
distress? I prize your paper very much
and hope your subscribers will increase and


all who have a desire to, may be, able to
purchase it. 
			Yours Respectfully,
				A. S. Rogers, Secretary. 

	This comes from Wallsburg, Wasatch
County:
	Wallsburg is a small place containing
only about forty-five families; consequently
our means are limited; but the Relief
Society has always been able to meet the
call for charity and have a surplus on hand.
We hold meeting once a month, and all feel
well towards the cause engaged in.
			Sarah Glenn, Secretary.

	We receive the following from Meadow
Creek, Millard County: At a meeting held
by our Relief Society, March 8th, 1873, the
word “Female” was dispensed with, accord-
ing to suggestion. We are not a wealthy
Society, but with the help of the Lord we
intend to improve in all good as the time
advances. The Society has been organ-
ized three years. We have not many poor
among us; are thankful that we have a
kind and faithful President, and feel to
sustain her with our faith and prayers, and
with our hands also.
				Martha Adams, President. 
	Selina Adams Secretary.

		Salt Lake City, April 23rd, 1873.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	President B. Young, in some of his re-
marks during Conference advocated the
cause of woman most kindly and wisely, for
which the young ladies of the 8th Ward
Retrenchment Association return him a vote
of thanks, and wish him to live long to see
them prosper under his judicious guidance.
	Louisa C. Spencer, President.
	Sarah Jane Chamberlain, Counselor.
	Anne Loss, Secretary pro. tem.

	The annual meeting of the Relief Society
of Harrisville, Weber County, is reported as
follows: Our annual meeting, which, to
agree with former dates, should have been
held some weeks before, but was postponed
on account of the prevalence of the measels
in the settlement, we held on the 20th of
April.. It was well attended by the sisters
and a goodly number of the brethren who
gave much good instruction. The financial
report, presented by the Treasurer, Mrs.
Louisa Harris, showed that in the past year
there had been given into the Society $61:60,
$18:10 having been disbursed, there was
remaining in the treasury, in goods $19:20,
and in cash $24:30.
		Mrs. Melissa Shirtliff, President.
	Mrs. Mary Taylor, Secretary.

	The sisters write from Gunnison, April
23rd, 1873: We have had a Relief Society
in this place since September 7th, 1867.
On the 17th of May, 1868, we were reorgan-
ized as a Society, according to the pattern
set by sister E. R. Snow. Although our
“mites” put together, may not amount to
more than “a drop in the bucket,” compara-
tively, yet, we feel that we are doing our
best. Our Treasury has disbursed, to the
Emigration Fund, the Temple, the poor at
home, and other investments, about $500.
	Knowing, that with our means, our power
to do good will increase, and that “He that
giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord,” we
cheerfully join, heart and hand with our
sister Societies, in the grand object for
which we were organized. The Exponent
is a valuable companion in our Semi-monthly
sewing meetings. In our last meeting we
agreed to omit the word “Female” from the
[new column]
name of ouir Society.   We feel there is an
important work before us, destined to make
a link in the chain of the great reformatory,
plan in these Latter-days.
			  Lydia Horne, President.
	Helena Madsen, Secretary.

	On Saturday, the 26th of April, another
interesting testimony meeting was held by
the Co-operative Retrenchment Association
of this city, at their usual place of meeting.
Among the speakers were Counselors Airs.
Sarah M. Kimball, Mrs. Zina D. Young,
Mrs. Phoebe Woodruff; and sisters Willmarth
East, Pixton from South Cottonwood, Mag-
jgie C. Shipp, and Sarah Wheeler from the
Sugar House Ward.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿WOMAN’S VOICE.
			       —
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	Having read the beautiful testimonies of
many of my sisters in the Gospel, that have
appeared from time to time in your paper,
I feel that I, too, should not neglect to add
my own to the list. It is more than twenty-
six years since I first became associated
with the Saints of God.   I crossed the Plains
in the first company of “Hand-carts; I
realized the blessings promised to those who
would start relying onl Israel’s God for
strength and protection, and I can truly say,
that in all, the varied and trying scenes I
have had to pass through, I have never been
forsaken by my Heavenly Father; but
through all I have enjoyed that peace of
mind which none but the Saints of God can
know. I feel very glad that there is a
channel through which woman can speak her
true feelings, for I consider that however
much the women of Utah may be pitied or
ridiculed by their sisters in the outside
world, there are thousands who would be
glad to occupy the position we hold, for are
we not the respected, and honored wives of 
heaven’s true nobility? Do not our chil-
dren have the privilege of acknowledging
their fathers, and fathers their children,
honorably sustaining them? I feel thankful
that God in his mercy has revealed a princple
by which our sons and daughters can be
reared in virtue, and free from the contam-
inating evils of celibacy. “Better, far
better,” our position to-day, as the wives of
polygamists, than that of millions of women
in the world, who are daily the victims of
men who have a “holy horror” of polygamy,
but yet hesitate not to ruin the fair charac-
ter of women, and then with scorn, trample
her under their feet—simply because she
trusted in their boasted honor! How long
shall the strong triumph over the weak?
Surely, we have cause to pray that the time
will soon come when righteousness shall
cover the earth as the waters cover the
mighty deep, and the voice of the oppressed
be no more heard in sorrow and lamenta-
tions.
	praying God to hasten the time of their
redemption.
	I remain your sister in the Covenant of
peace,					Mrs.	 A. Randal.
	Spanish Fork, April 22nd, 1873.


﻿The fact of one Federal Judge in Utah
selling out his position and getting the
purchaser appointed in his place, while the
latter refused to pay the purchase money,
is creating considerable comment throughout
the country. Evidently the character of
the men who have often been appointed to
such important positions in the Territories,
and notably in Utah, is not yet knonw to
the country. If it were, there would be less
sympathy with many of their lawless and
tyrannous acts.


﻿WHAT-NOT. 
				—
	Nothing is so reasonable and cheap as 
good manners.
	A LOUISIANA operator makes soap out of 
cotton seed. 
	LOUISVILLE policemen are provided with
wheelbarrows.	
	TUNEFUL lyre—a music teacher who does
not keep his engagements.
	A CONNECTICUT horse has acquired the
habit of chewing tobacco. Poor horse!
	A DETROIT youth has no forehead, the
hair growing down close to the eyes. Poor 
boy!	
	A CROSS-eyed man in Newberg has
gathered around him seven cross-eyed
servants.
	THE stocking manufacturers of Newark
N. J., say that the largest sizes are shipped
to Chicago.
	A YOUNG lawyer in North Carolina was 
recently paid a pound of butter for legal 
services.
	THACKERY says that a critic is a Solo-
mon that sits in judgment before us and
chops up our children.		
	A LOUISVILLE man is so opposed to	
capital punishment that he can’t even
tolerate paper hanging. 
	If you should be asked when a cat is like a
teapot, you might reply, “When you’re
teasin’ it.”
	A MAN out West says he moved so many 
times during one year that when ever a 
covered wagon stopped at the gate his 
chickens would fall on their backs and hold 
up their feet, in order to be tied and thrown
in.
	A GENTLEMAN was complimenting a pretty	
young lady in the presence of his wife. "It 
is lucky I did not meet Miss Hopkins before 
I married you my dear.” “Well, yes, it is
extremely lucky—for her,” was the dry
rejoinder.
	WHAT a glorious world this would be, if 
all its inhabitants could say, with Shake-
speare’s shepherd: “Sir, I am a true laborer!  
I earn what I wear; I owe no man hate,
envy no man’s happiness, glad of other
men’s good: content with my farm.” 
	MRS. Moore, an industrious woman of
Topeka, Kansas, earned money enough to
support a good-for-nothing husband and
bring a niece to live with them. The
husband eloped with the niece and she is
now nicely rid of both.
	“Mother,” said a little girl, who was
making her doll an apron, “I believe I will
be a dutchess when I grow up.” How do
you expect to be a Dutchess, my daughter?” 
“Why, by marrying a Duthman, to be
sure,” replied the girl.
	SINCE their only schoolma’am eloped
from Green Bay, Wis., the school directors
advertise for a teacher that is over forty
years of age, has had the small-pox, with
poor teeth, and a glass eye, and wooden leg,
if possible. Any girl answering these re-
commendations can secure a permanent
job by applying early.
	A LITTLE boy was playing with a couple
of five cent pieces, the other evening, which
a friend had given him, and putting his
finger on one of them, said, “This one I am
going to give to the heathen.” He kept on
playing till at last one of the pieces rolled
away, and he could not find it.   “Which
one have you lost?” asked the friend.
“The one I was going to give to the hea-
then,” replied the cherub.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	LOUISE L. GREENE, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City. Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
linos of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					  Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
									Salt	Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, MAY 1, 1873.


﻿ 	SPLINTERS.
				     —	
	George Francis Train protested against
the attempt to place him in better quarters
than those he previously occupied in the
Tombs......It is estimated by eminent phy-
sicians that nearly one-third of the luxuries,
under the name of “ice cream,” manufac-
tured in France, is composed of poisonous
substances......“Elm Orlou” thinks it un-
generous for “the fellow” to be blamed with
every silly thing said that every one else is
ashamed of, by every bodys saying “as the
fellow said.”......Edward Eggleston, once
“Reverend Divine,” writes novels now......
Church singing in Santo Domingo, a writer
pronounces good in no way but the zest
with which it is participated in......Eighty-
five young doctors lately graduated at Ann
Arbor, Michigan; and twelve of them were
women......Maria Hawley, of the “Balance,”
Chicago, thinks though it is more unlawful
it is not more unrighteous for robbers to
take wealth at midnight, than for wealthy
people to take the labor of others at unfair
prices, which is a good and just thought......
Two lady deacons officiate in the Clinton
Avenue Congressional Church, Brooklyn......
A machine for making French lace, contain-
ing one hundred bobbins, has been invented
by a lady at Cedar Falls, Iowa......Ladies are
to be admitted to the Boston University
upon the same condition as gentlemen......
Grace Greenwood lectures on “In-doors.”....
A Boston mother complains of a lecturer
who talks only to the boys, while her poor
children, being girls, are not addressed......
Charlotte A. Barber soon begins a lecture
tour in Michigan......A lady writer says
“sin is so convenient, man wants to keep it;”
it is a great pity that once in a while, woman
interferes with his wants......The Board of
Education in Yorkshire, England, has as
coadjutors, a Lady’s Honorary Council, to
aid, by practical work and suggestion, the
better education of women.......General J.
W. S. Browne, one of the founders of the
Cincinnati “Commercial,” lately died at
Memphis......A petition for the repeal of
the social evil-law of St Louis, has been
presented to the Legislature of Missouri, and
is reported to have been signed by over
7,000 women......The Arkansas House of
Representatives has passed a bill, fixing the
pay of teachers at the same amount, without
regard to sex......Columbia, Maine, has F. C. &
C. H. Nash, husband and wife, for a law firm.....
The Bloomfield, Missouri “Republican,”
is to be managed hereafter by a woman,
Mrs. Sarah E. White......It is announced
that Joaquin Miller is writing “By the Sun-
down Seas.”......There is to be a “Woman’s
Journal,” published in Washington......Miss
Smiley, the preacher, is said to be a small
woman with wonderfully beautiful, expres-
sive eyes......The Emperor William of Ger-
many has conferred the Cross of Honor upon
Mary Von Olnhousen, of Lexington, as a
recognition of her services as nurse in the
German hospitals during the war with
France......April storms, this year, in Ne-
braska, were the most severe ever witnessed
there at any season of the year......Woman
Suffragists are rapidly increasing; many
who cared nothing about it a year ago begin
to clamor loudly.....Liquor laws are exten-
sively talked of; may the right ones be
rigidly enforced......Billerica, Massachusetts,
was honored the other Sunday by having
the minister's daughter to conduct the
church services, her father being unable to
attend......Beecher says it should not only
be the privilege of every woman to vote
but her duty as well......Royalston, Massa-
chusetts, Superintendent of Common Schools
[new column]
is a woman......The Pope praises the pro-
tection that Catholics enjoy in the Burmese
Empire......A young lady in Ohio recently
fell dead while on her way to be baptised.
......A half dozen new papers have lately been
started in Paraguay......The Duchess of In-
verness, wife of the late Duke of Sussex and
aunt to Queen Victoria, is pronounced in a
serious state......A rascal in Lowell, Massa-
chusetts, knocked a gentleman in the head
with a bludgeon the other night, and rob-
bed him of thirty-five dollars; the gentle-
man proved to be his father......Miss Ann
Wallace, a lineal descendant of Sir William
Wallace, recently died at Glasgow, at the
age of one hundred and three years......
It is again reported that Maria Alexand-
rovna, only daughter of the Czar, is to
marry the Duke of Edinburg......Turkish
Journals state that Halim Pacha, uncle of
the Egyptian Khedive, has been appointed
Ambassador at St. Petersburg......A Mrs.
Hutchins, in Maine, is eighty-seven years
old, has forty-seven grand-children and has
never yet seen a steamboat or a railroad car.
......A Boston bakery is said to have been
set on fire by some piping-hot Graham
crackers......A gentleman in the same city
keeps the small-pox hospital plentifully
supplied with flowers; this should be the
work of a gentle woman......The people in
a Florida town don’t like the arrangements
of keeping pigs in the cellar beneath the
church, because they sqeal during service.
......A young lady in Minneapolis lately
fell so desperately in love that, her affec-
tions being unrequited, it dethroned her
reason and drove her to the insane asylum.
......A woman in Fairfield County, Conn.,
only thirty-two years of age, has three
grand-children.


﻿WOMAN ON WOMAN’S NEEDS.
				—
	Miss Emily Faithful, before her departure
from New York on her return voyage to Eng-
land, delivered a farewell lecture in Steinway
Hall, of that city, which treated largely on the
Woman Question, and contained many pointed
truths and touching facts. The following ex-
tract we take from a report of her lecture in
the New York Tribune, of April 4th, which will
convey the drift of her position:
	In England there are now nearly three
million women dependent on their own exer-
tions. To tell such as these that woman’s
proper sphere is home is mockery, for they are
forced from their homes to get bread. Though
many a barrier to woman's livelihood has been
broken down, there are still terrible difficulties
in finding employment for women. Specially
onerous is the effort in the case of those of
fallen fortunes, members of genteel classes.
To relieve such Miss Faithful had founded a
“Fund for Destitute Gentlewomen,” to which
she would devote the proceeds of the lecture.
True it is that young men now find it hard
to get suitable work; they often have to go
West. But thereis no an alogy among them to
the wholesale yearly destruction of consciences,
bodies and souls among women—destruction
too often brought about by destitution. How
can tender-hearted people fold their hands
[new column]
while so many of their sisters are driven to the
gates of hell by want of bread? Statements
are published that capable women, willing to
work, can get employment at good wages.
Good, steady, skilled labor is wanted in just
those departments where women have gained
position. The unremitting, earnest applica-
tion required to acquire skill in these depart
ments, is hard for women to go through. In
them love of work for its own sake is no more
inherent than in men. Moreover, women are
always looking for the possible emancipator.
Men have nothing but their work to look to for
dependence. The greatest evil of all is the
lack of the right early training, and for this,
the family, the parents, society in general,
must be impeached. Society casts a stigma on
women who earn their own livelihood, and
parents pray that their daughters may never
be brought so low. As to education; a girl’s
training stops just where the main part of a
boy’s begins. Men are allowed full opportunity
to devote themselves to their chosen work,
and are not diverted by social demands. Wo-
men are at the beck and call of everybody, as it
were, and have so many society duties, so many
distracting little trifles to attend to, that the
wonder is not that there has not been a female
Shakespeare, Raphael, Newton, but that women
have done so much.
	The problem, what we shall do with our
redundent women in England, is answered by
some philosophers by proposing emigration
and marriage. But emigration has already
been tried, and Scotch, English, and Irish
have been sent to Australia and America in large
numbers without much diminishing the gravity
of the problem; while as for marriage there
is yet to be found the woman to say “No” when
the right man appears. As long as the num-
ber of women in Great Britain exceeds that of
the number of men by six per cent., marriage
will not wholly do away with the difficulty
unless Mormonism is tried. True marriage is
the crown and glory of a woman's life; but it
must be founded on love, and not on the desire
of a home or of support, while nothing can be
more deplorable, debasing, and corrupting than
the loveless marriages brought about in our
upper society by a craving ambition and a long-
ing for a good settlement. Loveless marriages
and a different standard of morality for men
and women are the curses of modern society.
The dignity of labor is not properly appreciated.
We agree that work is honorable in a man,
but are not yet convinced that idleness is dis-
honorable in a woman. A contempt for work
is at the bottom of the mind of a fashionable
young lady. Frivolity is so general that it is
surprising that so much good survives in spite
of neglect. So long as we frown down aud
sneer at the efforts to enlarge woman’s sphere,
we are encouraging frivolity and idleness in
women. We hear the interests and rights of
women spoken of as if these could be separated
from those of man, as if men and women were
creatures of a different kind. A most common
and mischievous error is that which would
make woman the mere shadow and attendant
of her lord, as if a shadow could be a true
helpmeet, We have long heard the man’s
sphere is the world; woman’s is home. But
women have a part in the world, while men
are not ciphers in the home circle.
	This is the language of a true woman; of one
who comprehends that woman has a nature of
her own, distinct of itself, but one which is
never wholly satisfied unless she is fulfilling
her designed mission on earth, by becoming a
loved and honored wife and occupying that
position wherein the responsibilities of mater-
nity are hers. She should have the right to
work, and receive fair pay for it; she should
enjoy representation with taxation; she should
be allowed to fill every honorable position in
society for which she has capacity; but she
should not have her womanly feelings crushed
out, nor her woman's heart deadened; for above
all she should enjoy the right to a home and a
husband, to have a voice in the choiceof the man
with whom she unites her destinies, and fill
the noblest, holiest and most exalted position
occupied by humanity on the earth—that of
moulding pliant, tender beings for lofty pur-
poses in time and an exalted immortality here-
after. 
	In England, Miss Faithful says, are three


millions of women dependent on their own ex-
ertions. They have no husbands, or perhaps
worse than none—men who degrade their
manhood, cease to be beings whom woman
can love or respect; and instead of being
woman’s protectors, guides and supporters,
become burthens upon the weaker sex and a
disgrace to humanity. Even suppose these
three millions had work, and suppose all the
women in this and every other country who
are dependent upon their own exertions were
also supplied with work and the means to live,
how are the holy upwellings of woman’s wifely
and motherly nature to be met, by any
recognized means palatable to the world of
Christendom? We put the query in all sin-
cerity, as forming a part of a whole as known
as the “Woman Question;” and add, after
years of acquaintance with that system—
“Mormonism,”—to which Miss Faithful refers,
that there will be found more in her remark
regarding it, thus apparently dropped at ran-
dom, than society outside of Utah is to-day
willing to recognize.
	The subject is worth recurring to again.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DAILY BATHING.
				  —
	With many intelligent women, among the
Latter-day Saints, the thought seems to pre-
vail that if the drinking of tea and coffee, and
the extravagant use of meats are dispensed
with, the Word of Wisdom is faithfully kept
in every particular.
	Yet, it is plainly apparent to all who will
take time to reflect upon the subject, that these
little matters, though it is very essential that
they be carefully observed, constitute but a
small portion of what may be justly considered
words of wisdom; living according to which,
cannot fail to produce longevity, health, and
consequent happiness and usefulness.
	Not the least or the last consideration which
should be entertained, pertains to timely, and
proper bathing. If mothers wish their children
to be healthy, active and intellectual, this duty
must not be neglected, either for themselves
or their little ones. It is often the case that
women feel they have not time to take the
morning bath, so necessary to produce for them
lively, energetic thoughts and feelings, and so
generative of clear judgment, upon which all
the systematic arrangements of the household
depend. But they will find it so great an ad-
vantage, if they but adopt the habit, that, very
soon it will be realized that time is gained
rather than lost by the operation.
	Another hindrance with many, is, that small
houses and large families are apt to afford no
suitable place for bathing; and although this
cannot always be avoided, It should not alto-
gether prohibit any woman, especially if she
be delicate in health, from bathing, or at least,
sponging the body every day. A screen may
be prepared in one corner of any room, for the
purpose; and compared with the benefits, to be
derived, the trouble will be nothing. From,
the effects of this treatment, very delicate
women have become comparatively robust and
healthy.


HOME AFFAIRS. 
				   —
	A Special Conference will convene in the
New Tabernacle, in this city, on Saturday 3rd
inst.
	ANOTHER INTERESTING letter from Miss
Eliza R. Snow will be found in the present
number of the EXPONENT.
	THE NEXT issue of the EXPONENT closes its
first year. Need we again request an early
sending of clubs for the second volume?
[new column]
	A LADY who has been in attendance at the
Third District Court held in this city, for some
weeks past, pronounces it a “first-rate medical
school,”' A  medical case has been on trial.
	WE ARE requested to say that the name of
the President of the First Ward Relief Society of
Spanish Fork, is Catharine A. Wilkins, instead
of Williams as it appears in a report of our last
issue.
	A CONDUCTOR on one of the street cars in this
city made himself notable and notorious in the
estimation of some ladies, a short time since,
by severely kicking and cuffing an urchin
who, he said, was trying to steal a ride. The
ladies ask if a man should reprove a child for a
wrong action by himself committing one of
greater magnitude?
	PARENTS WHO are desirous of seeing their
children grow in wisdom, and grace as they ad-
vance in years, cannot be too particular now-a-
days in relation to the associations which they
keep, and the influences under which they are
liable to be placed; as has been repeatedly
evinced of late, by shameful proceedings which
have occurred in the streets of this city.
	IMPROVEMENTS IN various forms are being
rapidly carried on in different parts of this city,
which, from present indications, will soon be
extensively lighted by gas. Gardening and a
general trimming up of things out of doors, has
been going on for some time, and Salt Lake
City seems to be prepared, with the rest of the
world, to welcome once more the, fresh, sweet
face of May.
	NOTWITHSTANDING ALL the admonitions
given to teamsters to secure their horses before
leaving them standing in the streets, daily
papers are continually chronicling accidents
occasioned by teams being left carelessly, and
taking fright and running away; which,
though not generally of a serious nature, should
be sufficient warning to prevent so much heed-
lessness on the part of those having them in
charge.
	EVEN HERE, in our once quiet Utah, it
is difficult now-a-days to distinguish the
rogue from the gentleman. A lady of this
city rode in the cars to Ogden, a short
time since, opposite a respectable appearing
individual, not having the slightest suspicion
that he was other than he seemed. The next
day, however, while returning home, the same
man was seated directly in front of her, being
brought to the city in charge of an officer by
whom he had been arrested in Ogden, as a gov-
ernment defaulter from Idaho.
	LITTLE BOYS being urged into a fight, by
those who consider themselves men; and big
boys running over little ones with wheelbar-
rows, and rolling them into ditches, for the fun
of hearing them cry, and seeing them scramble
out; and other similar practices, are not such 
grand entertainments for persons who care
anything about morality or good behavior,
either in children or adults, as they seem to be
for some of the rude, ill-bred persons who now
constitute a portion of the community in dif-
ferent parts of the Territory.
	THE MANY terrible calamities occurring from
railroad accidents, occasioned frequently by
recklessness, of which, news comes from all parts
of the country, should make the people of Utah
appreciative of the careful and judicious man-
ner in which the management of the railroads
belonging to them is carried on by the gentle-
manly, polite and obliging Superintendents,
Agents and Condutors of these roads. Although
some few inconveniences are now to be met
with in going from this city to Logan in the cars,
even these are, comparatively, very slight, tak-
ing into consideration the short time the Utah
[new column]
Northern cars have been running. Any lady
who has a proper idea of taking care of herself,
may feel perfectly at home and at ease while
traveling by rail on either the Utah Southern,
Utah Central or Utah Northern railway.


THE SEX.
				—
	Mrs. Merriman Loyson, in addition to
her $75,000 and accomplishments, is a
painter and sculptor.
	Queen Isabella weighs about two hun-
dred pounds, and is the jolliest old ex-Queen
who ever saved her head.
	A Young Irish girl in Jacksonville, Ill.,
has refused $100 for her hair. It reaches
the floor when she stands erect.
	Mrs. Anna A. Pomeroy, former wife of
“Brick” Pomeroy, of La Crosse, has married
James H. Reed, of Fulton, Illinois.
	Miss Julia Seeley, daughter of the old
postmaster, has been nominated by the
President for postmaster, at Great Barring-
ton.
	The widow of the late Secretary Stanton
is residing at German town, near Philadel-
phia and is said to be in rapidly declining
health.
	Lady Otway, widow of the late colonel of
the Eighty-fourth British regiment, who
died recently, was a lineal descendant of
Edward III.
	A BRILLIANT belle may make a loving
wife, but you will be far more apt to find
the virtues of a perfect woman in retiring
modesty.
	Report of a Kentucky wedding—“The
bride wasn’t remarkably handsome, but her
father threw in seven mules, and the hus-
band was satisfied.”
	Many old women in New Hampshire
wear strings of beans around their necks
to keep off the rheumatism, and the charm
is said to work splendidly.
	Mary Warren, of Madison, Wisconsin,
has eight fingers on each hand. May the
Lord pity her husband when she has one,
when she begins to gridiron his face. 
	The ocean cable announces the death of
Countess Guiccioli, an Italian woman of
world-wide notoriety as the mistress of
Byron. She died at Rome.
	Miss Emily L. Wyman has returned from
her Art pilgrimage in Europe bringing,
among her treasures, exquisite copies of
several of Turner’s masterpieces executed
by herself.
	Mrs. Alice C. Clymor, the favorite niece
and principal, legatee of the Carey sisters;
died, recently at Jacksonville, Florida. She
was one of the last surviving members of
the family.
	A La Crosse, Wis., girl has been turned
out of house and home for rubbing her
cheeks against her sister’s husband’s beard
when she wished to get up a healthful glow
for a ball.
	A woman in destitute circumstances in
Indiana, cut off her hair, the other day,
and sold it to a charitable lady, who gave
her seventy-seven cents for it to buy food
for her children.
	The lady teachers of the Detroit public
school have issued an admirably written
address to the tax-payers of that city, ask-
ing for an increase of their salaries, which
are now shamefully inadequate. 
	The Art Schools of the National Acad-
emy admit pupils without regard to sex or
color, granting every student access to all
its advantages. The excellence of these
schools is of a very high order.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WORLD IS PROGRESSING.
					      ——
	This poem, which was written for, and appeared
in the twenty-first number of, the EXPONENT, April
1st, contained there several typographical errors,
which so completely changed the sense that we
deem it due to the talented author to republish it,	corrected.
The world is progressing! the sunlight of science
	With new luster sparkles to-day,
And keen, searching intellect wins an alliance
	With secrets long hidden away;
Bright genius unfolds new and great combinations
	Of power to bless and serve man;
While muses and graces forsake not their stations
	Adorning the structure so grand.

The world is progressing! O manhood arouse thee!
	Nor in the swift race be outrun;
The great wheels of progress will never turn back-
		ward,
	So roll them right bravely, each one—
In the proud halls of state, at the hearthstone so
	lowly,
	Let your voice for improvement be heard,
Strengthen virtue and honor, disdain things unholy
	And bid thought soar as free as a bird.

The world is progressing! O womanhood, waken
	And join in the jubilant strain!
The fetters which bound thee now surely are break-
	  ing.
	And never shall gall thee again.
No more in the dust shall thy meek head be trodden;
	No more shall injustice o’erwhelm;
Thou shall rise above ignorance, fashion and folly
	And reign as a queen in thy realm.

  The world is progressing! old fabrics of error
	Fall, moldr'ed and crumbling to earth;
While structures, far statelier, nobler and fairer,
	Rise pillared with power and worth.
Old Prejudice writhes 'neath the blows that are
	dealt her,
And for power, wild strugg'ling she keeps;
But her terrible sway shall forever be broken—
	Humanity no longer sleeps.

The world is progressing! yet all is not stainless,
	Grim evils yet flourish abroad—
False teaching, false swearing, and falsehearted states-
		men.
	Black intrigue, and the blackest of fraud.
But the world is progressing! thank God, we’re pro-
		gressing!
	The day of dull torpor is past;
Brave hearts and strong hands are their ardor ex-
	  pressing;	
	The millions are waking at last!
								LU DALTON.
   BEAVER.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	
	What to do in case of accident.—
Prof. Wilder of Cornell University, gives
the following short rules for acting in case
of accident, which it will be found useful to
preserve or remember:—If choked, get
upon all fours and cough.—If in water, float
on the back, with the nose projecting.—For
apoplexy, raise the head and body; for faint-
ing, lay the person flat.—If any artery is
cut, compress above the wound; if a vein is
cut, compress below.—For slight burns, dip
the part instantly in cold water; if the skin
is destroyed, cover with varnish.—Remove
wax from the ear by tepid water; never
put a hard instrument into the ear.—In
case of poisoning, excite vomiting by tick-
ling the throat or by warm water and
mustard.—For dust in the eyes, avoid rub-
bing; dash water into them; remove cinders,
etc., with the round point of a lead pencil.—
For acid poisons, give alkalis, for alkaline
poisons, give acids—white of egg is good in
most cases; in case of opium poisoning give
strong coffee and keep moving.—Smother
a fire with carpets, etc water will often
spread burning oil, and increase danger.
Before passing through smoke, take a full
breath and then stoop low; but if carbonic
acid gas is suspected, walk erect,—Suck
poisoned wounds, unless your mouth is sore;
enlarge the wound, or, better, cut out the
part without delay; hold the wounded part
as long as can be borne to a hot coal or end
of a cigar
	The Pomegranate.—It is perhaps not
generally known that this beautiful, rich
and wholesome fruit will keep well through
the winter. Let it be wrapped and packed
away in a box or laid among clothes in a
chest and it will keep sound until spring—
try it.
	Farmer’s Fruit Cake.—One cup of sour
dried apples, soaked over night and chop-
ped fine; simmer two hours in a cup of
sugar; one-third of a cup of butter; one-half
cup of sour milk; one teaspoonful soda; one
of cloves and nutmeg; two eggs; beat well
together; add the apples stirred up in a cup
of flour; add flour till quite stiff.
	Scent Powder.—A charming recipe for
scent powder, to be used for wardrobes,
boxes, etc., far finer than any mixture sold
at the shops, is the following:—Clove gilla,
sweet peas, mignonette, orris root, rose
leaves, and aromatic calamus each one
ounce, lavender-flowers, two ounces; rho-
dium wood, one-fourth of a dram. These
are to be mixed and reduced to a coarse
powder. This scent on clothes is as if all
fragrant flowers had been pressed in their
folds.
	Pudding.—One quart of milk. While
boiling stir in one pint of flour, after it is
sifted, six eggs, six tablespoonfuls of white
sugar, one spoonful of butter, the grated
peel and juice of two lemons. All the in-
gredients must be well beaten together
before they are stirred into the milk. Stir
one way without stopping for a minute or
two, take it off and turn into your pudding
dish. It is to be eaten cold, with sugar and
cream if you like.
	Make Strawberry Wine.—Nothing can
be more delicious; nothing can be more
healthful. In all cases of dyspepsia, or of
slow, nervous fevers, or of impure blood, or
of ill-regulated bilious apparatus, it will be
found a great palliative, and a powerful aid
to other remedies of a more decided charac-
ter. Three quarts of strawberries make
one quart of juice. Add three quarts of
water and three pounds of the best sugar.
Use a clean, sweet cask, leave the bung
out for fermentation. When the fermenta-
tion subsides close the cask tightly and the
wine is ready for use. Tightly stopped it
will keep ten years, if necessary, but in my
experience it has always been found too
attractive to be kept quite so long a time.—
“Shakespearian Almanac.”
	Cold Water Drinking.—Cold baths of
the skin are good, but it is doubtful if flood-
ing the stomach on going to bed and on
rising is not, on the whole, the most profit-
able form of cold bathing. Costiveness,
piles and indigestion are uniformly relieved
by this morning and evening stomach
douche. The quantity must be determined
by each one for himself. Two or three
swallow's will generally do to begin with,
but the quantity will soon grow to a tum-
blerful, and I have known persons to use
much larger quantities with marked benefit.
If wisely managed, every dyspeptic will
be greatly improved by this cold stomach
bath.—Ex.
	A Cheap and Delicious Soup.—Save
the liquor in which the nice leg of mutton
was boiled to-day. It would be wicked
to throw it away, for a large fraction of the
succulence and nutriveness of the meat is
in it. Remove the fat to-morrow, and then
put it over the fire. Add onions if desired,
carrots and turnips, sliced thin, and some
lime beans, sweet corn and slised potatoes,
with bits of celery; add in either case rice
or barley, a tablespoonful of them dry, to a
quart of liquor is a good rule.  Do this and
at a trifling expense you may have a tureen
of soup fit to set before a King.


﻿CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.
				Jerusalem, March 4, 1873.
Editor Woman's Exponent:—
	I wrote you last in Cairo, Egypt, from
whence we went to Suez, where we paid our
respects to the Red Sea of antique celebrity.
I walked up and down its low bank, admired
its beautiful, calm surface, as it lay in sweet
repose with wave unstirred; and reflected
deeply on the past of its interesting history.
	From Suez we went by rail back to Is-
maila, which we passed on our way from
Cairo to Suex. From Ismaila we went by
steamer on the great Suez Canal, one of the
modern “wonders of the world,” to Port
Said, a town built on artificial ground,
made of material taken from the bed of the
canal. On the evening of the 22nd of Febru-
ary, by the aid of boats we went on board
the Vesta, of the Austrian Lloyd line of
steamers, and early the next morning an-
chored off the coast of Jaffa, which we
reached in boats in safety, although this is
considered the most dangerous of seaports.
The Mediterranean washes the foundations
of the buildings.  We ascended a few steps
and entering a narrow, muddy street, were
met by a host of natives, clamoring for our
satchels in anticipation of a fee of “Back-
sheeh” for relieving us from carrying them.
Presently a smiling corpulent biped in tur-
ban and gown demanded our passports, at
the same time giving us a hint that he
would compromise his demand, for a fee; to
which our cashier readily assented, and
thereby also protected our baggage from
being overhauled at the Custom House.
	We walked directly to our encampment;
found our tents in readiness to receive us;
and were delighted with the many conve-
niences provided by Mr. Howard, agent of
Mr. Cook of London, under whose arrange-
ments we are traveling.
	Thus, under as clear a sunshine as had over
shone on Jaffa, and in as bright a morning
as ever dawned on the land of Palestine,
we commenced tent life, and, to render it
more impressive, it was Sunday morning.
	There is nothing attractive in the appear-
ance of the interior of this ancient town.
It is said to contain about five thousand
inhabitants. As we saw them in crowds
in the narrow, crooked streets, they are the
representatives of low life and degradation.
We walked a long, roundabout distance to
visit the “house of Simon the tanner,”
situated by the sea side, and were glad to
return to our tents in the suburbs, where we
breathed the pure fresh air. The surround-
ings of the city are pleasant and richly
decorated with groves of the lemon and
orange. With me, the reflection that we
really were in Palestine, the land rendered
dear to the Saints of God by some of the
most interesting associations of mortal life
—the history of the past in connection with
the anticipations of the future, which no
other people than Latter-day Saints can so
fully appreciate—was the all absorbing
thought.
	Early on Monday morning our camp
equipage, which consists of every thing
necessary for genteel boarding houses, was
packed and in monstrous bundles lashed to
the sides of donkeys, mules and horses; our
tents struck and packed; the laden animals
and their drivers started off; when we
mounted our horses and following our drag-
oman, went in the same direction leading to
Jerusalem.
	For a considerable distance after leaving
the city, the street on both sides, is lined
with the most luxuriant orange groves we
have seen, the limbs bending with the


weight of large clusters of the golden fruit,
and protected by hedges of cactus of an
enormous size.  We traveled till noon over
the beautiful plain of Sharon, and stopped
to lunch in the vicinity of Ramleh; where
the attendants who had our mid-day refresh-
ments in charge, consisting of light bread,
cold boiled mutton, chicken, a boiled egg
for each, an orange each, and bottles of
water, had preceded us, and opened our
lunch on mattresses provided for the purpose.
The majority of the attendants proceeded
ahead in time to pitch tents, put up for each
an iron bedstead, (which by the way is
rather a small pattern for President Smith,
but very comfortable for the rest) tables,
seats, etc., and get the camp stove and cook-
ing apparatus all into working order
preparatory to evening dinner served with
soups, meats, vegetables and pastries.
	The country through which our afternoon
ride led, is very uneven; some portions
rocky and barren.  We encamped for the
night on a lovely green, called the entrance
to the valley of Ajalon, conspicuous in the
history of Joshua.  Next day we rode
through the valley of Ajalon; up mountain
ridges, where we had delightful views of
the plains of Sharon and the Mediterranean
—the country is very picturesque, the road
zigzag, winding around and on the sides of
mountains—pass Kirjath Jearim, famous in
the history of David, lunch in the valley of
Elah and in the afternoon in view of the
Mount of Olives, which we leave at our left,
and arriving at the memorable city of the
ancient Jewish nation, the once favored of
the Most High, the site of the Jerusalem
from which the “Word of the Lord” shall yet
go forth, we found our tents in readiness
and entered them with hearts of thankful-
ness to God for His protecting care and
blessings in bringing us to this destination
in safety.
	But I must hasten to a close. The next
day, the 26th, we spent in and about Jerusa-
lem, visited the “Church of the Holy
Sepulchre;” had a fine view of the Garden
of Gethsemane; the next morning struck
tents, and spent three days in visiting the
Pools of Siloam, the Tomb of Ratchel, Beth-
lehem, the Dead Sea, Jordan river, Gilgal,
Jericho, Bethany, etc.,—have not time for
description.  On the evening of the 1st of
March returned to this city, visited the
Mount of Olives and the Mosque of Omar.
To-morrow we leave for Syria.
						Eliza R. Snow.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿MORAL TRAINING IN SCHOOLS.
		OPENING ADDRESS
By Superintendent R.L. Campbell, before the Utah
	Territorial Teachers’ Association, in the Deseret
	University, April 3, 1873.
	I take pleasure in congratulating the
Teachers and friends of education in Utah
on having the happy privilege of meeting
together, under such favorable auspices.
Can we contemplate a meeting the objects
of which are more important to the rising
generation? Shall good grow out of our
thus assembling? I answer, assuredly, if
we have met with single hearts, devoid of
every selfish or otherwise wrong feeling
and devoted to the cause we represent.
	Do we understand how much depends on
the course we pursue—upon how faithfully,
how wisely, how unitedly we act? If we
can answer affirmatively, and our actions
are in accordance therewith, success will
crown our efforts. Perhaps there is no asso-
ciation the meeting of which is more needed,
more timely or more important than this.
To be sure, we do not claim to be laboring at
the top of the tree, but amongst the roots.
[new column]
We are helping to lay the foundations of
society; and that our work be well done is
a primary matter.
	There is one object that has been impres-
sed on my mind lately, and to which I
respectfully call your attention, and that is
the subject of religious and moral training
in our schools. I would ask, can any system
of education be acceptable to this people,
that ignores religion or morality, or that
dwarfs these essential elements? Our
schools should be opened by prayer to God.
We were all born in lands favored with the
Bible, we have been taught from our infancy
that “the fear of the Lord is the beginning
of wisdom,” and shall our common schools
be the first to ignore this sentiment?
	To reverence the Supreme Being should
be one of the first lessons imparted by the
parent to the child. The precept of the
parent should be perpetuated and indorsed
by the teacher, that the educational founda-
tion may be laid aright. Man’s nature is
complex. That man has a religious nature
is illustrated by the fact that where the
true religion does not exist humanity will
be found bowing to idols. Man has an in-
tellectual, a physical and a moral nature.
	Are we not apt to narrow in our educa-
tional ideas, and to give undue weight to
intellectual culture? Cultivate the intellect
and neglect the heart and you may usher
into the world an intellectual monster. As
has been frequently observed, some of the
greatest scourges of our race have been men
of powerful and cultivated intellects. That
“knowledge is power” none will gainsay, and
that it is equally potent for evil as for good
all will readily admit. Where the intellectual
qualities have been cultivated but to enable a
mortal to inflict misery upon his fellows,
ignorance would Indeed have been bliss.
Any educational system that fails to give
due prominence to religious and moral
training is defective. Education has been
defined to proper training of the “whole
man.” If he were endowed with a physical
nature only, all he would need would be
physical training. On the other hand if he
were a purely intellectual being, Intellectual
culture would comprehend all that could be
included in a perfect education.
	It has been truthfully said that “the ex-
altation of talent, as it is called, above virtue
and religion, is the curse of the age.
Education is now chiefly a stimulus to learn-
ing, and thus men acquire power without
the principles which alone make it good.
Talent is worshiped; but if divorced from
rectitude, it will prove more of a demon
[-]han a god.”
	Education essays to elevate the child to
an honorable position in society, to assist in
making him a competent, intelligent and
virtuous citizen, a good patriot. If this be
the aim, it is palpable that too little stress
is often laid upon the moral and religious
training of our youth. It is patent to us all
that man is susceptible of fervent and per-
manent religious feelings. The child is in-
fluenced by hope and fear and early can be
made to judge of that which leads to do evil
and that which leads to do good. That he
has a conscience—a heart susceptible of
cultivation, is soon apparent. This leads us to
the conclusion that religious training should
be a part of his education. “Train up a
child in the way he should go and when he
is old he will not depart from it.” This is
the counsel of the Almighty. Can webet-
ter it?
	Dr. Humphrey has well said:—“A more
Utopian dream never visited the brain of a
sensible man than that which promises to
usher in a now golden age by the diffusion
and thoroughness of what is commonly
[new column]
understood by popular education. With all
its funds, and improved school-houses, and
able teachers, and grammars, and maps,
and black-boards, such an education is
essentially defective. Without moral prin-
ciple at bottom to guide and control its
energies, education is a sharp sword in the
hands of a practiced and reckless fencer. I
have no hesitation in saying, that if we
could have but one, moral and religious
culture is even more important than a
knowledge of letters; and that the former
can not be excluded from any system of
popular education without infinite hazard.
Happily, the two are so far from being
hostile powers in the common domain,
that they are natural allies, moving on
harmoniously in the same right line, and
mutually strengthening each other. The
more virtue you can infuse into the hearts
of your pupils, the better they will improve
their time, and the more rapid will be their
proficiency in their common studies. The
most successful teachers have found the
half hour devoted to moral and religious
instruction more profitable to the scholar
than any other half hour in the day, and
there are no teachers who govern their
schools with so much ease as this class.
Though punishment is sometimes necessary
where moral influence has done its utmost,
the conscience is, in all ordinary cases, an
infinitely better disciplinarian than the
rod. When you can get a scholar to obey
and to study because it is right, and from a
conviction of accountability to God, you
have gained a victory which is worth more
than all the penal statutes in the world, but
can never gain such a victory without lay-
ing great stress upon religious principle in
your daily instructions.”
		PEN AND SCISSORS. 
	A, flush of hope renders toil and trial
beautiful, as the sunbeams give a sparkle to
the winter’s frost.
	Sickly people, it is said, live longer
single than they would if married, and
healthy people live longer in pairs.
	Because a man does not see as you do is
not a proof that he is blind or near sighted;
and because he does not think with you on
all subjects Is no sign that he is a fool. The
eyes of the pigeon answer its purposes per-
fectly, but would not do for the hawk; and
why should a cow eat raw meat in prefer-
ence to corn or cabbage because a tiger
considers it a better diet?
	It is the wealthy and independent who
scoff at poverty; never the learned and wise
who mock at crude simplicity; never the
pure and good who evince no charity for
frail, erring humanity. And none but the
exceedingly ignorant are guilty of these
things.
	A Nautical School, presided over and con-
ducted by a lady, who has herself, within
the last ten years, educated in Navigation
and Astronomy, and fitted for active service
at sea, more than two thousand young men
—the most of whom were officers in the U.
S. Navy during the rebellion—is now in ac-
tive operation in the Rooms of the New York
Port Society, on the corner of Madison and
Catharine Streets, under the supervision of
Mrs. Capt. Brownlow—late Principal of the
N. Y. Nautical School, established by her
father, Capt. William Thomas, more than
twenty years ago.


﻿Six simultaneous applications for divorce
emanate from one family in Maysville,
Kentucky.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[For	the Exponent.	
	“AND MURDERS INCREASE IN THE
				LAND.” 

	Almost every passing day brings to our ears
some fresh recital of blood and crime, which
fills us with sickening horror. Every year
adds hundreds to the list of Cains, accursed
of God and abhorred of men.
	No man can say he is safe from the ball
and steel of the assassin, and neither matron
nor maid can divine how soon she may fall a
victim to redhanded violence. Even the
infant in its cradle is not exempt from this
terrible doom.
	Our criminal cells are full of felons; the
sword of justice hurries hundreds uncalled
into eternity; and still the awful cry ascends
that earth is reeking with the blood of her
children, which blood cries out for redress.
	Whence comes this demon of ferocity and
disregard of the sacred rights of human
life? Why is the fair page in the history
of human life thus foully blotted? Who are
responsible for the fierce and sanguinary
impulses which prompt one frail mortal to
take the life of another?
	Oh, woman! Oh mothers! when you see
a darkbrowed, bloodstained criminal led
forth to answer the question addressed to
Cain—“Where is thy brother?” does relent-
less conscience accuse you of attempting
to take that man’s life before he saw the
light of day? Did you meditate release
from the restraint of his presence by raising
your hand against the life of the helpless
being whose only safeguard against your
cruelty, was the care of Him who forgets
not the least of His creatures?
	If so, then, mother, hide your face in
shame and wring your hands in despair; for
at your door, that responsibility lies. You
have deliberately given your child over to
perdition. You have steeped his soul in
crime and violence, and planted in him the
deadly seeds of rashness. Your dark and
criminal meditations, even if they never
assumed the magnitude of actual attempts,
have been impressed upon his plastic mind
and have given form to the motive powers
which govern his walk in life; and tears of
efface shed by you in after years, could not
blood, their blighting influence.
	When the man is born into the world,
you have no more power to shape his origi-
inal disposition; you may, indeed, with
much watchfulness and care, cultivate and
modify his character, but the leading traits
will ever remain to bless or curse the world
and himself.
	Oh, woman! though so frail in body
and seeming, how mighty! how lasting! is
your influence! Peeress, almost of God
Himself in shaping the destinies of this
world, through the dispositions you implant
in the children of men, think not your
sphere is narrow nor your influence unfelt.
	You may through prayer and watchful-
ness and strong determination, give your
child a soul and system unmarred by one
motive to crime, firm in integrity, upright
in every thought and deed, a blessing to his
kindred, his country and even the age which
gave him birth; or you may indulge in dark
thoughts and evil motives, fully assured
that, since from a child which is yet part of
yourself you can keep no secrets, every dark
design and crooked purpose will be mirrored
in thesensitive organization of the little
one, to bear bitter fruit in the years to come,
when your influence will be utterly unfelt,
or the grave separates you from him, leav-
ing him entirely at the mercy of his own
hateful passions.
	Then, mothers, pause and consider, for
one moment, the magnitude of the power
[new column]
and responsibility resting upon you. Re-
member, each one, you are arbitress of the
destiny of an immortal being; and try by
every means in your power to plant germs of
integrity and purity, instead of death and
destruction. Cultivate your own mind and
heart in the knowledge and admiration of
all things lovely and of good report, that
the blessing may descend to those you leave
behind you.
	Never even contemplate the possibility of
yielding your consent to a wrong, no matter
how small, if you would have your child
lead a blameless life; but above all things,
never, NEVER think of freeing yourself from
the incumbrance of an expected child; for
if you succeed your hands are stained with
innocent blood; and if you fail, your child
may grow up with dwarfed soul and
deformed principles, to be a source of an-
guish and despair to all who love him, and,
in a moment of madness, he may lift his
hand against the life of a fellow-creature;
thus adding one more horror to the blood-
curdling cry of “Murder!!”
							L. L. D.
Beaver, April 4th, 1873.


FACTS AND FIGURES.   
 			——
 CHICAGO now has a population of 380,000.
 FORTY-nine operas failed in Italy last
year.
 THE Shah of Persia is building a new ten-
acre palace.
 TWENTY-one editors have recently been
elected Mayors in Illinois.     
 BROADWAY, N. Y., is to be widened at a
cost of $3,800,000.
 SENATOR Pomroy owns 120,000 acres of
land. 	
 DES MOINES is to have a $50,000 opera
house. 	
 No fewer than 175 almanacs for 1874 have
been published in Paris.
 THE new United States Hotel at Saratoga,
will have a mile of piazzas.
 MICHIGAN has 148 legislators, not one of
whom was born in the State. 
 OHIO GIRL students play base ball, and
the newspapers talk of it. Well? 
 TEXAS is improving rapidly.   She has
944 convicts in her penitentiary now,
against 21 in 1862.
 SIX members of the German royal family
make up an aggregate stature of thirty-six
feet and two inches.
 LADY Burdett Coutts supports a sewing
school of two hundred pupils in Spitalfields,
and a night school in Shoreditch.


A HOUSEHOLD TREASURE  
	Every Family should have a Washing Machine;
and there is none better—if as good—we truthfully
and earnestly consider, having had experience in
working and taken pains in observing several kinds,
as the TELEGRAPH WASHING MACHINE, which is
manufactured in this city, and sold by George God-
dard; to whom all orders concerning it should be
addressed, “P. O. Box 474, Salt Lake City.”
	We take pleasure in recommending this Machine
to the ladies of Utah, and advise them to prove its
superiority by purchasing and using it.

CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

TAYLOR & CUTLER EAST TEMPLE
Street, have a Splendid Line of LADIES' DRESS
GOODS, which will arrive about the First of April,
selected by Mr. Cutler in New York expressly for
this trade.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
		H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city.  Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

Z. C. M. I.
    RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.
  To meet the demand of an increasing business we
have added an essential addition to our
			RETAIL ROOM,
wherein the most economical buyer can be suited.
It is our highest ambition to suit our various visitants
and purchasers, and to display our varied fabrics
regardless of purchase.
 This department aims to suit the demands of all
whether in
	DOMESTIC OR FANCY DRESS GOODS,
either by the yard or piece.
				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup't.

			NEW CLUB RATES.
Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club 	   -	      -	        -         -	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-		 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav- 
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	 	-	-	  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-			 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the Exponent.


Woman's Exponent.
Vol. I. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1873.	No. 24.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The Mormon question—How many
wives has he?
	The Pope still lingers in feeble health,
not expected long to survive.
	A Rhode Island man is under arrest for
the horrible crime of kicking his wife to
death. Was this worse than brute worthy
to have a wife!
	Mark Twain declares he would go
hungry two days rather than eat an old
personal friend. Such friendship should
be appreciated!
	The Tower of Babel style, is the name we
propose fora kind of head-dress now in vogue.
It rises toward heaven, but its owners will
never climb there by it.
	Fears of a general Indian war over the
west are widely felt, and may possibly be
realized if the cry for the extermination of
the aborigines continues and is sustained by
the country.
	Where women have the right to vote in
school districts, schools increase and grog-
geries decrease. The moral is obvious. Let
there be more schools and fewer dens of in-
temperance.
	The motto of the Good Templar girls of
Salem, New Jersey, is worth recording in
golden letters, and being hung up for gen-
eral admiration and adoption. It is: “The
lips that touch wine shall never touch
mine.”
	Official dishonesty has come to be
looked upon, in this country, as a rather
commendable kind of “smartness,” and as a
consequence, the public have frequent op-
portunities of applauding and rewarding
public robbers.
	A bridge gave way at a baptism at Dix-
on, near the Illinois State line, and precipi-
tating a crowd of people into the river, over
fifty of whom were drowned or killed, is
one of the latest horrors reported; and “no-
body to blame,” as usual.
	Two police captains of New York have
been represented to Mayor Havemeyer as
having pecuniary interests in gambling estab-
lishments. They will probably be promoted
to judgeships or be sent as Governors to
some of the Territories.
	A Marriageable young lady in Iowa
was lately locked in her room by her
father, but her lover got her out by a writ
of habeas corpus, and married her. That’s
what comes of understanding “business.”
More young men should go to studying law.
	Historians and novelists of this country,
will find their stores of foundation matter
for the present period largely increased
from the incidents recorded of the fierce and
bloody “war” with the Modocs. But small,
indeed, are the gains in such instances,
compared with the losses.
	The late claims of the women of Massa-
chusetts, and their petition to the Senate
and House of Representatives of the com-
monwealth of that State, to have plurality
of wives recognized and legalized, in order
that the surplus women may be provided
with homes and husbands, as it is every
woman’s right to be, shows that in this as
well as other matters, the intelligent and
[new column]
thoughtful women of the day, are, without
violating any order or law, superceding
the sterner sex.
	Robert B. Rosevelt holds the ladies
responsible for a drag on legislation on great
days, when they crowd the galleries of
Congress and “certain members air their
rhetoric just to let the ladies see what they
can do;” and he thinks this should be
remedied by the ladies visiting the halls of
Congress more frequently; a remedy which
many ladies would consider a good one.
	Civil war is actually raging in Louisiana,
as a consequence of there being two govern-
ments in the State, one supported by the
United States government, the other by the
majority of the people of the State. Armed
bands of men, supplied with artillery, are
in the field, and bloody contests are of
almost daily occurrence. Is this the begin-
ing of another tribulation?
	A writer from Paris describes a meet-
ing of French women, where she says a mob
was at the entrance, and as a woman rose to
speak, a chair was hurled at her; and as
another woman rose, chairs were hurled
over the heads of the audience. We have
read of the extraordinary politeness of the
“Messieurs,” but was scarcely aware of its
consistency being so similar to that of Chris-
tian purity.”
	It has been proved, by scientific re-
searches, that the perfume of flowers over-
comes noxious vapors that are often in the
atmosphere, especially the exhalations from
marshy grounds or decomposing animal
matter. In other words, they are healthful,
and add to life as well as minister to the
enjoyment of the senses. Plant flowers,
then, for their beauty; and perfume flowers
for their fragrance; and you will increase
the general health as a result.
	Great men are dropping off suddenly.
Chief Justice Chase, a truly great man, a
“pillar in the State of solid form,” a just
judge, a wise statesman, and a firm upholder
of the Constitution of our country, died in
New York last week; and his funeral ser-
vices were performed in Washington on
Monday, 12th inst. He will long be re-
membered as one of the most conservative
men in the government, at a time when the
centralizing tendencies of the age were
rapidly stripping the American people of
their sovereign rights reserved by them in
the Constitution. John Stuart Mill, the
eminent English political economist and
advocate of woman’s rights, also died last
week at Avignon, France; having left be-
hind him, in his works, a memory that will
be enduring.
	It has been discovered that chalk can be
used as fuel, by placing it in a grate with
alternate layers of coal. If, as some people
imagine, the coal supply of the globe is
rapidly becoming exhausted, some substitute
must be found, but the quantity of chalk in
the world, so far as known, would not meet
the demand for a great length of time. In
burning coal the inhabitants of the earth
now are using up the “preserved sunbeams”
of past ages, the heat then poured upon
vegetation yielding warmth and becoming
useful now, as that vegetation, in the shape
of coal, is returned to the elements by being
[new column]
consumed by fire. But people need not
worry themselves over the prospect of the
world’s being thrown back into barbarism
because of the failure of the supply of fuel;
the same beneficent Hand that formed the
coal beds from the flora of prehistoric ages,
can furnish another supply should this be-
come exhausted.
	One of the saddest things we have seen
recorded for a long time was the case of a
boy fifteen years of age, arrested and impris-
oned in New York the other day, on the
charge of being drunk, yet who had not
taken liquor. On an investigation of the case
it was discovered that before the boy was
born his father had been a habitual but
secret drunkard, and when the fact was
made known to the wife it almost deprived
her of reason. Her child was born, and
grow up bearing all the outward appearances
of being a drunkard though rigidly temper-
ate. He has the air, the manners, the look,
and the reeling gait of one intoxicated, and
when excited stammers, and speaks in
broken words, like a drunken man. Thus
his life has been blasted and his earthly ex-
istence cursed by his father’s sin. It should
be added, however, that the father, when
he learned how terribly the news of his
degradation affected his wife, made and
kept a resolution of reform, became an
altered and temperate man, and is now the
father of a family of bright, intelligent
children—all but the fated first-born.


﻿FRUIT FOR CHILDREN.

	Fruits have been marked as the special
enemies of childhood—the things to he
avoided at that age above all the rest.
Farmers, unable to keep their children out
of their orchards, have been known to cut
down their fruit-trees so as to place the
pernicious things beyond their reach; and
nothing is more common than to hear men
and women predicting that “the season is
going to be sickly because there is so much
fruit.” It would be difficult to conceive of
any notion more absurd than this; and yet
it has had for many years the sanction of
the highest medical authority. One of the
precepts that have come down to us from
the mostancient school of medicine founded
in Christendom contains a warning against
the enjoyment of these rich gifts of Provi-
dence—“Autumni fructus caveas, no sint
tibi luctus”—and well and faithfully has the
precept been inculcated by the successors of
the faculty of Salernum.  Instinct and
reason, however, have begun at last to pre-
vail over the heresy, and now physicians
generally when asked an opinion, say, “Eat
all the fruit you want—the more the better.”
And, indeed, nothing could be more sensible
than this answer. I am not sure the sense
of languor and lassitude so generally felt in.
the Spring is not owing to the want of fruit,
from which probably results a state of the
system bordering on scurvy.  By sub-acid
fruits and the vegetables of Summer, that
scorbutic tendency is corrected, and in
Autumn, as a consequence, the acme of
health is attained. On this account I should
place foremost among the culinary inven-
tions of our times the art of preserving
fruits in their fresh state all the year round.
—“Home and School."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿[For the Exponent.
			TO ERNEST.

My own, these laughter-loving days, whose feet
Should gaily trip to sunshine’s merry horn,
Whose golden eyes should wake with smiles so sweet,
Till raptured eve from rosy, dewy morn,
Are all obscured with clouds so dim and gray,
Whose dun and trailing robes and falling tears
So over-shadow all my lonely way.
That hours seem surely length’ning into years.

The silv’ry tinkle of rain-cymbals overhead
(So like the patter of fairy feet in dreams,
Which o’er their smooth, green circles lightly tread,
While on the revels Luna softly beams,)
Fills my rapt soul with thoughts of that sweet night
When hand in hand, we wandered forth afar,
When only stars smiled out to give us light,
But benedictions beamed from every star.

Where no eye saw save His who reigns above,
In the hush and silence of that holy hour,
Apart in soul from all else living, Love,
Where God in Nature reigned in peace and power,
We lowly bowed before th’ Eternal throne
(But one in spirit, though two hands were joined)
And purely, truely, you confessed your own
True love and humbly sought the gift of mine.

You plead for guidance for our troubled souls—
O’er our coming lives a Father’s kindly care.
And that, when dread temptation darkly rolls, 
Our steadfast faith might keep our purpose fair.
The pure petition fell like summer rain
Upon the thirsty fields when parched and gray;
And doubts and fears that on my soul had Iain
Like cliffs of terror, melted soft away.

The waves of dread and trouble in my breast
Fell gently, ’neath that holy trusting prayer
Like some tired infant to its evening rest, 
And Peace spread over me her pinions fair.
Our souls were mingled then for evermore,
Like twin rills meeting in the mighty sea;
And still as one we’ll seek the shining shore
Of that fair life we call Eternity.
								Lu Dalton.


R. S. REPORTS.
	Report from Provo: The sisters in the
4th Ward Relief Society are faithful in the
discharge of their duties, and many of them
impart of their substance until I almost
think the receiver fares better than the
giver. Our meetings are not so well
attended as I could wish but the “faithful
few” seem to possess a good spirit and enjoy
our communion together. I believe the
Relief Societies have had a great influence
in uniting the hearts of the sisters and of
doing away, in some degree, with that ex-
clusiveness which has been too much in the
midst of the Saints. We have invested in
Co-operative institutions where we have a
small but perpetual benefit in dividends;
but in consequence of the many poor in our
Ward we have not been able as yet to build
a house but hope to do so in time.
		Repectfully yours,
		  Ruia A. Holden, President.

	The following is a brief synopsis of the
minutes of the 57th meeting of the Senior
and Junior Co-operative Retrenchment As-
sociation of Salt Lake City, held May 10th,
1873, at the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms.
	After singing and prayer, minutes of the
previous meeting were read and accepted;
minutes of meetings held in the 9th, 10 and
11th Wards were also read. The spirit of
the meeting was to impress upon the minds
of the sisters the importance of each one
seeking diligently to carry out the com-
mandments of the Lord, as given in words
of counsel and instruction by President
Brigham Young. They were admonished
to take interest in saving their paper rags
and jointly assisting in commencing and
maturing the plan suggested by President
Young, of making their own books. The
Exponent was also spoken of, and the
sisters were urged to renew their subscrip-
tions—those who had taken the first volume
—and those who had never subscribed for
[new column]
it, were advised and solicited to do so.
The subject of writing was introduced, and
the fact illustrated that practice and cultiva-
tion in composition would prove that true
talent and genius existed with many of the
daughters of Zion.  Sympathy and appro-
bation were expressed in relation to the
course being pursued by the women of
Lowell, Massachussets.  Faith and prayer
were spoken of as safe guards against
temptation and sin, and requisite auxiliaries
in accomplishing whatever was undertaken.
The speakers were President Mrs. Mary I.
Horne, Mrs. W. East, Counselors Mrs. B.
W. Smith, E. Howard and S. M. Kimball,
Mrs. Nancy Kennedy, Mrs. Leaver and Mrs.
Eleanor J. Pratt.
	“Medicine” was chosen as a subject for
the next meeting. Meeting adjourned; dis-
missed by singing and prayer.
			Maggie M. Groo, Secretary.
				 
	From the 12th Ward, Salt Lake City,
May 8, 1873:
	The 12th Ward Relief Society was organ-
ized April 29th, 1868, with Mrs. Priscilla
Staines, President, Mrs. Amanda Smith and
Mrs. Ruth Sayers Counselors. On April 7th,
1870, Mrs. Sayers was obliged to resign, on
account of ill health, and Mrs. Emily P.
Young was chosen to fill her place. The
Society is in a flourishing condition, although
but few in comparison attend our meetings.
The teachers are faithful in visiting on
their various blocks, instructing the sisters
and gathering their offerings; and we are
happy to state that the people of the Ward
have responded liberally to whatever call
has been made.  In looking over the books
I see that the disbursements for the poor and
other charitable purposes were for 1868, in
merchandise, $184:98; for 1869, $354:45; for
1870, $232:82; for 1871, $370:05; and for
1872, $399:25; with a balance on hand of
$105:55; making in all of cash and merchan-
dise, $1,647:10.  At a meeting held in the
Ward school house, May 1st, 1873, Counselor Mrs.
Amanda Smith made a motion that we drop the
word “Female” from the name of our Society, in
accordance with the views of our beloved Sister,
Miss E. R. Snow. Also that a report of the finan-
cial state of our Society be made out and forwarded
to the Exponent for publication; both of which
were carried unanimously. Our meetings are held
the first Thursday of every month at 2. p. m.
		   Mrs. Priscilla Staines, Pres.
			" Amanda Smith, }	Counselors.
			" Emily P. Young, }
			" H. A. Hardy, Secretary.
			" Sophia L. Hardy, Treasurer.

	 We are favored with the following from Spring
City, Sanpete County: Our Society was organized
May 10th, 1868, with Mrs. Mary Ann Hyde,President;
Mrs. Elizabeth Allred, first Counselor, Mrs. Ann
Larson, second Counselor, Mrs. Philindia Benson,
Secretary and Mrs. Mary Ann Frantzen, Treasurer.
Having suffered by Indian depredations, as well as
by being sorely scourged by the ravages of grass-
hoppers, and being a small settlement, we have not
accomplished as much as some others under more
favorable circumstances. We have at present $125
in the co-operative store; in the treasury $70;
some grain and other articles; besides a goodly
portion of building material towards building a
house. We have donated to the poor at home,
emigration and other public calls, during the last
year, $182:27. This is not a full account of all
that has been done, for some accounts have been
lost in changing Secretaries.  The word “Female,”
has been withdrawn from the name of the Society
by unanimous vote.
	Our President, Mrs. Hyde, is a faithful Saint,
striving to her utmost to carry out all the duties
which devolve upon her.
	We have suffered severely from the spotted
[new column]
fever; quite a number have died from its effects,
some twenty within the last six months.
	Wishing success to the Exponent,
		Respectfully,
 				Mrs. P. Benson, Secretary.

	This comes from Bountiful, May 2d, 1873:
Having been rather dilatory in forwarding
a report of this Branch of the Relief Society,
we will now endeavor to be as brief as pos-
sible. The Society was organized in 1868,
by Bishop Stoker and his Counselors, as
follows: Elizabeth H. Barlow, President,
Lucinda Sessions and Mary Jane Crosby,
Counselors; Mary Carter Secretary and Cor-
delia Carter, Treasurer. During the five
years the Society has been organized we
have received in cash $564:19; in merchan-
dise, $1,318:09 1/2. Disbursed to the poor
in cash $322:90; in goods, $1,025:07 1/2; have
helped the P. E. Fund; have shares in the
Co-operative store and design building a
hall for the benefit of the Society, which we
have already commenced. We feel it a
satisfaction to know that we can be co-
workers together with and lighten the care
of our brethren, in helping to roll forth the
kingdom of God; and that it is woman’s por-
tion to be full of charity, seek out the
oppressed, the poor, the widow and the
orphan, imparting to them of her substance
—and binding up the broken heart. We
have a great interest in the Exponent—
		Through which we rejoice to hear,
		From our sisters far and near;
		Stimulating ev’ry heart.
		To press on and bear a part.	
	Elizabeth H. Barlow, President.
	Mary Carter, Secretary.

	From Marriottsville, near Ogden: The
Relief Society of Lynn and Marriottsville
was organized April 21st, 1870. Since that
time it has disbursed to the poor of the two
settlements, $103;30; to the Emigration
Fund, $100; has also assisted in building the
Ladies’ Store in Ogden City, donated to the
Marriottsville Sunday School, has at present
two shares (ten dollars) in the Ladies’ Store
and $30 in the Treasury. On the 21st and
22d ult., we celebrated the anniversary of
our organization; held meetings both days,
well attended and favored with the pres-
ence and kind, cheering instructions of
our brethren; after which, we concluded
the little season of social enjoyment with a
"party" at  which good order and harmony
prevailed. We had previously voted unan-
imously to adopt the change of name for the
Society, omitting the word "Female." We
admire and highly appreciate the “Woman’s
Exponent” and design doing all we can in
sustaining that and every good cause.
			Ann Bickington, President:
			Lydia Gates, } 
			Nancy Tracy } Counselors:
			C. Parry, Secretary;


Agnes Goulding, for a number of years
matron of the home for discharged female
prisoners at Dedham, has been appointed
matron of the Clark Institution for deaf
mutes, at Northampton, and enters upon her
duties in June.	
	Carrie N. Forsythe, of Chicago, daughter
of Charles S. Forsythe of Illinois, deceased,
has brought suit in the Circuit Court,
against the National Life Insurance Company
of Chicago, placing her damages at $6,000.
From the bill filed it appears that the
deceased was insured in the “Commercial
League” of the company, which guaranteed
an indemnity of $4,000 at least, but although
proof of death has been duly submitted and
the funds demanded, the company has
refused to pay over the same.


WOMAN'S. EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
WORKING MEN AND WORKING WO-
			   MEN.
			    ——
— "O! Oh!” says Madam Grundy, “the
idea of our girls setting themselves up to be
some great big “I’s,” and attempting to be-
come ‘business women!' It's perfectly
absurd—it is awful!”
	Why, auntie, has not a woman the same
right to be a business individual that a man
has? She was created like him to live upon
the earth; like him she must eat and drink
and be provided with a habitation wherein
to dwell, and material wherewith she may
be clothed. Is it less honorable in her
to take proper measures to obtain, fairly
and justly, the little essentials of life, or even
luxuries, if she desires them, than to be
dependent on man, or apparently so, for
whatever her fancy or reason may require?
“Ah, but,” says madam, “she amply pays
for all she gets,if she stays at home and
attends to her household affairs with pro-
priety. There is no necessity for a woman
ever to leave the house to find employment;
there is always abundance of work to be
done in every family.” There you are
quite right, Mrs. G., and further, no girl
should be brought up without a knowledge
of house-keeping and cookery. But all this
does not prove that no woman should learn
and practice any suitable trade, art or pro-
fession. In our common schools, girls as
well as boys are required to study mathe-
matics and other branches which are but
little benefit to them, if all they are to be
allowed to think of is preparing meals and
keeping the house in order. But it is their
lawful and just privilege to progress in
knowledge and worth in every form, prac-
tically as well as mentally; and, as men do,
make choice among whatever legitimate
courses present themselves, of the one most
acceptable for gaining—not alone a liveli-
hood—but influence and recognized utility
in society as well.
	“Yes,” argues the old lady, “but it is so
out of place, so improper, for women to be
associated with men in business transactions,
as they inevitably must be, in order to
become acquainted with and successfully
carry on any of the employments which
have been so long controlled by men; such
as clerking, working in printing establish-
ments, etc.” Is it, then, to be considered a
disparagement to either, for men and women
to be in the society of each other? Yet
men who are habitually associated with
women of refined natures, are themselves
superior to other men. They lose their
rude, declamatory and pedantic ways, and
become more chivalric, courtly and elegant
in mind and heart, as in manner and address.
The woman, too, who becomes accustomed
to the society of educated, honorable men,
so that she is at ease and enjoys freedom of
thought and speech in such associations,
becomes also superior to her sex in general,
and to her former self. Her better senses
are awakened; she finds, by continued
conversation with the enlightened of
the opposite sex, that she possesses high
and noble faculties which brighten into
richness and glowing worth under the
influence of intellectual competition; and
grace and dignity take the place of frivolity
and timidity, without changing in the
smallest degree the delicate, chaste, and
gentle peculiarities of her woman's nature.
Did not the Eternal and Allwise Creator,
say it was not good for man to be alone, and
therefore made for him a help mate in the
form of woman?   Wherefore, then, should
there be so great a distinction placed be-
[new column]
tween man. and woman, since they were
created for each other?
	The cause of working men .and working
women being embarrassed and awkward in
the society of the opposite sex, is simply
force of habit. The rich man’s sons and
daughters, who give much of their time
to pleasure and amusement, are continually
brought in contact with companions of both
sexes. Hence, their superior grace and
seeming intellectual powers. The children
of laborers are less-connected and gain less
self-confidence; and then it is thought that
they are less gifted and naturally more
sluggish in mind. But they must not seek
to break the barrier which restrains them—
O no! it is “absurd” for a working woman to
undertake to establish for herself any thing
but the “humdrum” drudge life Madam
Grundy has been, pleased to mark out for
her. If she attempts to advance in the
scale of practical education any higher than
to have an understanding of how to knit and
sew, or scrub and cook, she is growing
“strong minded,” and that is “awful,”
	But after all, work must be done; and in
reality, a woman who will and must work,
has as just a right to work by the side of a
man, as another who will not work and
is able to live without it, has to walk, ride,
dance or sit on the sofa beside one.  Men
and women were not made to dwell separate,
but in the society of each other.	G.


﻿PETITION FOR POLYGAMY.
	
	The following petition has been prepared
and signed by a large number of ladies in
Lowell, Massachusetts, to be presented to
the Legislature of that State. The petition
has already appeared in a number of lead-
ing Eastern journals, the first to give it
place being the New York Graphic, from
which it was clipped into the Chicago Times
and other papers:
				Lowell, April—,1873.
To the Honorable the Senate and House of
		Representatives of the Commonwealth
		of Massachusetts:
	The undersigned, citizens of the State,
respectfully set forth the grievances under
which they suffer as women who are not
permitted to vote, hold any and all offices,
and engage in the occupations opened to
men, and are otherwise restricted in the
opportunity of earning a living, and here-
with beg your permission to suggest a
remedy for these evils, upon which they
pray your honorable body to act.
	The law which now governs society says,
practically, that women should be married,
should engage in work at their own homes,
and should look to their husbands for sup-
port. On the other hand, the census shows
that it is impossible to carry out this un-
written but recognized law, for the reason
that there is a large excess of women in the
commonwealth, and many of the men of
lawful age are idle, vicious, incompetent, or
otherwise unfit to be heads of households.
Yet your petitioners hold that the matter
is not without remedy. Prejudice and cus-
tom has decided in favor of restricting the
husband to a single wife, yet without justice
and authority, as we believe. In the Book
which lies at the foundation of all law recog-
nized in this country, there is no injunction
against a plurality of wives, while there are
many examples therein recorded in its
favor. Men’s wives appear to have in-
creased in number in proportion with their
flocks and riches. Such a rule even now
holds in the land from which the Christian
nations received their religion.
	Your petitioners have no desire to inter-
fere with the regulations of any existing
[new column]
household, but simply to present their claims
to the marriage state for your respectful
consideration. They deem it their privilege
and their duty to suggest the marriage of a
man to more than one wife, in cases where
the first wife does not object, and where it
is made evident that the man is able to sup-
port the burden laid upon his resources.
They are aware that it takes years to remove
prejudices, and that those who take a second
or third place in the household may be looked
upon with disfavor; but confident that their
proposed action will ultimately do away
with much of the social evil which afflicts
and distresses all communities, they are
willing to be the first to engage in this work
of reform. Society which now insists that
woman shall be married and look to her
husband for support, will, after mature
reflection, counteract this effort to carry out
the law practically.
	It is far from the design of your peti-
tioners to ask legislation in behalf of free
love or any loosening of the marriage bond.
We ask that the marriage of the second wife
shall be made as permanent and binding
as that of the first, and that all the children
of the household shall have equal honor.
And in asking this, we believe we have
taken a long stop toward doing away with
foundling asylums, preventing ante-natal
murders, and lessening the vagabond child
population of our large cities.
	For the reasons enumerated your peti-
tioners respectfully ask the passage of a law
permitting plural marriages in the cases
above enumerated, and under such other
conditions as to your judgment may seem
wise and proper.
	And your petitioners will ever pray, etc.


[For the Exponent.
		IMPORTANCE OF DECISION.

	Is it better to spend half a life-time
contemplating what is best to do, than to make
up your mind to some laudable course of
conduct and make a bold attempt to reach
the mark you set out for, even though it be
not the highest on record, and, even though
you come short of gaining the exact point
you started for? I think not. True, “it is
better to move moderately than to move
wrong;" and it is well to “look before you
leap;” but indecision holds many a man from
achieving the most praiseworthy results of
high and noble ambition. A young man
realizes that he might become a first class
architect, or a superior workman of any
kind; he would like the trade, has the
abilities and, probably, there is nothing in
the way to interfere with his commencing
to learn at once. But it will require time
and patience and practice to acquire a
thorough knowledge of it, such as he would
need, if he undertook it, and possibly
something else may be presented that will
be a little easier and pay better just now—
the future stands away off and can be looked
after when it gets here. He will wait a year
or two, and look around. he does not
really know that the trade would suit him,
it might not be as much to his taste as he
imagines.  So the chance passes without
being improved, and the time slips away
and is lost. And thus people waste the
best and most useful days of their lives in
very many instances; and, nothing being
decided upon, nothing is accomplished.
	There is no necessity for taking what
seems to be a wrong step in order to move
in some direction. The way chosen may
not always prove the wisest; but we may
dally in uncertainty half our lives, for fear
of running a dangerous risk, and then make
the worst of mistakes when we are too old to
rise above and outlive them. 	Mignona.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			LOUISE E. GREENE, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten Copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers Woman’s Exponent,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.
			SALT LAKE CITY, MAY 15, 1873.


﻿SPLINTERS.

	The Sunday liquor law is strictly en-
forced throughout Petersburg......A horse-
shoer in Worcester lately had both legs
broken by a horse which he was shoeing.......
Three young men were recently drowned at
Albany by the capsizing of a pleasure boat
in which they were sailing......Only two
buildings were left standing at San Salvador
after the recent terrible earthquake, the
Hotel del Parque and the Government
palace, both badly damaged, and the latter
has since fallen......A colored man has been
appointed to a $1,200 clerkship in the custom
house in New York......In Washington,
Pennsylvania, a short time ago, a wholesale
jail delivery occurred, a notorious murderer
being among the escaped prisoners.....A
Quincy man was lately found in the street
who had been robbed of $15 in money, and
his pants, all but one pocket which contained
$25 to which he had clung with desperation.
......Nearly 500 persons were killed and
wounded by the San Salvador earthquake.
......Senator Sumner, though still feeble,
his physicians think, with proper care,
may recover and yet be in the full enjoy-
ment of health......A woman in Troy, N. Y.,
was lately sent to jail for stealing $60 worth
of clothing from another woman........Of
15,193 teachers whom Iowa employs, 9,355
are women......A brother of England’s dis
tinguished statesman, John Bright, lately
died at Geneva, Switzerland.......Mr. A. T.
Stewart’s “Home for Working Women,” in
New York, is about completed......The
Flushing “Journal” of Flushing, Long
Island, has only begun to think that of all
points of the age, the most important point
for consideration is the children; we sup-
posed every “thinker” had thought of that
long ago.....In Kansas is a man loafing
around the streets, a drunken vagraut, who
during the war of the Rebellion, won for
his gallantry as a soldier, the commission
of Brevet Major General; intemperance and
the gambling table have wrought this ruin.
......The Legislature of Pennsylvania has
passed a bill appropriating for the Centen-
nial Exhibition $1,000,000....It is announced
that Edward S. Stokes is again doomed to
suffer, in expiation of the murder of James
Fisk, the full penalty of the law......Last
month’s storm appears to have made a gen-
eral sweep over nearly the whole of the
United States.....Iowa refuses to establish
capital punishment.......The national debt
of Japan is estimated at $140,000,000.....
The productions of a two weeks’ opera season
in Chicago amounted to $42,526.....Yellow
fever is raging at Rio do Janeiro.......The
Empress of Austria was mourned three
weeks by the Russian Court......It is con-
sidered that the annual products of the
honey bees of the United States reaches
$8,000,000......General Sheridan is going to
publish a military book......George Francis
Train believes himself an elephant on the
hands of the Government......Mr. Froude
says he did not meet a single vulgar person
in America......A Japanese has been made
a deacon in the Baltimore Methodist Con-
ference.......The King of Siam, the Mikado
of Japan and the Shah of Persia take interest
in the American forth-coming Exhibition.
......Rev. Newman Hall designs visiting
America......Mary Queen of Scotts, it is said,
is to be made a Saint......There is an “Alex-
ander Dumas” association in Boston.......
Finding Livingstone and fame has cost
Stanley $1,500.......A school for teaching
girls house-work is to be opened in Boston
by Jennie Collins......A Massachusetts man is
said to make $2,000,000 worth of chairs annually.
......The new Catholic Cathedral to be built at
[new column]
Hartford, Connecticut, will cost half a million dol-
lars......There are sixteen public parks in London.
...The Senate Chamber at Ottawa is to have a bust
of the Princess of Wales.......Ristori, it is rumored,
will soon visit America again.......Oakes Ames
died at Boston on the 8th inst......The wife of
Governor Safford of Arizona has got a bill of divorce
from him......Science has long been engaged in
seeking to discover and make known the principle
of life, wherefore, whence and how it originates; but
it still remains an unfathomed mystery.......The
Prince of Wales likes Ireland and contemplates
another visit to it......Senator Stockton’s wife has
the reputation of speaking seven different languages.
......William Cassidy, editor of the Albany “Ar-
gus,” recently died from a clot in the heart twelve
inches long......They find statuary marble in Ver-
mont which is said to be as fine as any in the world.
.......There are no less than forty-nine bridges in
Providence, R. I.......A railroad is being built
through the Notch at the White Mountains.........
There are, as reported, twenty thousand pauper
children in London, who go to school.........The
Hoosac Tunnel, not yet completed, will cost $20,-
000,000.....Fifteen million of bricks will be made
in Lewiston, this season....Miss Emma Hubbard
has received the degree of Bachelor of laws from
the Michigan University......The Easter sermon,
in the Methodist church at Belpre, Ohio, was
preached by Mrs. Tracy Cutler this year..........
During the last year or two of his life, Louis Napo-
leon was very devout.


﻿THE TERRITORIAL FAIR.

	The following brief note from the Secretary of
the Deseret Agricultural & Manufacturing So-
ciety calls for a response from the various
Relief Societies, which we hope will be promptly
forwarded.  It is desirable that the ladies’ de-
partment of the forthcoming Fair should be as
well represented as possible, and reports are
solicited from the Societies that design contri-
buting to it, that proper arrangments for them
may be made in due time. Here is Elder
Campbell’s note:
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	In your interesting paper of the 1st, ult., the
Agricultural and Manufacturing Society issued
a circular to the Relief Societies throughout
the Territory, requesting their aid in contri-
buting to make the Territorial fair of 1873 a
marked success. President Woodruff and the
Board of Directors desire a report from each
Society that has taken the circular into con-
sideration, and that intends to contribute.
	They are requested to address the under-
signed,
			Robert L. Campbell,	Box	A.
						Salt Lake City.
Salt Lake City, May 8, 1873.


﻿A COMMON VICE.

	Is wastefulness a sin? If so, how very guilty,
in this respect, are Americans as a people!
Living has been so easy in nearly all portions
of this country, food so plentiful and so readily
obtained, that little or no care has been mani-
fested by the great mass of people, as to how or
whence it came. People are lavish of fuel,
lights, material for clothing, and, indeed, what-


ever is employed in keeping house; throwing
away in preparation nearly as much as is made
use of, and using twice as much as is needed of
almost every thing. Servants and children
follow in the footsteps of their masters and pa-
rents, and learn to waste and destroy enough to
support large communities, in good style, if
what is thrown away could be judiciously put
to use. Miserly covetousness is worse than
despicable; but to save and make some use of
the least article, even the smallest bit of rag
that may be ground up and made into paper, is
in no wise mean, but would be honorable in the
wives and daughters of millionaires as well as
of mechanics or laborers. The great Creator has
placed around His children the numberless
varieties of beauty and use, to cheer and glad-
den their lives; but not that they should become
idle and indifferent over them, by being abun-
dantly blessed with the good things of the
earth.
	In the midst of luxury we should seek to cul-
tivate simple habits, which are the greatest
producers of genuine happiness, longevity and
usefulness.  Children should be taught to be
less self-indulgent and more industrious than
many are; and women should at least superin-
tend their own households, and see that nothing
is left to go to waste, which might be beneficial
to some one of our Father’s creatures, if not to
themselves. No bread tastes so sweet as that
which is fairly earned; and no poverty can be
so stinging and mortifying as that which comes
of carelessness and extravagance.  Live pru-
dently and within your means, is an excellent
rule to hold to.


﻿PETITION FOR POLYGAMY.

	In this issue of the Exponent will be found
a petition purporting to be got up in Lowell,
Massachusetts, asking the Legislature of that
State to enact a law authorizing and legalizing,
under certain conditions, plural marriages.
From other newspaper sources we gather that
many of the signers of this petition are married
women, who, like Emily Faithful, see the con-
dition in which women are placed, and are
prepared to brave public prejudice in their
behalf. But apart from the reasons advanced
therein why such a proposition should receive
legislative sanction, there are still others
which might be most strongly urged. Evil
courses are so common among young men, es-
pecially in large cities, that men of pure and
blameless lives are largely in the minority.
These young men are “sowing their wild oats”
—sowing a harvest that is to produce a crop of
evils, diseases, shattered constitutions, ruind
fortunes, blighted reputations. And when they
have lived lives of intemperance and ludness
for years, then they seek fair, young, pure, vir-
gin forms for their wives; they desire youth,
and purity to minister to their vitiated senses,
and propose to increase the number of diseased,
sickly inhabitants of the earth by their union
with chaste and guileless maidens. They do
not seek wives among those whom they have
dragged down to destruction; they could not
think of associating themselves permanently
with women whose lives have been at all like
their own; but having destroyed virtue, per-
haps at the outset, having rioted with vice and
become tired of ministering to gross sensuality,
they again seek spotless virtue to ally to their
licentious, depraved lives! Are such men fit
to become the husbands of pure women, the
fathers of children borne by pure women? Yet
society, as it exists in most places in Christen-
dom, gives millions of women no choice but
to marry such men or remain single. They
must crush out, or bury beyond human sight,


every holy aspiration, for wifehood and mater-
nity, or accept the hand and share the life of
men who have been steeped in vice until they
are saturated with it. We say must do so; for,
supposing the sexes to be equal at marriage-
able age, the minority of really pure men is
confessedly so great, that no alternative is left
to the majority of women but that we have
mentioned.
	Were the Legislature of Massachusets to act
upon, this petition no one would be compelled
to adopt plural marriage; but it would leave
those free to legally enter into such marital
bonds who desired to do so; and the result
would be an improvement in the morals of
society such as few imagine. It is not alone
that it would close many avenues by which the
“social evil” is now supplied; but when young
men would discover that purity in men was at
a premium among pure women, and that mascu-
line corruption and licentiousness were not con-
doned and overlooked, as at present, the very
instincts of their natures would prompt them
to cultivate a purity now as rare as it is com-
mendable when found.
	Has Massachusetts virtue enough to favorably
receive the proposition?


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS. 
	
	Two more interesting letters from Miss
Eliza R. Snow will be found in the present
number of the Exponent.
	The latest heard from the Palestine party,
Mr. F. Little and Miss Little had reached Lon-
don, on their way home; While President
Smith and the rest were en route to Vienna,
where they expected to arrive in time for the
opening of the World’s Fair, on May 1st.
	The present number closes the first volume
and the first year of the Exponent. The sup-
port which it has received during the past year
has been very encouraging, and its friends hope
that, during the year which will be entered upon
with the next issue, that support will be con-
tinued and increased.
	The Semi-weekly and express line, which
has but a short time been established and in
running order, between St. Charles, Bear Lake
Valley and Evanston, on the U. P. R. R., is with-
out doubt, a source of much satisfaction to the
inhabitants of that portion of country, which
has been so often and so long, comparatively
isolated.
	Where are all the girls and women whose
business it is to go to service in families? Can
it be that they are all finding homes of their
own to keep, either by marrying or by becom-
ing possessed of fortunes which enable them to
live like the “gentle folks?”  There are more
calls for female help in families than people
who are not supposed to have an acquaintance
with everybody’s business might imagine.
	Several communications, have been re-
ceived, which we are obliged to hold over for
want of space to insert them.  It is gratifying
that so many of the intelligent women of Utah
find pleasure in contributing to the Exponent
and filling its columns with useful and agree-
able reading matter; but the paper is too dim-
inutive for their wants, and once more we
solicit all its friends to assist us in the increase
of its circulation that means may be obtained
sufficient for an enlargement to be made.
	Pleasure Excursions and “May walks”
have been given to the young folks of some of
the schools and different associations, during
sunny days,within the last fortnight; and gen-
eral satisfaction seems to be the result with
both the children and adult participants. The
present month is the most favorable season for
[new column]
such times of recreation and enjoyment, as the
excessive heat of the sun, when Summer is here,
will render outdoor exercise less delightful.
	The kind of small-pox which has raged to
some extent for a considerable length of time,
in this city, seems to have been of a fatal
nature in most instances where it has appeared.
It has been the occasion of much regret and
sympathy, among others, to the friends of the
family of Brother James Bourne, three mem-
bers of which—his wife and two children—were
carried off by it within two weeks. There are
no accounts of the disease being extended at
present, and the excitement which it caused
has subsided; but caution should still be re-
garded as necessary, for prevention is much
better than cure.
	The two days’ Conference of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, held in the
new Tabernacle on the 3rd and 4th inst., accord-
ing to adjournment at the close of the April
Conference, was another occasion of beneficial
enjoyment for those Saints who were enabled
to attend. Among other interesting matters,
on Saturday, the 3rd, were presented the bonds
of the trustee-in-trust and assistant trustees of
the Church in place of President Brigham
Young, resigned. The bonds, properly signed
and delivered, were read; first that of President
George A Smith, trustee-in-trust, for $25,000,
with W. H. Hooper and H. S. Eldredge as
sureties. Each of the bonds for the assistant
trustees-in-trust were for $10,000, the principals
and sureties being as follows: John Sharp,
principal; William Jennings and John Sharp,
junr., sureties. Joseph W. Young, principal;
Robert Gardner and Daniel D. McCarthy,
sureties. John L. Smith, principal; Jesse W.
Fox and Robert L. Campbell, sureties. Le
Grand Young, principal; Joseph Young, and
Joseph A. Young, sureties. Joseph F. Smith,
principal; L. W. Hardy and Angus M. Cannon,
sureties. John Van Cott, principal; A. C.
Pyper and David McKenzie, sureties. E. F.
Sheets, principal; W. H. Hooper and Edward
Hunter sureties. Moses Thatcher, principal;
B. Young, junr. and Thomas W. Ellerbeck,
sureties. Amos Milton Musser, principal; J.
C. Little and B. Young, junr., sureties. James
P. Freeze, principal; Horace S. Eldredge, and
Lewis S. Hills, sureties. F. A. Mitchell, prin-
cipal; Joseph Woodmansee and H. W. Naisbitt,
sureties. Thomas Taylor, principal; John R.
Winder and John C. Cutler, sureties.


The greatest natural bridge in the world
is the Natural Bridge over Cedar Creek, in
Virginia. It extends across a chasm eighty
feet in width and two hundred and fifty
feet in depth, at the bottom of which the
creek flows.
	In an Illinois coal mine, recently, while
the workmen were “running a fault,” they
came upon a tree, supposed to be black
walnut, imbedded in the bed of coal, five
hundred yards below the surface, and from
two hundred to two hundred and fifty feet
from the mouth of the drift.
	Boston keeps within the city limits 2,000
cows. Milk for the city also comes from
other parts of the State, and even from
Maine and New Hampshire. There are
about 600 wholesale and 4,000 retail
dealers. Nearly 13,000 cans of milk, con-
taining in all about 97,000 quarts, are de-
livered daily.
	The ladies of the Woman’s Foreign
Missionary Society of Philadelphia in June
last undertook to raise $10,000 to buy Wood-
stock—a home and school for missionaries’
children in North India.  They have
accomplished their task, having raised the
sum needed.


[For	the	Exponent.
			A HAPPY MEDIUM.

	It happened to be my fortune, a few, days
since, to listen to an animated conversation
between two young persons of opposite sex,
in which the natural advantages of man and
woman were contrasted.  The subject was
practically introduced by a couple of uncon-
cerned pedestrians, a man and a woman,
passing along, and pausing to rest; the man
very leisurly seating himself upon a low
fence, while etiquette forbade his com-
panion to do otherwise, than stand. The
young man remarked the advantages, in
such a case, which a gentleman possesses
over a lady. The young woman observed
that such advantages had been created
merely by foolish tradition; that nature and
common sense had had nothing to do with
it She considered that a woman appeared
quite as respectable in any position of ease
and comfort as a man did; it was an un-
generous and unjust age which had recog-
nized such inequality, and any action which
would be improper or ungraceful in a
woman was also improper and undignified
in a man. The gentleman politely remon-
strated, saying that woman was naturally
more refined and chaste, in manner as
in disposition, than man could be; it was,
therefore, less becoming in her to throw off
that desirable attribute of which she had
inherited a double portion; entitling her to
superior respect and consideration, than it
was in man not to cultivate more assiduously
a quality which he had received in less
abundance. Yet, the lady argued, admit-
ting that in a measure her companion’s views
were correct, if independence in thought
and action could be applauded as praise-
worthy in man, why should not woman
seek to assimilate, in, as, much as man
was the acknowledged superior? It was
the brave, proud spirit of self-reliance and
self-discipline which woman found in man
to reverence and bow to.  Why should she
not strive to obtain the same, that her
powers might be no longer inferior, but
equal with man’s? The gentleman allowed
that she should, so far as she might do so
without laying aside that matchless, primi-
tive grace so peculiar to herself—that
clinging, confiding trust and gentleness
which, of all her attractions, was most ad-
mirable in the eyes of man, and rendered
her most endearing and sacred to him in all
respects. But man, he said, should also
cultivate, as much as possible—without
divesting his nature of the smallest noble
and manly characteristic—that patient, lov-
ing tenderness so largely possessed by
woman, that he might be enabled the more
readily to sympathize with her feelings and
enter into her anticipations and desires.
With this the lady agreed, saying, that in
the Lord, and in nature, the man was not
without the woman nor the woman without
the man; and if, while woman seeks to
overcome her whimsical vanities and be
more wise but not less womanly, man would,
endeavor to dispense with his prejudices
and become more charitable, all would, by
and by, work together in blissful conformity,
having reached a happy medium.
	Here the conversation dropped, but the
subject might be treated upon much more
fully, and is a good one for some of the
fastidious young gentlemen, and also ladies
of the day to reflect upon.
								L. L.


﻿There are forty-two ladies in the literary
departmentof the University at Ann Arbor;
medical department, thirty-seven; law de-
partment, four; total, eighty-three.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿[For the Exponent.
TO THE SISTERS OF THE RELIEF SO-
			  CIETY. 
			    ——
Sisters! let’s be up and doing, all our hands may
	   find to do,
Let us to the world be proving, to our trust we can
	   be true.
'Tis no light or trifling duty, 'tis no empty name we
	   bear,
The poor, the lame, the distant Saints, too, of our
	   time must have a share.

Let us not sit idly dreaming, while the precious
	   hours pass by,
Life with duties now is teeming let them not neglected
	   lie.
Let us seek the poor and needy, do them all the good
	   we can,
Knowing though each hour is needed, life at best is
	   but a span.

Let us seek to know each member, what they have,
	   and what they need,
Not alone their earthly comforts but to mental wants
	   give heed;
Some there are though having plenty,  yet are
	   stretched on beds of pain,
Wishing in their hours of anguish, some kind friend 
	   would “come again;"

And by words of love, and kindness, while the heavy
	  hours away,
Draw their thoughts from earth to heaven, till the
	  dove of peace holds sway.
It is thought a noble action, aiding sufferers in dis-
	  tress,
And to sooth the sick with kindness should be viewed
	  as nothing less.

Every good and worthy offering, always brings its
	  own reward,
“Every kind act to my brethren, is done to me,"
	  saith Christ the Lord.
Let us ever strive to walk in footstep of the pure
	  and true,
That the light of God’s good Spirit, may illume life’s
	  journey through.
						     MRS. A. RANDALL.
SPANISH FORK, April 22nd, 1873.


CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.
			    ——
	Damascus, Syria, March 17, 1873.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
 In my last I left you at Nazareth.  Our
encampment was near a Greek Church, and
the next day being Sunday, soon after sun-
rise, I strolled in the direction, and seeing
the people gathering, went in where a large
congregation appeared devoutly worshiping.
Unlike the Roman, the Greek Catholics
perform their services in the language un-
derstood by the people, in modern Greek,
and the difference in effect is strikingly
visible in the countenances of the congrega-
tion. After listening some time to services,
to me unintelligible—witnessing the usual
ceremonies of kissing the picture of Jesus
and his mother—sprinkling with “Holy
water” and kneeling and bowing before the
cross; and seeing no one but myself in
foreign costume, lest my presence should
be intrusive, I withdrew, feeling thankful
to God for the gifts and ordinances of the
Everlasting Gospel—particularly that of
baptism for the dead.
  In my preceding letter I mentioned the
dirty streets and dreary houses of this city;
and while in the church, I noticed, as I
have frequently done, what seems to be
general characteristic, i. e., the appearance
of personal cleanliness being in contrast
with the intolerably negligent and uncom-
fortable looking houses the people occupy;
this with both Turks and Arabs, but
particularly the latter. I have, in a great
many instances, seen men dressed in white
from the waist to the ancle; and women from
the top of the head to the feet (and it was
really white) come out of the most untidy
and forbidding appearing dwellings; huts
made of mud with a small opening for
entrance, and entirely without windows—
groups of women in white seat themselves
on the ground, which they do as readily as
[new column]
﻿we do on chairs and sofas, and yet look as
clean as though the soil of earth was not
adhesive.
  But a spectacle of a different kind was pre-
sented before me while at Nazareth.  A
short distance from our encampment, were
a large company of Armenians on pilgrim-
age to Jerusalem, some of them partially
tented—others grouped in squads under the
precarious shelter of projecting rocks at the
foot of a ledge that lined the mountain side.
  They were forty days from Armenia;
their appearance was deplorable. Prompted
both by sympathy and curiosity, I walked
into their midst and the closer view in-
creased my heart ache for poor degraded
humanity! Old, middle aged, and young,
down to the little infant, miserably clad,
and truly the personification of filth. The
sight was a sad picture, for the expression of
their faces corresponded with their outward
condition. Their cooking utensils were few
and simple, and what I saw of their food,
seemed less comfortable and sufficient than
their clothing. But, whatever might have
been the difference in circumstances and
motives, these poor Armenians held one
object in common with us—we were coming
from—they were going to Jerusalem.
  Monday morning, the 10th of March, we
left Nazareth, passing over the hills and
plains of Galilee; saw many of the wander-
ing Arabs, or Bedouins, who live in movable
habitations, and change from place to place,
as suits convenience, for grazing and agri-
cultural purposes. Many of them have large
herds of sheep, goats and cattle; cultivate
the ground to some extent; and raise wheat,
barley, beans, and sometimes other vege-
tables. Their houses, or rather tents, are
constructed of flags made into long plats,
similar to rush window blinds, but of a much
coarser and stronger texture, and sufficiently
wide for the height of the building. These
are set upright in a square form or other-
wise to suit the taste or convenience of the
occupants, and covered with a very coarse
kind of haircloth which is said to be imper-
vious to water. These tents can be taken
down at pleasure and rolled in packages for
transit. Sometimes large villages are built
in this manner; we passed through one,
quite extensive, with some of these build-
ings in course of erection. I noticed several
large ones that were connected together in
line, making a long row, in front of which
were several large soup kettles, and the
apartments seemed to be filled with occupants
—every appearance indicated a community
style of living. I was quite amused with a
churning operation. The cream or milk,
whichever it might be, was confined in a
goat skin which was placed on a rudely
constructed swing, out of doors, and a 
woman was keeping it in motion, back and
forth. These Arabs are apparently of a
lower grade, and are much less cleanly in
appearance than those who live in mud
huts. In going by rail from Alexandria to
Cairo, we found the country dotted with
mud towns and villages. We passed
through one of very small extent, said to
contain twenty thousand inhabitants. It is
very surprising to see how compactly these
people are stowed in their small houses, and
how closely the houses are huddled together.
  I now leave you on the beautiful Sea of
Galilee—a place of more than ordinary in-
terest in Bible history.
					    Eliza R. Snow.


BEYROUT, March 24, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:-
	Aside from the deep interest with which
sacred history clothes the Sea of Galilee, it
is beautiful.  We camped within the walls of
[new column]
﻿Tiberias, a small town, situated on the sea
shore, As I walked along the edge of the 
water, a young daughter of Judah came—
filled a large earthen jar with sea-water—
placed it on her head, according to the
usual custom, and started home. Prompted
by her gracious and friendly greeting, I
followed, and by signs (How much bother
that confounding at Babel has occasioned!)
made her understand that I wished to
accompany her home. She seemed pleased,
and on entering, set her jug down in the
front room, and leading the way into the
second and only remaining one—which was
parlor, sitting and sleeping room, as I under-
stood by being shown where the mats for
lodging were deposited—she introduced me
to an elderly woman who received me very
cordially. The room was very small and
neatly spread with rush or flag rugs over
the earth floor. The two Jewesses motioned
for me to follow them through a small open-
ing—the only one except the door—into a
little garden containing a few “potatoes,”
one or two low trees, a few shrubs, mint,
etc. I had some pretty wild flowers in my
hand, which the young lady threw down
very significantly, at the same time plucking
and presenting me green branches from the
most flourishing shrub in the yard—to this,
although destitute of fruit and flowers, they
seemed to attach a great deal of consequence.
The garden, or yard, had no egress but the
one through which we entered, consequently
we crawled back into the house, when the
young Jewess took me across the street into
another house where we found a neatly
dressed Jewess, with but one room, and I
think at least one-third of that was appro-
priated to donkeys, their portion being
defined by a narrow ditch, which served as
a trough, in which they were feeding. She
was tending an infant, and rising, saluted
me politely and urged me to occupy her
stool which was the only seat present. The
floor was hard, smooth ground, destitute of
carpet or rug—an iron tripod about five
inches high was standing over a fire in the
lady’s portion of the room, on which some-
thing was boiling; and, although whatever
smoke existed, must have circulated through
the room, it was not perceptible. Despite
all of the peculiarities, there was an order
and an air of neatness in this house that
really surprised me. I give these descrip-
tions as samples—these houses appearing to
be about the average type. The population
of Tiberias is mostly Jews, and it has the
distinguishing honor of being the cleanest
town in Palestine.
  The next day President Smith, Professor
Carrington, brother Jennings and two
American gentlemen traveling with us,
wishing to enjoy a boat-ride on the sea, were
rowed across to the mouth of the Jordan,
supposed to have been near the locality of
Chorazin and Bethsaida, while the rest of
the party preferred riding on horseback to
the place of destination, occupying two
hours along the sea side. We passed the
ruins of Magdala, said to be the place where
Mary Magdalene formerly lived, and pre-
ceded the boaters nearly four hours. In
the mean time, Miss Little and myself took
a sea-side walk in search of shells for our
friends at home; but after promenading the
shore and scrutinizing the water’s edge for a
long distance, pronounced it a failure—
selected a few pebbles and returned to camp,
tired, if not fatigued..
	Of the Sea of Galilee, I shall probably say
more hereafter. At this point the snow-
crowned Mount Hermon is in plain sight,
the spur of which we traveled over on the
14th after encamping at Banias, the ancient


﻿Caesarea Phillipi the preceding night.  We
ascended to the height of five thousand feet,
over the roughest passes and trails imagin-
able—sometimes over rocks, apparently as
smooth as glass, and the greatest wonder
was, that our animals kept in standing posi-
tion. But they are trained to rocky, difficult
passes—they know but little of roads; this I
learned after leaving Damascus, from which
place to Beyrout is a splendid macadamized
road, on which between these two points,
the “Diligence” for passengers, and a mail
coach run daily. Until on this road, I had
not discovered that my horse was skittish,
but here—feeling out of its latitude, it was
afraid of everything, and although I had to
be all the time on the watch, I was much
amused; the rest of the animals manifested
in a greater or less degree the same strange-
ness of feeling.
  Before we reached Damascus, for a long
distance the way was lined on each side
with fields of grape- vines, apparently well
cultivated.   We rode through the city and
camped on an open square washed by the
beautiful river Albano; and the next morn-
ing I expressed my willingness to admit the
statement that Damascus keeps forty thou-
sand dogs—their noise in proof.
  Here as has been customary with the
party whenever consistent we had the Sac-
rament administered on Sunday.   Monday
we accompanied President Smith on a visit
to the sub-American Consul, N. Meshaka, a
native Assyrian, who spoke English toler-
ably.  He received us with marked kind-
ness—asked President Smith many questions
concerning our people—politics, religion, etc.
—spent an hour or more in earnest conver-
sation, and expressed himself much gratified
with the call which he returned in the
evening.   Before we left, an attendant
served to each a tiny cup of coffee contain-
ing about half a gill, which, as a national
token of friendship, courtesy prompted us
to accept.
					Eliza R. Snow.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
			    ——
  Poultry Keeping for Women.—There
are many women who, especially within
the last half-dozen years, while the price of
eggs has been so high, make money much
faster by tending poultry than by sewing.
It is an occupation especially suited to
women, because it involves patience and
constant details rather than strength.  Then,
again, the hardest thing for many men to
learn, in handling either poultry or bees, is
gentleness. How many times we have seen
boys, and men with no more sense than boys,
jerk hens roughly from their nests, enter
the poultry houses abruptly and frighten
the occupants till they rush into the furthest
corner, and keep the poultry community in
constant agitation and distress.   But all
domestic animals appreciate the manners of
female attendants, when they are fortunate
enough to be cared for by them. Now there
are women gardeners and florists who, by
commendable industry and business quali-
ties, have risen to eminence in these callings,
and while one of the most successful bee-
keepers in the world is a woman, we hope
to see others give poultry more attention
than it has hitherto received.   Aside from
profit, the keeping of fine poultry for fancy,
is elegant pastime, very popular with Eng-
lish ladies, and we see no reason why the
fashion should not be adopted in this
country.—Ex.
  Lemon Cheesecakes.—Simmer together
In a sauce-pan a pound of loaf-sugar, four
eggs, the juice of two lemons, and the rind
[new column]
cut very small. When the materials have
become of the consistence of honey, pour
into a jar and preserve for use.
  Lemon and Suet Pudding.—Take some
suet and cut it small, currants, sugar, grated
lemon-peel, ground ginger, eggs, and bread-
crumbs; mix them into a paste, roll them
into balls, tie up in a buttered cloth, and boil
them for twenty minutes.
  Sugar Biscuits.—Mix two pounds of
flour and the same quantities of powdered
sugar and good butter with nutmeg, cloves,
and mace. Make them into paste with some
milk or cream.  Roll into a thin layer, cut
into squares, prick them with holes, and
bake them on tin plates.
  Vienna Cream.—The whites of two
eggs, two ounces of red currant jelly, two
ounces of raspberry jelly, one ounce of sifted
loaf-sugar; put all into a bowl, and beat
until it rises into a thin froth; serve in a
glass dish or custard cups. Though of quite
a dark shade of red when beginning to whip
it, it becomes paler and paler as the froth
rises, and when finished is a very pale
shade of pink.    Apricot jelly can be used
also.
  Head Cheese.—Boil in somewhat salted
water the ears, skin, feet and a proportion
of the sides of the hog, till the meat drops
off or the flesh is quite soft. - Take out and
chop, not so fine as for sausage; season with
pepper, salt, cloves and herbs; mix well to-
gether, and put in a pot or vessel with a
weight on it. When needed, it can be cut
in slices and eaten cold.
  Removal of Ink Spots.—When of long
standing, it is difficult to get them out,
since the iron has become thoroughly per-
oxidized, and must be reduced. The follow-
ing recipe will be found worthy of trial:
Water, one pint; hydrochloric acid, seven
pennyweights.  Moisten the spot with this
solution thoroughly until the color disap-
pears, and rinse with water.
  Felon on the Finger.—Many persons
are liable to extreme suffering from felons.
These afflictions not unfrequontly oc-
casion permanent crippling of the mem-
bers affected. The following simple pre-
scription is recommended as a cure for the
distressing ailment: Take common rock
salt, such as is used for salting down beef or
pork; dry it in an oven; then pound it fine,
and mix it with spirits of turpentine in
equal parts; put it in a rag and wrap it
round the parts affected, and, as it gets dry,
put on more, and in twenty-four hours we
are cured—the felon will be dead. It will
do no harm to try it.
  Cancers are prevented from breaking
out and are scattered by the application of
Winter Green oil.
  To cleanse Closets, butteries, or other
rooms from foul smells, burn coffee, which
is also a disinfectant of contagious disease.
  A pretty window ornament is easily
made by placing in the interstices of a wet
sponge, grains of wheat, rye, peas or any
similar plant, and hanging it-up in the
window, where the plants will very soon
begin to spray out, and after a little
time you have a beautiful green, growing
ball suspended by a cord or ribband from
the top of your window frame.


﻿SEVERAL mercantile gentlemen of this
city, admiring the qualities of Miss Mary A.
Keyes as displayed in saving several of her
comrades at the late fire in Hanover Street,
have subscribed to give her a full mercan-
tile education.  This is equally creditable
to both parties.  “The tools to those who
can use them.”—“Woman’s Journal, Bos-
ton.


﻿WOMAN PRINTERS.
			 ——
The following from the New York Sun
of a late date, commends itself to all inter-
ested in woman’s work.  The point made
relative to women not being employed on
morning papers, shows the necessity for
women making work for themselves “at
case,” in which they would notbe compelled
to be out at unseasonable hours, nor be sub-
jected to a task which tests the strength of
the strongest men:
  “The subjoined communication not only
relates to a subject of abiding interest, but
it indicates that its author is in some dis-
tress:
  'To the Editor of the Sun.
  Sir: Will not the editor of the Sun give
employment to a few working women as
compositors, who desire to earn their daily
bread honestly, or some of the advocates of
working women who are continually preach-
ing but never practice what they preach?
Are we to starve because we have the mis-
fortune to be women?
  Please insert this, and possibly some one
of those publishing papers and advocating
the working women’s cause may give us
employment.
						Compositors.’
New York, April 26.
  We cheerfully make room for the fore-
going letter, and earnestly commend it to the
attention of all whom it concerns; but it is
impossible for us to give employment to its
authors.  The compositors of a morning
newspaper must of necessity be men.   All
the labor is performed in the night, and
extends to a late hour after midnight.
Women are not robust enough to bear this
sort of work; nor would it be convenint for
them to be going home so very early in
the morning.
  Our correspondent writes in an unjust
spirit. Those who advocate the cause of the
working women are under no obligation to
give them employment, unless it happens
to be profitable to do so.  The relations of
business and labor are not relations of senti-
ment or charity, and if a man thinks it
desirable that women should have a greater
variety of occupations he does not thereby
become bound to hire any number of women
as laborers when he has no labor for them-
to perform.  If there are any advocates of
women’s rights who contend for more than
justice toward women, those advocates are
mistaken.   All that society is bound to
afford any of its members is a fair and equal
chance in the battle of life; and. this is true 
of women as it is of men.”


There has lately died, at Florence, a lady
well known in the world of letters, though
more remarkable for the warmth of attach-
ment she inspired in men and women of
acknowledged genius, than for the fame of
her own intellectual gifts. Miss Isa Blagden,
the authoress of “Agnes Tremorne,” “The
Cost of a secret,” “The Crown of a Life;”
and many brilliant papers in “Fraser,” the
“Cornhill,” and “All the Year Round,” was
linked to Mr. Browning and his illustrious
wife by the ties of the closest friendship. She
nursed the poetess in her final illness, and
performed the same loving office for Theo-
dosia Trollope, to whose memory, as to that
of Mrs. Browning, grateful Florence has
erected a commemorative tablet. It may
be added that her charitable presence
gladdened the last moments of many obscure
sufferers, in the fair city where she lived
and died, and where she will long be
remembered as a conspicuous and honored
figure.


- WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MOZART. 
  	 	     —— 
  BY MRS. S. M. C. PERKINS.
			   —
   Translated from the French.
One day as Mozart was seated in his study,
in a profound reverie he heard a carriage
stop at his door. A stranger was announced
who asked to speak with him. 
	He was an aged map, very well dressed,
of noble imposing manners.  He said to the
composer:
	“I am commissioned by a great man to
come and find you.” 
	“The name of this man, if you please?”
said Mozart.
	“He does not wish to be known.”
	“Very, well; what are his wishes?”.
	“He has lost a very dear friend, whose
memory will be forever precious to him.
He wishes to commemorate her death, every
year, by a solem service, and he wants you
to compose a requiem for the occasion.”
	Mozart was deeply impressed by these
words spoken so solemnly, and by the air of
mystery that seemed to pervade the inter-
view. He promised to compose the requiem.
The stranger continued:
	“Put to this work your entire genius, for
you compose it for a connoisseur in music.”
	“So much the better,” said Mozart
	“How much time, do you want for the
task?”	
	“Four weeks.”  	
	“Well, I will come for it in four weeks.
What will be your price?”
	“One hundred ducats.”
	The stranger counted out the money upon
the table and disappeared. Mozart remained
plunged in deep thought for a few moments,
then called for pen, ink and paper and
began to write the requiem.  Notwithstand-
ing the remonstrances of his wife, he wrought
upon it night and day.
	But his body, already feeble, could not
endure this continual strain, and he finally
fell fainting at his task.  Then he was
obliged to rest. Several days after, his wife
sought to divert his mind from its sadness
by some playful remark.  He replied earn-
estly:
	“One thing is certain;  I am composing
my own requiem, it will serve to perpetuate
my own-memory.”
	In proportion as he wrought, his strength
diminished from day to day, and the
requiem advanced very slowly. The four
weeks were finally gone and the stranger
returned.
	“It has been impossible for me to keep my
word;” said Mozart, sadly.
	“Never mind,”said the man, “how much
more time do you require?”
	“I want four weeks more. The work has
inspired me with deeper interest than I
supposed, and I have given to it more study
than I intended.”
	“In that case it is right that I increase
the price. Here are fifty ducats more for
your pay.”
	In astonishment Mozart asked, “Who are
you?”
	“That is nothing to the purpose. I will
return in four weeks.” 
	As the stranger left the house, Mozart
called a servant and requested him to .follow
this extraordinary man and find out who he
was; but the blundering man soon returned,
saying that he could .find no trace of him.
	Poor Mozart had conceived the idea that
this stranger was no ordinary mortal, but was
one of his friends in the immortal world,
sent to warn him of his approaching death.
He applied himself with redoubled ardor to
his requiem, which he regarded as the most
enduring monument of his genius. He
[new column]
fainted many times at his toil. Finally it
was accomplished before the expiration of
the four weeks.
	The stranger came for it at the given 
time; but Mozart was dead.


﻿REFORM IN DRESS.
			 ——
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
   As an advocate for every principle ad- 
vocated for the good of mankind (and woman
kind,) I wish to say a word upon the already
well worn subject of woman’s dress. While
watching the toilet making of a young lady,
whose dressing room I was invited into, not
long since, I could not withhold the excla-
mation, “How can our Father be so merci-
ful! Why are we allowed to live at all,
when we tamper and trifle with the laws of
nature as we do?”  Yet the young lady
asserted, as nearly all fashionable ladies
will, that the prodigious roll which she
fastened upon her head was not heavy, and
that her corsets were not at all tight; and
as we walked down the street, it was
not the high heels and close fit of her boots
that made it painful for her to walk, she
never was able to walk with any comfort in
her life!
	I have reflected, that the very plainest
and neatest costumes worn by American
ladies at the present day, might be much
improved in comfort and convenience with-
out detracting from their appearance. If
half the weight of clothing that is now
generally worn, suspended from the hips
instead of the shoulders as it should be,
could be dispensed with, that would cer-
tainly be a great relief.   And, again; I do
not know of a style of dress in which a
woman can appear respectable on the street
if the wind is blowing.  We nearly all wear
skirts which are so broad and long that they
flap and switch about if we happen out
in a storm, and are not half as becoming or
convenient as more closely fitting garments
would be.   And these common suits are
quite as great a hinderance in working as in
walking.   Around the kitchen stove or
grate, particularly in very busy seasons,
such as washing-day, fruit drying and pre-
serving time, making soap, etc., everything
is in the way, and a woman’s dress, if she
isn’t all the while on the look out for it, is.
catching up every particle of grease and
dirt.
	I wish that some of our sensible leading
ladies, and some of our dressmakers would
take it in hands, and appoint a committee, if
necessary, to establish some- more suitable
and pleasing costumes for the kitchen and
the street than we have at present.
					COUNTRY WOMAN.


﻿A Young girl left Lowell, Mass., two
years ago, with $500 in her pocket, and
went to Kansas and turned farmer. She
could sell out her property, this day, for
$60,000.
	A girl of thirteen recently brought to
market at Americus, Ga., a 500 pound bale
of cotton, the result of her own unaided
labor, from the plowing of the soil to the
picking and ginning.


A HOUSEHOLD   TREASURE.
			   ——
Every Family should have a Washing Machine;
and there is none better—if as good—we truthfully
and earnestly consider, having had experience in
working and taken pains in observing several kinds,
as the Telegraph Washing Machine, which is
manufactured in this city, and sold by George God-
dard; to whom all orders concerning it should be
addressed, "P. O. Box 474, Salt Lake City.”
   We take pleasure in recommending this Machine
to the ladies of Utah, and advise them to prove its
superiority by purchasing and using it.
[new column]
TAYLOR & CUTLER, EAST TEMPLE
Street, have a Splendid Line of LADIES' DRESS
﻿GOODS, which will arrive about the first of April,
selected by Mr. Cutler In New York expressly for
this trade.
CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,	,	
Dealers in  Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Orders from the country solicited.
Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
General Agents for Woman's Exponent. 
H. WALLACE 
  Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city.. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
Z.  C.  M.  I.	
Retail Dry Goods Department

To meet the demand of an increasing business we
	
have added an essential addition to our

	RETAIL ROOM, 

wherein the most economical buyer can be suited.

It is our highest ambition to suit our various visitants

and purchasers, and to display our varied fabrics

regardless of purchase.		

	This department aims to suit the demands of all

whether in 

	DOMESTIC OR FANCY DRESS GOODS,

either by the yard or piece.
				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup’t.

			NEW CLUB RATES. 

 Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the Exponent and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication,- by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
up of the club -	-	-	-					$18	00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
up of the club  	-	-	-				 26	00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
Young, selling price, $2 50 	-	-				 34	00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
up of the club, and a superior first proof,
steel engraving of President Brigham
Young, handsomely framed, selling
price $4	-	-	-	-						48	00
Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief- Societies
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the Exponent.

