
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 38.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE, 1909.						No. 1.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
The Quinquennial............Romania B. Penrose	1
Relief Society Stake Reports: Beaver..............	2
	Uintah.......................................................	7
Notes and News................................................	2
Switzerland...............................Lydia D. Alder	3
Report of the National Womans Relief Society
	...................................Emmeline B. Wells	5
Reorganization and Party...........M. S. Dowdle	6
Two Secretaryships to be Filled.......................	6
Resolutions of Appreciation............................	7
In Memoriam of Martha M. Miller..................	7
Obituary...........................................................	7
Relief Society School of Nurses......................	8
A Mother Honored by her Children.................	8
Editorial:—A Great Day for Old People..........	4
	Birthday Party..........................................	4
	June Conferences and Reunions..............	6
	Editorial Notes ........................................	5
Poetry:—We Do Not Call Thee Chieftain.......
	..................................Sarah E.Carmichael	1
	I Will Answer for My People...................
	..........................................Ida Sutherland	1
Out of the Depths...............Margaret E. Canon	3
	Life’s Milestones.......Emmeline B. Wells	4


WE DO NOT CALL THEE CHIEFTAIN.
	We do not call thee Chieftain,
		We do not name thee King;
	We wreathe no brilliants for thy brow,
		No ermine round thee fling;
	And thou art crowned, but with the light
		That gilds the throne above;
	Thy lofty spirit’s wealth of power,
		Thy people’s clinging love.
	We do not call thee Chieftain,
		Thy cheek would flush to hear
	Eearth’s titles woven with thy name,
		And whispered in thine ear.
	As well presume to gild the sun,
		Or paint earth’s brightest flowers;
	We only call thee Brigham Young,
		We only call, thee ours.
	We do not call thee Chieftain,
		Let golden crowns be wrought
	For brows unhallowed by the touch
		Of soul ennobling thought;
	But thou—the, purest holiest prayer
		To listening angels flung 
	Is whispered when the people breathe
		The name of Brigham Young.
				SARAH E. CARMICHAEL.
Bowery, August 8, 1857.


I WILL ANSWER FOR MY PEOPLE.
“I will answer for my people” was the virgin
	monarch’s boast.
When flatterers bade her guard her life amid her
	armed host.
“My throne is based on England’s love, or her
	crown would worthless be;
And my sceptre well might tremble, were its
	guardian “Tyranny.”
’Twas well heroic maiden, that eagle glance of
	yore,
And well the grovelling sycophant might quail
	such tones before.
Yet I have heard a loftier tone, a nobler glance
	I’ve seen,
Then e’er decked earth-born majesty, or graced a
	courtly scene.
“I will answer for the people in danger’s, darkest
	hour,
I will answer for the people against each hostile
	power;
I will answer for the people, for their every care
	is mine,
And I ask no odds of mortal foe, my mission is
	divine.”


Such were the sounds that thrilled around when
	Zion’s Prophet rose,
Knowing the hearts that trusted him, would bleed
	for his repose;
And prouder, loftier, was his mien, aye, more
	than kingly, when
From all that vast assembly came as from one
	man. Amen.
Aye, answer for thy people, thou, their lion heart
	of truth,
Answer again, again, again from hoary age to
	youth,
We will not own another chief, nor brook an-
	other’s sway,
Until his voice shall will it so whose word all
	Saints obey.
August 1857.			IDA SUTHERLAND.


[Column 1]
		THE QUINQUENNIAL.
The International Woman’s Suffrage Alli-
ance Congress, held in London, April 26th
		to May 1st inclusive, 1909.
	The Quinquennial of 1909 is now a matter
of history and its pages will stand through-
out the ages as a red letter record. I have
attended the last two congresses and if the
improvement has been in the same ratio
from the first one the advance is amazing
and memorable. Only a brief and general
report can be given for even a concise notice
of each nation would result in a book.
	The ability that women have developed in
forming and working in organized bodies,
observing the strictest parliamentary rules
and maintaining perfect order is far above
that of many similar bodies of men where
they often descend to bitter criticisms and
personalities most unbecoming.
	The Congress of 1909 was held in St.
James’ Hall Gt. Portland St., London, April
26th to May 1st inclusive. St. James’ Hall
is a large, and handsome one, with a fine
gallery and platform. All around the gallery
were hung flags of twenty-one Societies. The
platform was occupied by the officers of the
congress, the same as last year except Mrs.
Rachel Foster Avery whose genial face was
missed by all who have had the pleasure of
her acquaintance.
	The President Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt
presided with her usual grace and dignity
and by her genial diplomacy avoided several
times the danger of a collision, when some
members showed signs of belligerence.
	The President’s address of over an hour in
delivery was a most masterly effort, full of
interest, wit and accurate knowledge of wo-
man’s work the world over. The work done
by the interpreters Madam Schirmacher in
French and Dr. Anita Ausburg in German
was most ably rendered. Not the least in-
teresting fact noted was the great number of
representatives of different nationalities
speaking and understanding the English
language.
	Truly the Key was turned and the door
opened for the emancipation of women by
Joseph Smith the Latter day Prophet, March
17th, 1842, when he organized the first Re-
lief Society. Six years later, 1848, was the
next organization in all the world having for
its object more freedom for women. It ap-
pears a foregone conclusion that the twen-
tieth century will not have vanished into the
past until freedom unto both men and women

[Column 2]
will be a gift of heaven fully realized. The
capacity of women to get down to hard and
tedious public work and to stay with it until
completed was thoroughly demonstrated in
this last convention. It took three days to
revise the constitution. But it was finally
so well accomplished that it is hoped it will
meet the need and approbation of all na-
tions. A curious incident occurred during
the revision when it was moved by Russia
and seconded by Germany that when a reso-
lution was once passed there could never be
a reconsideration. I was about on my feet
to say if women were infallible and omni-
scient such a motion possibly might be in
order but until that time it seems safer to
have the opportunity to reconsider but Miss
Anna Shaw was on her feet first and expres-
sed the same sentiment, but not in quite
such emphatic words.
	The reports from the different countries
were most encouraging, some more so than
others but all showing that the rays of the
light of freedom are gradually penetrating
the pall of darkness which has for centuries
covered the people.
	Fru. Qvam, Representative of the Norwe-
gian Government brought from her Majesty
the Queen of Norway a gracious message to
the convention, expressing the hope that the
work of the International Woman’s Suffrage
Alliance would be for the good of the home
and the happiness of women.
	In Russia the women were permitted to
hold a successful congress of women in De-
cember 1908, but were surrounded on the
outside of the hall by a cordon of police and
they were also in the audience watching with
the utmost vigilance for a pretext to dissolve
and dismiss the assembly. The unconquer-
able and inherent love of freedom which is
Godgiven to every human being through his
free agency was exemplified in the coup the
women made as the finishing touch of their
congress. By prearrangement a member at
the very last moment arose and offered a re-
solution against capital punishment and
all arose in affirmative acclamation. The
police were so astounded by this bold move
that the assembly was dissolved before they
shouted for its dissolution. The President
simply replied Ah! it is already dissolved.
	Wednesday evening there was an official
dinner given at the Princess Restaurant, a
most palatial place which was an elaborate
affair both as to the dinner, the dresses and
the number in attendance. After nine
courses were served and the coffee brought
in a lady (?) at the table where I sat passed
some cigarettes, five or six women accepted
and, when one women from Sweden asked a
British women if it would “be proper to
smoke.” she promptly answered “perfectly
proper” and they lit them and puffed away
like men. Not being asked if I objected to
smoking having refused the cigarette I
promptly placed my handkerchief over my
nose and mouth.
	A crowded reception followed, Mrs. Faw-
cett acting as hostess. Excursions, Lunch-
eons and Breakfasts were in evidence a part
of every day.
	Thursday evening after two arduous meet-
ings revising the constitution a grand pa-


[Column 1]
rade of women proceeded to the Royal Albert
Hall, the largest in the world where the Mi-
litant Suffragettes had invited the Delegates
of the Alliance, about 200 accepting the in-
vitation and were given the best boxes.
	The W. S. P. U. took this plan to explain
their methods and reasons for their militant
proceedings. Mrs. Pankhurst, Miss Chris-
tobel Pankhurst and Mrs. Pettrick Lawrence
were the principal speakers and were most
enthusiastically received and applauded dur-
ing their speeches.
	Two collections were taken and five thou-
sand dollars were realized for the cause.
	Near the close of the last session of the
Alliance the Chair suggested that motto for
the Alliance should be: “In essentials unity;
in non-essentials liberty; in all things char-
ity.” This was adopted and decided to be
written in the Latin language. The chair
also suggested that the unfinished business
be left to the officers and one delegate from
each country—it was moved by Miss Kra-
mers, seconded and carried.
	Mrs. Chapman Catt then thanked the retir-
ing officers for their untiring work and abil-
ity and all the members of the meeting. She
concluded by quoting the memorable sent-
ence: “If we make a long pull, a strong pull
and pull altogether, we shall secure the en-
franchisement of the women of the world for
all generations to come.” Then the public
meetings of the great Quinquennial were
concluded.
	May 3rd. The officers of the Alliance and
representatives of twelve countries met at
25 Victoria St. S. W. and decided upon the
Alliance colors which were to be white and
gold. An International Hymn was decided
upon which is as follows:
	THE WOMEN’S BATTLE SONG.
		Forward, sister, forward!
			Onward ever more,
		Bondage is behind you
			Freedom is before
		Raise the standard boldly,
			In the morning sun;
		’Gainst a great injustice,
			See the fight begun.
				Chorus:
		Forward, forward sisters
			Onward evermore!
		Bondage is behind you
			Freedom is before.
		Women’s hands have labored
			Giving love and life
		Yours is now to follow,
			In the glorious strife.
		Lift the burden gladly
			Strong in right and youth
		Victors, wreathes must crown you
			Naught can conquer truth.
				Chorus:
			Written by Mrs. Flower Mills.
	It was decided to arrange a competition
for the music for the hymn, the music to be
sent to the National President of each
country. It would be fine if musical Utah
could furnish it.
	It was decided by this committee to ac-
cept provisionally the invitation for a Mid-
summer Convention in Stockholm, Sweden,
in 1911. Both countries being free to with-
draw. An invitation from a Viennese com-
mittee for 1913 was accepted on the same
terms.
	In conclusion it is to be noted that this
wonderful congress of women composed of
almost world wide representatives was char-
acterized by the most complete order and
unanimity of work for the good of all and
was so comprehensive in scope as to link

[Column 2]
many nations into a unity of action and pur-
pose.
	It pressed the conviction to the hearts of
all united in this cause that to work with
renewed vigor and diligence and wisdom
that finally the fullest fruition of its mission
will be accomplished.
				ROMANIA B. PENROSE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
			BEAVER STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Beaver
Stake convened at Relief Society Hall,
Beaver City, Friday, May 14, 1909, at 10 a.
m. and 2 p. m. There were present Pat-
riarch George Mumford and Stake Clerk
William G. Bickley.
	President Cedaressa C. Shepherd presided.
	After the opening exercises and roll call
reports were given by the presidents of the
ward organizations, who expressed them-
selves as deeply interested in Relief Soci-
ety work.
	President Shepherd reported the visits of
herself and other members of the board to
all the wards in the stake, which with the
exception of one, were found to be in a live,
active condition.
	Stake Counselor Harriet Fotheringham
gave an interesting account of her four
years’s mission in St. George Temple, and
urged the sisters to interest themselves more
in the beautiful, noble work, either by going
themselves or sendiug means that others
might be able to do it.
	An interesting and timely lecture entit-
led “Keep Holy the Sabbath Day,” was
given by Sister Bradfield of Minersville.
Vocal solo, Sister Maggie Easton, of Green-
ville.
	Sister Jane W. Bickley had enjoyed the
remarks this morning, and thought the say-
ing of our Savior was verified this morning
that where two or three are gathered togeth-
er He also would be there. Said the moral
taught in the lecture was indeed timely.
Let us as parents set the example and our
children will follow. Sister Doressa Robin-
son spoke in the interest of the Primary as-
sociations, and encouraged parents to bring
their children and visit themselves to see
what is being taught their children.
	Sisters Lightner, Agnes Hutchings and
Annie Vincent bore their testimonies to the
great good of this benevolent cause, and
were thankful to be workers in the same,
gave words of encouragement to the sisters.
	Brother William G. Bickley said he
believed that these conferences helped to
warm us up to our duties and made us
stronger and more faithful to the work, also
spoke on the beauties and wonders of the
Gospel. Encouraged all to work with a
will, to gain the blessings given to the
faithful.
	After singing and prayer recess was taken
until 2 p. m.
	At the afternoon session the same officers
were present and a large attendance of
members.
	The roll showed all the wards but one
represented. Statistical and financial reports
for the year 1908 read. General and Stake
Boards sustained. Vocal solo, Sister Mary
Fernley.
	Sister Nancy Rollins reported the Mur-
dock Academy branch, had only thirteen
enrolled, but thought when school started
again they would be able to do a good work.
Stake Counselor Mary A. White made inter-

[Column 2]
esting remarks on our duties as officers and
members, also on having love and charity
for all, and the training of our half-grown
girls, and gave words of encouragement to
the young mothers.
	Recitation, “Fulfilling of Prophecy,” Sis-
ter Betsy S. Goodwin. Sisters Mary Morris,
Irene Farnsworth and Mary Frazer, Eliza-
beth Robinson and Ellen M. Skinner, each
made a few remarks relating to Relief
Society and temple work. Patriarch George
Mumford had been much pleased with the
spirit manifest today and to see all so willing
to help this work along; he had been visit-
ing every Sunday morning (with some of
the Relief Society sisters,) the aged and
infirm sisters who could not attend meetings
and administering the sacrament to them
and had indeed been well paid by so doing.
	Reading, “The Glory of Motherhood,”
Sister Mary Green. President Cedaressa C.
Shepherd expressed her pleasure at having
had such a successful conference and felt
that we had received much that would en-
courage us in our duties.
	Prayer, William G. Bickley.
		CLARISSA E. PARKINSON, Secretary.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Syracuse University last week conferred
upon Mrs. Belya A. Lockwood the degree of
Doctor of Laws.
	“Dr. Dora Martin, of Oklahoma, National
organizer of the Anti-Cigarette League, re-
turned from Panama, where her work was
highly commended by government officials.”
	Mrs. Haslam, who attended the recent In-
ternational Suffrage Congress in London as
a fraternal delegate from Ireland, pointed
out that every time a woman’s suffrage bill
has come up in the House of Commons
since the first one introduced forty years ago;
by John Stuart Mill, the majority of the
Irish members have always voted in its
favor.
	Of the five women who received their de-
grees from the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology at the recent commencement,
four were graduated from the department of
architecture. Miss Mabel K. Babcock of
Wellesley Hills, Mass., the only woman who
received the M. S. degree, is a B. A. graduate
from Wellesley College, and she took the B.
S. degree in architecture last year at Tech-
nology.
	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe was this week
given the degree of Doctor of Literature by
Brown University. Ex-Chief Justice John
H. Stiness, a member of the University
Board of Fellows, was interviewed on the
subject. He said: “It was the consensus
of opinion among the Fellows that Mrs.
Howe should be so honored. No woman of
our time has been more prominent in the
history of our country. Mrs. Howe has writ-
ten in ineffaceable characters the nation’s
hymn; a production which did more to stir
the masses, to arouse a spirit of patriotism
and to cause men to rally to the defence of
the country, than all the meetings that were
held to secure enlistments. The sentiment
of that hymn was burned into the hearts of
the people; it stirred men to valorous deeds,
and long after she has passed to her reward,
her name will be on the tongues of a grate-
ful and appreciative people. Mrs. Howe is
a great and noble woman, and, in honoring
her, Brown University honors itself.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OUT OF THE DEPTHS.
Lord God of hosts, Thou art
	A God of peace,
From all the woes of war,
	O send release.
We caunot trace Thy hand
	In this dark war,
For sin and cruelty
	Thou dost abhor.
Lord, Thou canst sin defeat
	In every form;
Canst still the wind and wave,
	Control the storm.
Thou canst reach forth Thine hand
	And quell all strife,
Out of the depths of death
	Bring hope and life.
As so we come, O Lord,
	In this dark hour,
And pray Thee manifest
	Thy mighty power,
And o’er all the earth
	Bid warfare cease.
Out of the depths we cry
	To Thee—for peace.
			MARGARET E. CANON.


[Column 1]
			SWITZERLAND.
	One can tell he is in Switzerland, as soon as
the first station is reached by the tones of the
bells, while those of Germany are heavy—a
ding-dong—those of Switzerland are light
and silvery of tone—a ting—a ling-ling, like
wedding bells or happy bells of welcome.
The trains, in coming or outgoing, in these
countries are announced by bells at the sta-
tions. It is interesting to note the gradual
change of architecture as we pass over the
boundary lines of countries, also the dress
and costumes of the people.
	In a mountainous country like Switzerland,
the height very materially influences the cli-
mate, the purity of the atmosphere being re-
gulated by the height above sea level. Apart
from the presence of manufactories, or other
sources of atmospheric impurity, the number
of bacteria steadily diminishes as we ascend,
until at about 1850 feet above sea level, they
entirely disappear. The mountain air fresh
and pure, is highly beneficial in its effects.
The frequency of rain in the mountain re-
gions is disagreeable and thunderstorms are
common on summer afternoons. The crest of
the Alps acts as a huge dividing wall be-
tween the Polar and Equatorial Winds, the
latter often depositing their moisture, in
rainfalls on the south side of the mountain-
range. The best known wind is the Fohn,
a warm south wind, which blows with great
impetuosity in East Switzerland, in the up-
per valleys of the Rhine, Limte, Reuss and
Rhone. It is usually followed by rain. It
is estimated that the Fohn blows seventeen
days in spring, five in summer and sixteen
days in autumn. Under its influence the
barometer falls rapidly, while the thermo-
meter rises; the atmosphere becomes thick
and oppressive; a dense haze envelopes the
mountains, finally a dangerous storm sweeps
over them. The local winds, prevailing on
the higher levels, should be observed by
health seekers; the regular morning-wind
always blowing down-hill, while the evening-
wind blows up-hill.
	The Swiss forests are but few in number,
and have little effect on the atmospheric
moisture, or the extremes of temperature.
In some parts of Switzerland, at the base of
towering snow-capped mountains, green pas-
tures and browsing cattle are to be seen, form-
ing a landscape picture of interest and beauty.
These extensive grassy slopes and pastures,
operate very much as forests do in other

[Column 2]
lands, producing a summer climate, warm
and moist. Switzerland is a land of health
resorts, those of Appenzell, and on the shores
of Lake Geneva being highly recommended for
sufferers from various ailments. The peaceful
scenes, pure air, and retirement from noise and
bustle, having much to do with improved
health conditions. The spiritual nature is
stirred. The majesty of God is made mani-
fest in the sublimity of mountains eternally
capped with snow. Perchance, in gazing on
yonder high peak, we behold Him seated on
his glittering throne surrounded by his glis-
tening court. The sky’s deep blue, seeming-
ly is the throne’s tapestry, on which the
changing clouds are weaving those gorgeous
pictures, where silence and solitude reigns.
Behold a great council is being held: those
lesser peaks rising afar are members, and
all await, his majesty, the Snow King’s
Proclamation, who is sole ruler of the fast-
nesses, glaciers and torrents so far removed
from the foot of man. The picture sublime;
you gaze at the eternal white city; with the
great throne towering in the midst. Thought
has flown far away; a glimpse of eternal
beauty thrills the soul, with a start, a sigh
we awaken, our eyes still resting on a scene
of Alpine splendor, though the king and
court have faded away.
	Tradition tells us that Switzerland was
first peopled by the Rhaeti, whom the Hel-
vetii, a Celtic tribe drove from the plains
into the mountains. They, in their turn
were conquered by the Romans B. C. 58,
by them also the Rheati were subdued in 15
B. C. The Romans made fine military roads
in different parts of Switzerland, from settle-
ment to settlement, a portion of which once
belonged to Gaul. Before the time of Con-
stantine the Helvetii had become extinct.
Helvetia, under the Romans had a flourish-
ing trade, which built up towns and cities.
A Romanic dialect is still spoken in some
parts of Switzerland. Hordes of Barbarians,
swept through the peaceful Alpine vales, in 
about 400 A. D. and occupied all of north
Switzerland, where German is now spoken,
and south Switzerland where Italian and
Romanisch are still to be heard.
	The Franks gradually subdued these races;
they took possession of the country, but
ruled through their officers, not living there
themselves. Christianity was introduced
during this period, monasteries were found-
ed, and dukes and counts were appointed
viceregents of the Frankish kings. After the
dissolution of the Frankish empire, the eas-
tern part of Switzerland was united with the
Duchy of Swabia, and the western part with
the kingdom of Burgundy. In 1032 the
German Emperors, on the downfall of Bur-
gundy, took possession of the country, gov-
erning it by their viceregents the dukes of
Zahringen. Great enmity existed between
them and the nobles of the fallen kingdom,
and they favored the inhabitants of the
towns, and themselves became the founders
of the new towns, Friburg, Bern, and Burg-
dorf. When the power of the emperors de-
clined, the nobles became ambitious of in-
dependence and filled their own coffers at
the expense of their neighbors. The country
people and those of the Swiss towns, to-
gether with the serfs, for protection entered
into treaties with the feudal lords of the soil.
At this time the inhabitants of Zurich placed
themselves under the protection of the then,
unimportant counts of Hapsburg, with whom
the “Three Cantons” of Uri, Schwyz, and
Unterwalden were previously allied. To Uri
and Schwyz letters of independence were
granted in 1231, 1240 by Emperor Frederick

[Column 3]
II. After Count Rudolph of Hapsburg be-
came emperor, he confirmed the independ-
ence of Uri, in 1274 but Schwyz and Unter-
walden continued subject to the Hapsburg
supremacy. In 1291, after the emperor’s
death, the Forest Cantons formed their first
league for their mutual safety and protec-
tion against the growing power of the House
of Hapsburg. Albert, Rudolph’s son, en-
deavored to make absolute his sovereignty
in these provinces, with the result that they
embraced the cause of the rival monarch;
they however were defeated by Albert, who
seems to have modified his treatment of
them. This was the period, to which belongs
the tradition of William Tell of which na-
tional hero no historic foundation is found in
the early histories.
	Albert was assassinated by John of Swabia
in 1308. The Hapsburgers were also op-
posed by Emperor Henry VII who conferred
a charter of independence on the Forest
Cantons. This was bitterly resented by the
House of Hapsburg, who sent a powerful
army against these Cantons, as they, after
the death of Henry had declared their ad-
herence to Louis of Bavaria, who opposed
Frederick the Handsome. At Morgarten this
army was destroyed in 1315. Later several
victories were won by the Swiss, which
caused the downfall of the proud Hapsburg
House. In an attempt to conquer Bern,
the Hungarian nobles were defeated. In
1354, eight independent districts formed a
confederacy which soon became powerful
enough to assume the offensive finally cor-
recting the hereditary domain of Hapsburg
from the dukes of Austria.
	In 1476 a decisive victory was won by the
Swiss, followed by another triumph in the
victory of Dornach. The Swiss independence
was formally recognized at this time, but
nominally they were attached to the empire
until 1648.
	Under the auspices of Zwingli the Refor-
mation was zealously embraced by a large
proportion of the Swiss people. Civil wars
followed on account of jealousies between
the Roman Catholic and reformed Cantons.
Disastrous and bloody conflicts followed.
By many individuals the invasion of the
French was resisted, but the vigor of the
nation was gone, and the Helvetian Republic
was founded on the ruins of the liberties of
the people.
	In 1803 Napoleon restored the cantonal
system, but the constitution was remodelled
in 1815, by resolutions passed by the Con-
gress of Vienna. A new federal constitution
was inaugurated September 12th, 1848,
since which time, tranquility, prosperity and
harmony have reigned.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


Ellen Key, the Swedish writer, author of
“The Century of the Child,” “Love and
Marriage,” etc., is one of the most discussed
women in Europe. Her “Century of the
Child” has gone through more than twenty
editions in Germany, and is still being read
thoughtfully by those interested in the train-
ing and education of children. This “mo-
dern apostle” was born amid the pine for-
ests of Sweden and brought up to read a few
books by the best writers, philosophers and
thinkers. When she was 19 her father was
elected to the Swedish Parliament and made
her his secretary. In the capacity she came
in contact with men of prominence, with
whom she discussed the questions of the
day.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	-	JUNE, 1909.


[Column 1]
A GREAT DAY FOR OLD PEOPLE.
	A wonderful day for elderly people was
planned by the “Old Folks Committee” for
the 29th day of June this year. The arrange-
ment was to entertain those over seventy
years of age North of Salt Lake as far as
Brigham City and South to Payson. From
this distance with the aged citizens of Salt
Lake City it made an immense crowd. It is
estimated there were 4,000 or more on the
Temple square, in the Tabernacle grounds,
and they certainly were royally entertained.
Every detail of the plan was carefully
thought out by the Central Committee, Pre-
siding Bishop C. W. Nibley in charge, and
the Ladies Entertainment Committee for
guests of honor were under the direction of
Mrs. Rebecca Nibley, the Bishop’s wife.
	The Relief Society Presidents of the four
Stakes of Zion in the City limits, took charge
of a certain number besides their own aged
ones in the matter of luncheon, and they
spared no pains or expense; everything in
the way of variety, all the delicacies of
the season were provided for the comfort,
pleasure and refreshment of the brethren and
sisters, who came from a distance as well as
those who live here.
	The Bishops of the several wards rendered
valuable assistance to the Relief Society, and
the young women and girls waited at tables,
and did all that was possible to gratify and
please the visitors, those venerable fathers
and mothers; and it is always a joy and
delight to minister to those who have toiled
so many long years, assuredly they deserve
consideration from the young and strong.
	The Tabernacle grounds were pleasant
and well shaded by the trees, and presented
a very beautiful picture, and the enjoyment
of old acquaintances in meeting was gratify-
ing and to witness these things would com-
pensate for any extra pains taken by the
Committee. The smiling countenances of
many of them as they greeted old friends
were something of a study.
	The services in the large tabernacle were
very interesting, and the music on the
grounds and elsewhere was of the very best.
The organ of course gave great delight to
music lovers, and the services were not long
enough to be tiresome. There were no dis-
turbances and no accidents to mar the day’s
pleasure.
	The railroad officials gave free transporta-
tion to the elderly people to and from the 
City and the street car company and auto-
mobiles and carriages were also at their dis-

[Column 2]
posal free of charge, and nothing was left
undone that would give added pleasure.
	Governor Spry and Mayor Bransford wel-
comed the visitors in the most gracious way
with public addresses in the Tabernacle, and
all who sang or who spoke were most kind
and considerate and lovely, but it was very
apparent that the congregation inside the
Tabernacle were specially gratified by the
address of President Joseph F. Smtth.
	It was quite evident that Brother C. R.
Savage was greatly missed, he was really the
“jolly old soul” who always knew just what
would be the fitting pastime of these unique
occasions.
	The flowers were profuse and beautiful
and there was no lack of courtesy and glad
welcomes all around.
	It was a most fitting celebration and all
who participated in any way, or who gave of
their means must feel they were honored in
bestowing honors on those worthy veterans
of the former days. No welcome that could
be extended is too much, or too good for
these blessed veterans who have grown grey
and feeble in the master’s service as most of
those who assemble on these annual oc-
casions have; many of them have left their
own dear native land for the Gospel’s sake,
and endured hardship and privation on sea
and land, yet continued faithful and true.
	Looking over an assembly of this kind
composed almost entirely of aged and some
infirm people is pathetic to say the least;
and to all who contribute to these entertain-
ments with means or by other service there
must be a sort of recompense in knowing
they have helped to make one day happier
and sweeter to those whose lives are nearing
the other shore.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.
		HANNAH C. WELLS.
	A small company of the relatives and
friends of Sister Hannah Wells met at her
residence in the 18th Ward in this city, on
Wednesday, June 9, by invitation of the
hostess to do honor to the lady on her 80th
birthday anniversary. There were present
President Joseph F. Smith and wife, Apostle
H. J. Grant and wife, Apostle Orson F.
Whitney and wife. Dr. Seymour B. Young
and Rulon S. Wells and wife of the quorum
of Seventy and most of the older members
of the Wells’ family and several of the younger
ones.
	Elder Junius F. Wells read a sketch of his
mother’s life giving many interesting inci-
dents, that were quite new to most of the
family; and giving also the information of
six generations of the Free family and de-
scendants in the Church, beginning with
Andrew Free who joined the Church in early
days and went up to Missouri and his son
Absalom Free, father of Hannah Free Wells,
and her son Junius Wells and his son Hugo
Wells and Hugo’s son Edward Wells, mak-
ing six generations in the Church, which is
rather unusual, in fact we do not recall any
instance of the kind though there may be a
number of them. Sister Hannah Wells spoke
briefly and as usual with her native humor,
which is quite natural in the “Free Family.”
	President Joseph F. Smith spoke feelingly
of the sketch of Sister Wells life written by
her son Junius for this special occasion, and
alluded to his own mother’s experiences
(Sister Mary Fielding Smith) that had been
recalled by hearing the incidents just read;
his remarks were appropriate and suggestive,


and it was a great pleasure to have him
present on this delightful occasion.
	Of Sister Wells own family, from the large
family of Absalom and Betsy Free her father 
and mother only Preston Free, Hannah C.
and Talitha Smith remain. Hiram S. Young
and Alonzo Young and wife, and nearly all
the Wells sons and daughters were present
to do honor to their Aunt Hannah on her
birthday anniversary.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith was a
special guest and the remaining wives of
General D. H. Wells were of the party Lydia
Ann, Susan H. and Emmeline B. Some
verses by Aunt Emm. Wells had been writ-
ten which she read, touched upon a rather
remarkable incident of Sister Hannah Wells
life, contained in the sketch read by Junius,
when as a child in a meeting of Latter-day
Saints she had the courage to offer herself
for baptism, though none of the older people
assembled there had opened the way, but
after the little child had been as it were in-
spired to lead them, the others followed her
example, this took place in Belleville, Illi- 
nois, in the year 1841.
	The daintiest refreshments were served to
the guests by some of the preety grand-
daughters of General Wells, and social con-
versation indulged in for a short time.
	It was a very enjoyable party and will be
always remembered by the younger members
of the family who were present when the re-
maining few of the “Aunties” have passed
to the other side.


LIFE’S MILESTONES.
TO HANNAH C. WELLS ON HER EIGHTIETH
	BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY, JUNE 9, 4909.
		“And a little child shall lead them.”
Today you pass a milestone on life’s way,
A golden one, so some wise-acres say,
And golden, too, we think that it should be:
For fourscore years, if one has lived so long,
Deserves to be proclaimed in verse and song,
And tribute paid in golden melody.
And you were born in June, the month of flow-
	ers,
The time of sunshine, and of golden hours;
Most fortunate has been your destiny.
They say ’tis lucky to be born in June,
For nature then with life is most in tune,
The adage is not myth or mystery
E’en as a child you knew the Shepherd’s voice,
The call met the approval of your choice—
You gave your hand glad tidings to obey,
Leading the others, who with one accord,
Declared their willingness to serve the Lord,
When little Hannah chose the better way.
And ever since that far-off, blessed time,
When you had listened to those words sublime
In the sweet innocence of youth,
And to the water’s edge for baptism went,
Surely an angel was from heaven sent
To guide your footsteps in the way of truth.
All thro’ the years of trial since that day,
However dark or dreary seemed the way,
You’ve bravely borne your part and stood the
	test,
And shared the joys of life’s true happiness,
And known the grace of sweetest tenderness,
With kindred souls, the choicest and the best.
And so we must in very truth declare,
No matter what we’re called upon to bear,
That golden opportunities are ours;
E’en though times scythe has snatched some
	friends away.
Whom we wonld gladly have with us today;
Yet we’ve been blest with many golden hours.
Let us acknowledge, then, assembled here,
In this grand company with right good cheer,
Blessings vouchsafed to us in youth and age,
Grateful to God our voices let us raise,
In song or prayer, giving His name the praise,
And turn lifs’s tablets to the golden page.
				EMMELINE B. WELLS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth and four of
her lovely daughters left Salt Lake City, ac-
companied by her husband, P. T Farns-
worth, Esq., for an extended trip abroad.
It will be a delightful change for her and
for the young ladies, who are all just out of
school, or college, some of them with sig-
nificant titles, B. S. and B. A. and so on.
They sailed from Montreal, after traveling over
the delightful Canadian country. We shall
miss Mrs. Farnsworth very much, because
she was such an active member of our Gen-
eral Relief Society and was always ready
and willing to do and to go whenever and
wherever duty called. We wish them a de-
lightful trip over the ocean and through
European cities and visiting historic scenes
and countries, and a safe return to their
beautiful home in this city.

	On the 10th of June the anniversary meet-
ing for the election of officers of the Utah
State Society Daughters of the Revolution was
held in the Woman’s Exponent office Tem-
pleton Building, the Regent, Mrs. Elizabeth
R. Wright, in the chair. Reports of retir-
ing officers of the year just closed were
given, showing some advancement had been
made and in social events quite enjoyable.
One regretable circumstance had taken
place, viz. the death of a valued member,
Mrs. Eliza Titcomb of this city; whose
demise while sojourning temporarily in
Southern California, had taken place. Mrs,
Titcomb had endeared herself to all the
Daughters of the Society, because of her
gentleness and sociability, although she came
among them a stranger from the East. The
newly elected officers are Mrs. Alice Merrill
Horne, Regent, Mrs. Emily H. C.Willey First
Vice Regent, Mrs. Julia F. Lund, Second Vice
Regent, Mrs. Clarice Y. Spencer Recording
Secretary, Mrs. Ella W. Hyde Cor.
Sec. Mrs. Mary E. R. Webber Treas-
urer, Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth
Historian, Mrs Lucy W. Smith Registrar,
Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall Chaplain. The
Society will meet for tbe term, September
16, 1909.

	A very delightful party was given by the
eldest daughter of Mrs. Catherine Brock-
bank to a few of her mother’s old friends
on the anniversary of her birthday at
the old home of the family in this city.
Mrs. Brockbank wore her wedding gown of
long ago and gave us some of the interest-
ing details of the event. There were some
of the dear old friends of her girlhood in-
vited. Miss Elizabeth Brockbank, the eld-
est daughter had not informed her mother
of this party until the time arrived, but
everything worked like a charm. Reminis-
cences of girlhood days were very entertain-
ing; when old friends meet the hours fly
quickly. Among the company were Sisters
Amelia McDonald Mary P. Young, Phyllis
H. Ferguson, Kate Johnson, Aunt Emm.
Wells, Emma S. Woodruff and others.

	Mrs. T. G. Webber gave a party for her
mother, Mrs. Charlotte F. Richards on the
afternoon of Saturday, May 12, 1909, at her
elegant home in this city. The guests were
dear old friends of her mother’s and they
were most delightfully entertained. Every-
thing that the hostess, Mrs. Webber, could
devise was done that her mother might en-
joy the companionship of those she had
known familiarly in the early days in the
valley, and some of the friends of her girl-
hood in dear old England had been bidden

[Column 2]
to the feast. Words cannot express the
pleasure it gives one advanced in years to
meet with those whom they have been
strongly attached to when the hearts were
young and spirits buoyant. The tables were
a picture with snowy linen, vases of delicate
flowers, and all the dainty china, cut glass,
and elegant silver, as well as the most appe-
tizing viands of great variety. At the head
of the table sat the lady in whose honor the
feast was given, next her Mrs. Samuel Rich-
ards and Mrs. Nannah Richards on the
other side, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, Mrs.
E. B. Wells, Mrs. Hannah C. Wells, and so
on. Other tables were filled with charming
women and lively conversation was kept up
—after retiring to the parlor, some lady
gave us music, and a few of these dear old
friends danced a little to the music as in the
days when they were young. Mrs. Webber
certainly gave her mother’s old friends a
great pleasure bringing those ladies together
who some of them had not seen each other
for years.

	Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry and Mrs. Emily
S. Richards left for Buffalo early this month
to attend the conference of Charities and
Corrections where Mrs. Dusenberry had been
scheduled for an address and appointed by
the Governor of Utah. From there they
went to Toronto to attend the International
Quinquennial Council and Congress, of
which so much has been said in the daily
papers. This International Quinquennial
was held in Berlin in 1904, when several of our
sisters went across to Germany and attended
its sessions. July 16, some of the leading
ladies of the International Council are ex-
pected to stop over a few hours in this city
en route from Seattle to the East, after
calling here, they will visit Denver and
Colorado Springs, Detroit and Chicago on
their way.


[Column 1]
REPORT OF THE NATIONAL WOMAN’S
		RELIEF SOCIETY.
To the Executive Session of the National
Council of Women of the U. S. held in
	Union City, Indiana, 1908.
Madam President and Dear Friends:—
	It is two years last April since we made a
report of this Society to the Council. We re-
gret that we were not able to take part in
the Executive Session at Jamestown. Never-
theless we do feel that the Council has been
in the past a very great incentive, and bene-
fit to all who have allied themselves with
this magnificent organization in which we
take a deep interest.
	We rejoice in the great work undertaken
by the noble women, who have participated
therein, and feel they are in the largest sense
benefactors of humanity.
	When the San Francisco disaster occurred,
soon after the Executive Session of the Council
in Toledo, Ohio, and in which our beloved
President, Mrs. Mary Wood Swift, met with
such an irreparable loss, (which we all sin-
cerely deplored, and deeply sympathized
with her and all who suffered), the officers
of our Society called a meeting at the head-
quarters and appointed a Committee at
large, and the same day the Relief work pro-
gressed so rapidly that on the same night
after the appointment, a car having been
put at the disposal of said Committee was
loaded with the necessary articles of food
and clothing and bedding, etc. for imme-
diate relief, and sent to the Red Cross Com-
mittee in San Francisco; and a telegram

[Column 2]
dispatched to the Mayor of the City appris-
ing him of the coming car with full particu-
lars; and our President received a letter of
acknowledgment from the Mayor himself. A
car load of flour was also sent soon after
from the Relief Society organisation of Bing-
ham County, Idaho. Donations were made
at different times later on by the Society
until there was no further need of help.
	When the famine occurred in China and a
call was made public, the National Woman’s
Relief Society in Conference assembled pas-
sed a resolution to send a car load of flour,
which was soon forwarded and word came to
the Governor of the State that it had been
received.
	Thus you will perceive our storing of grain
has been available for charity outside our
own locality, and domain.
	At the time of the great International
Woman Suffrage Conference in Amsterdam,
Holland, last June, a member of our Board
of Directors of the N. W. R. S., Dr. Romania
B. Penrose was appointed by the Governor
of Utah to speak upon Woman Suffrage in
Utah at the great Convention in Amsterdam,
which we very much appreciated and which
appointment the women of Holland seemed
to think a great honor. Dr. Penrose made
a telling address, which was received with
enthusiasm by the assembly, and was warm-
ly applauded. Our Society was desirous of
having a representative in Geneva, Switzer-
land, at the meeting there in October of that
year. We expected Mrs. Emily S. Richards,
who was traveling in Europe at that time
would attend that Council meeting, but she
failed to be there at the right time, which
we regretted very much.
	Aside from these important things our So-
ciety has been doing regular duty in all its
departments and in all localities and coun-
tries throughout the world where there are
branches established auxiliary to the General
Society.
	All the early members of the National
Council of Women know much of our Soci-
ety, its thorough organization and its careful
equipment for active service, also its aims
and aspirations. It is based upon the broad-
est fundamental principles of charity, bene-
volence and philanthropy, but it also inclu-
des in its curriculum, if one may use the
term, education in every line possible to be
undertaken outside of schools and colleges,
for the uplifting of womanhood and the rear-
ing of children.
	The N. C. W., through former reports
made to the Council, is aware of the depart-
ment of the School of Nurses, under the au-
spices of the Society, with competent women
physicians in charge, through which we are
able to get much charity service done as
practical training and giving the girls ex-
perience, which is helpful in our Society
work among the needy, and is of immense
benefit to the young women themselves, and
gives them a better and more systematic
preparation for wifehood and motherhood,
which are the greatest sciences of life for all
women, if they are to follow the first com-
mandment given in the Holy Scriptures,
viz: “Be fruitful and multiply and replenish
the earth and subdue it.”
	Along this line too is our Mother’s work,
which was clearly explained in our last re-
port, and is published in the Council Report
of Proceedings in 1906; since then the work
has developed and extended and become a
great blessing and help to mothers in their
home life, especially those who have not
had the advantages of schools and college
training, and whose days have been spent


in domestic employment in secluded places.
	More houses for meetings of our Society,
and granaries for care of wheat, etc., have
been built through efforts af the women of
these organizations in their respective locali-
ties, and libraries in the halls, and in some
instances help rendered to those who have
suffered from loss by fire, as well as other
misfortunes. In one instance in this city
a widow with several children dependent upon
her, had her home and household goods
burned. The Relief Society in that locality
raised the money to pay for one half of the
new building, and to make good the furn-
ture, etc.
	Some years ago the N. W. R. S. and the
Y. L. N. M. I. A. began collecting money
for an appropriate and commodious Woman’s
Building; it is now in course of erection on
Main Street, exactly opposite the Salt Lake
Temple, and it is expected the edifice will
be completed, ready for dedication and sub-
sequently for use very soon.
	Another pleasing feature we are glad to
mention is that one of our young men here
in Utah, who has studied abroad, has been
employed to paint for the Society a large
and magnificent portrait of our General Pre-
sident, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, and of
the General Secretary, Mrs. Emmeline B.
Wells, and of Mrs. Jane S. Richards, first
Vice President of our Society for thirteen
years with Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Presi-
dent. Mrs. Richards is well known to the
Council through attending the Triennials of
the Council and Executive sessions, and also
the Congress of Representative Women held
in connection with the Columbian Exposition
in 1893.
	In closing we must record the death while
in active service for the Society, on a mis-
sion of importance some distance away, of
one of our Board of Directors, Mrs. Elizabeth
J. Stevenson. It may truthfully be said of
her, she was diligent in season and out of
season, untiring in activity, wise in counsel,
and full of devotion to God, her religion and
her adopted country, (for she was born in
the Isle of Jersey, but came to America and
to Utah when a young girl in her teens).
She was an earnest and zealous advocate of
equal suffrage, and stood firm for the best
and highest education for all. Though we
mourn the loss of friends and comrades, we
are fully assured that Mrs. Stevenson has
gone to her rest and her reward is sure.
	Our Delegate, who is also Proxy for the
President, will be able to make any explana-
tion that may be required concerning our
Society, of which we are so justly proud, and
we bid the Council God speed in their good
work, the best interests of all concerned.
	With greetings from the President and of-
ficers of the National Woman’s Relief So-
ciety,
			Respectfully submitted
				EMMELINE B. WELLS,
					General Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	REORGANIZATION AND PARTY.
	On the 6th of February, 1909, the Relief
Society of Newton Ward, in Benson Stake
was reorganized. Sister Martha Beck, who
had been President, for over twenty years.
resigned, feeling that her age, cares and
duties were too much together with the Re-
lief Society.
	Sister Bessie Ballard was chosen as Presi-
dent, with Sister Hannah Hansen 1st and
Mary Dowdle 2nd Counselors, with Eliza-
beth Funk retained as Secretary, and Mary
Jenkins retained as Treasurer.

[Column 2]
	On March 17, 1909, the Relief Society
held its reunion and in connection a sur-
prise on our retiring president, Sister Beck,
Secretary Elizabeth Funk and Treasurer
Mary Jenkins.
	At eleven o’clock the ward meeting house
was filled with brethren and sisters. During
meeting a program was rendered, after
which Sister Beck was presented with a
lovely, upholstered leather rocker. Sister
Funk a gold watch and chain, and Sister
Jenkins with a dainty silver tea set.
	To say that the sisters were surprised is
putting it mildly.
	The presentation speech was made by Sis-
ter Dowdle, which we will include here to
show the esteem in which our sisters are
held.
	Sister Beck, we the members of the New-
ton Relief Society have met today to show
our appreciation to you as a retiring officer.
You have battled the waves for twenty
years or more, and through your diligent
work, your faith and courage, we have
learned to love, honor and respect you; as
the years have passed the ties of friendship
have grown stronger. Your life has been to
us worthy of emulation, your name will
ever be revered among the sisters of the
Newton ward, for the wise counsel, the ten-
der ministrations to the sick, the words of
comfort and consolation among the needy.
	In years to come wherever your lot may
be cast, we all desire and crave a link in
your already long chain of friendship, and
ask heaven’s choicest blessings upon you,
that your friends may increase and that you
may want for nothing,
	Sister Beck in behalf of the Newton Re-
lief Society, I present to you this chair.
Take it and use it, and be as happy as your
days will allow, and as the days come and
go and you sit rocking in the twilight think-
ing of the days that are, and the days that
were, let them be seasoned with thoughts
of the givers.
	Be assured that we will be ready at any
moment, either as a body or as individ-
uals to come at your call.
	Sister Funk and Sister Jenkins, we are not
prepared to have you sit in rockers at the
present time, although you have worked to-
gether with Sister Beck the same number
of years, we feel that your help in the Relief
Society is too valuable to dispense with.
But we desire to present to you a small
memento for your faithfulness in the past,
and ask that you do not measure our love
for you and your service by the cost of the
presents, but accept them as a part of our
appreciation for your service, and ask that
you think of us as your friends and co-work-
ers in this association.
	After the program had been rendered a
dainty lunch was served, after which games
and visiting was enjoyed till evening. The
days’ enjoyment was finished in the evening
by a dance for all married people.
				M. S. DOWDLE.


JUNE CONFERENCES AND REUNIONS.
	The Annual June Conference of the Y.
L. & Y. M. Associations is always an occa-
sion of special interest and calls for not
only the conferences held separately and
unitedly, but many visitors from the Stakes
of Zion both those near to Salt Lake City
and quite remote in other states and terri-
tories and some from cities in the East and
West as well. It is a beautiful time of year
for enjoyment, and this June there were so
many things planned for the enjoyment of


the young people that it is quite impossible
to mention all. The reunion at Granite
Stake Tabernacle was one of the largest so-
cial gatherings and was very delightful.
One could meet there old friends from far
away, and the atmosphere and spirit of the
gathering must certainly exert an influence
with those workers in this grand undertak-
ing that will permeate the hearts of all who
had the opportunity of attending, and will
we hope and trust reach the homes of the
members who are a long distance away that
they, too, may partake in a measure of the
genuine spirit of social uplifting, that will be
vastly helpful in the Herculean work that is
being done among the youth of Zion. To
those who witnessed the beginning of this
seed planted by President Brigham Young
nearly forty years ago now, it is something
marvelous how it has spread and what its
fruits have been. Would it could reach all
the sons and daughters of Zion.
	The General President and officers of the
Primary Associations held annual Confer-
ence about the same time of year, and this
year seems to have been the banner confer-
ence of this wonderful organization. The
systematic way in which the Primary plans
and carries on the work among the children
is truly delightful. In addition to the meet-
ings, the Presidency had a reunion in Whit-
ney Hall, and the workers from long dis-
tances were entertained with fine music and
games of various kinds in which they them-
selves took part, and they were honored by
the presence of President Joseph F. Smith
and President John R. Winder and some of
the Apostles, who seemed to enjoy the diver-
sion of Kindergarten games and guesses as
much as those who engaged in them. The
president, Sister Louie Felt, who was chosen in
June, 1880, has certainly displayed remarkable
talent in carrying on so great a work suc-
cessfully,  She has able assistants, certainly
but her impressive presence and her dignity
of demeanor is an inspirafion to her able
corps of workers all throughout the land of
Zion. The name of Louie B. Felt and of
Aurelia S. Rogers (who first originated the
idea of this now mammoth organization) will
be engraven in the annals of Church history
and cherished forever throughout Latter-day
Israel.					EDITOR.


TWO SECRETARYSHIPS TO BE FILLED.
	Miss Kate N. Gordon asks us to announce
that she will not be a candidate for re-elec-
tion as corresponding secretary of the Na-
tional American Suffrage Association at the
coming National Convention in Seattle. Her
local work in New Orleans is constantly
making greater demands upon her, and she
feels that she can no longergive the needed
amount of time and strength to the national
correspoding secretaryship. This will be
much regretted; but Miss Gordon gives us
to understand that her decision is final.
	Miss Alice Stone Blackwell also gives no-
tice that she will not stand for re-election as
recording secretary.				Ex.

	Harvard has always thought it beneath its
dignity to confer a degree on any woman,
no matter how distinguished. Brown has
already honored four women in this way.
Sarah Elizabeth Doyle was given the degree
of A. M. in 1894; Julia Josephine Irvine,
president of Wellesley College, was made a
Litt. D. in 1895; Adelia Thompson Hillman
was giyen an A. M. in 1898, and Caroline
Hazard, president of Wellesley, was made a
Litt. D. in 1899.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RESOLUTIONS OF APPRECIA TION.
	Whereas our former president and fellow work-
er, Sister Melissa Olson, has moved from our com-
munity, and
	Whereas, circumstances have arisen which nec-
essitate her absence from us for an indefinite per-
iod, and
	Whereas she has seen fit to resign her position
as president, and
	Whereas, she has always been a diligent and
faithful worker, it is fitting that we, the members
of the Relief Society of Fillmore, record our ap-
preciatioa of her work among us. Therefore, be
it
	Resolved, that we tender her a vote of thanks
for her labor among us, and be it further
	Resolved, that by purity of life and conversa-
tion, by kindness of spirit and grace of conduct,
by patience and fidelity in the discharge of her
duties she has inspired nobler views and has won
the love and confidence of her associates who will
follow her with their earnest prayers in her new
field of labor.
	Committee: Clara M. Swallow, Hattie Robinson,
Julia Day, Hattie Partridge.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Expressions of love and respect to the memory
of Sister Martha M. Miller who departed this life
April 26, 1909.
	Resolved, that we mourn her as a faithful work-
er, a devoted mother and wife, a true Latter-day
Saint.
	That we the Granite Stake Relief Society extend
our heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved husband,
family and friends and pray God that his com
forting influence may be with them.
	Resolved that we send a copy of this memento
to the bereaved family and one to the Woman’s
Exponent for publication.
			LYDIA A. THATCHER.
	We the sisters of the Granite Stake Relief Soci-
ety have been bereft of our beloved and ever faith-
ful coworker.
	Dear Sister Lydia A. Thatcher departed this
life June 9, 1909.
	In commemoration of her good words, pure and
humble life, we pray that our Heavenly Father
will bless and comfort with His Holy Spirit her
bereaved family in their sorrow and help them
and us to emulate her worthy example.
	Through our heartfelt love for our dear sister we
resolve to present a copy of this memoriam to the
family of the deceased and send one to the Ex-
ponent for publication.
	“Tried in the furnace of this troubled life
	Faithful as daughter, mother, woman, wife,
	Crowned with celestial glory thou shalt shine
	’Mid souls immortal, endless and divine.”
				EMMA S. WOODRUFF,
				MARY P. YGUNG,
				KATHERINE H. BROCKBANK,
					Stake Presidency R. S.


OBITUARY.
	In memory of our beloved Sister Nancy Follie,
who departed this life on May 19th, 1909 of heart
failure at the age of 71 years.
	She has been a faithful and loving member in
our Relief Society, and for many years has been
our treasurer, which office she has filled with great
honor.
	To know her was to love her and she is greatly
mourned by all her sisters of the Relief Society.
	The following resolutions were received and
adopted by the Dingle Relief Society.
			RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas, Our heavenly Father in his infinite
wisdom has seen fit to call from our midst our
much esteemed and beloved Sister Naney Follie,
who departed this life May 19th, 1909 at Dingle,
Idaho
	And whereas our intimate association with her
in the performance of her duties as a treasurer in
the Society of the Dingle ward has so endeared her
to us that we feel it necessary and befitting to ex-
press our appreciations of her labors in our So-
ciety and of her earnest endeavors to do right! Of
her sterling integrity and faithfulness in the gospel,
in which she was an earnest worker, always ready
to perform any duties assigned her no matter
what the call might be.
	Sister Naney could always be relied upon.
	She was a faithful and loving helpmate to her
husband and a kind and affectionate mother to
her children.
	Be it resolved, that we, the sisters of the Relief


Society do most deeply mourn the loss of so faith-
ful a sister and feel it is hard to become reconciled
to her death. But are willing to acknowledge the
hand of the Lord in all things.
	Be it resolved, that we extend our heart
felt sympathy to her husband and children and
ask the Lord to bless them and cause them to
know he is their friend, also that he will comfort
their hearts in this hour of their trouble and sor-
row.
	Re it further resolved that these resolutions be
entered in the minutes of our Relief Society. A
copy be given to the bereaved family of the de-
ceased and a copy sent to the Woman’s Exponent.
				Elizabeth Cook,
				Rose Sparks,
				Tryphena L. Davis,
					Committee of Resolutions.
	Dingle, Idaho.


R. S. REPORTS.
			UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the regular 48th Quarterly Con-
ference of the Relief Society of Uintah Stake
held at Jensen ward house June 13, 1909,
beginning at 2 p. m.
	There were on the stand Elder Don B.
Colton of the Stake Presidency and other
brethren, also a goodly number of Relief
Society officers, President Nancy A. Colton
presiding. After opening exercises the sac-
rament was administered. Roll called 8
stake and 19 ward officers present. Mrs.
Nancy A. Colton felt to welcome all present
and was pleased to see so many, thought in
holding conference Sunday afternoons that
we would have more of the brethren present
She gave the sisters counsel in regard to
their duties, spoke against slander, said if
we have the Spirit of the Lord it will guide
us aright.
	Song from Naples Ward by a group of Re-
lief Society workers.
	Lecture by Mrs. Mary Gehran, entitled
“Moderation, Extremes, Self-restraint,
Amusements, Diversions, Excursions, So-
cial Gatherings, Late hours, Reading, Dress,
Parents.”
	Song from Jensen ward by a group of
young girls, entilted “The Daughters of
Zion.”
	Mrs. E. J. Stewart from Utah county,
spoke of the scenery along the road to Jen-
sen, how beautiful it was. Said in Genesis
we read where God made man in his own
image and also spoke of the spirit before it
entered the body, spoke of the time that the
Prophet Joseph Smith turned the key of
knowledge and what a blessing it had
been for women. Spoke against race
suicide and in favor of the Word of Wisdom
and what a blessing it would bring to us
if we would only obey it. The women of
the Relief Society should work together to
put down evil.
	Elder Don B. Colton, one of the stake
presidency, always made it a point to try
and visit Relief Society conference, gave an
excuse for President Smart not being pres-
ent, spoke of the home and the boys’ and
girls characters being built at home, of the
Church schools and the work we have to do
in rearing this great multitude of children.
Made estimate of the money that was spent
to keep up the navy and the money that was
spent to educate the children. Spoke of
the restoration of the Gospel and the auxi-
liary organizations of the Church. Alluded
to the academy building, that is to be built
in Uintah Stake in the near future. Recita-
tion from Jensen ward by Amber Timothy.
	Mrs. Mary H. Stringham spoke of what
a great blessing the Church schools are, also
made a few closing remarks, spoke of our
Stake annual conference to be held August


20. Thanked the sisters of Jensen for their
hospitality.
	Singing, after which conference ad-
journed for three months to be held in
Maeser, Benediction by Elder Andrew
Dudley,		PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Sec.


A SUCCESS IN NORWAY.
	Mrs. Gude, wife of the Minister from Nor-
way to the United States, before leaving
Washington for the summer gave an inter-
view to the correspondent of the Phila-
delphia Record. She said:
	“In Norway we boast of having the most
democratic constitution in the world, and
we have long been advocates of the simple
life. Our King and Queen mingle with ab-
solute freedom with the people, and the
segregation of classes is unknown. Prac-
tically we have no social unrest, and even
the women’s problem no longer vexes, since,
two years ago, the Parliamentary suffrage
was conferred on women. Municipal suf-
frage had been granted in 1901. It was
found that the experiment was eminently
successful, and that good resulted from giv-
ing women the right to vote on all that con-
cerned the welfare of their cities and town-
ships. When this was clearly demonstrated,
the Parliamentary suffrage was bestowed in
1907. The women have set to work very
earnestly to understand their civic obliga-
tions and to perform that highest duty in a
manner which will result for good to them-
selves and to their homes. An impetus has
been given to many projects which look to
improving conditions, especially in the rural
districts. In Norway, at least, women have
proved that to possess the ballot is to add
to their usefulness in the community.”
	Three-fifths of the women in Norway now
have the Parliamentary vote, and the Royal
Council has already recommended its exten-
sion to the remaining two-fifths.

	Mrs. Levisa C. Smith of Rochester, N. Y.,
who celebrated her 98th birthday on June 14,
has been identified with the great move-
ments of her time, particularly those per-
taining to tiie abolition of slavery, woman
suffrage and temperance reform. She was
an earnest co-laborer with the late Susan B.
Anthony, Mary Anthony, Amy Post, and
Lucy Stone. Mrs. Smith retains to a re-
markable degree all her faculties and three
years ago published a volume of her poems.
	At the Suffrage meeting in connection
with the International Council of Women,
Lady Aberdeen said:
	“I have never before spoken on the ques-
tion of suffrage for women chiefly because
my husband, the Earl of Aberdeen, Lord
Lieutenant of Ireland, occupies a high posi-
tion in public affairs, but after hearing what
has been said tonight before the audience
by women from every part of the world I
can no longer keep silent.”
	At the World’s Congress of Women at
Toronto Lady Aberdeen was re-elected pre-
sident; and her cousin, Mrs. Ogilvie Gordon,
from secretary to first vice-president of the
Congress. Besides Lady Aberdeen and Mrs.
Gordon, the officers elected on Saturday are:
Second vice-president, Countess Spallatti, of
Italy; third vice-president, Frau Heinisch,
of Belgium; corresponding secretary, Dr.
Alice Salomon, Germany; recording secre-
tary, Dr. Alexander Skoglumb, of Norway
treasurer, Mrs. W. E. Sanford, of Hamilon,
Ont.; honorary president, Mrs. May Wright
Sewall.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY SCHOOL OF
			NURSES.
	The Presidency and General Board of the
Relief Society announce that the next Relief
Society School of Nurses taught under their
direction will commence Monday, September
20, 1909, and continue eight months in Salt
Lake City- Dr. Margaret C. Roberts will be
the instructor. It is requested that the
Stake Presidents will at once consult with
their Ward Presidents for the purpose of se-
lecting intelligent, bright and energetic young
women of good moral character to take this
course in nursing.
	In recommending this course in nursing
given through the Relief Society, it should
be remembered that the students graduating
will have the privilege of paying for their
tuition with their work among the needy, and
should any of those coming from a distance
desire to gain some practical experience in
Salt Lake City before returning to their
homes, or at any time, the General Super-
intendent will take pleasure in helping them
to do so.
	The tuition for the course in nursing will
be $10.00 and it is expected that the Relief
Society organization in each Ward will pay
the tuition fee for their representative, al-
though any student who wishes to pay the
tuition herself may do so if willing to accept
and sign the Relief Society Nurse Contract
a copy of which follows:
			CONTRACT.
	In consideration of obtaining instruction
free in the Relief Society Nurse School, I
promise to answer all calls mads upon me
by the Superintendent of Relief Society
Nurses, or acting Superintendent where I
live, to give forty days charity nursing when-
ever required, and to nurse for whatever re-
muneration that may be designated by said
Superintendent, or acting Superintendent,
for the term of one year after graduation,
and I also agree to consult my Superinten-
dent in relation to all cases of nursing in
which I engage:
	Those who do not wish to sign this con-
tract may attend the school by paying the
regular fee of $50.00.
	Homes where the students may assist
with the work for their board and room, can
always be furnished with good Mormon fam-
ilies.
	We sincerely trust the members of the Re-
lief Society realize the value of this course
to young ladies as a part of their education.
	The cost of books will be $3.00 to $5.00.
For further particulars write to Mrs. Phebe
Y. Beatie; 55 North, West Temple Street,
Salt Lake City.
		BATHSHEBA W. SMITH, President,
		EMMELINE B. WELLS, Gen’l Sec’y.
PHEBE Y. BEATIE,
		Chairman R. S. School of Nurses.
EMMA A. EMPEY,
		Gen’l Supt. of Graduated Nurses.

[Column 2]
A MOTHER HONORED BY HER CHILDREN.
	The small, informal, select party given
in honor of Sister Johaanah N. Truelson by
her children, it seems to me might well be
mentioned in our WOMAN’S EXPONENT as
an example to other young people whose
attention may need to be drawn to the fact
that in honoring their parents they are ob-
serving one of the important command-
ments of God.
	It was on the evening of Friday, June 25,
1909, at Sister Truelson’s home in the 20th
Ward, Salt Lake City, and was arranged by
her two daughters, Mrs. Agnes T. Best and
Miss Marie Elvira Truelsen assisted by
others of the children and grandchildren. A
few choice friends met with the family at an
early hour, and the evening was very pleas-
antly spent, chiefly in social conversation.
Suitable refreshments were served, a lavish
supply of fine strawberries being furnished
by Brother Harold Best, son-in-law of the
honored guest of the evening, from his farm
at Mill Creek.
	A short program was rendered, consisting
of appropriate music, vocal and instru-
mental, and the reading of the following in-
teresting sketch, written for the occasion by
Miss “Vi” Truelson.	L. L. G. Richards.
	A DAUGHTER’S TRIBUTE.
	Johanna Norgren Truelson was born in
Sweden, March 14, 1842, being the second of
four children of Ole and Marie Norgren.
	It was in Norway that she received her
education, but later, as a young woman,
earned her living sewing in a tailor’s shop
in Gothenburg, Sweden. In this country
she first heard the Gospel as preached by
the Latter-day Saints. She read the Book
of Mormon with a sincere heart, and a great
desire to understand its truth, and the prom-
ise made by Moroni to all who read that
sacred book in that spirit was literally ful-
filled, for the truth of its teachings was
plainly manifest to the humble student.
	In September of 1863 she was baptized,
and about two years later left the scenes so
familiar to her and the friends of her youth
to immigrate to a strange land in the far-off
west, to her the land of Zion.
	The journey to Utah occupied altogether
six months, three months of which were
spent on the plains in company with about
four hundred Saints, with Brother Millen
Atwood as their leader.
	Volumes might be written of the experi-
ences of the Saints during those journeys;
of the difficulties they overcame; of their
sufferings and of their courage. Each com-
pany had its own peculiar trials to meet;
unwonted toils and weariness awaited these
pilgrims day after day, still they sang the
songs of Zion and looked forward to the
time when their weary feet would find a
resting place in the premised land.
	The company that Sister Truelson traveled
with met its full share of trouble and hard-
ship. More than a hundred graves were
made by the wayside leaving lonely and sor-
rowful hearts to still continue the journey.
One girl lost her mother and two sisters,
and, almost overcome with grief, finished

[Column 3]
the journey alone, as far as her own relatives
were concerned.
	One very peculiar circumstance occurred
that has left a vivid impression on the mem-
ory. A dissatisfied woman was in the com-
pany, and for some reason refused to walk
with the main body of immigrants, but in-
sisted upon always lagging some distance
behind. Her husband and others tried to
persuade her to walk up, pointing out to her
the danger she was in from the Indians.
	One day when the company made their
usual stop at noon, the Indians made an at-
tack upon them, trying to get some cattle,
and one Indian took this woman and rode
off with her. Several of the men were bad-
ly hurt by arrows in trying to rescue her,
but they were not successful, and she was
never heard of again.
	This same day Sister Truelson had taken
a pail and had gone some distance from the
camp to get water. On hearing cries she
looked up and saw Indians coming towards
her from every direction. She was so
frightened that for some seconds she could
not see or realize anything. On coming to
herself she found that the Indians had over-
looked her, and she made her way safely
back to camp, where she found her girl friend
weeping for her, thinking she had surely
been taken by the Indians.
	When Sister Trnelson and this friend ar-
rived in Zion they attended meeting, which
was held in the bowery. Their feelings
were overcome and they wept together for
joy and thankfulness at beholding the
Prophet of God—Brigham Young, whom
they had learned to know and love in their
native land.
	Sister Truelson soon obtained employment
with a tailor and afterwards was engaged
sewing in several large families of the Saints.
	On September 9, 1867, she was married
in the Endowment House, by Elder Heber
C. Kimball, to John Andrew Truelson, of
French descent, but a native of Sweden, who
had embraced the Gospel in Copenhagen,
and had taken much delight in laboring in
the Church there before coming to Utah,
part of his duty being that of leader of the
Copenhagen choir. Upon his arrival in
Utah he was successful in taking up mill-
ing. Sister Truelson and her husband spent
the greater part of their lives in Salt Lake
City, though for a few years they resided in
Idaho, where it was their great pleasure to
entertain at their home Sisters, Eliza R. Snow,
Emmeline B. Wells, and others, who fre-
quently visited that section of country.
	Sister Truelson is now in her sixty-seventh
year, a widow, and the mother of three sons
and two daughters. Her oldest son died in
1887, at the age of nineteen.
	Her ambition in life has been to rightly
understand the Gospel which she received
so gladly in her youth, and to live it day by
day, acting always the part of a true Saint
under all the circumstances which have sur-
rounded her. And her children can truly
testify to her unceasing devotion as a loving,
self-sacrificing mother. A pure and true ex-
ample has been before them, and they, above
all others, can rise up and call her blessed.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
						67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY		LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS	TRY US
					OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 38.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST, 1909.					No. 2.


LIFE IS WORTH THE LIVING.
Oh life is worth the living, from the cradle to the
	grave,
With all its light and shadow, if the spirit is but
	brave;
For the mystic web it weaveth, touched by
	memory’s magic spell,
Are picture's in soul chamber’s where the spirit
	loves to dwell.

Oh life is worth the living, for the sunshine and
	the dew,
The diamond dew that sparkles like a sweet
	thought pure and true.
For the little warbling song-birds in the treetops
	soaring high,
For the music of the breezes, so softly passing
	by.

Oh life is worth the living, for the little baby’s
	smile.
Its loving touch and prattle, the lingering hour’s
	bequile;
For the glow and warmth of youth time, life’s mys-
	tic fairy-land
For the pearl’s and gems that sparkle along its
	golden strand.

Oh life is worth the living, for fond parental
	love,
Type of that higher Parenthood, in our dear home
	above,
For the silver threads of friendship twining a
	cable strong,
For the touch of sweet humanity, in life’s un-
	numbered throng.

Oh life is worth the living, to know God lives on
	high,
That the spirit is immortal, and can never, never
	die,
To know that His great kingdom is built upon
	the Rock,
To stand against the wildest, the tempests fiercest
	shock.

Oh life is worth the living, for the wrecks along
	the shore,
Where the wild wave’s dash upon them, and the
	ships return no more,
For they are safely anchored, in the Heaven of
	the blest,
Where the wicked ceasefrom troubling, and the
	weary are at rest. 
							HOPE.


Hilda Stowe, a granddaughter of Harriet
Beecher Stowe, the author of “Uncle Tom’s
Cabin,” will make her debut on the profes-
sional stage next October. Miss Stowe has
had considerable experience as an amateur.
	The proposed new constitution for South
Africa turns over the control of school and
municipal affairs on which women hitherto
have had a vote, to Provincial Councils, for
which women cannot vote. Both Dutch
and British women are protesting vigorously.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
		LYDIA ANN ALLEY WELLS.
	So many of the pioneer Saints have pass-
ed away of late that we who are left feel
very keenly the loss of their society and of
their living testimony of the divine mission
of the Prophet Joseph Smith. It also
awakens in us many tender emotions and
vivid remembrances of days gone by, when
we passed through stirring scenes and ovents
together.
	One recalls at such times the beautiful
poem of Thomas Moore which expresses the
sentiment of many hearts, lonely because of
those who are no longer with us here.

“Oft in the stilly night,
	Ere slumbers chain has bound me,
Fond Memory brings the light 
	Of other days around me;
		The smiles, the tears,
		Of childhood’s years
	The words of love then spoken,
		The eyes that shone,
		Now dimmed and gone,
	The cheerful hearts now broken!
Thus in the stilly night
	Ere Slumber’s chain hath bound me.
Sad Memory brings the light
	Of other days around me.

When I remember all
	The friends thus link’d together
I’ve seen around me fall
	Like leaves in wintry weather
		I feel like one,
		Who treads alone
	Some banquet hall deserted,
		Whose lights are fled,
		Whose garlands dead,
	And all but he departed!
Thus in the stilly night,
	Ere Slumber’s chain has bound me,
Sad Memory brings the light
	Of other days around me.”

	So many dear friends have taken their de-
parture of late, to “that bourne from whence
no traveler returns,” that were it not for the
glorious light revealed from heaven, that has
given us an assurance of meeting our loved
ones again, it would be almost unendurable.
We, who believe and who know if we are
faithful to the end, we shall join them sooner
or later where there will be no more death
or sorrow but joy forevermore, ought not to
indulge in excessive grief, but “press on to-
ward the mark of the high calling, in Christ

[Column 2]
Jesus” that we may obtain the rest that re-
mains to those who endure unto the end.
	We cannot help missing those who are
near and dear it is only natural, yet we
would not call them back if we could; and
therefore we bow in submission with the
best grace possible, and try to acknowledge
the hand of the Lord, and not grieve the
Holy Spirit but cherish its divine influence,
and go on our way trying to bear all things
whatsoever experiences or chastenings come
to us.

“They are not lost; they are within the door
That shuts out loss, and every hurtful thing—
With angels bright and loved ones gone before,
In their Redeemer’s presence evermore,
And God Himself their Lord, and Judge and
		King.”

	We need not be forg[-]tful of those that go
away, there are many beautiful things to
cherish in the associations of the past, that
we are happier for remembering, that sweeten
our lives, as it were, and help us in our on-
ward way. The tenderness of the hours we
have spent together can never die out, we
may be absorbed in our daily pursuits but
ever and anon the past comes back to us
and we pause and listen and momentarily
recollection comes like the flash of a meteor
and is gone again.
	Our dear sister and friend of whom we
write has finished her mission here on earth
and has made her calling and election sure,
we verily believe; but it is our duty to re-
cord the life and works of a woman like Sis-
ter Lydia Ann Wells, born at a time when
the gospel was restored in the last dispensa-
tion, privileged to receive its teachings and
gather with the Saints in her youth.
	Sister Wells comes of good Puritan ances-
tors, who came across the ocean in 1834.
The Alleys settled in Lynn, Mass., and the
Symonds, her mother’s family in Salem,
Mass., the same year. George Alley and
Mary Symonds were married in Sept. 15, 1822.
(The first child was Margaret, a daughter,
who subsequently when a beautiful young
woman, became the wife of Brigham Young;
she was the mother of two children, a
daughter and a son, the daughter is well-
known here, Mrs. Evelyn Davis; the son,
Mahonri married Miss Agnes McIntosh and
there were three children; the father died in
1884; one of the sons, Mahonri Young, is
now quite a famous artist and sculptor of
whom Utah is justly proud today.)
	Lydia Ann, the subject of this sketch was
the second child of these goodly people; she
was born on New Year’s day 1828 in Lynn,
Essex Co., Mass. When she was a little
girl, in 1830, her parents moved to Salem,
her mother’s former home, and it was there
in 1841, the Gospel found them. The Elders
were Erastus Snow and Benjamin Winches-
ter; the Alleys were believers at once, and
were baptized in 1842 and started for Nau-
voo the same year. They were late in start-
ing however and ice in the Mississippi
river hindered their progress and they were
obliged to stop first at Alton and again at
Quincy, Illinois, before reaching Nauvoo,
the gathering place of the Saints at that
time.
	Sister Lydia Ann was baptized in 1844


[Column 1]
when sixteen years of age by Elder Erastus
Snow in the Mississippi river at Nauvoo, and
was confirmed a member of the Church by
Elder Amasa Lyman although she had a
testimony of the truth of the Gospel when
she heard the first Elders preach in Salem,
Mass. Concerning the martyrdom of the
Prophet and Patriarch, she writes in her re-
cord.
	“I had the privilege of seeing the Prophet
Joseph and listening to his voice and to the
words of inspiration that fell from his lips
shall never forget them they are as vivid
to my mind as if it were but yesterday they
were uttered. I can testify of his divine
mission and know for a surety that he was
a Prophet of the Most High God. I was
there at his martyrdom, and shared the
great sorrow with the people of God, I
looked upon their faces in death and shall
never forget them.”
	Brother and Sister Alley had a very nice
comfortable home in Nauvoo which they
left at the time of the exodus with their
family, except Margaret who had left with
the first company, and moved across the
Mississippi in the summer of 1846, and
camped first on the bank of the river, then
moved about three miles; where there was
an encampment of the Saints, the mother
was very sick but finally recovered through
faith and the gift of healing, and the family
moved on to Farmington, Iowa, after-
wards to Bonaparte; there Brother Alley
stayed a while making preparations for the
longer journey westward. The family were
nearly all sick with fever and ague, some-
times, one could wait on the rest; Brother
Charles Rich persuaded Brother Alley to
leave the large quantity of flour he had
bought to take with him, for the poor Saints
that were there by the wayside so destitute
and he moved on with his teams as far as
Mt. Pisgah, and in the late fall arrived at
Winter Quarters, on the West side of the
Missouri river, the family were all better
and quite enjoyed while there the rest and
quiet once again being free from mobs and
persecution.
	In the spring of 1848, in the company of
President Brigham Young, the Alley family
started for the valley and arrived here on
the twentieth of September, 1848, and have
resided here ever since, they settled in the
Eighth ward where they continued to reside
until the death of Brother and Sister Alley
and their family lived there until very re-
cently.
	Lydia Ann Alley was married to General
Daniel H. Wells April 4, 1852. The mar-
riage ceremony was performed by President
Brigham Young. Her married life has been
a very happy one, although many changes
have taken place during the long years since
that event. The children born to them are
Miss Catharine Wells, Mrs. Mary M. W.
Whitney and Louis R. Wells, all of this
city the grandchildren, Murray Wells Whit-
ney, and Wendall Webb Whitney, and Louis
R. Wells’ children are Daniel Hanmer and
Horace Hanson four grand sons, these with
many others of the Wells family and the
Alley family, her brothers and sisters and
their posterity, all feel the loss here of one
who was a stalwart among them. Three of
the children of Sister Wells passed away in
infancy a beautiful little girl Lucy Ann died
when ten months old a boy named Wilford
Woodruff who died at the age of three
months also Arthur Deming also died when
three months old.
	Sister Wells was a public spirited woman

[Column 2]
energetic and industrious in the extreme,
and though a devoted wife and mother al-
ways found time for public duties and work.
In the year 1868, when the local Relief Soci-
ety was organized in the Thirteenth ward in
this city, she became a member and was
soon after appointed a teacher; in 1873 she
was selected as second counselor to Presi-
dent Rachel Grant, Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith, now General President over the So-
ciety in all the world was at that time Presi-
dent Grant’s first Counselor. In 1882, Sister
B. W. Smith moved to the Seventeenth
ward and Sister Wells was made First Coun-
selor. Sister Lydia Ann Wells was chosen
to preside over the Primary Association in
the Thirteenth ward in 1882, and held the
position five years. Sister Wells was also
counselor to Sister Ellen C. Clawson, Presi-
dent of the Primary Association of Salt Lake
Stake in 1882, and filled that office until
Sister Clawson’s death, and when Sister
Camilla Cobb was selected to fill the vacan-
cy caused by the demise of Sister Clawson,
she chose Lydia Ann Wells for her First
Counselor. She held that office until the
division of Salt Lake Stake in 1901, when
all the stake officers were released. In all
these positions for more than thirty years,
Sister Wells was untiring in her labors of
love, a wise counselor, natural leader and a
woman of excellent judgment, one who al-
ways stood for justice, and maintained her
dignity at all times and on all occasions,
with perfect modesty, yet with that tenacity
of purpose which is necessary in any impor-
tant undertaking in fact she was a woman
of great force of character.
	When the sisters of the Church were se-
lected to labor in the Salt Lake Temple, her
name was among those who were chosen
and she continued regularly in the work
until her serious illness. She rejoiced greatly
in her Temple work, and appreciated the
work of the redemption of the dead as much
as it is possible for any woman to do. She
had been privileged to go with her husband
to the St. George, Logan and Manti Temples
and expressed herself most happy in having
these great privileges.
	What the loss of such a woman is to her
immediate family it is impossible to tell in
words hut there is no alternative, it must
be borne and family life must still go on
with those who remain. Sister Wells death
was not unexpected, she had been ailing
some months, and suffered severely during
the last week. She passed into a peaceful
sleep at 11:20 a. m., Friday, August 6. She
breathed her last surrounded by all her im-
mediate family in the gentle sweet influence
of the home she so dearly loved.
	Everything that willing hands and loving
hearts could do had been done and finally
when all was over for her, she was daintily
clothed in spotless linen robes of white,
with the softest white vail that delicate
hands could prepare, and laid in a beautiful
white casket, like a bride adorned for her
husband. The peace and calm that shone
in her face was lovely to behold.
	The funeral services were held at the home
323, Second Ave. Bishop George Romney
presided, the opening hymn was “Farewell all
earthly honors,” rendered by a quartett,
prayer was offered by Elder A. H. Ivins, then
Prof. Horace S. Ensign sang very touching-
ly the beautiful hymn “Resignation.” Pre-
sident John R. Winder paid an eloquent
tribute to the honorable upright life of the
deceased, referred to her faithful labors in
the Temple, her humility and her many ex-

[Column 3]
cellent qualities and faithfulness as a Saint
in very deed.
	Bishop George Romney referred more
especially to her home life and duties in the
ward and her excellent example, and refer-
red to his great respect for the family.
	Sister Emma Ramsay Morris sang “O,
My Father” with deep and tender expression
and in fine voice.
	Apostle Heber J. Grant paid a glowing
tribute to the memory of Sister Wells and
made reference to the consistency of her life
in all its varied phases. He read from the
76th section of the Book of Doctrine and
Covenants, concerning those who abide in
the faith.
	President Joseph F. Smith delivered an
eloquent and powerful discourse upon the
change from death unto life and referred to
the resurrection of the Savior and touched
upon many spiritual truths that had been
revealed through the Scriptures, and again
brought to our attention through the light
of the Gospel in our own day.
	The closing hymn “Who are these arrayed
in white” by the Temple choir was very im-
pressive. Benediction by Elder Nephi Y.
Schofield.
	The floral offerings were abundant and
beautiful from the many loving friends and
relatives, roses, sweet peas and carnations
and the elegant mantle of delicate roses and
sweet peas that lay over the casket was most
exquisite. The pall bearers were the sons
and son in law of President Wells and
a long line of carriages followed the hearse
to the cemetery. The grave was solemnly
dedicated by Apostle Orson F. Whitney and
the last sad rites were over for one dearly
beloved.

“We, too, shall come to the river side,
		One by one
We are nearer its waters each eventide,
		One by one.
We can hear the noise and the dash of the stream
Now and again, through our life’s deep dream.
Sometimes the floods all the banks overflow,
Sometimes in ripples and small waves go,
		One by one.”
								E. B. W.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
In Memoriam of Lydia Ann Alley Wells........
		...........................................E. B. W.	9
Notes and News..............................................	10
Foreign Letters................................................	11
Triennial Report of the National Woman’s
		Relief Society.....Emmeline B. Wells	14
Outline for Mothers Work...............................	15
Relief Society School of Nurses......................	16
	Editorial:—“Our Inland Sea”..................	12
		International Council Delegates......	12
		Laura M. Hyde Miner......................	13
Poetry:—Life is Worth the Living..........Hope	9
		The City of the Saints...Lydia D. Alder	11


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	There are women in the United States who
are equal to the office of President. There have
been many capable queens in history; and
there are as able women in the world today
as in any former age, and as many of them
in America as anywhere else. If Jane
Addams were President she would fill the
office with as much discretion as Mr. Taft, as 
much zeal for righteousness, as Mr. Roose-
velt, and more breadth of mind than either
of them.—Ex.
	Much sympathy is expressed for Rev.
Anna Howard Shaw, president of the Nation-
al Woman’s Suffrage Association, who was
seriously injured in a carriage accident in
Minneapolis a few days ago. It appears
that Dr. Shaw was thrown from the carriage
while going to the station to take a train for
New York, when the horses hauling her car-
riage, became frightened and bolted. Dr.
Shaw was thrown from her carriage and re-
ceived a broken ankle and some bad bruises.
She was returning from the convention of
the National Association at Seattle, and had
stopped in Minneapolis to confer with Pro-
fessor Frances Squire Potter, the newly
elected secretary of the association. It is
said that her injuries will confine her to her
bed for at least three weeks.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		THE CITY OF THE SAINTS.
					I.
Among the Rocky mountains whose grandeur
	poets sing
Where streams of living water from hidden foun-
	tains spring
And crags resound the echoes of fiercest eagle’s
	scream,
In wildest, awe-inspiring mood Nature’s glories
	teem,
There raging, foaming torrents dash madly down
	below,
The mountains grandly tow’ring are capped with
	crystal snow,
As bulwark on the eastside, unbroken there they
	seem.
As sentinels they mutely stand, catch the sun’s
	last gleam,
That falls in crimson glory amid their purple
	haze—
As burnished gold reflecting its glitt’ring fading
	rays.
The panorama changes—a mountain sunset
	grand
Is glinting far and near—shadows deepening o’er
	the land.
The dying glory circling, in clearest liquid blue,
Faces in the Western mountains, with varying
	color’s hue,
Their many frozen peaks seem to glisten mid the
	gold,
And challenge admiration of all who may behold.

					II.
The lake like molten fire, in a burning limpid
	sea,
Is blazing at their feet—sleeping in tranquillity.
Then suddenly they cease, and as wid’ning open
	gate
They let the glory through—on the other side then
	wait
The clouds catch up the radiance, diffusing it on
	high,
And paint the gorgeous colors across the arching
	sky.
Now Ensign smiles approval and dons the crimson
	hue—
Our flag floats there, its many stars in their field
	of blue—
And ours the proudest of them, though new
	among them all,
Partakes of freedom’s spirit, among these moun-
	tains tall.
’Tis here Salt Lake is builded, a city on a hill—
And rising o’er the world, will her destiny fulfill.
By ancients she was seen, all her wondrous beauty
	known, 
Amid prophetic, glowing light is her history
	shown.
The world knows of her Temple—Moroni’s garb
	of gold,
And of her courts and mansions so long ago fore-
	told.

					III.
Her wide laid streets are shaded from Summer’s
	burning sun,
On either side slow murm’ring streams o’er their
	courses run.
Proud Salt Lake City sits enthroned, a Queen in
	the land,
And gazes o’er the nations from her exalted
	stand.
On all their borders discord, war’s crimson tide
	o’er flows;
And widow’s cries and orphan’s moans, telling of
	their woes,
Arise in clouds like incense—float on the heavy
air—
And darken e’en as night clouds, the scene so
	passing fair.

					IV.
A Watchman guards thy fortress, what says he
	of the night?
Do inky clouds lower, shutting out the noon day 
	light?
Must nations ever rise and fall ’mid their armies
	slain?
When will the Great Messiah begin his promised
	reign?
Serenely on the mountains thy glory blazes yet;
And reaches wide as all the world, lovely Deseret.
One smiles upon thy future, e’en like thy sacred
	past,
O’ershadowing with his watch care, and ever it
	will last—
Then shine thou on in splendor, where stern the
	mountains rise,

[Column 2]
The landscape far outstretching fairest ’neath the
	skies—
’Mid this grand scene, thy triumph soon will 
	be; Christ thy King,
Who comes from courts of glory thy diadem will
	bring.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


[Column 1]
		FOREIGN LETTERS.
				Plymouth, England,
				July 24th, 1909.
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells:
	MY DEAR FRIEND:—I am writing you a
few lines to tell you that I often think of
you in my journeying through this delight-
ful old country. We landed here May 31,
and have been all over England and part of 
Scotland visiting nearly all the old cathe-
drals, castles and ruins. We went through
the Trossacks in Scotland and spent some 
days in the Lake region in England which
we enjoyed very much. I visited Scrooby
Manor where Elder Wm. Brewster one of my
ancestors lived. It made me feel very 
strangely to walk through the rooms where
the Brewsters used to live for the house is
still inhabited though it has been repaired
many times. There are 15 rooms of various
sizes. It was formerly a part of the arch-
episcopal palace of the archbishop of York
but Wm. Brewster lived in it about 20 years.
He was a Cambridge man and private secre-
tary to Davidson the secretary of Queen
Elizabeth who was in disgrace after he made
Queen Elizabeth sign the death warrant of
Mary Queen of Scotts. I also visited Boston
where Brewster and others were imprisoned
and tried for their non-conformity.
	I like England much better than Scot-
land and could be very contented to live 
here. It is strange but several people would 
hardly believe that I am an American be-
cause I spoke without the nasal twang. I 
wonder whether I am acquiring an English
accent, as well as the voice.
	We expect to sail for Germany tomorrow;
my address will be ‘‘Cooks” Berlin for the 
present.
	I send you a sprig of real “heather” with
much love,
		Your Sincere Friend,
			EMMA J. McVICKER.

		London, July 18th, 1909,
			Ivanhoe Hotel.

Dear Sister Wells:—
	’Tis bright and beautiful this Sunday
morning something unusual in London al-
though we have had exceptional weather
ever since we arrived a week ago.
	The four daughters in company of Dr.
Ralph Richards, Thad. Hammond and Elder
Barnes have gone in a Buss to White Chapel,
this morning. I wanted to write to you and
this is my only opportunity. The young
men are coming back to dinner, and then we 
are all going to the Mission House to church
this evening, where we will hear Brother
Hammond speak, and President Rushton
has arranged for me to see and talk to the
sisters.
	We are having a most instructive and in-
teresting trip. Cook’s men have prepared
our course of travel, arranged our sight see-
ing with a competent guide, our hotels, and
in fact every thing for our comfort and 
benefit.
	While in Dublin we were taken for a drive
all over the city, and we were at Lord Aber-

[Column 2]
deen’s country place, saw his picture and the
seat he occupied in the Irish House of Par-
liament, or Legislative Assembly, the church
he and his Lady worship in, they are greatly
beloved by the common people in Ireland.
We saw the monuments, of O’Connor, and
Wellington. We were in Dublin, Art Gal-
leries, etc.
	We went to Killarney from Dublin, went 
on all the beautiful Lakes, in row boats,
visited Kate Karney’s Cottage, on horse
back, drove back to Lake Hotel by coach,
were in Cork two days, bought linen in Bel-
fast, saw them manufacture it from the spin-
ning to where it is bleached and ready for
sale.
	In London we have attended Grand Ope-
ra, seen the best troup in England play—
Sheridan’s wonderful “School for Scandal.”
Went to Westminster Abbey, St. Pauls Ca-
thedral, The House of Lords and Commons,
Art Galleries, “Wallis Collection,” London
Tower, and London’s Bridge. The Thames
River and Waterloo Bridge, Windsor Castle,
Canterbury, Oxford, Leamington, Warwick,
Stratford-on-Avon, the home of Shakespeare,
the house, the school he attended or rather
schoolhouse, the church in which he is 
buried, his garden spot, his monument, etc.
The fine stores, and tomorrow we go to the 
other great College Cambridge.
	The British Museum is a most wonderful
place. We are going to the English Lake-
district on the 21st, and will sail from Queens-
town to Norway on the 27th for a twelve
days cruise; will meet President Lund’s party
perhaps. We have never been ill one mo-
ment except for one day and one night,
while in a dense fog crossing the Ocean. We 
could not possibly be better or happier, ex-
cept if we had all our loved ones, and our 
dear friends with us. We will take a drive
to Hyde Park and Buckingham Palace this
afternoon before going to Church.
	Dear Sister, I do hope, you, Sister Smith,
and all the sisters keep well, give the di-
rectors all my love and best wishes. I wrote
to Sister Smith from Edinburgh. We have
secured our passage home and will sail from 
Naples on the 5th of October, but will not
reach Salt Lake until November 1st or later.
	If you could write to the Swiss Mission
House, I could get your letter and would so
appreciate one. So much comfort I have
taken from the dear little book “Fear Not.”
The elders say Brother and Sister Penrose
went on to the Continent with President A.
H. Lund and party.
	Please tell Sister Beatie that we were in 
Dublin two days and two nights, had plenty
of time to have visited with her son, but
could not find his address in the Pens, nor
at our Hotel Directory. She should have 
given us his address, for we did not know
that it was not one of the mission head-
quarters, and she did.
	I tell you the boys over here are glad to 
see us and come and have a meal at our
hotel with us, and we are much delighted
to have them.
	God bless you, Sister Wells, my husband
and daughters join with me in kind regards.
Excuse my long and disconnected letter for 
I simply could not write less.
		Affectionately,
			J. P. M. FARNSWORTH.


Cicely Hamilton and Marion Holmes will
edit in England a new penny weekly paper
devoted to woman suffrage. It will be the
organ of the Women’s Freedom League.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	-	AUGUST, 1909.


[Column 1]
“OUR INLAND SEA.”
	Alfred Lambourne’s new book with the
above title, is a study in nature and in lan-
guage as distinctive as its subject is from
ordinary common-place matters. Mr. Lam-
bourne is original in all that he undertakes
although some people maintain that orig-
nality is a myth, but if one admits there be
such a thing, he is certainly original in his
work.
	To attempt to give one an idea of the
book in a paragraph or two is quite impossi-
ble, it will bear reading over and over, and
the writer has not yet read it once consecu-
tively
	Our inland sea is a wonder in itself, it al-
ways has been a sort of a mystery and when
one explains its constituents and dissects it,
so to speak, it detracts from the mythical
charm that makes it, in a sense, poetical
and classical.
	Mr. Lambourne’s book is a classic.
Years hence it will be read with enthusiasm
by classical scholars of that wonderful day
in the future, we look forward to with such
laudable pride. The book ought to be in
every great library in the world.
	Ever since we came to Utah Great Salt
Lake has had an indescribable fascination
about it for some of us, that no other place
in these mountain fastnesses possesses, and
it is not very remarkable that it should
seem so, when one pauses and considers,
there is nothing like it, or even similar, in
this Western Hemisphere.
	But to return to the book, it is really a
poem. The author says it is paragraphs
from a diary (we had never yet heard of a
poetical diary). However, we must believe
what Mr. Lambourne says about his diary.
	The descriptions are viv[-]d, particularly so,
startling, even to one who has a powerful
imagination. If only we [-]ould have pre-
sented a copy to each of those distinguished
ladies who were entertained at Saltair rec-
ently, what a trophy it would have beer to
carry away from America.
	Dear America, has not yet filled its mis-
sion of wonders to the world, many [--]ings
are yet to come to pass, many hidden [--]hs
have already been unfolded by gre[---]d
wise men, many mysteries explaine[-],(but
this is wide of the mark) the book is the ob-
ject now under consideration. It is unique
in its descriptions of the beauty and grand-
eur of the dead sea, and its islands, but the
sea itself is greater than the book, and
makes one feel how incompetent man is to
reproduce with pen, or tongue, or brush that

[Column 2]
which God has made and formed and set in
its proper place. Yet we are glad of the
book, it is glorious to read such magnificent
descriptions, and one thrills with emotion
in contemplating some of the author’s glow-
ing symphonies of rhythmical beauty. And
yet we repeat, the dead sea itself with its
picturesque setting is impossible to put in
any book, by the greatest author, as we be-
hold it in all its phases and surroundings.
	We commend the book to the scholarly
men and women of the world, it is worth
more than double its money value, it is a
book that will outlive its contemporaries,
but the inland sea and its setting in these
mountain vales has been and is an inspira-
tion of inestimable value to those who be-
hold the infinite glory of the handiwork of
the Almighty, the Ruler and Author of the
universe.


[Column 1]
INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL DELEGATES
	The foreign delegates that had been in
attendance at the Quinquennial sessions of
the International Council in Toronto, Can-
ada, came through Salt Lake on their re-
turn trip. The National Woman’s Relief
Society was notified beforehand and request-
ed to call on other organizations affiliated
with the National Council of Women of
the United States and make preparations to
entertain the distinguished party on their
arrival; accordingly the Young Ladies’ N. 
M. I. A. was notified, as these two are the
largest societies. The Maccabes, Woman’s
Relief Corps, Jewish Council, Woman’s Suf-
frage Council and National Christian
League, local aocieties, were also notified,
seven organisations; committees from these
came together and eleeted a chairman, Mrs.
E. B. Wells, of the Relief Society, and a secre-
tary, Miss Ann M. Cannon, of the
Young Ladies, and commenced to discuss
matters relative to a plan of entertainment.
There was a feeling of unity of effort and
harmony prevailing, and as time went on
plans were suggested and were carefully con-
sidered. The time designated in the letter
received for the party to remain, was so
short (from 6:45 p. m. to 8:15 a. m.) that it
was difficult to determine what was best. The
letter stated that the ladies would have din-
ner on the train and would only wish for a
light luncheon, etc., etc.
	The unanimous conclusion arrived at after
much deliberation, was to meet the ladies at
the station, have a musical recital at the
Tabernacle if possible, take them to Saltair,
partake of luncheon there, and those who
desired to try the bathing do so; meantime,
while seated at table to have the Governor
of the state, or the Mayor of the city, or some
prominent citizen welcome them to the
Mecca of the West, and then to have some
responses from the foreign delegates.
	At a regular meeting of the committees,
when there were representatives from each
of the seven organlzations present, Mrs. E.
B. Wells was elected toastmistress and also
Chairman of the Committee on Invitation,
and there seemed to be a perfect under-
standing of the matter.
	The day was looked forward to with great
expectations, as it was known it was a very
distinguished party, and naturally the ladies
directly interested in the entertainment were
anxious to make the affair as perfect a suc-
cess as possible.
	The ladies arrived an hour earlier than
the schedule time, and were escorted to the
tabernacle where through the courtesy of

[Column 2]
the First Presidency of the Church, a fine
musical program was rendered by Professor
Edward P. Kimball, after which Elder B. H.
Goddard very kindly explained in an inter-
esting manner, facts connected with the
building of the famous Tabernacle and the
great Temple.
	The party, in charge of members of the
Committee, were taken in automobiles, car-
riages and cars to Saltair depot, and were
soon en route for the famous Dead Sea of
America. The sunset was magnificent and
was greatly enjoyed by the ladies, and after
arriving, those who wished to do so, availed
themselves of the opportunity of a bath in
this renowned and unique inland sea,
whose strange beauty with its glorious sun-
sets is entrancing to the beholder, especially
to one poetical by nature, and invariably re-
minds one of Moore’s exquisite poem:

“How dear to me the hour when daylight dies,
And sunbeams melt along the silent sea;
For then sweet dreams of other days arise,
And memory breathes its vesper sigh to thee.
And as I watch the line of light that plays,
Along the smooth wave to the burning West,
I long to tread that golden path of rays,
And think ’twould lead to some bright isle of
	rest.”

	There was very little opportunity for con-
sultation with the guests to ascertain from
them what would be most pleasing, and a
word here and there or a partial introduc-
tion, very informal, was all those in charge
could make possible.
	Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry, who had met
some of the delegates in Toronto while at-
tending the Council, went to Ogden to meet
them, accompanied by Mrs. Annie Wells
Cannon, and they did whatever was possi-
ble to help with introductions and to make
these guests of honor feel how delighted the
citizens of Utah were to have such celebrated
women guests of our city. Salt Lake was
honored in receiving these wonderful women
from so many countries, speaking different
languages, and their visit to America was
an event such as has not transpired before in
history. The “Toronto papers said they were
the most distinguished women from all parts
of the globe, and they were representative
women of the countries from which they
came.” They not only represented coun-
tries but subjects of vital importance to
[-]umanity at large, for the uplifting and bet-
terment of all mankind. They were not
traveling about for pleasure, but to help the
great work of progress in various directions
to reach all parts of the great w[-]rld. These
grand women are aiding in the crusade
against all forms of vice and evils, and spread-
ing enlightenment abroad, and among those
who sit in darkness. Their attainments on
grave educati[---] scientific questions
are very great [---] [--]ey are endeavoring to
solve the most [---]cult problems of real life;
and many of t[--]m have already rendered
valuable service various capacities. They
are not only women of thought, but of ac-
tion, helping to move the world forward.
	Perhaps some of those who saw them,
considered very little about the great work
these tired travelers were engaged ln doing. 
There was neither time nor opportunity for
communication with them or even momen-
tary conversation—in this respect the affair
was very unsatisfactory, but even had there
been a formal reception in some large hall,
there would have been scarcely time to more
than shake hands. It was a large party, and
take it all in all, the committee were
obliged to submit to conditions as they de-


[Column 1]
veloped after reaching Saltair. Three long
tables for the luncheon were arranged on the
lower floor of the pavilion decorated with
sweet peas and late roses in every shade of
color, and looked very inviting and artistic.
	The toastmistress, in opening her remarks,
referred to the brilliant company assembled,
representing many countries, and languages,
and repeated a stanza of Longfellow which
seemed an appropriate setting:

“Ships that pass in the night and speak each other
	in passing,
Only a signal shown, and a distant voice in the
	darkness.
So on the ocean of life, we pass and speak one
	another,
Only a look and a voice, then darkness again and a
	silence.”

	Mrs. Wells’ welcome was genuine, and
she betrayed a depth of emotion in speaking
of the honor of entertaining such distin-
guished guests, and the sentiment of the peo-
ple of Utah desiring peace and good will to
all mankind—she announced to make the
address of welcome,
 
	HON. JOHN HENRY SMITH.
Who cordially welcomed the visitors in the
name of a people who, loved liberty and ex-
tended the hand of fellowship and love to
people of all nations and creeds. He said,
“we have noble men and women among us,
who delight to greet you;” and he, hoped
that reciprocal pleasure and good will
would attend this auspicious occasion; he
referred to the people who founded this
commonwealth as from all nations and near-
ly every language having representatives in
the state.
	Miss Emily Janes President of the Nation-
al Council of Great Britain was the first
to respond to the welcome. She said in part
that in crossing the American continent from
the Atlantic to the Pacific she had found
nothing more striking than that in the desert
through which she had just passed and this
beautiful city. She rejoiced that the people
of these localities were being drawn together
in the association of the great national and
international Councils; the journey had not
been so much a lesson in the achievements
of industry and art, as of the oneness of
humanity. In closing Miss Janes expressed
on behalf of the British Council appreciation
and gratitude to the women of Utah for their
warm welcome.
	Rabbi Charles Freund took for his toast
the “Jewish Idea of Woman”—and referred
to the sentiment prevailing among them,
that woman was the inspiration for all
things great and goo[-] and that any people
that held this ideal woman stood for a
high civilization, the nor of his remarks
were along this line of thought, and he
closed by wishing the delegation God-speed
on its homeward way with pleasant memo-
ries of the visit.
	Frau Marie Stritt President of the National
Council of Germany, after expressing thanks
for the warm hospitality, accorded the
party, and that a succession of wonders had
met them from shore to shore on their way
to the West, and that new wonders were
now meeting them on their way back; and
one of the most delightful experiences was
coming to Salt Lake where they met per-
sonal friends, some who had been at the
Congress in Berlin, and spoke of Mrs. Horne,
who is now in Seattle, who was pointed out
as a woman who had sat in Parliament,
(meaning the Legislature of Utah). Frau
Stritt expressed sincere thanks in behalf of

[Column 2]
the German delegation, she was most en-
thusiastic in her speech.
	Madamoiselle Popelin President National
Council of Belgium spoke very effectively
and after a few words in English and feel-
ing she could give freer expression to her
feelings, burst into eloquent utterance in
French; her enthusiasm regarding the sun-
set and the stars coming out one by one was
a scene she could never forget; they had
queried on the long dusty journey what
would compensate for their discomfort, Salt
Lake had generously answered that question
to every heart.
	Froken Kroeg of Norway, President of the
National Council of Norway said her special-
ity in speaking was suffrage, but in Utah
there was no chance for the women had won
it, she was instantly informed that the men
had given it—and Hon. John Henry Smith
told the ladies he was Chairman of the Con-
vention which made woman’s franchise pos-
sible in Utah.
	Baroness Ellen Von Platen representing
the Swedish Council of Women Spoke most
appreciatively of the welcome extended, and
specially of the musical program in the Ta-
bernacle; “she was sure where all were work-
ing for good purposes, harmony must be the
outcome.” The Swedish people here were
proud to have a woman of distinction and
title from their own country.
	Miss Fries of Holland was very humorous
in her little speech, of the trip across the
continent, and declared she was a better
dancer than speaker; and if she had her na-
tional costume she would rather dance then
try to speak; she alluded to the Dutch an-
cestry of American people and spoke with
pride of Roosevelt as a typical descendant
of Holland Dutch.
	The Marchesa Beamon Del Monte of Italy
spoke for the National Council of Italy, al-
luded in the most glowing terms to the sun-
set she had seen on the Great Salt Lake and
that it had never been surpassed by any she
had seen in Italy; she expressed great pleas-
ure in her visit and was enthusiastic on the
subject of the welcome given them.
	The program of toasts closed with a poem
by Ruth M. Fox, Vice-President of the Y.
L. N. M. I. A bringing into the stanzas the
motto of the Council “Lead Kindly Light.”
	The toastmistress expressed a fervent wish
that only pleasant memories should be taken
home by the visitors, and the hope of a safe
journey to their homes, and the gathering
closed with farewells—Committees accom-
panying the ladies to their train where final
farewells were exchanged.
	The great regret of the Committees and
guests was that there was so little time to
exchange greetings, there were many of the
guests from whom all wished to hear, but
lack of time rendered it impossible.
	Among those present the writer was most
anxious should he seen and heard were Miss
Marion B. Blackie and Miss M. M. Ander-
son of Scotland, Miss M. E. Creighton of
Carlisle, England, sister of the late Lord
Bishop of London, Miss Wilkinson of Eng-
land, Principal of Swanley Horticultural Col-
lege, Mrs.Willonghby Cummings of Toronto,
Canada, Miss Baelde President of the Natio-
nal Council of Holland, and Misses Van
Vorst Van Boost also of Holland. Mrs.
Leo Grindon of Manchester, England, a
woman well-versed in social science, and
who has published several dissertations on
Shakespeare’s plays, a lady of fine culture
and broad views on religious and social
questions.
	Miss Sadie American and her mother, and

[Column 3]
dear Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman, and
dozens more with and without titles. Mrs.
Anna Hansen who represented the National
Council of Denmark declined to speak on
account of having taken cold, and of hoarse-
ness.
	These, celebrated women represented al-
most every phase of real human life, Woman
suffrage, Peace and Arbitration, White Slave
Traffic, Laws for Women Workers, Protec-
tive Work for children, Public Play Grounds,
Juvenile Courts, Municipal Government,
Women’s Activities in Trades and Professions,
Educational Ideas. Crusade against Tuber-
culosis and for Prohibition. These are only a
few of the subjects which they are studying
and have under discussion.
	There are 23 countries where National
Councils have been organized, and efforts
are in progress to organize National Coun-
cils in Turkey, Finland, Egypt, Russia and
the Argentine Republic.
	In the near future we will give a list of
the names of the women who honored the
citizens with their presence in Salt Lake City
on July 16 and 17, 1909. The occasion was
one never to be forgotten by those who par-
ticipated therein.
	The most honored guests from our own
city and from our own standpoint were Pre-
sident Joseph F. Smith and wife, and Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith of the National
Woman’s Relief Society affiliated with the
National Council of Women of the United
States and of which she is one of the Execu-
tive Committee of nine.
	At the Quinquennial of the International
Council in Toronto, Canada officers were
elected for the time of five years. The Coun-
tess of Aberdeen whose term of office had
expired was re-elected President, the Hon.
Cor. Sec’y Mrs. Maria M. Ogilvie Gordon
elected First Vice-President, Countess Spa-
lette Rasponi of Italy, Second Vice-President,
Frau Marianne Hainisch of Austria, Third
Vice-President, Mrs. Sanford of Canada,
Honorary Treasurer, Dr. Alexander Skogland
of Sweden, Recording Secretary, Dr. Alice
Salomon of Germany, Corresponding Secre-
tary.
	The National Council of the United States
in its Triennial held at Seattle, elected for
the ensuing term of three years, Mrs. Lillian
M. Hollister President; Mrs. Kate Waller
Barratt Vice-President, Mrs. M. Josie Nelson
Treasurer, Mrs. Flo. Jamison Miller Cor.
Sec’y, Dr. Emma E. Bower Rec. Sec‘y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LAURA M. HYDE MINER.
Of all the virtues that unite to frame,
The lofty column reared to Duty's name
Whose summit pencils on the glowing sky
The deeds of those whose names refuse to die,
O’er-crowning all in triumph of device
Is woman's life of love—Self-sacrifice.
O. F. W.
	The news of the demise of Sister Miner
came with a sudden shock to her friends of
former days, those who had known her in-
timately but almost lost sight of her for the
last few years, yet who loved her s[-]ill and
held her in the ties of sacred friendship.
Such women as Laura Miner are as scarce
as pearls; she was a jewel so to speak, full
of intelligence and rich in wisdom, a woman
of excellent judgment, and superior ability.
Her nobility of soul was unquestionable,
and when one can say of her that she pos-
sessed all the virtues of a true Saint of God,
and was eminently qualified to minister in
holy temples, it is the highest encomium
one can receive. Sister Miner officiated in


[Column 1]
the Logan Temple for many years and had
been greatly beloved by her co-laborers.
	Laura H. Miner was a valuable member
of the Board of Directors of the General Re-
lief Society for about seven or eight years,
continui[-]g on the Board sometime after she
moved to Logan, although it was incon-
venient for her to attend meetings. She was
also a member of the Reaper's Social and
was with us at the first meeting when the
name was de[-]ided upon and colors were
chosen, and took part in the literary and
social exercises.
	Sister Miner was a brilliant conversation-
alist, a rare quality in women, a great reader
and good story-teller; she was a writer of
merit of both prose and poetry although
she only occasionally allowed anything writ-
ten by her to appear in print. She was a
woman of culture and fine manners, and of
broad mind and liberal views, genuine and
true to the heart's core; a woman with whom
it was uplifting to have social intercourse,
and fitted to shine in any place at home or
abroad.
	Laura Marinda Hyde was the daughter of
Apostle Orson Hyde, one of the first Quorum
of Apostles of the early days of the Church,
and of Marinda N. Johnson Hyde one of the
most distinguished women of her time; with
the environment of such a home in early
life, she had advantages in education and
home training that carefully prepared her
for wife and motherhood, even though during
those early years of her girlhood the Latter-
day Saints were not in circumstances to af-
ford higher education for their children, be-
ing driven hither and thither, until they
reached these mountain vales.
	Laura was the eldest daughter of her pa-
rents and was born in Kirtland, Ohio, May
21, 1837, she was married to Aurelius Miner
since known as Judge, then a rising young
lawyer fresh from college, May 30, 1859,
a very beautiful and accomplished young
girl, as the writer well remembers.
	Her children now living. (the first born, a
boy, died in infancy) are Dr. David O. Miner
of Nephi, Utah; Laura Elvira, wife of John
McDonald. Jr., of this city; Lavilla, wife of
Wallace Fenton; another son, Frederick
William Miner, Miss Alice Winnefred Miner,
Lillian, wife of Bert Slusser; Florence, wife
of Alvin D. Thompson; Idala, the youngest,
now the wife of J. E. Shepherd.
	Sister Miner leaves beside her own chil-
dren six daughters and two sons; thirteen
grandchildren who deeply mourn her great
loss to them for she was a most affectionate
mother deep down in her very nature;
motherly to many besides her very own, who
also feel keenly her great loss.
	Her own brothers and sisters now living,
children of Orson and Marinda Hyde are
Emily Hyde Chase, very well known and
greatly admired in her palmy days, Alonzo
E. Hyde, and Zina Hyde Bull, all of this
City. Frank Hyde the eldest son died re-
cently and Delia Hyde Ellis, an uncommon-
ly brilliant woman, who died not long ago:
with children and grandchildren there are
living, quite a large number of Marinda
Johnson Hyde's posterity.
	The funeral services of this excellent
woman were held in the Seventeenth ward
chapel on Thursday, August 12, at 4 p. m.,
conducted by Bishop F. S. Tingey. The hall
was beautifully draped in white, by the Re-
lief Society, of which Sister Marinda Hyde
was President from its organization until her
death. The platform was banked with lovely
flowers and the casket in front covered with
flowers rare and delicate tokens of love and

[Column 2]
esteem, emblems of purity and devotion
from the many friends of the family.
	On the Stand were Presidents Joseph F.
Smith and John R. Winder, with other lead-
ing brethren including Hon. W. W. Riter.
The opening hymn was sung by the 17th
ward choir; Lizzie Thomas Edward leading
Soprano, taking part in singing "When first
the glorious light of truth," etc. Prayer was
offered by Seymour B. Young.
	Prof. Fred C. Graham sang in sympathetic
voice "Sometime, We'll Understand."
	Hon. W. W. Riter spoke in very eulogistic
terms of the many delightful qualities of the
deceased and of her staunch and intense
faith in the principles of the Gospel.
	President John R. Winder spoke briefly
of her faith, her purity of life and devotion
and her great works.
	President Joseph F. Smith, who had
known her from his childhood spoke of her
with much depth of feeling, and also of her
highly esteemed mother whom he had
known even more intimately, and preached
a thrilling discourse on the Gospel of life
and salvation.
	Sisters Edward and Winder sang "Who
are these arrayed in w[-]ite." Benediction
was offered by Elder Duncan McAllister and
the casket was borne from the hall followed
by her relatives and friends to its last resting
place on the hillside.
	The writer has known Laura Hyde Miner
from the days of Nauvoo until now, lived very
near her for years on the Whitney corner,
and has always held her very dear as com-
panion, and friend.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TRIENNIAL REPORT OF THE NATIONAL
	WOMAN’S RELIEF SOCIETY.
Madam President, Officers and Members of
	the National Council of Women of the
	United States;
DEAR FRIENDS;—
	The National Woman’s Relief Society
with headquarters in Salt Lake City, Utah,
had its origin in the City of Nauvoo, Ill., at
a called meeting of a few progressive women
held in the Masonic Hall, eighteen in number,
the President of this magnificent Society is
the only living member of that small but
memorable beginning on the seventeenth of
March 1842, sixty-seven years ago. It was
christened then and there by that select com-
pany, The Relief Society, and much charit-
able work was done there during those first
years. Since that time, the Society has
spread abroad until we can truthfully say,
the sun never sets upon this organization.
The Society stands for the broadest funda-
mental principles of charity and philan-
thropy. It has reached nearly all civilized
lands upon the two continents, and has
many branches upon the islands of the sea.
	Enumerating the countries we can include
the United States, Mexico and Canada,
across the Atlantic—England, Scotland, Ire-
land and Wales, Norway, Sweden and Den-
mark with some of the adjacent islands, and
very recently the land of the midnight sun.
Other European countries are Germany,
Switzerland, Greece, Turkey, Holland and 
Belgium; also Australia, Tasmania, New
Zealand, South Africa, Sandwich Islands
and Samoa, thus it is evident the Society is
International as well as National in scope
and character. All are included under the
General President and staff of officers, who
look after the entire Society, but necessarily
there are many Presidents with their local

[Column 2]
officers, who have charge of divisions and
subdivisions; all harmoniously working for
the best good in the given Society, and for
the betterment of the united whole.
	Much of the information needed is given
by correspondence, and through the Woman’s
Exponent, a paper devoted to women and
to the work of this Society in particular. It
is the oldest woman’s paper in the Rocky
Mountain region established in June 1872.
	Women missionaries visit annually under
the direction of the President, and attend
conferences held at designated places at a 
stated time. These missionaries are inde-
fatigable in their efforts, often encountering
many difficulties, giving freely of their time
and ability with zeal and devotion in the
work of uplifting humanity; not only in 
public speaking, but in special instruction,
to women, who have not had the larger op-
portunities of gaining knowledge and educa-
tion, sometimes not even special home train-
ing.
	We maintain that mothers need help out-
side of their own circle; a sort of develop-
ment that reaches their inner consciousness
and causes an awakening, leading into larger
fields of interest and thought, as well as
bringing them into closer relations with real
life; always uplifting in its tendency, cheer-
ing the spirit, and strengthening the body,
making life’s burdens easier by affiliation
and union of purpose in many directions in
neighborhoods and groups, withal teaching
the practicality of the saying of the Savior,
“Love thy neighbor as thyself.”
	Our work is large indeed, covering a vast
area of country, requiring other languages
to be spoken, and the knowledge of human
affairs in the realm of woman’s kingdom,
and an expansion of mind and soul, heart
and brain to the highest excellence of attain-
ment within the range of woman’s possibili-
ties.
	We are obliged to deal in generalities to
give an idea of our methods of work for the
advancement of those who are out of “the
schools,” so designated, but have entered
the highest school of the world, The Home.
	Home life, parenthood, the problem that
if solved by the loftiest and grandest aims
and motives would bring to pass, the most
perfect civilization of communities and 
countries, revolutionizing society, and there-
by establishing the broadest philanthropy
the world has ever known.
	But however we may idealize our Society
the work must be done by physical, mental,
moral and spiritual activities, in all the
avenues that lead to usefulness and adapta-
bility; there must be facilities; houses, halls,
machinery, storehouses, libraries, and will-
ing hearts and hands for the accomplishment
of the various purposes undertaken.
	The Relief Society School of Nurses under
the immediate direction of the general Soci-
ety with a woman physician as Instructor,
aided by lectures from other celebrated med-
ical men and women has been a grand fac-
tor in our charitable work, and was fully ex-
plained in last years’ annual report. This
school has graduated hundreds of nurses,
who have passed a rigid examination and
gone out among the people under the direc-
tion of the Superintendent of Nurses who
takes charge of them after graduation.
	During this last year the Society has ap-
propriated about one thousand dollars to
purchase linen and material desired for use
in the L. D. S. Groves Hospital in this City,
and the articles have been cut and made by
the women of the Society freely as a labor
of love.


The storing of grain by this Society is one
unique feature, something never before un-
dertaken by women. It was begun in 1876,
and has been of value and importance in
our own community, and has also given us
an opportunity to relieve want in times of
calamity, not only near home, in San Fran-
ci co, but abroad in China.
	It is not a joke as some seem to think,
but to those who have known the times of
scarcity a sacred obligation.
	In last years report we mentioned the ex-
pectation of the Woman’s Building being
ready for occupancy in June of this year,
1909, but it has not yet been finished; we
hope now it will be completed in October
of this year.
	We cannot close this official report with-
out an expression of appreciation of our be-
loved and venerable President Mrs. Bath-
sheba W. Smith whose life long efforts in
the interests of philanthropic endeavor have
ever been a loyal example and an inspira-
tion, and her beautiful life is of itself a
blessing and a benediction.
	It is always sad to record the passing of
women in the prime of life, and in the midst
of usefulness, but in this instance it is un-
avoidable, however deep our sorrow at the
loss. Since our last report in November
1908 two of the valued members of our
Board of Directors of the National Woman’s
Relief Society have gone behind the vail.
Mrs. Annie Taylor Hyde, First Vice-Presi-
dent of this Society passed peacefully away,
March 12, 1909, in the full tide of her use-
fulness, being stricken down only a few
months previous to her passing away. De-
ceased has filled several positions of trust
and responsibility for which she was emi-
nently qualified by nature and education;
Mrs. Hyde attended the Triennial Session
of the N. C.W. held in Washington in 1902,
as Proxy for the President, and will doubt-
less be remembered by many of the ladies
who were there at that time.
	Mrs. Rebecca E. Mantle Little another of
our Board, passed to the beyond, May 29,
1909; she was a graduate of the Utah Uni-
versity and one of the Regents of that Insti-
tution for a number of years; and had taken
a degree of Bachelor of Science. Mrs. Little
attended the Executive Session of the Na-
tional Council of Women held in Toledo,
Ohio, in April, 1906, and became a Patron
of the Council while there, and took an ac-
tive part in its proceedings. These noble
women will be greatly missed in the Society
for their valuable service in the cause of
higher education, equal suffrage and uni-
versal pr gress of the world at large.
	In the joyful and loving service of minis-
tering to the needs and sorrows of others,
we find our own souls benefited, and our or-
ganization stands for the alleviation of the
woes of humanity, so far as human aid and
sympathy can extend, and the spiritual up-
lifting may be exercised in the tenderest
and most far reaching way, always keeping
in mind the motto of the Council the “Gold-
en Rule” To do unto others as you would
have them do unto you.”
	With greetings from the President, the of-
ficers and members of the National Woman’s
Relief Society and an ardent desire to co-
operate with the National Council in pro-
moting the efforts made for the progress of
humanity along all the avenues that lead to
justice and righteousness, we are fraternally
yours
		Respectfully submitted,
			EMMELINE B. WELLS,
		General Secretary N.W. R. S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OUTLINE FOR MOTHERS WORK.
	MORGAN STAKE.
Lesson 1. The Sin of Gossip.
	“Nay speak no ill, a kindly word,
	Can never leave a sting behind.”
	(a) Of the many beautiful precepts taught
by Jesus none is more important or less re-
garded than “Judge not that ye be not judg-
ed” (Matt. 7: 1). “A good tree cannot
bring forth evil fruit” (Matt. 7: 18).

Lesson 2. What Influence has Evil Speak-
	ing.
	(a) Does it harm the speaker (Psalm 34:
13; I Peter 3: 10, 11). Its Influence on chil-
dren. (b) Explain how it may mar the life,
or place a dark blot on the character of the
one spoken of, also the influence it has on
the public, (James 3: 5, 6, 8; Prov. 25: 23—
26: 18, 20).
	“Be not the first to speak it
	If you a fault should see.”

Lesson 3. Parable of the Ten Talents
	(Matt. 25: 14-30).
	What talent do I possess and do I culti-
vate it. Patience, Faith, Cheerfulness, the
power to instruct or comfort others, or any-
thing that helps to make life better and
brighter are talents that should be cultivat-
ed.

Lesson 4. Language in the Home.
	Give meaning of Mother Tongue, “He that
hath a perverse tongue falleth into mis-
chief.” Impure language displeasing unto
the Lord read James 3; Matt. 12: 36. Cor-
rect language necessary at all times and in
all places.

Lesson 5. Habit.
	How shall we form good habits? How
shall we teach the value of good habits to
our children (read Improvement Era, March
1903, p.377; Juvenile Instructor, March 15,
1900; Young Woman’s Journal, October
1906).

Lesson 6. Proper Home Ideals.
	The love of the beautiful is a handmaid
of civilization, “For as a man thinketh in his
heart so is he” (Prov. 23: 7). “Be ye per-
fect even as your Father in Heaven is per-
fect,” (Matt. 5: 48; II Samuel 22: 31). Aspi-
ration to excel in everything that is good or
praiseworthy should be instilled,encouraged
and developed in our children. Why? (Ar-
ticles of Faith 13). The love of order and
cleanliness should be so highly developed
that every member of the family would be
uncomfortable when conditions were other-
wise.

Lesson 7. Social Purity.
	“To be socially pure one must store the
mind with pure enobling thoughts.” “Bles-
sed are the pure in heart for they shall see
God (Matt., 5: 8).
	(a) Avoid slander, vulgar language and im-
politeness.
	(b) Overcome selfish tendencies.
	(c) Cultivate truthfulness, integrity, good-
ness and pure thoughts (Eph. 5: 3, 4).

Lesson 8. Affection.
	1. Love of parents for each other.
	2. Of parents for children.
	3. Of children for parents.

[Column 2]
	Aim: Love in the home is necessary to
gain and maintain the highest ideal in home
government. General truth—Love induces
patience, gentleness, long suffering, etc.
	Suggestions: 1. If we love one another
God dwelleth in us, and His love is perfect-
ed in us, (John 4: 13). Thou shalt live to-
gether in love (Doc. and Cov. 42, 45; see
Doc. and Cov. 121: 41-46). Love may be
encouraged by a proper consideration of one
anothers’ feelings.

Lesson 9. Temperance and the Word of
	of Wisdom.
	Effects of example and how extensive?
What physical benefit? What spiritual bene-
fits to be derived there from?

Lesson 10.
	How the father should counsel his sons—
work as an educator.

Lesson 11. Companionship of mothers and
	daughters.
	Motherhood and its responsibilities. 

Lesson 12.
	(a) Visiting the sick, effects of cheerful
company, looking after the poor. Improve-
ment in home life.
	(b) Responsibility of teaching the gospel
a very essential duty, (Mark 15. 16.
			LYDIA RICH,
					President.
			MARY J. WELCH,
			MARYETTE WALDRON,
					Counselors.


AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
[LIFE AND TRAVELS OF NANCY M. TRACY.]
	I do not expect to write one tenth of my
experience but merely to give an outline of
some of the incidents in my life’s history, it
is impossible for me to give exact dates as
I never kept a memorandum, therefore I
could not make a complete history.
	I was born in the town of Henderson,
Jefferson County, New York State, of good-
ly parents, Aaron Alexander and Betsy Alex-
ander, on the 14th of May, 1816. My father
died when I was four years old; he left my
mother in comfortable circumstances with
a small farm; she had four small children,
the eldest but six years old. Mother felt
that she could not take care of the farm and
sold the place and was to receive the money
for it, the man that bought it failed, in busi-
ness and never paid her, consequently it left
her destitute and she had to put out her
three oldest children. I was the second
child; it fell to my lot to go to my grand-
father on mother’s side, to live in Herkimer
Co., 100 miles from mother. I was now five
years old; my uncles and aunts were all
grown and most of them married and gone
away. I was quite a favorite in the family
and kept in school most of the time, but as
grew up I learned to spin flax and wool,
and also to weave cloth in the summer, and
then go to school in the winter; when I was
thirteen years old, there was quite a revival
in the town among the Methodists; I had
been trained always to go to their church
and Sunday school in which I took great
delight, for I had a religious turn of mind,
and when this reformation broke out I felt
as though I wanted to get religion and be
happy as others seemed to be. I tried to
get that change of heart and would go off


[Column 1]
alone by myself and take the Bible and read
and pray but I could feel no different, so I
never joined their church; when I was fifteen
years of age my mother came to see me and
stayed one year; I became so much attached
to her that I could not bear the idea of be-
ing separated from her again; when she was
preparing to leave I told her I wanted to go
with her; she finally consented. I knew I
was leaving a good home where I had been
kindly cared for, and knew too that mother
had no home of her own; still I had a great
anxiety to go and take the change of a home.
I was going to school at the time, I bade the
school and my friends good-bye and went
with my mother. When we arrived at Jef-
ferson Co. I was again placed in school for
the winter, in the spring I was offered a
school to teach but I declined; I thought I
was too young being only sixteen years old;
so I went to live with Abram Tracy’s family,
his wife was my mother’s cousin; while there
I became acquainted with his brother Moses
Tracy, an attachment sprung up between
us and on the 15th day of July we were
married; this was in the year 1832. My
husband then took me home to his father’s
to live until we could get a home of our
own; in the fall we went to house-keeping,
the winter passed off very pleasantly with
us; and in the spring of 1833 there was quite
a sensation created by a new set of minis-
ters that came around preaching, called
Mormonism; we heard all sorts of stories
and did not know what to think of them,
such frightful stories were told; at length we
heard of an appointment, that one David
W. Patten was going to preach about two
miles from where we lived a curiosity seized
me and I felt I must go and hear him; so
three of us went together. Ensign Tracy’s
wife Lydia, Margaret Minor, and myself: and
to our astonishment beheld a tall stately
looking man with piercing black eyes; he
arose and gave out a hymn we expected to
see some one hardly in human form; from
what we had heard, but instead I could at a
glance see the noble spirit he possessed
beaming in his countenance; and when he
began to speak it was with such force and
power before he was half through I could
have borne my testimony to the truth of the
Gospel and the doctrine he was preaching;
never before had I heard the true Gospel as
the Savior and his Apostles had taught it
while they were on the earth; but this man
had now given us a pure Gospel sermon and
I believed it with all my heart, and would
have gladly gone down into the waters of
baptism, but I wanted my husband to hear
it first, and come along with me; these
Elders preached often in the neighborhood
and many became convinced of the truth of
the Gospel and were baptized and finally
quite a large branch of the Church was
organized in the town of Ellisburgh. My
husband did not seem to believe as readily
as I would have liked, but still I believed
when he would give himself up to investi-
gate the Gospel he would embrace it for I
knew he was honest of heart.
	November the 25th, 1833, our first son
was born and for a long time I lay as it were
at death’s door; the presiding Elder of the
branch use to come to our house and would
talk about the Gospel and its ordinances,
and I felt a great desire to be administered
to, but I was surrounded by unbelievers, and
had not obeyed the ordinance of baptism, as
had felt constrained to do and felt that I
was unworthy to ask for the blessing but I
determined if the Lord would let me live to
go forth in the discharge of what I knew was

[Column 2]
my duty; in the spring my husband seemed
to take hold and commenced going to meet-
ing and studying the Bible and finally to my
great satisfaction said he was ready to be
baptized. I had measurably regained my
health and on the 10th day of May, 1834,
we were both baptized by Elder Thomas
Dutcher.
	At that early day the opposite power was
at work filling the minds of the people with
prejudice the pulpit and press had com-
menced a tirade against the Mormons and
my relatives thought I had brought a great
stain upon myself and them in embracing
such a delusion, as they called it; they
would send me the papers of the day with
the most vile slander and falsehoods to see
if they could not reclaim me; but I was not
moved; I felt humble and felt to thank God
that my soul was at last satisfied, thus far;
that I had embraced truth instead of error
and it was marvelous to me how I had es-
caped while in tender years of uniting with
some of the religions of the day, I was
brought up so strictly amongst them I felt
to acknowledge the hand of God that I had
been preserved with my heart pure to listen
to the voice of the good Shepherd. The Gos-
pel spread and a good many large branches
were organized through Jefferson Co. and
adjoining counties; the gifts and blessings
of the Gospel were poured out upon those
that had embraced it in rich profusion. One
instance which I will relate that came di-
rectly under my observation of the gift of
healing.
		(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY SCHOOL OF
NURSES.
	The Presidency and General Board of the
Relief Society announce that the next Relief
Society School of Nurses taught under their
direction will commence Monday, September
20, 1909, and continue eight months in Salt
Lake City- Dr. Margaret C. Roberts will be
the instructor. It is requested that the
Stake Presidents will at once consult with
their Ward Presidents for the purpose of see
lecting intelligent, bright and energetic young
women of good moral character to take this
course in nursing.
	In recommending this course in nursing
given through the Relief Society, it should
be remembered that the students graduating
will have the privilege of paying for their
tuition with their work among the needy, and
should any of t[-]ose coming from a distance
desire to gain some practical experience in
Salt Lake City before returning to their
homes, or at any time, the General Super-
intendent will take pleasure in helping them
to do so.
	The tuition for the course in nursing will
be $10.00 and it is expected that the Relief
Society organization in each Ward will pay

[Column 2]
the tuition fee for their representative, al-
though any student who wishes to pay the
tuition herself may do so if willing to accept
and sign the Relief Society Nurse Contract
a copy of which follows:
CONTRACT.
	In consideration of obtaining instruction
free in the Relief Society Nurse School, I
promise to answer all calls mads upon me
by the Superintendent of Relief Society
Nurses, or acting Superintendent where I
live, to give forty days charity nursing when-
ever required, and to nurse for whatever re-
muneration that may be designated by said
Superintendent, or acting Superintendent,
for the term of one year after graduation,
and I also agree to consult my Superinten-
dent in relation to all cases of nursing in
which I engage.
	Those who do not wish to sign this con-
tract may attend the school by paying the
regular fee of $50.00.
	Homes, where the students may assist
with the work for their board and room, can
always be furnished with good Mormon fam-
lies.
	We sincerely trust the members of the Re-
lief Society realize the value of this course
to young ladies as a part of their education.
	The cost of books will be $3.00 to $5.00.
For further particulars write to Mrs. Phebe
Y. Beatie; 55 North, West Temple Street,
Salt Lake City,
BATHSHEBA W. SMITH, President,
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Gen'l Sec'y.
PHEBE Y. BEATIE,
Chairman R. S. School of Nurses.
EMMA A. EMPEY,
Gen'l Supt. of Graduated Nurses.


OBSTETRIC SCHOOL.
	Margaret C. Roberts, M. D. will com-
mence her School in Obstetrics October 11,
1909. $50.00 Tuition.
	Students attending this school can attend,
free of charge, the Relief Society Nurse
School which will also be taught by Dr.
Roberts.
	It is suggested that the Presidents of the
Relief Society everywhere confer with their
Bishops and with Presidents of the Young
Ladies’ Mutual Improvement Associations
on the important subject of having skilful
midwives in their respective communities.
	For further information communicate with
		DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS
			79 C Street, Salt Lake City
				Telephone 2002

R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to letter the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 38.					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER, 1909.					No. 3.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
Why I Hate the Liquor Traffic........................	17
Autobiography................................................	17
In Memoriam..................................................	19
International Council of Women....................
	.......................Marla M. Ogilvie Gordon	21
Relief Society Stake Reports: Woodruff........	19
	Cassia—Liberty—Yellowstone—Nebo..	23
	Bingham—Sevier....................................	24
Editorial:—Relief Society Conference...........	20
	Reminiscences........................................	20
	Editorial Note.........................................	21
	Chronicle of the Relief Society—IV.......	21
Poetry:—World of Fair Women...Lippincott’s	17
	Echoes................................Ellis R. Shipp	19


WORLD OF FAIR WOMEN.
	The Golden Legacy,
My mother had no gold to share,
	Nor land nor herd nor merchandise,
(My brother has her silken hair,
	My sister has her azure eyes!)
To me she left no comeliness
	That to the face or form belong,
But oh, oue gift I do possess—
	The blessed heritage of song!

Long, long ago, in cradle days,
	Her sweet voice would my heart beguile,
When I could nothing do but gaze
	Into the heaven of her smile!

I learned the songs in later years,
	And with her sang them o’er and o’er,
Oh, memory, thy lute and tears
	Must meet and mingle evermore!

’Twas “Hush, my Babe”—as fades the light
	I hear her softly, sweetly croon—
Then “Afton Water,” “Stilly Night,”
	“O Sanctissima” and “Silver Moon.”
She sang them with such tender art—
	The art that only mothers know—
And tied the tunes around my heart.
	Else it had broken long ago!
						—Lippincott’s.


WHY I HATE THE LIQUOR TRAFFIC.
	Speech by Governor  Hanley before the
Indiana Republican Convention, April 1908.
	Personally I have seen so much of the
evils of the liquor traffic in the last four
years, so much of its economic waste, so
much of its physical ruin, so much of its
mental blight, so much of its tears and
heartache, that I have come to regard the
business as one that must be held and con-
trolled by strong and effective laws. I bear
no malice towards those engaged in the busi-
ness, but I hate the traffic. I hate its every
phase. I hate it for its intolerance. I 
hate it for its arrogance. I hate it for its 
hypocrisy. I hate it for its cant and craft
and false pretense. I hate it for its com-
mercialism. I hate it for its greed and avar-
ice. I hate it for its sordid love of gain at
any price.
	I hate it for its domination in politics. I 
hate it for its corrupting influence in civic
affairs. I hate it for its incessant effort to
debauch the suffrage of the country; for the
cowards it makes of public men. I hate it
for its utter disregard of law. I hate it for
its ruthless trampling of the solemn compacts
of state constitutions.
	I hate it for the load it straps to labor’s


back, for the palsied hands it gives to toil;
for its wounds to genius, for the tragedies of
its might-have-beens. I hate it for the hu-
man wrecks it has caused. I hate it for the
alms-houses it peoples, for the prisons it
fills, for the insanity it begets, for the count-
less graves in potter’s fields.
	It hate it for the mental ruin it imposes
upon its victims, for its spiritual blight, for
its moral degradation. I hate it for the
hearts it has broken. I hate it for the mal-
ice it has planted in the hearts of men—for
its poison, for its bitterness—for the dead
sea fruit with which it starves their souls.
	I hate it for the grief it causes womanhood
—the scalding tears, the hopes deferred, the
strangled aspirations, its burden of want and
care.
	I hate it for its heartless cruelty to the
aged, the infirm and the helpless; for the
shadow it throws upon the lives of children,
for its monstrous injustice to blameless little
ones.
	I hate it as virtue hates vice, as truth
hates error, as righteousness hates sin, as
justice hates wrong, as liberty hates tyranny,
as freedom hates oppression.
	I hate it as Abraham Lincoln hated slav-
ery. And as he sometimes saw in prophetic
vision, the end of slavery and the coming
of the time when the sun should shine and
the rain should fall upon no slave in all the
republic, so I sometimes seem to see the
end of this unholy traffic, the coming of the
time when, if it does not wholly cease to be,
it shall find no safe habitation anywhere be-
neath “Old Glory’s” stainless flag.


[Column 1]
			AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
[LIFE AND TRAVELS OF NANCY M. TRACY.]
		(Continuation from page 16.)
	A young girl about 20 years of age,
Emily Fuller, was staying for a few days at
Brother Homer Blakesley’s, our presiding
Elder’s house; she was taken violently ill
and kept on getting worse until finally she
went into convulsions; she was a good
Latter-day Saint but it seemed the evil one
was determined to destroy her; Brother
Blakesley had gone away to fill an appoint-
ment 18 miles from home; there was not an
Elder within 14 miles; at last this Elder
Thomas Dutcher was sent for to come and
administer to this girl; it had now been
about twenty-four hours since she was taken
ill, every thing that could be done for her
was done but of no avail; the evil spirit
raved in cramping her body. She was in
this state when Brother Dutcher came; he
immediately repaired to a room alone and
prayed mighty for faith and strength in God
that he might have power to rebuke the des-
troyer; and when he came out and went into
the room to her bedside he laid his hands
upon her head and with the authority of a
man clothed upon with the spirit and power
of the Priesthood of God commanded her
to arise and be made whole from that mo-
ment; she obeyed and arose although very
weak, she called for water to wash and a
comb to arrange her hair and was indeed
healed; she became well. This fact I bear

[Column 2]
testimony of and there is nothing but truth in
this statement and I think it is in place to
mention it in my narrative.
	Brother Joseph Smith, the Prophet, had a
gathering place for the Saints in Kirtland,
Ohio, where the Saints were beginning to
gather and had begun to build a Temple as
they had been commanded in the spring of
1835; we felt that we with one or two others
in the branch would like to gather to this
place, consequently began making prepara-
tions to go to Kirtland. We had visited
Herkimer Co. in the winter for I felt to leave
my testimony to my grandfather’s house be-
fore leaving for the west; for I felt I was
leaving them forever; there had never been
an Elder in that part of the state, so my re-
latives knew nothing of Mormonism; they
were glad to see me; but would not listen
to the message we had to give them, so we
bade them adieu, and went home to prepare
for our journey west. We had a fine span of
horses and new wagon, so we made up our
minds to go by team, the distance was some
over 400 miles; we took a light load and
had money to bear our expenses; one of my
husband’s cousins, Philinda Colvin, was go-
ing with us. The time had now come for
us to bid farewell to all our relatives, and
friends although they predicted that we
would soon return again; but it will be seen
that in this they were mistaken. We made
the distance of 400 miles in 11 days, we had
a pleasant journey, only camped in the wa-
gon two nights on the road, but instead cal-
led for our meals and lodging at the hotel
we had not as yet learned to deprive our-
selves of comfort and little did we realize
what we would have to endure for the Gos-
pel’s sake, I think it was somewhere near
the first of June, we got to Kirtland; we
went to meeting on Sunday, it was held in-
side the Temple walls; the roof was partly
on, the Prophet Joseph was on the stand;
he addressed the Saints that day; I never
will forget with what satisfaction I sat and
listened to the teachings of an inspired man
of God.
	My husband rented a room of Brother Ly-
man Sherman, and we moved into it; every
thing was new to us, and hard to get settled
and commence anew to keep house, em-
ployment was hard to get; but we got along
very well, sometimes my husband would get
work with his team which made our living;
sometimes he worked on the Temple, the
work on that house was progressing and it
was intended to be finished during the fall
and winter; so it could be dedicated in the
spring.
	In October 24th, my second son was born;
when he was two months old, we made a
feast. Brother Harry Brown and wife united
with us and we were to receive our pa-
triarchal blessings under the hands of father
Joseph Smith. We invited until the house
was full, partook of refreshments and wine,
received our blessings and had instructions
from some of the Twelve Apostles, that were
present; and it was a feast to our souls; this
was in the winter; in the spring the Temple
was finished and dedicated; the dedication
lasted two days and they were happy days
too, for the Spirit of God rested on the house


[Column 1]
and on the people; angels appeared and the
fitting hymn, that was composed for the oc-
casion, was realized, “The Spirit of God
like a fire is burning.” I felt that I would
always like to enjoy the sweet communion
with the holy spirit, as I enjoyed it in that
house. Solemn Assemblies were called, or-
dinances administered to the Saints; the
Elders went from house to house blessing
the Saints and administering the sacrament
and it was truly a day of rejoicing with the
Saints of God, and surely nerved us up for
what we afterwards had to contend with.
	There had a portion of the Saints settled in
Jackson county, Missouri, but the inhabi-
tants would not let them stay there, altho’
they had paid for the land, they forced
them to leave the county. The brethren
with their families then went to Clay coun-
ty. This was going on while we were yet in
Kirtland, Ohio, we had been talking of go-
ing to Missouri. Brother Joseph had bor-
rowed $50.00 of us, and we could not fit up
without it, so my husband went to Brother
Joseph to ask counsel about going, and told
him that he did not need the money, if he
did not go. Brother Joseph thought a mo-
ment and then said, “Brother Tracy, it is the
will of the Lord that you should go, and
your money shall be forthcoming, tho’ I do
not know now how I am going to get it,” so
we made up our minds to go, That sum-
mer there were many Elders sent out from
the house of the Lord, and that spring. My
husband belonged to the lesser priesthood,
he greatly desired to make a short trip to
New York, to once more bear a faithful tes-
timony to his father’s house and his friends
in general, before we went to Missouri. The
time was short for we wanted to go by the
middle of June and this was in April, so
Brother Harry Brown and my husband put
their families together, and they two breth-
ren started together for New York, were gone
six weeks, when they returned home and be-
gan to fix up for our journey of one thousand
miles, this time with ox teams, with two
families in one wagon. Brother Dimick
Huntington’s family of five, and our own
with four in family; two other families go-
ing in the company with a team each these
were Brothers Ezra Parrish and W. M. Cor-
ey, four families in all, and three wagons.
It will be seen that this was not going to be
a pleasure trip like unto our first.
	We were nearly ready to start when Broth-
er Joseph Smith the Prophet came to us
and said, “Here, Brother Tracy is your
money. I have just sold a half-acre lot; I
told you I would get it for you.”
	We bade adieu to Kirtland, where we had
lived one year in unalloyed peace and hap-
piness and received many rich blessings in
connection with the Saints of God, which I
have often said better fitted and prepared us
for what was before us, and I often thought,
“Shall we enjoy ourselves when we get to
Missouri as we have in Kirtland?”
	All things being made ready, we started
on our journey. We had no tents, so we
made our beds in our wagons. In general
we got along slowly, the weather was get-
ting pretty warm; we had the summer be-
fore us. There was nothing occurred to mar
our peace until we came into the borders
of Missouri, when one day we came to a
stream of water with a very narrow bridge,
and got to the center, when one of the oxen
dropped and began to throw itself; in its
struggles we expected to see the wagon with
the children thrown into the stream, but the
men got him loose from the other ox and
it died and was dragged off by the brethren.

[Column 2]
They could not get a team across to draw
the wagon off the bridge, so the men drew
it off as best they could, then with their
teams took that wagon and family along un-
til we got to a settlement, where the men
got another ox. Then we went on a day or
two, when one of Brother Corey’s children
was taken very sick and died. We were
quite a distance from any settlement so we
camped, and the brethren made a rude cof-
fin for the little child and buried it there in
the forest.
	Sister Corey thought this a great trial, and
so it was, but the worst was yet to come.
We went on till within one hundred and
fifty miles of our destination, Far West,
when all of a sudden Brother Corey went
out of his mind and raved and tore about
and seemed to want to kill the rest of them.
He would not be administered to, and they
could not hold him; he was a large, power-
ful man. At last he gave up and seemed
harmless; the brethren counseled together
and thought it better to stop for a few days
to see if he would not recover, but he never
rallied again. We went a few miles to a
settlement, because our means were limited,
to see if we could get something to make
him more comfortable. We found an empty
log cabin which the owner gave us leave to
go into. My own little boy was shaking with
the ague almost every day, and I had this
sick man to take care of; his wife took to
her bed, and three more of the children were
taken sick. Brother Parrish had gone on his
way, and Brother Huntington had got a
house a half a mile from us, so the burden
fell upon my husband and myself to take
care of tho sick. He would go out and
work by the day and get what necessaries
he could for his labor and bring in at night.
	Brother Corey lived about one week after
we stopped in this place. I was alone with
the sick family with the exception of a wo-
man that lived near, when the husband
and father of this family died, but it seemed
that I was nerved up in body and spirit
to do my duty, and it was marvelous to me
how I endured what I was called upon to
passthrough at that time, but the Lord gave
me strength for my day and trial.
	We went to work and prepared this man
for his burial. My husband got him a
coffin made, although it was rather rough,
but we did all we could, and the best we
could under the circumstances, I think.
There were men came to help bury him his
wife held up to take her last look upon him,
and then he was buried a short distance
from the house.
	Well, we were not going to forsake the rest
of the sick, so we stayed on and took care of
them until they were so far recovered that
we felt justified in leaving them, for the wid-
ow concluded to go no further that year.
We had gathered some provisions, enough
to last a month qr so, and we prepared to
start again. It was now getting late in the
season, my child was better and we wanted
to finish up our travels before cold weather.
Before we left the family that let us have
the house to stop in, they had been very
kind to us, prepared dinner and invited us
to come over and partake with them; we
went, and I can truly say that I never sat at
a table spread with luxuries that I enjoyed
as I did that meal; it consisted of fresh veni-
son, sweet potatoes, com bread and coffee.
It surely was a great treat to us, as we had
not had the privilege to get ourselves a
decent meal since we had been there. We
bade these friends good by (their name was
Birch). This was in Randolph county.

[Column 3]
	We went on and gotto our journey’s end 
towards the middle of November, and
camped. There was not a house finished in
Far West, for the Saints had just moved in
from Clay county and were in destitute cir-
cumstances. They had now been driven
from Jackson county into Clay county, and
from there into Caldwell county. It seemed
that there was no resting place for the Saints
of God, for persecution followed them up;
but this was still another testimony, for in
all ages when God had people on the earth
they had been persecuted in like manner.
But the Saints soon built up a city, and felt
tc trust in God, knowing they had been
commanded to come out of Babylon, and
gather together, that they may not be par-
takers of her plagues, that would soon be
poured out upon the wicked.
	My husband went to work with a will;
timber was handy, he soon put up a log
cabin. There were no saw mills, so he had.
to make the best use of the timber as it
was. He got straight grained oak and split
out boards for the roof and floor and door,
no window, dirt chimney and fireplace.
This rude structure was put together in
about two weeks ready for us to go into,
for the cold and storms were getting severe.
	How I did appreciate the shelter from the
rude blasts of December! But what next?
Our food was gone, and no alternative but
for my husband to go into an adjoining
county and seek for employment to get us
something to live upon. My two little boys
had come down with whooping cough, but
their father had to leave us, and went thirty-
five miles over the bleak prairie with a
team. He got some work and started home
with two barrels of corn and one hundred
pounds of coarse flour, but the cold was so
ntense he almost perished on the prairie.
At one time he felt himself going to sleep;
he thought he was freezing, but was so
numb it was with great exertion that he got
out of the wagon. He finally got the use of
his limbs, but dared not get into the wagon
any more; at last he got home safe, with our
winter supply of food, for what he had got
would be our dependence for he could go no
more, but deer was plentiful and venison
was a great help to our winter’s supply.
	The little boys did not get over their
cough until spring, they had itvery hard.
We had plenty of wood, which was a great
blessing, and the deer were fat and I could
make candles of their tallow for our lights.
We were happy, and felt that the Lord was
ever mindful of those that trusted in Him,
and we never felt to murmur nor complain.
	When spring came my husband entered a
piece of land three miles from Far West,
planted corn and other things and we raised
quite a crop that season, and all things
moved along pleasantly that summer.
Brother Joseph Smith, the prophet, his father
and brother, came up to Far West, so we
had the prophet and patriarch with us.
again. In this blessing we felt to rejoice,
that we had the privilege from time to time
of listening to the words of life and salva-
tion that flowed from the prophet’s lips.
		(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Mrs. Malvina M. McKeever of Roxbury,
Mass., is to establish a training school for
nurses in Manila. It is to be under the con-
trol of the bureau of education, and Filipino
girls are to be the students. Mrs. McKeever
served as a nurse in the Spanish War and
later was matron in the Civil Hospital at
Manila.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ECHOES.

’Mid the vernal vales of Echo,
	Hemmed on every side with hills,
Towering cliffs like old cathedrals
	Sending back re-echoing trills—
Vibrant notes through mountain crevice— 
	Towers formed by unseen hand—
Pulpit rock where weary wanderers
	Saw their valiant prophet stand.
Now his voice, though long since silent,
	Echoes still through Utah’s vales.
Echoes in the hearts of nations 
	With the truth that never fails.

Now the iron horse in fury
	Plods its pond’rous course along,
O’er these plains so fraught with story—
	Thundering echoes now prolong!
“Witches court,’’ strange freak of nature,
	In fantastic shadows lie—
And the lone tower in the distance
	Rears her turrets to the sky—
Where Pelaris old and stately
	May perchance his sentry keep,
Guarding well these sacred valleys
	Traversed first by pilgrim feet.

From the flitting bird on eerie—
	From the murmuriug streamlet’s flow—
From the tinkling herds in valley—
	Echoing murmurs come and go,
Telling of the grand achievements,
	Of our noble pioneers,
Of privations, toil and hardship,
	Bravely borne for many years,
Now the harvest of their labors
	Seen in plenty all around,
Homes of comfort, holy temples,
	Where their guerdon they have found.
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
	The following letters of condolence were
sent by the Waterloo Ward Relief Society
after the severe losses sustained by two of
its members, one losing within two weeks a
husband and beautiful daughter, and the
other her husband.

Dear Sister Goss:—
	We, the officers, and members of the Re-
lief Sociesy desire to express to you our
heartfelt sympathy in the double loss that
has recently come to you. We realize dear
sister that words are but feeble, in giving
comfort in this hour of great trial, for well
we know that only He, who guards the lilies
of the field can give you that comfort and
support, which you really need at this try-
ing time and He will, we promise you, if
you but go to Him in humble prayer.
	In the passing away of Brother Goss,
whose life was already well spent, and who
had for so long been a great sufferer, we feel
sure you can acknowledge the hand of our
Father. And how thankful we mothers
should bo when we can see our loved part-
ners laid peacefully away, after years of en-
deavor, full of faith in Jesus Christ, and the
Gospel so dear to us all.
	On he other hand the loss of your dear
Louise must indeed be hard for you. Not
only her sweet, loving, unselfish influence
will be missed by you, but the substantial
financial aid she has been able, through her
untiring efforts as a nurse, to give you.
Truly it does seem that the young, loving,
useful children might be spared to comfort
and bless the parents as age creeps upon
them in return for the many sacrifices made
by them. But God knoweth best. We must
bow in submission to His will and surely
He will not fail in making up to those who
trust Him that which now must seem an
aching void. Thank Him that you still
have other children who will rally round
you perhaps as never before, to take the
place in a measure of her now gone

[Column 2]
beyond. And when the question “Why”
comes, as it often will, read long and ponder
the words of Isaiah 37, wherein he says,
the righteous aro taken from the evil that is
to come. Surely Louise, in all her purity is
one of these. Your husband too, now sing-
ing songs of praise with her, in mansions
far beyond would not return, nor would we
call them back. God bless and comfort you
dear Sister. May the dying words of your
beloved husband that, we your sisters keep
you busy in the Relief Society work, find
echo in your soul, that you may always be
with us in our glorious cause is the earnest
prayer and desire of your sisters
			HELEN M. SPERRY,
			MARIA S. LIDDLE,
			MARTHA THOMPSON,
		Presidency Waterloo Relief Society.

Dear Sister Burrows:—
	In the recent trial that has come to you,
in the passing away of your beloved part-
ner, and husband, we the sisters of the
Waterloo Relief Society desire to express
our sympathy and love for you as a fellow-
worker among us for many years. And we
say God bless and comfort you in your afflic-
tion. And we promise you He will. May
your own bodily suffering cease, and may
peace and joy fill your soul. May you live
yet long—so long as life be desirable unto
you—to do much good. And may you be
privileged to meet with us again—none will
be more welcome. And may your hours of
loneliness be filled by earnest contemplation
of the word of God, and the glorious wel-
come that will await you when united in the
great beyond with your loving and devoted
husband, who perhaps even now, is prepar-
ing for you an heavenly abode at his side.
	In much love we subscribe ourselves
					Your Sisters
			HELEN M. SPERRY,
			MARIA S. LIDDLE,
			MARTHA THOMPSON,
		Presidency Waterloo Relief Society.


[Column 1]
		RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
			WOODRUFF STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society conference held
at Diamondville July 8, 1909, Stake Presi-
dent Sara Tyson presiding. Visitors from
the General Board Sisters Susan Grant and
Minerva E. Knowlton, president Relief So-
ciety of Davis Stake. Stake President Ty-
son was glad to meet the sisters, felt hon-
ored at the reception given, knew that we
would have a good time and drink in the
good spirit, spoke at length on fault-finding,
humility and love.
	President Lizzie Palmer, of Cumberland,
gave a good report. President Christina
Wall, of Lyman, President Nina Wright of
Kemmerer, gave good reports, all felt well.
	Stake President S. Tyson said there would
not be any report from Rock Springs, but
had visited there lately; found that the pres-
dent had moved to Ogden and the society
disorganized, but they had done a good
work in the past. Reported Evanston as
doing a grand work in the Relief Society. It
is a labor of love with them.
	Sister Susan Grant enjoyed this beautiful
morning in meeting with the sisters and
Latter-day Saints, encouraged the young
sisters to attend the Relief Society, also the
boys should learn something about this
grand organization. Spoke at length on

[Column 2]
prayer in the home, and how it should be
attended to in the family, said we learn to
do by doing and the more we do in the
Relief Society, the more we want to, we
should be brave and united and encourage
each other to good works, get the Spirit of
tha Lord and keep it, prayed the Lord to
bless all.
	Sister M. E. Knowlton took pleasure in
her labors in the Church. Thought there
was too much worldly pleasure, there were a
great many more good girls than there were
boys. The Gospel and our families were
the most precious things to us, felt honored
to visit with Sister Grant and talk to the sis-
ters, wished the house was full, she appre-
ciated her position and the work she had to
do, always wanted to be a worker in the
Church and progress with it, spoke on the
word of wisdom, and the necessity of living
it. Encouraged the sisters to be charitable
to each other and love one another.
	Brother Henry Voss of Lyman was glad
to hear the instructions given by the sisters
spoke of the parents class, thought singing
and prayer in the home was a great privil-
ege.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	Afternoon session of Relief Society con-
ference. After the usual exercises, Stake
President S. Tyson said we had had an ex-
cellent time this morning, and the Lord was
with us just as much in these days as He
ever was.
	Stake Counselor Alice Jackson said that
through faith we could draw out from the
speaker what we most wish to hear. She
had many testimonies of the Gospel and
wished to hold fast the good work, urged the
sisters to perform their part and not waste
their opportunities to do good, prayed the
Lord to bless the sisters here.
	Sister Susan Grant spoke upon the bless-
ings of the Gospel, enjoyed her visits to this
stake of Zion and the association of the
noble sisters she met; had the privilege of
knowing the Prophet Joseph Smith, wished
to impress it upon the minds of the young
people here, and we should look for good-
ness and not find fault. Spoke at length on
the principle of faith and its results, wanted
to live a long and useful life in the Church;
read a pamphlet on the Nurses Class given
through the Relief Society, wished to bless
and encourage the sisters in the great work
of relief.
	Sister M. E. Knowlton said she wished
with all her heart that she might be the
mother of missionaries, we had enjoyed a
good time in this conference, said faith was
the gift of God, there were times when we
were sorely tried, and sometimes blessings
are given to us that we do not understand.
Spoke of charity for each other and of the
tendency of women to refuse motherhood, a
mother’s mission is the greatest mission we
can have, the Lord will bless the faithful
mothers. May we increase in faith and
love for one another.
	Brother Hyrum B. Perry spoke upon the
power of faith and love.
	Brother Alvin Jackson, missionary,
thought a great deal had been said that
would make us better men and women; said
woman can make a heaven on earth if she
puts forth her best efiorts. He had been
blessed in this new mission field.
	President S. Tyson made a few closing
remarks and blessed the sisters in their la-
bors of love.
	Singing, “Lord dismiss us with Thy
blessing.” Benediction by Brother Henry
Voss.			KATE EPPICH, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. 

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	-	SEPTEMBER, 1909.


GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERFNCE.
	The Semi-Annual October Conference of
the Relief Society will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this City, Thursday Oct.
7, 1909, meetings commencing promptly at
10 a. m. and at 2 p., as usual. All mem-
bers of the Relief Society are cordially in-
vited, also the Presiding Authorities of the
Church, Bishops and brethren interested in
the work. The General Board of the Y.L.N.
M. I. A., and of the Primary Associations
are included in the invitation.
	There will also be an Officers’ meeting of
the Relief Society held previously on Tues-
day, October 5, at 2 p. m., in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall, and it is desirable that all
presiding officers who can conveniently,
should attend this special session of the
Conference. 
		BATBSHEAA W. SMITH,
			General President.
		IDA S. DUSENBERRY, 
			Counselor.


[Column 1]
GENER[-]L R[-]LIEF SOCIE[-]Y CONFERENCE.

October, 1909, Assembly Hall, Salt Lake City.
	Officers Meeting, Tuesday, Oct. 5, 2 p. m.
Hymn, “Come Oh Thou King of Kings.”
Prayer.
Hymn, “Come Listen to a Prophet’s Voice.”
		Business: Miscellaneous.
Report of General Secretary,
					Emmeline B. Wells.
Report of General Treasurer,
					Clarissa S. Williams.
Solo, “Oh Loving Father,” Delriego,
	Lizzie Thomas Edward, Director of Music
			of General Relief Society.
Instructions: President Bathsheba W. Smith.
Report of Nurse Work,		Phebe Y. Beatie.
Study Lessons in Ward Meeting,
						Minnie H. James.
Solo, “Hosanna,” Granier,	Prof. Elihu Call.
The Mother and the Chid,
			Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry.
Hymn, “Love at Home.”
Prayer.
		Thursday, Oct. 7, 10 a.m.
Opening Hymn. “Lord We Come Before Thee
	Now.”
Opening Prayer,
		Representative R. S. Cassia Stake.

[Column 2]
Singing, “Hail to the Brightness, of Zion’s Glad
	Morning.”
			Presidents Address.
Greeting,
		General Secretary Emmeline B. Wells.
Response,	Representative Mary E. Hardy,
					Taylor Stake, Canada.
Music, Selected, Prof. Willard Weighe, violin,
				Prof. J. J. McClellan, piano.
Poem by Annie Pike Greenwood,
				Read by Annie Welis Cannon
					of the General Board.
Choice of Friends,
				Martha H. Tingey, President
					of the Y. L. M. I. A.
Necessity of Hygienic and Sanitary Conditions
	for the Home and the State,
				Dr. Martha Hughes Cannon.
A Plea for business methods in house keeping,
				Representative of Ogden Stake.
20 minutes Reserved.
Singing, “Doxology.”
Prayer.

		Thursday, Oct. 7, 2 p.m.
Singing, “Lord Thou Wilt Hear Me When I Pray.”
Prayer.
Overture, Edna Coray,
		Organist for the General Relief Society.
Reading of the “Hymn of the Pioneers”
		Kate Thomas, Blanche Thomas McKee.
Report of Quinquennial Congress of the Inter-
	national Council of Women at Toronto, Ca-
	nada,
		Emily S. Richards of the General Board.
Solo, Selected,			Lizzie T. Edward.
	Report of the Triennial of the National Coun-
	cil of Women at Seattle,
		Elizabeth S. Wicox of the General Board.
Report of Rigby, Snowflake and Uintah Stakes,
Solo, “The Lord Is My Light,” Francis Allitsen,
						Irma Pendleton.
Our Place in the World today,
			Annie K. Hardy of Ensign Stake.
Closing Remarks,
		General Treasurer Clarissa S. Williams.
Hymn, “God Be With You Till We Meet Again.”
	“God be with you till we meet again
	By His counsels guide uphold you
	With His sheep securely fold you
	God be with you till we meet again.”
Benediction.


[Column 1]
			REMINISCE CES.
	There are some episodes connected with
Church history in the pilgrimages of our peo-
ple that are rarely mentioned, and yet they
have great significance as historical facts,
and some of them are really miracles, as
much so as those recorded in the ancient
scriptures, and yet many of our people have
never heard of these remarkable instances
manifested in the hour of great need.
	At the time of the exodus from Nauvoo,
after the first company had left, according
to an arrangement with the Federal author-
ities, with the understanding that the aged
people, the widows and those not able to
prepare for so long a journey into the
then unknown and unexplored country,
should not be molested — the mobo-
crats, who had been determined Mormons
should be exterminated or removed far from
civilization compelled all who were left in
the city of Nauvoo to cross the river into the

[Column 2]
territory of Iowa. These people were total-
ly unprepared for such an emergency and
were without the necessary clothing, bed-
ding or food, and were obliged to encamp on
the Western shore of the Mississippi and it
was the rainy season; some few had tents,
some had wagon boxes, and the larger num-
ber had only rough posts driven in the
ground and covered with quilts or pieces of
carpet for shelter; many were sick with
chills and fever, widows with young child-
ren and no protector, except the Lord and His
angels.
	The authorities of the Church, who had
left in the exodus in February had prom-
ised to send back teams to bring them from
Nauvoo, knowing the venom of the mob,
and teams were sent as soon as it could be
accomplished. Meantime the U. S. govern-
ment had asked for five hundred men from
the company who had left Nauvoo in mid-
winter, and this had very seriously weak-
ened the force of able-bodied men; but those
who were waiting for a way of deliverance
were mostly women and children, such men
as were in any way able-bodied, who had
been left to guard and protect the rights
and property of the people, had now to de-
fend the city, after removing the women and
children to a place of safety from harm
and violence, and of this there was the most
positive need, for the enemy was ready to
burn and destroy the city without mercy.
	It was at this critical time that the Lord
made manifest His watch-care to keep them
from want and starvation.
	The quails came flying overhead in flocks,
and were so tame they alighted upon the
ground or the cover of their rude shelters,
whatever they might be, so that the sick
ones could reach out their hands and take
them, and there was food to keep them
from hunger until they could be taken in
conveyances and carried towards the land
of their expectations, safe from their
persecutors.
	Many of them died by the way, ere they
reached the place of safety from their enem-
ies. The story is too pitiful to be told of
those who died by the wayside, stricken so
utterly before aid could reach them.
	It was at this crisis in the affairs of the
Mormon people that Squire Wells of Nau-
voo, an alderman of the city, at that time,
and holding a commission in the militia of
that state, laid down his arms when they
could not be used in defence of helpless
women and children, and espoused the
cause of the people so maligned and ill-
treated, sacrificing his good name among his
former associates, and what was even more
than that, his wife and only son for the
cause of rfght, in which he had implicit be-
lief.
	He knew the Prophet Joseph Smith inti-
mately and sympathized with him from the
time he came from Missouri with his follow-
ers, and settled in Commerce, afterwards
Nauvoo; he esteemed him highly, and had
plead his case on various occasions,
when he had been falsely accused, because he
realized his innocence of the accusations
that were brought against him by wicked
and designing men, just as they did the
prophets of old; but he had not made up
his mind he could make the sacrifice of his
good name and all he held dear, as one
must do who follows the divine teacher in
whatever age or clime. But now the su-
preme hour came, when he must choose be-
tween the Gospel of life and salvation, and
the world with all its allurements, and in


doing so he gave up all that was near and
dear, as the bond—home possessions, wife
and child.
	There are men and women still living who
can testify to the facts related here con-
cerning the coming of the quails in great
numbers, when the Saints who had been
driven from their homes were temporarily
encamped on the Western border of the
Mississippi river, To some of us who have
implicit faith in this Latter-day work, it
seems a positive proof of the overruling
hand of the Lord in the preservation of His
chosen people, the Israel of the present dis-
pensation of the fulness of times.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTE.
	One of the noted visitors to our city this
last summer was the very charming and de-
lightful writer and lecturer Mrs. Charlotte
Perkins Gilman. While here Mrs. Gilman
was the guest of Mrs. Susa Young Gates who
showed her all the interesting points of our
beautiful city and introduced her to many
of our leading and prominent men and
women. Before leaving Mrs. Gilman gave
a lecture in Barratt Hall under the auspices
of the State Council of Women and certainly
impressed her hearers with her logic, wit
and erudition. Mrs. Gilman has recently
published a book entitled “Human Work,”
a book which deals most logically with man
as a worker, and reasons in a powerful way
showing both the present status of humanity
at large and the possibility of great advance-
ment by more earnest effort especially for
women. The book teems with clever expres-
sions, advanced theories, and unanswerable
arguments and would certaiuly broaden one’s
views of life’s labor from a sociological stand-
point at least. It has been translated into
nine languages and is now being translated
into the Japanese.


[Column 1]
CHRONICLE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
				IV.
	The writer of these chronicles realizes
that in giving these few facts in even a
crude form shows how this wonderful organ-
ization of the sisterhood of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has spread
from its small beginning into many parts of
the world, and been a helpful source of self-
education to women.
	Without either schools or teachers really;
simply by contact under the potent influence
of the spirit of the Gospel, vouchsafed to
them in their humility, much has been learn-
ed of life’s usefulness from one another.
There is no possible way of computing the
advantages and wholesome benefit resulting
from the meeting together of the few sisters
in any given locality all partaking of the
Relief Society work.
	Going backward to the first little meetings
in the different wards, where just a few, per-
haps six or seven or a dozen as the case
might be, and tracing the history of the one
or more, what has seemed almost insignificant
has grown to gigantic proportions. 
	Recently in looking over hundreds of
pages of manuscript prepared for the jubilee
of this society in 1892, the first fifty years
after its inception, we came across many
very interesting things, and it is difficult to
choose which would be the best for an illus-
tration, but we have taken a few notes from
one society.
	Rockville is a small town in Southern
Utah where the colonists who settled there

[Column 2]
had many hardships to endure and obstacles
to surmount. Like the other women of Zion
as soon as possible they came together and
were organized for mutual helpfulness and
benefit.
	This society was organized in 1868, with
110 members; the first donations were cash,
$30.00; cotton, $4.00; butter, $2.00; molasses,
$4.00.
	The minutes of the first meeting are simi-
lar to others and yet unique as given.
	The first meeting was on May 28, 1868,
and was opened by singing a hymn and
prayer; the president spoke of the motives
and duties of the sisters in the society and
made some pertinent remarks suitable to
the occasion. Sister Hannah Terry rehears-
ed some of the teachings given in Nauvoo,
Illinois, and advised all to be forward in good
works for great things would yet grew out of
the small society. Sister Jane Black and
others spoke words of encouragement. We
give the names of members with list of dona-
tions. Clarissa Terry, president, $4.00; Eliza
Smith, first counselor, $3.95; Emeline Wind-
sor, second counselor, $4.00; Mary Stocks,
secretary, $4.00; Huldah L. Bunday, $1.00;
Jane Black, $4.25; Hannah Terry, Mary Par-
ker, Mary Buchanan, each 50 cts.; Bertha
Olsen, $2.00; Lucy Demuth $1.75; Ann Jen-
nings Kizia Hall $1.50; Susan Scroggins,
$2.25; Marilla Hansen Allred, $5.00; Sarah
Farnes Eleanor Morris, $4.00; Ellen Terry,
$1.00; Sophia Foster, $2.25, Mary Black,
$2.25; Martha Stephens, $3.75; Maria Smith,
$2.85. At this meeting a visiting committee
of five was appointed.
	Meetings were held regularly and in August
a special meeting was called to discuss how
to raise means to send to St. Joseph in Ari-
zona to relieve the needs of families whose
property had been destroyed by fire. After
the collections were made the sisters met to
pack the goods and articles to be forwarded
to the distressed families. Soon after a
working meeting was held at which there
was quilting, braiding-straw, knitting and
sewing. Two quilts were finished that day.
While the work was being done Sister Jane
Black entertained the ladies with incidents
and experiences of her own life while in the
Nauvoo persecutions.
	At a subsequent meeting the sisters made
coats and vests besides quilting. The sis-
ters also did spinning and reeling, and
braiding of mats was also done, and sewing
carpet rags was a favorite pastime, as it did
not hinder conversation.
	The first annual meeting held in Rockville
the sisters considered the matter of establish-
ing a cooperative store, as they had been
advised by President Brigham Young. It
was soon accomplished, they purchased
from the 14th Ward Woman’s Cooperative
Store in Salt Lake City useful articles to
create labor, no sugar or candy, these goods
cost $49.84 and for cloth made and sold,
they realized in value $49.91.—Imagine the
industry and enterprise of these good faith-
ful sisters at that early time, when they were
400 miles from Salt Lake City, and this city
itself was only like a country town.
	In March 1871, less than three years the
report of the Society was in Property $187.45
cash, and goods $108.84. Donations and
and expenses $71.80. Articles on hand:
wheat 5 1/2 bushels, cotton 32 lbs., cotton
yarn one bunch, stocking yarn 2 lbs., woolen
yarn 30 lbs., 3 pairs stockings, 2 sets knit-
ting needles.		Kezia Hall, Sec’y.
	In those days molasses was made at home
and valued at $2.00, a gallon; corn $2.00 a
bushel and other products in proportion.

[Column 3]
	It seems almost incredible the Relief So-
ciety could make means and establish a co-
operative store under such conditions, and
take care of the sick and those who needed
nursing and help, waiting upon and assist-
ing each other in families and neighbor-
hoods. Everything had to be made by hand
and then the carding, spinning, weaving of
flax, cotton, and wool making from the raw
material, how different from the housework
today with every sort of facility and mach-
inery What wonderful changes have come
and are we really better off? The names of
such women deserve record; here are some
of the foremost ones. Henrietta Stout Keziah
Hall, Mary R. Terry, Sarah Farnes, Ellen
K. Daley, Marilla Hanson, Clarinda Lang-
ston, Mary Ann Hirschi, Clarinda J. Stout,
Fannie M. Terry, Alice A. Dalton, Alvaretta
Petty, Lydia Lemmon, Letitia Dalton and
Ellen R. Daley, Amy H. Draper, Maria
Smith, Maryette Brandage, Fannie P.
Slaughter, Hannah Jennings. Remember
these women kept a store, and kept books
of account, and it is almost incredible when
one considers how they lived, that their
penmanship and spelling was so perfect.
The manuscript from which these notes are
made is a fine specimen of writing, better
than most of the college girls of nowadays,
write or spell. These reports made at the
time of the Relief Society Jubilee are worth
keeping in the archives of the Relief Society.
Many of these women so faithful and diligent
have passed away but we honor their mem-
ory.


INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN.
(SHORT ACCOUNT OF THE QUINQUENNIAL
		SESSIONS IN CANADA.)
	Owing to the unusual circumstance of
two plenary meetings of council being held
within ten months—in September, 1908, in
Geneva, and in June, 1909, in Toronto—the
year 1908-09 may fairly be considered a re-
cord year of business in the history of the
International Council of Women. On no
previous occasion has more than one plen-
ary session of council been held during a
quinquennial period, but the special meet-
ing at Geneva was called in order to com-
plete the revision of the Constitution and
Standing Orders and to come to some work-
ing arrangement for suitable numerical re-
presentation of the Australian National
Councils previous to the quinquennial meet-
ing of council in 1909. Both matters were
successfully arranged at Geneva, and two
new National Councils, of Greece and Bul-
garia, became affiliated. The annual report
of the work of the standing committees of
the Intenational Council and of all the affili-
ated National Councils was then published
in October, 1908.
	In November, 1908, the first communica-
tions were issued from the headquarters of-
fice to the National Councils regarding the
nominations of general officers and con-
veners of committees for the next quinquen-
nial period, 1909-1914, and requesting inti-
mation of any resolutions or recommenda-
tions for the Agenda of the quinquennial
sessions at Toronto. The replies were duly
considered at a meeting of officers held on
27th January in London, and the Prelimin-
ary Agenda was circulated in printed form
to all the affiliated councils in the month of
February. Farther correspondence ensued,
and the Final Agenda was published in
June. It contained, in addition to the
Agenda and Revised Constitution, etc., a


[Column 1]
complete itinerary for the visit of the council
to Canada from Friday, 11th June, to
Wednesday, 30th June. Another publica-
tion prepared in readiness for the quinquen
nial reunion was a special report on “public
health” containing short accounts sent from
all the National Councils on recent progress
in the care of public health in their respec-
tive countries. The official delegates were
all supplied by the International Council
with name badges suspended on specially-
woven ribbon in purple, white and gold—
the colors of the council—and those who
wished might purchase the I. C. W. mono-
gram brooch adopted at Geneva and worked
in purple white and enamel, or in silver or
silver gilt.
	About 140 ladies attended the council
meetings as official delegates and proxies;
over 80 came from over-seas as ordinary
members or invited speakers for the con-
gress, and a number from the United States.
The average attendance at the business
meetings of the council was from 250 to
300.
	The first assembling of the delegatee upon
their arrival in Canada was at Quebec, when
on Friday, 11th June, Sir George Garnier,
the mayor, and the city authorities enter-
tained Her Excellency the Countess of Aber-
deen and the delegates to luncheon in the
Chateau Frontenac hotel. The delegates
were also driven to the old citadel, to the
famous battleground where Wolfe lost his
life, to the falls of Montmorency, and other
interesting places.
	At Montreal the next morning an execu-
tive Meeting was held, and until Monday
evening the delegates remained there as
guests of the local council of Montreal.
Victoria College, the Women’s Department
of the McGill University, was prettily ar-
ranged as headquarters, and the university
gave a large reception there on Saturday
evening. On Monday, a special train took
the delegates to St. Anne de Bellevue to
visit the Macdonald College for the training
of teachers in Agriculture and Domestic
Science, and they returned by steamer
through the famous Lachine Rapids of the
St. Lawrence. The Handicrafts Guild gave
a reception in the Art Gallery on Monday
evening. Tuesday was spent in Ottawa,
where the Hon. Mr. Fisher, Minister of Agri-
culture, conducted the delegates through
the Experimental Farm some miles out of
the town, and in the afternoon the Parlia-
ment buildings were visited, and all the de-
legates then went to the brilliant garden
party given in their honor by her Excellency
Countess Grey, wife of the Governor General
of Canada. Sir Wilfred Laurier, the Pre-
mier, and many of the most notable men
and women in Canada were present.
	Committee meetings commenced at Tor-
onto on the following day, Wednesday the
16th June, and a second executive meeting
occupied Thursday. On Wednesday even-
ing a public welcome was extended to the
president and council at a large meeting in
Convocation Hall. Lady Edgar, president
of the Canadian National Council of Women,
his honor the Lieut. Governor of the Prov-
ince of Ontario, his Worship the Mayor of
Toronto, and Professor Ramsey Wright, the
vice-president of the University gave cordial
greetings to the guests. The Countess of
Aberdeen responded on behalf of the coun-
cil, and gave her presidential address. On
Thursday evening, the Mayor and Mrs. Oliver
gave a reception in the City Hall.
	The business meetings of the council were
held on Friday, Saturday, Monday, Tues-

[Column 2]
day, the 18th to 22nd June, in the Univers-
ity buildings. Lunch was served each day 
in the buildings in a large hall, and the
waiting was done by girl students and their
friends. The girl students, wearing their
gowns, acted as ushers at the meetings and
in the corridors and entrance hall, and the
local hostesses and committee members
were unwearied in their care for the comfort
and convenience of the visitors.
	The reports of the officers and conveners,
and the presidents of affiliated National
Councils, were submitted and accepted for
publication in the Transactions. Letters
were read from the Hon. vice-presidents in
Russia and Finland, where there is every
prospect of National Councils being formed.
The secretary of the council in New Zealand
reported that their council was practically
non-existent at present, but desired
that their president, Mrs. Sheppard, be ap-
pointed an Hon. vice-president to try and re-
organize it. Communications of great hope
and interest were read from Mrs. Marcellus
Bowen in Constantinople and from Mrs.
Ellen Hopkins in Cairo, and it was resolved
to appoint two additional Hon. vice-presi-
dents for Turkey and Egypt.
	The names of three ladies were submitted
and accepted as Life-Patrons of the council,
Fru Maria Ekman Stockholm; Mrs. Henry
Bovey, Montreal; Frl. Helene Lange, Berlin.
As Quinquennial Patrons for 1909-1914 the
following ladies were proposed and accept-
ed: Frk. Mueller, Denmark; Countess Ruuth,
Sweden; Frl. Krajner, Hungary; Mrs. Emme-
line B. Wells and Mrs. Susa Young Gates,
U. S. A.; Mrs. Smythe, Australia; Mrs. Henry
Muff, Mrs. Forbes of Rothiemay, Mrs. Symes
Thomson, Mrs. Veitch, Miss Blackie from
Great Britain and Ireland.
	A letter from Lady MacLaren was read,
asking whether the International Council
would co-operate with the International
Women’s Suffrage Alliance in helping to
prepare a Women’s Charter, setting forth
the rights and wishes of women, and in pre
senting the Charter in 1910 simultaneously
to all civilized governments. On the proposal
of Mrs. Ogilvie Gordon, supported by the
Rev. Anna Shaw, Frau Hainish and others,
the following recommendation was unanim-
ously carried—“that any action to be taken
by the International Council in approaching
governments should in accordance with pre-
cedent be taken idependently of other asso-
ciations; and that as an excellent series of
reports on “Laws” had been published year
after year by the “Laws” committee of the
International Council of Women under the
Convenership of Baroness Olga von Besch-
witz, it be referred to that committee to
compile from these a special report not con-
fined to one year’s progress, but showing any
inequalities and deficiencies in existing laws
relating to women in the different countries
represented within the International Coun-
cil. That this report be then sent to the
governments in these countries, accompanied
by a letter from the executive of the Inter-
national Council, which should draw atten-
tion to the disadvantageous position of
women as shown in the report, and should
state that the International Council based
their support of Woman’s Suffrage on these
facts, and in order to secure the improve-
ment of such laws desired to possess the
only recognized constitutional means of im-
pressing their convictions and wishes upon
the representatives of the people in parlia-
ment.”
	An important discussion took place on a
proposal made by the National Council of

[Column 3]
the United States to alter the name of the
committee on “White Slave Traffic and
Equal Moral Standard” in such a way that
it should include the case of women of all
races, and not appear to be limited to the
white races. It was agreed to alter the name
to “Equal Moral Standard and Traffic in
Women.”
	In connection with the work of the coun-
cil in support of the principles of “Peace
and Arbitration” a resolution was passed
urging the National Councils to “promote
the use of such textbooks and reading-books
in schools as will present historical facts
with the least possible bias and to endeavour
to arouse a living interest in the modern
methods of peaceably settling international
difficulties.” The council also acted in fa-
vour of the observance of an annual “Peace
Day” by schools, universities, and churches,
or by special associations and Festivals. A
largely attended and enthusiastic public
meeting in support of peace was organized
by the council in the Massey Hall, over
which Sir Wm. Mulock presided. Addresses
were given by Mrs. May Wright Sewall, Frau
Hainisch, Mlle la Fontaine and Miss Rosa
Barrett. Other successful public meetings
were those held in the interests of “Public
Health” and “Women’s Suffrage.”
	A useful recommendation was passed by
the council for the protection of birds, and
to secure a stricter observance of close times
for birds and other animals. Another re-
commendation was to the effect that appli-
cation be made to the bureau of the uni-
versal postal union asking for a reduction of
postal rates and the introduction of some
simple form for “prepaid answer.” A dis-
cussion was held on the desirability of mak-
ing sure that those using the information
bureaux of the various National Councils
were bona fide members of councils and did
not take undue advantage of the bureaux
for private or individual purposes. It was
agreed that any National Council may sanc-
tion his own affiliated societies to make in-
quiries at the bureaux of other National
Councils and shall notify to the secretary of
the International Council at the beginning
of each quinquennial period the names and
addresses of the affiliated societies to whom
the privilege is given; but that members of
National Councils should not have this privi-
lege as individuals.
	Four National Councils had sent invita-
tions to the international body to hold the
quinquennial reunion of 1914 in their re-
spective countries—Australia, Norway,
France, and Italy. By vote of the council,
it was decided that it should be held in
Rome, in April or May of 1914. For the
two executive sessions during the quinquen-
nial period, the places chosen were Stock-
holm in 1911, and the Netherlands in 1913.
	The officers elected for the next quinquen-
nial period were her Excellency the Countess
of Aberdeen, president; Mrs. Ogilvie Gordon,
Countess Spalletti Rasponi and Frau Hainisch
as 1st, 2nd and 3rd vice-president; Dr. Alice
Salomon as Hon. Cor. Secretary; Dr. Alex-
andra Skoglund as Hon. Rec. Secretary, and
Mrs. W. E. Sanford as Hon. treasurer. Mrs.
May Wright Sewall was re-elected an Hon.
president. It w[-]s unanimously agreed to
employ a paid assistant secretary to work
under the Hon. Cor. secretary, and Miss
Dorothy Brackett, who had worked six
months with Mrs. Ogilvie Gordon, was ap-
pointed to the post.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall was re-elected
convener of the “Peace and Arbitration”
committee, Mme. Avril de Ste-Croix of the


committee on “Equal Moral Standard and
Traffic in Women,” Dr. Anna Shaw of the
committee of “Women’s Suffrage,” and
Mme. d’Abbadie d’Arrast of the committee
on “Laws.”
	The only change in the Convenership of
committees was the election of Mrs. Wil-
loughby Cummings to the “Finance” Com-
mittee on the resignation of Frl. Helene
Lange; and the election of Miss Johanna
Naber to the “Press” committee. Three new
standing committees were appointed—
“Public Health” with the president as con-
vener; “Education” with the first vice-presi-
dent as convener; and “Emigration and Im-
migration” with Signora Danieli as con-
vener.
	The meetings of the International Con-
gress of Women commenced on Thursday,
24th June, and drew large audiences
throughout the entire series. Both the con-
gress and the subsequent tour through Wes-
tern Canada, with return through the United
States, afforded favorable opportunities for
full and frank interchange of views between
delegates of the International Council of
Women, and no one who was present can
doubt the immeasurable benefit of such op-
portunities, and their value in bringing en-
lightenment and inspiration to the council
workers in the various countries.
	MARIA M. OGILVIE GORDON,
			1st Vice-Pres.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
			CASSIA STAKE.
	The annual Relief Society conference of
Cassia Stake of Zion was held June 11,
1909, in the Oakley 4th ward chapel, Oakley,
Idaho, President Alice Sessions presiding.
After the usual opening exercises a roll of
Stake officers and representatives was called.
Eleven wards out of a total number of four-
teen were represented.
	Sisters Alice M. Horne and Minnie H.
James of the General Board were in attend-
ance. Two sessions of the conference were
held at which each Relief Society represent-
ed was reported in good condition.
	President William T. Jack of the Stake
Presidency discoursed upon the purpose of
Relief Society organization, the storing of
grain, the necessity of sending sisters to take
a course in nursing, better support to the
Woman’s Exponent, the duties of wife and
mother, and the responsibility of parents to
children. Much interest wa[-] [---]ifested by
all present in the subjects p[---] The
proceedings were intersperse[---] solos
from Sisters Maggie Whittle [---] B.
Dayley, and a reading by Sister[---]
Thomas.
		FORTHILDA FUNK.
					Stake Sec.

			LIBERTY STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of Liberty
Stake Relief Society was held in the 9th
ward meetinghouse June 24, 1909, at 10 a.
m. and 2 p. m.. President Annie S. Musser
presiding.
	Sister Rebecca Nibley and Alice M. Horne
of the General Board, also Elders Milando
Pratt and Charles W. Symons, of the High
Council of Liberty Stake were present. All
of the Stake Board were present, and repre-
sentatives from each ward.
	Miss Lillian Branting was the soloist.
	At the morning session the statistical and

[Column 2]
financial report for the year ending Dec.
1908 were read and accepted. Reports were
made by the presidents of the various wards
and the society in each ward was reported as
progressing favorably. Sisters Rebecca Nib-
ley and Alice M. Home made some timely
remarks and gave some good instructions,
encouraged us in our work, and thought we
had always been a great help to the priest-
hood. 
	At the afternoon session the members of
the General Board of the Relief Society, also
of the Stake Board were unanimously sus-
tained. Sisters M. Pratt and Martha Morris
reported for the Relief Society special mis-
sionary work as progressing and a good
work being performed.
	Sister Jennie Lloyd delivered a lecture on
the life of Miss Francis E. Willard, also
spoke for a short time on the purity of our
society, of our homes and children.
	Sister Horne again addressed us, speaking
words of encouragement to help us in our
every day life. Elder Symons also spoke
for a short time.
	President Musser made a few closing re-
marks, thanking all who had helped to make
our conference a success. After closing
exercises conference adjourned for six
months.
		LIZZIE ROBBINS, Sec.

		YELLOWSTONE STAKE.
	The Yellowstone stake Relief Society
conference convened at St. Anthony, August
8, 1909, President Julia E. Miller presiding.
	There were present the Stake presidency,
several high counselors, Sisters Sarah J.
Cannon and Hattie B. Harker, of the Gener-
al Board, and Sisters Barnes and Baliff of
the Fremont Relief Society.
	The morning session commenced by sing-
ing. Prayer was offered by President Dan-
iel G. Miller. Four wards were reported as
being in good condition. President Julia
E. Miller reported the societies throughout
the stake as being in a thriving condi-
tion.
	A duet was sung by Sisters Amelia Barnes
and Katherine Flint.
	Sister Harker, of the General Board, spoke
to the sisters on the need of studying the
Gospel.
	Sister Sarah Barnes of Fremont Stake
spoke for a short time on forming char-
acter,
	After singing, benediction was pronounced
by Brother M. I. Kerr.
	Afternoon session commenced by singing.
Prayer was offered by President M. I.
Kerr.
	President Julia E. Miller welcomed the
sisters to the conference and reported the
officers as being strict observers of the word
of wisdom.
	A solo was sung by Sister Vilate Rigby.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon, of the General
Board, spoke encouragingly to the teachers
and told what a noble work was theirs.
	Sister Harker spoke for a short time on
the different duties of Relief Society work-
ers.
	Solo by Sister Emily Baliff.
	Remarks were made by President David
G. Miller, Marion J. Kerr, and Joseph E.
Fogg,
	First Counselor Mary J. Miller gave a
short talk on the storing of grain.
	After singing, benediction was pronounced
by Bishop Arnold D. Miller, Sr.
				MARY E. BROWER,
						Stake Secretary.

[Column 3]
			NEBO STAKE.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference of
Nebo Stake Relief Society held at Spanish
Fork, Utah, July 25, 1909.
	Conference convened at 10 o’clock a. m.
President Eliza J. Dixon presiding. After
opening exercises, Sister Tuttle spoke a few
words of welcome. Sister Naples, first
counselor, spoke for a short time, was glad
to see so many present, nearly all the wards
represented.
	President Dixon reported Nebo Stake Re-
lief Society, 1,039 members enrolled, aver-
age attendance, 25 per cent, 8 Relief So-
ciety halls, 9 granaries, all wards doing a
good work, and much credit was due for
the labor of the sisters in preparing the
dead for burial.
	Sister Pickering reported Payson 1st
ward in good condition. Sister Higgins of
Knightsville reported her ward all united
and doing a good work. Sister Pierce re-
ported Salem ward in good condition, their
sick well taken care of, and teachers doing
a good work.
	Song by Sister Dollie Rigdon, “The Song
my Mother used to Sing,”
	Sister Grant, member of the General
Board, spoke, thought the first duty of
mothers was to take care of their children,
for they are the only things we can take
with us when we leave this life, was well
pleased with the report of the work being
done in this stake, advised us to keep our
books well, that we may have credit for
what we are doing, gave words of encour-
agement to the sisters in their labors,
	Sister H. B. Harker, one of the members
of the General Board, was pleased to see so
many young mothers present, thought it
would be an injustice to leave the Relief So-
ciety work all to the older sisters. The
place for the young mothers is in the Relief
Society, for they can get useful instructions
in rearing their children, advised sending
out special missionaries to increase our at-
tendance, said we are blessed only as we
bless others.
	Song by a sister from the 4th ward of
Spanish Fork, “Always take Mother’s
Advice.”
	After singing and prayer, conference ad-
journed until 2 p.m.
	At 2 p. m. conference reconvened, Presi-
dent Eliza J. Dixon presiding. After open-
ing exercises, a lesson was given by Sister
Jane Bradford on the subject of prayer, Sis-
ter Markham on the effect of prayer; Sister
Hughes, when and how to pray; Sister
Roach, value and habit of prayer.
	Song, Sister Sadie Louis, “My Faith in
Thee.”
	Sister Grant said the things we had list-
ened to were beautiful. Gave some of her
early day experiences, had known all of the
prophets of the Church, was 12 years old
when Joseph Smith was martyred, was ac-
quainted with the prophet and knew him
well, he was a more noble looking man
than any of his pictures portray. Said we
do not always appreciate the Gospel as we
should; she was a pioneer of ’47. Spoke
some time on faith, related circumstances
on that subject; thought we should teach our
children the word of wisdom by example
and to honor those who are placed over
them, honor those in authority. Sister
Grant was 77 years old July 25, 1909.
	Recitation by Sister Hannah Hansen,
“Listen to Mother.”
	Sister Harker said we are all brothers and
sisters, and family ties are very strong; we


[Column 1]
should work as not only Relief Society work
but God’s work, we can accomplish a great
work through the help of the Lord.
	Bishop McKell was well pleased with the
remarks that had been made; asked the
blessing of the Lord on the stake officers.
	Sister Dixon made a few closing remarks
and thanked the people of Spanish Fork for
their kindness.
	Conference adjourned for three months by
singing, and benediction by Sister Baxter.
		ELIZA A. HAWKINS, Cor. Sec.

		BINGHAM STAKE.
	Our conference of Bingham stake con-
vened in Idaho Falls, July 14, 1909, in the
L. D. S. Church at 10 a. m. President El-
vira C. Steele presiding.
	Opened with singing and prayer by Patri-
arch R. L Bybee; minutes and roll call by
Stake Secretary Jensine Johansen, and there
was a very good representation of all the
wards.
	The Stake Board of thirteen were all pres-
ent but one and she was excused.
	President Steele reported the Relief Socie-
ty work progressing nicely, felt more than
pleased to have Sisters Sarah Jenne Cannon
and Minnie H. James of the General Board
with us.
	After hearing reports from some of the
wards, which were very good, Sister Cannon
was introduced; was delighted with the
beautiful place to meet in and gave us just
the good Relief Society talk we were need-
ing; advised mothers to take good care of
their children, and bring them to meetings;
said many other beautiful things, etc.
	Sister Minnie James was introduced; felt
she was not gifted as her noble mother was
in speaking, but gave us same very good
talk in her pleasing way, urged all to be
more diligent in this great and good work,
that our beloved Prophet Joseph had organ-
ized for us; let us appreciate this fact and
go on our way with love in our hearts for all
mankind.
	Patriarch Robert L. Bybee felt we were
highly favored of the Lord, we should listen
to and put in practice the good things we
hear and may the Lord bless us all to do
His will.
	After singing and benediction by Bishop
C. W. Rockwood conference adjourned until
2 p. m.
	The sisters of Idaho Falls entertained all
present, “in the basement,” to a delicious
banquet where all enjoved themselves soci-
ally and had a lovely time and especially in
the company of our visitors, Sisters Cannon
and James.
	Met again at 2 p. m. After the usual
exercises we again listened to some very
good reports; the house was almost filled
with smiling faces. President Heber C.
Austin and Bishop Wright were also present.
	Sister Cannon again addressed us in her
motherly way, which reached all; bore her
testimony to the truth of the Gospel, also of
having seen the Prophet Joseph Smith when
a child, etc., etc.
	Sister James again spoke to us, related
some of her early remembrances in the lives
of some of our leaders and particularly the
relating of the first vision of the Prophet
Joseph by himself to her mother, and many
other beautiful things.
	Counselors Sisters Rockwood and Brunt
each expressed themselves as being well
pleased with our conference, trusted we
would profit by the good things we had
heard.
	President Austin felt pleased with the

[Column 2]
spirit of the meetings, felt to especially im-
press upon all the plan of living within our
income and providing ourselves with wheat,
or flour for at least one year ahead, and desired
to have wives use their influence with their
husbands to this end and said may the Lord
bless you in all your labors, etc.
	A solo was rendered by Jos. Morley.
	Bishop Rockwood of Iona felt that he was
a Relief Society Bishop, as he generally at-
tended these conferences and was very
pleased to do so, appreciated the work of
the Society, urged a little more strict atten-
tion to the needs of the poor; and looking
after the wheat and the proper care of it,
and advised many other good things.
	Miss Beatrice Pike sang a most beautiful
solo.
	President E. C. Steele felt to thank all
who had assisted in making our conference
so enjoyable, especially the ladies of Idaho
Falls for their banquet, under the able man-
agement of President Shippen.
	Singing the song called “Idaho,” chorister
Mary A. Holden; prayer by Bishop Wright
of Lincoln.
		ELVIRA C. STEELE, President.

			SEVIER STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society conference held
in Salina Aug 21, 1909. Meeting convened
in Relief Society Hall, President Christine
Sorensen presiding. Singing by choir and
congregation, “O, blest was the day.” Prayer
by Brother T. Humphrey. Singing; “Once
more my soul the rising sun.”
	President E. M. Humphrey of Salina wel-
comed all present and was pleased to see the
brethren present. Said let us be contented
with our surroundings.
	Stake President C. W. Sorensen spoke
of duties in Relief Society work; there are
many different branches for us to talk
about, mentioned the Nurse School.
	The secretary read from the Exponent
about the Nurse School, also bore faithful
testimony of blessings received while prac-
tising obstetrics in 25 years past. Encour-
aged the young sisters to attend these
classes.
	Bishop Sorensen was pleased to have the
sisters hold their conferenec here, made all
welcome, hoped we enjoyed our opportuni-
ties, said the Bishopric are pleased with the
labors of the Salina Relief Society; they are
doing their duty well.
	The song, “I Have Read of a Beautiful
City” was beautifully rendered by Sister
Mary Christensen.
	Sister Caroline Nielson read a poem,
“Discontent in Church.”
	Second Counselor Caroline Bohman said
there is a great lesson to be learned in the
poem. Bore her testimony of the Gospel,
spoke of the duties of mothers in teaching
their children the ways of the Lord. There
is so much wickedness in the world. En-
couraged the sisters to gather in grain and
take care of it faithfully.
	President Martin Jenson, of Richfield,
said, “I feel timid, as it is quite recently we
brethren have joined the Relief Society.
We are appointed by our stake authorities
to give reports of the different auxiliary or-

[Column 3]
ganizations. Hope we may not be too busy
to work out our salvation. This is a school
to prepare us for glory in the celestial king-
dom in store for the faithful.”
	Singing and Benediction.
	Conference continued at 2 p. m., Presi-
dent C. W. Sorensen presiding. Singing,
“Great God attend while Zion sings.”
	Prayer by Brother Hans Godfriedsen.
	Singing, “Sweet hour of prayer.”
	Secretary M. Swindle read from Exponent
of June, 1909, “Report to National Council
of Women.”
	President C. W. Sorenson made some re-
marks on labors of N. W. R. S. Urged the
sisters to subscribe for the Exponent. We
should help this paper along, it is our paper;
spoke of the great work done by Sister E. B.
Wells, also spoke on gathering grain, en-
dorsed what Sister Bohman had said; let us
keep up this mission.
	Brother Franze, choir leader of Salina,
sang “Daughters of Zion,” by Mrs. Annie
Wells Cannon; very nicely rendered.
	Sister Mary Ann Nickerson, nearly 87
years old, gave some of her experiences. She
has belonged to the Church since she was 16
years old, knew the Prophet Joseph Smith,
shared joy and sorrow with him while he
lived. She has passed through many trying
scenes; she hopes to go and meet the Bride-
groom and never be found wanting.
	Brother L. P. Jensen, of Richfield can say
like Brother M. Jensen, he is a new member
in the Relief Society. It is a pleasure to
listen to instructions given by the sisters.
Spoke of raising our children, made some
encouraging remarks, also spoke of the
grasshopper war, endorsed what was said
about the gathering of wheat.
	Brother James Jensen, of Salina, was
pleased to be here this afternoon and hear
instructions given. It is a little over 67
years since the Relief Society was organized
and we can judge [--] it has done any good
since. Spoke of laws laid down by our
Creator, we should be governed by them,
also of the trials endured by the pioneers to
build up this great commonwealth.
	Brother Martin Jensen asked the privilege
of speaking in favor of the Exponent. Asked
how many subscribers are in the congrega-
tion? Nine hands were held up as sub-
scribers present. He said “Let us double
it,” and he headed the list with one dollar,
after which nine more subscriptions fol-
lowed. Encouraged sisters to continue to
increase subscriptions while visiting through
the stake.
	President C. W. Sorensen was truly glad
to see our conference terminate so favor-
ably and to see good brethren helping with
the Exponent; hoped we might get more sub-
scribers. She thanked the choir for sweet
music.
	After benediction conference adjourned
for three months or until further notice.
	Singing, Woman’s Battle Song, “On-
ward Christian Woman.”
	Benediction by Brother Joseph Ogden of
Richfield.
	The words for this song were composed by
the Salina Relief Society sisters.
				M. SWINDLE, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67-69-71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 38.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER, 1909.					No.4.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
Passing Thoughts...............................A. W. C	25
Autobiography......................Nancy M. Tracy	26
Program: Daughters of the Revolution...........	27
Relief Society Stake Reports: Uintah.............	27
       Alpine......................................................	32
Tante Rora. A Sketch......................................	30
In Memoriam..................................................	30
Editorial:—Wilford Woodruff........................	28
	President William H. Taft.......................	28
	General Relief Society Conference........	28
	“John Stevens’ Courtship” .....................	29
	“Thrilling Incidents”...............................	29
	Editorial Notes........................................	29
	Henry Browne Blackwell.......................	32
Poetry:—The Best of All..Ellis R.Shipp, M. D.	25
	She Hath Gone..........Grace Ingles Frost	25
	Progress...................Emmeline B. Wells	27


THE BEST OF ALL.
Oh mothers remember when children are young,
While you list to the prattle of innocent tongue,
As you patiently answer the unending call,
That now is the happiest season of all.

Oh list to the voices so tender and sweet, 
Oh heed the soft patter of tottering feet,
Soothe gently the bruises that come from a fall,
And remember these days are the noblest of all.

When you hush them to sleep with your lullaby
	song,
Those moments of joy sweet mother prolong,
For time with its changes may come as a pall,
When they’ve slipped from your arms beyond
	your recall.

Then hold them secure in clinging embrace,
In the folds of your love to ever have place
Through sorrow, e’en sin, whatever befall
Encompassed by mother-love, constant through
	all.

For ah there will come, as moments flit on,
A time when the bliss of these days will be gone.
Fond memory only, all you can recall.
Of these hours that will e’er be the dearest of all.

Then breathe a soft prayer as you lull them to
	sleep,
That Angels their watch-care forever may keep,
He hears e’en the ravens—He heeds every call,
His love the sublimest divinest of all!
						ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.


SHE HATH GONE.
	(Lines dedicated to Sister Lydia Clayton
Thatcher, deceased, by Grace Ingles Frost.)
	She hath gone, and though we miss her.
		Still we know she liveth on,
	In that land beyond the shadows,
		Where we all shall meet ere long.

	She hath gone, hath left all sorrow,
		Laid her heavy burdens down;
	Gone to meet her loved ones waiting.
		She hath triumphed won her crown.

	“Dead!” we sang, but, oh, ’tis error,
		She hath just begun to live,
	Called unto a higher mission,
		There her loving help to give.
	Shall we grieve o’er her, our sister?
		Death for such can have no sting.
	“She is with the ransomed numbered,”
		Hark! the Hosts of Heaven sing.

	She hath gone, our well beloved,
		Gone to forge within the chain, 
	One more link more strong to bind us
		To that life which knows not pain.


Let her then enjoy her blessings,
	Ah! drive not her light by tears,
She hath passed from woe to gladness,
	Laid aside all earthly fears,

“Victory! victory!” she singeth;
	Over death and o’er the grave,
Like a faithful beacon shining,
	Lives she on, the strong and brave.


[Column 1]
		PASSING THOUGHTS.

	October! rich, rare, ripe October!
	Month of red and golden hues, 
	Of purple skies and sparkling dews,
	Of ripened fruit and garnered sheaves,
	Of golden corn and rustling leaves,
	Spring’s hope and summer’s labor stilled,
	The promise of all dreams fulfilled,

	Women’s Clubs,—Victor Hugo said that
the 19th century was the woman’s cen-
tury; and some one else, equally great,
though now I forget who, has said that the
20th century was the child’s century, while
the truth of this matter is that in the 19th
century the world woke up to the fact that
progress is due to intellectual and not phy-
sical forces, and when women decide to
take off their kitchen aprons, and no longer
be counted as a simple fireside ornament,
or household drudge, but sometimes to think
and work with man beyond the narrow lim-
its of “four walls,” then the rapid time
of true development began.
	Women, with their subtler, finer intui-
tions, receiving educational advantages have
become a power in the world, and instinct-
vely their interests turn towards the better
training and care of the child. Women of
leisure no longer sit making mittens and
pin cushions for foreign missions, but are
delving into the problems of their home
towns, sanitary, moral, educational, and all
conditions with an aim to wipe out the im-
pure and unclean, both in thought and
deed, and keep the standard of progress
on the rise, to bring about a transformation
not only for the benefit of the present gener-
ation, but for those yet to come. The true
worth of club women is not to gain political,
financial or socialdistinction, though all are
good in their place, but to educate women
to the necessities of their surroundings, and
unitedly to better and uplift them. Higher
and better ideals not only for the woman
and the child, but for all mankind is the re-
sult of women’s clubs. The Latter-day
Saint women have their own organizations,
which have been of great benefit to them,
and there is nothing that is good and true
and elevating which cannot be introduced
into them. Indeed, if we wish to advance
and keep up the pace of progress with the
women of advanced thought, we must study
and learn and take advantage of all oppor-
tunities. By liberal discussions in our
meetings of those things that pertain to our
own education and advancement, as well as
that of our children, mingled with the testi-
mony and faith of our religious sentiment,
we may become foremost among all
women.
	Fine Feathers.—That fine feather make
fine birds is an old maxim taken for granted
these ages past; but is it true? Do the

[Column 2]
clothes one wears prove one either the true
lady or true gentleman? Are clothes either
a guide or a help to the insight of character?
I do not think so.
	Not long since, while waiting for a parcel
in a large department store, a little lady,
very plainly, almost shabbily dressed was
almost rudely brushed aside by the gentle-
manly? floor walker as he rushed forward
to meet two young women who had just
entered the store. The girls were quite
beautifully dressed. As they passed, there
was a rustle of silk skirts, a strong odor of
perfume and a flutter of waving feathers.
They were most politely shown to the de-
partment they wished, and some one sum-
moned to wait on them. The little lady
noted the difference, how she had patiently
awaited her turn at the counter, made her
necessary purchases and without any form-
alties prepared to leave the store. It hap-
pened that the same car on which this little
woman returned home were these two young
women and this is part of the conver-
sation she overheard: “My, I’m tired, I
believe I’ve tried on every suit in town to-
day.” “Say, wasn’t some of ’em swell,
and ain’t it just fun to turn around in front
of them big looking glasses and see your-
self in such finery, I felt almost rich in that
fifty dollar cloak in——while to tell the
truth I didn’t have a cent but car fare.”
	Now the girls in the stores had fitted and
displayed their goods to these two women,
believing by their appearance that they
could and would purchase, and they had
been grossly imposed upon. The two had
only been idling away an afternoon around
town, trying on expensive gowns just for
amusement.
	A very lovely young woman, who is a
nurse by profession was sent to the case of a
young married woman who had no provision
in her home for her approaching sickness,
not any decent underwear or bed linen or
little wardrobe, but lounged around all day
in a soiled wrapper and slipshod slippers,
reading cheap novels, and every evening
dressed up in a lace trimmed gown and a
picture hat and sauntered out to meet her
husband. The nurse thought perhaps she
felt that while she, the nurse, was there she
might as well take things easy, but every-
thing indicated that these habits were the
usual thing and surely no true lady would
be so very negligent of herself.
	A lady just returned from a trip through
the northwest, made the remark how simply
and neatly the women she had met dressed,
especially on the streets, and then compared
them to our own girls at home, saying that
the evening previous she had been out to
the Lake, and a storm came up, and she
was quite sure she had seen hundreds of
dollars worth of millinery destroyed, not
to speak of the wet and bedraggled appear-
ance of the elegant summer gowns. Few
had wraps of any kind, and certainly their
health was menaced.
	Surely a well and elegantly dressed wom-
an is a beautiful sight but that does not
follow that one’s clothes are the standard of
one’s breeding. Good taste and simplicity
in dress; for street wear in particular, are


far more commendable than showy and ex-
pensive articles. Extreme in dress is not
good taste and an inordinate fondness for
dress often leads to paths of sorrow.
The true lady is always the lady whether
clothed in satin or home spun. Fine feath-
ers do not make fine birds.
						A.W. C


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
[LIFE AND TRAVELS OF NANCY M. TRACY.]
		(Continuation from page 16.)
	Before we realized any benefit from the
crops we had to live very close, sometimes
dig roots and pick greens to make a meal,
also shoes and clothing we could not get to
be comfortable. But one thing, the spirit
of mobocracy had lulled and we had peace
so far in Caldwell county. But the third
year after we had settled there and begun to
spread out and increase and prosper, the
enemy began to stir up the hearts of the peo-
ple. Mobs would come where there were
small settlements, and abuse the inhabitants
and turn their horses into the brethrens
cornfields, burn houses, and so on, until the
brethren had to stand in self defense; they
had been smitten on one cheek and turned
the other until they thought it was enough.
	The Haun’s Mill massacre, will ever be
remembered, and the stain will be handed
down to posterity of the notorious and
bloody butchery that befell the innocent
citizens by fiends in human form; there was
justice nowhere to be found. At Crooked
River there was a settlement, this was 20
miles from Far West. A band of mobo-
crats with a Methodist preacher at their
head (named Beauregard) for a captain,
rode into this settlement, took men prison-
ers without any cause whatever, insulted
women and destroyed property. Finally
the brethren dispatched a messenger in the
night to Far West for assistance. The al-
arm was given at midnight by the beating
of a drum on the public square. My hus-
band dressed and went over as quickly as
he could, to see what the matter was. They
made a call at once for volunteers to go to
the rescue of these brethren. He came
home and told me that he was going to
Crooked River that night with a company to
assist in dispersing the mob. I had a baby
two weeks old and ague and fever had set
in and no one to stay with me, but I told
him to go, I would do the best I could.
	The company started right away with this
short notice, for they had to stand as min-
ute men in these perilous times. They
rode on to the edge of the timber that skirt-
ed the river, when the guard of the mob fired
upon them and killed one young man by
the name of Obanion. Two or three of the
brothers took charge of him while the com-
pany went on down to disperse the camp of
mobocrats. The consequence was a battle.
The enemy was routed out, but not without
the shedding of blood. Captain D. W. Pot-
ter was wounded and died the next day,
Gideon Carter killed outright, and others
of the brethren wounded, but in the conflict
the enemy took to flight, and of course left
their company outfit. Some left their har-
ness, while others cut their horses loose and
rode them away; and in their flight some
left their guns, and as is always customary
in battle, the spoils of the defeated party
are taken by the victors, and in this case I
would ask who are the aggressors, and who
fired the first shot? Our brethren merely
went to this place to try and protect their

[Column 2]
neighbors from the ravages of this mob and
to make peace, if possible. Would or could
they see men shot down and not raise a
hand in defense of their fellowmen? Verily
the brethren were justified in what they did
according to both the law of God and the
law of the land. My husband had his sword
torn from him in the conflict, and in the
spoil he took a rifle. Now I suppose this
would be called stealing by some of the
enemy. Some of the most abominable
falsehoods have been in circulation about
the Mormons; such as Mr. Cullom alluded to
in his notorious speech.
	Well to return to my narrative. My hus-
band came home next day. I had not been
out of bed, for I was too sick; my little boy
Eli, five years old, to wait on me was all
the help I had. I saw at a glance there
had been trouble, and he related to me
what had happened and of the brethren be-
ing killed. It overcame me; and I was
sicker than ever.
	The news of the battle spread like wild-
fire through the state. This was sufficlent
to arouse the whole state to come out
against a few with their exterminating
orders, because for once our people stood in
self-defence determined to protect their
brethren from the outrages of these hostile
people, for they were nothing else, but as I
said the whole state was now aroused and
in arms to come against us: their leader,
General Clark, marched his hosts of thous-
ands up to within a mile and a half of Far
West and camped. Clark, with some of his
officers, came into Far West and demanded
our Prophet and brother Hyrum and several
others of the brethren and took them as
prisoners down to their camp, and put a
guard around them. Previous to their being
taken into the camp of the enemy Brother
Joseph had called the brethren together
and talked to them and told them to be val-
ant and firm and trust in God, he said, “I
never realized the enemy so near our doors,
but brethren be stout-hearted,” and said
many more things to nerve up and strength-
en them in their hour of peril, for it seemed
as though we were to be swallowed up by
this mighty host.
	As I said, they put a strong guard around
these brethren held a court martial and sen-
tenced them to be shot next morning. I was
still sick in bed, but that night I could hear
their martial band playing, and I can never
forget the sound, for it seemed that all the
infuriated demons of the lower regions felt
to triumph because they expected to see
these pure and noble men shot down. When
morning came their hopes were blasted.
True, as the song says, “God moves in a mys-
terious way,” and so on. All at once a spir-
it more noble than the rest (Colonel Doni-
phan) ordered the men under his command
into line and to march. Said he “I will
have nothing to do with such cold-blooded
murder.”  This caused a division, and an
insurrection in their camp, so their lives were
spared this time, and they were brought up
into the city and permitted to take leave of
their families and aged father and mother
with their little ones clinging to them and
crying. This scene of parting was enough
to melt the heart of stone.
	My husband did not witness this, for the
time had come that he had to take care of
himself for they were hunting for all those
that had been in the Crooked River battle.
These men were hurled off to prison to suffer
from hunger, thirst and cold during the win-
ter months. After they had secured these
prisoners, the General came into the public

[Column 3]
square and required the brethren to sign
over their property to defray the expenses of
the war, and made his speech, also gave his
order of extermination. The brethren had
to stake their arms. My husband had given
the gun he had taken among the spoils to
another previous, so it was among the rest,
his own he had taken apart, thrown the bar-
rel on the house, and the rest into the cellar,
so they did not get it.
	Well, it is told in Church history all these
events, and Clark’s speech concerning our
leaders and their fate and ours. I merely
bear my testimony of the facts because they
came under my observation. My house was
near the public square. Captain Beauregard
with his man were camped near my house.
They came to my house to search for arms
and for my husband, and they were close
upon him, but in God’s providence he
evaded them, and they never found him.
Although he could not remain around home,
yet he was in the city. They had a double
guard around my house. Myself, my oldest
boy, five years old then. Eli Tracy, now re-
siding in Huntsville, Utah, another boy
three years, and my baby, now three weeks
old, in my arms in bed, thus was I in prison
in my own house, and sick at that, with
nothing to nourish and strengthen me,
and only my little boy to give me
a drink of water. Finally Brother Wood
came with his wagon and told me
he would take me to his house, which he
did that day. I shook two hours with the
ague, and it was the last chill I had. I was
shaking when I was put into the wagon, as
though every bone in my body would drop
to pieces. So the guard had nothing bnt
the vacated house to guard.
	Now the crisis had come, we had got to
leave the state and not attempt to put in
another crop, if we did the citizens would be
upon us again. This, the General said, was
a decisionary power vested in him, to let us
stay until spring, so when he had driven the
hoop as tight as he could he told his armies
to go to their homes and hold themselves in
readiness in case they were called for again.
It was in vain to importune for redress,
there was no attention given to our entreat-
es. This crusade was suffered to go on
against an innocent people and no notice
was taken of it, no alternative but to sacri-
fice our homes and lands that were bought
and honestly paid for. And why this out-
burst of persecution? For the same reason
that in every age of the world when God had
a people on the earth they were persecuted,
imprisoned and put to death in like manner
for their religion; and because they wor-
shiped the true and living God and obeyed His
commandments, and not because they had
broken any law, because in the strictest
sense of the word they were a law-abiding
community, and no one honored and re-
vered the laws of the land more than the
Latter-day Saints, and were taught to do so,
and I know whereof I speak; and it is true,
and I feel constrained to write as I do, for
perhaps to some one who does not know
what to believe, there has been and is still so
much falsehood afloat about this people. I
say here is my testimony that there is not a
people on the face of the earth that is as
careful to obey and uphold law and good
order as the Latter-day Saints. I have lived
in the world and traveled much, have been
identified with this Church for fifty years,
and I speak according to knowledge. Well
it is all right, we are to be a tried people,
and to be like gold, seven times tried.
		(TO BE CONTINUED.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


PROGRESS.
When the foundations of the earth were laid,
	And darkness hover’d o’er the space,
This good “world beautiful” so perfect made,
	And sun and stars had found their place,
Then darkness fled before the coming day—
	When God proclaimed “Let there be light!”
For His Omnipotence, and pow’r held sway
	And he divided day and night.
Fair morning in her maiden beauty rose
	All blushes like a virgin bride;
The world awaken’d from the night’s repose
	By her sweet presence beautified.
’Twas then the morning stars together sung,
	And angels minister’d on earth;
All nature’s voices in glad chorus rung,
	Rejoicing in the world’s new birth—
For man was born’ and unto him was given
	Dominion over living things,
And woman, fresh from out the courts of heav’n
	A benediction with her brings—
The dawn of progress in a new-born race,
	The growth of beings multiplied;
And down the ages filling time and place,
	True knowledge life has glorified.

There have been wonders in the long ago,
	Empires have flourish’d in their way,
Their thrones and kingdoms, their great works
		laid low,
	Their progress crush’d and pass’d away.
We boast of great achievements in our time,
	Of ingenuity and wondrous skill
Talk of the sciences in flights sublime,
	Controling forces at their will.
Men have won laurels in the halls of fame,
	Have solv’d great problems, to be sure,
But can they justly lasting merit claim
	For progress made that will endure?
And who can say what progress most has done
	To help mankind to higher things?
What vict’ry have we gained, what triumph won,
	With all that art and science brings?
Wise men of old, e’en prophets in their time
	Have dealt with life’s great mysteries;
And poets sung in rhythmic strains sublime
	Through the long line of centuries.

In the Meridian of time the Savior came,
	“The Golden Rule” to man He taught;
And by His teaching, and thro’ Jesus name,
	The world received new light, new thought,
He who has given to the world His best,
	Who has some blessed message brought,
And ministers to human soul’s distress’d
	Has far the greater progress wrought
We hail the day, when knowledge shall increase,
	And cover earth from sea to sea;
When all mankind shall dwell in perfect peace,
	And light and truth obtaln the victory.
				EMMELINE B. WELLS.


[Column 1]
			PROGRAM.
	Daughters of the Revolution.
			SEPTEMBER.
	Declaration of Independence, Causes and
effect on the world—Clarissa S. Williams (20
minutes.)
	Bills of Exchange—Their origin and
force, Phebe Y. Beatie. (20 minutes.)
	Oration by James Otis—Ella W. Hyde.

			OCTOBER.
	Read Constitution of the United States,
and discussion of same, led by Emmeline
B. Wells. (20 minutes.)
	Read the By Laws. Discussion on same
led by Julia A. F. Lund. (15 minutes).
	Oration by Patrick Henry—Clarissa Y.
Spencer.
	The First National Bank under President
George Washington—Phebe Y. Beatie. (15
minutes.)
	Questions of Finance. Bona-fide holders
—Judge Lewis.

			NOVEMBER.
	Treaty 1795 with Spain which settled the
boundary line between the U. S. and Louis-
ana—Diana F. Rich. (15 minutes.)
	How the right of Navigation of the Miss-

[Column 2]
issippi was secured and its importance, in
the world’s commerce—Lucy W. Smith. (15
minutes.)
	Oration by Daniel Webster to be read by
Emily C. Willey.
	U. S. Currency. (10 minutes.)

			JANUARY, 1910.
	International affairs during Adams’ ad-
ministration 1797-1801—Mary E. R. Web-
ber. (15 minutes.)
	The Louisiana Purchase (Jefferson’s ad-
ministration)—Elizabeth R. Wright. (10
miuutes.)
	Lewis & Clark Expedition—Ella W.
Hyde. (10 minutes.)
	Bills of Lading and Warehouse Receipts
—Myra Y. Rossiter. (10 minutes.)
	The Duel and Debts of Honor—Julia
A. F. Lund. (10 minutes.)

			FEBRUARY.
	Negotiations with Mexico during Madi-
son’s Administration. (15 minutes.)
	The Monroe Doctiine, its Application and
Effect—Isabel M. Sears. (20 minutes.)
	Property Rights of Women—Mabel S.
Cole, (15 minutes.)
	Oration by Susan B. Anthony—Maria Y.
Dougall.

				MARCH.
	The Negotiable Instrument—Alice Mer-
rill Horne. (20 minutes.)
	The Spirit of Invention—Julia P. M.
Farnsworth. (20 minutes.)
	Group of Henry W. Longfellow’s Poems
—Rachel Campbell.
	The Aeroplane—Mary E. R. Webber. (20
minutes.)
				APRIL.
	Lincoln, the Ideal Type of American
manhood, and his Influence on the Policy
and Destiny of our Nation—Carol Y. Can-
non. (25 minutes.)
	The Evolution of Medicine and Surgery—
Elizabeth R. Wright. (25 minutes.)
Selections from William J. Byran—Diana
F. Rich.

				MAY.
	Equal Suffrage—Emmeline B. Wells. (20
minutes.)
	The Arctic Explorers—Clarissa Y. Spen-
cer. (20 minutes.)
	Policy of the Roosevelt Administration—
Emily C. Willey. (20 minutes.)
	Selections from Holmes, Whittier and Bry-
ant led by Sarah F. Smith.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT. M
		UINTAH STAKE.
		Synopsis of Minutes. 
	The 49th conference of the Relief Society
of Uintah Stake was held in the Vernal
ward house Aug. 20, 1909, commencing at
10 a. m., President Nancy A. Colton presid-
ing.
	Singing by choir and congregation, “Our
mountain home so dear,” and prayer and
other usual opening exercises an address of
welcome and a report of the stake was given
by President Nancy A. Colton. The wards
or part of the wards had not been doing
much of late on account of the quarantine
for small pox. Spoke of the grain that had
been loaned out and the good it had done.
	Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett further reported
the question of the grain that had been
loaned to the people on the reservation for
it surely relieved the suffering of many peo-
ple, and they would receive it all back.

[Column 2]
	Recitation by Miss Clara Spears, entitled
“In the King’s Palace.”
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne spoke of the
scenery along the road, and congratulated
the people in their labors. Also spoke of
the mother’s work in the Relief Society,
advised the sisters to make their own plans
to work to. Explained the duties of the
teachers, said it is not only their duty to
look after the sick physically, but to build
them up spiritually. Thought mothers
should make heaven at home whether rich or
poor, whether living in a log house or a man-
sion. She felt to encourage the sisters to
work with their hands and brains together.
	Sister Vilate Bennion, from Salt Lake
City, was pleased to meet with the sisters,
she explained the mother’s work, we should
meet and get each other’s views and ideas,
referred to a speech that Elder Morris had
made in a Relief Society meeting that if they
can interest the mothers, they can win
the children. We should give our lectures
our greatest study, and ask all the questions
we can find on the subject.
	President Nancy A. Colton thought we
had heard a great deal of the Gospel; spoke
of mothers trying to control themselves, be-
fore they try to control their children.
Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. with sing-
ing and benediction.
	Afternoon session, choir and congregation
sang “Hail to the brightness.” Prayer and
singing.
	Sister Mary A. Stringham gave an outline
of the work the Relief Society are doing,
Spoke of mothers not neglecting their fam-
lies, but watching over and taking care of
them.
	Sister Hannah Odekirk reported the Vernal
Relief Society in good condition.
	Sister Vilate Bennion spoke of the great
work we can do with the children if we only
persevere.
	Song by group of little girls led by Ethel-
wynne Collett, accompanied by Retta Bell.
	Sister Alice M. Horne had been delighted
with the singing, for people who love to sing,
love to work, and work is what we want. Spoke
of the power and ability each one is blessed
with, and thought we should try to develop
the ability in our midst, for that is what our
Prophet Joseph Smith did. We should
look into our families and see what gift our
children are blessed with and try and culti-
vate that gift. Said Aunt Bathsheba
Smith sent her greetings and best wishes.
She has confidence in the stake officers, she
then spoke on mothers work and encour-
aged the young women to join the Relief
Society.
	Elder Don B. Colton, first counselor to
the president of the stake, made an excuse
for President William H. Smart not being
at conference, said he is in the more scatter-
ed part of the stake, thinking that this part
is more able to take care of itself. “I know
that I voice his sentiments when I say we
feel the good the Relief Society does in the
community.” Referred to the suffering that
had been on the reservation and the help
that the Relief Society of this valley gave
them. Alluded to the grain that had been
loaned to the people on the reservation and
the good it had done, he also advised the
sisters to gather grain in the time and season.
	President Nancy A. Colton felt to give
the visiting sisters a vote of thanks for their
visit, thanked all who had helped in making
this conference a success.
	Singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning.” Conference adjourned for three
months.	PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

				Woman’s Exponent

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-	-	OCTOBER, 1909.


PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF.
	The history of President Woodruff has
been published very recently by the Deseret
News. and the work of preparing this book
for publication has been very creditably
done by Matthias F. Cowley—the title page
reads “Wilford Woodruff, Fourth President
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, History of his Life and Labors as re-
corded in his daily Journal.
	Then appears the suitable quotation from
the New Testament:
	“To him that overcometh will I grant to
sit with me on my throne, even as I also
overcame and am set down with my Father
in his throne, Rev. 3:21,
	This appears a very appropriate verse for
such a man as President Woodruff. The
signature under his picture on the first page
of the volume, is significant of the character
of the man himself, straightforward, upright,
one could never believe him vacillating, or
in any way wavering from what he knew to
be right.
	The dedication reads:
	“To his numerous and ever increasing
family. And to all who love the name and
memory of President Wilford Woodruff,
this work is respectfully dedicated.”
	The book is handsomely bound and only
the name and Coat of Arms of the Wood-
ruff family appear upon the cover.
	There are 57 chapters in the book and 702
pages. The principal subjects are named
in the paragraphs of contents, so that it will
be easy to refer to certain remarkable
events in the life of this illustrious Elder,
Apostle, Historian, and President of the
Church. 
	The Latter-day Saints will welcome with
joy and laudable pride the publication of the
life and labors of this great and good man,
so dearly beloved by the people.
	Aside from that it will be very valuable to
all, on account of its containing so much
historic information of Church matters,
and of individuals from the days of Kirtland
to the time of his death.
	President Woodruff was born March 1st,
1807, in Farmington, Hartford Co., Conn.,
and was a bonafide Yankee, though of Eng-
lish extraction. President Woodruff says
that “according to the ancient Book of Her-
aldry, one of his ancestors was Lord Mayor
of London in 1579.”
	Brother Woodruff possessed many estim-
able qualities and characteristics, but one of
the crowning virtues was his sincere and
genuine humility, which was apparent in


all he did and said, a plain man, unosta-
tious, and yet the Lord exalted him to the
highest position in the Church, at a time in
its history when there was need of a man
who could be trusted to carry out the will
of the Lord, even if it were against his own
feelings and interests.
	The Lord made manifest His confidence
in this unassuming man and he delivered
the divine message to the people. He was
without guile—upright, honest and faithful
in all places and under all circumstances.
The book will be a veritable treasure-trove in
every household; it contains such practical
lessons as the children need, and moral and
religious examples all the Saints should fol-
low, It may be truthfully said of him, he
lived “the simple life.”


PRESIDENT WILLIAM H. TAFT.
	The visit to Utah of His Excellency the
Chief Executive of this nation, was an event
of considerable importance, and the fact of
his remaining three days in this state is cer-
tainly a favorable compliment to the people.
We hope and trust he will realize how deep-
ly the people of the state appreciate the
honor, and will better understand hereafter
the loyalty and patriotism of the pioneers
who settled the American Desert and made
it habitable for others to come, as well as
very desirable. President Taft’s address in
the Tabernacle was very pleasing and we
think profitable to the large congregation,
and his affable and unassuming manner
won all hearts; his text was well chosen,
and he handled the subject of his sermon
diplomatically, proving himself a very good
preacher of righteousness, if not accustomed to
the pulpit. Altogether the visit was a success
even if it was in a way fatiguing to go here
and there and see so much as he is seeing and
doing from day to day. The people who
saw the President here have had a most
favorable impression of his gracious and
dignified appearance, and we feel sure
Utah as a state appreciates the honor of the
visit and the children who saw him will
never forget while they live, for he is a man
of distinguished bearing, aside from his ex-
alted position.
	Perhaps the most unique feature of all
that was done for his entertainment here,
was the “Living Flag.” The sight of those
20,000 children waving the Flag of the Na-
tion and singing “The Star Spangled Ban-
ner,” brought tears to President Taft’s eyes,
and therefore it is apparent he is somewhat
emotional. The saying, “The bravest are
the tenderest,” is true today as it al-
ways has been.
	Much has been said concerning the Presi-
dent’s speeches and his sermon and his
journeyings through this mountain country
by the newspapers East and West, but it
only enhances the value of his visit to us,
who know the good that is always accom-
plished when honorable and just men see
things for themselves free from prejudice or
bias.
	We are, as a people, grateful and appre-
ciative of kindness shown, and have on
other occasions sought to do honor when
visits have been made by men in high posi-
tions, Presidents, Judges and members of
Congress, and the greatest men who have hon-
ored Utah by their presence have been favor-
ably impressed, and many have acknowl-
edged the courtesies extended to them.
	The Latter-day Saints have ever been hos-
pitable and kindly to the stranger within
their gates, and many great men and wom-


en of the world have been entertained in
“Mormon” homes.
	We sincerely hope and pray that Presi-
dent Taft may enjoy his extended tour
through the West and South, and return to
the White House in excellent health and
spirits to carry forward the labor and
responsibility incumbent upon the Chief
Executive of this great nation—the United
States of dear America.


GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The October Relief Society Conference was
a very interesting one, and the attendance
from outside stakes was quite numerous,
the program as published previously was
carried out in nearly every particular. Spec-
ial music was one of the enjoyable features.
The selections rendered on Tuesday after-
noon, Oct. 5, by Prof. J. J. McClellan on
the piano, and Prof. W. E. Weihe on the
violin, were a very great pleasure to all who
had the opportunity to hear the soul-
thrilling strains.
	The instructions by the venerable
president, Batesheba W. Smith, touched
every heart and her presence was in itself
most gratifying to all who had the pleasure
of seeing her once more in her accustomed
place upon the platform; her inspiring words
fell upon the ears of the congregation, re-
freshing all hearts. She welcomed the sis-
ters and blessed them in her peculiar grac-
ious way, speaking of her great love for
those engaged in the work, and entreated
them to keep the faith and teach it to their
children.
	The General Secretary, Emmeline B.
Wells, gave the report of the year’s work
and the principal events that had transpired,
mentioning the sisters who had passed away
during the current year—Counselor Annie
Taylor Hyde, and member of the Board of
Directors, Rebecca E. Little; also Sophia
Taylor Nuttall and Harriet Ann Taylor Badg-
er who had been missionaries for the Gen-
eral Society, and Laura H. Miner, a mem-
ber of the Board of directors when this Soci-
ety was incorporated in Oct. 1892, and had
served until after her removal to Logan.
Other important events were briefly men-
tioned.
	The General Treasurer, Sister Clarissa S.
Williams, read the treasurer’s report of the
General Society receipts and disbursements
for the year, also the report of the building
fund and made special explanations in re-
gard to these very important matters; advised
the officers of the several stakes of Zion to
manage money matters systematically and
make it a point to be prompt and specific
in regard to this special department of Re-
lief Society business.
	Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward sang most
exquisitely a solo entitled, “O Loving
Father,” Delriego.
	Phebe Y. Beatie, Chairman of Nurse
Work, gave some instructions upon taking
care of the human body and knowing con
cerning it. and how essential to understand
more, especially for mothers, and our young
women, and urged the sisters in all the so-
cieties of Zion to take this matter in hand,
and she hoped that instead of thirty girls or
women in the nurse class, we should have
forty or more, referred to noble mothers as
examples, those who had been students of
such subjects as hygiene and health. Sis-
ter Beatie gave some quotations from Her-
bert Spencer and Mary Wood Allen, and re-
ferred to some special cases that had come
under her own observation.


[Column 1]
	Sister Minnie Horne James had the sub-
ject Study Lessons, which she spoke of as
an advance step in the right direction;
thought we had neglected the mental part in
the past, we had done much temporal work
to the neglect of the mind. We are anx-
ious to have things comfortable around us,
but if we would give more attention to gain-
ing knowledge we would be better qualified
to comprehend our true position. Some-
times we take up a book and read a page
and then turn back to see what we have
been reading before. Spoke of those who
thought they were too old to learn; referred
to a woman she knew who even learned to
read after she was sixty years old. Sister
James urged the sisters to study and im-
prove their minds, it would make them
more useful in any position in life, there is
everywhere opportunity to read and study.
	A sister from Alpine Stake spoke of one
ward in that Stake where questions were
written and handed to the sisters to be
answered. She knew of many instances
where women in years had studied and ac-
quired learning and knowledge; the sugges-
tion of handing questions in at meeting
seemed to be a good one to adopt whenever
apropriate.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry gave a
very instructive talk on the mother and the
child; referred to the time long ago of a
woman famous in the past who was gentle,
loving and tender, said we know of her beau-
tiful character and purity, we read in the
Greek mythology of Pandora, the first
woman. One day she lifted the lid of a
box, and three boxes contained all the vices;
she lifted the second time and Hope came
out of the box. Hope brings faith, and
what would we live for if it were not for
faith? She dwelt eloquently upon this sub-
ject. Napoleon said to Madame de Stael,
“All we need to make France the glory of
the world, is to have good women.” The
speaker dwelt upon this subject with much
pathos and enthusiasm, and proved how
much love and tenderness in the home
meant to all the household; the points taken
by the speaker were happily illustrated and
reference was made to the teachers who visit
the sick; love, sympathy and faith are nec-
essary to all, and music on the great harp of
life is what we all need and can cultivate to
make home and happiness.
	The officers and members of the Board
of Directors of the Society were then pre-
sented by Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry, and
also the several Committees, names, etc.
	Bathsheba W. Smith, General President.
	Ida S. Dusenberry, Counselor.
	Emmeline B. Wells, General Secretary.
	Clarissa S. Williams, General Treasurer.
	Jane S. Richards, Sarah Jenne Cannon,
Romania B. Penrose, Susan Grant, Emma S.
Woodruff; Julina L. Smith, Emily S. Rich-
ards, Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Phebe Y.
Beatie, Carrie S. Thomas, Alice Merrril
Horne, Annie Wells Cannon, Priscilla P. Jen-
nings, Elizabeth S. Wilcox. Harriet B.
Harker, Minnie H. James, Rebecca N. Nib-
ley, Amy B. Lyman, Annie K. Hardy.
	Lizzie T. Edward, Musical Director.
	Edna H. Coray, Organist.
	Emma A. Empey, Superintendent Grad-
uated Relief Society Nurses.
	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, Instructor Relief
Society School of Nurses.
	Chairman Standing Committees:
	Emmeline B. Wells, Building Committee.
	Phebe Y. Beatie, Relief Society School of
Nurses.

[Column 2]
	Clarissa S. Williams, Building Furnish-
ing Committee.
	Carrie S. Thomas, Press Committee.
	Julina L. Smith, Hospital Committee.
	Singing “Love at Home.” Benediction,
Dr. Margaret C. Roberts.
	Adjourned to Thursday, Oct. 7, 10 a. m.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


“JOHN STEVEN’S COURTSHIP.”
	A new book has recently been issued from
the Deseret News office entitled “John
Steven’s Courtship.” The author is the ver-
satile and prolific writer and journalist,
Susa Young Gates, well and favorably known
both in the United States and Europe. Mrs.
Gates is a daughter of Brigham Young, and
possesses much of his marvelous ability.
	The book is unique in many respects; it
deals with facts and fiction ingeniously con-
nected, and cannot fail to deeply interest
its readers. Some names that the book
contains are as familiar to the people of
Utah as household words, and the Echo
Canyon war, of which it is really a story, is
one of the most historic events in “Mormon”
history, and marks an epoch in Utah that
is strongly emphasized because of its pathetic
and thrilling incidents and its triumphant
outcome. If it were only for the fact of its
dealing with this subject, the book should
recommend itself wherever it might be cir-
culated, certainly our own young people will
be more or less fascinated with a story that
deals principally with their own mountain
homes, and the stirring events of those
troublous times, never to be erased from
the memory of even the little children who
recall the incidents of what was significantly
spoken of then as “The Move South.”
	If the Mormon women who were living at
that time were to give personal experiences
of what transpired during that eventful year
from July, 1857 to the fall of 1858, it would
make a most romantic story without the
embellishment of fiction. There is no lack
of material for writing interesting reminis-
cences, and we assuredly are “a peculiar
people” with a wonderful history.
	“John Steven’s Courtship” ought to sell
well outside of Utah, and now that Salt Lake
City has become so famous that many thous-
ands of tourists visit it every year, Mormon
literature may perhaps become popular.
	Therefore, we are safe in saying this book
will have a ready sale, the simple title of
“Courtship” bespeaks its popularity to young
folks, and “Echo Canyon war” will appeal to
most people, and is a new subject for a story,
although given second place as a sub-
title.


“THRILLING INCIDENTS.”

	A book has been issued during the pres-
ent year by Solomon F. Kimball containing
incidents and experiences in his own life,
that are very extraordinary, and to those
who are interested in spiritual matters of
prophecy, visions and manifestations, this
book will appeal with very great interest.
It is a wonderful work, and vividly portrays
the depth of religious feeling with which the
author has been inspired, not only while 
writing the book, but in passing through
the peculiar circumstances so feelingly given
in its pages.
	Brother Solomon Farnham Kimball is
the son of Heber C. and Vilate Murray Kim-
ball, both well known as early members of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day


Saints, and greatly beloved by all our peo-
ple while living, and the memory of their
faith and integrity will stand forever, as a
waymark to the Latter-day Saints.
	Solomon Kimball, the author, has many
of the sterling and noble qualities of his par-
ents, and the book has been written out of
the fulness of his own heart with a genuine
desire to do good to those who are wayward
and “sometime disobedient,” that they may
walk in the paths of truth and righteous-
ness and not yield to temptation. It is, as
its title indicates, thrilling in the extreme.
The book is of a character to give the reader
much food for thought. One is reminded
of the startling sermons of Heber C. Kim-
ball and also of the conversion of the Apos-
tle Paul. We are told the book is having a
ready sale, and we hope and trust it may
do much good among the young people.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	There are some important notes left over
that will appear in the next issue of the
paper, and an excellent article by Sister
Lydia D. Alder.
	The Regent of the Utah Society Daugh-
ters of the Revolution has received word
from the President General of the D. R.
Society of the U. S., Mrs. Adeline Frances
Fitz, that she will visit the Utah State
Society in her Western tour; and it is ex-
pected she will arrive in this city, Thursday,
November 12, and remain until Sunday
afternoon, November 15. Suitable arrange-
ments are being made by the Regent and
Committees of members appointed by her,
and a good time is anticipated.
	The Daughters of the Revolution held the
first meeting after the summer vacation,
Sept. 16, 1909, at the home of the new
Regent, Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne. The oc-
casion was a very enjoyable one, the artistic
home being decorated in a pleasing style in
the Society colors. The Regent gave her
inaugural address to the daughters in a most
gracious manner, and cordially welcoming
them to her home. Other numbers of the
program was rendered, and the guests pro-
ceeded to the dining room where the table
had been laid in the prettiest way, and the
menu served was of the finest and daintiest
possible to obtain, fish baked in sea shells,
and other delicacies of the season, a large
bowl or vase filled with the choicest flowers
in the Society colors and covered with baby
wreath formed the center piece, with finest
linen, china, and cutglass, the table was a
delightful picture, and the ladies were in
the happiest mood imaginable. The con-
versation corresponded to the surroundings,
and the appetizing luncheon was thorough-
ly enjoyed. A very excellent and auspic-
ous beginning to open the 12th year of
work of the Utah State Society.
	Saturday, Oct. 16, 1909, the Daughters
of the Revolution held the second meeting
of the season in the handsome parlors of the
new and elegant residence of Dr. and Mrs.
Elias Wright. The rooms were beautifully
decorated, and the Regent, Mrs. Alice M.
Horne, opened the meeting promptly and
dispatched such business as required im-
mediate attention. The regular program
consisted of the reading of the Constitution
of the United States by Mrs. E. B. Wells
with a view to prepare for discussion. This
was followed by Judge T. D. Lewis on Fin-
ance, etc., who spoke with painstaking in-


terest, explaining questions relating thereto
explicitly, and explained the term Bona-
fide holders of promissory notes in detail. A
rising vote of thanks was given Judge
Thomas D. Lewis for his interesting ad-
dress, and a delicious luncheon was served
to the company, including the Judge, after
which the session resumed the transaction
of important business, pertaining to the an-
ticipated visit in November of the President
General of the Society, Mrs. Adeline Frances
Fitz, of Wakefield Mass. Mrs. E. B. Wells,
member of the Committee of the General
Society on Patriotic work presented the re-
quest from the Chairman of that Commit-
tee in reference to raising means to build a
suitable memorial to the sailors of the Revo-
lution at Annapolis, Maryland, a work
never yet undertaken. Mrs. Wells stated
that the President General of the society had
corresponded with the Department of the U.
S. Navy of the United States and had re-
ceived favorable replies in the matter. The
ladies responded graciously, although
the Regent felt they should be informed as
to what the memorial would be. Mrs.
Wells was not able to furnish that informa-
tion, as the whole matter is still in embryo.
Meeting adjourned after several committees
had been appointed to arrange for suitable
entertainment for the President General’s
sojourn in the city.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	A brief sketch of the life of Sister Maren Peder-
sen.
	Sister Pedersen was born at Stroe, Sjolland,
Denmark, April 29, 1823 Her parents and her
children were greatly honored and respected
among their associates. They were prosperous
farmers and mechanics, and were possessed of
considerable musical ability. She and her hus-
band, Hans Pedersen, embraced the Gospel in
1862, emigrated to Zion in 1866, came to East
Mill Creek, but moved on the Weber in Summit
county, then removed to Wilford Ward, in the
Granite Stake, where they finally made their
home.
	Hans Pedersen died twenty years ago last
June.
	Sister Pedersen was the mother of ten children,
six of whom preceded her to the other side.
	She identified herself with the Relief Society in
1870, and later became a teacher in that organiza-
tion. She was a conscientious and faithful wotk-
er, kind to the poor and afflicted, even the ani-
mals shared her love and kindness. Her name is
found on the tithing, Relief Society and grain as-
sociation records; and wherever and whenever a
call was made upon her she always responded
cheerfully and liberally.
	She was very hospitable, none went from her
door hungry, and many she had clothed, like
“Dorcas of old.”
	She would card and spin and knit mittens and
stockings for many little cold hands and feet,
	She would rather deny herself than see others
suffer or go without help. She truly honored her
father and mother, for she lived her religion
faithfully; she also worked in the Salt Lake and
Logan Temples for her departed kindred as far as
she could secure their genealogy.
	She was the only member of her father’s house-
hold who embraced the Gospel, and because of
her faithfulness lived to a good, old age. She
enjoyed the love and tender care of her children
and grandchildren until the close of her eventful
life.
	Sister Pedersen died June 3, 1909, and leaves
one son, three daughters, twenty-seven grand-
children, twenty-three great-grandchildren and a
host of true friends, to mourn her departure. She
died as she lived in full faith of the Gospel, and a
hope of a glorious resurrection, as well as an
eternal union with her loved ones.
					ANSINE M. PETERSON,
In behalf of the Relief Society of the Wilford
Ward in the Granite Stake.


[Column 1]	
			TANTE RORA.
			A SKETCH.
	Were you ever in Berne—that quaintest
of all cities, with its dark arcades, its queer
clock of bears, representing the apostles, its
gates and towers, its bear pits? To step over
from sunny gay Paris into this queer little
place is like dropping back from the twen-
tieth century into the middle ages; and in
order to realize that one really is living in
modern times it becomes necessary to strang-
ers and students resident there, to slip away
occasionally to Paris or Berlin or some other
place with street cars and electric lights.
Yet if you really want to study life in human
pictures, the charm and quiet of this old-
fashioned place will draw you back and hold
you.
	Nowhere else in Switzerland are the Alps
more lovely—where else does the after glow
ever seem so bright? Long after the even-
ing shadows have fallen upon the valleys
and the lingering rays of the evening sun
have faded from the snowy peaks them-
selves, the mountains begin to glow from
their bases upwards as if illumined by a
bright internal fire. And then that beautiful
green river, the Aare, a hundred feet below
circling serpent-like around the city with its
fine historic bridges—all these form a pict-
ure not repeated on the map of Europe.
	Elsie Frost, a bright American girl from
the Rocky Mountain Region, was one who
experienced all these sensations. She had
been studying art in Paris, and off for a
sketching tour had suddenly come upon this
quaintest of cities and she felt as though she
had fallen into another world. With the
true instinct of the artist, however, she soon
found a wide field for her work and one of
her chief amusements was to study the peo-
ple of the “Matte.” These were those who
earned their two francs a day in the cotton
mills or soap factories or some such place.
On Mondays and Wednesdays the Hausfrau
does her washing—not hers alone but other
people’s too; and this was one of the most
interesting days of all to the young student.
None of your electrical motors nor modern
washing machines here—not even the old-
fashioned tub and washboard; but the “gute
Frau” carries her huge basket down to the
public street fountains, and oh, what gossip
and sociability is indulged in, and what a
picture! Four or five women glibly narrat-
ing the news of their neighbors in the
“Matte,’ while they soap and toss the soiled
garments back and forth on the stones of
the fountain. Elsie used often to wonder
how in the world the clothes ever became
clean without rubbing; but they did, in a
fashion at any rate; the constant flowing
water made fine cleansing.
	One dear old lady, Tante Rora they called
her, always had her clothes clean any way
and she was the one Elsie cared most about,
for she did Elsie’s washing.
	Tante Rora was very tall and not so dark
as most of the Bernese women; and it never
seemed quite natural to see her washing,
she had such dignity and calm demeanor.
When Tante joined in the gossip it was
usually to say some kind word in defense of
the one whose character was being assailed,
and she always seemed to Elsie something
better than her surroundings. Her language,
too, was not the harsh patois of the Ober-
land but something Elsie could better under-
stand, more like the German she was trying
to master under her teacher.
	The singing and babble of the women,
the splash and swish of the clothing on the

[Column 2]
wet stones, the romping and tossing of the
children among the baskets all had a charm
in keeping with the odd quaint city.
	One day Elsie succeeded in ingratiating
herself in Tante Rora’s good favor to the ex-
tent of getting invited to her home in the
Matte. This she had long wanted. Her
curiosity knew no bounds and she had many
times wished she could get inside these
homes, as she had wandered a good deal
through the dark passages, down the stone
steps and along by the river studying the
queer habitations. But she never seemed
to be able to get very close to the people.
Why should these humble folk think a
strange young girl, smart in her dainty
clothes, with her quick, jaunty air, had any
desire to know such slow, toiling bread-
earners! Yet that was just what she did
want—she had a burning desire to know
them and to study them. Artists don’t hunt
subjects in the universities and opera houses
of the world—there art itself is personified
—but in humble haunts where nature has
full sway.
	Few even of the peasants, in this day ever
wear those picturesque costumes of the Can-
tons but Elsie had noted with great satis-
faction that in the Matte some of the women
and girls went to church on Sundays decked
in these “adorable” costumes replete with
fluted stomacher, velvet bodice and collar,
silk apron, silver chains and all, and among
these was Tante Rora.
	In her mind Elsie framed all kinds of
romances about this tall dignified wash-
woman, but never one, if she only knew it,
that equalled the true romance. But let
that pass.
	She finally found her way to the home by
asking to make a study sketch of Tante in
her Swiss costume. The first visit led to
many more until she became quite a familiar
sight along the river front. In return for the
sittings and suggestions she received, Elsie
used to tell such wonderful things of the op-
portunities of her own western home that
several of the families in the Matte became
fired with a desire to emigrate to that great
America. She surely had told them how
low their earnings were in their own land
compared with what they could get in hers,
and she certainly meant them well when
she told Fritz, Tante Rora’s only son that
for what he now received, two francs, he
would get five times so much in America,
that, in fact, he would very shortly receive
enough so the “gute Mutter” would not need
to work at all.
	Through her good management the “gute
Mutter” had been able to save quite a little
hoard of money and she very gladly ad-
vanced this to her boy Fritz to emigrate to
this wonderful America, with the under-
standing that when he found this work
which would pay him so well he send for
his mother. 
	There was some commotion in the “Matte”
getting young Fritz ready for the long
journey; but finally the good-byes were said
and he started for Basle expecting there to
find an emigration agent sending other peo-
ple. He had not long to wait; a boat load
soon started down the Rhine, thence to Ant-
werp, where ship would be taken to bring
them across the broad ocean to the promised
land. He lifted his eyes to the great moun-
tains and watched them until he was far on
the way, tears for a moment in his eyes, but
hope in his heart; and with the bouyancy of
youth he was soon interested in the friendly
jargon around him, and the many expecta-
tions of his fellow-passengers.


[Column 1]
	Fritz was Tante Rora’s only son. She had
a daughter, Frieda, but she never spoke of
her, only perhaps to say, “She lives in the
city and we never see her;” and Elsie soon
learned that Frieda was not counted much
upon in the Matte, therefore not to be talked
about.
	In due time young Fritz reached America
and with the help of a letter Elsie had given
him, for she wisely advised him to go west,
he quickly found employment. His wages
it is true were much better than he had at
home, but he also found that it cost him
much more to live, and then the boy was
quite lonely and he soon began to think he
had better marry. After the first year he
wrote his mother how sorry he was not to
send for her but he had to pay for his room
and board and he hadn’t been able to save
the money.
	About this time the Butikofer family emi-
grated, bringing with them their daughter
Meta. Poor Fritz could not conceal his af-
fection for the pretty girl– he had known
her in his old home and he made haste to
make love to her now; and soon the two
were married.
	At the end of the second year he wrote
again how sorry he was but they were just
trying now to make a home for his mother
to come to, and besides, before long they
were going to surprise her with some good
news just now there were so many things
to get for Meta, but next year surely they
would send.
	And so it went; work was plentiful enough
for Fritz, but with the increase of many fam-
ily cares and the not too frugal ways of
Meta he never seemed to be able to save
anything towards bringing his mother to
him. He did not inherit the thrift and ec-
onomy of his mother, though his inten-
tions were good enough.
	After about three years Elsie found her-
self again in Berne, and she naturally sought
the gossips of the “Matte” at the fountains.
	To her surprise, there she found Tanta
Rora still soaping and splashing soiled gar-
ments on the stones of the fountains.
	“Why, Tanta Rora,” she exclaimed,
“hasn’t Fritz sent for you yet?”
	“No,” replied she, “Fritz is married now,
and has a baby boy and they must buy
a home, so he could not send.’
	“But he owes it to you,” said Elsie; “he
should have sent for you before he mar-
ried.”
	“He writes that perhaps next year he
will,” said his mother, “but by that time I
will have enough of my own to go.”
	And she did. She washed on Mondays
and Wednesdays, sold laces of her own
handiwork in the market on Tuesdays and
Fridays, and scrubbed on Saturdays, never
allowing herself any time for anything but
work, and at the end of the fourth year she
had enough means to go to the Basle, as
Fritz had before her, and engage passage
for America. Some few of her neighbors in
the “Matte” went that year also, so the voy-
age had at least some sociability about it if
nothing else pleasant. These poor steerage
passengers would find the voyage almost un-
bearable were it not for the companion-
ship they give each other.
	Tanta Rora was not so full of hope and
joy as her Fritz had been. Her hard life
had inured her to the old ways and customs
of her native land. She loved the great snowy
mountains, the river Aare, the bears, the dark,
arching towers and arcades of Berne. Her
heart was sad to leave it all and full of fore-
bodings of the long journey and the pros-

[Column 2]
pects of the new home. But one sweet
thought urged her on more than anything,
and that was to clasp to her breast the little
baby boy of whom Fritz and Meta wrote
such wonderful things. She hoped she
might never need to work so hard again,
but help Meta in the home and mind the lit-
tle grandson. But alas for poor Tanta Rora!
There was surely no surcease to her labors.
Fritz loved his mother, and so did Meta, of
course, very much, but about every year or
two a new baby came, and the little home
was not quite paid for, so the “Gute mutter”
must work just the same in the new land as
in the old, only here it was harder. The
modern methods somewhat puzzled her, and
the American ladies seemed so hard to
please. Meta showed her, however about
the washboards and the tubs, and the boil-
ing and sudsing and rinsing and starching,
so that in time she became quite profic-
ient and though she never could learn Eng-
lish, she learned the value of her work and
could easily compute American money.
That was about as far as her knowledge
of English ever went. From a friend she
learned that scrubbing the big stores at
night was also a genteel and profitable occu-
pation among her class, so she sought and
found employment at this.
	Thus, with the help of the “gute mutter”
the home was soon paid for, and many nec-
essary articles of clothing and furniture were
brought into it. Day in, day out, and night
as well, Tanta Rora worked at her washing
and scrubbing and when Sunday came she
was too tired to go anywhere, so she usu-
ally tended the “kinder” for poor Meta to
get a little change. She had one
regret on Sunday—she always longed to put
on her Swiss costume that the American
lady had thought so “perfectly lovely,” and
she brought it with her, but Meta and the
“kinder” said people would laugh at her, if
she wore such an odd habit, so it remained
folded in the wicker trunk in which it had
crossed the sea, and on Sunday she dressed
in the regulation ugly, plain black dress and
white apron of all old ladies who work for a
living.
	After some years abroad Elsie returned to
her western home, hung a few sketches on
exhibition in her native town, sold one or
two, then gave up a “career” and married
an old sweetheart, a prosperous business
man, and settled down to the usual routine
of calling, shopping, clubs and other social
duties of a successful, accomplished matron.
	One evening, happening to have called at
one of the big stores just at closing time for
some trifle, Elsie suddenly ran across Tan-
ta Rora just as she was entering to begin
her evening labor of washing up the floor.
She knew her immediately—Tanta Rora
was not the kind one easily forgets; and she
laughingly gave her greetings in the old
Swiss way. Elsie stopped long enough to
learn where Fritz’s home was, it was his home
now not his mother’s, and somewhat of how
they lived; then with a promise to look them
up she passed on.
	Tanta Rora’s heart was quite lifted up
with this encounter, and she hummed a tune
as she scrubbed that night, much to the
astonishment of the night watchman, who
had never heard her speak at all before.
Anyway, she was not the kind to complain,
if she ever thought there was cause, she
never said so, but made the best of every-
thing. Still she did hope the pretty Ameri-
can would come and see them. And really
Elsie intended to—she knew how it would
please the old lady to show off the numerous

[Column 3]
little grandchildren, but somehow she never
found time, their worlds were so far apart.
	One morning, when casually glancing
through the death notices of the morning
paper she came across a name which arrested
her attention. “Yes, surely that is she, for
besides the odd name, it says, native of
Berne, Switzerland. Poor Tanta Rora—so
that is the end, and I never went to see you
nor brought you here, though goodness
knows I intended to, for you were always
sweet to me.” Alas, what use are vain re-
grets! Why do we mortals so often lay
aside our true and good intentions and pick
up the false gods that surround our daily
life? However she meant to make amends
now as far as possible, and calling for her
carriage to be got ready, she ran to the tele-
phone and ordered a spray of flowers to be
ready for her when she called, then quickly
dressed and was on her way, for the paper
had said the funeral would be that morn-
ing. Having left her carriage at the corner
Elsie reached the little home just as the fam-
ily and friends in solemn array were march-
ing to the little church near by where the
services were to be conducted. Fritz she
would scarcely have known, now a short,
stout man with lines of care and hard work
on his face, and leaning on his arm was the
ever faithful, weeping. Meta, dressed in
full mourning, long black veil and all. Elsie
followed the procession into the church,
where had assembled a quaint company. It
was almost like being in Berne again, for
there were the friends of the “Matte” who
had gathered here, besides a few neighbors
and Churchmen. Elsie sent her flowers up,
then sat near the rear of the building, her
lovely self the one odd piece in that strange
setting. She soon adapted herself to her
surroundings, however, and began to pick
out familiar faces among the mourners.
Surely there were other groups of the Berne
fountains, Tanta Rora was not the only one
lured by tales of this wonderland! The
music was good, a German choir singing
German hymns, and the minister who
knew Tanta Rora well, knew her as Elsie
knew her—not the “wash woman,” nor the
“scrub lady,” but her worth, her thrift, her
kind deeds. He told of many kindnesses
to his parish, outside of what she had been
to her own, and then related how she had
saved enough means to pay for this beauti-
ful funeral.
	Poor Tanta Rora, did you slave day after
day, night after night to save enough for a fine
burial? Why could you not have had some of
these flowers, music, carriages, and fine
things in life, I wonder if you will ever know
how really fine they were? If so, no donbt
your soul is satisfied.
			ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Ida Husted Harper, will edit Progress,
beginning with the January number. In
the meantime send your suffrage items and
your subscriptions to Warren, O.
	The headquarters of the National Ameri-
can Woman Suffrage Association has been
moved from Warren, O., to New York. The
offices are located on the 17th floor of a
handsome new office building at 505 Fifth
Ave. Rev. Anna H. Shaw and Prof. Frances
Squire Potter, President and Corresponding
Secretary are the officers in charge. The
Press Department is under the personal di-
rection of Mrs. Ida Husted Harper, bio-
grapher of Susan B. Anthony, assisted by
Elizabeth J. Hauser, of Ohio.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		ALPINE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Alpine stake was held in the large
new meetinghouse Pleasant Grove on Friday,
April 30, 1909. President Rebecca Standring
presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises Presi-
dent Standring greeted the sisters, spoke of
the late General Conference in Salt Lake
City and the remarks of President Joseph
F. Smith, the spirit of which was “Peace, be
still.” We have nothing to fear if we do
our duty. Which was also beautifully por-
trayed in our Stake Conference held a week
ago. Let us be faithful and do our duty and
all will be well with us. Let us not think
that when we pass from here that our work
will be done, for we shall find that we will
still be busy. This existence is only a school
of preparation. Let us show that our hearts
are in the work.
	Reading by Emma J. T: Roberts on
“Compensation, or the reward of action.”
	Stake President Stephen L. Chipman,
thought there was a very good representa-
tion of the stake this morning. We know
what the sisters are doing, and the good
which they accomplish.
	Sister Standring has the faculty of having
the sisters work in union, and they take
pleasure in their labors, keeping busy and
honor their calling. We should be a light
to the world. People who have lived among
us say they never saw a more industrious
people. Our mission is to save all who will
be saved. You sisters are accomplishing
much good.
	Sister Emily C. Bullock felt grateful to
the Lord that she was able to be here and
partake of the spirit of this meeting. Could
see a great improvement in the people for
the sisters are doing a good work in the
wards. Was thankful for her standing in the
Church and desired to spend the remainder
of her days in usefulness among the people.
	Singing. Benediction by Counselor Har-
riet Jacobs.
	Afternoon Session: Conference 2 p. m.
Counselor Annie C. Hindley in charge.
	After the devotional exercises.
	Duet, “Beyond the Shadows” by Sisters
Blanch Greenwood and Ellen Smith.
	Sister Sina Chipman gave a talk on the
importance of instilling faith into our chil-
dren. The greatest need is religious train-
ing in the home.
	Sister Ellen D. Clarke gave a short sketch
of the life of Sister Emma S. Featherstone,
showing her devotion to the work of the
Lord, and her diligence in Relief Society
work.
	Brother A. J. Evans of the Stake Presi-
dency. When we meet in such assemblies
as this, we enjoy the spirit and feeling of
each other and our Father in Heaven, and
can apply it to our lives. Spoke along the
line of prohibition and habits in the home
in regard to the word of wisdom. Alpine
stake stands almost at the head of the list
alphabetically. Let us strive to have it at
the top in living up to the word of God.
	Brother James H. Clarke of the Stake Pre-
sidency said when you heard the truth in
your native land, you compared it with the
scripture and found it correct. It is just as
true today. We cannot shirk the responsi-
bility of it, and the Lord will prepare us for
it if we do our part and serve Him faithfully.
The Latter-day Saints should be the first to
abolish the evil of intemperance, and use
our influence in the suppression of the liquor

[Column 2]
traffic. Let us place the seal of dishonor on
it and not give license to such places. Spoke
of the erection of the Stake Tabernacle and
advised the sisters to prepare to leave a
legacy after they are gone beyond so that
children and others may see our good works.
	Stake President Stephen L. Chipman en-
dorsed the remarks of the brethren. Let
us be interested in building our Stake Taber-
nacle. It will be an honor to us in days to
come and we will be thankful that we have
helped to build and pay for it, if it is ever so
small. May God bless the efforts of the sis-
ters of Alpine stake.
	Counselor Annie C. Hindley felt that we
had had a feast of fat things and prayed the
Lord’s choicest blessings upon us as mothers
and advised us to help in the building of the
Tabernacle Compared the gospel and the
life to come to traveling in an Ocean Steamer.
We can have first, second or third class pas-
sage, just as we wish, by the deeds of this
life. Thanked the sisters of Pleasant Grove
for the nice lunch they had served, and com-
mended the move for it makes the work of
the sisters less and they have more time to
attend meeting and devote to other duties.
	Meeting closed by singing. Prayer by Pre-
sident Rebecca Standring.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
			EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
							Secretary.


[Column 1]
HENRY BROWNE BLACKWELL.
	Two very celebrated great men, H. B.
Blackwell and W. L. Garrison, have died
quite recently that will be greatly missed
by the suffrage women of the country, be-
cause of their advocacy of equal rights and
the strength of helpfulness to the cause of
humanity along many lines of uplifting.
They were contemporary with some of the
very greatest men that New England has
produced, and almost the last of those we
are wont to call “the old school.” They
were among the promoters of anti-slavery
and other notable reforms. Of this class
too were Whittier and Holmes, Wendell
Phillips, Theodore Parker, Thomas Went-
worth Higginson and George Wm. Curtis,
the Alcotts, Edward Everett Hale, and many
illustrous women of the same sterling inte-
grity, who were associated in the work, Lu-
cretia Mott, Lucy Stone, Mary A. Livermore,
Harriet Beecher Stowe, Elizabeth Cady Stan-
ton, Frances E. Willard and Susan B. An-
thony; now only Julia Ward Howe and Car-
oline M. Severance remain of that bright
galaxy of men and women of that early pe-
riod—yet we must not pass over the two
sisters and the sister in law of Henry Browne
Blackwell each of them we might say equal-
ly celebrated, Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell now
aged 87, Dr. Emily Blackwell, aged 83, and
Rev. Antoinette Browne Blackwell, names
familiar to all the progressive women of our
time, and well known in the annals of his-
tory of the forward movements of the nine-
teenth and twentieth centuries.
	The tributes paid to the life and work of
these great men would fill volumes, yet they
suffered persecution because of espousing a

[Column 2]
then unpopular cause, that has since been
characterized as a righteous and noble
undertaking. So goes the world, John Green-
leaf Whittier wrote of the late Mr. Blackwell
the following verse which is truly expressive
of his loyalty to woman kind.

	“Never woman in her suffering saw
		A helper tender, true and brave as he,
	Lifting her burden of unrighteous law
		He shames the boast of ancient chivalry.”

	The beautiful tributes paid to Mr. Black-
well by his devoted and widely beloved
daughter Alice Stone Blackwell are most
tender and touching, expressing as they do
the purest sentiments of love and trust. At
the close of her In Memoriam she gives these
grand and telling words of Garibaldi to
Josephine E. Butler. “Remember that,
though we pass away, and the leaders of a
cause fall one by one, principles never die;
they are eternal, world-wide and unchange-
able.”
	Mr. Blackwell was at the Suffrage Con-
vention in Seattle in July of this year climb-
ing mountains and taking part in all the
strenuous work of the campaign for suffrage.
He was wonderfully vigorous to the very
last, only the Sunday before his illness he
walked three miles over rough hills and along
the cliffs on the south shore of Martha’s
Vineyard in the early morning, and while
he was ill in bed he referred to that trip to
the Vineyard and how he had enjoyed it.
Mr. Blackwell strongly disapproved of show
and expense at funerals and repeatedly im-
pressed upon his daughter (his only child)
“that when he passed away he wished to
have only a simple pine box.” Henry
Browne Blackwell was born May 4, 1825,
died Sept. 7, 1909. Doubtless most of our
readers know he was the husband of Lucy
Stone of wide-world fame. At the time of
the courtship of this illustrious couple Lucy
Stone “was the best known advocate of
woman’s rights in the country, and a set of
verses had not long before appeared in the
Boston papers describing the fervent grati-
tude that awaited the valiant man who
should marry her and by matrimony (it was
assumed) reduce her to silence.”

	A name like Curtiss shall be his,
		On Fame’s loud trumpet blown,
	Who with a wedding kiss shuts up
		The mouth of Lucy Stone.

	Perhaps this little verse may give some of
our young people an idea of how the early
advocates of woman’s rights were ridiculed
and not only that but persecuted.
	The writer recalls many pleasant inter-
views with this genial chivalrous gentleman,
he had known a number of our people in
the early days of the Church in Ohio and
had some business transactions with them
of which he spoke favorably, remembering
their business capacity of which he spoke in
terms of praise, mentioning particularly
Hyrum Kimball and Joseph L. Heywood.
Mr. Blackwell was a man of tremendous
power in speaking and in writing.
	(Unfinished article by the Editor)


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US


Vol 38 –– 5, 1, 2, 3, 6,
								WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 38.					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER, 1909.						No. 5.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
A Reminiscence.........................S. E. Russell	33
Resume Sixth Triennial Transactions.............	33
Relief Society Stake Reports: Alpine.............	34
	Ogden.....................................................	38
	Nebo.......................................................	39
Autobiography......................Nancy M. Tracy	39
Mrs. Adeline F. Fitz, President-General 
	Daughters of the Revolution...................	37
Advance Notice..............................................	38
Hentry Browne Blackwell.................E. B. W.	35
D. R. Toasts....................................................	35
In Memoriam..................................................	38
Our Founder-General......................................	38
Notes and News..............................................	40
Editorial:—President Smith’s Birthday..........	36
	Thanksgiving..........................................	36
	Dr. Talmage’s New Book.......................	36
	President-General’s Visit........................	36
	Editorial Notes........................................	37
Poetry:—The Battle Hymn of the Mothers....	33


THE BATTLE HYMN OF THE MOTHERS.
	BY BERTIE KATE SHIPLEY.
Our eyes shall see the glory of “the coming of the
	Lord,”
When woman is exalted and to her place re-
	stored,
And her hand shall cast the ballot that is strong-
	er than the sword.
While the hosts are marching on.

				Chorus.
		Glory! Glory! Hallelujah!
		Glory! Glory! Hallelujah!
		Glory! Glory! Hallelujah!
		The mothers are marching on.

There’s a mighty host advancing with a fluttering
	of wings,
Led by the fire-born spirit that through all dark-
	ness sings,
And the sound of myriad voices through the
	heavenly arches rings,
While the hosts are marching on.

To this earthly throne of justice, with a slow and
	steady beat,
Move the mothers of all ages, with their worn and
	weary feet;
They are “sounding forth the trumpet that shall
	never sound retreat,”
While the hosts are marching on.

The heralds swift are coming with the message
	from all lands
That laws shall now be measured in the scale of
	mother hands,
Hear, oh, hear, ye people! Welcome Justice as
	she stands,
Where the hosts are marching on.

When the father and the mother march equal in
	the right,
And the little children follow in the pathway of
	this light,
Then Peace shall wave her banner and banish all
	the night,
As God shall lead them on.

Sing, oh, sing, ye people! Shout Hosanna with
	the throng!
Let the voices of the nation bear the glorious
	notes along,
And sound the joyful measures of the mothers’
	battle song,
While the hosts are marching on!

Woman’s Journal, Mass.


No faith is to be given to the stories about
suffragettes biting and scratching police-
men. They are malicious fabrications.
When American audiences come face to
face with Mrs. Pankhurst, they will see
whether she is a woman to do or to encour-
age such things.—Ex.


[Column 1]
		A REMINISCENCE.
	Colonia Chuichupa, Nov. 3, 1909.
Mrs. E. B. Wells:
	DEAR SISTER:—In looking over the years
of our lives we find our memory pictures
among our most precious treasures, sunny
pictures, rainbow tinted, in the realms of
childhood and youth. pictures shadowy with
pain and anguish, tear-stained and pitiful,
yet, oh, how we cling to them through the
days and years that come and go.
	To my stories of such pictures, many
more were added during our visit of the last
six months to kindred and friends in Utah,
and in visiting and passing to and fro in old
familiar places, how many thoughts come
to me, as a flock of sweet singing birds, and
scenes long hidden in the midst of years
appear fresh and bright before me, I need
not tell to you who know so well, what
sacred memories dwell and cling around our
Temple block, and the old walls that shield
it from curious, prying eyes. I am not a
curio hunter, but I brought a piece of the
old time wall home with me to Mexico, for
it is the preface of a book of memory to
me. One day as I stood on the southeast
corner looking at the beautiful new Deseret
News Building, I rememhered one night I
stood there long ago, and watched the old
time Council House fall beneath merciless
flames that left but a smoking pile of ruins,
and then the art gallery of Brother Charles
Savage a victim, too, of the same fierce
element. I can see him walking about amid
the ruins as he did that morning looking
upon the fruits of years of anxious care and
toil swept away in an hour, yet he was calm
and still had a smile and kindly word for
the friends who gathered there that day.
It was a favorite place of mine, for I loved
to look at the pictures and books there.
Once I remember, as I stood before a beau-
tiful picture, choking back the tears it
called forth, he came and said, “Why look
so long upon this sad picture? Here is a
beautiful, more cheery one, look at it.” I
have always remembered the lesson given
in those few words, and how the sunshine
of his great heart was so freely shared with
all who came within its reach. And still as
I stood there, the stately Templeton faded
away and I saw the plain, white home of
Brother Wells, the “Daniel” of the Latter-
days, and I remember one day when he was
weighed in the balance and not fonnd want-
ing. And again, as I looked upon the 
monument of our Brigham Young, with
those grand representatives of pioneer days
grouped around him, they became living
beings to me. Oh, the pictures are many
that hang around that monument. I seem
to hear his voice, as I heard it first in the
old adobe tabernacle, the bowery, and later
the grand new tabernale, still the admira-
tion and wonder of all who see it. Yes, I
seem to hear again his words of encourage-
ment, of counsel and warning, and words of
mighty faith in the great work of God in
these latter-days, and his testimony of the
divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph
Smith; and I saw him at rest from his lab-
ors that day when all who knew him

[Column 2]
mourned the loss of a true and faithful
friend and leader. One visit to Ensign with
a company of Temple workers, the words of
inspiration spoken then, with a most pleas-
ant social gathering at the home of a sister
on our return, is something to linger long in
the memory of that little party. Then
again, the reunions of the remaining mem-
bers of the Fifteenth Ward choir, and with
their children, renewing ties of love and
friendship of the spring and summer seasons
of life, to feel again the warm haud clasp
after years of separation was a joy unspeak-
able to me. It was hard for me to go to the
last gathering at Saltair, for I knew it would
be our last meeting. for years, if ever again
in life; but there were fond remembrances of
the past around the table spread with all good
things, and looking out on the beautiful
lake. We were young again, and time’s
finger marks were all swept away. Again we
watched the sun sinking in the waters,
leaving a golden glow upon the tiny wave-
lets, and here I feel to pray heaven’s choic-
est blessings rest upon those who helped to
make our visit so pleasant for us. Of our
days in the Temple I may not write, they
are too sacred to me. When sometimes the
veil of mortality seemed drawn away, and we
could feel the presence of our loved one on
the other side. Again, may God’s blessings
rest upon the faithful workers there, and may
the sweet spirit of peace and love found
within its walls never depart from us.
	Now dear old City Creek claims a re-
membrance, for it sang to me the “Old
Songs” of happy boys and girls, and I
laughed this summer when I saw it
burst the bonds set by man, rushing
onward to the great lake, for it seemed
to me a type of the great Fountain
of Truth flowing on to the shores of eternity,
while the puny arm of man is raised in vain
to stay its progress.
	Do I weary you, dear friend, with my
wandering thoughts? For fear of doing so,
I will close with a prayer for our beautiful
city and her speedy deliverance from all
that would mar or dim her glory.
	As ever, your friend and sister,
						S. E RUSSELL.


RESUME SIXTH TRIENNIAL TRANSAC-
			TIONS.
	The Sixth Triennial session of the Nation-
al Council of Women of the United States
was held in Seattle, Washington, July 14-16,
1909, with Mrs. Mary Wood Swift, Presi-
dent, presiding. In the absence of both
secretaries, Mrs. Flo Jamison Miller was ap-
pointed to act as Recording Secretary dur-
ing the session. The first meeting was held
in the Auditorium of the A. Y. P. Exposi-
tion and was an executive session for mem-
bers only. Minutes of the Union City Exec-
utive were read and discussed. Mrs. Stev-
ens read report of committee on revision of
constitution, but after some discussion the
report was referred to same committee for
further revision, was to be referred to execu-
tive organizations and complete report made
at some subsequent meeting The
names of Mrs Emmeline B. Wells and Mrs,


[Column 1]
Susa Young Gates were approved as Quin-
quennial Patrons, explanation made that a
Quinquennial Patron was from one Quin-
quennial term to another, and an Inter-
national Patron was for life, but in
both cases names must be approved
by the Council to which the appli-
cants belonged. The name of Rev. Anna
H. Shaw was presented for International
Patron by Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery in be-
half of the National Woman’s Suffrage
Association, and was unanimously approved.
The election of officers resulted in the fol-
lowing: President, Mrs. Lillian M. Hollister;
Vice-Pres., Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, Cor.
Sec., Mrs. Flo. Jamison Miller, Rec. Sec’y,
Mrs. Emma E. Bower M. D.; Treasurer, Mrs.
M. Josie Nelson. Mrs. Sewall reported the
transactions of the Quinquennial period
while she was International President, were
ready for distribution and could be per-
chased for seventy-five cents a volnme, or
one dollar and fifty cents for both, and
urged all to send in their names to her. The
reports of various committees were read and
approved in Executive Session. Report on
Entertainment of Foreign Delegates read,
and a vote of thanks given the committee
for their work. Report of Treasurer being
printed was referred to auditing committee,
who after examination of accounts reported
accounts found correct and report was ac-
cepted. Report of Press, Local Council,
Catechism Education read and recommend-
ation of the chairman on Education made in
Union City, was reaffirmed. Committee on
Charities and Philanthrophy recommended a
delegate to national Conference of Charities
be again appointed, also that a special
committee be appointed to investigate the
matter of “Old Age Pensions,” both of
which were adopted. Report of meeting of
International Council made by Mrs. Barrett,
Proxy for the President, and was accepted
with much applause.
	Resolutions Committee reaffirmed the
resolutions adopted at last executive meet-
ing, thanks to all hosts and hostesses all of
which were adopted at this meeting with
the additional proviso that the thanks of
the Council for the efforts and kindness
shown by Mrs. Pitt Trimble and Mrs. Mar-
ion Baxter should be engrossed. Bill of
one hundred dollars for printing the pro-
grams was allowed. All unfinished busi-
ness referred to incoming officers, after vot-
ing the expenses of the President and
treasurer should be paid.
	The public meetings were held the first
day in the Exposition Auditorium and was
in the nature of a reception to the foreign
delegates. Welcome was extended by the
Consuls of Norway, France, Germany, Italy,
and England, and responses were given by
Mrs. May Wright Sewall, Hon. Pres. Inter-
national Council, Mrs. Emma S. Hampton,
U. S. Council, representatives from the dif-
ferent Councils. Sweet music was rendered
by beautiful singers, and the spirit of In-
ternationalism was felt by all. On Wed-
nesday, luncheon was served to the Council
and foreign friends by the Federated
Woman’s Clubs. The same day a six
o’clock dinner was given by the Exposition
officers where again good cheer and good
will prevailed. A most delightful reception
was tendered the Council on Thursday
afternoon by Mrs. J. F. Leary in honor of
her guest, our Honorary International and
National President, Mrs. Sewall. This was
greatly appreciated, and the beautiful home
and gracious hospitality will be long remem-
bered. The Federated Clubs, and Chamber

[Column 2]
of Commerce of Tacoma extended an invita-
tion to the Council to visit their city and be
their guests. The invitation was accepted
and a luncheon, drive and most cordial wel-
come was received. The Portland Press
Club extended an invitation to a reception
in the Oregon Building, but from lack of
time could not be accepted. The public
meetings were well attended, reports on or-
ganizations and work accomplished well re-
ceived. The warm hospitality shown the coun-
cil by the Ladies of the Maccabees of the
World and the Women of Woodcraft, in
their bounteous luncheons, entertaining
toasts and gracious attentions made the
courtesy more than pleasant. Seattle was
generous, hospitable and gracious, and the
Council of Women of the U. S. will long
remember its Sixth Triennial.—Com.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		ALPINE STAKE.
	The quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Alpine Stake was held at Lehi,
July 28, 1909. Meeting commenced at 10
a. m., President Rebecca Standring presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing, “Come,
come, ye Saints.” Peayer by Brother Wil-
liam Southwick. Singing,
	President Standring greeted the sisters
and announced that we had with us Sis-
ters Susan Grant and Hattie B. Harker of
the General Board. Was pleased to re-
port the Alpine Stake as doing well. Our
sisters are faithful and energetic in all their
work. “It is useless for me to speak of
our Stake Board, they are very dear to me,
every one of them. We have never had
any trouble since the stake was organized.
The spirit of God is here, and I pray that
His blessings may rest upon all who take
part here today.
	Four of the wards were reported by their
respective presidents, all united and willing
to do whatever they are called upon to do.
United, and have a good attendance at
their meetings and have the blessing of God.
	Stake Counselor Annie C. Hindley felt to
say a word in regard to Sister Standring,
that she is well qualified to teach and coun-
sel her sisters now as ever she was since the
came here in early days and has grown with
the work. Since this stake was organized
she has been a mother to this society, and
has the love and confidence of all the sisters.
The love and union of our sisters in the
Board is equal to that of David and Jona-
than. We have a noble set of women in
the presidents of our wards, and we as a
Stake Board love and appreciate them, for
they respond to every call that is made upon
them. Felt to encourage the counselors to
be always ready to assist the presidents in
any work required of them. Our sisters
are hard working women, they have much to
do, but we learn by doing. Felt to com-
mend the labors of our presidents, it rests
upon them to work out the lessons, and we
should be prepared to help all we can.
	Singing by the Relief Society choir,
“Beautiful Isle of Somewhere.”
	Sister Susan Grant was always pleased to
meet with the sisters, spoke of her long ac-
quaintance with Sister Standring. Told of
the severe sickness of her son, and of his
being healed through faith and prayers, and
thonght that the faith and prayers of the
sisters had much to do with his healing.
She had been President of the Stake where
she liyed for 25 years. Loved to meet with
the sisters and rejoiced in the interest the

[Column 2]
brethren take in the Relief Society. This
is a very great and important work that we
are engaged in, but if we trust in the Lord,
and do our duty we shall be able to over-
come by faith and prayer.
	Sister Harker said, “Many of you have
made sacrifices to come here today, and I
realize that I am not the one you expected
to see, but I came because I was sent, and
am in sympathy with the Society. We are
sent here with a purpose, to fulfill a mis-
sion to multiply and to bring spirits into the
world. The subject of raising children has
been avoided by the majority of women,
but if this subject had been taught when I
was raising my children, I believe that I
could have done much better. Every Relief
Society president should do all she can to
bring young mothers into this Society.
Fathers are called away from home a great
part of the time, but a true mother will
have the love and confidence of her child-
ren, her sons as well as her daughters. The
children should think that there is no place
like home, where mother is. We not only
desire our own children to be bright and
shining lights, but we can do much for our
neighbors.” Spoke of the two thonsand
young men of the Nephites, taught by their
mothers who overcame the great army of the
Lamanites. We cannot plant faith in the
hearts of our children, unless we have the
same faith in our own hearts.
	Meeting adjourned, after singing, and
benediction by Sister Sina Chipman.
	A nice lunch was served during the
recess.
	Afternoon session commenced at one p.
m. by singing, “Count your blessings.”
Prayer by Sister Emma Featherstone. Sing-
ing, “Scatter seeds of kindness.”
	Sister Sina Chipman of the Stake Board,
spoke of the duty of teachers. Wc are
proud of our sisters of the Relief Society,
What a power for good we can be when we
are united. What a great amount of good
the teachers can do if they go before our
Father in humility and ask for His aid and
assistance. Teachers should be well versed
in the principles of the Gospel, There are
many souls hungering, not for bread, but
for sympathy, for words of love and kind-
ness, and our teachers can give these. Teach
those you visit the importance of training
the children in the principles of the Gospel.
Let them feel that your visit is a joy and a
comfort to them, cheer up the sick and dis-
tressed. The teachers are a band of earnest
workers, and I pray the Lord to bless them,
and to bless us all, that we may do better
in the future than we have done in the past.
	Sister H. A. Harker said: “When I look
over this gathering I need not ask if the
sisters of Alpine Stake are interested in
Relief Society work. Your presence shows
it. Many are hungering after the seeds of
kindness, and the teachers can give this.
The sisters can pour out their troubles to
each other, but we should be very careful
and hold that confidence sacred, and never
let one word drop in the other houses that
we visit, but guard it as a secret. We de-
sire to become intelligent beings, we have
been placed upon the earth for this pur-
pose. We should not only attend our
meetings, but it is our duty to help with the
program, and be prepared to discuss the
subject in hand. Mothers must be progres-
sive. Plan our work and do it systematic-
ally, then we will have time to study and
attend to our duties. There is no excuse
for ignorance, but we progress not
so much by what we hear as by what we do.


Many through the visits of the teachers
have been led to see the condition they
were in, and turn and renew their dili-
gence in the Church. Let us do unto
others by being charitable to those who may
have taken the wrong course and try and
lead them back to the straight path.
	Singing, “Jesus, lover of my soul.” by the
Relief Society choir.
	Sister Harker spoke a few words on the
Nurse classes, advising the sisters who can
to take advantage of the offer made by Dr.
Roberts, so the people may have an oppor-
tunity of securing good nurses when in need
of them.
	Sister Susan Grant congratulated Alpine
Stake on such a good attendance. Re-
membered President Bathsheba W. Smith
and Sister Wells to the sisters, and urged
them to subscribe for the Exponent, that
was the organ of the Society. “I feel happy 
in being here, I have enjoyed these meet-
ings immensely. In blessing others you
are blessing yourselves. I was first a teacher
in the Relief Society. We had to go a
mile and a half to every meeting in early
days, and a long distance to walk to visit
our district. Teachers should be the best
women in the Society, and be able to talk on
any principle of the Gospel. A teacher’s
office is very important. Members, too, are
important, and it is our duty to mind that
we are present to answer to roll call. I was
acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith.
I was twelve years old when he died, and
can remember him and how he looked. The
pictures we see of him do not do him jus-
tice. He was a much finer looking man
than they show him. He was full of love
and kindness to the people. He was hunted
all his life, and his enemies thought when
they took his life that that would end Mor-
monism, but that was not the plan of God.
I know that each of our Prophets and Presi-
dents have been and are men of God, and
in the right place. The Church is beauti-
fully organized, and we must honor those
who are over us. We all have some faults
let us overlook them in others, and love and
sustain each other.”
	Brother A. J. Evans of the Stake Presi-
dency, rejoiced in the testimony of Sister
Grant, “for I honor the Pioneers, not only of
Utah, but of the Latter-day work. Spoke
on charity,” and quoted from the Book of
Mormon. Charity is the pure love of
Christ, let us think of this. You sisters
have your part to perform in the drama of
life. May the Lord bless sister Standring
in her high position, and all of you, that
you may be exalted in His kingdom. And 
I bless you in behalf of my brethren in the
name of Jesus.”
	President Standring also blessad the sis-
ters in the name of Jesus.
	Singing. Benediction by Sister Clark.
Conference adjourned for three months.
			E. J. T. ROBERTS, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HENRY BROWNE BLACKWELL.
		(Continued from page 32.)
	He was instrumental financially in founding
the Woman’s Journal, Boston, Mass., in 1870,
and was nearly 40 years on the editorial
staff; it has been one of the most efficient
aids in woman’s work ever since its first
issue and is far the best woman’s news
paper in America. His last editorial ap-
pears in the issue of Sept. 11, in which ap-
pears the notice of his death. The subject
deals with the question of different methods


of work for suffrage in England and Ameri-
ca. Mr. Blackwell was always an old-line
Republican in principle, and had voted for
every Republican president. It is impos-
sible to even barely mention the many
enterprises he had engineered and the cour-
age and tenacity with which he persevered
under great difficulties. Mr. Blackwell was
a member of the old Literary club of Cin-
cinnati to which Rutherford B Hayes and
Ainsworth R. Spafford late Librarian of
Congress and other men afterward promi-
nent belonged, and was one of a group of
young men who were instrumental in bring-
ing Ralph Waldo Emerson and Theodore
Parker out to the West to lecture.
	The death of Wm. Lloyd Garrison fol-
lowed only five days after that of his life
long friend Mr. Blackwell, Sept. 12, 1909,
but was not so unexpected as he had been
failing for some months. Like his father
his home was always open to the field
agents and lecturers on anti-slavery, woman
suffrage and kindred reform movements, a
universal and all around reformer. He de-
manded justice and equal rights for all regard-
less of sex, complexion or nationality. He
might easy be termed a radical, supported
Home Rule in Ireland, was active in the
Anti-Imperial League, denounced the war
with Spain and conquest of the Philipines.
Mr. Garrison worked earnestly for the Arme-
nians and Moors. The single tax movement
had his most hearty sympathy and support.
He had a finished literary style in all his
works, an omniverous reader of books and of
current periodical literature, fond of poetry,
sometimes indulged in writing verses as a
sort of pastime.
	It is impossible to give an idea of this
remarkable man in a few words, but it is
said of him “That he never set his hand to
a bad cause and never turned his back on a
good one.” He was modest unassuming,
and sociable and had a world-wide circle of
friends in his own country and across the
sea. It is said he was intensely sympathe-
tic and generous to the needy, and most un-
selfish in all the relations of life.
	In accordance with his request no funeral
services were held and the simplest possible
casket contained his remains. He leaves a
wife (the niece of Lucretia Mott), five chil-
dren and six grandchildren.
	A memorial meeting will be held in his
honor at which representatives of the
reformatory movements in which he was an
active worker will participate.	E. B. W.


D. R. TOASTS.
	Delivered at the Daughters of the Revo-
lution Banquet given at the Lion House,
12th November, in honor of Mrs. Fitz, Presi-
dent-General of the National D. R. Society.
	The Pioneer Women of Utah came of a
fine, patriotic line of ancestry, many of their
forefathers, their grandparents were of the
old stanch colonial patriots who came to
America as early as 1830, and a few even at
a period prior to that. Their progeniters
held positions of trust in church and state,
were in the Revolution as officers and sol-
diers,and fought at Lexington, Bunker Hill,
Cowpens, Stillwater, Bennington, Quebec,
Saratoga; were with Washington at Valley
Forge the memorable winter of 1777 and
1778, in fact, all through the Revolution
until the surrender of Cornwallis at York
Town. Our Pioneer Women in connection
wtth the men of 47-8 suffered the privation,
want, almost starvation incident to their


long three months’ march across the deso-
late untraversed plains west of the Mississ-
ippi to the Valley of the Great Salt Lake.
They helped to lay the first connecting link
between the Great East and Far West,
which made travel safe and emigration sure.
They carded, spun and wove the cloth that
protected and clothed their families, they
cooked, sewed, washed and made their
homes comfortable and always gave a cord-
ial welcome to the stranger within our gates.
They, in some instances helped plant and
harvest the crops, and although many of
them had been well educated and tenderly
cared for all their former lives, in times of
extreme danger on the frontier they guarded
their homes and babies from the attacks of
marauding Indians, while husbands and
sons were in other parts, providing food or
in the discharge of duties.
	Like our Colonial Dames, our Revolution
Grandmothers, they gave their strong sup-
port, iheir heart’s love, hope, faith, fidelity
and patriotism in colonization work, in
helping establish the great commonwealth
in this western wild of America.
	God bless their memories, and may we,
their daughters and granddaughters, never
do ought that will desecrate, mar or cast a
shadow upon the character of our true, hon-
orable, heroic mothers, the Pioneer Women
of Utah.
		JULIA P. M. FARNSWORTH.
					U. S. S. Historian.


Toast given at the Lion House, Nov. 12,
1909, by Mrs. Mary E. R. Webber:
Madam Regent, President-General and
	Daughters:
	It is my happy previlege this evening on
behalf of the Daughters of the Revolution of
the State of Utah to speak of our Society.
Since the birth of the General Society, some
sixteen years ago, it has grown and multi-
plied and spread over the full extent of this
great American continent, and has become
a great force in the land. It has promoted
the spirit of patriotism in every loyal heart,
—not only in the parents, but in the child-
ren. It has filled them with a spirit of loy-
alty to our country that has no equal in
any other land on earth. It has bound to-
gether the hearts of every true American
citizen as with bands of steel. The General
Society stands for and represents true pat-
riotism, for is not every member a lineal
descendant of a patriot, one who stood for
liberty, or death—and the aim of the Society
is to in some way commemorate their brave
acts by placing monuments and tablets on
the sacred spots where heroes fought and
died. This, and to perpetuate in the hearts
of the people America’s independence is its
life work; and while we, the Daughters of
fair Utah, have no hallowed ground to tread,
or sacred spots to mark, we give our aid,
our love and our loyalty to the General
Society; may it forever remain true to the
cause for which it was organized; and may
its power in the land for good continue to
increase until every true American woman
will say, as Webster said at the laying of
the cornerstone at Bunker Hill mouument:
“I was born an American; I shall live an
American; I shall die an American.”


Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gillman has brought
out the first issue of her bright new maga-
zine, the Forerunner. It is full of original
and suggestive matter, and all of it is writ-
ten by herself, even the advertisements.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop's
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matt.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	-	NOVEMBER, 1909.


PRESIDENT SMITH’S BIRTHDAY.
	The birthday anniversary of President
Joseph F. Smith, which occurred on Nov.
13, 1909, was fittingly celebrated by a family
gathering including beside his immediate
family, his elder brother John Smith, the
Patriarch, and his sister Martha Harris of
Provo, also his Counselors President John
R. Winder and wife, and President Anthon
H. Lund and wife, and general President
of the Refief Society, his Aunt, Bathsheba
W. Smith, the most honored woman in the
Church. The party was given at the Bee
Hive House, the President’s residence, and
the banquet was served in the famous Lion
House, with due ceremony befitting such a
happy occasion. Afterwards the younger
children made merry in dancing, games and
other childish pastimes.
	Letters and messages of congratulation
also many beautiful gifts were received,
testifying to the high honor in which he is
held by his friends and the people generally.
	The EXPONENT joins with his other near
and dear friends in offering sincere congrat-
ulations, and desiring for him many happy
returns of the day, without a shadow of
change in his appearance, and that the pros-
perity which he so richly deserves may be
showered upon him in abundance, and that
he may ever enjoy the loyalty and fidelity of
the people over whom he has been called
and chosen to preside. May our Father in
heaven protect him from his foes and en-
circle him in the arms of his tender, loving
care, that he may be a light to the world
that will ever shine pure and bright.


THANKSGIVING.
	In the midst of all that is transpiring in
the way of activities and achievements in
the world it is an appropriate time for grati-
tude and thanksgiving to our Father in
heaven, who is over all, and who is in and
through and above all, and can overrule all
things for the best interests of His great
latter-day work.
	It is gond that a day has been designated
and set apart for the purpose of thanksgiv-
ing to God, otherwise the hurrying, rushing,
busy people might altogether forget the duty
and obligation they owe to Him, who is the
source and fountain of all that is excellent
and truly progressive.
	It has come to be a time-honored custom,
and it is particularly fitting that it should
come just after the rich harvests of the earth


have been gathered in; and before the winter
holidays, that are now in this period of time,
so replete with feasting, festivity and hilari-
ty.
	There are so many wonderful events and
changes taking place all over the world, that
it is difficult to keep pace with the times in
which we are living; and the great catastro-
phies and calamities of almost daily occur-
rence give us warning that it is the time of the
fulfillment of the prophecies concerning the
last days; and that the fulness of times
which has been ushered in with the advent
of the gospel revealed from heaven through
the Prophet Joseph Smith is now upon the
people of this day and generation.
	The Latter-day Saints have great reason
for thanksgiving because of their almost un-
bounded temporal prosperity and the im-
provement in their conditions both at home
and abroad.
	The spread of light and truth, and know-
ledge of facts concerning the Latter-day
Saints is marvelous, and the Elders who
are in the mission field are doing a far greater
work than ever before.
	The various quorums of the priesthood
are coming to a higher appreciation of the
magnitude, scope, and strength of the order
and callings and a better understanding of
the relation the priesrhood bears to the
world of mankind.
	Various auxiliary organizations are also
generally more making greater improvement
and, taken all in all, we as a people are
trying to make “our calling and election
sure.”


DR. TALMAGE’S NEW BOOK.
	A new book by Prof. James E. Talmage
has just been published by the Deseret News
entitled “The Great Apostasy” “Considered
in the Light of Secular History.” It is a
book containing valuable information and
will be of great interest to students of re-
ligious history and to those who reason on
Scripture subjects, and in fact to both men
and women who desire to comprehend relig-
ious conditions as they have existed in the
past, without reading so many books, that
take more time than people of the present
day can afford, therefore the work will be
useful and acceptable in giving correct know-
ledge that can be relied upon by those whe
teach and instruct others, and who must of
necessity deal specifically with facts that can
not be controverted, but will stand the sever-
est critisism as to accuracy.
	Elders who preach the gospel at home or
abroad will be benefitted and instructed by
reading and digestiug this work; the book is
unique in style and fills a place in our Church
literature that no other author has undertaken
to deal with. It is finished in its literary com-
position and must hold a high place among
the sacred classics.
	It will perhaps not appeal to the ordinary
reader generally, as it will require depth of
thought and concentration to appreciate its
full meaning and application; but it will be
invaluable to those who must cope with
grave questions in the light of sound reason-
ing. The book contains 176 pages, and is
divided into ten chapters; and the contents
give one a good idea where to look for a
given subject.
	A brief preface tells the reader in a few
words some important facts that would
make one desirous of looking further into
its pages.
	The book evidences careful research that
has required much time and effort to compile


and arrange in such admirable order. The
subject is dealt with philisophically and from
a Book of Mormon standpoint as well as Bib-
lical history connecting the two most import-
ant and reliable books of inspiration and
prophecy of the past.


PRESIDENT GENERAL’S VISIT.
	Mrs. Adeline F. Fitz, President-General
of the D. R. Society at large, with head-
quarters in Fifth Avenue, New York City,
arrived in this city as expected on Thursday
afternoon Nov. 11, and was met at the Rio
Grande depot by the Regent, Mrs. Alice
Merrill Horne, with automobile, and a few
of the members, who welcomed her to the
city and escorted her to the home of Mrs.
Maria Y. Dougall to dine and rest before
the evening reception.
	The reception was an exceptionally bril-
liant affair, given purposely to introduce
Mrs. Fitz to the D. R. members and their
friends. The Farnsworth home was brightiy
illuminated and the colorc of the D. R.
Society were tastefully carried out in the
elaborate decorations. The host and host-
ess, Mr. and Mrs. Farnsworth, were most
cordial in welcoming the guest of honor, and
the invited company; and the ladies arriving
in time, the Regent, the hostess and the
President-General, with several of the offic-
ers and members, welcomed and introduced
the gentlemen and ladies to the distin-
guished guest of honor.
	Later on there was a song recital by the
President-General, who is a musician, and
Miss Irene Kelley, a pupil of Prof. Hugh
Dougall, rendering exquisitely the songs of
Mrs. Fitz, who is a song writer and com-
poser of both words and music, and it was
her delineation that gave tone to the enter-
tainment. The program was very select
and high class, both in purity of style and
adaptability to the occasion, a delightful
variety, in fact, that was harmonious and
uplifting instead of the monotony of small
talk that often becomes irksome. The lady
read between the songs and music, and her
voice was very full-toned and clear and rich
in expression of sentiment.
	The dining room was brilliant with charm-
ing young girls who served refreshments
with grace and ease of manner, meanwhile
music was softly playing in a distant room
of the stately home. There were no disap-
pointments, and all was managed so perfect-
ly as to insure pleasure and variety.
	Mr. and Mrs. Farnsworth, the Regent,
Mrs. Horne, and the committee in charge of
affairs are to be congratulated on the per-
fect success of the entire evening’s entertain-
ment.
	Friday morning the D. R. ladies, with
Mrs. Fitz and the Regent were due at the
State University in time for devotional ex-
ercises, and after singing America and a
few words of welcome by President Kings-
bury, the President-General addressed the
college students in a very pleasing style, her
remarks were appropriate and well chosen,
powerful and replete with telling anecdotes.
	After the exercises some of the ladies
visited several of the University departments
and a delicious luncheon, served under the
direction of the Dean of Domestic Science,
Miss Lucy Vun Cott which was thoroughly
enjoyed, and the conversation between Pres.
ident Kingsbury, Prof. Marshall and Mrs.
Fitz was calculated to give her a good idea
of higher education in Utah.
	The State Regent, Mrs. Horne, President


[Column 1]
General Mrs. Fitz, and members of the D.
R. went direct from the University to the
Saltair depot, where they were joined by in-
vited guests of ihe party, Governor Spry and
wife, Hon. John Henry Smith and wife,
Senator W. N. Williams and wife, and other
gentlemen and ladies, a car full. The day
was fine, though rather too cold for bathing,
but the pavilion and its setting is a novelty
in itself, and is one of the unique features of
our “mountain retreat.” There was an hour
for getting acquainted, and Mrs. Fitz, who
has traveled extensively, seemed delighted
with the company, the scenery and the view
of the Dead Sea of America.
	The next place to be visited was the his-
toric Lion House and Mrs. Fitz was shown
over this famous dwelling piace, built in
early days by the great pioneer, Brigham
Young. In the room where pioneer relics
were, Mrs. Zina Y. Card explained to Mrs.
Fitz concerning the interesting articles on
exhibition.
	Afterwards the ladies repaired to the hall
up stairs where a banquet was given in
honor of the Prosident-General. There were
twenty of the D. R. members, including the
guest of honor herself. The table was hand-
somely decorated in the Society colors, rib-
bons, flowers, place cards and all the pretty
appointments neatly arranged. Mrs. Maria
Y. Dougall offered in a few words a blessing
on the repast, and each lady in turn read the
sentiment on her place card, which was a
pleasant opening to “table talk.” Later the
Regent, Mrs. Horne, introduced the toast-
master, Mrs. W. N. Williams, in a very grac-
ious way, with a humorous address, quite
original and characteristically amusing.
The toastmaster responded in an equally
happy and genuine manner, receiving ap-
plause from the ladies present. Mrs. Wil-
liams called upon Mrs. Dougall to give some-
thing of the drama and amusements in early
days in Utah, which was given in the most
delightful and edifying way imaginable.
	Mrs. P. T. Farnsworth was the next to re-
spond, and her toast to the pioneers is given
in full on another page. The second Vice-
Regent, Mrs, Lund, gave a brief resume of
“Early Education in Utah,” very impressive
and interesting, summing up in brief much
important matter truly significant of the
struggles and difficulties of pioneer teachers
and the great efforts made by the people
who settled this Rocky Mountain region.
	Mrs. T. G. Webber gave the D. R. Society
in her own characteristic way; it was a
strong appeal, setting forth the nature and
benefits of the General Society and what it
had done in the last few years.
	(Mrs. Webber’s speech on another page.)
	The editor of this paper had been asked
to give the welcome to the President-General
which she did in a few loving and gracious
words—stating it was the first time any of
the General Officers had visited us, and that
we felt greatly delighted and honored in
having so grand and queenly a woman in
our midst as our President-General, Mrs.
Fitz.
	The President-General responded most
lovingly in genuine appreciation of rhe kind-
ness and honors shown her, the hospitable
entertainments, and that she should remem-
ber with pleasure the visit and the Society,
hoping we would gain in members and
strength and would soon have a Junior So-
ciety in which she had been Director-Gener-
al for two years, and was greatly interested
in the organization; her address was compli-
mentary to the Society and replete with
good wishes for success.

[Column 2]
	The banquet was a  delightful affair, as
were all the functions given for Mrs. Fitz and
we trust she realized how glad we were to
have the opportunity of honoring the Presi-
dent-General of the D. R., and that we ap-
preciated her fitness for the position she oc-
cupies and her charming personality; her
musical talent, aside from the high office she
has been called to, would endear her to
Utah people, who are known the world over
as music lovers.
	Saturday morning the State Regent, Mrs.
Horne, and members of the Society accom-
panied Mrs. Fitz to the Tabernacle, where a
special recital had been arranged for her by
President Joseph F. Smith, Prof. McClellan
at the great organ.
	Ai 12 p. m. a luncheon in her honor was
given to the State Regent and officers of
the D. R. at Mrs. T. G. Webber’s residence.
Covers were laid for twelve and the decora-
tions were most artistic and up-to-date in
every detail, as well as the sumptuous re-
past.
	After the luncheon at Mrs. Webber’s we
had the pleasure of a call at this office from
Mrs. Fitz, the President-General of the D.
R. Society, the State Regent, Mrs. Horne,
and Mrs. Dougall, at whose house Mrs. Fitz
has been entertained in the city as an honor-
ed guest, and the writer had the pleasure of
dining at Mrs. Dougall’s Saturday evening,
and conversing with Mrs. Fitz an hour or
more until a party of us accompanied her to
the theatre, as we were anxious she should
see the Salt Lake theatre, built by Brigham
Young, the great pioneer in promoting
amusements for the people.
	Mrs. Fitz left Sunday at 12:10, Nov. 14,
1909 for the east via Omaha, Milwaukee
and Chicago, expecting to reach her home in
Wakefield, Mass., in good time for Thanks-
giving.
	Her stay in Salt Lake was very enjoyable
and, we hope, profitable to the Society she
represents, and we wish her success and a
prosperous and successful administration,
as well as joy and happiness in all her var-
ous pursuits.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITOTIAL NOTES.
	As it is nearing the close of the year and
many of the subscribers to the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT are delinquent in their payments,
some even several years behind, it seems
positively necessary to remind them—no
doubt in most instances it is forgetfulness.
It is something that the editor of this paper
very much dislikes to do; most papers and
journals are largely maintained by adver-
tisements, but this paper depends entirely
upon the subscription, one dollar a year from
the sisters. We trust this notice will meet
with the approval of our patrons so that we
may be able to meet all expenses at the 
close of the year.
	The delegates from the N. W. R. S., Mrs.
Alice Merrill Horne, proxy for the President,
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, and Mrs. Eliza-
beth S. Wilcox, delegate, attended officially
the triennial session of the National Coun-
cil of Women of the United States, held in
Seattle, Washington, July 14-16, and were
very cordially welcomed and allotted every
privilege due to the society they represented,
and in fact they were graciously received
at all the grand functions given in honor of
both the National and International Coun-
cils. These two ladies, Mrs. Horne and Mrs.
Wilcox, in company with their husbands,
visited Victoria and Vancouver previous to
the opening of the Council, and enjoyed the


trip very much and especially the scenery.
Returning to Seattle, they met the distin-
guished party of gentlemen and ladies of
the International Council from abroad, first
at a magnificent banquet given in their hon-
or at the Empress Hotel; they were in time
to hear the program of toasts which must
have been exceptionally brilliant and a very
great pleasure. Mrs. Horne says “I enjoyed
it so much meeting my dear Frau Marie
Stritt, Dr. Alice Saloman and some of the la-
dies from England, Scandinavia and Belgium
that I had met before and some new people.
It was a magnifcent occasion and the day
was beautiful, perfect.” Mrs. Horne and
Mrs. Wilcox were privileged to attend all
the functions given and had excellent oppor-
tunities of conversing with the cultured
women of the world, who are engaged in the
highest educational and philianthropic work,
for the betterment of society and humanity.


MRS. ADELINE F. FITZ, PRESIDENT-GEN.
	ERAL DAUGHTERS OF THE
		REVOLUTION.
	It often becomes necessary when inter-
preting patriotic personality to search out
all its springs of action to follow up the
links that bind it to a past. The import-
ance and influence of such characters as
played so promlnent a part in the birth of
New England, as those of Mrs. Adeline
Frances Fitz on the paternal ancestrial line:
namely, Lieutenant James Torrey, who took
the oath of office as early as 1633. Captain
Caleb Torrey, who lost his life while drying
the town of Scituate’s stock of gunpowder
during the French and Indian war, Nich-
olas, one of the twelve men who founded
Harvard College with Joan Elliott as pas-
tor, at Roxbury—assisting in the translation
of the old Bay Psalm Book into Indian
verse, John Slade, keeper of the famous
Bite Tavern, opposite Faneuil Hall, Boston
—cannot but be of interest to those who
claim her as their leader. Her maternal
ancestors did not reach the American shores
until after the close of the war of 1812.
Mrs. Fitz has been thoroughly trained along
patriotic lines—she has served two years as
Historian, two years as Vice-Regent, and
three years as State Regent of the Mass-
achusetts Society. She in that time sug-
gested for her society two pieces of memor-
ial work—one as a state work, and one as
a national work—through her energy and
untiring work she saw them completed
while in office. The first was a beautiful
bronze tablet placed in the Boston Pubiic
Library—to the writers of patriotic verse
and songs—and the second the Gateway at
Cambridge—marking the spot where Wash-
ington took command of the American
army. Her latest suggestion, that of the
Annapolis Memorial to the founders of our
navy and the Revolutionary sailor is wel-
comed with even greater enthusiasm by her
patriotic sisters. Mrs. Fitz is the daughter
of David Slade, one of the oldest members 
of the Chamber of Commerce of Boston—
the wife of Judge Frank E. Fitz and the
mother of three sons. Her life work outside
of her family has been devoted to music—
and as a composer of songs she is recognized
as a leader in her home state. Most of her
composftions were produced as a pastime,
or to fit occasions in which her friends were
interested and sought her assistance. They
include a vast number of hymn settings, 
piano solos—and songs for kindergarten and
concert use. She was finally induced to 
publish the songs, and their appearance was


enthusiastically received by the musical
public. Although interested in music above
all other arts, she has fine literary taste, as
is shown by the selections which she has set
to music. Quoting Mrs. Fitz, she says:
“After all, a song is but a happy thought to
music set.” Mrs. Fitz is also the writer of
four lectures on different subjects in the
world of music. Mrs. Fitz comes to our
state in the interest of her organization—the
Daughters of the Revolution. She is also a
member of the Professional Woman’s Club
of Boston. and of the Kosmos Club. of
Wakefield, Massachusetts.		Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
			OGDEN STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Ogden stake convened in the
Relief Society Hall at Ogden on the 19th
day of July, 1909.
	The morning session commenced at 10
o’clock.
	There were present on the stand Counselors
Isabel Foulger and L. Letitia Richards of
the Stake Presidency of the Relief Society
and all members of the Board with the ex-
ception of President Sarah M. Taylor who
was unable to be present. Of the brethren
there were President Thomas B. Evans of
the Stake Presidency and Elder George E.
Ferrin of the High Council.
	Counselor Isabel Foulger presiding. After
excuses, roll call and prelude, prayer was
offered by Sister Reast, and the usual exer-
cises of singing, minutes, etc.
	Counselor Foulger welcomed all present
and trusted that we might have an enjoy-
able time while together. Referred to the
significance of the day to the Relief Society,
it being thirty-two years ago today since
President Brigham Young met with the Re-
lief Society in Ogden, organizing them into
a stake. the first womans organization, with
Sister Jane S. Richards appointed president,
also inaugurating the quarterly conferences,
which have been so prolific of good. Re-
gretted that Sister Richards was too feeble
to be with us on this occasion. Stated that
our visitors from the city would arrive later.
	Reports from nine of the ten associations
were given, all denoting activity and growth;
the Mother’s work especially was growing
in favor and was the means of bringing
many young mothers into the society. The
poor and the aged were being tenderly cared
for and the careless and indifferent were be-
ing visited.
	The secretary’s report showed that weekly
meetings were held uniformly throughout
the stake and that one hundred and eighty
visits had been made to the associations,
by the members of the Board during the
eleven month’s existence of the Ogden stake.
Officers meetings were held monthly with
an average of 60 per cent attendance. As a
beginning we are not discouraged; although
we see much to be accomplished yet we are
learning “To labor and to wait.”
	President Evans had greatly enjoyed the
spirit of the conference, commended the sis-
ters for their punctuality for he realized that
the mothers in Israel had much to do. 
Spoke of the deplorable conditions existing
among our young people and wondered
whether the Relief Society was reaching the
mothers, for until we reach the mothers we
can never reach the daughters. Prayed the
Lord to bless us that we might be able to
minister to the spiritually sick and afflicted
for our mission is to save souls. 
	Sister Harriet B. Harker of the General

[Column 2]
Relief Society Board said our field of labor
is broad, there is nothing good or praise-
worthy but belongs to the Relief Society,
nothing good or great that we may not do.
Regarding the training of the child “preven-
tion is better than cure;” watch your chil-
dren from infancy. Every home properly
organized is a power for good in the com-
munity and when we have learned to rightly
govern our own we are qualified to help
others.
	Elder George E. Ferrin of the High Coun-
cil had greatly enjoyed the excellent things
he had heard but realized that not what we
hear but what we put into practice tends to
our growth and development.
	Sister Ida Smoot Dusenberry of the Relief
Society Presidency spoke on respect for the
aged. Paid a glowing tribute to the life and
labors of Sister Jane S. Richards, that great
woman who has done so much for the Relief
Society cause not alone in Weber county
but throughout Zion.
	The congregation sang and the benedic-
tion was pronounced and morning session
adjourned.
	A luncheon was prepared and served by
the sisters of the 7th ward and a social time
was had during the interval between meet-
ings.
	The afternoon session convened at two
o’clock.
	Counselor Foulger presiding.
	Prayer was offered by Sister Mary A. Jost
of the Stake Board.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry of the
General Relief Society spoke at some length
on Mother and Child, pleading with the
mothers to start the training of the child
early and not to wait until “too late.” Real-
ized the great need of the home mother, and
yet there are times when we need to get out
and learn the needs of the community and
of the world; other souls are struggling with
problems as well as ourselves and perhaps
we have something that others have not and
therefore our Father requires us to co-ope-
rate and to bless and strengthen each other
and has given us the Relief Society as a me-
dium and it stands as a monument of virtue
and purity. Prayed the Lord to bless the
mothers in Israel that they might better
understand their children and that as a so-
ciety we might band together and do a little
preventive work in the community.
	Sister Harker of the General Relief Society
Board commended the work of the teachers.
Said they are the back-bone of the society;
their responsibilities are great but they can
get the spirit of their work, the spirit of dis-
cernment, by entering into their closets and
calling upon the Lord. Spoke of the Relief
Society Nurse Class and urged the neces-
sity of sending our girls that they might
qualify themselves for intelligent nursing.
	President Evans asked the Lord to help
us to apply all that had been said this day,
that we might be worthy examples before
our children and before the world.
	Counselor Foulger desired to be a power
for good in the midst of Zion. Trusted that
all would be stirred up to greater diligence
through the teachings given this day. Felt
that we had been richly blessed in having
our sisters from the General Board with us
and that their teachings would be a stimu-
lus to greater exertion and nobler efforts.
	The congregation sang “God be with you
till we meet again.”
	The benediction was pronounced by Pre-
sident Evans, and the conference was ad-
journed for three months.
			NELLIE BECRAFT, Secretary.


IN MEMORIAM.
	In memory of our beloved sister, Annie R.
Stringham, who departed this life, October 26,
1909, at the age of 46 years.
	We, the members of the Relief Society are
bereft of our Beloved and ever faithful co-worker.
Our intimate association with her in the perform-
ance of her duties in the ward, has so endeared
her to us that we feel it befitting to express our
appreciation of her labors in the Relief Society.
Sunday School, and Primary Association. She
has been a stay and strength to the people with
whom she mingled. A guardian angel among the
sick and afflicted, a prudent, conscientious and
careful counselor to those who were in distress and
needed counsel.
	She was an exemplar of ihe ideals we hold best
in our lives. A genuine, devoted wife. A loving,
earnest and thoughtful mother. Her life work
has been the uplifting and betterment or her kind.
Few can be found who have so faithfully fulfilled
the duties and responsibilities that have rested on
her. Be it
	Resolved, that we extend our heartfelt sym-
pathy to her husband and children, and ask the
Lord to bless and comfort them, and cause them
to know he is their friend.
	Resolved, that we send a copy to the Woman’s
Exponent and give a copy to the family.
			ELIZABETH GLEDHILL,
			LILLY BELLE GLEDHILL,
			EMMA POFF,
				Committee on Resolutions!

		OUR FOUNDER GENERAL.
	Expressions of love and esteem to the memory
of Annie Taylor Hyde, who departed this life
March, 1909.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has called from
our midst our beloved Founder-General and
first president, Annie Taylor Hyde, who through
religion and loyalty, founded this Society of
Daughters of Utah Pioneers, obeying willingly
the commandment to honor thy father and thy
mother, and
	Whereas, We shall miss not only her dear,
sweet face, her gentle voice and pleasant smile,
but her many beautiful ideas, her high standard
of honor and duty and exeecutive ability, and her
great influence in making parental honor a per-
petual suggestion in our society, therefore be it
	Resolved, That, while we say Thy will be done,
we deeply regret that she has been taken from us,
for her life was a benediction to us; that we feel
full sympathy for her family. May the home
which she blessed never lose her influence, and
may her children hold as sacred her precepts
as she did those of her parents, and
	Resolved, As Daughters of Utah Pioneers, that
we will honor father, honor mother, also the
memory of Annie T. Hyde while life lasts, and
make this society a living monument to their
names.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be sent to the
family of deceased as a mark of respect, and a
copy be recorded in our minute book.

		Annie’s hands have labored,
			Sharing love and life.
		Daughters we must follow,
			In this noble strife.

		Onward, pioneer daughters,
			Raise our standard high,
		Honor parents’ mem’ries 
			Let this be our cry.

			SUSA YOUNG GATES,
			VICKIE CLAYTON MCCUNE,
			ANNIE LYNCH
							Committee.


ADVANCE NOTICE.
	INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF
WOMEN, two volumes, edited by Mrs. May
Wright Sewall, printed and published by
THE PLIMPTON PRESS, Norwood, Mass.;
octavo size, 300 pages each, illustrated.
$1.50 per set.
	The Plimpton Press is bringing out a
work which its editor, Mrs. May Wright
Sewall, has made of historical and socio-
logical value.
	The work includes two octavo volumes of
300 pages each, illustrated by numerous
half-tones of both persons and places.
These volumes are the record of the work


and growth of the International Council of
Women during its Third Quinquennial
(1899-1904), when Mrs. May Wright Sewall
was its president. Volume I is a complete
record of all meetings held under her ad-
ministration, and is practically a survey of
women’s work throughout the modern
world. Reports of this character are usu-
ally intended merely for temporary use by
the people immediately concerned. These
volumes are intended and have been so ex-
ecuted that they are, a contribution of per-
manent value to the history of our period.
Volume I contains a double-index, one of
persons and one of subjects;—the former in-
cluding over three hundred and fifty names,
is a register of the active Council workers in
nineteen countries, and is so carefully ar-
ranged that the work of each participant in
the Council movement can be read as a con-
tinuous story by any one seeking to know
the Council record of any individual. The
second index is prepared in a manner that
enables a student to study every subject
and the progressive development of each
department of work in the Council in the
same independent and progressive manner.
Volume II contains the reports and ad-
dresses made by the most prominent and
distinguished Council Workers at the Berlin
Quinquennial, and taken as a whole, gives
a bird’s eye view of the work that women of
the world have in hand for its social civil,
and ethical betterment. These volumes
justify every claim that has been advanced
for the value of the Council as a factor
in human progress, and particularly as an
agent for the nurture arid development of
that SENSE of SOLIDITY on which all Inter-
national association in work for human
progress must be based. These volumes
should be in every public library in the
country, and, if necessary, a special edition
should be issued that would suffice to place
a set of them in the library of every high
school, academy and college. Every year
witnesses an increase in the number of stu-
dents, particularly in the number of young
women who are interested in the progressive
liberty of their sex. To all such students
these volumes should be made accessible,


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORT
			NEBO STAKE.
	Minutes of the Quarterly onference of the
Relief Society of Nebo Stake, held at Lake
Shore, Sept. 24, 1909.
	Conference convened at 10 o’clock a. m.
President Eliza J. Dixon presiding. Sing-
ing; prayer; singing, and other usual exer-
cises. Sister Serena Yond, president of
Lake Shore spoke a few words of welcome.
Sister Kapple made the response of wel-
come and spoke of the Relief Society work
as being organized by the Prophet Joseph
Smith. Felt thankful for the testimony she
had of the truthfulness of the Gospel. Sis-
ter Dixon spoke of the organization of the
Church, how perfect it is; there are organi-
zations for all from the child up, where they
are instructed in the Gospel. The sisters
are expected to look after the morals of the
sisters and encourage the brethren to good
works; spoke on the work of the teachers
visiting and taking care of the sick and
needy, and laying away the dead, we should
be thankful that there is an organization to
look after these things. Let us be faithful
and keep the commandments of the Lord.
Sister Monk reported Palmyra Ward, forty
members enrolled, doing a good work, and

[Column 2]
helping the missionaries. Sister Yond re-
ported Lake Shore in good condition, bore
her testimony.
	Hymn by the choir. An exercise was
given by Sister Crook on parents’ class
work, subject “Motherhood.”
	Duett by Mary E. Berry and Gwen Huff,
entitled “Daughters of Zion.”
	Sister Brown who has been called to
labor in the Primary spoke for a short
time; said her interest was still in the Re-
lief Society, feels that the Spirit of the
Lord is with us today, if we are sincere the
Lord will answer our prayers and we can
all gain a testimony for ourselves if we
work for it and pray to the Lord.
	Brother Joseph Tanner spoke a short
time on shirking the responsibility of rais-
ing children. Related a circumstance of a
brother’s spirit leaving his body, and the
condition he found himself in, he was in
debt and was permitted to come back and
pay debts; spoke of his trip to Canada, and
some of the conditions there: how well
meetings were attended, and the good feel-
ing that prevailed. Conference adjourned
until 2 p. m., by singing.
	Benediction by Sister Eliza A. Hawkins.
	Afternoon session: Conference recon-
vened at 2 p. m., President Eliza J. Dixon
presiding. Singing; prayer; singing, and
usual exercises.
	Sister Hawkins made a few remarks
on her trip to California and her visit to
the branch of the Church in Los Angeles.
Song by Sister Hortense Anderson entitled,
“I need thee every hour.”
	A lecture was given on spiritual growth,
how knowledge comes, by Sister Evans.
	Bishop Argyle spoke on the sick being
healed by administration. Spoke of the
power our sisters have in administering to
the sick. Said we are preparing ourselves
for the second coming of-the Savior.
	Recitation by Sister Lizzie Huff, entitled
“If we knew.”
	Sister Kapple said we only gain by the
knowledge we get. We should train our
children by our own examples as mothers,
if we are humble and faithful the Lord
will bless us and we will be guided right
and know what to do when our children are
sick. Spoke of the blessings that are prom-
ised us if we keep the word of wisdom;
also on keeping our records correctly.
	Brother Francis spoke on Relief Society
work. Sister Dixon made a few closing
remarks, and thanked the people of Lake
Shore for their hospitality.
	Conference adjourned for three months
by singing and benediction by Elder Nath-
an Clayson.
			ELIZA A. HAWKINS,
							Cor. Sec.


[Column 1]
			AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
[LIFE AND TRAVELS OF NANCY M. TRACY.]
		(Continuation from page 26.)
	If we did not taste the bitter we could not
prize the sweet. Let us keep God’s com-
mandments, and trust in Him and work out
our salvation.
	But to return to my narrative. It is now
winter and in consequence of the trouble,
not much preparation for comfort, let alone
preparing for another move. Yet Brother
Joseph Smith would often send cheerful
messages to the Saints, suffering as he was,
telling them to get away as fast as they

[Column 2]
could for there would be no chance for him
and his brethren as long as one remained.
Imagine our feelings to leave the state, and
leave our Prophet and brethren in a cold
dungeon, and food loathsome beyond de-
scription placed before them of which they
could not partake but leave we must, and
as fast as the people could they started.
	I think it was on the 1st of March we
started to Illinois, for this was the direction
in which the Saints were traveling. My
husband fitted up our conveyance, the best
he could; which was a cart with a bed sheet
for a cover, and one horse. He was a noble
animal and did his part well. We called
him Prince. But after he had taken us
safely out of the state he lay down and died.
	I could not describe our suffering on this
journey. Five of us in this small convey-
ance, we could not take anything but our
bedding, a little clothing and food. It
stormed incessantly on the road. Some-
times we could travel no more than five
miles in a day, and when we got to the
Mississippi bottom, which was several miles
it was almost impossible to travel for mud
and water. At night we would gather brush
and sticks to lay our bed on and then be-
fore morning be drenched to the skin.
	At last we reached the river; having money
enough to pay for being taken across. We
had been three weeks on the road. We
crossed at Quincy and went up the river a
few miles, stopped for awhile to rest, and,
as I have stated, our horse died. So we
stayed in Adams’ county one year before
going up to Nauvoo; raised a small crop in
this placo, enough to live upon the winter
we stayed there.
	There were five families of us in this
place that had come from Missouri and
shared in persecutions. Three families of
the Tippits and Brother G. Perry. We en-
joyed ourselves with one exception: Brother
John Tippits lost his wife there, and that
cast a gloom over us all for a season, for she
was much esteemed by all of us for her
goodness. In the spring Brother Alva Tip-
pits loaned us a horse to go to Nauvoo.
	I will not attempt to give details of the
brethren’s escape from prison. Suffice it to
say, they got to Nauvoo before we did.
Providence had worked out their deliver-
ance, after the Saints had left the state and
they had been six months in that horrible
prison. Well, here we were again, not con-
quered in spirit, but determined to live our
religion and stand by the principles of the
Gospel and build up the kingdom of God.
	The people here in Illinois seemed hospit-
able and willing to give us a resting place,
but how long would they feel like this, time
alone would tell. It was a very sickly place
here, especially for children. We got a city
lot and built a comfortable log house at the
foot of the hill near the street that led up to
the Temple lot. We sold this place to
Brother Woodruff and took another lot one
block south of this, and were enabled to
build a better house—a frame with two
rooms.
	My fourth child, one born after we got
to Nauvoo, died in this house when he was
one year and eight months old. After his
death I took up a school and taught a term
of three months. This took up my time and
passed off the summer. Work on the Tem-
ple had commenced and the basement story
nearly completed. Elders were being sent
out to the nations to preach the Gospel, em-
grants were coming in from different parts
of the earth and the kingdom was rolling
on.
	About this time the Relief Society was


[Column 1]
organized with Emma Smith as president,
Eliza R. Snow secretary. I joined this So-
ciety. It was for the Relief of the poor and
for every noble purpose that came within
woman’s sphere of action. We had such
good instructions given in our meetings.
Sometimes Brother Joseph would come and
instruct us. Once in particular I remember
his opening the meeting with prayer. He
was full of the Spirit of God. His whole
frame shook, and his face shone and looked
almost transparent. This was about the
time that the celestial order of marriage
was revealed to him, and he had taught it
to a few who could bear it. But I heard
him say at one time on the stand, in the
grove on the brink of the hill, where they
held the meetings: “If I should make known
to these, [turning to those that sat behind
him] who pretend to be my best friends
what God has revealed to me, they would
be the first to seek my life.” Among those
that sat there were William Law and Wil-
liam Marks, and surely those men turned to
be his most bitter enemies, although they
had pretended the greatest friendship.
	It was not all sunshine here in Nauvoo,
the clouds began to gather thick around.
Brother Joseph was arraigned many times
before the law, but always was cleared of the
charges against him. It seemed no man was
harassed as he was; and for what reason?
Because he was a prophet raised up in this
wicked and perverse generation to be an
instrument in the hands of God to lay the
foundation of his kingdom on the earth; and
ws read in holy writ that in like manner they
persecuted the prophets before.
	To return again: Now we had an offer to
sell our home again; this time we realized, I
think it wns $225.00. It was all cash this
time. We now went up on the hill near the
Temple, and bought one quarter of an acre.
It was a beautiful location. In front to the
east lay the public square; on the south the
Temple and Main Street, called Mullholland
Street. Here, we thought would be our
home, and we would move no more. My
husband did his own carpenter work. He
built us a good frame house here, with
three rooms and a good cellar. I enjoyed
living in this house very much. I could
look over to the temple and see the work-
men at their work and hear the click of the
hammer from morn to eve, and their sailor
songs as they were pulling the rocks in
place with pullies; and I thought it de-
lightful.
	One day I looked over to the Temple and
saw a large crowd gathered at the north-
east corner. I thought I saw some females
in the crowd, so I put on my bonnet and
shawl and went over. Brother Joseph
seemed very busily engaged. The crowd
around the corner stone was so great that I
could not at first imagine what was being
done. At last Brother Joseph said,
“Brethren, stand back, and let these sisters
come and see for themselves.” There were
three of us. Sisters Whitney, Cahoon and
myself. The brethren gave way and we
went up to the huge rock, and in the center
was a square box chiseled out, I think some
over a foot square, and about the same
depth and lined with zinc. In this Brother
Joseph had placed the Bible, Book of Mor-
mon, Doctrine and Covenants, Hymn Book,
and other Church works, as well as the
newspapers—the Times and Seasons and
the Nauvoo Neighbor, that were printed in
Nauvoo,-and money that had been coined in
that year. These things were all laid in
this box, then a lid of stone cemented down

[Column 2]
and the house built on the top of it. This
made me think of the prophets in ancient
days hiding up records to come forth in fu-
ture generations. But I never had any ex-
planation, but supposed it was for some
wise purpose.
	This building progressed with great rapid-
ity, and I was present when the capstone
was laid. The Saints turned out to hear the
last ring of the trowel on that house and to
hear the address delivered on this occasion.
During the building of that structure the
brethren had a great deal to contend with,
hecause the people in the state were getting
more hostile towards us all the time; but
the Lord held them at bay until the house
was finished. The Lord accepted it at their
hands.
	Previous to this the Prophet Joseph Smith
had written his views on the powers and
policy of the government, and they were
printed in pamphlet form. The elders that
were sent out to preach the Gospel were
counseled to take this work with them, and
present it to the world. My husband was
among the number, and took this work with
him. He was to go to the state of New
York, consequently would go and visit his
birthplace before he returned. I had a great
desire to go with him and stay among our
relatives until he fulfilled his mission. He
went and asked counsel of Brothers Joseph
and Hyrum. They told him to take me
along and I should prove a blessing to him,
so he received his instructions, and we
rented our house and started.
	Our course was along the Mississippi river
on the steamer “Osprey” to St. Louis, and
on the “Robert Fulton” down to the mouth
of the Ohio river and up that rlver to Pitts-
burg, then by rail and canals until we
reached Buffalo, where we took a steamer
down the lake Ontario and landed at Sack-
ett’s Harbor, about the 25th of June.
	We were now within twelve miles of
Father Tracy’s. My husband walked eight
miles to his brother-in-laws, Samuel Mattison
and he, with his team came after us, brought
us to his house that night, and next day we
all went to Father Tracy’s and met with
a cordial greeting amongst our relatives in
general, having been absent ten years, we
had been visiting and enjoying ourselves for
one short week, and behold the heart-rend-
ing news reached us of the murder of our
dear Prophet and Patriarch, who so short
a time before had instructed my husband
concerning his mission and had come down
to the boat to see us off. Could it be true that
those noble men had sealed their testimony
with their blood my husband was so stricken
with the blow he could hardly bear up and
the cry was now, “Your Church will go to
nothing now, your leaders are killed,
they did not comprehend the prophecy con-
cerning the kingdom of God in the last days,
and that God was able to raise up another
to stand as a mouthpiece from Him to His
people, but now it was truly a gloomy, sor-
rowful time in Nauvoo. These men gave
themselves up to be tried with a pledge of
the state that they would be protected; but
the result is too well known. The plan was
concocted from the official head down to

[Column 3]
the lowest demons that committed the dark
deed. And this in our boasted land of lib-
erty that our fathers fought and bled to re-
deem from under the iron yoke and would be
permitted to worship God as they chose and
as their conscience should dictate, but where
now was protection from mob violence and
persecution? How often have the Latter-
day Saints sought for redress to the rulers of
this land, but they turn a deaf ear to our
entreaties. But surely the day is at hand
when God will allow the Saints to triumph
over their foes and so we will leave them in
the hands of God, for he says, “Revenge is
mine; I will repay.”
	I will return to my narrative. Before we
went east, my husband was in the employ
of one Amos Davis, a merchant in Nauvoo,
and had been for one year and a half, and
when he settled up with him, he very gen-
erously presented my husband with a suit of
broadcloth, with hat and fine boots, and
myself a dress pattern, said he regretted to
part with him, and when he returned if he
wanted employment he could have his place
back.
	While we were in New York my husband
preached the Gospel and baptized two, also
advocated Brother Joseph’s views on the
powers and policy of the government. We
bore faithful testimonies to our brethren and
relatives and in the spring bid our friends
farewell to return again to our home in Nau-
voo. We landed at the City of the Saints
the twelfth of August on Sunday morn-
ing, but O how lonely it seemed! Our
Prophet and Patriarch were not among the
Saints in person, but that day his spirit
rested upon Brigham Young and as the
mantle of Joseph fell on Brigham it seemed
that the voice and every gesture was like
Joseph and he was sustained as prophet,
seer and revelator by the voice of the people.
	After we got back to Nauvoo, my young-
est child, two years and two months old,
was taken very sick and only lived two
weeks. This was two children I had buried
in Nauvoo. They were laid side by side,
and were about the same age. They were
two fine children, but it seemed almost im-
possible to raise a child in Nauvoo.
		[TO BE CONTINUED.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	The Woman’s Journal devotes a large part
of the October 16 issue to an account of
Mrs. Emmeline Pankhurst, and the Women’s
Social and Political Union, of which she is
head. The reports in the American press
of the “militant” movement for woman suf-
frage in England have been to the last de-
gree distorted and misleading while the
quieter activities of the many non-militant
English suffrage societies are not reported
at all. Not one in a thousand of our people,
unles he takes a woman suffrage paper, has
any conception of the remarkabie agitation
now going on in Great Britain. It is really
among the most wonderful things in history.
Mrs. Pankhurst deserves the esteem of all
men and women who love justice, who re-
spect self-sacrifice, who appreciate masterly
generalship, or who admire courage.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
						67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY		LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS	TRY US
					OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 38.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, (HOLIDAY NUMBER) JANUARY, 1910.			No. 6.


CONTENTS.
								PAGE
Greetings and Congratulations..................
	...........President Bathsheba W. Smith	41
A Very Interesting Letter.......R. B Penrose	41
Watchman. What of the Night? L.D Alder	42, 46
Autobiography.................Nancy M. Tracy	48
The Growth of Woman Suffrage...............	45
Tribute of Love..........................................	46
Noble Woman Summoned.........................	46
Relief Society Stake Reports:—St. Joseph	47
	Morgan—Liberty	Snowflake...........	47
Editorial:—The Prophet’s Birthday............	44
	President Winder’s Birthday...............	44
	A Home Wedding................................	44
	A Genuine Surprise.............................	44
	Relief Society Headquarters................	45
	The Holiday Season.............................	45
Poetry:—Christmas Merry Christmas..........	41


CHRISTHAS MERRY CHRISTMAS.

There in a lowly manger, in Bethlehem He lay,
	Where slept the weary cattle among the frag-
		grant hay,
Bright angels sang the story on that first Chrfst-
		mas morn,
	“To all the world glad tidings, lo, Christ the
		Lord, is born.”

The children tell the story of Him the heavens
		adore,
	Tell of the infant Jesus the Magii knelt before,
They brought Him gifts of incense and offerings of
		love.
	While blazed the wondrous, glorious star in the
		vaults above.

Then sing this Christmas morning of Jesus and
		His love,
	Be happy as the angels, who sing of him above,
For Christmas is the children’s—a time of loy
		and mirth—
Then let us love as children all who dwell on
		earth,
 
For soon He will be coming—He said that this
		should be,
	And shall the little children alone His glory see?
O, let us be as children, lay by all selfishness,
	Be innocent as children, Christ loves to own and
		bless.

Then Christmas, merry Christmas, O you are wel- 
		come here. 
	For Christmas love abiding, fills all the world
		with cheer.
In heaven, too, is Christmas, and there the
		angels sing
	“Give glory, honor unto him, Christ our Lord
		and King.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


[Column 1]
GREETING AND CONGRATULATIONS.
To the Relief Society:
	Beloved sisters and co-laborers in the Re-
lief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in the several stakes, mis-
sions and branches throughout the world.
	To you we send love, congratulations and
a New Year’s greeting, and exhort you to
faithfulness, purity and holiness.
	We desire to express to you at the com-
mencement of this year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred and ten, our appreciation of
your labors in the past, and our commenda-
tion of the efforts you have made to co-oper-
ate together for the spread and building up
of this charitable organization in all its

[Column 2]
various departments and lines of work for
the benefit of all women everywhere, and
the uplifting of humanity.
	Our Relief Society reaches out in every
domain of woman’s activities and em-
braces all the agencies designed to aid
those who are seeking out avenues of
helpfulness, for the best methods of
correct habits and customs of daily life
the preservation of health and of useful-
ness; and the encouraging of the young and
rising generation to cultivate habits of in-
dustry and thrift, and promote the higher
qualities of heart and soul.
	The Relief Society stands first of all the
auxiliary organizations in the Church, and
should be foremost in promoting good works
and high ideals. It is also, so far as known,
the first woman’s organization in the world.
	This society was organized by the Prophet
Joseph Smith on Thursday, March 17, 1842,
in the city of Nauvoo, Illinois. At that
memorable meeting only a select few sisters
out of that city had been invited to partici-
pate in the proceedings of that wonderful
occasion, and today all those present then
have passed to the great beyond, all except
one who holds the position of President
now. It was at a period of time when a
woman’s organization was unheard of, and
it is a remarkable fact and worthy of being
recorded and remembered that a society so
unique in all the details of its founding
should have been formed without pattern
or precedent, and that it should have pre-
served its identity through all the changing
years and the peculiar circumstances of our
people down to the present time, sixty-
eight long years.
	Does not this fact prove the strength and
solidity and permanence imparted at the
time of its founding by the great men and
women who took part therein, and it has
stood firm and steadfast without changing its
name or its purpose except to spread abroad
among the nations gaining in numbers, in-
creasing in influence and popularity to the
admiration not only of the women of the
Church but the women of the world.
	It is the ardent wish and desire of my
heart at this time to impart to you some of
my thoughts and feelings of the spirit of
true Relief Sooiety work as I enderstand its
significance. It is to care for the poor, the
needy, the sick and distressed in body or in
mind, to console the sorrowing, to comfort
the mourner, to minister to the dying, to
perform the last sad rites for the dead be-
fore the burial. These are some of the ardu-
ous, active duties that belong to the work
of this precious society; and in the perform-
ance of these duties in the spirit of meek-

[Column 3]
ness and humility the richest blessings will
assuredly follow, and joy will abound in
your hearts, the true comfort that follows
those who devote the energies of their lives
to the service of others.
	My heart is with you in these labors of
love so diligently and faithfully fulfilled by
our sisters of the Relief Society in the
localities where they reside. Would I could
take each one of you by the hand and con-
verse with you upon these things, but that
pleasure is not permitted me; but in the
vision of my mind I follow you as you go
on your errands of mercy and charity, and
from my heart I bless you with the blessing
of a mother in Israel; and I pray that your
work may seem light and not burdensome,
and that the rich outpourings of the Holy
Spirit may buoy you up when days seem
dark, and life’s pathways long and lonely.
	And this message I bring to you that you
love one another, that you cease evil speak-
ing, that you observe the Sabbath day, and
the Word of Wisdom, that you be circum-
spect in all your ways, that you honor and
reverence the priesthood, and teach your
children all these principles, that we may
have a generation that will serve the Lord
and keep His commandments, and be pre-
pared to withstand all the evils that are
prevalent in the world, that they may be
worthy to stand upon the land of Zion and
receive their inheritance therein.
	And again I exhort you to keep the com-
mandments of the Lord and teach by ex-
ample as well as by precept, and never
grow weary in well doing, pray without ceas-
ing, uphold those who preside over you, and
remember the words of the Savior, “Inas-
much as ye have done it unto one of the
least of these, ye have done it unto me,” and
now peace, joy and love be and abide with
you always is my prayer for all those en-
gaged in this glorious organization of the
Relief Society.
		BATHSHEBA W. SMITH, President.


A VERY INTERESTING LETTER.
	295 EDGE LANE, LIVERPOOL,
		December 3rd, 1909.
My Beloved Friend Sister Wells:
	Your most welcome letter received some
days ago but have been off to conferences
and also had a friend here at Durham House
for weeks, so it seemed I never would get
down to writing you. You have already had
a good description of our delightful trip to
the North Cape and the Midnight Sun, so I
will not take your time to say more of it at
present, But it was a great pleasure while
gliding along between the mountain shore
and the myriads of islands on the other side,
many of which on both sides were capped
with snow, and every little nook large


[Column 1]
enough to accommodate a house would be a
fisherman’s home—if there was room
enough there would be a cluster of houses
and a little church. The sea in front of
them and steep, rugged, forbidding moun-
tains behind them, The lone house or two
seemed too lonely to think of living there,
but I suppose many a light and happy heart
beats beneath such roofs. I admire the
Norwegians as a nation very much, they are
usually tall, robust and hardy and possessed
of excellent sense and wisdom. Christiania
is a fine city with thousands of fine people.
Norway is a beautiful country itself with its
mountains, rocks, trees, rivers, lakes and
fjords. The midnight sun sank into a sea
of molten gold which flashed and scinti-
lated beyond the power of pen or brush to
describe, but did not disappear but gradu-
ally began to rise again.
	I have lately been visiting a number of
Relief Socety organizations, and also get
letters of encouragement from many others,
and find the work is progressing most satis-
factorily. The sisters are realizing the bene-
fit to themselves of being organized into a
society and learning how to conduct their
affairs. I have not counted up lately, but I
believe there are over forty now in active,
good condition. In some of the conferences
there are five or six organizations, so that we
can hold a good conference with the sisters.
	Our November weather was very fine,
really exceptional for England, but Decem-
ber has come in with the rush and roar of
an angry lion, but we have not yet had a
flake of snow. One cannot get out of
their minds the poor children who run about
the streets clothed in rags and barefooted in
this inclement weather and even with suow
on the ground they are seen running about
barefooted.
	When I think over the many people at
home who have died that I have had the
pleasure of acquaintance with it makes
me feel lonely indeed, and feel that I shall
almost walk the streets of Salt Lake as a
stranger when I get home. I approach a
new newspaper with some dread for fear of
reading the death of some one I have known,
and yet with that fear upon me I look the
first thing to see who has died, and if I am
a stranger to them I say to myself some one
else is sad. So far as we have heard all our
dear ones are well at home, for which we
are truly thankful.
	Mr. Penrose has received a copy of Susa’s
new book “John Stevens’ Courtship,” and
we have both read it with much pleasure,
and he says it is well written and a good
story with much of real history in it. We
have puzzled to think who Aunt Clara
was as well as Diantha and Ellen, John
is a composite character and may be many
we could pick out. Do you know who they
represent? or are types of. Surely Susa has
a facile pen and a clear head. But I never
read a story of more interest and absorbing
pleasure than when I read “Hepbzibah,” by
Aunt Emm. I wish that was in book form.
	Brother and Sister Farnsworlh and daugh-
ters called on us at Durham House for an
hour or so and we saw them no more as
they did not retnrn home by Liverpool.
	I often think over in my mind the spiritual
feasts we used to have when those sweet
spiritual-minded sisters were with us, and
sincerely hope we can again enjoy together
meetings like them. Why not? Have we
not learned more of the goodness of God
and received of His mercies and will He not
let us draw near unto Him again? I feel
that He will and that we may enjoy even

[Column 2]
greater manifestations yet than even before.
Such is my faith and may God grant it.
	I see that politically our enemies are upon
us yet, but can we expect anything else
when we are divided? It may be good for
us as a people, for whenever was the time
when great prosperity was with the people
that they did not begin to forget the Lord.
Better pay out our money for taxes and all
their thefts than to get into darkness. Our
enemies may lash us together. I cannot
tell you how much I long to have a heart
to heart talk with you again. Do take care
of yourself and not expose your health by
being out late the coming cold winter nights.
When I think of what you do at your time
of life I feel ashamed of what little I can do,
yet I am busy all the time and feel almost
have not time to read the papers be-
cause I need to do so many things. My Re-
lief Society book is filled up and running
over so I shall have to get a much larger one
and copy them all out. Every day I get
letters asking advice and counsel and want-
ing sympathy and encouragement. I do
hope whoever is appointed to succeed my
dear husband in the European Mission that
his wife will be interested in the Relief So-
ciety work and will help the sisters with her
counsel and encouragement. I have been
making warm bonnets for the poor of our
branch. I have made four and have two
more and a cap to make. We have a mil-
liner belonging to our branch Relief Society
and she taught me how and gave me the
pattern, and everyone says they are very
nice. They are of velveteen, and I had a
nice piece of flannel of my own with which
I make a middle lining and put a pretty
frill of pink silkoline in front and strings,
and they look quite cute and will make the
children quite happy.
	The President is quite well usually but is
overworked but he soon recuperates and is
not one to give up. We have at supper with
us tonight Apostle Whitney’s son Byron,
also Brother Barnes’ son who is released to
go home. Elder Whitney favors his mother.
Annie’s son Daniel is doing fine. He is
much thought of as a missionary. My love
to Annie and Belle and all of theirs, also to
Sister Bathsheba and all the Board. Tell
Sister Shipp I enjoy reading her poems in
the EXPONENT, also Sister Alder’s. Mr.
Penrose and I send very best love to your-
self and hope to hear again from you when
you have time. Love to Susa.
		Most sincerely,
			ROMANIA B. PENROSE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WATCHMAN, WHAT OF THE NIGHT?
	During the long cycles of time, that are
buried in the past, this question has been
asked, by those, who as the prophet Malachi
states it, “Seek the Lord.”
	By him we are also told, that “He will
send his messenger before his face, even the
messenger of the covenant.” Also “that he
will suddenly come to his temple.” Then
the question is asked “But who shall abide
the day of his coming.”
	That this could not have referred to his
first coming is clear; for then he did not ap-
pear suddenly, but as all other infants, he
lay on his mother’s bosom, encircled by her
loving arms, while the wise men worshipped
him, bestowing precious gifts upon him.
	He grew to boyhood and manhood as
other children do. This prophecy therefore,
did not refer, to Christ’s coming in the me-
ridian of time.

[Column 2]
	In Matt. XXIV we read that the minds of
the Apostles were troubled about the future,
and when he sat upon the Mount of Olives,
they came to him privately, asking him to
explain the things he had been teaching
them, saying “Tell us when shall these
things be? What shall be the sign of thy
coming, and the end of the world?”
	4) And Jesus answered and said unto
them, Take heed that no man deceive you.
	5) For many shall come in my name,
saying I am Christ, and shall deceive many.
	6) And ye shall hear of wars and rumors
of wars; see that ye be not troubled, for all
these things must come to pass, but the end
is not yet.
	7) For nation shall rise against nation,
and kingdom against kingdom, and there
shall be famines and pestilence; earthquakes
in divers places.
	13) But he that shall endure unto the
end, the same shall be saved.
	14) And this gospel of the kingdom, shall
be preached in all the world as a witness
unto all nations, then shall the end come.
	That the world would not be looking for
his coming, he plainly foreshadows, in the
parable of the Ten Virgins, with which he
illustrates his previous teachings. He ever
tried to familiarize their minds with the
fact that he should go away, but that he
would come again.
	His ignominious death follows. Suspended
between heaven and earth, on the dreadful
cross, he cries “It is finished,” or his mortal
career ended, and gave up the ghost.
	This is followed, by the unmistakable
signs, of the anger of an offended God, that
his Only Begotten Son, had been cruelly put
to death. His anguish is shown by earth-
quakes and darkness.
	The veil of the Temple is rent in twain,
bearing record, that with all its glories, it is
rejected as the house of God; that from
henceforth he no longer will visit them in
the holy of holies, nor heed their petitions.
Of what avail their boast of being the chil-
dren of Abraham, or possessing the Book of
the Mosaic Law.”
	An overwhelming fear falls on all those,
who took part in the tragic scene, blanching
their faces and chilling their hearts.
	Behold! Death is victor, the grave hath
won; the powers of hell hath triumphed.
		Watchman, what of the night?
	Darkness on the earth, darkness on her
children. Comes there no light?
	Lo! the risen Lord, appears unto the af-
frighted Mary, who becomes the first am-
bassador, of the Resurrection.
	From the door of the sepulchre, angels
have rolled the stone away, and the Prince
of Life, again stands upon the earth.
	The clouds of inky darkness flee, before
the illuminating rays, of a resurrection
morn. The graves of the righteous are un-
sealed, and walking into the Holy City, they
are seen of many. The risen Lord and his
Saints are ransomed from the power of
death.
	Watchman, what of the night? Seeest
thou aught? A glorious ascension! In the
sight of his chosen Apostles, the Mediator
between God and man, is taken up to
heaven. Missionary blessings and instruc-
tions he has left with them, with strict in-
junction, that they shall tarry in Jerusalem,
until the Holy Ghost shall be come upon
them, and they shall be endued with power
from on high; then he becomes invisible to
their sight.
	Still looking steadfastly unto heaven, they
see two men standing clothed in white ap-


[Column 1]
parel, who said “Why stand ye gazing up
into heaven, this same Jesus, which is taken
up from you, into heaven, shall come in
like maimer, as ye have seen him go into
heaven.”
		Watchman, what of the night?
	The Lord of life ascended; the promised
Holy Ghost not come. Now shall the dis-
ciples of the Bridegroom fast and pray, for
he has departed from them, and the cold
dark clouds of absence, fall over them.
Now shall the Bride mourn, watching and
praying for the lost one’s return.
	But over the city of David, dawns fair, a
Pentecostal Day. The believers gather with
one accord in one place. When, lo! a sound
from heaven, as of rushing wind, fills the
house.
	And there sat on each one of them, as it
were, cloven tongues of fire, and they were
filled with the Holy Ghost.
	The Comforter is come! The Witness of
the Father and the Son, to be companion of
those, who are loved of the Lord, until,
clothed in the majesty of heaven, he shall
come to earth again.
	The work rolls on apace. The Apostles
teach and exhort. Traveling far and near,
they call upon all men to repent, ever de-
claring that Jesus is the Christ.
	They make a history of Christ’s earthly
mission, leaving the record to be a guide to
the footsteps of men, unto the latest genera-
tion.
	One by one, they seal their testimony
with their blood. Other faithful disciples
follow them to the death, rather than yield
up the testimony of the Lord Jesus. Save
only one Apostle, whose chosen mission it
is to win souls to Christ, till he shall eome.
	Again darkness falls upon the earth!
	The authority to act in the name of the
Lord Jesus, has returned to the heavens,
through those who held it having suffered
martyrdom and death, in every imaginable
form, by the hand of violence.
	The believers struggle on, but their hearts
often cry out,
		“Watchman, what of the night?”
	The scriptures give forth an uncertain
light, in this day of gloom, or we but dimly
understand. Still the Holy Ghost forsakes
not those, entirely, who grope in the dark-
ness for God. Yet the shadows of night
have fallen on all the world, causing the
earth to groan for long ages.
	The Council of Nice has met. The brigh-
test lights of the existing Church, have de-
clared, that God is a non-entity; is incom-
prehensible, yet indestructible. All knowl-
edge of God is lost! Many go to and fro in
the earth, seeking the true God, and the old
way of approaching him, but in despair they
cry, in vain they call, O, Watchman, what
of the night?
	After a time a Luther arises, a Wycliffe,
a Knox, and a few shades of light, pene-
trates, the all peryading gloom.
	These Reformers with others, accomplish
much for mankind. The scriptures are now
within the reach of God’s children.
	In other paths, believers seek for Christ
earnestly desiring to discern the footsteps of
the Lord, but die, confessing they have not
found the way the ancients took.
	Then John Wesley stands forth, declaring
“All the world is my parish.” Earnestly and
prayerfully, he sought the way marked ont
by Christ, and his Apostles, but alas! in vain.
	As a great Reformer, he stands before the
world, and much light is given unto him.
A church is established, much good accom-
plished, yet with sorrow in the evening of

[Column 2]
his life he laments the sad truth, that he
has acted without authority, in the name of
the Lord Jesus.
	So the world continues on; one after an-
other arises, eagerly scanning the pages of
Holy Writ, feeling the certainty of their in-
sufficient light, asking again and again the
question, “Watchman, what of the night?”
until the early dawn of the 19th century.
	Then one was born into the world, with a
a destiny it could not read. He for a few
years walked in the path, that his fathers
had trod. But when the great revival time
came, and He beheld the spectacle, of the
ministers dividing the spoil among their re-
spective churches; some of the members, of
even his own family, joining one sect and
some another, the natural question, of which
one was right, and which one he should
connect himself with, enters his mind.
	Sufficient of the light of the Holy Ghost
burns within him, that he reads the script-
ures with an understanding heart. So he
decides to ask his heavenly Father, who has
said, “If any man lacks wisdom, let him
ask of God, who giveth to all men liberally,
and upbraideth not, and it shall be given
him.”
	The answer came, in an overwhelming
burst of light! The heavens were opened,
and two glorious personages appeared to the
boy’s startled vision; and one pointing to
the other said, “This is my beloved Son,
hear ye him.”
	An angel was sent from the courts of
glory, who announced that his name was
Moroni. That he it was, who had sealed up
the records of the Everlasting Gospel, and
hid them in the hill Cumorah; there to
await God’s command to, come forth. That
the time was now fulfilled; the set time had
come, quoting the first part of the third
chapter of Malachi, and all of the fourth,
differing but slightly, from that given in
King James translation; also some othr
scripture. The youthful prophet was in-
formed that these things were about to take
place.
	Behold the glorious rays of light, that
now envelope the sleeping world! Behold,
another Dispensation has been ushered in;
God’s voice had again been heard, speaking
to man!
	In the few succeeding years, the Church
of Jesus Christ is established on the earth,
with a promise, that it shall never more be
thrown down, or given to another people.
Prophets and Apostles again among men;
the authority of heaven restored again!
	People, few at first rally around the stand-
ard of truth, set up in the new century.
Men again act by the authority delegated to
them, by Christ himself.
	The world all in wonder, may well ask
“Watchman, what of the night?”
		O, the shadows are fleeing away,
		To usher in the perfect day.
	But the powers of darkness, which ever
assail the work of God, are brought to bear
on the infant Church. God has said, “in
the mouth of two or three witnesses, every
word shall be established,” and it came to
pass.
	The Prophet, as all his brother prophets
have done before him, walks the thorny
road of persecution.
	Dark clouds again lower; of his closest
friends, some turn to foes. He is assailed
on the right hand, and on the left. But
when the great need came, thanks be to
God, friends fearless and true, are raised up,
and the Gospel ship, steadily sails over the
turbulent, stormy sea.

[Column 3]
	Persecution is rife, yet the work of God,
goes on apace, ever guided by his unerring
hand. At length every blessing and key
pertaining to the New and Everlasting Cove-
nant has been bestowed on man.
	The powers of darkness, now make a fear-
ful onslaught; to destroy Jehovah’s work;
seeking at one fell blow, to accomplish its
overthrow; aiming at nothing less than the
murder of his chosen leaders.
		“O, Watchman, what of the night?”
	The pall of death has fallen; the Prophet
and Patriarch no more! Over lands far be-
yond the sea, falls a cloud of dread fore-
bodings. O, surely a terrible thing has hap-
pened! With crushing force, the awful truth
falls on Zion. O, ye who would give your
lives for his, be comforted! He hath not
left you comfortless; he loved you unto the
end.
	Now are dark days come; dismal and dis-
tressing thoughts fill fearful hearts. Amid
prayers and tears, hear the cry, “Watch-
man, what of the night?”
	Steady, be not moved. God’s work rolls
on apace.
	The blow that deprives the Church, of be-
loved Prophet and Patriarch, places on their
heads a martyr’s crown. Gives them entrance
over the portal, where are those who gave
their lives for the testimony of Jesus, im-
ages past. Now, two of the noblest of the
sons of earth, are ushered into their pres-
ence; where under the Great White Throne,
they join with them, in the cry, of “How
long, O, Lord, how long.” A white robe is
given to them also, and to them God says
“Yet a little while longer, until all shall be
gathered here, whose blood the world will
shed, for the testimony like unto yours.”
	O, stricken Church! O, weeping Saints!
What of the night, whose shadows so thick-
ly fall?
	Lift your heads, dry your tears, for God,
your defender, will deliver you; will lead
you safely through the troubled waters, and
plant your feet forever, on the glorious prom-
sed land. As he lead his children of old,
extending deliverance unto them, so will he
lead you. They were trodden down by op-
pressors; forced to make bricks without
straw, yet by his arm, were they delivered.
	“One like unto Moses, will raise up, him
shall you follow. By my hand he is direct-
ed, him shall you follow. Obedience and
humility are required of you, safety and de-
liverance your sure reward. Get ye out over
raging rivers, over burning plains, to a land
that I will show thee.”
	The stopping place is unknown; enemies
behind, who threaten dire destruction, the
broad Mississippi before, frozen over as by
the finger of God, that Latter Day Israel
too, shall pass over dry shod.
	The broad rolling plains, where roams the
wild Indian, stretch for hundreds of miles
trackless as a wilderness they seem before
them. What wonder that in anguish of soul,
they often cry “Watchman, what of the
night?”
	The great leader makes answer, in tones
clear and unmistakable, “Onward, we go
onward.”
	Highways are cast up, rivers are forded.
Some stop to sow and reap, while others
press forward, to find the resting place.
	And as of old, God went before, and was
in their rearward. The tender and weak,
grew tired and weary, and lay them down
to rest on the prairies lone and still: and
like them of other days, their mortal eyes
never behold Canaan’s fertile land.
		(Concluded on page 46.)


[Column 1]
WATCHMAN, WHAT OF THE NIGHT?
		(Continued from page 42.)
	But bound to them even in death, their
graves mark the trail of the sturdy pioneers.
The rising mounds serve as sign posts, to
those who journey onward, ever onward.
Lead by prophets and apostles they seek the
place, where they can serve God, according
to the dictates of their own conscience, far
beyond the boundaries of their fellow-man
By the shores of the great Dead Sea of Ame-
rica, they halt their journey.
	The prophet speaks “This is the place.
Here where the mountains, eternal sentinels
of heaven, ever stand guard, and the voices
of other ages are still echoing through their
waving pines, this is the place.”
	“Here shall the Temple stand. Here
shall the busy bees of Deseret rear the sanc-
tuary of the Lord, and the children of the
Saints shout Hosannahs to his name.”
Watchman, what of the night, dawns the
perfect day not yet?
	“Across plains and seas send my faithful
servants forth; this gospel of the kingdom,
must be preached in all the world as a wit-
ness, to all nations, then shall the end
come.”
	Messengers, thousands upon thousands,
go according to his word.
	In the mountain fastnesses, they plough
and reap: the busy hum of industry and life
rings through the valleys.
	Behold! The Temple stands, on its pre-
dicted spot, and Moroni, emblazoned in
gold, trumpet in hand, stands up on his ex
alted station.
	Watchman, what of the night? Delayeth
the Lord his coming?
	Prophets and apostles are sleeping in the
valley, heeding not the teeming, busy
sounds. Wheat and corn flourish, where the
sage brush thickly grew, and the sun flower
raised its wanton, golden head.
	Streams innumerable, burst from Nat-
ure’s reservoirs, hidden in the frozen bul-
warks, that surround this City of the Saints
	The capstone of the Temple has been laid,
while thousands shout “Hosannah to God
in the highest!”
	Over land and sea the gospel still is borne,
to them who sit in darkness.
	To Zion, sons and daughters gather from
afar; they would learn the ways nf the Lord,
and walk in his paths. 
	O, Watchman, what of the night?
	See ye not the morning light?
	“Not yet, hath the end come, butdraweth
nigh.”
	Thousands still groan under the oppres-
sor’s yoke, their souls in fetters bound. To
them shall the gospel come, they shall be
free!
	“Send mine other servants forth!”
Prisons may await you their doors yawn open
	wide,
But take your journey forth, though ev’ry ill be
	tide.
Death too, may close vour mission, Nature’s
	earthly sleep,
But crowns await the faithful, who their cov’nants
	keep.
A glorious one is given to ev’ry martyred one,
Whose jewels far outshine the glitt’ring noonday
	sun.
Lo! the appointed time, so long foretold is come.
When scattered Israel too, shall all be gathered
	home.
Lo! I am with you always, even to the end,
Though by the world rejected, yet my power I’ill
	send.
The gospel of the kingdom must all people hear,
Ere the end shall be and, in judgment Christ ap-
	pear.

[Column 2]
In Zion’s Centre Stake, the glorious Temple
	stand.
And Holy, Holy, be the name of all the land.
	O, watchman, say. what of the night?
		Dawns not yet the morning light?
	World. hear the Watchman’s sounding cry,
		“The perfect day draweth nigh!”
						LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matt.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	-	JANUARY, 1910.


THE PROPHET’S BIRTHDAY.
	The anniversary of the birthday of the
Prophet Joseph, Dec. 23, (born 1805,) has
been more generally observed throughout
the Church this year than ever before. It is
certainly a day that the children of Zion
should be taught to consider as ushering in
the advent of a new era, for although he
was a lad fourteen years old when he re-
ceived his first call from the Lord, yet the
time of his birth is nevertheless significant.
	He was destined to do a great and mar-
velous work, as is well known by all those
who believe him to have been called of God,
and certainly the children of the Saints
should be instructed concerning his origin,
his birth and his wondrous life and works.
Now, when almost all the people who knew
the Prophet Joseph Smith have passed away,
or are far advanced in years, it is high time
that testimonies should be borne concern-
ing him. In a few more years all who could
testify of haying seen him will have passed
over to the other side, and only history for
reference.
	Therefore it really seems very important
that the day of his birth should be honored,
for in the observance of it publicly, more
facts will be stated and information become
current among the people. Such wonderful
events as those that transpired during the
few years after he was ordained to the holy
priesthood should be strongly impressed
upon the minds of this people, and especi-
ally the rising generation. It is difficult
to believe that any man could endure what
the Prophet Joseph passed through and
maintain the dignity and sublime courage
that characterized every act of his life.
Even those intimately connected with him
marveled at the patience and magnanimity
he manifested towards his enemies and perse-
cutors. Such an example of fortitude and
true charity, forgiveness of wrongs can
scarcely be credited.
	There are no words in our language
strong enough to portray the sublimity and
excellence of his life under oppression,oppo-
sition, false charges, imprisonment and at
the last martyrdom, Verily it may be said
of him, as he himself said “he went as a
Lamb to the slaughter.”
	The monument to his memory at his
birthplaee in Sharon, Vermont, and upon
which is engraven a record that will last for
generations to come serves a worthy purpose,
but the rising generation should have a
record in their hearts of his nobility of soul
and loftiness of purpose, his endowment


from on high and his humility which was
like unto that of a little child. He had
great faith in the prayers of the children and
sometimes wept when they prayed that he
might be kept safe from his enemies.


PRESIDENT WINDER’S BIRTHDAY.
	The anniversary of the birth of President
John R. Winder, which occurred December
11, 1909, was fittingly celebrated at his
home in this city, by bringing together all
the members of his family, children, grand-
children and great grandchildren, and those
immediately connected by marriage. Presi-
dents Joseph F. Smith, and wife and
Anthon H. Lund and wife, his dearest and
closest associates were among the distin-
guished guests.
	It is a rare thing to be well and vigorous
at eighty-eight years of age, as President
Winder is, and to enjoy and appreciate the
good things of life, as he certainly does, the
society of dear ones, friends, companions
and relatives, old and young: such blessings
are only vouchsafed to a few. It is most
remarkable the amount of actual work he
can accomplish, attending to the duties of
that high and holy calling in the Temple,
officiating there daily, counseling, admon-
ishing and directing, and also in much of
the laborious part of work that devolves
upon those who stand at the head of the
temporal and spiritual affairs of the Church;
and reaching out, as the authorities do in all
directions, necessarily requires great physi-
cal energy and vigorous and active forceful-
ness, as well as the qualities of mind and
heart that must be called into strenuous
exercise, to bring about the results that are
apparent to all who are watching the
progress being made in the Church at the
present day.
	It is beautiful to contemplate a life so full
of good works, so rich in usefulness, and all
those substantial virtues and characteristics
that make for the highest and noblest man-
hood. A pillar of strength in Israel, a
power for righteousness and right livfng,
daily and hourly and all the time.

		“Age is opportunity no less
Than youth itself, though in another dress
And as the evening twilight fades away
The sky is filled with stars invisible by day.”

	The Exponent offers sincere congratula-
tions and every good word and wish possible
to man in his riper years, wisdom and
knowledge and every blessing here and here-
after will be the sure reward of such fidelity
and unreserved faithfulness to the eternal
principles of light and truth revealed in
these last days through the Prophet Joseph
Smith.

“Soul, in thine Autumn days have utmost cheer!
Spring hath no flower of flowers that can contest
The splendor of the hues upon his breast—
Who beareth up the incense of the years.”


A HOME WEDDING.
			“Hail! wedded love
	Perpetual fountain of domestic sweets.”
	On Thursday, December 23, 1909, the
marriage of Joseph Strauss Peery and Juli-
na Clarissa Smith (Ina) was solemnized
about 11 a, m. in the Salt Lake Temple,
President Joseph F. Smith (father of the
bride) performing the ceremony. Temple mar-
riage is one of the most beautiful rites in
the Church of Latter-day Saints, and most


unique in its simplicity and impressiveness.
	It is needless to tell our readers of these
two young people, as they are well known
and highly esteemed in this community, and
the hearts of those who love them, parents
and friends, go out to them in blessing and
prayer for a long and happy life together in
the holy bonds of matrimony.
	There was no show or ostentation connec-
ted with the marriage, but the best taste
displayed in every detail. The bridal pair
and guests repaired to the Bee Hive House
direct from the Temple, where a wedding
feast had been prepared and there was no un-
due formality in the arrangement; the guests
conversed while final touches were given to
the table decorations, and there was a re-
posefulness about the whole affair that put
every one at ease. Many fervent congratu-
lations were showered upon the bride and
groom and a feeling of love and good fellow-
ship was manifest. One can truthfully say
it was a home wedding, for the welcome
given to the guests was genuine and home-
like.
	To be sure, there were flowers fragrant
and lovely, artistically arranged here and
there, one can scarcely imagine a wedding
feast where there are no flowers.
	At the head of the table, the father of the
bride sat in his accustomed place and when
the feast was ready he pronounced a royal
blessing on the wholesome viands of which
the family and guests were about to par-
take, and upon the newly wedded couple.
There was no wine at the feast, and no hot
drinks were served, only the clear, sparkl-
ing water as a refreshing beverage; after all
had partaken freely came the delicious wed-
ding cake cut by the bride, and of which
generous slices were passed to all present.
	The writer joins with the many friends of
Mr. and Mrs. Peery in wishing them all the
happiness possible in their home-life, and
only such experiences as are essential to
the attainment of the greatest excellence in
family-life and in all that will prepare them
for celestial glory and happiness hereafter.
	In many respects the wedding would be
an excellent example for the young people
of the present day to follow. May their fu-
ture life be full of joy and such happiness as
comes from unity of purpose and mutual
love.

“But happy they, the happiest of their kind!
Whom gentle stars unite, and in one fate,
Their hearts, their fortunes and their beings
	blend.”


A GENUINE SURPRISE.
	A party of Relief Society sisters of the
Pioneer Stake, about forty in number, des-
cended upon the Cannon home, at Cannon
farm, the first Monday in December, with
the best intentions and the most delicious
picnic in baskets and boxes, all neatly
wrapped in tissue paper, and a good supply
of lovely flowers for decorating. Unknown
to Sister Annie W. Cannon, President of
the Relief Society of that Stake of Zion,
who was at the time busily engaged in her
household affairs, they entered without
ceremony, but with glad hands and smiling
faces, wishing her many happy returns of
the day.
	Sister Cannon was almost too bewildered
to appreciate the situation at first, but
there was no alternative other than to submit
gracefully to so delightful a compliment.
	As an expression of their love and esteem
the sisters presented their President with an


exquisite cameo pin and a handsome leather
satchel.
	Sister Claire Little Clawson, First Counsel-
or in the Relief Society of that Stake made
the presentation, in a few choice words ex-
pressing the good feelings of the sisters who
are associated with Sister Cannon in the
Stake and ward work.
	Sister Cannon responded in a short
speech of gratitude and appreciation, after
which refreshments, dainty and substantial,
were served, and a most delightful after-
noon was spent by those present. The sis-
ters who participated in the surprise were
the officers of the Relief Society of Pioneer
Stake organization and of the several wards
included therein.
	Sister Cannon has presided over the Relief
Society in that Stake ever since it was
organized.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY HEADQUARTERS.
	The Relief Society has established head-
quarters in the Bishop’s Building, No. 40
N. Main Street, Salt Lake City, just oppo-
site “The Temple.” The Society apart-
ments are appropriately and tastefully furn-
shed, there is a large reception room, fit-
ted up for regular meetings and general pur-
poses, for the President and Board of Direc-
tors, and the President has also a private
room adjoining, opening out of the recep-
tion room, for her personal use, and there
is another room adjoining which will be
suitable for entertaining and other puposes
also an office for the Secretary and the transac-
tion of business pertaining to the Society and
its interests, and another large room for
Committees and where the School of Nurses
hold regular sessions during eight months
of the year. The apartments are quite suit-
able, and it is very satisfactory to be able
to say that there is a place where the Relief
Society has permanent headquarters.
	It is the first time in all its history where
the General Society has had rooms for the
transaction of business pertaining to the
great work of this, the first and largest organ-
ization of women in the Church.
	The General Conference of the Relief
Society will be held, as heretofore in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall. At the Confer-
ence in April the sisters from all the several
Stakes and Missions will have an oppor-
tunity of calling at the new headquarters,
where they will be cordially welcomed by
the General President and members of the
Board, and in all probability an official
reception will be given during Conference
week, conditions being favorable for such a
social event.
	It is a matter for congratulation that
after so many years there is a suitable place
for those who come from a distance as well
as those residing nearer, to come and visit
the President and those associated with her
in the work that is so dear to the heart of
every member of this large and influential
Society.


THE HOLIDAY SEASON.
	Holiday times this year have been very
strenuous for many reasons; in this city there
were never before so many people, or so
much to see or to buy, the stores were be-
wildering with the array of useful and
beautiful things; and there were more enter-
tainments of various kinds and more allure-
ments to attract both young and old, aside 
from the home pleasures and work.
	Observing carefully all that was going on,


if that were possible, one would be puzzled to
know just what was the prevailing motive as
a whole. Salt Lake City is fast becoming
very cosmopolitan or commercial or both in
one, following the customs of the cities of
the world.
	The simple life has quite gone out of fash-
ion, except in word-music, and everything
in general is being done on a grand scale.
However we dwellers in this dear old Salt
Lake City have survived Christmas and New
Years’ with all the fuss and doings, and
probably most of us are glad it is over.
There has not been much of the spirit of
restfulness throughout the days or nights,
but a constant going to and fro in search of
pleasure or happiness.
	After all, this holiday season has been the
ushering in of a new year with all its won-
derful possibilities for advancement, for
progress, success and achievements, and we
know not what it may bring in its long train
of events and circumstances.
	The Church has grown to larger propor-
tions in members and in many other ways,
and in very many respects there is great
reason for rejoicing, even though there may
have been sorrows and tragedies during
the past year, as it were, yet while the
people of the Church stand united in all
great matters, aad the work makes such
rapid progress, the Latter-day Saints may
with assurance look forward with great hope
and trust fn God to the future.
	We are living today in the greatest dispen-
sation the world has ever seen, and the
events that are to transpire are only now
being foreshadowed; and therefore we must
expect strenuous times, and it behooves one
and all to be upon the watch tower
and bravely and joyfully help to
stem the current of evil; and maintain
the cause of righteousness, peace and
truth, and the growth of true knowledge
and intelligence at home and abroad. Great
responsibilities rest upon all the Latter day
Saints, men and women, none are exempt,
and therefore we must not grow weary in
well doing, and if a little help can be given
to others in the way of uplifting in word
or in deed it will add to the sum of life’s
treasures.
	A wise man once said. “It is not written,
blessed is he that feedeth the poor, but he
that considereth the poor. A little thought
or a little kindness is often worth more than
a great deal of money.”


[Column 1]
THE GROWTH OF WOMAN SUFFRAGE.
	In a very striking article entitled “The
Leaven of Woman Suffrage Around the
World,” published in the January Lippin-
cott’s. Mr. George Allan England says:
“The average American seems to have
hardly more idea about the magnitude of
this wave elsewhere than he has about the
mountains on the moon, perhaps not so
much. For any good telescope will show
those mountains plainly, whereas the capi-
talist press as a rule very carefully sup-
presses or distorts and ridicules the news
in re woman suffrage abroad. The limit of
knowledge of the average man barely ex-
ceeds this: that here at home we have four
states where universal suffrage prevails, that
there are vigorous demonstrations now tak-
ing place in England, and that ‘women vote
in New Zealand.’ Beyond this his informa-
tion is not likely to go, although his facile
criticism and ridicule might indicate a
broader scope.
	“As a matter of plain fact, that is not

[Column 2]
half the story. So rapid is the advance of
the suffrage wave elsewhere than in free
America, chivalrous America, that almost
before one can record it in cold type some
other new development turns up. Let us
just take a brief bird’s eye survey of the situ-
ation as nearly up-to-date as we can bring
it.
	“New Zealand, of course, we all know
about, where women meet men on terms of
entire political equality at the polls, and
where their influence has been so salutory.
	“Australia has not lagged far behind. As
far back as 1902 the so-called ‘Federated
States’ granted a full national suffrage to
women. Last November even the some-
what backward State of Victoria ceded. All
the women of Federated Australia therefore,
now enjoy full municipal, state, and nation-
al suffrage.
	“So, too, the activity in Finland, where
the suffrage was gained only three short
years ago, yet where the powers of evil are
already trembling in their boots.
	“Conservative England some years ago
here and there granted the municipal suff-
rage to a varying extent, and no observer
today doubts very seriously that the parlia-
mentary suffrage is almost at hand. The
projected ‘betrothal boycott’ and ‘marriage
strike’ ought certainly to have some weight
with perfidious Albion, if nothing else will.
	“Denmark succumbed last year to the
demand for municipal suffrage. At the
Copenhagen elections in March, the women
took an active part in the fight, at least a
third of the votes being cast by them. Ac-
cording to official statistics the election re-
turned 9,682 male councillors and 127 wo-
men ones. The battle is still on there in
true Valkyrie style.
	“Sweden has already capitulated. The
Riksdag has recently passed a bill which en-
ables all the inhabitants of the country, over
twenty four years of age, to vote. So the
unlimited woman suffrage is-there already
an established fact.
	“In Germany womankind seems to be un-
der a ban, so far as Old party politics are
concerned; but nevertheless they are in
great numbers adherents of the Social-
Democracy there. Once this militant party
attains the power which now it is reaching
out for, to the consternation of Conservat-
ism, its women can at once turn their ac-
tivities from the revolutionary party politics
of national affairs.
	“In Russia, Cuba, Spain, Japan, even
Turkey, the agitation is going vigorously
on. Iceland has it, too, and in no passive
form at that. The suffrage movement is
always gaining ground, never permanently
losing. Its outcome is, to my mind at
least, positively certain. As women are
forced out into commercial and industrial
pursuits, and are obliged by the growing
power of Industrialism to abandon the
home, ‘that sphere of woman,’ no other
possible outcome can result than just this
fight—and the winning of the fight. Behind
it are powerful economic reasons; and eco-
nomic determinism, though it grind as
slowly as the mills of the gods, always 
grinds exceeding small.”


NOTICE TO SECRETARIES.
	The Relief Society secretaries in the sev-
eral Stakes and Missions are hereby official-
ly notified that annual reports must be sent
in by the middle of February.
		Address	Emmeline B. Wells
			General Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
	A tribute to the memory of our beloved
sister and counselor, Mary Tyndal Baxter,
who departed this life November 24, 1909.
	She was born in Glasgow, Scotland, Feb-
ruary 12, 1826.
	When an infant she was stolen from her
mother and was raised by a foster mother
who taught her to read the Bible, fear God
and lead a good, virtuous life, therefore
when she heard the true Gospel she was
ready to receive it.
	She emigrated to Utah in an early day
and was married to John Baxter in the En-
dowment House in 1857 by whom she bore
ten children, five boys and five girls, seven
of whom survive her, two sons and one
daughter having passed into the spirit world
many years ago.
	In 1869 her husband died leaving her a
widow, therefore she had a very hard strug-
gle to rear and care for so large a family of
small children, but the Lord heard her cry
and blessed her and fitted her back for its
heavy burden,
	She, being a natural born nurse, was much
sought after by the sick and afflicted and
she did much good. At the first organiza-
tion of the Relief Society of the Goshen
ward she was chosen treasurer June 2, 1869.
She was also blessed and set apart as a mid-
wife and comforter of the sick, which call-
ing she labored in up to the time of her last
illness.
	In June, 1874, she moved from Goshen
to Spanish Fork, where in the year of 1875
she was chosen president of the Relief So-
ciety of that ward, and she labored in that
capacity until the fall of 1889, when she was
honorably released on account of her time
being so occupied with the sick, she
felt she could not do justice to both callings.
When the ward was divided into four in the
year 1892, she was prevailed on to be first
counselor to Sister Hansen of the Fourth
Ward Relief Society, Spanish Fork, and she
worked in love and union with the sisters
for many years, and she was known by old
and young as Grandma Baxter.
	The last few years of her life she has
spent mostly among her children, some of
whom live in Goshen, her old home for the
greater part of her time for the past five
years, but she could not content herself to
lead a quiet life but busied herself among
the sick and lent a helping hand as long as
she could. We have enjoyed her company
and good advice in our Relief Society meet-
ings. where we listened with much attention
to her good counsel, thrilling experiences
and strong testimonies of the truth of the
Gospel. She has done much work in the
Temples of God for the redemption of her
dead relatives and friends, and many will
be there to meet and welcome her for she
has gone to her reward.
			EESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call from onr midst our beloved sister and co-
laborer; therefore be it
	Resolved that we emulate her many virtues,
noble character and many deeds of love and
kindness that she so bounteously bestowed upon

[Column 2]
mankind, for she never gave a deaf ear to the cry
of the afflicted, but went out among the sick in
all sorts of weather and in the dark hours of the
night to give aid to those in distress. Therefore
we resolve to remember her as one of God’s
jewels and a true and faithful Latter-day Saint.
	Resofved, that we tender our sympathy to her
sons and daughters in the loss of so good a moth-
er; spread a copy of these resolutions upon the
records of the Goshen Relief Society and send
one to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.
	We will miss our dear, sweet sister,
		We can see her vacant chair,
	But she’s gone to her kind Father
		Who has blessings rich and rare.
				AMELIA GOURLEY,
				JULIA M. OKELBERRY,
				LUCY P. TAYLOR,
							Committee.


NOBLE WOMAN SUMMONED.
	Sister Julia A Bingham, president of the Gar-
land. Relief Society, wife of Sanford Bingham,
Jr., and one of the most highly respected and in-
fluential women of this community, passed peace-
fully away, Saturday, September 18, 1909, the eve 
of her wedding day, having been married just
forty-one years. The cause of her death was can-
cer of the stomach.
	Impressive services were held at the Garland
Hall, Tuesday, September 21, at 2:30 p.m. A
large crowd was in attendance. The Relief Soci-
ety Stake Boards of Box Elder and Bear River
Stakes, also representatives from the Relief
Society of six wards and a host of relatives of
deceased being present.
	Numerous beautiful wreaths and bouquets of
flowers were in evidence, and the stage curtain
was draped in white, with the words
			“At Rest,”
tastefully arranged in twigs and green boughs. 
The large, handsome casket was literally covered
with floral offerings.
	Bishop A. R. Capener presided. Singing by the
ward choir, “Resting, now, from care and sor-
row.”
	Prayer by Thomas E. King.
	Solo. “When we Meet on that Beautiful Shore,”
Mrs. Maggie Wixom.
	The following speakers spoke words of comfort
to the bereaved family, and paid a high tribute to
the character and exemplary life of the de-
ceased: Susana P. Booth, Louise Peters, and Emilia
D. Madsen, Presidency of the Box Elder Stake
Relief Society; Julia A. Richards and Esther
Evans of the Bear River Stake Relief Society,
Celia M. Grover, Margaret W. Manning, Laura S.
Rice, W. L. Grover, Joseph Jensen, D. E. Man-
ning and Bishop A. R. Capener.
	During the services Mrs. C. O. Anderson sang
the solo, “The Choir Invisible,” and Mrs. Eliza
Gleason read the following resolutions of respect
from the Garland Relief Society:
		
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To the memory of our worthy and beloved presi-
dent, Sister Julia A. Bingham, who departed this
life, September 18, 1909.
	Whereas, God, in His wisdom, has seen fit to
call home to another field of labor, our noble and
faithful president, causing us to mourn her un-
timely demise, and
	Whereas, we feel it a sore trial to part with one
whom we so loved and esteemed as we did Sister
Bingham, who always performed her work with
an untiring devotion, therefore, be it
	Resolved, that we emulate her noble character,
and exemplify her teachings. And be it fur-
ther
	Resolved, that we extend our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the sorrowing husband and children,
and that a copy of these resolutions be presented
to them, and the same be placed on the records of
the Garland Relief Society.
	The choir sang the anthem, “Beyond this
World of Sorrow,” and the benediction was pro-
nounced by Moroni Ward.
	The pall bearers were the Bingham brothers, as
follows: B. F.. John, William, Joseph S., E. E.
and Beason Bingham. The remains were intered
in the city cemetery and a large-cortege accom-
panied them to the graveyard, The grave was
dedicated by William King.
	Sister Bingham was sixty years of age, is sur-
vived by a husband, three daughters and one son,


as follows: Mrs, Annie Petersen, of Riverside
Mrs. Minnie Larson, Miss Lucina C. Bingham,
and Sanford H, of this city.
	She was the daughter of Mark and Melissa Hall
of Ogden who came to Utah in the fall of 1847,
Mr. and Mrs. Bingham were pioneers of this val-
ley, coming here to reside in the spring of 1895.
Deceased was chosen the president of the Relief
Society at the First Ward organization in Gar-
land, and faithfully filled that position up to the
time of her demise.
	During her prolonged illness their home was de-
stroyed by fire and she was miraculously rescued
from the burning building.
	In 1873, Brother and Sister Bingham were called
by President Brigham Young. with a company of
Saints to go to Arizona, to settle the country, and
while there, endured many trials and privations,
incident to pioneer life. While there, Sister Bing-
ham was president of the Primary Association for
many years, or until they were released by Presi-
dent Woodruff in 1891. She was a true Latter-day
Saint and loved by ail who knew her, for her
cheerful and sunny disposition; and her good
works and influence will live and the world is bet-
ter for her having lived in it.
			ELIZA L. GLEASON,
				Secretary Garland R. S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	Report of the Relief Society conference,
St. Joseph Stake, held at Thatcher; Decem-
ber 3rd, 1909. President Elizabeth Layton
and Counselors, all members of the Stake
Board, and a splendid representation from
the wards in the Stake were present The
singing was congregational, led by Mrs.
Effie R. Montieth, who also sang with Mrs.
Knudsen an appropriate duet.
	A program for the two meetings had been
prepared, which consisted of talks on differ-
ent themes relative to Relief Society work,
interspersed with a recitation from Sister
Emma Merrill and a solo from Miss Pris-
cilla Layton.
	We were honored by a visit from Sisters
Susa Y. Gates and Emma Romney, who oc-
cuped a share of the time and helped to
make it one of the most interesting and in-
structive conferences we have ever held.
	A peaceful influence characterized the
meetings, and all who attended felt amply
repaid for coming.
		ELIZABETH LAYTON, Pres.,
		JOSEPHINE KIMBALL, Cor. Sec.


MORGAN STAKE.
	The Morgan Stake conference was held
December 11, 1909, in the vestry of the
meeting house; it convened at 10 o’clock
a. m. There were in attendance from the
General Board Sisters Susan Grant and
E.S. Wilcox. President Daniel Heiner
and several other leading brethren were in
attendance. Reports were given of the Re-
lief Society work in the Stake by several
presidents. They reported the work about
as usual. There are some active members
but there are many who are not taking any
part, making our attendance smaller than
it should be. There were some encouraging
remarks from the sisters of the General
Board. After singing and benediction meet-
ing adjourned till 2 p. m.
	At 2 p. m. the conference assembled in
the main building with a fairly good attend-
ance. After singing, prayer and sacra-
mental service a talk was given by Malissie
Heiner, subject, “Judge Not.” Some fine
ideas were given.
	Sister Susan Grant is one of the few who
was associated with the Prophet Joseph
Smith. She bore a strong testimony to the
divinity of his mission.
	Sister Wilcox referred to the beauties in


nature; how true she is to all the details of
her laws. We have a good lesson in the
fidelity of nature to her laws.
	President Daniel Heiner made a few re-
marks, had been interested in our confer-
ence, and he desires to assist us in good
works.
	We have fine sleighing and as a rule the
people are able to enjoy it.
			ANNIE W. CLARK.
				R. S. Stake Secretary.


LIBERTY STAKE.
	Semi-annual Conference of Liberty Stake
Relief Society was held in the 9th ward
assembly hall, December 9th, at ten a. m.,
and 2 p. m., President Annie S. Musser pre-
siding.
	We had visiting us, Elder C. W. Symons
and Milando Pratt of the High Council of
Liberty Stake, and Sister Sarah J. Cannon
of the General Board.
	The soloists of the morning session were
Miss Kingsbury and Mrs. Eva M. James.
	After the opening exercises and greetings
by President Musser, reports were made by
the 9th, 10th. 31st, 33rd, Liberty and Immi-
gration wards; the organizations were reported
in a flourishing condition, and all the workers
in the line of their duty.
	Sister Cannon encouraged us to store
wheat, invoked the sisters to cultivate a spir-
it of cheerfulness when making their visits,
and remember the poor and needy.
	Elder C. W. Symons felt to endorse the
work of the society, encouraged the sisters
to continue in the good work, and not be-
come weary of well doing.
	After the closing exercises, adjourned un-
til 2 o’clock.
	Conference reconvened at 2 o’clock, and
after opening exercises, Doctor M. H. Can-
non delivered a lecture on “Heredity and
Environment,” which was instructive and
very much enjoyed.
	Sister Eva James favored us with a
solo.
	Elder Milando Pratt said that the words
of the prophets were being fulfilled and felt
that this society was performing a grand and
noble work.
	Elder C. W. Symons knew that we were
organized by inspiration, also knew that the
Lord was with us and would bless us.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon said, let us per-
form our work in the right way, and ever
be ready to do our duty.
	President Musser made a few closing re-
marks, and after the closing exercises, con-
ference adjourned for six months.
				LIZZIE ROBBINS, Sec.


[Column 1]
		SNOWFLAKE STAKE.
	Relief Society conference convened at
Snowflake, November 12, 1909.
	President Mary J. R. West presided.
Taylor Relief Society conducted the singing.
Opened with singing, “O ye Mountains
High.” Prayer was offered by President
Nina Porter, of St, Joseph. Singing, “Zion
stands with hills surrounded.”
	President West made opening remarks.
Welcomed all present and expressed great
pleasure in having Sisters Beattie and
James, of the General Board with us today.
Gave a favorable report of Relief Society
work throughout the stake. It was her be-
lief that no better band of sisters were in
the Church than live in our stake.
	A duet was rendered by Annie H. Kartch-

[Column 2]
ner aud Belle H Flake, entitled “I’ll Reap
What I Have Sown.”
	Sister Phebe Y. Beatie, of the General
Board, followed with instructions and en-
couraging remarks pertaining to Relief So-
ciety work. She related instances of grati-
tude and ingratitude. The Spirit of the
Lord is willing to enter the lowly home as
well as the palace, and delights in abiding
with the humble and pure. We should re-
joice in onr seclusion from the wicked
world, for the trials and cares of parents are
much heavier where there are great temp-
tations.
	Sister Miunie James spoke on the subject
of inspiration, the poor, our duty, the power
of prayer, the early days. etc. Said she had
desired for many years to come to Arizona,
and greatly rejoiced in the visit.
	Jennie and Thalia Kartchner then gave
guitar music.
	Counselor Emma S. Smith reported the
visits of the Stake Board and the condition
of the different Relief Society organizations.
The Board prepares outlines on Theological,
Mothers’ Work and Literary Lessons, which
are given at three of the meetings each
month. She reported what we are doing in
the nurses course.
	Ruth Shumway and Elizabeth Bates sang
the duet, “The Sinking Ship.”
	President Ada Owens, of Show Low, gave
an original poem.
	Choir sang “Love at Home.” Prayer,
May H. Larson.
	Reassembled at 2 p. m., President West
in charge. Singing, Prayer, Bishop Hunt.
	Sister Beatie spoke of the advantages of
the nurses class.
	Sister James said she was pleased with
the music and singing, and complimented
the young girls on being so willing to help.
She said the Prophet was a great advocate
of testimony bearing, and was glad to find
that we hold our testimony meetings month-
ly. She spoke also on tithing and the
society work.
	Miss Bates of Taylor sang “Dear Old
Girl”
	The General and Stake Boards of the Re-
lief Society were presented and sustained by
vote.
	By request Miss Shumway and Miss
Bates repeated their duet.
	A sketch of the Relief Society was read by
Sister Adelaide S Fish.
	A musical duet was rendered by Presi-
dent Ida Rhoton and Emma Greer, of
Shumway.
	Our Relief Society Stake missionary,
Elder W. W. Willes said he had taken
great joy in laboring among the sisters.
	Counselor Belle H. Flake spoke a few
words in appreciation of the visit of our
sisters from the General Board, and the
good time we had enjoyed together today.
	Miss Ellen Adair gave a solo.
	President Samuel F. Smith spoke a few
encouraging words to the sisters.
	Bishop John Hunt urged the sisters to
encourage their husbands to pay tithing and
perform all duties.
	President West said there was unity and
good feeling in the Stake Board. Bore tes-
mony to the blessings following the payment
of tithes.
	Sisters Beatie and James said a few
words, delivering the message of love and
blessings sent to the sisters by President
Bathsheba W. Smith and Sister Emmeline
B. Wells.
	Singing, “God be be with us till we meet
again.”


Benediction by Brother W. W. Willes. A
meeting was also held in the evening.
President West expressed pleasure in meet-
ing so many sisters.
	Sister Nina L. Porter reported St.
Joseph Society as doing well. The enroll-
ment is twenty-one, and a good average
attendance. We are kept busy with work
and doing all the good we can.
	May H. Larson reported the Snowflake
society.  There are sixty-three enrolled,
and a fairly good attendance. Spoke of the
lessons, prayer meetings, unanimous love
and faith of the sisters, etc.
	Phebe Jones spoke of the Taylor society.
Could not attend often, as she lived out of
town.
	Ada P. Owens reported Show Low society as
prosperous and growing. There is love and a
good feeling existing.
	Sister Phebe Y. Beatie of Salt Lake, spoke
so sweetly and with comfort and good feel-
ing to us. Related incidents of faith and
the power of God manifest in different
works. Was glad to meet us in this stake,
and pleased with our condition.
	Sister Minnie James, also of Salt Lake,
spoke of our work and said to have it well
distributed among the members. Men-
tioned the items leading to the organization
of the Society, the prophet and the labors of
Sarah M Kimball. Spoke of our Mother’s
Work Said it included all things of inter-
est to women. Told us how to manage for
the best advantage of all. She would al-
ways remember us in love and hoped to
come again.
	Sister Hap S. Hunt bore testimony and
expressed her thankfulness for the good
time we have had.
	Counselor Emma L. Smith expressed ap-
preciation of the visit of the sisters; and
gave some items in connection with the
first organization.
	Sister Adelaide S. Fish gave a few words
of blessing to our dear sisters, and knew it
was the good they brought to us that made
them see the good in us.
	President West made closing remarks.
Felt to bless us all, and unitedly we will
give our blesslng to our dear visiting sisters.
May we all prove faithful to our trusts, and
the peace of heaven be with us.
	Benedictioh by Sister Phebe Young
Beatie.
	ANNIE H. KARTCHNER, Sec. pro. tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Miss Helen Taft, daughter of President
Taft, has returned to Bryn Mawr and
entered upon her sophomore year.
	Miss Ida Lewis, keeper of Lime Rock
Lighthouse, and known as the Grace Darl-
ing of America, received Christmas gifts
from all over the country.
	Lady Frances Balfour and Mrs. H. J.
Tennant have been placed on the Royal
Commission appointed by King Edward to
inquire into the law of divorce and its ad-
ministration, especially with regard to the
poorer classes. Lady Frances Balfour is a
sister of the Duke of Argyll and greatly in-
terested in the woman suffrage movement.
She married Eustace J. A. Balfour. Mrs.
Tennant is the sister-in-law of the Prime
Minister, Mr. Asquith. It is curious that
one of the women Royal Commissioners
should be sister-in-law to the leader of the
Opposition, and the other sister-in-law to
the head of the government.—Ex.


[Column 1]
		AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
[LIFE AND TRAVELS OF NANCY M. TRACY.]
		(Continued from page 39.)
	The spirit of hatred and enmity seemed to
fill the hearts of the Gentiles towards us,
but still the brethren kept on working on
the Temple, determined ro finish it, and at
last succeeded, until the Lord was satisfied
and the ordinances were attended to during
the winter previous to their exit, for it was
again to our tents so we did not enjoy our
beautiful city, and Temple long, but it was
a fine structure to behold. I well remem-
ber being aroused from my slumber hearing
such heavenly music, everything was so still
and quiet when it burst upon my ears. I
could not imagine at first from what source
it came. I got up and looked out of my
window towards the Temple, and behold on
the top of the roof the band congregated and
were playing beautifully. The moon shone
bright and the music was delightful. At
another time a fire caught in the roof of the
Temple. How it caught I never knew, but
it seemed for a time that the building would
be consumed with the fire. Wells were
drained all around, and finally wagons and
teams with barrels brought water from the
river, men, women and children worked until
they conquered the fire, although the dam-
age was considerable. It seemed the evil
one was determined to harass the Saints in
every way, but the time was approaching
when again we must take up the line of
march, this time far away in the west where
white man’s foot had never trod, to find a
resting place among the red men of the for-
est.
	We were permitted to receive our bless-
ings in the Temple, in the winter previous
to starting out, the ensuing spring, on our
journey west. My sixth son was born
March 15, and our journey was delayed until
I was able to travel. I think it was the 1st
of June before we got started across the
river with our substance, what we could
take with us, and camped for a few days.
We had but one yoke of cattle, so we could
not take much with us, only our provisions
and clothes. Where we were going, we did
not know but go the Saints must and sacri-
fice their homes and their all to satisfy the
blood-thirsty appetites of our enemies. It
was the only chance, for the Saints to leave
and go into the wilderness, for they could
no longer live in Babylon and serve God.
	A few families of us, I think about ten in
all, commenced our journey. We were not
as yet an organized company as they were
afterwards organized. We traveled on un-
til we came near Council Bluffs, and camped
one afternoon on what we called Musquito
Creek. Our second son, aged eleven years
took his fish hook and line, as he was wont
to do when we stopped by a stream. He
fished for a while and came into camp with
a nice string of fish, and said to his elder
brother, “Eli, you can have these fish,”
then came to me and said, ‘‘O mother, my
head is so bad, it seems all on fire!”
	He was taken with a severe attack of
brain fever, so of course we had to stop
traveling. We did everything we could

[Column 2]
under the circumstances and exercised all
the faith we could, but he lived only twelve
days. There were four families camped
with us, but we were alone in the wagon
the night he died, with the exception of
Cousin O’Colvin and I had to mostly make
his clothes to lay him away in, and put
them on him myself. Brother Blodget made
him a coffin, so he was laid away in a res-
pectable manner, but alone in an uninhab-
ited country, except the Pottawottamie
Indians, a few French and half breeds on the
Missouri river about eight miles from our
camp. This was a sad blow to us and hard
to bear, he was a very bright and promising
boy. I had now buried three of my child-
ren, and had three left. I got into my
wagon after he was buried and wrote a few
lines as they came to my mind; they ran
thus

	Lochomens, your noble spirit has fled,
	And gone to brighter realms on high,
	Where pain and sorrow never come,
	While mortality lies mouldering in the dust,
	You were a dear and faithful boy,
	Unto your parents, likewise unto God,
	You loved to read His holy word,
	Your mind was old beyond your days.
	Sleep on, dear child and rest awhile,
	Ere long the trump of God will sound,
	To wake the sleeping dead
	In that happy resurrection morn,
	We will meet again, no more to part,
	To reign with Christ a thousand years.
	And Saints will dwell all robed in white.

	It was now the last of August. We made
up our minds to stay there until the next
spring before going farther, as there was
timber, and feed for our cattle by this time.
There were several families who stopped
here to rest. My husband put up a cabin;
also Brothers Colvin and Blodget built
small log houses for the winter, thinking we
would move on in the spring. We had not
much to live upon, as we had to leave all our
substance behind, only what we could take
with one yoke of cattle, but there was a
good many emigrants traveling to Califor-
nia, and we got some provisions of them
and put in turnip seed; they did well, so it
helped us out. Likewise our own emigrants
were constantly pouring into this place and
stopping to rest. Some went a few miles
farther on and stopped for the winter, and
that place was called Winter Quarters. There
were several families by the name of Carter
stopped with us, so this place was called
Cartersville, and before winter set in there
were about twenty families settled here and
built log houses, also put up a log school
house, which was also used for a meeting
house. It was about two miles from this
settlement where the Saints were called to-
gether as they were traveling, and a call
was made for five hundred volunteers, which
took all the able-bodied men and left the
old and infirm and boys to take care of the
women and little ones, All that have read
the history of the Church know all of these
circumstances, and how the Saints suffered
that winter. Winter Quarters had now be-
come a general stopping place. Little did
we think when stopped with our sick boy
that the Saints on their march would settle
in here and around about for the winter.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US


Susa Young Gates
									WOMAN ’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to letter the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 38.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, (MIDWINTER NUMBER) FEBRUARY, 1910.		No 7.


CONTENTS.
                                                                          PAGE
Birthday Celebration .....................................	49
Property Rights of Women..Mabelle S. Cole.	49
A Noble Woman Laid to Rest.........................	50
Address to the Relief Society in the British
	Isles........................Romania B. Penrose	51     
Aunt Zina, a Memory....Annie Wells Cannon	53
Ninetieth Birthday..........................................	53
“Thy Will be Done”................Celia A. Smith	54
Reorganization................................................	55
In Memoriam..................................................	55
Autobiography......................Nancy M. Tracy	55
Relief Society Stake Reports:—San Juan......	50
	Oneida—Juab.........................................	54
Editorial:—The Bishop’s Building.................	52
	Eliza R. Snow.........................................	52
	Editorial Notes........................................	53
Poetry:—Ship Ahoy!......................................	49
The World Builders............H. Rea Woodman	51


SHIP AHOY!
To Madame Caroline M. Severance on her 90th
		Birthday, by Ella Giles Ruddy.
We do not ask which for an ancient ship is
	best,
Reckless to risk grim seas or stay in port at
	rest.
Poised true to parry thrusts of Time: defying
	wrong.
Souls, unlike ships, ’mid storms, in their own
	might grow strong.
Through stressful years your sails to harsh winds
	have unfuried,
Of fibre firm they still face tempests of the
	world.
High causes you’ve espoused and bloodless bat-
	tles won;
Now armoured armoured for a cruise you stand at Set of 
	Sun. 
But back of it the Dawn for Womankind I
	see.
Six ships were builded once with prows of
	prophecy,
Stone, Blackwell, Severance, Anthony, Howe
	and Brown,
Not one of whose stanch masts can e’er be taken
	down.
You stay to bring to all “New tidings of great
	joy!”
Haste women voyagers to hail the Ship Ahoy!
					Woman’s Journal.
Los Angeles, Cal.


[Column 1]
BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION.
MRS. FRANKLIN D. RICHARDS. 
	January 3rd of the present year, witnessed
very happy gathering of friends. Sister
Jane S. Richards, the noble, untiring Relief
Society leader and worker of this part of the
vineyard, celebrated the 87th anniversary of
her birth, at the cozy home of her daughter,
Mrs. Josephine R. West of Ogden, where the
honored lady is peacefully passing her de-
clining years, tenderly cared for by a sweet
and devoted daughter and other members of
her family, loved and respected by a host of
friends, in a community where her very
name is held in reverence and esteem for her
noble qualities of heart and mind and the
great good she has accomplished. Truly
she is one of God’s noble daughters, whom
to know has been to love.
	Every reader of the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
knows Sister Richards as a pioneer of Relief
Society work and will join with us in wish-
ing for her as many birthdays as she may
wish to see. She was a member of the as-
sociation in Nauvoo and from the early days
of Utah has stood in responsible positions,
bringing her life work before the people,
who well, know of her sterling worth, her un-

[Column 2]
deviating, unselfish integrity to the cause of
Zion and who love her for what she has done.
For 31 years (from 1877 to 1908) she was
Stake President of the Relief Society of the
Weber Stake, being honorably released as
acting, but sustained as honorary president
on the division of that stake. President
Brigham Young had great faith in Sister
Jane, as he was wont to call her, and many
times talked over Relief Society work with
her, in fact he took her with him on several
occasions when traveling through the coun-
try and organizing the Relief Society in new
wards and places, realizing in her a master
mind.
	She was First Counselor to Aunt Zina D.
H. Young, the General President of the Re-
lief Society, and has traveled not only
through the Stakes of Zion, but several
times visited the east on important business
pertaining to the welfare of the people she
loved so well and among whom she had cast
her lot. Since Aunt Zina’s death she has
been senior member of the General Board,
where she is loved, honored and respected by
every member of that noble body of workers.
Nellie B., Ogden, Utah.

LOVINGLY INSCRIBED TO SISTER JANE S. RICH-
	ARDS ON HER 87TH BIRTHDAY.

Dear heart, in this thine eventide, rest thee in
	Love’s sweet bower,
While friends draw near and weave for thee—
	chaplets for one brief hour, 
While hearts and tongues are all attuned to com-
	fort and to bless,
Until the scene breathes forth of Eden’s peace and
	happiness. 

'Tis only in mortality, speech fails us to reveal,
For angels it is said speak forth the love and
	cheer they feel,
Oft we our alabaster box pour not o’er those we
	love,
Till their Gethsemane is passed, their spirits fled
	above.

This human is; yet we, within the Gospel’s glori-
	ous light,
Oft catching glimpse and sound from yonder home
	so bright,
Would fain lisp forth our love, esteem and rever-
	ence for thee,
And at this milestone crown thee queen of
	heaven’s royalty.

Full well thou’st earned the laurels which thy
	friends to thee hath brought,
From rosy morn, through heightening sun, thy
	willing hands have wrought,
The waning of thine afternoon, no respite gave
	from care,
E’en twilight found thee at thy post, the Gospel’s
	work to share,

As child, as maiden, and as wife, as mother, sis-
	ter, friend,
In every need thy worth was proved thy life
	works all doth blend, 
In one sublime, harmonious and beautiful, grand
	whole,
That well bespeaks thee, as God planned, a noble,
	perfect soul.

Thy trials oft have been severe, thy pathway rug-
	ged, steep, 
Yet with unswerving step you marched, nor
	shrank when wavea were deep,
Thy record, penned by angel hand, awaits thee
	up above,
Where, clothed with immortality, thou’lt meet
	with those ye love.
Thy day is beautiful to view, so too thy evening
	hour,
And friends delight to bring thee flowers of love
	to deck thy bower. 

[Column 3]
And as they gather close around to greet, to cheer,
	to bless,
May this sweet season be to thee one of true hap-
	piness.
And as the twilight deepens and the shadows
	closer creep,
May the angels chant thee vespers while they their
	vigils keep,
And may thy king, thy priest, thy lord, await
	thee by the shore,
To lead thee to celestial joys with Christ forever-
	more.
January 31st, 1910.			NELLIE BECRAFT.


PROPERTY RIGHTS OF WOMEN.
	At the outset it may be said that for cen-
turies past a distinction has been made be-
tween the lights of an unmarried woman
and those of a married woman. An un-
married woman has for a great length of
time been recognized as having the same
rights with respect to property as a man.
Upon her marriage, however, she has been
deemed to forfeit many of such rights, as we
shall later see.
	Personal property may be defined in gen-
eral as anything of value, other than land
or rights in land. For example money,
promissory notes, furniture and the like are
personal property. Women’s rights with
respect to personal property have varied
greatly in times past, and now vary greatly
in different states and countries. In early
times in England, their rights were deter-
mined by what is known as the Common
Law. Under the common law a married
woman acquired no interest in her hus-
band’s personal property, and upon mar-
riage the husband acquired the absolute
ownership of his wife’s personal property
when once reduced to possession. This rule
extended to her personal property acquired
both before and during marriage, and to all
of her earnings during mrariage. So long
as a woman remained unmarried, she could
own and control property substantially the
same as a man could. Upon her marriage
the ownership and control passed immedi-
ately to her husband, and his ownership
and control extended to such property as
the wife’s jewelry, household goods, cash in
hand, etc. Notes, checks and the like be-
came his, after he collected the amount due
upon them or sold them. Failing in this
they reverted to the wife upon the hus-
band’s death. Such was the common law.
But in very early times it was recognized by
courts of equity that snch rules were harsh,
and often worked a great injustice upon the
wife, and accordingly if the husband found
it necessary to resort to a court of equity in
order to realize upon his wife’s property the
court would aid him only upon the condi-
tion that he do equity. In consequence the
court would in such cases require the hus-
band to make reasonable provisions for the
support of the wife, and such court would
afterwards compel the husband to comply
with such arrangement under a penalty of
imprisonment.
	In this connection it may be stated that
at a very early date in England, courts of
equity recognized under certain conditions
what was known as the wife’s separate es-
tate in equity. That is to say, a means was


[Column 1]
devised whereby a wife’s property could be
held by a third person in trust for her, and
in such cases the courts would recognize her
right to the control and ownership of the
property. The recognition by courts of
equity of a wife’s right to own and control
property was the first step toward the en-
largement of her rights in this respect. Fol-
lowing the example of the courts of equity,
the various legislative bodies extended
women’s rights in property from time to
time, until the year 1860, when a law was
passed in New York State, wherein it was
provided that a wife is the absolute own-
er of all her property, whether acquired be-
fore or after marriage, and to her separate
earnings after marriage, free from interfer-
ence or control of her husband. She was also
given the power to dispose of such property
by gift, sale, or by will.
	It is gratifying to note that Utah has
yielded to the dictates of enlightened jus-
tice, and has awarded women the same
rights with respect to real and personal
property that are enjoyed by men. It is
provided in effect that the real and personal
estate of every female, whether acquired
before or after marriage, shall be and remain
the property of such female, and shall not
be liable for the debts, obligations or en-
gagements of her husband, and may be con-
veyed, devised or bequeathed by her as if
she were unmarried. Many of the states of
the union have been slow to extend wom-
en’s rights in respect to property, but in all
of the states of the Union, in Canada and in
England, rights in this respect have been
greatly enlarged. In many of the States,
and particularly the Southern States, wom-
en are limited in their rights to dispose of
property. For instance in a majority of the
states, a woman cannot convey real property
without her husband consents thereto and
joins in the deed. So also in many of the
States women are prohibited from selling
personal property without first obtaining the
consent of the husband.
	In limiting women’s rights in the owner-
ship of personal property, it necessarily fol-
lowed that their rights of control were great-
ly limited. In early times a married woman
could not sue for the return of personal
property nor for any damage thereto. Nor
could they bind such property by any
contracts or liens, except that courts of
equity recognized their rights to contract
with respect to their separate equitable es-
tates. In extending women’s rights in re-
spect to the ownership of property the legis-
latures have also extended their rights in
respect to the control of property. And as
has been stated, in Utah at the present time,
a married woman can dispose of her prop,-
erty the same as if she were unmarried. A
different rule existed at common law with
respect to personal property and real prop-
erty, or land, though the rule is the same
with respect to an unmarried woman’s right.
Upon marriage the husband would not ac-
quire the ownership of the wife’s land, but
he would acquire right to manage and con-
trol the same, and all the rents and profits
became his if he collected them, Upon the
death of the wife, the land descended to her
heirs. A wife could not sell the real estate
during her marriage, nor could she mortgage
the same. There was the further limitation
also that she could not contract with refer-
ence to her land, except in such cases where
it was set apart to her as her separate equit-
able estate. She could not deed the land
to her husband, nor could a husband deed
land to his wife. In the course of the de-

[Column 2]
velopment of women’s rights in respect to
property, the courts began to recognize a
conveyance from the husband to the wife,
where the same was made to a trustee for
the use and benefit of the wife. In many
but not all of the States, the old rules have
been abandoned, and conveyances between
husband and wife are recognized as valid.
	While we have seen that a married wo-
man’s rights in property have been limited
and subordinated to that of a husband’s,down
to a very recent period, still all the while she
has been recognized as having a special
right known as dower. At common law a
wife received an estate for life on the death
of the husband, in a third part of the land
which the husband had owned at any time
during marriage. Such a right is now recog-
nized in all countries which are governed by
the common law. And where the dower
right has been abolished by statutes, the
legislatures have almost uniformly enlarged
the rights. Thus in Utah where dower has
been abolished the wife is given one-third in
value of all the real property possessed by
the husband at any time during marriage.
In order to prevent the wife from asserting
this right upon the death of the husband, it
is necessary for her to join in any conveyance
of such land.
	While, as has been shown, the tendency
of modern times is to extend the rights of
married women with respect to property, it
is interesting to note that the general policy
of the courts in construing the statutes is to
limit rather than to extend women’s rights.
Thus a husband’s possession of his wife’s
property is deemed to be evidence of his
ownership, and if a husband collects his
wife’s earnings without objections from her,
or if a husband collects his wife’s income
and spends the same without objections
from her, it is presumed that she intends
such property as a gift to him. If property
is in the joint possession and under the joint
control of a husband and wife, it is presumed
that the property belongs to the husband.
	As a result of what has been said, it clear-
ly appears that the tendency in modern
times is to extend a married woman’s rights
with respect to property, and it is fair to
make the deduction that in the very near
future a married woman’s rights in this re-
spect will be co-equal with that of her hus-
band.			MABELLE S. COLE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
   	             SAN JUAN.
	Stake conferance of the San Juan Relief
Society was held at Mancos, Colorado, Aug-
ust 15th and 16th, 1909.
	There was in attendance Stake Pres-
ident Mary N. Jones, Sarah A. Dean, first
counselor, President W. C. Lyman, and
counselors William Halls and W. H. Read.
Sisters Sarah J. Cannon and Hattie Harker
of the General Board of Relief Society, Elder
George F. Richards of the Quormn of Apos-
tles and Jos. W. McMurrin of the First Coun-
cil of Seventy, besides a good many mem-
bers. The first meeting was devoted to the
giving of reports, ten of the society branches
were represented. Each Society in the
stake is in good running order officers
and members are united. President M. N.
Jones spoke at length of the storing of grain
and gave other instructions to the sisters.
Sister Hattie Harker spoke very touchingly
upon the responsibility attached to Mother-
hood, hoped the mothers realized that the re-
ligious training of their children was their
first duty, gave other very timely advice.


Sister Sarah J. Cannon reminded the mem-
bers of the diligance we should use in get-
ting the young mothers to join our association
There is no greater work than that of the
Relief society. Let us do what we can for
the support of the poor among up, and then
use our efforts to prepare for the future. De-
sired the sisters to remember when they
were in need of information they should go
to our home officers. It is their place to
instruct and counsel us. If we are giving
them our suppori they will be able to give
us what is needed. Sister Harker spoke of
the school of nurses that has been established
for the benefit of the sisters—desired us to
assist in swelling its numbers.
	President W. C. Lyman encouraged sim-
plicity of dress, advised the sisters to strength-
en their efforts in the storing of grain, in-
vited the brothers to assist.
	Brother J. W. McMurrin made very en-
couraging remarks to the Relief workers,
reminding them of the significance of their
cause,
	Apostle Richards spoke, emphasized the
keeping of the Word of Wisdom. The visit
of the sisters of the General Board are very
much appreciated they seem to inspire us
with new determination and greater zeal to
perform the work that is before us.
	BEATRICE NIELSON, Stake Secy.


A NOBLE WOMAN LAID TO REST.
	Haren E. Mortensen, born in Denmark, May 6,
1822, married in the year 1846 to Knud Morten-
sen; She became a member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in May, 1854.
In the year 1863, in the month of April, she, with
her husband and family emigrated to Utah;
crossed the plains in Captain J. F. Sanders’
company, walking the distance from Missouri
River to Salt Lake City arrived there September
5, 1863.
	Two of her children died on the plains and were
buried by the wayside. For a couple of years she
lived in Hyrum, where her youngest child was
born.
	In the year 1866, with her husband and family
settled on the bank of Bear River, when the Re-
lief Society of Bear River City was organized in
the year 1868, she was called as a Teacher, and
in the year 1877, she was set apart as first Coun-
selor to the President, which position she held
until six years before her death, when she was
released on account of her age.
	She died Jan. 29, 1910, and was buried Feb. 2,
in Bear River City cemetary. She was the moth-
er of 8 children; her husband and 4 children pre-
ceded her to the great beyond. Funeral services
were held Feb. 2, 1910, Bishop L. F. Johnson
presided. Singing by the Choir: “Sister Thou
wast Mild and Lovely.” Prayer by Brother Nels
Christensen, Song by the Choir: ‘‘I Need Thee
Every Hour.” The following speakers gave words
of comfort and paid a high tribute to the charac-
ter and exemplary life of the deceased: Coun-
selor Jacob Hansen, Bro. Ole Jensen of the Bear
River Ward, Pres. Peter M. Hansen, J. P. Chris-
tensen of the High Council and Bro. Willard S.
Hansen, all of Bear River Stake, Counselor Chris-
tine M. Jensen of the Bear River Relief Society,
Mary H. Fridal, President of the Elwood Relief
Society and Bishop L. F. Johnsen. Secrerary
Metta M. Jorgensen read the following resolutions
from the Bear River City Relief Society. Song
by the Choir: “Nearer, My God, to Thee.” Ben-
ediction: Counselor Ole Hansen. 
		RESOLUTIONS OP RESPECT.
	To the memory of our worthy and beloved
Sister Karen E, Mortensen, who departed this life
Jan. 29, 1910
	Whereas, God in His wisdom has seen fit to
call home to another field of labor our noble and
faithful sister who always performed her work
with an untiring devotion, therefore be it
	Resolved, that we emulate her noble character,
and exemplify her teachings. Be it further
	Resolved, that we extend our sympathy to her
children and that a copy of these resolutians be
presented to them and the same be placed on the
records of the Bear River City Relief Society.
			SARAH M. FRIDAL, President.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE WORLD BUILDERS.
				I.
They have builded, they have builded,
	Since Man Erect first faced the Light
Blinking, pallid, timid, broken,
	From the weight of the Nether Night;
They have builded a God in heaven,
	They have builded a God in hell, 
And for which God the shrieking died
	The Druid woods could never tell;—
They have builded prayers and Scriptures,
	Altars of fagots and fire,
Faith aud creeds and philosophies,
	Dead children of living Desire!
They have builded, builded, builded, 
	With Scripture and Battle and Trade,
And now, in sadness and madness,
	We cope with the things they have made.

(And what have the women been doing
	The heart-breaking ages long?
Cleaning the dirt from the doorstep,
	With Home for a scrubbing song.)

				II.
They have builded, they have builded,
	Nation, government and state,—
Laid the boundaries smooth in brotherhood,
	Then wiped them out swift in hate!
They have builded lheir courts of Justice,
	And flanked them with gibbets high,
And prisons and towers of torture
	Rank on rank ’neath the equal sky.
They have builded phalanx and cannon,
	Shot each other in serried rows,—
In a thousand meadows the daisies
	Have marveled at their death-throes;—
They have builded, builded, builded,
	With Scripture and Battle and Trade.
And now in sadness and madness,
	We cope with the things they have made

(And what have the women been doing
	The heart-breaking ages long?
Laughing light into false kings’ eyes,
	With Ease for a feasting song.)

				III.
They have builded, they have builded,
	Market places rich and fair,
And monster servants of commerce
	To hasten world-products there
They have builded of gold for pleasure—
	They have builded of gold for gain,—
Girded fast around earth’s greenery
	A glittering fetter of pain!
They have builded dike and trestle,
	Spanned the blue from shore to shore,
They have threaded the air with wires,
	They have ribboned the ocean’s floor;—
They have builded, builded, builded,
	With Scripture and Battle and Trade,
And now in sadness and madness,
	We cope with the things they have made.

(And what have the women been doing
	The heart-breaking ages long?
Bearing the brunt of their lovers’ lies,
	With shame for a cradle song.)

				IV.
They have builded, they have builded-
	Beauty in color and line;
Marbled their valor in battle,
	Sung of their loves and their wine;—
They have builded houses for drama,
	They have builded houses for lust,
And ever therein the woman name
	Is dragged through the brilliant dust;—
They have builded the things that are,—
	Possessed the fulness of earth,
Her honors and meanings and powers,
	Her hope, her strength and her mirth;—
They have builded, builded, builded,
	With Scripture, and Battle and Trade,
And now in sadness and madness,
	We cope with the thing they have made.

(And what have the women been doing
	The heart-breaking ages long?
Rearing the children of all the world.
	With love for an even song.)

			ENVOI.
Alone you have builded a world for self,
	You Men, as if the half were the human;
Did you ever dream what the world might be
	If you builded brain to brain with woman?
				H. REA WOODMAN.


[Column 1]
ADDRESS TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY IN
		THE BRITISH ISLES.
Dear Sisters:
	We have now entered into a New Year,
and may it be a happy, prosperous and pro-
gressive one to us all. Let faith, love and
charity be our motto, and through prayer
may the visions of our minds be enlarged
that we may grasp the needs of the hour
and have courage and wisdom to cope with
them successfully! If we open the portals
of our hearts we will, as a rule, see selfish-
ness enthroned, with jealousy, avarice and
ambition her nearest kindred, ever ready to
carry out her behests. We must not close
the door and try to convince ourselves that
these influences are not there. It is a daily
effort we will have to make to divest our-
seves of these evils, and if at the end of our
lives we are conscious that we have come
near compliance with the commandment
of “Love our God with all our might, mind
and strength, and our neighbor as our-
selves,” we will have done well and won the
victory; and we will be able to say with
Paul, “I have fought the good fight, and I
know there is a crown laid up for me in
heaven.”
	There are now over forty Relief Society or-
ganizations in the British Isles, with an aver-
age enrollment of twenty each, and an aver-
age attendance of ten or twelve. I am hap-
py to be able to say that union and harmony
and a desire to press on, in the good work
form the general report. We are blest as
women to have had this organization given
us, that we may learn the great principle of
working unitedly and in harmony for the
good of the whole. It is a grand lesson to
learn preparatory to joining the faithful,
obedient and harmonious hosts of heaven.
It is not blind obedience which is required,
but obedience through knowledge which im-
pels us through our agency to assent to the
Father’s will with all the fervor, power and
strength of the soul. Dear sisters, let us
search for and live by every ray of light and
knowledge we can gain in our daily walk
and conversation and our association in our
society, and encourage a worthy emulation
to have the best, most united and useful Re-
lief Society of all. The elders are speaking
in warm praise and appreciation of the help
and good accomplished by the sisters in their
society work, which is very gratifying to
learn. The missionary work done by the
sisters is not small, but with diligence we
can do more and greater works.
	Every child of Latter-day Saints should
have instilled into its mind that Joseph
Smith was truly a Prophet of God. The
great truths he brought forth were new to
this generation, and being an unlettered
youth, would have been impossible for him
to have thought of in his own wisdom. No
one of the greatest and best educated of
men in the hundreds of years since Christ,
brought to light any such principles or or-
ganized such a perfect Church as that of the
Latter-day Saints. We can know by its
fruits as well as the testimony of the Holy
Ghost, of the truth, that he was taught by
the angels sent of God and not by human
wisdom. Teach the children at the home
fireside as well as in the Sunday School, and
guard them as your most precious jewels.
Seek out the poor, the widow and orphan,
the sick and afflicted, and minister to them
to the extent of your means and by faith
and prayer and visits of comfort and cheer.
Give your pennies at each society meeting,
that there may be succor for the needy, and

[Column 2]
take pains to show that the poorest member
is just as welcome as the richest, though
she has no penny to give.
	I would ask all secretaries of the Relief
Society to be prompt to have their annual
report sent to me by the first of March, that
the full report may reach the Central Board
by April 1st. Let us bear in mind our
annual day of organization of the Relief So-
ciety, March 17th, and gather in our dues of
fivepence each member, as far as compatible
with circumstances. No one must deprive
or distress herself to donate to this fund. In
making out your financial reports be sure
they balance, or they cannot be used.
Blanks will be forwarded at once to all
presidents of conferences to be distributed
to each society.
	Every secretary of a Relief Society in the
British mission is requested to forward to
me at once particulars of any change of
officers during the year 1909, giving full
name, stating whether “Mrs.” or “Miss,”
the office held, and the address of the per-
son holding it. Immediate attention to this
is urgently desired.
	That 1910 may be through prayer and in-
creased activity a year far in advance of the
years now behind us, that the spirit of our
Lord may be with you all in great abund-
ance to strengthen you against evil and to
help in all good works, is the sincere prayer
of your sister in the gospel of Christ.
			ROMANIA B. PENROSE.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Harriet Stanton Blatch has sailed for
England, where she will make a study of
the English suffrage movement.
	Mrs. Alice S. Tiernan, formerly of Gal-
veston, Texas, was admitted to the Memphis
bar this month. She studied law after her
marriage, and is in practice with her hus-
band. It is said that Mrs. Tiernan is the
first woman lawyer to practice in the crim-
inal courts of Tennessee. 
	Mrs. Abigail Scott Duniway of Oregon,
Mrs. Emma Smith DeVoe of Washington,
Rev. Olympia Brown of Wisconsin, Miss
Jean Gordon of Louisiana, Mrs. Robert E.
Kirkland of Georgia, Mrs. Joseph Howell of
Utah, and Mrs. Clara B. Arthur and Mrs.
Huntley Russell of Michigan were among
the women appointed by the governors of
their respective states as delegates to the re-
cent great conference in Washington, D. C.
A writer in the Washington Times noted the
fact that they were all active suffragists.
Several were the presidents of their State
Suffrage Associations. They were given a
reception at 1823 H street by the suffragists
of Washington.
	In an interview recently printed Mrs.
Amelia E. Barr, the novelist, thus frankly
declared her attitude on the suffrage ques-
tion.
	“It was rather provoking, on our last election
day in Cornwall, to see absolutely ignorant,
swearing, brutal negroes voting on my
taxes, while I could not say a word.” She is
reported as saying. “Also I have had a boy
about the place who can neither read nor
write, who is not capable of learning leave
his work to vote, while I who know what
responsibilities are attached to the ballot,
who own property, and am in every way a
profitable citizen, must pay whatever these
imbeciles impose on me. I can sympathize
with the bitter sense of injustice women of
large wealth feel on the subject.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	-	FEBRUARY, 1910.


[Column 1]
THE BISHOP’S BUILDING.
	The very handsome and substantial new
building erected during the last year or so,
opposite the Salt Lake Temple, has recent-
ly been completed, and on Thursday, Janu-
ary 27, 1910, the entire building was dedi-
cated. 
	The Dedicatory services were under the
direction of the First Presidency of the
Church.
	Invitations in the form of a plain, neat
little booklet were sent to the guests. On
the title page appeared the following:
	“The First Presidency request your pres-
ence at the Dedicatory Services of the Bish-
op’s Building, on Thursday evening January
twenty-seventh, nineteen hundred and ten,
reception at five o’clock,
	(Signed) 		Joseph F. Smith,
				John R. Winder,
				Anthon H. Lund.
	The booklet contained a minature picture
of the building, with small photos of the
First Presidency, the President of the Quor-
um of the Apostles, the President of the
First Council of Seventy, the Presiding Bish-
opric, and the President of the Church
Board of Education, The President of the
Relief Society, and the President of the Y. 
L. M. I. A. and the President of the Prim-
ary Associations. 
	Presiding Bishop C. W. Nibley was
Master of Ceremonies. 
	All the doors inside were thrown open,
and those occupying rooms in the building
assembled first in their respective apart-
ments, and acted as special hosts and
hostesses. The banquet was served on the
4th floor in the elegant large hall precisely at
six p. m. 
	President Anthon H. Lund pronounced
the blessing. Five long tables were filled
with invited guests. The hall itself presented
a very beautiful apperrance, the lights the
flowers and the decoratlons of banners and
flags had been tastefully arranged with an
eye to color, beauty and symmetry, The
menu was choice and not too elaborate, and
the Master of Ceremonies was actively alert
in the discharge of the duties of his office. 
	While partaking of the choice viands,
the formal exercises of the evening began. 
First, a piano solo, Prof. J. J. McClellan—
then a brief address, President F. M. Lyman,
of the Council of Apostles, vocal solo, Mrs. 
Lizzie Thomas Edward, address by President
Seymour B. Young, of the First Council of
Seventy, piano solo, Professor E. P. Kim-

[Column 2]
ball, Remarks, Presiding Bishop C. W. Nib-
ley, representing the Presiding Bishopric. 
Vocal solo, Oscar W. Kirkham, brief ad-
dress President Anthon H. Lund, for the
Religion Classes, piano solo, Tracy Y. Can-
non, President Geo, H. Brimhall, of the B. 
Y. U., Provo, representing the General
Board of Church Schools in the absence of
Professor Horace A. Cummings, vocal solo,
Geo, D. Pyper, address, Elder H. J. Grant
for the General Board Y. M. M, I. A., piano
duet, Edna H. Coray and Orpah Walker. 
	President Bathsheba W. Smith repre-
sented the General Relief Society in a few
well chosen remarks, referring to its origin
and her connection with it from the first day
when it was organized by the Prophet
Joseph Smith, and gave some interesting
incidents of those early times. 
	Professor Evan Stephens followed with a
vocal solo, and Mrs. Martha H. Tingey, rep-
resenting the Y. L. M. I, A., spoke a few
words, manifesting her appreciation of the
location of the Association, and her desire
to help forward the cause of improvement
among the young women. 
	Elder Hyrum M. Smith sang, by request
that very touching hymn, “The Unknown
Grave.” President Louie Felt spoke very
feelingly of the primary and its work and
expressed gratefully the interest taken in the
children of Zion. 
	They hymn, “Come, come, ye Saints,”
—response by President Joseph F. Smith,
was very impressive and reminiscent of Nau-
voo times, particularly, and though some-
what emotional, full of tenderness and
gratitude. 
	The need of a Historian’s office, and the
Genealogical Society having better quar-
ters was alluded to by President A. H. 
Lund and created considerable applause, 
and also when President Smith, in his ad-
dress said the next Church structure con-
templated would be a Historian’s office and
Genealogical Society Building, which is very
much needed; altogether the speeches and
remarks were most appropriate, and it is to
be regretted that they were not taken in full
by a stenographer.
	The Dedicatory prayer, expressed in sub-
lime language, gratitude and thanksgiving
to our Father in heaven for all blessings be-
stowed upon his people; and the dedication
embraced every part and portion of the build-
ing; altogether the services were of the most
historic character, and the building itself
because of its beauty and perfection in
architecture, will be a standing monument,
memorable in future generations. 
	The services closed by singing “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet,” and benedic-
tion by President F. M. Lyman. 
	The souvenir booklet will be a reminder
of the memorable event in which so many
notable personages participated, which will
mark the occasion as one of the red letter
days in Mormon history.


[Column 1]	
		ELIZA R. SNOW. 
	The name of Eliza R. Snow is familiar
to all Latter-day Saints at home and
abroad and the work she accomplished, and
even more the hymns she has written will
make her fame a living link in the his-
tory of the “Mormon” people forever. The
one hymn, “O my Father,” would, if she
had written no other, keep her memory
green in the hearts of the Saints. 
	The sisters in the Church, young and old,
revere her memory, and accord her honor
and gratitude.

[Column 2]
	It has been customary for her friends since
her demise, to recognize in some way the
anniversary of her birthday. 
	On January 21st, this year, the Gen-
eral Officers and members of the Board of
Directors of the Relief Society met at their
new headquarters in the Bishop’s Building.
It was the first social gathering in the Relief
Society rooms, and only the members of the
Board were present. 
	A simple, but delicious repast was
served on the large, round table in one of
the rooms adjoining the reception room, the
only decorations being carnations and fern
leaves. When all were seated, the vener-
able and gracious President of the Society
called upon the secretary to ask the bless-
ing. While seated at table the company
engaged in a delightful interchange of rem-
iniscences of the lady whom they had met to
honor. 
	After the banquet the company repaired
to the large reception room where the pro-
gram prepared by a committee was rend-
ered, Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry conduct-
ing the exercises. 
	First, singing “O my Father,” piano ac-
companiment Sister Amy B. Lyman
	Personal Reminiscences by the President. 
Bathsheba W. Smith, who gave a charm-
ing account of her introduction and first ac-
quaintance with “Sister Eliza,” the cele-
brated poet and author. Sister Smith nee
Miss Bigler, knew of her celebrity as a con-
tributor to the “Quincy Whig” a popular
newspaper in those early times of woman
newspaper writers—she described her dress,
lace veil, mitts, etc,, the fine embroidery
being her own handiwork; and at the party
or gathering where they both attended, they
were escorted by two brothers, Frank and
Chancy Higbee, fine young men. Altogether
the remembrances given by Sister B. W. 
Smith were pleasing and savored of the
early days in Nauvoo. 
	Reading from Sister Eliza’s poems by Sis-
ter Clarissa S. Williams came next and was
well chosen. It was a selection from Volume
II, entitled “Confidence.”
	Thoughts about Sister Eliza R. Snow, by
Sister Jane S. Richards, who was not pres-
ent, but sent a message saying that Sister
Eliza had been everything to her, and she
joined with us in honoring her memory. 
	Question: “What particular trait in Sister
Eliza’s character appeals most to you? an-
swered by Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon, “Her
implicit faith in the Gospel, endurance and
fortitude under trials, her great nobility and
grandeur of character and remarkable mor-
al courage in standing true to her convic-
tions, even if she stood alone.”
	“Sentiment from Poem,” Sister Carrie S. 
Thomas gave a few lines from the poem,
“Evening Thoughts, or What it is to be a
Saint.”

	“It is no trifling thing to be a Saint
	In very deed, to stand upright nor bow,
	Nor bend beneath the heavy pressure of
	Oppressiveness, to stand unscathed amid
	The raging storm of persecution, ete.”

	The next on the program, “Relate, some
striking characteristics of Sister E. R.
Snow,” by Sister Julina L. Smith—who was
not present, and therefore excused. 
	Question: ‘‘Do you consider Sister Eliza’s
character unique among ‘Mormon’ women?”
Sister Emily S. Richards. Her remarks
were mostly relative to her acquaintance
with Sister Eliza in her young married life,
the encouragement she had given her to
enter public affairs, and also to make use of
spiritual gifts and blessings.


[Column 1]
	“Personal reminiscences” by Aunt Emm.
Wells, who gave a few rather uncommon
bits of ancient history, and read an original
poem written for the occasion, “A Quest and
Message.”
	“Reading from poems, Sister Elizabeth
S. Wilcox—“Bury me Quietly when I Die,”
which Sister Eliza wrote purposely for her
funeral services. It was set to music and
sung at the funeral.
	“Do you not think Sister Eliza was an
ideal Priestess in the House of the Lord?”
Sister Emma S. Woodruff. The response
was brief, but in substance she  gave her
views of the woman as very devotional with
most exalted ideas and sentiments and in-
tensely religious, certainly expressing an
ideal Priestess.
	“Sentiment from Poems,” Rebecca N.
Nibley, who was excused, being absent.
	“Reminiscences,” Sister Susan Grant, who
gave personal recollections of old times of
traveling with Sister Eliza across the plains
in 1847— and the winter following, when
they lived in the fort on Pioneer Square.
	“Aunt Eliza in the Lion House,” Phebe
Young Beatie who gave very amusing inci-
dents about the life of the children in that
famous home, of her girlhood, of Aunt
Eliza helping with motherless little ones, the
descriptions were vivid, and graphically
told.
	“Sentiment from Poems,” Sister Minnie
James. The poem she had selected had
been given by Sister Wilcox, and therefore
she would refer to her intimate association
with Sister Eliza, her frequent visits to her
mother at their old home and gave one very
remarkable instance of the gift of healing
when she was very much afflicted and had
been instantly healed. Sister Eliza and
some of the other sisters, whose names she
mentioned, administered to her.
	“What particular work of Sister Eliza’s did
most for women?” Sister Julia P. M. Farns-
worth.
	After summing up the many lines of work
Sister Eliza engaged in for the benefit of
woman and humanity, Sister Farnsworth
gives the following as the greatest:
	“Sister Eliza’s every effort, all her talents
were directed and dedicated to the spread of
the Gospel, to give light and strength to
God’s children in need of spiritual food.
Therefore, she has left to us a heritage, an un-
sullied record, an unimpeachable testimony
of her sublime faith of far greater value than
any other gifts, or all other attainments the
world can ever bestow.”
	“Sentiment from Poems,” Sister Harriet
B. Harker, another absent member.
	“As I remember Aunt Eliza,” Sister Alice
Merrill Horne, who gave vivid recollections
of Aunt Eliza’s frequent visits to the Histor-
an’s office, (the home of her grandmother, 
our General President) and calling on Aunt
Eliza in the Lion Houee with messages from
her grandmother; her encouragement of
faith in the children who had a little Juve-
nile Society in the Historian’s Office, of
which she was President; related some of
the experiences demonstrating Aunt Eliza’s
faith in their gifts and powers of adminis-
tering to the sick.
	“Did you ever associate Sister Eliza with
the home life, or was it always as a public
woman that she appealed to you?” Sister
Priscilla P. Jennings, referred to Sister Eliza
with great reverence, and one apart from do-
mestic life; thought her very spiritual, a
Temple worker, one given to sacred things,
like Bible characters, like Mary and Martha,
compared her to Mary, who would rather sit

[Column 2]
at the feet of the Savior and listen to him;
considered her another Mary more than a
Martha. She had often urged her to do
more in the Relief Society, and she some-
times wished Sister Eliza had children and a
family, then she would realize the care of
home.
	“Sentiment from poem,” Sister Amy Ly-
man had a quotation on “Courage,” but the
hour was late and she was excused.
	“What do you consider Sister Eliza’s
greatest gifts,” Sister Annie K. Hardy.
From her remarks we judge that she con-
sidered faith her strongest anchor. Sister
Hardy related some instances of her comfort-
ing her mother in a time of sad bereave-
ment and spoke most interestingly of this
great and grand woman.
	“Recollections,” Sister Annie Wells Can-
non. She could not remembea a time when
she dtd not know Aunt Eliza, and held her
in reverence, associated with Mother Whit-
ney, Aunt Zina and Sister Horne, who were of
ten at her home in her childhood, and after-
wards came almost daily to the Exponent of-
fice, told of her great love for all of them, of
Aunt Eliza’s numerous kindnesses and men-
tioned the early Retrenchment meetings
when she was a very little girl at Sister
Elizabeth L. Thomas’s in the 13th ward
when Sister Eliza had made a wonderful
impression upon her.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry made a few
remarks upon the success of the party and
the sisters sang “Praise to the man who
communed with Jehovah.” Benediction by
President Bathsheba W. Smith.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The illness of President John R. Winder
has kept the people in suspense for some
time past, yet the Saints have been hopeful
of his recovery and exercising their utmost
faith in his behalf, for the people love him
devotedly, and now that there is almost a
surety of his soon being well enough to re-
sume his duties, and his place in the Salt
Lake Temple, where he has so faithfully
officiated for so many years, the Saints
are rejoicing at the prospect of seeing his
cheerful countenance again. President
Winder is very dear to the hearts of this
people, and there will be a warm welcome
everywhere for him when he can come
among the people. It seems very apparent
that the Lord has yet a great work for him
to do here upon earth; his life altogether has
been a most remarkable one. rich in good
works and full of prophetic significance.
	The visit of Bishop David A. Smith to
the Hawaiian Islands, whither he went so
soon after his recent illness that the people
interested in him scarcely knew he was out,
has been a very pleasant trip, both on sea and
on land. His object in going was to bring
home his brother Wesley, who had been fill-
ing a mission the last two years and more,
and had been seriously ill of late with ty-
phoid fever; and it was thought advisable to
bring him home. The mother, Sister Jul-
ina L. Smith, accompanied her son David,
and as she is familiar with the language,
she will be sure to help the Relief Society
over there, and at any rate give them advice
and encouragement, although we are aware
they are really not much behind us at home,
even if they do labor under great disadvant-
ages. The home coming of Sister Julina
Smith and her two sons will be a joyful
event at the Bee Hive House, and no doubt
they have enjoyed their little respite from
home cares and business.


AUNT ZINA—A MEMORY.

		"Ask God to give thee skill
			In comfort’s art.
		That thou may'st consecrated be
			And set apart
		Unto a life of sympathy;
		For heavy is the weight of ill
			In every heart,
		And comforters are needed much
			Of Christ-like touch.”

	It was the last day of January. The day
had seemed unusually long and cold and
busy, but now night with its blessed quiet
and silence  had come. The home was
hushed and dark save for the warm glow of
the coals on the hearth. As the shadows flit-
ted across the walls, and the breaking of the
coals fell into fantastic shapes, slowly the
pages of memory’s book unfolded, and the
saintly presence of dear Aunt Zina Young
pervaded the place. Yes, this was her
birthday! Thoughts, sweet thoughts of her
flew thick and fast. Was there sickness?
Was there sorrow? Then she always came.
Softly, gently would she step into the room,
place her kind, warm hand on the drooping
shoulders and whisper, “Do not weep, be not
cast down, be not afraid, have faith and
trust in God.” Her oval face with its fresh,
girl-like complexion, her clear, round eyes
with their child-like expression, made her
beautiful to behold, while her motherly
tenderness and sympathy instilled new faith,
and her very presence was like a ray of
golden sunshine. No voice more gentle, no
step more light, no touch more tender. How
she cheered the sorrowful, lifted up the
down-hearted, lightened the path of the
weary, wiped away the bitter tears, strewed
bright flowers of sunshine and of love all
along life’s path.
	O blessed mother in Israel! How green
will ever be your memory in the hearts and
homes of Zion, for the thousands of gentle
ministrations to the sick, the afflicted, the
desolate, the bereft.
	She it was who never hesitated, never
faltered, never wavered when she heard the
cry for help, but came cheerfully and gave
bountifully of her treasures.
	Her love was like the perfume of the rose
diffusing fragrance everywhere.
	The shadows faded; the embers died upon
the hearth and something seemed to whis-
per, “May the incense and the fragrance of
such a life be reincarnated and scattered
again along life’s thorny pathway.
			ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


NINETIETH BIRTHDAY.
CAROLINE M: SEVER NCE.
	The lady writes a personal letter to the
Boston Woman"s Journal of her 90th birth-
day. Mrs. Severance has been well known
to us and to all women in public life for
many years. She is living now in Los
Angeles, California, but was for many years
in Boston, where she was quite celebrated in
literary work and one of the foremost in the
advancement of both men and women for
the public good, in those early times, with
Emerson, Whittier, Margaret Fuller, Louise
Alcott and other eminent people.
	Her birthday was December 12, 1909, and
was kept at her own home on that day in
Los Angeles, where members of her family
came all the way from Boston to be present
also a favorite cousin came from St. Paul;
there were greetings and tributes by tele-
phone and pen, and in the annex to her
library, a perfect bower of bloom and fra-
grance of the rarest flowers California pro-
duces.


The Club in Los Angeles celebrated on 
the 14th, many distinguished guests being 
present, among them Mrs. Lucretia Garfield, 
some from New York City, poems, letters, 
flowers, birthday cakes, speeches, toasts all 
that love and reverence could do to honor 
this veteran woman. 
	Again her Christmas was glorified by the 
happy faces of sons and relatives around the 
festive board, and at the beautiful tributes 
of Christmas remembrances, useful, orna-
mental and unique, calendars, cards, tokens 
and skilled needlework by loving fingers. 
Notable volumes, Reminiscences, Memories, 
Kate Douglas Wiggins’ latest, and H. G.
Wells’ first and last things autographed, 
brilliant bouquets and flowering plants 
made a brilliant setting. 
	Mrs. Severance closes her delightful letter 
from which I have culled these extracts with 
the following paragraph:
	“Pray think of me as encircled and pro-
tected in an atmosphere which is a continual 
caress of sweet tenderness; but looking out 
upon a world of wrong and misery, which 
the justice of “Man, the Social Creator, 
should remedy without delay.”—Dated Jan.
25, 1910.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		“THY WILL BE DONE.”
	There is a matter of great importance
that I would like to call the attention of my
sisters to, and that is, the necessity of be-
ing willing to say “Thy will be done,” when
we pray; and will tell you of some circum-
stances that have come under  my own ob-
servation.
	Years ago, while teaching a class of little
ones in Sunday School, a well-developed
girl about eighteen years of age came with
them, but never answered a question, for
she had no intellect. She had rosy cheeks
and her eyes were bright—in a way—but she
had no mind.
	It was my custom to visit the mothers of
the children in my class, and while so doing
the mother of this girl told me about her.
She said: “When this girl was a little child
she had a very sick spell and seemed likely
to die, but she was bright and winsome and
I felt that I could not give her up, and that
God would be very unkind to take her from
me. I was not willing to pray ‘Thy will be
done,’ but insisted that the child should be
spared to me.” And she added, “My prayer
was answered; the child was spared, but her
intellect was taken, and this has been my
punishment ever since.” She said they
never dared to leave the girl alone nor to let
her go any place alone, as they never knew
what might happen, for though she was well
developed physically, she had no mind and
no intelligence.
	Here is another circumstance which has
just come to my knowledge while taking
care of a family all down with the measles.
A boy nine years old was almost helpless,
even when well. He could not raise him-
self nor turn over in bed, and could not talk
plain, nor read, nor walk without falling,
and there was no chance that he would ever
be like other children. I asked his mother
one day if he had always been that way,
and she said, “No, only since a spell of
typhoid fever that he had five years ago.”
I said to her, “When you prayed that he
might recover did you insist that he be
spared to you?" Her reply was, “Yes, but
I would never do it again. I thought then
that I could not give him up.”
	I have often thought since knowing of the

[Column 2]
first case, that no matter how great the trial,
I would never dare to insist that my own
will should be granted, and I beg of you my
sisters, to consider this matter well, and to
warn other mothers whose little ones may
be sick, before it is too late. No matter
how great the trial may be to part with the
little ones, it is far better to allow our Heav-
enly Father to take them home if He wishes
to do so, than to keep them here in bondage
by our wilful demands, and thus bring years
of punishment not only on ourselves but on
the child also.
	When I see children so afflicted I often
wonder if the parents are to blame by reason
of their wilful prayers. You know “the sins
of the parents shall be visited upon the chil-
dren.”
	We may pray as earnestly as we wish,
that the child may be spared, or for any
other blessing, but must always be willing
to add, “Nevertheless, not my will but thine
be done.” Then we are on the safe side,
and if our Heavenly Father thinks best to
leave the child with us it will doubtless grow
up in proper condition, both physically and
mentally.
				CELIA A. SMITH.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
			ONEIDA STAKE.
	On October 30, 1909, at Preston, Idaho,
the Oneida Stake Relief Society met in a
semi-annual conference, with President
Louisa B. Benson presiding.
	One member of the Stake Board excused.
Singing. Minutes. Singing. Organizations
represented.
	Address of welcome, counselor Hannah
Mickelson.
	A report of the late General Relief Society
Conference was given by President Benson.
The principal subjects were care of children,
home sanitation, business methods in the
home, and home manufacture. Special at-
tention was drawn to President Joseph F.
Smith’s earnest desire for the welfare of our
children, and his exhortation to prayerfully
and watchfully care for them.
	The following organizations reported their
meetings held regularly, average attend-
ance increasing. Mother’s work successful,
sick and needy taken care of—Clifton, Fair-
view, Franklin, Oxford Whitney, the four
wards of Preston and Weston, all except-
ing the last six named, have their wheat
well cared for in granaries, those having sold
have their money out at interest. The last
named has 25 bushels in granary, the bal-
ance of money out at interest. All branches
reported as ready to begin the new outlines
for mother’s work in January.
	Organ solo, Jennie Tanner.
	Stake Treasurer’s report read and ap-
proved.
	President L. B. Benson spoke on punc-
tuality, the uses of an emergency box, car-
ing for and storing of wheat, also the visits
of our local sisters to the Y. L. M. I. A.
and Primary Associations. Advised each
society to select at least six sisters to act as
leaders in the mother’s work, these sisters to
be changed two at a time every six
months.
	Singing, and benediction by A. M. Mc-
Neil.
	Afternoon session: Singing. Prayer. Sing-
ing. Report of the year’s work of the Re-
lief Society of the Stake given by Linda
N. Benson. The General and Local officers

[Column 2]
were unanimously sustained. The following
sisters were sustained to assist the Relief
Society Stake Board: Esther C. Rogers,
Millie Golightly, Chloe Howell, Margaret
Dunkley, Addie Love, and Sarah Fjelsted.
A lecture on “Our boys and girls” was
given by Stake President of the Y. L. M. I.
A. Luella S. Cowley; the principal topics
treated were, religious training, our child’s
consultation in home affairs, gaining the
love and confidence of children.
	Response, Mary Henderson.
	Vocal duet, Sisters Thomas and Johnson.
	A lecture, “Our Little Ones,” was given
by Lucy D. Cutler, Stake President of the
Primary Association. Topics treated, Prim-
ary work, assisting the children to love the
Gospel. Sister Cutler sang “Our Work is
with the Children.”
	Response, Sister Barbara Ballif.
	Elder Joseph Belnap spoke on “How we
should conduct our iives.”
	President George C. Parkinson spoke on
the study of our children’s dispositions, our
teachings to them, influence of a good
home, and invoked the blessings of God on
the mothers.
	Solo, Myrtle Brimhall.
	President Louisa B. Benson made closing
remarks and prayed the mothers would try
to better their lives.
	Singing, “May we know the joyful
sound.” Benediction President George C.
Parkinson.
		PHEBE A. M. MCNEIL. Sec.
			JUAB STAKE.
	Minutes of a conference of the Juab Stake
Relief Society held in the Tabernacle Sep-
tember 17, 1909, President Unity Chappell
presiding. President Chappelle said she
was pleased to meet with the sisters in an-
other conference, and while there were but
few, she felt we would have a good time,
for the Lord had promised that where few
meet in His name there He would be to
bless them. She was grateful to the Bishops
for their presence and for the visiting sisters,
Emma S. Woodruff and Minnie H. James,
whom she knew would be glad to be here.
Stated all the wards had been represented
but one. Prayed the choicest blessings on
all.
	President Sarah A. Cazier reported the
First Ward of Nephi as being in a prosper-
ous condition; paid a great tribute to the
teachers and her board in general; stated
they had sold their wheat, and in doing so
they had made 230 bushels of wheat, and
they were always on the alert to have the
wheat in the bins and not the money. She
tried always to take care of everything. She
was well pleased with her Bishop, he was a
good, kind father to her, and they worked in
unity and love.
	President Elizabeth Bigler prayed that the
Spirit of God would be with her to give a
correct report of the Second Ward of Nephi.
She thought they had a noble band of work-
ers, and were doing good wherever they
could. President Mortensen reported the
Levan Ward.
	Choir sang: “Home, Sweet Home.”
	Sister Woodruff said she had traveled a
great deal but had never had the privilege
of meeting with the sisters here before. She
had raised her family and was now raising
children of her son who died in Mexico. She
felt our first duties were to our husbands and
our home and children, realized this was a
noble work, had noticed there were not many
young women here, and urged the Presi-


[Column 1]
dents to get the young mothers out to these
meetings; she knew we would gain just as
much and live as long as those who work
for means; told of the Granite Stake Relief
work, they had missionaries to visit the out-
side world, two sisters to visit the wards and
see how they managed, and if there was
anything better than we have to adopt it in
our meetings and try to improve a little
every year. “Lead the sisters in love, and
drop a kind word or give a smile, it costs
nothing and does a great deal of good.” See
to the little things of life, and be waiting or
looking for the big things. Warned mothers
to look after their children, keep your arms
around them for it is easier to hold them
than to bring them back. We are all tried
in some way or another. Spoke of the
wheat question, advised the sisters to take
care of everything given to them and pre-
pare for a day of scarcity. She was glad to
hear the reports of such unity and love be-
tween officers and Bishops, thought it was
right. Prayed a blessing on all.
	Bishop Parkes addressed the conference,
he had felt impressed to come to this meet-
ing. Said implicit faith in God was the one
great thing for us, for without it we could
not accomplish the work we desired to do.
Compared the Church to a great machinery,
everything must be in its place and work
properly or it won’t go; said it is so with
us, perfect love and harmony must prevail
in order to gain that eternal salvation we
are all working for, the theory and the actual
experience is given to us, and how careful
we should follow this plan. Said it was
beautiful to belong to such an organization,
and unless we improved we will degenerate
and go down. Referred to Mr. Harriman
who has just died, he had left his wealth be-
hind him and he cared very little for his
soul’s salvation, and would it not have been
better for him to have balanced up his
spiritual affairs along with that wealth.
Prayed a blessing on all.
	President Chappell stated after singing
and prayer meeting would adjourn until 2
p. m.
	Minutes of afternoon session September
17th, President Chappelle presiding. Sing-
ing, prayer, etc. The officers were sustained
by unanimous vote.
	President Lena Elert reported the Mona
Ward as being in prosperous condition.
	Sister Minnie H. James said she had en-
joyed listening to the reports they had come
to try and give a word of encouragement
and to see how we were getting along. She
thought if we would send missionaries to
visit those who do not attend and invite
them specially, more of the mothers would
come out to these meetings. Told us to
try and find out what each one was most
adapted to, then give them that to do, and
while we want the young we need the old too,
for we want their wisdom. Spoke of the
excellent way we have of storing our grain.
Anything that was a help to us was the
thing we needed, and we often have a con-
trast to make us appreciate what we have;
thought that if we associated together more
we would know each other better, and have
a broader view of everything; told us to ap-
preciate what we have and not desire to
change, while it is hard to do a great many
things, it may be just what we need after all.
Said if she had dropped a word of encour-
agement to anyone she was paid for the ef-
fort she had made. Prayed the spirit of our
work would be with us.
	Sister S. A. Cazier favored us with a song.
	Bishop Taylor of Levan made a few re-

[Column 2]
marks, complimented the sisters on the
noble work they were doing.
	President J. W. Ord had enjoyed the re-
marks of the sisters and felt the suggestion
from them to send out missionares was a
good one, as there were many who were not
making this work a part of their lives, and
it takes action and sacrifice to live as we
should live; gave good advice to mothers,
and bore a faithful testimony to this work.
	Bishop Pettigrew had listened with great
interest to the remarks of the visiting sis-
ters, said there was no one more capable of
carrying on this work and taking care of the
wheat than the sisters, he could always rely
on them; hoped they would continue in their
noble work.
	Sister James felt there had been so many
good things touched upon she would not de-
tract from that, but she desired to encourage
the sisters to so plan their work that they
might attend their meetings; advised the
mothers to do away with so much fancy
cooking and ironing rufles, warned them to
look after their children; never go to bed
and leave them out and they will thank us
when they are older.
	President Chappell felt we had had a
most glorious meeting and food for reflec-
tion; hoped all would be renewed and have
a desire to attend these meetings spoke in
very high terms of her board of officers and
their willingness to do anything she asked
of them; told of the beautiful organ the
Second Ward had bought with their Sun-
day eggs, and hoped we would continue.
Meeting adjourned for six months. Singing,
“The Sun that Declines.” Prayer by Coun-
selor Priscilla Lunt.
			SARAH COLE, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


REORGANIZATION.
	The 25th Ward Relief Society of Pioneer,
Stake was reorganized on Tuesday, Feb. 1r
1910, Catherine White presiding. After the
usual opening exercises Bishop Carl A. Ek,
was present, also Stake President of the Re-
lief Society Annie Wells Cannon and her
Board, Clara Clawson, Louie Giauque and
Amelia Cutler, were there for the purpose of
reorganizing the Relief Society. Catherine
White, former president, and Flora P. Niel-
son, First Counselor, were honorabl released,
having been faithful workers since the 25th
Ward was organized, eight years ago.
	Sister Edna Sullivan was chosen presi-
dent and Sister Julia Robinson, formerly
Second Counselor, was chosen for First
Counselor, and Sister Eliza Lockyear was
chosen for Second Counselor; Sister Emma
Andrus was retained as Secretary, and Sis-
ter Susie Strubeck as Treasurer.
	Bishop Ek then spoke to the sisters for a
few moments, followed by President Annie
W. Cannon, Louie Giauque and Amelia
Cutler, all praising the work of the retiring
officers. The new officers were then set
apart by Bishop Ek, and a rising vote of
thanks to the retiring officers was called for,
which was unanimously responded to.
	Sister White then spoke a few moments,
expressing her good will to the sisters, and
said her heart was in the work and her de-
sire was to see the Relief Society grow
and prosper.
	The new officers each spoke a few mo-
ments, after which the meeting was ad-
journed by singing and benediction by
Bishop Carl A. Ek.
			EMMA ANDRUS. Sec.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Sketch and resolution of respect to the memory
of Sister Mary A. Elison, who departed this life
Dec. 28, 1909, at her home in Deseret, Utah, at
the age of 56 years. She was a faithful member
of the Church until her death. Also an active
member and teacher in our Relief Society for
years. She was always on hand at her post of
duty, especially in looking after the sick and
aged.
	She was also a great lover of children, and was
loved and respected by all who knew her. Was
a woman of great faith and integrity to the Gos-
pel, her testimony was always bright, her faith
was unwavering. Her life was worthy of emula-
tion, for she was always active in the service of
the Lord.
	We esteem it a pleasant duty to testify of her
faithfulness, as she has left a record that would
be hard to surpass. She endeared herself to the
children as well as the older people. We cannot
help missing those who are near and dear, it is
only natural; yet we would not call them back.
We must not grieve the Holy Spirit, but cherish
its divine influence.
	Our dear sister of whom we write has finished
her mission here on earth and has made her eall-
ing and election sure, we believe, but it is only our
duty to record the life and works of a woman like
Sister Elison.
	She lived a beautiful and serene life, and has
gone to meet her loved ones, her noble husband,
to whom she gave her affections, also her children
who have gone before.
			RESOLUTIONS.
	Therefore be it resolved that we, the sisters of
the Relief Society do sincerely sympathize with
the bereaved family, and we mourn for one who
was in every respect worthy of our love and
esteem.
	Resolved that in her death we recognize the loss
of a true Saint and a faithful worker, and express
our hopes that though she has left us for a short
time, yet it is well with her.
	For she has fought the good fight and has kept
the faith, and there is a crown of righteousness
awaiting her in the Kingdom of God.
	She has gone, but to a rest so sweet,
		To all the faithful given,
	O may we earn through earthly life
		The same sweet bliss in heaven.
	May her devoted life on earth
		Of patience, hope and love,
	Aid us to gain that prize of worth,
		From him who rules above.
	Resolved that the resolutions be placed on the
record of our ward Relief Society and that they
be published in the Woman’s Exponent, and a
copy be sent to the bereaved family.
	Signed. Officers and Members of the Relief
Society of Deseret, Utah.


AUTOBIOGRAPHY. 
[LIFE AND TRAVELS OF NANCY M. TRACY.] 
		(Continuation from page 26.) 
	We had school and meetings and the 
winter passed off very agreeably. The 
Saints would go forth ln the dance, and the 
Spirit of God was with them, and we felt to 
rejoice, for there was none in our midst to 
prohibit us from worshiping God according 
to the dictates of our conscience. 
	We did not fear our enemies, and had 
the red men for our neighbors; and they 
were very civil that winter. Our old Nau-
voo friend, Amos Davis, came through and 
called on us. He was traveling through to 
Kanesville with goods. We made him 
as comfortable as we could, and he was 
glad to see us. When he left he gave us
tea, sugar and rice that lasted all winter, 
We felt it a God-send to us in those close
times.
	We did not leave this place as we expec-
ted in the spring. We lived here for three 
years and raised grain and vegetables and


[Column 1]
did well. My seventh son was born here
the second winter that we lived here; and
when we left to go west we were fitted up
with two yoke of oxen and one yoke of cows
both of them giving milk, when we started
out. We crossed over the Missouri river
and went into the camp of the Saints, for
there was a general rally to move on this
spring. One hundred and eighty-five gath-
ered on the bluffs to organize the camp.
There were one hundred wagons to move on
in our company, Brother Hawkins captain
of the hundred. Then there were captains
of fifties and of tens. Thomas Johnson was
over the fifty that we were in.
	After all was made ready we started out
on our toilsome journey to the Rocky Moun-
tains; this was about the tenth of June 1850.
My husband was then called as captain
over two tens.
	Traveling was very slow, in consequence
of new roads and lengthy train of wagons.
We took a widow with us by the name of
Bracket. We traveled on until we came to
the Platte river country without any sick-
ness, but sometimes the Indians would
come into camp and steal. At one time a
young Indian got away with a sack of
crackers. The old chief brought him back
into camp and whipped him severely before
the camp. This was while we were near
the Platte, in the Buffalo country. The
men thought they ought to rest their teams
for a day or two, and have a hunt. Several
went out, the weather was very hot, and the
water bad. They came in at night loaded
with buffalo meat. One young man, Charlie
Johnson, was taken with the cholera that
night and died at daybreak. He was rolled
up in a blanket and buried in a deep grave,
so the wolves could not dig him up, for they
were very numerous. This was the first
commencement of cholera in the camp.
After this there were seyeral deaths in the
company, some of cholera and some of
other complaints. At last one died of
smallpox, but so much caution was used
that no one else took it, nearly all were
vaccinated.
	We continued our journey now, but the
camp was divided into fifties and traveled
in two companies, so they would travel with
more comfort than with such a large com-
pany. We came on to the Black Hills.
There were deserted soldiers came into
camp and plead to travel with us, but they
were soon overtaken by their officers and
strapped on horses and taken back to quar-
ters, and I suppose had to pay the penalty.
	The camp stopped in the Black Hills to
let the cattle rest and put shoes on them,
for their feet had become so sore and ten-
der they could not travel. We stayed here
twelve days. The men killed elk and deer
until we were all supplied. It was salted
and dried over the smoke, so it would keep
for the rest of the journey. While we were
here, the wolves would make the night hid-
eous with their howling. There were panth-
ers here, too, and I was glad, for my part,
when we left the place, for I did not fancy
this kind of enemies, so we left them, as we
did those who had robbed us and driven us
from our possessions and homes. The
journey was long and tedious, sometimes
having to camp without wood or water. I
have seen the cattle tied up at night after
traveling all day without feed or water. We
had two cows that worked in the yoke all
the time, but they gave us milk, so when
there was no water we could drink their
milk for supper, The traveling became
more slow and fatiguing every day. When

[Column 2]
we got to the crossing of the Green River it
ran very swift, it looked deep and angry.
Among the first that went into the river was
one Brother Gifford. He hung on to the
bows as long as he could, but lost his hold
and the current took him down. Some
few had got across, and one of the brethren
jumped into the stream and swam to his
rescue, and fetched him ashore. He was
nearly gone, but came around all right after
a while. The rest all got over without any
accident, and moved on towards the moun-
tains that we were now nearing. At last
we began to raise their heights and reach
the summit, and look down into the valley
below, the goal of our destination. It looked
like a paradise, dotted with dwellings and
gardens. Our eyes dwelt and hearts feasted
upon the lovely scene after three months of
hard toil and travel and under all circumr
stances of a trying nature.
	On the 15th of September we came into
Salt Lake City. We camped for a few days
at the west of the city to look around and
rest and see where to make a home. My
husband’s health was very much impaired
by our long journey and constant exposure,
and cold weather coming on we traveled
north eight miles to Sessions Settlement to
get better feed for our stock and camped for
three weeks. My husband and son went in-
to the mountains and got out wood and sold
to get something to live upon. The crick-
ets, which had made such havoc in the
crops left some, but provisions were hard to
get, as this was the third year that ever
anything had been attempted to be grown.
in this desert land.
	The Widow Bracket was still with us, and
shared our humble fare. It was now past
the middle of October and very cold, and
something had to be done for quarters, for
winter. There had a number of families
gone north to Ogden River and built a fort
called Mound Fort. We consulted to
gether and thought it best to move on to
this place, about thirty-five miles. Sister
Brocket thought she would go no further,
for she could get a place to live where we
were. She had been very good in helping
to care for the children and doing what she
could, she was feeble in health. We bade
her good bye, and started north. We were
the most of three days in going to Ogden
River, crossed over, went to the fort, built a
small cabin and moved into it. The next
thing to do was to secure some breadstuff,
for we were now on rations. My husband
sold a yoke of our cattle, and got a large,
fat ox. This he traded for twelve bushels of
wheat, and this was all the show for bread
for the winter, with a few pounds of corn-
meal. I did not feel to complain. I would
cut my children a slice of bread and tell
them to thank our Heavenly Father for it,
and they were satisfied and we were all
happy.
	My husband took up a piece of land one
mile west of the fort. Timber was plenitful
on the river and he put up a log house with
two rooms, on this land, we moved down on
to it in the winter. The Indians had a race
camp near by on the river bottom. They
were quite civil and were very good neigh-

[Column 3]
bors, we had no trouble with them. The
young Indians would want to play and
wrestle with our boys. At one time one
wrestled with my second son living, threw
him, and put his elbow out of joint, which
scared the young native badly, but the
Indians put it down for a mark of bravery.
	Well, the wfnter passed. It was a cold,
hard winter. In the spring we prepared to
put some seed in the ground, all we could
get in those scarce times. High water in-
jured a good deal of the crop. Grass-
hoppers came, but we fought them and
saved enough for our bread. While this
was getting matured, it was very hard to
get food to eat sometimes. We had to re-
sort to roots and wild onions, and that did
not satisfy hunger. In the latter part of the
summer we got a good many service berries
from the Indians, which made our fruit for
the winter, and they were very nice in-
deed.
	In the fall of ’51 there came a large sheep
herd. In going through to California it was
so late in the season they abandoned going
any further, so they drove their herd down
the Weber River to winter. A great many
sheep died. The Indians would pick the
wool off and bring it and sell it for a mere
trifle. I got fifty or sixty pounds of this
wool, cleansed it thoroughly. Next sum-
mer I made it into cloth and clothed my
family with it till they were comfortable.
	In May, the second of this year, ’52, my
eighth son was born, David Seymour. There
was high water again this spring, but the
men had leveled and fixed up the banks of
the river, so it did not do so much damage
and we had a tolerably fair crop, but had to
fight the grasshoppers again. My husband
went to work and made a fanning mill to
clean the grain and it brought us in a good
deal of grain, as it was the only one around.
	The emigrants were traveling through
this year to California very lively. It made
a good deal of traffic for the Saints; they
would trade goods and groceries for the
bread stuff and feed for their teams. We
also traded our oxen that we came into the
valley with and got a span of horses for
them. This year there was some trouble
with the Indians and it was considered bet-
ter to fort up. The place selected and set-
tled was called Bingham Fort, one mile north
from our home; so my husband pulled down
our house and moved it to that place. There
was a school house, so we could send our
children to school. It was also used for
a meeting house. We continued to live here
for three or four years. My children were
sick the most of the winter. My husband
built a good adobe house, and we were
quite comfortable while we were here in
this fort.
		[TO BE CONTINUED.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTE.
	Ex-Queen Liliukalani of Hawaii, has gone
to Washington to confer over proposed legis-
lation iutended to give the Sandwich Islands
more liberal homestead rights.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 38.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH, 1910.						No. 8.


CONTENTS.
										PAGE
Extracts from a Foreign Letter.............................
.............................................Romania B. Penrose		57
Missionary Experience.................Lydia D. Alder		58
U. W. P. C. and Reapers Social on Wednes-
	day, February 23, 1910...........Ellis R. Shipp		59
Notes and News....................................................		59
Celebration of Annual Day...................................		62
Annual Day in Union, Oregon..............................		62
The Lamanite Remembered..................................		63
Autobiography............................Nancy M. Tracy		63
Relief Society Stake Reports:—Juab...................		62
	Uintah...........................................................		62
Editorial:—Seventeenth of March.......................		60
	Home Industry..............................................		60
	Editorial Notes..............................................		60
	Minutes of First Relief Society (from record)	61
	Public Reception...........................................		61
Poetry:—Never Borrow Worldly Sorrow..............
	.................................................Ellis R. Shipp		57
	Mary’s Bible....................................Millicent	57
Dedication of the House of the Lord.....................
	.................................................Emily Maeser	59
Our Pioneers.....................Hattie Critchlow Jensen	59


NEVER BORROW WORLDLY SORROW.
	Oft we mortals fret and worry
		O’er the minor ills of life,
	Live we in continued flurry,
		In a never-ending strife.

	Foes imagined mock and greet us,
		Every turn upon the road,
	Troubles more than half way meet us,
		Weighing down life’s heavy load.
	
	We are prone to think our burden
		Heavier than man e’er bore,
	Oft we fail to see the guerdon
		Coming through our open door.

	Ah, how weak to borrow trouble!—
		Better wait until it’s here;
	For to borrow makes it double,
		Triples every falling tear.

	For, perchance, the very sorrow
		We anticipate today,
	Will be changed to joy tomorrow,
		Clouds in sunshine melt away.

	Yes, through mists of pain and sadness,
		We may see unfailing light,
	Aye, tomorrow may bring gladness—
		Faith illumines darkest night.

	For the things which most distress us,
		Make our nightly pillow wet,
	Dreaded cares which most oppress us,
		Really haven’t happened yet.
					ELLIS R. SHIPP.


MARY’S BIBLE.
My sister brought me the Bible,
	She held it with tenderest care,
And said in low tones, “It was Mary’s,
	You’ll find her dear name written there.”

And I saw how the dear, loving fingers
	Seemed to cling to the volume so old;
With the name and mementoes within,
	That made it more precious than gold.

Today, when I took down the Bible,
	I turned to the name and the date,
Then the dew was still bright on life’s morning,
	Now, ah me! now the hour is late.

Ah, I know the dear home on the hill,
	Where she sat as she leaned o’er this page,
And traced the one name on its whiteness;
	That is dimmed now, and yellow with age.

And I seem to be gazing once more
	On the beautiful face of my sister;
For, perchance, I was standing near by,
	While the forest winds tenderly kissed her.

Let me draw back the veil of the years
	And recall the dear home scenes once more;
Though the trees of the forest are bare,
	And snow drifts lie deep at the door,


There is warmth and contentment within, 
	There is hope—there is love for each other; 
And brown eyes and blue turn with pride
	To our star, the fair face of my mother. 

Here, hid in the “Gospel of John,”
	I find a pressed spray of sweet clover, 
The white blossom faded and sere, 
	And I pause ere I turn the page over. 

Was I there when her white fingers plucked it? 
	Did it grow in some bright forest nook? 
Or in some sunny spot in the garden, 
	Was I there when ’Twas placed in the book? 

And here, in the sweet Psalms of David, 
	Is a book mark in letters or blue; 
A token of love wrought by “Hope,”
	In her youth time, so wondrous and new. 

The “Book of Life” little she dreamed 
	That her life’s book so seemingly fair, 
Would unfold many dark, tear stained pages, 
	Many leaves marred with struggle and care. 

O memory, how sadly you whisper,
	“These are only the phantoms of brightness 
Long past; let the veil fall again
	O’er the shrouded years, robed in youth’s white-
		ness.”

O my soul, look aloft from these tracings, 
	By a hand long since lifeless and cold; 
For in heaven the sweet name of “Mary,”
	Is written in letters of gold
							MILLICENT.


[Column 1]
EXTRACTS FROM A FOREIGN LETTER. 
	Presidents of missions, conferences and 
branches are acknowledged the great help 
and benefit the Relief Society is to the 
Priesthood and a good work is being done 
among the women also. They are learning
to work in organizations in harmony and 
with union and love one for another, and 
studying numerous subjects valuable to 
mothers. Immigration often almost breaks 
up a society; one has had to cease to be, be-
cause the few left lived so far apart that the 
meetings could not be kept up. Frequently 
reorganization takes place because the offi-
cers go to Zion. I am stirring them up by 
way of remembrance to be sure and keep 
our anniversary the 17th of March. We 
here in Liverpool give a concert and social 
on that day, and expect to have a good 
time. Will you or can you hold your Relief 
Society Conference in April in your own 
building? I believe that was the ambition
of the sisters, to have a room or hall where 
they could hold meetings as often and as 
long as they desired. I read of the grand 
reception tendered you by the R. S. Board 
in your new building. Also of the party 
held in honor of your birthday by the Press 
Club and of the pretty silk gown presented 
you. I also read with great terror of your 
sudden illness some time ago, but was 
greatly relieved when I read you had recov-
ered and was back in your office. I believe
you are the senior woman of the world who 
at your age attends her office and business.
You surely have broken the record and set 
an example to the rest of us. My great 
ambition is when I get home again to bury 
myself in the Temple and work for my dead!
On my father’s side very little has been
done.
	That will be a new atmosphere to this out 
here in the world. It is past comprehen-

[Column 2]
sion, mine, at least, how the people can be 
content with the silly, chaffy, positively 
nonsensical religions they follow here. 
Their depth of reasoning reaches no farther 
than their fathers before them, saying, “what
was good enough for my parents is good 
enough for me,” and take no further thought 
about it. But amidst all this apathy many 
honest hearted people are coming to a 
knowledge of the gospel and joining the 
Church. 
	It is an actual, positive truth that the 
Christians, so-called, worship an unknown 
God just as much as they did in Paul’s day,
and the only difference between them and 
the heathen is they have nothing in their
mind’s eye, while the heathen look upon a 
tangible idol. Oh! the work that will some-
time have to be done for the dead is appall-
ing to think of. It looks almost impossible 
to be accomplished. President Penrose had 
a letter from Susa Gates yesterday in which 
she gave us a real insight into President
Winder’s condition and we both felt very sad. 
*		*		*		*		*
I dread to think of floods that may possibly 
inundate the people on the west of Jordan, 
and of the city near it. They seem to be 
devastating everywhere. Some permanent 
way to carry off surplus water will have to 
be found or people will be discouraged from 
building up that part of the city. We have 
actually had four or five fine days consecu-
tively in March which is [-] very uncommon 
record for England. There is a great deal 
of rain, wind and fog here but with it all it 
is not nearly so cold as at home. But I 
miss the clear, bright, starlit nights, when 
the heavens are studded with brilliant stars. 
I scarcely ever can see a star here. We go 
to London again March 26th, and after the 
conference held there on the 27th, the next 
Sunday Pres. Penrose will go on to Norwich 
for conference there and I will remain in
London.
	On our way to the Nottingham conference 
this year, we started a day sooner and 
stopped off at Worksop, where friends joined 
us and we went to visit a very ancient and 
interesting town called Lincoln, where there 
is a very old and celebrated cathedral. In 
it is a very tiny “Imp,” carved on the top 
of one of the pillars, which has a legend at-
tached, of course, to account for its pres-
ence. A fine artist, a sculptor, has a beau-
tiful lady-love and he carves her sweet face 
on one of the stones at the top of one of the 
pillars; but a traitor rival convinces her that 
he did the work, and she is so flattered that 
she consents to marry him. The true lover 
in his jealous rage climbs up to the image, 
and with a few strokes of his chisel converts 
the face into a grinning imp with horns on 
its head. But, fortunately for the true lover, 
as the false one and bride were crossing a 
deep, swift stream on the way to the church 
to be wed, his horse loses its footing and 
he is drowned and of course the true lover
is on the bank witnessing the scene and 
dashes in and saves the lady, and they are
afterward happily married; but the grinning 
imp remains. 
	Now I must close or I will make my let-
ter too heavy. I hope you will write soon


and tell me all the news you can think of 
and especially of your own good health. 
Give my love to Annie and Belle and all my 
friends. I suppose you have not seen my 
new grandaughter—from her picture I call 
her a great beauty, but perhaps I am like 
the old owl thinking her nestlings are the 
most beautiful in the forest. I must write 
two more letters for this mail. Remember 
us especially to Sister Bathsheba and our 
wishes and prayers are for her welfare. Mr.
Penrose joins me in love to you, 
		Most Lovingly,
			ROMANIA B. PENROSE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	MISSIONARY EXPERIENCE.
	When in the missionary field I often said
to myself, when packing my grip, having
been transferred to another field of labor,
“O, I shall be glad when I pack my grip for
the last time; I am so tired of living in
grips!”
	The missionary thus about to migrate,
realizing he must now labor in pastures
new, feels to look back on what he knows
rather than to step into the future—the un-
known. But our abiding faith in God and
His work gives an assurance one otherwise
could not feel. In the world it is considered
to be a bad thing to be a Mormon man, but
to be a Mormon woman is much worse.
“Do you know you have Mormon women in
your house?” Thus is a landlady inter-
rogated, who lets you have a room, rents it
to you, a missionary of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, and then usual-
ly the trouble begins.
	The lady of the house finds no fault with
you. You are quiet, make no trouble, and
are very modest and retiring. This may
satisfy the landlady, but it does not disarm
the neighbor in the next house, or the
adjoining one, or some houses away, who
feels the menace your presence is in the
neighborhood. Your landlady may become
interested in you, she may love to converse
with you about life in the Western World,
of the people and customs there; and, if she
be a woman of strong character, she may
allow you to stay as long as you remain in
that field. But if she is easily intimidated,
or is sensitive to the scorn or commiseration
of her friends, you may come in from tract-
ing, or a long walk, where you have pros-
trated yourself on the earth, humbled your-
self to the very dust before your Father in
heaven, to see the placard in the front win-
dow, “Apartments to Let,” and feeling as
though a cold hand clutched at your heart,
you will understand that you must go. And
that would not be so bad of itself, but you
must await the necessary developments, not
knowing the manner of your dismissal. You
may step softly, but soon you may hear,
“Those American shoes of yours must have
nails in the heels, look at the marks you
make on the linoleum!” You resolve to be
more careful, but before the day is done you
may hear, “Just look at that grease spot on
the fender! What a careless woman you
must be!” And you, with a bursting heart,
but giving no outward expression to your
aggravated feelings, may remember that
you saw the lady yourself rendering drip-
pings that very morning, and as you have
not handled any grease, know the lady is
scolding about her own carelessness.
	Another night passes away. Then comes
another day, and with it anxiety as to what
it may bring forth; you enter almost reluct-
antly upon its duties. The family breakfast

[Column 2]
is over, then you may get yours. Soon the
owner of indignant feelings discovers that
you did not clear up the crumbs on the
kitchen table, before you carried your plate
of bread into the dining-room. So from the
kitchen she calls out, “Why did you not
clear up the litter you made, not leave it
lying around here?” Very meekly you may
say, “I thought we might want to cut some
more but will clear it away as soon as we
are through.”
	Then, feeling you can stand no more,
when the lady comes into the room you say,
“I suppose you want us to get another
place?” You are not surprised when she
says, “I think you had better.” A little
later, when sitting in your own room up-
stairs deeply interested in writing a letter
home—with no mention of what you
are required to submit to—the landlady
enters. You do not look up, you feel the
presence, and that is sufficient. She has
dashed the dishes around, after you leave
the table, in her ugly temper breaking a
pretty china mug, but this you must not
notice, but continue the writing. In a
changed voice she addresses you:
	“Mrs. Alder, do not think any more about
what occurred this morning. I have a
nasty temper, do not think anything more
about it.”
	“Then do you wish us to stay?”
	“It will be just as well, you might find
a worse home.”
	“Home!” What a mockery it seems!
Still we are grateful that we did not have
to walk miles, perhaps, that day, going to
the door of every house where the sign in
the window reads, “Apartments to Let,” only
to be told, “We only take gentlemen,” or
that they are very expensive, more than a
modest missionary could pay, or that the
woman would say, when you asked about
her room, “How do I know but that as
soon as my back is turned, you will not be
going through my bureau drawers?” This
not only might happen, but it did, at the
last place before we came here. It chanced
that one of the Saints lived near here, and to
her you go and tell her of it.
	“I will go with you and see her, I think
it will be all right.”
	The sister assured the landlady that she
would be responsible for everything that I
might steal out of the house. Even under
these conditions you feel glad that you found
at least a temporary abiding place.
	These pictures fade from your mind, now
that you need not go away, and you thank
God, who has softened the woman’s heart,
not even asking how it came about.
	On the next day it is explained. Two
friends we had made while tracting, whom
we had visited in sickness, had called upon
a friend of their’s who lived across the
street.
	“Do you know we have two Mormon
women across the, road?” they were asked.
	“Yes,” they replied. “And if we all had
as much pure religion as they have, the
world would be better; for they have visited
us in sickness, and never mentioned their
own faith—but only that we might become
well.”
	So a kind act, quietly ministering to these,
—perhaps of those whom the Father gave
to his Son, to be His very own—had brought
a blessing when it was sorely needed. All
these thoughts pass through the mind, as
we wonder what the next field will bring.
	Then, too, there are the Saints whom we
have learned to love, to whom one’s heart
goes out in sympathy for their ostracised

[Column 3]
condition, being in the world, but not of it.
Will they remain faithful? Sometime will
they gather to Zion, where those dear boys
and girls may never more feel the scorn of
the world? And the friends, what of them?
Have you done your best; been wise as may
be, not giving them strong meat, but just
feeling after them with solicitude? And
those two friends who invited you to their
home, seeking for comfort. But you did
not know that they had heart sorrows until
you went, then they were unfolded to you.
In vain they had sought elsewhere for some-
thing to ease their hearts, and give them
peace. At last they say, “Our brother
died a few years ago, a suicide, what will
be his fate?”
	Staggered by the announcement, and
deeply grieved, you look into the earnest
faces before you, while a silent prayer for
wisdom and knowledge rises up from your
heart. You do not know the circumstances,
nor what lead up to the act, so cannot enter
into it, but the Gospel is tidings of joy, of
that you can speak, and of the love of God
that encompasseth all things, and that He
consigns not to endless torment, but the
punishment is according to the degree of
sin. And, oh, you are so glad to see peace
enter into that home, even though they do
not at this time accept of that which is so
precious to you. The strong oak of that
house had fallen on the earth, not by an-
other’s act, but by his own. The tender
vines that years of close companionship had
wound around him had fallen to the ground.
Now the tendrils were putting forth little
shoots, feeling for something on which to
cling and grow anew.
	“Blessed are they that mourn, for they
shall be comforted.”
	There is one other with whom we grieved
to part. One day, tracting from door to
door, in the center of the town, we knocked
at one where a sweet faced woman, with a
big boy in her arms, answered it.
	“Will you accept of a Gospel tract to read?
The spoiled boy is rude, it is with difficulty
she holds him, but she says:
	“What denomination are you?”
	You give the usual answer, but she has
never heard of such a people. You are glad
when she says,
	“I am going to move to —— Street,
and would be pleased to have you call,
there.”
	Of course, in a little time you went, only
to find they had gone on their holidays.
Later you find her home, and you are in-
vited in. The troublesome boy is at his
grandmother’s, and you can tell her of the
real nature of the Gospel.
	“My husband has heard of your people,”
she said. “Won’t you come some evening
when he is at home? I would like him to
meet you.”
	Yes, you will be glad to call, and you find
this to be an ideal, happy home. You love
this dear lady—cannot help it—and the
thought comes, “If I win only one soul to
Christ, how great my joy will be!” And so
far as I know, this was the only one, this
fair, precious, tender woman, who accepted
the Gospel, who heard of it first from my
lips.
	But she will come to London, to the Con-
ference. I shall see her again.
	Now, the packing all done, forth we go to
bid the subjects of our thoughts good bye.
	[CONTINUED ON PAGE 64.]


MISSIONARY EXPERIENCE.
		(Continued from page 58)
	Even the landlady, who feared our going
through her belongings, came in for a fare-
well. She was a rough woman, but an hon-
est one. Her husband had joined the volun-
teers for Africa (it was the time of the Boer
war) and left her to provide for herself and
two children, except what the city paid to
her. She had become a friend; attended the
meetings, and said, “If any in the earth
have the truth, you have.” Her people per-
suaded her that she could do better to go
out to do day work, leaving her children
with them. Thus they accomplished their
desire, and the missionaries had to find
other lodgings. All this is past now; some
day she may come into the fold. Only one
we did not go to see. She was a little
woman who had at first been very kind.
When the writer caught her dress in one of
the old English styles, and fell, her limb 
afterwards becoming nearly black, so much
was it bruised from ankle to knee, she had
tenderly bathed and soothed it with healing
ointment. But neighbors poisoned her
mind, told her that even from across the
street, I had, they could see, tipped the
mirror of the dresser too far over, and
“made her house look ever so.” So, filled
by the hate that the adversary of souls in-
spires, she had turned us into the street,
while she foamed at the mouth and shook
like an aspen leaf, afterwards being ill in
bed for six months.
	“Why did you not tell us you had such
things to endure?” I was afterwards asked.
	“What would be the use of telling that
which you could not understand?
	As we ride in the train to Euston Station,
we think of a man whom we invited to at-
tend this Conference in London. He had
read the tracts, and being a builder, had
desired to see the manner of houses in Utah.
We had taken the pictures for him to see.
He was much interested. “But come to
London,” we said, “hear the presiding auth-
orities talk.”
	“Do you think I would be, safe to come
there?” he asked.
	How long before people will understand
Utah and the Mormons?
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MEDITATION IN THE HOUSE OF THE LORD.
	Peace! be still in Father’s House,
		Softly should our footsteps fall,
	And our souls responsive listening,
		Listening to the Spirit’s call.
	Angels all around us hovering,
		Watching, praying all the while,
	Glad to help us in our labor,
		Save our friends behind the veil.
	They are anxious for their freedom,
		Longing, waiting for release,
	Hoping we’ll unlock their prison,
		Bring them Gospel-light and Peace.
	They will love us for deliverance,
		Meet us with a joyful clasp,
	Great our glory to be saviors,
		Dwell in mansions with the blessed,
						EMILIE MAESER.


OUR PIONEERS
O’er trackless deserts, wild and wide,
	The early Pioneers
Marched cheerfully, with hopeful hearts 
	And cast aside all fears.
They knew God’s hand was over them
	They trusted not in vain—
For thro’ the boundless wilderness,
	He brought them home again.

Not palaces, nor marbled halls
	Nor tents—nor beds of ease—
But heaven’s canopy o’er all,
	Was home, with joy and peace.

Come, let us sing—our voices ring—
	“The desert like a rose,”
Has blossomed and made glad our hearts,
	Brought joy and sweet repose.
Then honor give to whom it’s due,
	Our sturdy Pioneers!
With pride we’ll sing of all they’ve done,
	Throughout the coming years.

They fought the drouth with mighty hand, 
	Out in this Western clime,
They looked starvation in the face,
	Yet conquered every time,
For Providence was over them,
	He was the Friend in need,
Who succored them, when all else failed,
	And proved a Friend indeed.

Our Pioneers! How few are left!
	Ere many years go by,
There’ll none be left to hear our song,
	Let’s sing while they are nigh,
Our Pioneers! Our Pioneers!
	God bless our Pioneers!
We’ll honor them—we’ll sing of them,
	Thro’ all the coming years.
			HATTIE CRITCHLOW JENSEN.


[Column 1]
U. W. P. C AND REAPERS SOCIAL.
ON WEDNESDAY FEBUARY 23, 1910.
	Through mutual agreement the Utah Wo-
man’s Press Club and the Reapers Social
met in the EXPONENT Office, Bishop’s
Building, to do honor to our founder and
organizer, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells. Pres-
dent Mrs. Hattie C. Jensen, presiding.
Elder George Q. Morris was called upon to
open the meeting with prayer. The secre-
tary then called the roll, showing a good at-
tendance of officers and members.
	Master Byron Jensen sang an appropriate
selectfon with violin obligato by Lucile
Critchlow.
	The most touching tribute of the evening
was given by Annie Wells Cannon—“Emm-
eline B. Wells as a Mother”-her tenderness,
her sympathy and love, and withal, her
great wisdom in directing the youthful
minds of her children, were so beautifully
depicted by the speaker that hearts throbbed
audibly and eyes were moistened. The for-
titude and courage of that mother; no ele-
ment of fear ever came to this ofttimes lone-

[Column 2]
ly household through the sublime faith and
courage of the mother; and thus were the
children taught by precept and example, to
follow in her illustrious footsteps.
	Miss Bessie Smith then sang in a very
pleasing manner “The Songs my Mother
Sang.”
	Dr. E. R. Shipp then read an article en-
titled “As an Editor” expressive of heartfelt
appreciation of our poet-editor.
	Miss Vera Jensen then sang very sweetly,
“Bonnie Sweet Bessie.”
	Mrs. Lydia D. Alder in her effort to show
the immortal powers of “The Writer,” nice-
ly demonstrated her own facile ability as a
penwoman.
	In behalf of the two clubs, Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp presented our honorary president with
a silken gown as a token of loving esteem
of her co-workers. Mrs. Wells responded in
her sweet characteristic way, her words of
loving appreciation reaching all hearts.
	Delicious refreshments were served along
with pleasant interchange of thought and
soul to soul communion of life-long friends.
Then followed a musical program and inter-
esting speechmaking.
	An original song by Prest. Hattie C. Jen-
sen was beautifully rendered by a special
quartette: Samuel Winters, Harold Bar-
clough, Mrs. Sarah Wood and Vera Jen-
sen.
	Don Carlos Wood gave several humorous
recitations which were highly appreciated.
Followed by a piano duet by Mrs. Clara
Jensen and daughter.
	The Ladies Quartette, composed of Anna
Ericson, Natalie Thomas, Leah Arnold and
Marie Thomas, sang very sweetly.
	Bathsheba W. Smith, President of the
Relief Society, expressed her good will for
Sister Wells, and gave reminiscences of
early Missouri pioneer days.
	Mrs. Ruth M. Fox told in fitting words
how much we all realize what this little wo-
man has done for us in stimulating literary
effort and inspiring us to bring out all the
possibilities of our natures.
	She had often imagined Sister Wells as a
young girl and believed she too loved to
make herself look beautiful as other girls
do. The evening’s entertainment closed
with cordial handshakes and many, many
loving wishes for long life and happiness to
our honored and revered leader, Emmeline
B Wells.
			ELLIS R. SHIPP,
				Secretary U. W. P. C.


[Column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mr. Frank Sanborn writes in his Boston
letter to the Springfield Republican:
	Mrs. Howe continues her activities at the
women’s club and elsewhere, and has recom-
mended to her club mates to take up a
study of the races mingling in our national
population with particular reference to the
powerful Irish element. In that connection
she mentions that in 1843 she accompanied
Dr. Howe on a visit to Ireland, and, against
the adv ce of their London friends, went in
Dublin to hear O’Connell in one of his great
repeal speeches. It was interesting to hear
her and one of her daughters sing some of
the old English comic songs, one after the
other; much as I heard Mrs. Gerrit Smith
and her daughter, about 1870, sing at
Clarke’s Island, in Plymouth harbor, the
ballad of Lockhart, once in great favor as
a song, “The Bridal of Andalla.”

[Column 2]
	Mme. Marguarite Durand, editor of a
daily newspapor, and a leader of the suffrage
movement in France, intends to present
herself at the election in May as a candi-
date for the Chamber of Deputies. Women
are not legally eligible, but Mme. Durand
will run to call attention to the discrimina-
tion against her sex, and to the necessity of
giving women the franchise.
	Mrs. J. Scott Anderson, principal of the
Swarthmore School and Kindergarten for
the Deaf, has been appointed to represent
four different parties at the International
Congress on home Education, to be held in
Brussels, August 21-25. Governor Stuart
has delegated her to represent the Com-
monwealth of Pennsylvania. She will attend
also as the delegate of the American Acad-
emy of Social and Political Science, the
Philadelphia League of Home and School
Associations, and the Woman’s Club of
Swarthmore. Both Mr. and Mrs. Anderson
are ardent suffragists.—Ex.
	Miss Susan Lawrence and Miss Nettie
Alder have just been elected to the London
County Council where they will legislate
for more people than make up the whole
population of Massachusetts. Twenty-one
years ago Miss Jane Cobden (now the wife
of T. Fisher Unwin) and Lady Margaret
Sandhurst were elected to the Council, but
the courts held that women were not eligible.
During their short experience on the Coun-
cil, pending the decision of the court, Miss
Cobden and Lady Sandhurst rendered such
valuable service that the London County
Council has been petitioning Parliament
ever since to make women eligible. After
twenty years’ delay, the last Parliament got
around to doing so, and did it handsomely,
with only 15 dissenting votes out of 670
members of the House of Commons.—Ex.
	Miss Evangeline E. Whitney, who was in
charge of the recreation centres of the New
York public schools, has just died. The
Journal of Education describes her as “the
brilliant pioneer worker in this great field of
public school endeavor.” It adds: “This
phase of public school effort is as distinct a
blessing to the world as the discovery of the
causes of yellow fever and tuberculosis, and
a memorial should be raised in honor of the
woman who led in this movement in the
greatest of American cities.”
	Mrs. Winifred Harper Cooley, daughter of
Mrs. Ida Harper, is National Secretary of
the Associated Clubs of Domestic Science.
As a result of her investigation she has
reached the conclusion that a law to make
the cold storage of food products for longer
than six months illegal would go far toward
solving the evil of high prices.
	Lady St. Helier (formerly Lady Jeune),
has been chosen an alderman.
	Miss Mary Johnston coutributes to the
Atlantic Monthly an admirable article in
favor of votes for women, to offset Mrs.
Margaret Deland’s recent contribution on
the other side.
	Mrs. Ellen M. Henrotin and Dr. Anna
Dwyer, president of the medical staff of
Mary Thompson Hospital, have been ap-
pointed by Mayor Busse on the commission
of thirty members to investigate vice con-
ditions in Chicago. The powers of the com-
mission are limited to the securing of infor-
mation and the making of a report with
recommendations.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop's
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	-	MARCH, 1910.


SEVENTEENTH OF MARCH.
	The annual day of the Relief Society,
March 17, has been observed this year, we
think, in every ward in all the Stakes and
missions throughout the Church; this has
been customary now for quite a number of
years, more particularly since the Jubilee of
this Society was celebrated in 1892, it is
called the Relief Society day—the one day
in all the year when the sisters contribute
for the fund of the General Society. It is
the only means that the General Officers and
Board of Directors have to defray the neces-
sary expenses of carrying on the work of
this great institution. Ten cents from each
member is a very small contribution and
yet were every member to give the ten cents
it would be, we do believe most sincerely a
great blessing to the individual member,
and certainly to the President and officers
of the Society who labor assiduously for the
advancement of the cause for which on the
seventeenth of Mark, 1842, in the beautiful
city of Nauvoo this Society was founded.
	It is impossible in a short article to tell
the various ways this money is used, but 
the President of this organization, who was
present at the memorable meeting when
the organization took place is a very pru-
dent woman in the handling of means, and
not one cent is ever paid out of the treasury
without her sanction, and her signature at-
tached to the order for the money, also the
name of the secretary. The Treasurer pays
all bills, issues all checks, and everything
is paid with checks and in no other way.
	It was not our intention to mention the
ten cent donation in speaking of the annual
day, but only to suggest that the sisters do
observe it and make it the Relief Society
day for all time. It is now sixty-eight
years since the founding, and in two more
years it will be seventy. In that time we
might perhaps think of something appro-
priate for so great an occasion as that will
be, something that will be distinctive and
largely representative.


[Column 1]
HOME INDUSTRY.
	There is much being said just now about
home manufacture and home industry, and 
it really seems that our people are in earnest
in this matter once more; let us hope so,
and that we are beginning to go back to
first principles in this respect, and durability
and something that has real substance in-
stead of a fine display of shoddy material.

[Column 2]
Not that all the goods we buy is of that 
class, but the home-made products of wool
and silk have certainly been very much bet-
ter, and lasted longer and have been much
cheaper in the end than those imported.
	We were all very proud of our woolen 
goods, cloth, blankets and shawls especially,
we can never forget how durable they were,
no other blankets bought elsewhere lasted
so long; only a few, we think, have those yet
that were manufactured at first; but those
who have are fond of displaying them, and
our sisters refer with great pride to the
Woman’s Store, when Sister Eliza R. Snow
managed it, and we recall with the utmost
satisfaction the success of that department
of work connected closely with the Relief
Society in early days and which eventually
merged into Cutler Bro’s. but still retained
the name of home manufacture and kept in
stock the Provo Mills woolen goods, and
other such like commodities. 
	We were very glad to have factories, in-
stead of so much carding, spinning and
weaving in our own homes in such a primi-
tive way, although perhaps the women and
girls who were engaged in this work at
home, were quite happy and enjoyed that 
kind of employment; and some of the 
grandmothers now recount with pride the 
good old-fhshioned methods of those early
times, and how desirous they were to have
the very finest and best quality and color in
their wearing apparel, carpets and the vari-
ous articles made at home.
	In the commencement of the Relief So-
ciety in Nauvoo one of the first things en-
joined upon the sisters was to furnish or 
find employment for those in need of as-
sistance; and it has always been the aim
and endeavor to carry out this counsel of
the Prophet Joseph Smith, and much has 
been done in this direction; but as a people
we seem to have drifted away of late years
from this advice, and to have accepted what
seemed easier methods in the way of living
and helping the needy, and while ready 
money has come into more common use,
we have certainly neglected some important
matters, and we are not so independent as
we ought to be, or as we might have been.
	For a number of years the Relief Society
as well as individuals struggled to establish
silk culture; thousands of mulberry trees
were planted and millions of silk worms fed,
and cocoons of an excellent quality raised.
President Brigham Young had a mulberry 
farm with a large cocoonery just south of
this city and took the lead in this branch
of home industry, as he did in many other
home industries and manufactures. Aunt
Zina Young, who was for many years Presi-
dent of the Uiah Silk Assoclation; traveled
over Utah and throughout the Stakes of 
Zion in the interest of this branch of home 
industry. To be sure a great deal was done,
time would fail to tell of the efforts made 
by the sisters in this direction and what was
accomplished, and it is a deep source of re-
gret to the women of this State, that for 
lack of means, which might easily have been
furnished, if capitalists and legislators had
been wise enough to promote this industry,
that would have been far better for the peo-
ple than a gold mfne in their midst; but it 
was allowed to die out, and the sisters wear
imported silk which is vastly inferior to the 
home-made.
	One might go on enumerating the many
home enterprises that have been started and
have failed for lack of support and patron-
age, that are a source of regret today, not 
only because of the benefits that might have

[Column 3]
resulted, in clear gain and a sort of inde-
pendence that is always a credit to any peo-
ple, but best of all might have given re-
munerative employment to the boys and 
girls of our people.
	The Woman’s Store that is still struggling
for support, and which many of our sisters
have almost forgotten, was started upon this
principle, and was named “The Woman’s
Co-operative Mercantile and Home Manu-
facturing Institution.” It was intended to
help young women and girls to employment,
as well as to promote the interests of wo-
men along all the lines of work with a view
to self-support. Most of the branches of the 
Relief Society in Salt Lake County own
shares in this store, as well as a number of
individual members.
	The first President of the instituion, Mrs.
M. Isabella Horne, was one of the strongest
advocates of home industries and home
manufactured materials among this people,
and she had as coadjutors in this undertak-
ing at first, many of the leading women of
the city and county. Among the foremost
who worked for its establishment was Dr.
Elvira S. Barney, whose energy and enter-
prise accomplished so much in the building
up of this city. The houses she built and 
owned, stand as monuments to her memory
and achievement.
	At the present time Mrs. R. K. Thomas
is the President of this institution. The
store itself is in very good hands, under the 
management of a Board of Directors, all
able women, and Miss Mary Morgan is Busi-
ness Manager of the store itself, it is at the
present time located at 41 1/2 S. Main Street.
Salt Lake City.
	If our sisters in the cities and towns ad-
jacent would patronize the Woman’s Store
when they come in to trade it might help
very materially, and it is certainly a good
investment for themselves to sustain an en-
terprise, which has such a philanthropic ob-
ject in view for the betterment of the youth
of our city; for whatever gives employment
to any community of people is of incalcu-
able value.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The birthday anniversary of President
Wilford Woodruff was appropriately cele-
brated by his numerous family on March
1st, in the Fourteenth Ward chapel. Music-
al exercises and reminescences by children
and grandchildren of this illustrious chief-
tain were the principal features of the gath-
ering.
	The daughters of Sister Emma S. Wood-
ruff gave a birthday party for her on Thurs-
day, March 3, at the handsome residence of
her daughter, Mrs. J. J. Daynes, Jr., on
Fifth East Street. About a hundred ladies
were present to honor the occasion. The
rooms were very beautifully decorated with
choice flowers, vines and palms, and the
most exquisite music, vocal and instru-
mental, was rendered. Several of the ladies
present made brief remarks, expressing the
high appreciation of the work Sister Wood-
ruff had performed, both in the Salt Lake
Temple and the Relief Society, and wishing
her many happy returns of her birthday,
which occurs on March 1st, the same day as
that of her distinguished husband. Many
gifts and tokens of love and esteem were
presented. During the afternoon each lady
was asked to write a couplet or verse and
read to the company, and a prize of a very
pretty book was given to the winner. This


made a little diversion. Sister Sarah Mc-
Donald won the book. A number of old-
fashioned songs were sung by some of the
company. Delicious refreshments were
served by the daughters and grand-daughters
of the honored guest of the occasion.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MINUTES OF FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY.
		Masonic Hall, Nauvoo, Illinois:
			Lodge Room, March 17, 1842.
	Minutes of the first organization of the
Relief Society as prepared by Miss Eliza R
Snow, from the original minutes taken at
the meeting. A preliminary meeting was
held at the residence of Mrs. Sarah M. Kim-
ball, (recently deceased,) at which meeting
Miss Eliza R. Snow was present, and it was
decided at that time to consult President
Joseph Smith about an organization. Ac-
cordingly, the meeting was called by his
appointment.
	Elder John Taylor was called to the chair
and Elder Willard Richards appointed sec-
retary. Meeting commenced by singing,
“The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning,”
Prayer offered by Elder John Taylor.
	It was then moved by President Joseph
Smith and seconded by Mrs. Cleveland, that
a vote be taken to know if all present were
satisfied with each person present and will-
ing to acknowledge them in full fellowship
and admit them to the full privileges of the
institution about to be formed. Vote was
unanimous.
	President Joseph Smith addressed the
meeting to illustrate the objects of the so-
ciety; that the society might provoke the
brethren to good works in looking to the
wants of the poor, searching after objects of
charity, etc.; to assist, by correcting the
morals and strengthening tne virtues of the
community, and save the Elders the trouble
of rebuking, etc. He proposed that the
sisters elect a presiding officer to preside
over them and let that presiding officer
choose two counselors; that he would ordain
them and let them preside over the society
just as the presidency preside over the
Church, and if they needed his instruction,
ask him—he would give it from time to
time. “If any other officers are needed to
carry out the designs of the institution let
them be appointed and set apart. The
minutes of your meetings will be precedents
for you to act upon.” He then suggested
the propriety of electing a presidency to
continue in office during good behavior, or
so long as they should fill the office with
dignity, etc.
	Motioned by Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whit-
ney and seconded by Mrs. Sophia Packard,
that Mrs. Emma Smith be chosen President:
passed unanimously.
	On suggestion of President Joseph Smith
the President-elect made choice of Mrs.
Sarah M. Cleveland and Mrs. Elizabeth Ann
Whitney for counselors.
	The ceremony of ordination was then per-
formed, when President Joseph Smith re-
sumed his remarks, giving instruction how
to govern themselves in their meetings,what
order to observe, how to regulate discussions,
etc., etc., and concluded by saying, “Do
not injure the character of any one; if mem-
bers of the society shall conduct themselves
improperly, deal with them and keep all
your doings within your own bosoms, and
hold all characters sacred.”
	It was then proposed that president Tay-
lor vacate the chair. President Emma
Smith took the chair with her counselors.

[Column 2]
	Elder Taylor moved, seconded by Presi-
dent Joseph Smith, that the society go into
an investigation respecting what name it
should be called. Motion carried unani-
mously.
	President Joseph Smith and Eders John
Taylor and Willard Richards favored the
name Benevolent Society; Mrs. Cleveland
moved that it be Relief Society; and Mrs.
Emma Smith and Miss Eliza R. Snow ar-
gued in favor of Mrs. Cleveland’s choice.
	The discussion was lengthy and interest-
ing, but the decision of the majority was in
favor of Mrs. Cleveland’s choice, and the
name selected and voted upon was Female
Relief Society. (The prefix Female was
many years ago discarded by popular vote
throughout the entire organization.)
	By unanimous vote Miss Eliza R. Snow
was elected Secretary and Miss Phebe M.
Wheeler, Assistant Secretary, and Miss El-
vira A. Cowles, Treasurer.
	President Joseph Smith said, “I now de-
clare this society organized with President
and Counselors according to Parliamentary
usages, and all who shall hereafter be ad-
mitted into the Society must be free from
censure and received by vote.”
	Elder Taylor addressed the meeting say-
ing he was much gratified in seeing a meet-
ing of this kind in Nauvoo; his heart re-
joiced when he saw the most distinguished
characters stepping forth in a cause which
was calculated to bring into exercise every
virtue and give scope to the benevolent feel-
ings of the female heart. He rejoiced to see
this institution according to the laws of
heaven; his prayer was that the blessings of
God and the peace of heaven might rest up-
on this institution henceforth.
	President Joseph Smith gave a five dollar
gold piece to commence a Relief Society
Fund and said, “Whatever I do hereafter
for charity. I shall do through this society.”
	Sarah M. Kimball gave $1.00, Elizabeth
Ann Whitney, 50 cts., Emma Smith, $1.00
Sarah M. Cleveland, 12 1/2 cts., Willard Rich-
ards, $1.00, Elder John Taylor $2.00.
	The names of the sisters present at this
meeting were: Emma Smith, Martha
Knight, Elvira A. Cowles, Sarah M. Cleve-
land, Phebe Ann Hawkes, Margaret A.
Cook, Desdemona Fulmer, Elizabeth Ann
Whitney, Sarah M. Kimball, Elizabeth
Jones, Leonora Taylor, Eliza R. Snow,
Sophia Packard, Bathsheba W. Smith,
Sophia Robinson, Phelanda Herrick, Phebe
M. Wheeler, and Sophia R. Marks.
	After singing, “Now, Let us Rejoice in
the Day of Salvation” prayer was offered
and meeting adjourned for one week.


[Column 1]
		PUBLIC RECEPTION. 
	The General Board of the Relief Society 
gave a public reception in the new Head-
quarters in the Bishop’s Building on Mon-
day, February 28, 1910, in honor of the 82nd 
anniversary of the birthday of the secretary 
(Aunt Emm. Wells). Although Aunt Emm. 
was born on February 29, 1828, and only 
has a real birthday once in four years, and 
in the year nineteen hundred there was no 
29th, yet her friends insist on a “make be-
lieve” birthday, three years out of the four. 
	The reception was from four o’clock to 7
p.m., and it is estimated there were about 
six hundred people called.
	Clive’s Band furnished exquisite music, 
which added greatly to the enjoyment of the 
guests; simple refreshments were served by 
young women and girls, who delight in 
these social functions. The members of the

[Column 2]
General Board were a receiving committee, 
and enjoyed showing every possible atten-
tion to those who called during the after-
noon. President Bathsheba W. Smith sat 
by the side of Aunt Emm. and received with 
her, shaking hands with all who came to 
offer their congratulations. 
	The several rooms at the headquarters 
were in gay attire, the profusion of beauti-
ful flowers (all of them gifts from dear 
friends) were tastefully arranged, and to-
gether with the potted plants and palms, 
loaned from the Temple conservatory, dis-
posed here and there, made of the apart-
ments a very delightful picture, almost like 
fairyland, though in midwinter. 
	It was a very great occasion, and gratify-
ing to those who participated, and never to 
be forgotten by the one in whose honor the 
reception was so generously given. 
	There was real enjoyment in seeing so 
many of the faithful workers in the Relief 
Society, and the many dear friends of former 
days and times, and withal many newer 
friends, who are also equally dear, because 
of congenial companionship and afflliation
along lines of progress and advancement, 
which is so aptly expressed in the club 
motto, “Unity in Diversity,” is indeed com-
pensation rich in value, and makes one for-
get, at least for the time being, that one is 
really under obligations for so much atten-
tion; and that helps, for really one feels, 
when receiving the congratulations of the 
multitude, that there are no words to express 
the gratitude one feels who is the recipient 
of such an ovation. 
	In the evening a small company met in 
the handsome reception room of the Relief 
Society in the Bishop’s Building, which was 
a bower of flowers of a beautiful variety of 
color, and the air was fragrant with sweet-
ness, and everything possible had been ar-
ranged with a view to bestowing pleasure 
and enjoyment for the invited guests, as 
well as the lady whom they met to honor. 
President Bathsheba W. Smith, and the 
members of the General Board, with their 
husbands or escorts, were present, and 
there was a most heavenly feeling pervad-
ing the apartments. 
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry, as mis-
tress of ceremonies, managed with tact and 
proved herself a perfect mistress in the art 
of pleasing all, and proved a host in
herself.
	The hymn, “Now let us rejoice in the day 
of salvation,” was sung, Sister Amy B. Ly-
man accompanist on the piano. President 
F. M. Lyman offered the opening prayer, 
which was very impressive and inspiration-
al, and touched all hearts with its eloquent 
simplicity and tenderness. 
	There were present President Anthon H. 
Lund and wife, President F. M. Lyman and 
wife, Elder H. J. Grant, Elder B. H. Rob-
erts and wife, Elder J. Golden Kimball and 
wife, and Col. Willard Young and wife. 
Other guests were relatives of Aunt Emm., 
of the Whitney and Wells families, and 
members of the Board and husbands or 
escorts, and children and grandchildren of 
Mrs. Wells. 
	President Lund, Elders H. J. Grant, B. 
H. Roberts, J. Golden Kimball, Rulon S. 
Wells, Joseph S. Wells, each made short 
speeches congratulatory and commenting 
upon the life and work of Aunt Emm. in a
most dignified and interesting way, and ex-
pressing the most sincere regard and appre-
ciation of her efforts for the good of those 
with whom she had labored so long and 
arduously.


Heber K. Aldous sang the beautiful
hymn “O my Father.”
	President Bathsheba W. Smith spoke of
the lifelong friendship, that had extended
over half a century, and the love and union
that had never failed through all the
years.
	Aunt Emm’s response was full of love for
all, and gratitude to her many friends who
had showered her with gifts and favors and
good-will, more than could ever be repaid,
but the love she had in her heart for them
was boundless. Thanked all who had mani-
fested such appreciation of her work, and
hoped she might be worthy of their love and
remain faithful to the end.
	Brother Aldous sang “Our mountain home
so dear,” composed by Aunt Emm., in which
all present joined and the benediction was
pronounced by Col. Willard Young.
	The daintiest refreshments were served by
the sweetest young girls, and the birthday cake
was brought in, the eighty-two wax candles
lighted, and the guests were invited to try
blowing out the candles, after a little time,
to see how many each one could extinguish.
Several of the gentlemen tried and succeeded
in putting out most of them. This created
a little merriment, and there was a little good-
natured sparring between the Whitneys and
the Wells’s as to which had the best claim
on Aunt Emm.
	Altogether the affair was very pleasant
and a perfect success in the way of enjoy-
ment. Although Aunt Emm. feels she can
never in any way repay her many friends
for the loving gifts so generously bestowed
and the flowers, that she so dearly loves, which
were sent from florists, as well as her near
and dear friends.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.
 		JUAB STAKE.
	A conference of the Juab Stake Relief
Society convened in the Tabernacle at
Nephi, March 25, 1910, President Unity
Chappell presiding. The speakers were
President Chapppell, Counselor Priscilla
Lunt, Presidents E. H. Grace and J. W.
Ord, and Sister Ann Garrett, the latter speak-
ing in the gift of tongues. The speakers all
told of the great progress and growth of this
Relief Society, since it was organized; and
the support and benefit it had been to the
Church, and felt that with them there
was no such word as fail.
	Each ward in the stake was represented,
and very good reports were given by all.
	President Chappell read a letter from
President Bathsheba W. Smith, which was
full of love and encouragement to the sis-
ters.
	Sister Chappell urged the young mothers
to take hold of this work, as it would surely
fall upon their shoulders to carry it on.
	A full choir was in attendance and furn-
ished some beautiful music, and a very
profitable time was enjoyed.
				SADIE COLE,
					Stake Secretary.


UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the regular 50th Relief Society
Conference of Uintah Stake of Zion, held in
Maeser Ward, February 20, 1910, beginning
at 2. p. m. We had a good attendance of
brethren and sisters, President Nancy A.
Colton presiding.
	After the usual exercises, the Sacrament


was administered. President Colton wel-
comed the brethren and sisters and spoke
of the sickness in the valley; we should be
united and one sister help the other look
after the sick.
	Song by a group of little boys and girls
led by Ethelwynne Collett, accompanied
by Hazel Allen.
	Lecture by Anna Smart entitled “The
Best Discipline for Character Building,”
which was very ably handled.
	Recitation by Ada Winder entitled “Lit-
tle Rose Bud.”
	Stake Presidency represented by Elders
Reuben S. Collett and Harris W. Woolley.
	Elder Harris W. Woolley had been edified,
but the thought had come to him how we
were to reach the ideas that had been placed
before us? I think, said he, the only way
is to be united in our efforts and then we
will reach the point.
	He referred to the lecture and recitations
which had been given, also spoke of the
books our children should read.
	Song by Bathera Young accompanied by
Hazel Allen.
	Elder Reuben S. Collett had been much
impressed by what President Colton had
said in regard to helping the sick, urged the
sisters to be neighborly in times of sickness,
he urged each and every one to know the
kind of companions and books our children
have.
	Counselor Annie K. Bartlett in behalf of
the Stake Board, thanked the Bishopric of
Maeser Ward for letting us have this house
Sunday afternoon, thinking we wanted to
get more of the brethren to come; spoke of
letting little boys play marbles for keeps,
it is a little thing, but it might lead to
greater evils.
	Mary H. Stringham spoke of the anniver-
sary on the 17th of March, the day the Re-
lief Society was first organized; she invited
all to be present.
	Conference odjourned for three months to
be held in Glines Ward.
	Singing, “Count Your Many Blessings.”
	Benediction by Patriarch Nelson Merk-
ley.
		PHEHE A. MERKLEY, Secretary.


CELEBRATION OF ANNUAL DAY.
Editor Exponent:
	The Relief Society of the St. Joseph
Stake celebrated Annual Day, Masch 17, at
Thatcher, beginning at 11 a. m., in the
Amusement Hall, Pres. Elizabeth W. Lay-
ton, presiding. A program was rendered,
in which a speech of welcome and response,
vocal and instrumental music, and recita-
tions were given by members of the differ-
ent wards. These numbers all had a bear-
ing on the original progress and results of
this organization given to women sixty-
eight years ago, by the Prophet Joseph
Smith.
	At the close of the program a sumptuous
repast was partaken of by all the brethren
and sisters present, numbering about two
hundred.
	At 2.30 the Bazaar opened. Articles from
all the booths were in such demand that
they readily sold, and by 6 p. m., the bazaar
closed. An amusing program was rendered
at different periods during the afternoon.
	An entertainment by the Home Dramatic
Company was given in the evening, for the
benefit of the Society, and the house filled
to its utmost capacity. The day and eve-


ning were a decided success both socially 
and financially and will long be remem-
bered by the good sisters of this stake. 
	JOSEPHINE KIMBALL, Secretary.


ANNUAL DAY IN UNION, OREGON.
	Minutes of Relief Society annual meeting
held March 17, 1910, at 2 p. m., in the
meeting house, President Mary H. Dalton
presiding. First Counselor Rebecca E.
Weatherston conducting. Singing, “We
thank thee, O God, for a prophet.” Prayer
by Sister Gladys Baxter. Singing, “Sow-
ing.” Minutes of annual meeting, 1909,
read. Program for both afternoon and
evening had been arranged, but only regu-
lar afternoon services were held on account
of the demise of our beloved sister, Mary
Holladay Richens. She left a husband and
an infant son. Her sudden death cast a
deep gloom over the entire community,
both Gentiles and Saints mourned her loss.
The few short months she lived in Union
were fully occupied in instructing the young
people in singing. Her glee club, her class
of young women and her class of young
men made rapid progress under her instruc-
tion. Her advice was to cultivate the voice
above all things. There was never a day
but that she had some of the young people
about her. Her great heart of love was re-
flected by every one who knew her, and will
remain with them forever. Every moment
was full of activity for the good of others.
	Counselor Rebecca E. Weatherston read a
letter from the stake officers commending
our past labors and encouraging us for the
future and counseling us to celebrate our
annual day.
	Sister Josephine Hanks read the minutes
of the first Relief Society meeting organized.
	President Mary H. Dalton made a few re-
marks on the minutes just read and com-
mented on the Relief Society being a chari-
table organization. Was proud of this ward
organization and the willingness of the sis-
ters in helping in the recent trouble we have
just passed through in our ward. Said we
should not regard our own work when called
to help those in trouble. We cannot ap-
preciate the Gospel too much. The main
thing is to love each other, this is the mis-
sion of the Relief Society. The sisters
should check scandal wherever it is heard,
and it will prove a great blessing to them all.
	Sister Rose H. England said we little
realize the blessings the Lord blesses us
with, and testified to the truthfulness of the
Gospel.
	Sister Eliza Peterson felt the spirit of testi-
mony would leave us if we continued to
quench the spirit. She has a testimony of
the Gospel. A few words will strengthen
us.
	Sister Helena Jenson said the Relief So-
ciety has grown with the Church, it is one
of the greatest, if not the greatest organiza-
tion on the earth. She loves the Relief
Society work. Asked the blessings of the
Lord on all, and especially on the presidency.
	Sister Emily Taylor longs to bear her
testimony, but feels very timid. Loves the
work of the Gospel, and especially that of
the Relief Society.
	Sister Caroline Gilman has a strong testi-
mony to bear. With the help of the Lord
will do all she is called on to do. Hoped
the Relief Society work would grow and
spread.
	Sister Josephine Hanks has had her pray-
ers answered many times. We must live


lives of purity in order to have the holy
Spirit abide with us. Mothers must set the
example for their daughters to follow.
Prayed we would be able to meet with the
exalted ones when we go on the other side.
	Sister Charlotte Hunter then read an
original poem:
	President Dalton related some incidents
that occurred during the trial of Brother
Richens that showed his great faith and
trust in his Heavenly Father. What could
bring such comfort and trust but the
Gospel?
	Sister Gladys Baxter bore her testimony,
said the only way to meet our loved ones
who have gone on the other side is to live
for it. Asked the blessings of the Lord on
all the sisters, that we may be able to over-
look each other’s faults. Sister Caroline
Holling felt the mothers needed the blessings
of the Lord to guide them more than any
one.
	Sister Susie Morton bore her testimony to
the goodness of the Lord toward her.
	Sister Oreta Combs said so many good
things for hope and comfort had been said,
that she hardly knew what she could add
The Gospel was the only thing that had sus-
tained her in the past, few years. Asked
the blessing of the Lord on all the sisters.
She is ready to do all that is required of her,
	Sister Louisa Loveless bore her testimony.
Has been a Relief Society member for 55
years.
	Sister Elnora Jacobs would not feel satis-
fied if she went home without saying a few
words. Her desires are for good and she is
willing to obey counsel. Said we should
never let the sun go down with feelings of
ill will against any one.
	Sister Mary Atkinson bore her testimony
and made other remarks.
	Counselor Rebecca E. Weathereton was
so pleased that all of the sisters had re-
sponded so readily in rising to bear their
testimonies. Said let us do all the good we
can, and as little harm as possible. Be kind
to the mothers who gave us birth, for we
will not always have them with us. Prayed
she would hold steadfast to the end, that
she would be able to meet her loved ones on
the other side. Prayed God to bless us all.
	Sister Helena Jensen spoke of Sister Bath-
sheba Smith being the only living sister who
was at the first Relief Society meeting organ-
ized; that we have always been under the
direction of one of the sisters who was at
that first meeting.
	Sister Mary Atkinson then read a letter
from the Exponent, written by Sister Bath-
sheba W. Smith, to the officers of the Relief
Society.
	Closed by singing “Come, come ye
Saints.” Benediction, Sister Helena Jensen.
		MARY ATKINSON, Acting Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE LAMANITE REMEMBERED.
	When the Prophet Moroni had finished
his records and lain them away, in their
sepulchre of stone on the side of the Hill
Cumorah, the last ray of gospel truth upon
this continent had been entombed and
rested near the crest of the stately hill, which
stood as a sublime monument in the midst
of, perhaps, one of the largest cemeteries
that this earth had ever known.
	Moroni, left to weep alone, and yet, as
his tearful eyes still gazed upon the slayers
of the Nephite nation, he knew they were his
kindred. And while he watched them re-
cede, as they wondered away in disorganized

[Column 2]
bands, his heart yearned after them, and he
prayed, with all the fervor of his soul, that
God would remember them at the last day.
	Who can tell how often he came and
guarded that sacred spot, or how he, with
thousands of his own brethren in the spirit
world, rejoiced when they knew the time
had come which Nephi had seen in his vis-
ion: “And I looked and beheld a man
among the Gentiles who was separated from
the seed of my brethren by the many waters.
And I beheld the Spirit of God that it came
down and wrought upon the man; and he
went forth upon the many waters, even un-
to the seed of my brethren who were in the
promised land.”
	The time had come, and the Spirit whose
eye is everywhere, chose to rest upon a man
away in sunny Italy—Columbus, enamored
of the seas, a designer of maps, whose lines
he ever yearned to carry beyond the limited
horizon of his own native land. A spirit
inexplicable to him had rested upon him. A
powerful influence dominating him with a
spirit of persistence which withstood the
ridicule and jeers of those whom he impor-
tuned, and of the public in general, for the
space of many years, until finally a woman
listened to and gave him sympathy and
support, dropping the jewels from her royal
fingers, raised her hand to help him.

		Again the oft-repeated story,
		A woman helped him on to glory.

	And from the position of laughing stock
for the public, he became commander-in-
chief of three small vessels, to carry him
whither he might wander, even to other
climes and skies anew, until he might satis-
fy the longing of his soul to set his feet on
some unknown land.
	Led by a mighty faith, some invisible
magnet drawing him on until, finally his
eyes beheld the Promised Land, and he saw
the shores of the same great continent which
had been discovered by the family of Lehi
hundreds of years before.
	The very breezes welcomed him by hold-
ing the flag of Spain aloft in their embrace.
The natives, realizing as little the meaning
of that fluttering banner as did Columbus
understand the magnitude of the work he
had accomplished. Centuries have passed,
and we ask in what way have the native
children of this vast continent been bene-
fitted by the numerous colonizers who have
followed on the ocean trail of Columbus?
	The “mysterious ways” of Providence
have drawn from Spain and diffused among
the more numerous powerful tribes two in-
estimable blessings. The Spanish language
has been as connecting wires between vil-
lages and cities long estranged and antag-
onistic to each other. The Catholic priests
did a commendable work in their untiring
zeal to teach them a language which was a
great factor in bringing the inhabitants of
Mexico together and uniting them in organ-
izing government. If she did not send the
fullness of the true faith she sent them what-
ever remants of it she had in her possession.
She announced to them the existence ot a
Redeemer, even though she despoiled them
and remunerated herself richly for the glim-
mer of light she had thrown around them.
These two incalculable blessings have paved
the way to a greater work. Even as the
three small ships of Columbus marked the
way for mightier ones, so these blessings of
language and a belief in the savior have
opened the way for a fullness of all the
blessings of the gospel.
	A universal language was indespensible

[Column 3]
in unfolding to them the contents of the rec-
ords of their forefathers and the great truths
they contain, which would have been utterly
impractible in their hostile and divided con-
dition, amid the confusion of their numer-
ous and degraded dialects.
	The prayer of Moroni has beem remem-
bered, and the way has been opened for the
salvation of the remnant of the seed of the
Lamanites. May we, who are in possession
of the sacred record, be as diligent and have
as much zeal for them as did the Catholic
church in giving them the most musical and
sublime of all modern languages.
		S. T. BRIMHALL FOLEY.


AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
[LIFE AND TRAVELS OF NANCY M. TRACY.]
		(Continued from page 39.)
	My ninth and last son was born the 19th
of June, in 1854. Charles Albert, my second
son living, was called to go among the
Lamanites, and then my eldest son, Eli A.,
went. They called the place where they
went Fort Supply, but in the winter Eli, the
eldest, was brought home very sick with
mountain fever. His wife, Eliza A. Tracy,
stayed with me, for they had married the
Christmas before. He was brought home
very sick, and lay in a low state for a long
time, but good nursing, such as a wife and
mother can give, brought him all right in due
time. In the spring he went back and took
his wife with him, and their first child was
born while they were there. When the child
was six months old they came home.
	In the spring of 1857, April 25, Mosiah,
our son, went to California. This grieved
us sorely and caused us to mourn. If we
had buried him by the side of his brother
we would not have felt as we did under the
circumstances that he went away under, but he
became dissatisfied with what had transpired
and, to use his own language, he said, under
existing circumstances, he could not stay
here. His father said, as he bid him good-
by, that he would never see him again, and
he never did.
	This spring we moved back on our farm
from the Fort. My husband was sick a
good deal of the time, and did not like to
travel back and forth to see after his work,
so we came back in September the 18th,
1857.
	My first daughter was born, this being my
tenth child. It being our first girl, we
thought to give her a long name—Mary
Ellen Naomi.
	That winter the brethren were out nearly
the whole winter keeping back Johnston’s
army, but my husband’s health was so poor
he could not go with the rest. It was the
first time he had ever stayed behind when
there had been any trouble, he was constant-
ly worrying and fretting because he could
not go with the brethren; he was too sick.
	In the spring of ’58 word came from our
leaders that we were all to move south, so
we had no seed put in the ground, because
we did not expect to be here to harvest, and
if the army came in to take possession the
people were intending to commit the whole
to the flames before they should possess the
dwellings and houses of the Saints; and
after the desert had been subdued from a
wild waste and made to yield abundantly
and bloom with the bounties of the earth. I
say the Saints were going to make one gen-
eral sacrifice. There were men left to watch
their movements while the Saints were


[Column 1]
traveling south. Eli A., our eldest son,
was one that stayed. He sent his wife
and child on with the rest to the south. All
the help I had was Austin. He was four-
teen years old; the team to drive and loose
stock, husband sick and baby in my arms,
it was worse than it was in crossing the
plains for me. When we got to Salt Lake
City, we stopped for a month and then
moved on. The towns were nearly all
vacated. We got as far as Provo, and my
husband had three paralytic strokes, but in
a few days we traveled on with him, got as
far as Payson and could go no further with
him. We camped and built a shade with
willows, to break off the hot sun by day
and the dew by night. In this situation I
remained with him day after day, not ex-
pecting he would live. Sister Jane Calvin,
a widow, with her family, was camped near
by. She used to help me when she could.
These were trying times and hard times. My
children, too, were getting destitute of
clothing, but I did not allow myself to mur-
mur or complain. My husband said if he
could live to see his family in their home
once more he would be willing then to die,
and the Lord granted him the desire of his
heart, for there had been a compromise
made with the army, and they were to pass
through and go to their quarters peaceably,
and word came that all could go back to
their homes. We did not stay long after
this message came, but took my sick hus-
band and started for home. We got there
on the fourth day of July, and were truly
thankful to get to a place of rest. My hus-
band was so glad to get back that he revived
and went around the place to look after
things, and tried to save some volunteer
wheat, for that was all that grew on the
place in this year. He kept around until
the 1st of August, then was prostrated and
never rallied again, and died on the 25th of
the same month, 1858. His sufferings were
very great until death relieved him. Our
eldest son was not at home and did not
know of his father’s death. There were only
three wagons to go with me to bury him.
The people had but few of them returned
from the move south.
	I felt very lonely and worn down, but God
strengthened me in my afflictions, as He
ever had in all my sorrow, and made me
equal to every task in all our married life,
which had been twenty-eight years. We
had been mobbed and driven from place to
place. The longest we had ever lived in
one place was in Nauvoo; we lived there
eight years, before our expulsion from Illi-
nois. We moved twice while there, but it
was to better our condition.
	In two or three weeks after I buried my
husband my litile girl, now one year old,was
taken very sick, and I thought for a while that
she would follow her father. It seemed that
my cup of sorrow was running over, but the
Lord heard my prayers, and she was raised
up to me again.
	I had received letters from my son, Mos-
iah, who had been gone two years. He
gave me his address, and I wrote to him of
his father’s death, and how he grieved
about him. He wrote to me that he would
come home, if his life was spared, but he has
never come, and whether dead or alive, I
know not.
	Winter was approaching, my children des-
titute of clothing, and but little to feed
them on; I did not know what to do. I
had my hay cut, and had more than my
stock would consume. I had a chance to
sell some for shoes and store pay, which I

[Column 2]
was glad to do. This helped me out for the
winter. I think I sold twenty dollars worth
of hay. I felt very grateful for this bless-
ing; this scant allowance had to fit us up
for the winter, but it was not sufficient for
our comfort,for by my husband’s lengthy ill-
ness and death, and not raising anything on
account of the move to the south, we were
left in close circumstances.
	Spring came again. I tried to put in
what seed I could get, it was very hard to
get seed. I borrowed some wheat to sow by
giving interest, and got along the best I
could under the circumstances. Hard times
stared me in the face, until harvest came.
This was new to me, to have to manage out-
door affairs. I was not equal to the task,
my eldest son had a family of his own to
take care of, and the one left to help me was
only fifteen years old, and was all the help
I had; consequently, as my husband’s
brother’s farm adjoined mine, he proposed
looking after our interests and working the
farm. I consented to this proposition, and
was married to him for time, April, 1860. I
felt this would release me from so great a
care and responsibility as I had resting upon
me. I felt completely worn down with toil
and hardship, of which my whole life had
been made up. After embracing the Gos-
pel it had been one continual scene of perse-
cution and sacrifice of our property, from
our first gathering with the Saints in Kirt-
land, Ohio. Sometimes I felt I could not
endure any more, and then the Heavenly
Father would strengthen me and I felt to be
humble and prayerful, knowing that God’s
people always had to suffer persecution. I
felt that my religion was more to me than
all the world might be, and I felt deter-
mined to live it, let come what would,
Through all my sufferings I never doubted,
but felt to cling to the Gospel, as also to en-
courage others all in my power to do the
same. I also felt to teach my family the
principles of the true and everlasting Gospel,
to listen to and obey the counsels of the
Lord’s anointed.
	In September, 1861, I had a daughter born
by this second husband. I was now forty-
four years of age and broken down in health,
but, with the help of God, was enabled to
attend to my household duties and take care
of my children, besides making what home
wear I could to clothe them. It is a marvel
to me now, when I look upon my past life,
my journeyings in poverty, persecution, sac-
rifice and sufferings, midst sickness and
death, I say, I marvel that I am alive today
to tell the tale, and it is more than the
power of mortal man that has sustained and
preserved me see 1885 ushered in. It is
truly a day that is great with events, and
none but the true Latter-day Saints under-
stand the signs of the times and the fulfill-
ment of prophecy on the earth. The wicked
are slaying the wicked, the earthquakes, de-
struction by sea and by land, collisions of
cars on railroads and nation rising against
nation, as has been told us by the prophets.
Has it not been said that those who will
not take up the sword would flee to Zion?
This will come true, for the Latter-day Saints
will be the only people at peace, and wil

[Column 3]
cling to the Constitution to save it, while the
enemies are threshing it into shreds and are
full of animosity and hatred towards the
Kingdom of God, and truly when the wicked
rule, the people mourn. But when we see
all these things taking place, we know the
end is near and the Kingdom of God will
prevail, therefore let us be firm and true,
for it must needs be that offences come, but
woe to them by whom they come.
	I will now make an end of my narrative,
and perhaps in the future my children’s chil-
dren may read with some degree of interest
this short history, although not a hundredth
part hath been told. Farewell.
			(THE END.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
					67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY		LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS	TRY US
					OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.


Mary G. White
								WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 38.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL, 1910.						No. 9.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
Mark Twain.......................................A. W. C.	65
Mothers’ Day.....................................A. W. C.	65
A Remarkable Woman (Illustrated)................	65
Gems from Mary Johnston.............................	66
Ninety Years of Age.......................................	67
Successful Socials..........................................	67
Brief History of a Famous Woman.................	70
Relief Society Stake Reports:—Ogden, Nebo	72
Editorial:—A Tribute......................................	68
	Land and Inheritances.............................	68
	“The Story of Mormonism”....................	69
	General Relief Society Conference.........	69
In Memoriam...................................................	71
Obituary...........................................................	72
Poetry:—The Bravest Battle... Joaquin Miller	65
	Hymn......................................................	65
	Be of Good Cheer........William W. Story	65
	Resignation......................Emilie Maeser	66
	To Julia...........................Mary A. Freeze	67


THE BRAVEST BATTLE.
The bravest battle that ever was fought!
	Shall I tell you where and when?
On the maps of the world you will find it not;
	’Twas fought by the mothers of men.

Nay, not with cannon, or battle shot,
	With sword or noble pen;
Nay, not with eloquent word or thought,
	From mouths of wonderful men.

But deep in the walled-up woman’s heart—
	Of woman that would not yield,
Bnt bravely, silently bore her part—
	Lo! there is that battle field!

No marshaling troop, no bivouac song;
	No banner to gleam and wave!
But, oh! these battles, they last so long—
	From babyhood to the grave!
                                 —Joaquin Miller.


HYMN.
“Leave God to order all thy ways
And hope in Him whate’er betide
Thou’ll find Him in the evil days,
Thine all-sufficient Strength and Guide,
Who trusts in God’s unchanging love
Builds on the Rock that none can move.”


BE OF GOOD CHEER.
		BY WILLIAM W. STORY.
Be of good cheer, ye firm and dauntless few,
	Whose struggle is to work an unloved good!
	Ye shall be taunted by revilings rude,
Ye shall be scorned for that which ye pursue;
Yet faint not, but be ever strict and true;
	Greatness must learn to be misunderstood;
	And persecution is their bitter food
Who the great promptings of the spirit do.
Though no one seem to hear, yet every word
	That ye have linked unto an earnest thought
Hath fiery wings, and shall be clearly heard
	When your frail lips to silent dust are brought.
God’s guidance keeps those noble thoughts that
	chime
With the great harmony, beyond all time!
								—Ex.


MARK TWAIN.
	In the hurry and rush of life, in this age
of steam and electricity, of stocks and
bonds, of aviators and dirigibles, when
humanity seems rushing alone the stream of
life at a break-neck speed to see who can
outdo his neighbor, what a relief it is to
know that God still lives, and that some-


where among this hurrying mass there are a
few sweet spirits, who can retreat to seques-
tered spots and allow the genius of the
mind to play upon life’s harp and bring
forth music to the soul. No matter how
great the resources of the world may be,
her richest and most precious treasures will
ever be the work of gifted souls. Many
may build halls and palaces, but it is gen-
ius that adorns them. America is mourn-
ing now one of her most gifted sons—Mark
Twain—but he has left his country so rich a
legacy that though his soul has crossed the
bar, his name is emblazoned ever in the
book of fame. It has not, perhaps, ever
occurred before in the history of the world
that a man’s genius should be so marked in
the line of humor. The musicians, the
painters, the writers of greatest fame for
ages past, are those who have taken the
serious, the grand, the divine, the magnifi-
cent themes of heaven and earth for sub-
jects. Then what has Mark Twain done?
Why, he has made the world happy, he has
made the world laugh.
	The busy financier on the train to some
important gathering has forgotten all his
anxieties and sat in silent laughter, perusing
the pages of “Innocence Abroad” so lost in
the mirth of the folded leaves that the porter
has to recall him to his normal condition
when it is time to leave the train. The tired
laborer, after the evening meal, too tired to
sleep, refreshes his soul with a chapter from
“Roughing It,” and after a hearty laugh
has aided his digestion, lies down to pleas-
ant dreams. The helpless invalid in the
roller-chair sits in the park or on the beach
and forgets the pains and sufferings of the
body and chuckles over the discomfitures of
“An American Client,” while busy men re-
new their boyhood, and school boys make
laughter ring over the adventures of Tom
Sawyer and Huckelberry Finn. Women and
girls are stirred to their souls over the heroic
story of “Joan of Arc,” as told by Mark
Twain, and all through the many volumes
where mirth and humor reign, is such a
strain of true philosophy, and such a high
ideal of the lighter vein of life that one
loves the man who thus portrays and gives
to us the silver lining instead of the murky
clouds. One of the brightest stars in Amer-
ica’s constellation is Mark Twain, and when
we talk of monuments to great men let us
not forget the man who made the world to
laugh.
						A. W. C.


MOTHER’S DAY.
“The men of earth build houses—halls and
	chambers, roofs and domes,
The women of the earth—God knows! the women
	build the homes.”

	Mother’s Day—what a word of beauty,
grace and rhythm! Why set apart a day to
worship mother? Is not every day, yea
every hour hers? Who so fills the heart of
man, who so prompts the soul to good, who
so guards the way, as mother? If not by
her presence, by the remembrance of her
teachings, by the influence of her prayers,
Sanctified is she, for the crossing the shadow


of death to give us life. Sanctified for the
succor and nourishment of infancy, for the
guiding and care of childhood, the guard-
ing and delight of youth, the sharing and
help of sorrows and cares that follow one in
manhood. Oh, blessed name, what gar-
lands enhance, what jewels magnify the lus-
tre of your crown! The halo of motherhood
is an adornment for angels, a glory for life
eternal.
	And yet—how sweet the thought that one
day in all the year we can wear some flower,
express some thought, show in some open
way our reverence, our love, our adoration
for the queens of the earth—the mothers.
                                                   A. W. C.


A REMARKABLE WOMAN.
MARGARET P. C. MORRISON.
	Sister Morrison whose demise occurred
Jan. 10, 1910, at Mount Pleasant, Utah,
was a very remarkable character, and one
of the most devoted sisters in the Relief
Society and in the Church. She had lived
to a good old age and her days had been
full of usefulness and rich in the service of
others beside her own family for many
years.

[Image of a woman]

MARGARET F. C. MORRISON.
	Sister Morrison’s maiden name was
Cruikshank, her parents were William
Cruikshank and Mary Farquhar Cruikshank
and she was born in Aberdeen, Scotland,
June 5, 1823, her parents were honest up-
right people in good circumstances and she
received a good common school education,
but being the eldest daughter of a large
family, she was needed at home to assist her
mother in domestic duties in which she
took an especial delight,and was trained in
the home to do everything well, Sister Mor-
rison says, “My dear mother used to say.
‘Maggie whatever you do, do it well, it will
not hurt you to have thorough knowledge
and understanding of what a housewife’s
duty is,’ and,” she adds, “my mother’s kind


[Column 1]
admonition and valuable instructions have
been the joy of my life, and have constantly
been a silent monitor to guide me along
life’s journey,”
	Miss Cruikshank was married December
22, 1843 to William Morrison in the Free
Presbyterian Kirk at Aberdeen by the Rev.
David Simpson, a minister of that church
of which she was a member. She speaks of
her husband as a young man of good repu-
tation who had many noble qualities of
head and heart, he also had received the
advantages of a classical education and was
a fine Latin scholar, and the young couple
began life’s journey together with youth,
health and much happiness and bright pros-
pects before them. In the spring of 1844
the husband received an appointment in
Her Majesty’s Dockyard, Shumess, Kent,
England, and they moved there and on
October 30 of that year a son was born to
them, he was named Arthur Bruce Morrison,
nothing transpired to mar the pleasure of
the home for about three years, then the
husband was taken very ill and in conse-
quence he applied for a removal which Her
Majesty granted immediately, and they re-
moved to Woolwich, where they lived for
some years.
	In the summer of 1848, Mrs. Morrison
made a visit to the home of her childhood,
Aberdeen, Scotland, the home gathering
was a joyful one, while the large company
of relatives were seated at dinner after the
arrival of Sister Morrison and the child, one
of the Aunts remarked “What a sweet boy
that is,” when most unexpectedly the reply
was made, “I’m not a boy. I’m a man,”
which naturally created a ripple of laughter,
he being the first grandchild in the family.
	About six weeks later another son was
born to Mrs. Morrison and named Andrew
Cruikshank Morrison, and soon the mother
began to think of returning home with her
two beautiful boys, and now came the first
trying ordeal. The eldest son was taken
with scarlet fever and died on his birthday
Oct. 31 1848, this was her first great sorrow.
It seemed the way was being opened for a
new era in their life history.
	In the month of November they heard
the Gospel preached by Elder Thomas
Bradshaw, and believing in the divine auth-
enticity of the work, and with a firm deter-
mination to serve God and keep His com-
mandments unitedly, they were baptized for
the remission of sins and had hands laid on
them for the reception of the Holy Ghost.
With the signs following this great event,
their aim was to gather to Zion and their
future course was shaped accordingly.
	To the writer such incidents in the lives
of our people are very interesting, and show
plainly the Lord’s dealings with those, whom
He has called to serve Him and do His
work in these latter days. Many circum-
stances transpired about this time in Mrs.
Morrison’s father’s family that had a direct
bearing upon their future welfare. Mrs.
Morrison’s father received an appointment
that caused him to break up his home in
Scotland and move to Dartmoor, Devon-
shire, England, and with his family he made
a new home there; in the meantime her sis-
ter Isabella married Mr. James Treston and
came to reside near the Morrisons in Wool-
wich; her death occurred in Feb. 1852, this
was a great sorrow, and about that time a
daughter was born to Mrs. Morrison, this
was her second daughter, both her beautiful
boys had died and she felt her sorrow was
more than she could endure, but the Lord
in his mercy and goodness gave her strength

[Column 2]
equal to her day, and she was able to meet
with fortiude every emergency. After this
the family commenced in good earnest to
prepare for the journey to America, the land
of their adoption. The time set was April,
1854, and accordingly all the arrangements
were made preparatory to leaving England.
	In the fall of 1853 her father came to make
a visit and take a last farewell, and he
thought perhaps he could prevail upon them
to change their views on religious matters;
but in this he found he was mistaken, fail-
ing in this he tried to get his daughter to
consent not to see her mother again, but she
would not at any price, and soon after he
returned home, Mrs Morrison with her two
little girls, and her motherless nephew, left
to pay her mother a visit in Devonshire, her
youngest brother was living in Aberdeen and
she visited them all and had a most delight-
ful time. Her mother would listen to the
Gospel reasoning and was greatly benefited
with the conversations. At last the hour
came when she must part with her beloved
mother and the parting was most painful,
she never saw her again, her father too shed
tears, something she had never witnessed
before in all her life. However he found
she had a will of her own, and could not be
persuaded from the right path even by him,
he confessed he was proud of her but could
not see things in the light that she did, yet
he admired her courage and her parents
both said their constant aspiration should
be for her future happiness and prosperity,
and if ever she was in need of help to call
on them and they would help her to the ex-
tent of their ability. Just before leaving
England Mrs. Morrison received a letter
frem her mother containing some very path-
etic verses, expressing her great love and
good wishes also entering into the deepest
emotions of the mother-heart in parting with
one dearer than life itself.
	Sister Morrison says in a sketch written
for reference, “I loved my mother with a
love unspeakable and hope she will be the
first to greet me with my husband and
“Tina” when my spirit leaves this earthly
body.” “Tina” was her youngest daughter
whose death she mourned deeply.
	The Morrisons sailed from Liverpool,
England, on the Germanieus, on the 6th of
April, 1854, the journey across the Atlantic
was long and tedious, eleven weeks from
date of starting before they reached New
Orleans, all were in good health, not one of
the family had been sea-sick, not an hour,
the next day the party sailed for St. Louis
and were two weeks on the Mississippi river,
when reaching their destination, the pass-
engers were not permitted to land, but the
boat was towed back to a small island near
by where they had to remain by order of
the authorities, and they had only been there
one day when the people began to take
sick and in one week’s time 80 persons died
of cholera. Sister Morrison had a severe
attack but through the mercy of God she
was restored to health, a petition was sent
to the authorities to allow the people to
leave that dreadful place, but in many cases
it was too late for disease laid hold of its
victims and many were doomed to an early
grave, and among the number were Sister
Morrison’s two darling girls and the orphaned
son of her sister, they all three lay side by
side in the Holy Ghost cemetery in St. Louis
Mo. Surely her sorrow was great, left
childless in a strange land broken down in
body, she says, “it seemed to her then as if
nothing could compensate for the loss she
had sustained,” yet the Lord was mindful

[Column 3]
of her and in January, 1855, a daughter was
born to the sorrowing parents, that brought
sunshine to their home once more, but they
were only permitted to enjoy her sweet com-
pany for a short period, in November of
the same year they were robbed of that little
blossom by death.
	It is very painful to contemplate
the sufferings of the Saints in those
early journeyings from distant homes, but
Sister Morrison’s experiences fitted her to
be an instrument in the hands of the Lord
to comfort and console many thousands dur-
ing her life-work.
	In the spring of 1856, Brother and Sister
Morrison again turned their faces Zionward.
			(To be Continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


GEMS FROM MARY JOHNSTON.
	I know women have, many of them, a sin-
uous, an indirect way of approaching and 
of obtaining the object or the end which
they desire. It is a grave fault—perhaps
their gravest. But,	*	*	*	*
who is responsible for it? Today, from half
the pulpits of the land, by the press, by 
whom not, woman is told, “Continue as you
are! Pursue the methods you were forced
to use when you were the cowering mate of
a savage half as strong again as you! Do
as you did when you were Elizabeth of
Hungary, and your lord demanded what you 
carried gathered in your apron. Say as you 
said then, “Roses,” although, in fact, it is
bread for the poor!  Do as you did when
you were Godiva of Coventry. Petition;
and however degrading a price your lord ex-
acts for the lifted tax, pay it! Beg; and if
refused, manoeuvre!” It is not improbable 
that the phrase which, in the next few years,
will become most distasteful to a naturally
self-respecting and straightforward woman
—and there are hundreds of thousands of
such—will be the phrase “indirect influence.”
	Man will remain the more dynamic, wom-
an the more static. He will discover, in-
vent, adorn, draw aside inch by inch the veil
from the face of knowledge, build the ship,
build the sea-wall, the lighthouse, the mu-
seum, and the temple. As with the birds, 
he has the richer song, the more brilliant
plumage. She will conserve the species;
she will instruct the youth of both sexes, and
to a large extent the reins of administration
will fall into her hands. One generation of
practical training, and as admistrator she
will be the equal of man; two generations,
and she will be his superior.
	Women make able sovereigns. The wis-
dom of Pericles was largely the wisdom of
Aspasia. Elizabeth of England will bal-
ance Charles the Fifth, Catherine the Sec-
ond balance Frederick the Great, Victoria
equal Franz Joseph. The list of great sov-
ereigns is long. The list of women who
have been the power behind the throne is
long; the list of able consorts and regents is
long, and the list of women who have influ-
enced the king’s ministers is long. Here is 
native ability, innate power; and, like mur-
der, it will out. There is really no reason to
suppose that in a democracy a woman would
not do well as a town-councilor, as a member
of the board of health, or even, at a pinch,
as a mayor. Maternal instinct is a curious
thing. It is something like nature in that it
can care, with a whole-souled intensity, for 
one little honey-bee winging its way toward
a clover blossom; and also, by a simple act
of expansion, for all the bees in the hive,
and all the clover in the field.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RESIGNATION.
I know not if He heareth all my pleading,
Or why He answers not my every call;
I know not why for me life’s sun is shaded
Nor all the lessons I should learn.

I know not yet His purposes unfolding,
And why some blessings are withheld,
I know not how tomorrow will be ended,
The hour will bring of joy or pain.

But this I know, His will shall be my own—
His hand shall guide my faltering steps,
And lead me on to heights unknown,
Where I shall see His glorious face.
				EMILIE MAESER.


TO JULIA.
Let me tell you why I love you—
	Why we’re to each other dear:
’Tis because we dwelt together
	In a higher, holier sphere.
Reared by the same fond parents,
	Taught in the same great schools— 
E’en the colleges of the nobles,
	And observed their righteous rules.

So, when we met in earth-life,
	The same old kinship true
Brought each unto the other—
	A mystic tie drew me to you.
We see alike the Gospel plan
	Which we had known before;
And we revel in its music,
	Just as we did of yore—

When the morning stars together
	Sang that anthem sweet and grand,
We were ’mong that sacred number—
	That glorious vocal band;
And we heard the mighty shouting
	Of our brothers tried and true,
That another earth’s foundation
	Had been laid—for well we knew
That we should dwell upon it,
	In a second grand estate,
With power to win that glory
	For which all the righteous wait,
And rejoice with Father, mother,
	As in the primeval life,
If we could through this life’s wanderings
	Do good deeds with honor rife.

We were ’mong the highly favored,
	Kept back until latter days,
When the Gospel in its fulness
	Would shed its glorious rays
O’er all of earth’s dominions,
	Uplifting fallen man,
Revealing truths kept hidden,
	According to God’s plan.

Well might His sons be joyful,
	His daughters, too, sing praise,
As, looking down time’s vista,
	They saw these wondrous days,
When they should stand as saviors
	Upon Mount Zion fair,
Redeeming friends and kindred
	In the holy temples there,
That the chains which had been broken
	Might be welded once again,
For great ones thus had spoken,
	And all echoed the amen.

We are of the blood of Israel,
	A noble prince was he,
And we hope to be an honor
	To our royal family.
Tho’ born among the lowly,
	We will rise to heights unknown,
And, as saviors on Mount Zion,
	Be entitled to a throne.
					Mary A. Freeze.


[Column 1]
NINETY YEARS OF AGE.
	Sister Catherine Wingot, now residing in
Monroe, Utah, has recently reached her
ninetieth year, March 12, 1910. This aged
woman has had a remarkable life experi-
ence. She was born March 12, 1820 in
Nelson, Portage County, Ohio, her parents
were Charles Hewlett and Margaret Noah

[Column 2]
Hewlett, they were baptized into the “Mor-
mon Church in February 1830. Catherine
was baptized in the spring of 1831, in
Nelson, Portage County, Ohio, by Simon
Shrider.
	In the spring of 1832, the family moved
to Jackson Co. Missouri, and were driven
out of that county in November, 1833; they
went about sixty miles away into Van Buren
Co, there they stayed a few months only
until with some other Saints they went back
to Jackson Co., to get something to live
upon.
	They next went to Clay Co., Missouri and
remained there about three years afterwards
again went to Far West, from where they
were again driven by the mobs.
	Sister Wingot says when she was about
nineteen years old the family went to Illin-
ois, and settled in a place about thirty
miles from Nauvoo. She well remembers
attending the first conference held in Nau-
voo, on April 7, 1841—conference time—
Catherine Hewlett was married to Cyrus
Wingot. After her marriage she and her
husband moved to Adams Co., Illinois, but
in a short time moved again to Golden
Point, seven miles from Nauvoo.
	At the time of the martyrdom of the
Prophet Joseph and the Patriarch Hyrum
Smith, Sister Wineot’s husband stood
guard in Nauvoo, while she with two little
children stayed in her own home seven
miles away from there.
	After the death of the Prophet they had
to move to Nauvoo for safety.
	Sister Wingot says they left Nauvoo in
1846, and went over into Iowa, where they
lived one year, her husband working at his
trade as a cooper. They started off in the
spring of 1847 and traveled as far as Pisgah
a Mormon camp, a company was fitted out
at that place and her husband was called
as a pioneer to go on and with their three
children came on to Utah that year, and ar-
rived in Utah October 1, 1847. In the spring
of 1848 she says they had one bushel of
grain to put in the ground, and they raised
seven bushels from it though the crickets
took the crops and garden stuff that year,
and the people, as is well known, had little
left to live upon, she says, “we lived mostly
on thistle roots and almost anything we
could get out of the ground.
	The family remained in Salt Lake three
years, then moved to Springville and stayed
there about three years, until they were
called to go to Cedar City, Iron Co., to help
strengthen that place against the Indians.
	Sister Wingot says “my husband died a
few months after we left Springville in 1854,
at that time we had six children, seven
months after his death another daughter
was born.”
	“Afterwards I went back with my chil-
dren to Springville to make my home, and
some years after I married again and had
another child.”
	Sister Wingot is the mother of eight chil-
dren, all well respected in later years she
has lived in Provo and in Payson and also
in Manti, where she resided for ten years.
Since 1871, she has lived in Monroe, with
her children. Her oldest son died two years
and a half ago at the age of 65 years, she
has a large posterity, of grand-children and
great-grand-children and one great-great-
grandchild.
	The sisters who visited her recently and
collected this information for the Woman’s
Exponent testify that her intellect and mem-
ory is very good, and she is able to attend

[Column 3]
meetings at times and bears as strong a
testimony of the Gospel as she ever did,
	Lovingly your Sisters,
			CHRISTINA MORTENSON, 
				Pres. R. S. Sevier Stake,
			MARY M. SWINDLE,
				Secretary.


SUCCESSFUL SOCIALS.
	The Relief Society of the Dublin branch
(Irish conference) met on March 17, 1910,
at the home of Sister Jordan. The elders
laboring in Dublin, and Elder J. T. Wise
from the Newry branch, were present. Pres-
dent Minnie Parker presided and reported
the branch to be in good condition. This
society was organized in 1907 by Sister Ro-
mania B- Penrose.
	At six o’clock Thursday evening, March
17th, 1910, the Saints of the Dublin branch
(Irish conference) met at the meeting room
and enjoyed themselves in a social, celebrat-
ing the anniversary of the organization of
the society, and also St. Patrick’s Day. An
interesting program was rendered, some of
the friends of the Saints giving valuable as-
sistance.
	The Relief Society of the Liverpool branch
(Liverpool conference) gave a fine social on
the evening of March 17th, 1910, the anni-
versary of the organization of this great so-
ciety. A good program was rendered by lo-
cal talent, President Penrose acting as mas-
ter of ceremonies. A feature of the program
was the reading by Sister Penrose of extracts
from the speech delivered by the Prophet
Joseph on that memorable day, March I7th,
1842, when the society was brought into be-
ing, the first women’s society in the world.
	An excellent program was enjoyed by the
Saints of the Swinton branch (Manchester
conference), during the evening of March
19th. The object of the affair was two-fold,
partly for the benefit of the Relief Society
and partly to honor one of the members of
the society who will leave for America short-
ly. A nice work box was given the sister
who is leaving. Over £1 was collected to
aid the society.
	The social held in Forester’s Hall, Hull
(Hull conference), March 21st, 1910, was a
success. It is only fair to say those who
took part as well as those who worked for its
successful outcome, did so in a very credit-
able manner. The listeners are also worthy
mention as they were not few in number.
The program was of a high class. A small
charge was made for admission, which will
go to purchase hymn books for the Sunday
School.
	A fine box party was given under the au-
spices of the Belfast Relief Soeiety at 40
Donegal Street Chambers, Belfast, on Thurs-
day March 17th, 1910, celebrating the sixty-
eighth anniversary of the organization, of the
Relief Society. A lively and entertaining
program was rendered by the elders and
members of the branch. Lunches were pre-
pared by the sisters and arranged two in a
box and sold, the net proceeds going to the
Relief Society to aid them in their labor of
love.		ROMANIA B. PENROSE.


Ellis Meredith, suffragist, author and club-
woman, has been nominated by the new
Citizens’ Party of Denver for election com-
missioner.
	Mme. Curie has been elected a member of
the American Philosophical Society. Hers
was the only woman’s name on the list of
fifteen members elected.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			Woman’s Exponent

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p.m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-	-	APRIL, 1910.


[Column 1]
			A TRIBUTE.
	PRESIDENT JOHN R. WINDER.
	President Winder was not only a pioneer
because of coming early in the fifties to this
valley, but in many lines of business and
affairs in general, certainly one of the most
active, earnest and energetic men in the
Church. Sound in doctrine, and conscien-
tious in principle, fatherly to the young
men in the relations of advice and employ-
ment, all around enterprising and prudent
in whatever he advised or undertook to do,
and he engaged in many enterprises, and
carried them forward with signal success.
	So much has been written of him that it
seems only a repetition to add the little that
is now possible, yet we desire to give our
meed of praise, to a man who has done so
much to build up our commonwealth.
	He will be missed everywhere, in the
Church and in the state, his kindly face and
beaming countenance made one feel better
even to look upon him. Everybody loved
him and trusted him without guarantee, he
needed no passport for wherever he went
his manner and bearing insured confidence
and respect. He bore the stamp of one of
nature’s noblemen. Brother Winder really
lived the simple life, so much talked of and
written about in this our day. True to him-
self, true to his brethren, unflinching in his
integrity in the maintenance of justice and
equity.
	But President Winder has gone after
weeks of patient suffering, hovering as it
were between life and death, he passed
peacefully over to the “other side,” out of
our sight, and we shall see his pleasant
smile no more; until we too may be called
home, to join that innumerable company
who have gone before.
		“Beyond life’s toil and cares,
Its hopes and joys, its weariness and sorrow,
Its sleepless nights, its days of smiles and tears,
Will be an endless life unmarked by years,
		One bright unending morrow.
		Ear hath not heard that song
Of rapturous praise within that shining portal;
No heart of man hath dreamed what joys belong
To that redeemed and happy blood-washed throng,
		All glorious and immortal.”
	The eloquent tributes paid to the memory
of President Winder in the Salt Lake papers
and magazines attest the strength and
and beauty of his long life of vigor and use-
fulness in the work of the Lord in these last
days. He was permitted to receive all the
blessings and privileges pertaining to a ful-

[Column 2]
ness of the Priesthood and exaltation, and
how grateful his family should be that his
career in this probation has entitled them,
if they prove faithful, to a fulness of the
blessings vouchsafed to him. There is no
need to mourn, only to follow in his foot-
steps to reach the heights he has obtained.
The hymns he loved to have sung in the
Temple seem suited to him now no doubt,
“There is Sunshine” in his noble heart to-
day, he has met with his loved ones gone
before and “All is Well.”
	John Rex Winder was born in Biddenden
Kent, England, December 10, 1821. Died
in Salt Lake City, Utah, March 27, 1910.
	The funeral services of this remarkable
man were held in the Salt Lake Tabernacle
at 11 a. m., March 31, 1910. Loving and
eloquent tributes were given by those who
knew him best, and had been closely asso-
ciated with him, and every token of respect
and honor possible paid to him. At the
grave that glorious hymn “Rest, on the
Hillside Rest” was rendered by sweet voices
most touchingly tender.
	To the writer, the saddest and loneliest
one of all, bereft of his society and compan-
onship, is the young wife married to him
some years after he was left without a wife
in that lonely home; he made choice of
Miss Maria Burnham, and it really seemed
a love match, they were devotedly attached
to each other and she has been his constant,
companion, never leaving him for any other
society during the happy years of their
wedded life.
	Our sympathy goes out to this dear,
lonely wife bereft of his solicitude and com-
pany. 
	E’en if weary and broken-hsarted,
		With that which thou deemest loss:
	Although from thy dearest one parted,
		He will help thee bear thy cross;
	And if the ordeal seems cruel,
		Thy Father will make it right,
	And the brighter thy precious jewel
		Will shine in the realms of night.


[Column 1]
	LAND AND INHERITANCES.
	In this wonderful day of great progress in
many directions of activity and skill, it may
seem undesirable and at any rate common-
place to go back to the subject of farms,
homes and grainfields an occupation much
neglected and for some years at least rather
unpopular, with the masses. Conditions
have taken such rapid strides forward that
the tillers of the soil are only thought of as
plodders, and in a sense by the larger num-
ber counted out of society.
	The first commandment given to Adam
after he was cast out of the garden of Eden
was to till the ground (and men are not yet
restored to Eden), and those who really en-
joy life most are agriculturists, they are the
men who are truly the most independent,
and in the course of events according to the
wise, the prudent calculators, and far-seeing
thinkers it will become a positive, necessity
to get more out of the soil to sustain human
life.
	As a nation we are proud of our college
graduates, professors, scientists, mathema-
ticians, musicians, etc., and the many more
who come to the front ranks, but they must
all be fed, and the soil must yield an abun-
dance of the various products thereof, if the
growing millions are to have plenty to sus-
tain life.
	The western land is productive and with
all the facilities of the present day, imple-
ments and machinery far more than was

[Column 2]
ever known before, keeping up a small
farm would be the best investment a young
man could make. The agricultural re-
sources must be developed and farms main-
tained, otherwise all else fails, there must
be bread for the multitude. We cannot be
ignorant of this great fact, that underlies all
human life, whatever else we may do with-
out we must have bread, the staff of life it
is the dependence of all progress, of all
prosperity and of individual existence.
	Doubtless mothers are as much to blame
as fathers in this regard, children should be
taught early not only that all honest work
is honorable, but that tilling the land is up-
lifting in its very nature because it is nearest
to nature’s heart.
	Out-door life and employment tends to
health and longevity. The idea that every
one must own land and cultivate it, was
largely general in earlier times, and in the
18th century in the Eastern States, a man
or a family who were not land owners were
looked down upon.
	The writer recalls the fact that in her
childhood people who lived in rented houses
were not thought on a par with others, now
the tables are turned, so to speak, and living
in crowded apartments without breathing
room scarcely is the height of fashion. To
have and to hold in one’s own right a home
and land gives one an independent feeling
of satisfaction, that is buoyant to the spirit
and soul. The scriptnral saying to sit un-
der one’s own vine and fig tree is significant
strictly speaking.
	The counsel given and the principles in-
culcated and acted upon by Brigham Young
in the settlement of those valleys was cal-
culated to create happiness and a responsi-
bility praiseworthy and beneficial to human
character. That every family should have
a piece of ground, a city lot, sufficient for
building a suitable home and a garden spot
and orchard. This policy was carried out
for rome years, not only was this wise and
expedient but profitable as well, and the
city was beautiful and attractive, artistically
so in the best sense.
	The great authors and statesnen in the
past, many of them have been men who
were fond of out-door occupation, one may
say, for relaxation perhaps, but positively
enjoyed it; it is well known that Gladstone,
one of the greatest statesmen of England,
was noted for felling trees. We as a people
profess to believe in the gospel of work, and
in short it is taught in the Scriptures and the
Doctrine and Covenants, and therefore we
must believe in farms and inheritances and
in owning land; we all know how fre-
quently the Lord has spoken to His people
in different ages of the world upon the sub-
ject of inheritances. It is not possible in a
short article to go into details on this sub-
ject but to sound a warning note to mothers
in reference to teaching the children in the
home, that farming is the one occupation
and that in which men can really feel the most
independent, and that farmers are gentle-
men. It is easy to recall the counsel of
Brigham Young and others on this subject,
especially when the mines began to be
opened here in the West, and how he urged
the people to stay on their farms instead of
running after gold dust. One of the greatest
writers of the day says:
	“Trade and manufacture however profit-
able must yield to the cultivation of lands
in usefulness and dignity.”
	If we go back to first principles every-
thing depends upon the soil; history points
to agriculture, and its varied losses and sue-


cesses as a powerful element in the rise and
fall of nations. The main reliance of France
is its fertile fields and gardens producing
agricultural wealth. It has been calculated
that the vineyards of France are more than
equivalent to the gold and silver mines of
America.
	The food problem is fast becoming a seri-
ous question, and it is not only essential to
our people to store wheat, but to teach the
children of today the dignity of farming of
tilling the soil, and beginning with garden-
ing on a small scale when they are very
young.
	These are merely suggestions, and we do
most earnestly entreat our sisters in the Re-
lief Society to persevere in their efforts to
store grain, and take precious good care of
the little we can collect and add to it as
much as possible while the harvests are
plentiful, and urge the youth of Zion to
maintain the possessions of our people in
the land of Zion, for the homes of the
people are the intrinsic wealth of the land.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


“THE STORY OF MORMONISM.”
	Our people should not think that the facts
and incidents relating to the rise and spread
and growth of Mormonism have been ex-
hausted as yet in what has been published.
We have many writers who have put mat-
ter in concrete form, tracts, pamphlets and
books on this inexhaustible subject, but all
has not been told and there is room for
many more authors and writers to give from
their point of view, stories, poems, and pro-
found histories and short sketches, in fact
Mormonism so called is rich in higher
themes than the ordinary student of the sub-
ject is apt to imagine.
	The new book recently issued by Dr.
James E. Talmage will appeal to a class of
people outside of the Church, in a telling
manner, its simplicity of style, its richness
of language, its depth of religious sentiment,
the graphic manner of interesting the reader
make it altogether a charming narrative for
a pocket companion on a journey or for re-
laxation by the fireside at home.
	It is one of the books that will be read,
and let us hope studied. Perhaps there is
no other body of religious people that re-
quire such a variety of books and of all
kinds of entertainment (and we might add
amusement if we had the courage to say it)
as the Mormons. At any rate we commend
this book by Prof. Talmage to our youth and
to our people generally and to the outside
world. We would like to see it printed in
other languages and sent abroad. From our
standpoint it is high-class literature, and we
are very glad that a busy professional man
like Dr. Talmage has contributed this little
book to the libraries of the people.


[Column 1]
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The conference of the General Relief So-
ciety was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this City, April 1 and 2, 1910, com-
mencing Friday, April 1, at 2 p. m., Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith presiding. There
was a large gathering of members and a few
brethren present. Conference opened with
congregational singing, Sister L. T. Ed-
ward musical director, leading; Sister Ed-
na Coray accompanist—“Guide us O, thou
great Jehovah.” Prayer, Sister Emma S.
Woodruff singing, “Though deep’ning,
trials” etc. President Bathsheba W. Smith’s
“Greeting” welcomed the audience in a few

[Column 2]
tender and gracious words; expressed her
great pleasure in meeting them, and would
like to take them all in her arms and bless
them, every one; she rejoiced to see so many
present, realized the good work they were do-
ing and hoped they would have a good time
while attending the conference.
	The response was made by Sister Margar-
et Romney, president of Ensign Stake Re-
lief Society, who was very much pleased to
respond, she always tried to do the best she
could, felt highly grateful to be present and
to meet our beloved President Bathsheba
W. Smith, felt to bless the name of our
Prophet who organized this great work, and
prayed that every gift of health and joy, and
every good thing she desired be given unto
our dear President, and her life prolonged as
long as she desired. Amen.
	Duet, “I will magnify thee, O God,” Liz-
zie Thomas Edward and Thomas E. Ash-
worth.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry said:
“We should always have gratitude in our
hearts for the beautiful music, and I think
whenever I hear Sister Smith bear her test-
imony of the truth, how blest we are only to
think she is the only woman who was pres-
ent at that great organization of this soci-
ety.” The speaker referred to the lesson she
had given recently, in teaching her class in
the college about the Prophet, and the pic-
ture of the Father and Son appearing to the
Prophet had never come before her as at that
time; told how she had wished for a vision
when she stood on Angel Point in the Grand
Canyon of Colorado; referred to her mother
taking her out at night to see the stars and
moon, and saying to her when she inquired
why she did so, explaining they were the
only things in all the world her mother could
see the same time as she looked upon them.
Sister Dusenberry related a dream she had
that had taught her a beautiful lesson; then
she referred to some of the greatest poets,
alluded to Dante’s tragedy and Milton’s Par-
adise Lost, the greatest epic poem, and it
had been written late in life, thought many
great things were accomplished late in the
evening of life. Michael Angelo painted and
designed some of his greatest works late in
life, and what could be more beautiful and
grand than going on and on and on, to the
great eternity. The most beautiful example
was the life of our late President Winder.
Many beautiful things are done even after
eighty and sometimes ninety; the mother,
after she has reared the family and the
wrinkles have come and the silver hair, she
still goes on with loving service for those she
loves; we all have obstacles to overcome
and prayer will sometime be answered, it
will come eventually. She read a little poem
for trying hours, and said there isn’t much
room in the world for older people; one of-
ten hears this saying, and then I think, oh,
we and every man and every woman whose
hair has become grey, we need their experi-
ence, we need their example and their coun-
sel. She had once seen a grandfather play-
ing a game with his two little grandsons,
and she thought how beautiful for the old
man to be young like that. The most
beautiful things have been written, the most
beautiful things have been painted when the
heart was tender.” Sister Dusenberry closed
by reading one of Eugene Field’s beautiful
poems, and said “God bless you. Amen.”
	Big Horn, Emery, and Blackfoot Stakes
were called to report. President Juliette
Blackburn of Blackfoot Stake reported that
it was a new Stake, and the Board were new-
ly appointed but were united in their work,

[Column 3]
and gave some statistics, and made an ex-
cellent statement about saving grain, spoke
of the pleasure she felt in remembering the
General Board of the Relief Society in her
prayers, and all our good sisters.
	Master Bryan Jenson sang with much feel-
ing, “Joseph Smith’s First Prayer."
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne—Address.
	Anniversaries, The Eightieth and the Six-
ty-eighth.
	“I think I never stood before the Saints of
God without feeling that I had the faith and
prayers of the audience, but today I feel that
I must especially ask the sisters for their
faith, for I realize what a stupendous subject
I have, and many eloquent speakers have
spoken upon this subject before, however, I
want to say that I have felt strengthened by
the beautiful singing of this little boy. I
shall not attempt to deal largely with this
subject, the organization of the Church, and
the organization of the Relief Society, but
only to express a few thoughts that came to
me this morning. There is certainly nothing
more sacred to us today than the life of
Christ, given in the New Testament for a
pattern for our daily lives, but in order to
fulfil the prophecy of it, it was necessary for
Joseph Smith to come. There had been a
great falling away, and the world was in ut-
ter darkness. The earth was waiting for a
change.
	Sister Dusenberry has spoken beautifully
of old age, and I would speak to you of
youth. It seems to me that God has spok-
en to the earth through youth. I am re-
minded of how God came to Samuel and
spoke through him, then when the Lord
called Jesse to bring his sons before Him,
he refused the older ones, but selected Da-
vid the younger who was tending the herds
in the field, and David was the only man in
all Israel to go against the Philistines.
Where in all the earth would greater faith
be found than in this child. And so when
the Gospel was to be restored, it is not sur-
prising that He brought it through a youth.
	“The forests were God’s first temples,”
so the poet says, and Joseph sought the
Lord in a forest, and there he prayed and
prayed, and behold a light came o’er him
and he saw the Father and the Son and he
heard the voice of the Lord. He knew that
if he told this, people would doubt him, but
his people believed him, and knew that he
spake the truth. Three years later when
Moroni came he was more ready for him, 
and to receive the special messages that
came to him, and finally when the Book of
Mormon was completed he was then twenty-
four years old. The Melchizedek priesthood
had been given and everything was ready
for the organization of the Church. To all
of us there is nothing more beautiful than
the organization of this great faith into a
Church. Joseph Smith had the broadest
comprehension and understanding of woman
and when he organized the Relief Society he
fully appreciated the necessity and oppor-
tunity of women joining with the priesthood,
and he said he would make of them high
priestesses. I know there are many things
I meant to speak of that the Prophet taught
the Relief Society, one thing was to provide
work for the able bodied. While it is beau-
tiful to take care of the needy and infirm it is
also necessary to provide means of sustain-
ing life. I also think we ought to look after
the orphan or in some way as a committee,
we ought never to be satisfied until there is
no more grief and no more sorrow, perhaps
until Christ shall come again upon the
earth.


Some announcements were made and
singing “Do what is right,” etc, Confer-
ence adjourned until Saturday at 10 a. m.
Benediction was pronounced by President
Bathsheba W. Smith.
			E. B. WELLS, Sec. 
		A. W. CANNON, Sec. pro tem.


70
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
[Column 1]
	Some announcements were made and
singing "Do what is right," etc, Confer-
ence adjourned until Saturday at 10 a.m.
Benediction was pronounced by President
Bathsheba W. Smith.
		E.B. Wells. Sec.
	A.W. Cannon, Sec. pro tem.

BRIEF HISTORY OF A FAMOUS WOMAN.

	This sketch of Sister Pratt, wife of Elder
Parley P.Pratt, is only a hundredth part of
what might be written of any one of our
sisters who have helped to lay the founda-
tion of woman's work in the Church and
who are entitled to a representation in the
annals of history. President Young gave
this mission to the editor of the WOMAN's
EXPONENT, "Write the lives of the noble
women who with their husbands, helped to
build up Zion." The WOMAN'S EXPONENT
already contains many short notices of wo-
men whose lives of devotion to the cause of
truth and righteousness are an example to
the daughters of Zion, and whose names
should be known and held in honorable re-
membrance.—Editor.
	Belinda Madden Pratt was born in Chi-
chester, Merrimack County, New Hamp-
shire, on December 24th, 1810. She was
the seventh daughter and fourteenth child
of her parents John Marden and Rachel
Shaw Marden.
	Her parents were strictly moral, and
members ef the Congregational Church.
Her father died just before she reached the
Age of fourteen, aged sixty-one. Her mother-
er lived to the age of eighty-three.
	Her father had a large farm, orchard
and garden. A large and roomy house, and
several barns. He was selectman of the town
and looked after the poor. bringing some of
them to live in a part of his house during
the winter season.
	Being of a bright and cheerful dispo-
sition, and the pet of the family, Belinda
spent a happy childhood. Her brothers and
sisters married one by one, until she was
left the only child at home except an invalid
brother. One sister married a Potter, Eunice
married a Procter, and Lydia a minister by
the name of Kimball. After her father's
death she was lonely, and, desiring more
education than she could get in her native
town, she went to live with her sister Lydia
Kimball, in Nashua, New Hampshire, where
she attended school. Later she moved to
Boston.
	She was continually seeking to know
which religious creed was right, never feel-
ing assured that those denominations with
which she was acquainted were right.
	The following is from a letter written by
herself:
	"In the winder of 1843 a friend and my-
self were attracted by a hand bill stating that
A Mormon Preacher would hold three meet-
iugs in the Roylston Hall, not having any-
thing to hinder us we went in to hearhim. The
Elder waa at prayer and such a remarkable
prayer. We stood iu the aisle till he finished
I think the light of Heaven rester down
upon me, for the joy and peace I experienced
were inexpressible. We attended the three
meetings morning—afternoon and evening.
I had an overwhelming testimony that what
he preached was true, and was so rejoiced
That I seemed to myself light as air, as
though my feet scarcely touched the ground.
This scripture came to my mind, 'My sheep
hear my voice and they follow me, and an-
other they will not follow.'

[Column 2]
	"I wrote to my sisters. They thought I
must be crazy. All opposed me. All that
I could do was to continually cry to the
Lord. I was baptized in Boston one day in
March. It was so cold that the ice had to
be broken and was held back with pole
while I went in, I think it was near the
last of March, 1843; do not know the exact
date. I was so conversant with the scrip-
tures, that with the testimony of the Spirit
I knew the doctrine preached by the Elders
was true. I very much wished I could
gather with the Saints at Nauvoo.
	"In the Spring of 1844 there were quite
A number of the Elders from Nauvoo, and
the branch there in Boston was quite large.
Parley P. Pratt, Erastus Snow, Georgs J.
Adams and others wsre there. I did not
mingle much with the Saints because of the
opposition I had to encounter.
	"In the month of June eight of the twelve
apostles came east to electioneer for Joseph
Smith for President of the United States.
They were Brigham Young, Weber C. Kim-
Ball, Orson Pratt, Wilford Woodruff, Lyman
Wight and others I do not remember.
	"An elder invited Brigham Young to
come to see me. He came, and I told him
I was about to go on a visit for some weeks
in the eountry to see relatives. He said,
"when you go, go to the clerk of the branch,
get a letter of recommendation, and I
will call you and see you again.' This was in 
July. He did not call again, for the Twelve
got news of the death of Joseph and Hyrum
Smith, and made immediate arrangements
to go home to Nauvoo.
	"I went according to the counsel of Pres-
ident Young, fearing and trembling. I did
not know what I was going to do, or how I
could live under the pressure, for all my
relatives were so bitter, all I could do was
to pray continually to the Lord, and He
surely heard my prayers.
	I went to the clerk for my letter of recom-
endation although I could not see what good
it would do to get it when I was just going
on a visit. But to be obedient to counsel
I went. Now see God's hand! While the
clerk was writing Lyman Wight who stood
by said privately "Why don't you you go to
Nauvoo?
	I said: "How can I?"
	He said: "We, that is the twelve' start
in the morning. You can go with us.'
	I said: "I could not start for the coun-
try till the next day after." I said too, "I
should not have money to go so long a jour-
ney." Lyman Wlght finally told me In the
Name of the Lord, God of Israel, If I would
go I would never see the day I would be
sorry. I said I would go, He told me there
was a sister in Utica, New York, he thought
would help me to money for my journey.
He would go there if he could, if not, he
would write to her. He gave me her ad-
dress. I got my letter of recommendation,
went heme and began my preparations to
go. I sent from me eldest brother, thinking
to confide in him, but when he came I made
some other reason for wishing to see him,
for the Spirit whispered that if I told a liv-
ing soul I would be hindered. I had to start
North instead of West to visit my relatives
as some accompanied me to the depot and
found myself alone at the first station, I
ordered my trunk and told the conductor
I would have to go back to Boston.
	Took the next train starting west.
	I had not the least compunction of con-
science or one thought that I was doing

[Column 3]
wrong. My heart was filled with joy and
thanksgiving. I never doubted for one mo-
ment, but that I should get along all
right, and that God would bless me.
	July 22, 1844, at 5 o'clock p. m. I
started in a second class train thinking to
save money by it, but a drunken man was
so insulting I was obliged to call the con-
ductor and get on a first class car and pay
full price.
	I reached Springfield, Mass., and staid
over night at a hotel. At seven in the
morning started for Utica, arriving about
seven in the evening, took a carriage and
drove to Sister Monroe's, as Brother Wight
had directed. He had written to her asking
her to help me to means to pursue my journey
to Nauvoo. I found her and her daughters
and sisters a very agreeable family, and we
had a night of rejoicing.
	Sister Monroe was a widow and had no
immediate means; I told her I was a dress-
maker, and she found me plenty of work.
I made dresses and satchels for two months,
and then her sister, afterwards Mrs. Ruth
Reese Kimball, and I started on our jour-
ney alone about fifteen hundred miles to
Nauvoo. I need not say we had many ad-
ventures, traveling as we were alone without
a protector, and some people traveling along
were not very pleasant ones, but the Great
Father protected us and we accomplished
our journey in safety arriving in Nauvoo the
last of September. It was midnight when
the boat on which we were traveling touched
the landing at Nauvoo.
	James Monroe, a brother to Ruth Reese,
came for us and escorted us to Sister Claw-
son's who was a sister to Ruth.
	I soon found employment at dressmaking
and many kind friends. President Young
welcomed me and blessed me.
	In my mind I had accepted all ths revel-
ations of God, plural marriage included, but
on account of the sayings and doings of
seme of the brethren and sisters I suffered
the temptations of Satan to nearly overcome
me so far that I thought I would have noth-
ing to do with it, I mean celestial marriage.
A good sister where I was staying called in
President Young to talk to me. He in-
structed me in the principle, and desiring
with all my heart to understand the truth,
I testify that the Holy Spirit of God rested
down upon me, and it was made plan to
my understanding that it was a divine prin-
ciple, and with great joy of beart I accepted
it and never from that time to this, 1889,
has there been a doubt in my mind con-
cerning it.
	I was sealed to Parley P. Pratt on or
about the 20th of November, 1844, in one
of the rooms of the house of Erastus Snow.
	I was sealed to a good man of the first
Apostles of this dispensation by President
Brigham Young for time and all eternity.
There was but one witness, Elder Erastus
Snow.
	On or about the first of December, Mr.
Pratt was appointed and set apart for a
mission to the Eastern States to take care
of the Church in the Atlantic States, as I
was without home or relatives in this part
of the country he wished me to follow him.
I will not attempt to tell the joy that filled
my heart. I had never expected to have
so great a privilege. He gave me means to
go, and accordingly I started a day or two
after he did. After arriving at St. Louis I
went on the same boat with him to Pitts-
burg, and Wheeling, Virginia. From there
we crossed the Allegheny Mountains by


71
WOMAN"S EXPONENT.

[Column 1]
stage to Wilmington, from there by rail to
Philadelphia. Here we were obliged to
wait a few days for money and then we went
on to the city of New York by stage, and
arrived Christmas, Eve. He visited some
of the Saints while I found a boarding-place
among strangers, for it was not known ex-
cept by a few of the Saints that the sealing
power was practiced. I found a boarding-
place and paid my expenses with sewing.
	After a short time I rented a house and
Mr. Pratt boarded with me. I commenced
dressmaking and knitting baby socks which
I sold by the dozen, earning from fifty cents
to a dollar a day nearly all the time I was
there, besides doing my housework.
	Mr. Pratt was called home to Nauvoo on
August 18, 1845. We traveled by the Erie
Canal and Lakes, journeying from Chicago
to Nauvoo by land. I went to Mr. Beaches
tavern to board while Mr. Pratt went to his
Home.
	After a while it was arranged for his wife,
Mary, and I to commence keeping house in
rooms above Mr. Pratt's store.
	The Temple was completed so far as to
give endowments therein. Some time in
December I received my endowments and
blessings therein and was again sealed over
the alter.
	On January 1st, 1846, I had a son born
who was named Nephi by his father.
	The persecution of the Saints became so
great that the authorities of the Church and
many of the Saints had to bid farewell to
their homes in Febraury. and we crossed
the Mississippi River about the 14th of the
month. It was extremely cold and my baby
only six weeks old. I had not recovered
my strength but a merciful Providence sus-
tained me, and by degrees I gained my strength.
	It was a terrible journey from Nauvoo to
the Missouri River. It stormed almost con-
tinuously, snow and rain, and the earth was
so soaked that the poor horses and cattle
could drag us but a few miles each day.
We reached the Missouri River in July, near
Council Bluffs and camped for several
weeks."
	Sister Belinda Pratt came to Utah in
1847 (immediately following the Pioneers).
She suffered all the trials, exposures and
privations incident to pioneer life.
	Mr. Pratt made his families comfortable
homes and started a good farm and orchard
which was a help to them long after he was
gone. Sister Belinda passed through
unspeakable grief of losing her husband by
assassination while he was on a mission in
1857. Left with a family of little children
unprovided for and unprotected, she strug-
gled through years of more than ordinary
hardships and privations. She was an edu-
cated, refined and gentle woman, full of
Sympathy, generosity and kindness.
	She taught school, made dresses, took
boarders. The struggle was a brave one.
She gave her children what education she
Could.
	When the Relief Society was called to-
gethcr, organized in wards in Salt Lake, she
was a teacher therein and maintained that
position until she moved to Fillmore in the
Autumn of 1870.
	While living in the Fourteenth Ward in
Salt Lake City she paid her tithing and fifty
cents in cash each month for a fast offering.
Bishop Hoagland asked her why she did it
and if she thought a poor widow should do
so. She reminded him of the widow's mite,

[Column 2]
and told him that she wanted the blessing
and approval of God.
	She was for years an active, intelligent
and persistent worker for the public good.
While she was President of Fillmore Ward
Relief Society there was a poor woman who
was aided by the Society. The woman was
a great gossip and talked a great deal.
Some of the ward Relief Society teachers
came to Sister Pratt with the report that the
woman had said quite bad things about the
Society and also about Sister Pratt, and
they did not think it right to help her any
more. Sister Pratt said: "You must not
let her suffer no matter how she talks, give
her what she needs and relieve her wants."
	She was the first Stake President of the
Relief Society of Millard County from its
organization until her removal to Salt Lake.
	She delighted in associating with her sis-
ters, on one occasion arriving at the door of
the room where a sewing meeting was con-
vened, pausing for a moment to listen to the
hum of voices from within, she said: "The
sound of their voices is like sweet music to
my ears."
	A phrenologist said of her: "She has a
man's ability for business and great execu
tive talent with a woman's love of the fine
And beautiful."
	It was a long time after leaving her home
before her relatives knew where she was.
They mourned her as dead. When they
learned that she was in Salt Lake they were
so ashamed and shocked to think that she
had joined "that low, degraded people," as
they styled them. They wrote to her if she
would leave that church and people and
come home that they would share all in the
world with her; if she did not she would see
the time that she would be hungry. She
replied that she had suffered hunger, having
nursed twins for several months without
bread, but that so strong was her testimony
that this is the true restored Gospel of Jesus
Christ, that she had never for one moment
been sorry for having cast her lot with the
Saints of God. Her sacrifice she counted
as nothing for the Gospel; and the hope
which she had in the eternal life, and eternal
family ties more than repaid her for all, she
felt to claim the fulfillment of the promise of
the Savior, and felt that it included women
as well as men:
	"There is no man that had left house or
brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or
wife, or children, or lands for my sake, and
the Gospel's but he shall receive an hundred
fold now in this time, houses and brethren,
and sisters and children and lands with per-
secutions, and in the world to come eternal
life."
	Her mother believing all the misrepresen-
tations and untruths of our enemies against
the Saints said of her: "Belinda has always
been my little white pet lamb, and now she
is the black sheep of the family."
	Some of her relatives distinguished them-
selves by their bravery and became officers
in the army; some were fine musicians and
composers of music, some were renowned
for their oratory and literature, some held
important positions in the government of
the United States. Not one received the
glad message of good tidings beside herself,
so she the despised of all her race bccame a
Savior to her father's household, spend much
of her hard earnings to gather genealogy,
did what work she could in the temples for
them and laid a fonndation for her children
to build upon.
				I. E. R.

[Column 3]
IN MEMORIAM.

Thy mother lives and once again
	Where there's no sorrow nor distress,
She'll meet her loved ones who remain
	In realms of endless happiness.	E. B. W.

	On March 3rd, 1910, Sister Mary E. Irvine
passed from this life after an illness of two years.
	She was born in Bradford, England, December
7th, 1851. Her parents were David and Jane
Rutherford. Their two children (John, who died
in young manhood, and Mary) were brought up
under a religious influence, their father being a
Methodist minister, and their mother also being
a strict Methodist. David Rutherford died in
1858.
	In her early girlhood it became clear to Sister
Irvine that the churches of they did not follow
the teachings of the Bible, and she questioned
her class teachers and the ministers about many
things, which they were not able to answer to her
satisfaction, and when she persisted in question-
ing, they concluded by telling her that the must
be a child of perdition, and not able to believe.
	At the age of seventeen she married John
Irvine, and they made their home in Newcastle-
upon-Tyne, her mother accompanying them. Mrs.
Irvine and her husband were agreed that, though
they both felt a strong desire for religion that
would satisfy them, they could not accept what
was offered in the Christian sects, and therefore
held themselves aloof.
	For a time spiritualism, then beginning to be
popular in England, claimed their attention, and
they, with a number of their friends, formed what
was called a circle. Interesting though their ex-
periences were in this connection, they fully re-
alized that they were far from being satisfied. In-
deed Sister Irvine often said afterwards that she
feared far more than she enjoyed, and certainly
found no peace in spiritualism, gladly leaving it
entirely alone just as soon as something better
was offered.
	In the year 1877 they learned that there were
Mormon Elders in Newcastle, and they went to
hear them preach. The first sermon, it might be
said, convinced them. for from that time they
were deeply interested in the truths of the Gospel,
and it was not long before they were baptized in-
to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Brother Royal B. Young might be mentioned
here as one of the Elders most earnest in preach-
Ing the doctrines of the Church to them, and was
afterwards their lifelong friend. Sister Irvine's
mother was also converted, though she at first
declared she would leave the house if Mormon
Elders were allowed to enter it, so strong a hold
did Methodism still have upon her.
	Mr. Irvine had a good position at that time,
being able to maintain a nice home ad provide
many comforts for his family. The spirit of
gathering however strongly possessed them. Ob-
jections were raised to their emigrating by their
friends, among them the Elders from Zion, the
latter fearing that the changed conditions they
would meet in Utah might affect their faith. But
they could not be stayed, and it was not long af-
ter their baptism before they, with their five small
children, were journeying to Utah, arriving here
in the spring of 1879.
	The work of Relief Society and that of the
Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement soon claimed
the attention of Sister Irvine after her arrival in
Utah, and in both of these organizations she be-
came an active worker, holding several different
positions in each, from time to time, until the be-
ginning of her sickness, in March, 1907. She
visited many of the far off stakes of Zien in the
interest of both organizations.
	She loved the work of the Lord with all her
heart, and willingly engaged in it from the time
of her conversion, her interest never flagging.
She was especially gifted in nursing the sick and
in comforting the sorrowful, being able to cheer
with kind words and loving deeds, thus proving
a strong and faithful help in the Relief Society in
the true sense of the work. Many times she
arose from a bed of sickness herself to answer the
call of distress and give the help that was needed.
	In her Church work she became acquainted
with the many noble women who were likewise
engaged, and her association with these friends
brought sunshine into her life. It may be truly
said of her that she never lost a friend. The
young, the middle aged and the old, once know-
ing her, loved her with an enduring love. and
they it was who cheered her long sickness with
kindly visits, loving messages, and flowers at all
seasons of the year.
	But above and beyond all things else she was a
mother in the true sense of the word. Her pub-
lic duties never caused her to neglect her home.


OBITUARY.
	In memory of Nancy S. Peterson of Ferron,
Utah, who departed this life April 12, 1910. De-
ceased was born in Ephraim, Sanpete County,
Utah, July 21, 1857. She was the daughter of
Bishop J. L. Black and Cynthia Allred Black.
She was married to Andrew Peterson Nov. 23,
1875, at Kanosh, Millard County, and moved to
Ferron in 1895. She leaves a husband and eleven
children to mourn her loss, also a host of friends.
	The officers of the Ferron Relief Society offer
the following resolutions of respect:
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister
Nancy S. Peterson, a member and teacher of the
Ferron Relief Society, who departed this life April
12, 1910.
	Whereas, after a long and severe illness, our
worthy aad beloved Sister has been called home
to our Heaevnly Father;
	Therefore, be it resolved, that we, the Sisters of
the Relief Society do sincerely sympathize with
the bereaved family, and we mourn for one who
was in every respect worthy of our love and es-
teem;
	Resolved, that in her death we recognize the
loss of a true saint and a faithful worker, and
though she has left us for a short time, yet we
know that all is well with her, for she has fought
the good fight and has kept the faith, and there
is a crown of righteousness awaiting her in the
Kingdom of God.
	She has gone to a rest so sweet,
		To all the faithful given.
	O, may we learn through earthly life,
		The same sweet bliss in Heaven.
	May her devoted lile on earth,
		Of patience. hope and love,
	Aid us to gain that prize of worth,
		From Him who rules above.
	Resolved that the resolutions be placed on the
record of the Relief Society and a copy be sent to
her bereaved family.
						M. J. KING, Pres.
						OLIVE OLSEN, Sec.


R. S. REPORTS.
			OGDEN STAKE.
	The Relief Society of the Ogden stake of
Zion held its quarterly conference in the
Relief Society Hall at Ogden, Utah, April
21, 1910. The morning session convened
at 10 o’clock. Counselor Isabel Foulger
presided and conducted the exercises. The
roll call showed a goodly attendance of
stake and local officers and workers. After
the opening exercises, Treasurer Sarepta E.
Cowles gave a most excellent talk on “The
Children’s Sabbath” with a view of making
it a pleasant, and yet withal a holy day.
	A very spirited discussion followed, led by
Sister Nellie Becraft, and participated in by
both stake and local workers.
	Items of General Relief Soeiety Confer-
ence, by Sister Nellie Becraft, a solo “Char-
ity” by Sister Emily Maddock and a few
choice remarks by ex-president Mary J.
Maycock of Pleasant View ward occupied
the whole of the morning session.
	The congregation sang “Love at Home,’’
and the benediction was pronounced.
	During the period between meetings sim-
ple refreshments were served to all present,


by the Sixth Ward Association, and hand-
shaking and social time was indulged in.
	At 2 p. m. the conference was again called
together  After the usual opening exercises,
Sister Nellie Becraft gave a short talk on
‘‘The Significance of the Organization of the
Relief Society, its Purpose and its Aims.”
	Elder Samuel G. Dye of the High Coun-
cil spoke on “Inspiration and Social Evils”
showing the power the sisters of the Relief
Society might be in checking the evils that
are in our midst, by being united and sus-
taining and assisting the Betterment League
which has for its purpose the redemption of
our boys and girls. Prayed the Lord to
help us to sustain His authority on the earth
attend to all our duties, and especially of
attending our Sacrament meetings that we
might be strong spiritually.
	Solo, “Behold the King of Glory,” Sister
Elizabeth Hickenlooper.
	Dr. Joseph R. Morrell of the High Coun-
cil spoke on “Influence, and the Responsi-
bility of fathers and mothers in regard to
the teaching of their boys and girls the laws
pertaining to sex and social purity, and de-
manding the same standard of purity of
both sexes” We have been too prudish on
this subject and have failed in our duties to
our offspring. Trusted that we might think
on the things that have been touched upon
for they are of vital importance.
	Counselor Foulger felt that the teachings
given this day were very timely. With all
our opportunities what manner of women
ought we to be? les us see to it that we fail
not in our duties. Let us teach our chil-
dren the things they ought to learn from us
and let our own lives be quiet sermons every
day, remembering that character teaches
over our heads.
	After singing the “Doxology” the bene-
diction was pronounced by Sister Ruth B.
Evans.
	There was a large attendance and the
Spirit of the Lord was with us in rich abun-
dance.
		NELLIE BECRAFT, Secretary.


[handwritten at the top of the page] Mary A. White
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 38. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 1910. No. 10.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
President Bathsheba W. Smith, Portrait..........	73
Birthday Anniversary, May 3, 1910................	73
Peace Meetings................................................	74
Bathsheba W. Smith, a Tribute...........E. B. W.	75
Honor to Retiring Officers...............................	75
Story of a Century.............Emmeline B. Wells	77
Address to Relief Society Nurse School Grad-
	uates.........................Annie Wells Cannon	78
Relief Society Stake Reports:—Alpine............	79
A Remarkable Woman (Concluded) E. B. W.	79
Editorial:—Celebrated People..........................	76
	Susan H. Wells..........................................	76
	Graduating Exercises of Relief Society
		Nurse Class...........................A.W. C.	76
In Memoriam.....................................................	79
Notes and News............................................... 75, 80
Poetry:—Life’s Voyage..........Julia Ward Howe	73
	Tapestry Weavers.......................................	73
	Quest and Message......Emmeline B. Wells	75


LIFE’S VOYAGE.
		By Mrs. Julia Ward Howe.
I have made a voyage upon a golden river,
	’Neath clouds of opal and of amethyst.
Along its banks bright shapes were moving ever,
	And threatening shadows melted into mist.
My journey nears its close—in some still haven
	My bark shali find its anchorage of rest,
When the kind hand which every good has given,
	Opening with wider grace shall give the best.


TAPESTRY WEAVERS.
Let us take to ourselves a lesson,
	No lesson can braver be,
Of the ways of the tapestry weavers,
	On the other side of the sea.
Above their head the pattern hangs,
	They study it with care,
The while their fingers deftly weave,
	Their eyes are fastened there.
They tell this curious thing besides,
	Of the patient plodding weaver,
He works on the wrong side evermore,
	But works for the right side ever.
It is only when his work is done,
	And the web is loosed aud turned,
That he sees the real handiwork
	His marvelous skill has learned.
Ah, the sight of its delicate beauty!
	How it pays him for all its cost!
No rarer, daintier work than his
	Was ever done by the frost.
The years of man are nature’s looms,
	Let down from the place of the sun,
Wherein we are weaving alway,
	Till the mystic work is done.
Sometimes blindly—but weaving surely,
	Each for himself his fate;
We may not see how the right side looks,
	We must often weave—and wait.
			—New England Magazine.


[Image with the caption “PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.”]

[Column 1]
BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY, MAY 3, 1910.
	Most of our readers know the name—sig-
nificant it seems of excellence: Bathsheba
W. Smith; she was born May 3, 1822, and
was eighty-eight on Monday, May 3, 1910,
and the General Board of the Relief Society
gave a party in her honor on that day in
the Relief Society headquarters in the grand
new building.
	It was a very enjoyable affair and quite in
keeping with the lady’s own views of such
occasions; she wanted her own relatives and
particular friends invited. The rooms were
artistically decorated and all the arrange-
ments were made with a view and desire to
honor her, and show reverence to her long
life of labor and usefulness in every sphere
she has been called to fill.
	She looked queenly in her shimmering
white home made silk dress and elegant,
dainty laces and her beautiful smooth white
hair with a real lace scarf gracefully thrown
over her head added much to the stately
dignity of her appearance.
	President John Henry Smith was Master
of Ceremonies and maintained the dignity
of the occasion admirably. Professor John
J. McLellan gave a piano solo and some
other exquisite musical selections; Clive’s
string band were there to add to the musical
part of the program. Mrs. Lizzie Thomas
Edward, with her beautiful soprano voice,

[Column 2]
sang several old fashioned favorites, “Mary
of Argyle,” “Silver Threads Among the
Gold” and others.
	The exercises began with the hymn “Our
Mountain Home so Dear,” prayer by Presi-
dent Francis M. Lyman. Address President
Joseph F. Smith, who spoke most affection-
ately of his dear Aunt Bathsheba, recounting
some of his childhood recollections of the
home his uncle, President George A. Smith,
church historian, and Aunt Bathsheba occu-
pied, to many known now only as the “Old
Historian’s Office; he paid a beautiful trib-
ute to her motherly tenderness and her
many virtues and excellent attributes as
wife, mother, and saint, and alluded to her
Temple work for so many years and her
faithful discharge of religious duties and ob-
ligations as well as all others in family or
public life. He gave some brief reminis-
cences of childhood, and experiences as a
missionary when very young on the Sand-
wich Islands, that were quite pathetic, ex-
pressed himself as deeply interested in the
Relief Society and his ardent desire was to
see it accomplish its great mission and des-
tiny.
	Response: President Bathsheba W. Smith
welcomed the friends and relatives assem-
bled in a few well-chosen words, rejoiced to
see them all under such prosperous circum-
stances, felt she wanted them all to keep
the faith and be true to the covenants they


[Column 1]
had made, she loved the Temple, she was
never absent a day scarcely, nor from her
meetings of the Relief Society, she testified
to the divinity of the divine mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and that she had re-
ceived her endowments in his life time, the
only living witness of that ordinance during
the Prophet’s life and she also told the aud-
ience she was the only living witness of that
memorable meeting held in the Masonic
Hall, Nauvoo, Illinois, when the Relief So-
ciety was organized by the Prophet himself
—she bless d all present and asked the
Lord to bless us and exhorted all present
to be faithful and true, hoped we might
have a good time.
	Music followed: Soprano solo, Sister
Lizzie Thomas Edward:—
	When I think of violets, then I think of you;
	When I think of roses, then I think of you;
it was as beautiful as a midsummer dream.
	“The story of a Century,” by Emmeline
B. Wells came next, and a motion was made
and a vote taken that it be published.
	An exquisite piano solo by Professor Mc-
Clellan called forth great applause.
	Remarks by President John Henry Smith
were full of love and tenderness as indeed,
they must be, he having looked upon “Aunt
Bathsheba” as one of his mothers, having
been bereft of his own mother at an early
age, and of a very loving nature; he has al-
ways been like an own son to his ‘Aunties’
and they all sort of lay claim to him; his
eulogy of this lady whose birthday was be-
lng honored was very suggestive of his own
standard of ideal womanhood, and in a way,
a sort of “hero-worship” as applied to wo-
man.
	As there were no notes taken it is quite
impossible to repeat in his own language the
remarks he made, but it was evident he felt
deeply, and what he expressed came from
the man’s heart.
	More music and old-fashioned songs by
Sister Edward, “Mary of Argyle,” and “Sil-
ver Threads Among the Gold,”.
	Some interesting recollections of her grand-
mother were given by Leila Merrill Allen
the eldest grand-daughter of the honored
lady and they were told in a very quaint,
realistic style, and naturally recalled to all
present the sweet simplicity of the early
days, when conditions were very different to
what they are at the present time. An ideal
grandmother certainly was Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith to all the little ones, and is today,
not only to those that are now mature men
and women, but to the next generation,who
are as devoted and worshipful and full of
love as were their mothers before them.
	President Anthon H. Lund made some
closing remarks expressing his pleasure in
being present at the 88th birthday party,
and speaking of his acquaintance with Pres-
ident George A. Smith for whom he seemed
to have great love and admiration, alluded
to the beautiful life-work of Sister Bath-
sheba and her devotion to the temple.
	The exercises were dismissed with prayer.
	A social hour followed and the daintiest
refreshments were served by members of the
board assisted by their daughters and a very
pleasant and enjoyable time with music
from the band and piano, and the birthday
party was certainly a happy affair.
	The guest of honor had many gifts and
tokens of love, and flowers in great abund-
ance,a large bouquet of American beauty ros-
es, carnations in great variety and with the
heartiest congratulations of all assembled,

[Column 2]
and earnest wishes for health and happiness
in the days yet to come. Loaded with flow-
ers and beaming with kindness and appreci-
ation the lady of 88 took her leave of the
guests, to retire to her sweet little cottage
embowered in the green vines and shrubbery
of May-time.
	We wish her more happy birthdays
		And years in the House of the Lord:
	With health and prosperity always,
		And all that this earth can afford;
	And at last a glad welcome above,
	With a fulness of joy and of love.	E. B. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		PEACE MEETINGS.
	We are pleased to state that in the North
Weber Stake, Peace meetings have been held
in every ward, also that the meetings were
all held on Sunday evening, May 15th, 1910.
	There are twelve wards in this stake. The
programs rendered were under the auspices
of the Relief Society and the Y. L. M. I. A.
and were as follows:
	Far West: Songs, “Red, White and Blue,”
“Star Spangled Banner;” Peace poem by
Mrs. Susa Kotch; piano solo by Bessie Tay-
lor; Hague Court and Arbitration, Mrs. Sarah
A. Larkin; Peace rallying song, Helena Cot-
tle, Walter Cottle, Clarence Stephenson and
Cora Stephenson; recitation, “Let there be
Peace,” Maud Taylor; solo, “Somewhere,”
Alice Burnett; “Utah Stake Peace Poem,”
Mrs. May Stewart. Resolutions were adopt-
ed. 83 present.
	Harrisville: Songs, “America,” by Con-
gregation, and “Red, White and Blue,” by
five little girls; Hague Court and Arbitra-
tion,” Mrs. Emmeline Shurtliff; duet, “Just
Before the Battle, Mother,” Mr. and Mrs.
Samuel Blair; Peace talk, Mrs. Emma
Harris; recitation, “Let us have Peace,”
Miss Fern Harris; solo, “Star Spangled Ban-
ner,” Miss Edith Beryessa. Resolutions
were adopted. 79 present.
	Lynne: Songs, “Red, White and Blue,”
“There is a place in Utah,” “Star Spangled
Banner,” “God will protect thee;” recitetion,
“Utah State Peace Poem;” Hague Court and
general peace talk, Mr. Lawrence Malin.
Resolutions were adopted. 60 presens.
	Ogden Third Ward: Songs, “Star Spangled
Banner,” "America,” ‘‘Lord we ask Thee,”
Hague Court and Arbitration and general
peace talk by Lucretia West and Lucy A.
Steers; recitation, “Let there be Peace,”
Emma Greenwell; solo, “Peace rallying
song,” Lawrence Greenwell; peace talk,
Sarah Williams; international arbitration,
Christian J. Jensen; solo, ‘‘Hail Columbia,”
George O. Nye. Resolutions were adopted.
200 present.
	Ogden Tenth Ward: Songs, “America,”
“Star Spangled Banner,” “Lord we ask
Thee,” Hague Court and Arbitration, George
Barker; recitation, “Let there be Peace,”
Mrs. Bradley, solo, “The Prince of Peace,”
Mrs. Florence Fisher; recitation, “Peace in
the Home,” Maud Barker; solo, Mrs. Porter.
Resolutions were adopted. 77 present.
	Taylor Ward: Songs, “The Star Spangled
Banner.” ‘‘Columbia the Gem of the Ocean;”
“America;” recitation, “Let there be Peace,”
Elizabeth Wayment; Hague Court and Arbi-
tration, Ella Barnes and Mr. Elijah W. Clay-
ton, solo, “Just as the Sun went down,”
Minnie J. Jardine; “Peace rallying song,”
Lillian and Ethel Hunter; recitation, “Let
us have peace,” Hazel Daley; remarks.
Bishop William H. Jardine. Resolutions
were adopted. 88 present.

[Column 2]
	West Weber Ward: Songs, “America;”
“Red, White and blue,” “Peace rallying
song;” recitation, “Let there be Peace,”
Agnes Hogge; “Utah State Peace Poem,”
Annie Penman; Hague Court and Arbitra.
tion, George Hislop. Resolutions were adopt-
ed. 72 present,
	Marriott: Songs by congregation, “Ameri-
ca,” and “Jesus once of humble Birth.”
“Our Mountain Home so Dear;” Hague
Court and Arbitration, Mrs. May N. Butler;
duet, “Truth reflects upon our senses,” Mr.
Albert Powel and Mr. Richard C. Butler,
reading, “Let us have Peace,” Mrs. Eveline
James “Red Cross Society,” Mrs. Harriet
R. Bingham; violin solo. Mr. Lawrence
Millard; reading, “Let there be peace,”
Mrs. Marcia A. Reeder; anthem by choir.
Resolutions were adopted. 100 present.
	Plain City: Songs, “Behold the Mountain
of the Lord,” “Star Spangled Banner,”
“Red White and Blue,” solo and chorus,
“Just before the Battle, Mother;” instru-
mental selection, Bertha Robson; solo, “The
Guiding Star,” Iona Garner, Hague Court
and Arbitration, Florence Jenkins; arbitra-
tion vs. war, Peter M. Folkman; talk on
peace, Bishop Henry J Garner, recitation,
“Let there be peace,” Rose Kerr; “Utah
State Peace Poem,” Cora Carver. Resolu-
tions were adopted. 142 present.
	Slatervilte: Songs, “Star Spangled Ban-
ner,” “America,” “Closing Hymn;,, Hague
Court and Arbitration, Mrs. Isabel Allred;
solo, “There is a place in Utah,” Cora
Cowan, reading on peace, Jerome Wheeler;
recitation, “Let there be Peace,” Ada Perry;
duet, “My Father Knows,” Alice Holly and
Della Howell; peace talk, Bishop James
Slater; reading, “Let us have peace,” Eliza
H. Knight. Resolutions were adopted. 55
present.
	Wilson Ward: Songs, “The Star Spangled
Banner,” “Red White and Blue,” ‘ Peace on
Earth and good will to Men;” First Hague
Court, Eliza D. Martin; Second Hague
Court, Elizabeth Wilson. duet, “Just before
the Battle, Mother,” Edwin M. Bingham
and Norman Olsen; recitation, “Let us have
Peace,” Anna Drake; duet, “Peace rallying
song,” Julia Moore and Sarah Cowley; read-
ing, “Let there be peace,” Ellen Hogge.
Resolutions were adopted. 121 present.
	Warren Ward: Songs, “Star Spangled Ban-
ner,” “America” “Parting Hymn;” First
Hague Court, Cederisa Willis; Second Hague
Court, Isabel M. Ward; duet, “Just before the
Battle, Mother,” Rose Bullock, Hazel Wade;
reading, “Utah State Peace Poem,” Melissa
Willis; remarks, Bishop William T. Way-
ment and Myron Wade. Resolutions were
adopted. 40 present.
	Yours in the cause of truth and peace.
			GEORGINA G. MARRIOTT,
						President R. S.
			MARY N. BUTLER,
						Secretary R. S.
			ELIZA F. MCFARLAND,
				President Y. L. M. I. A.
			LLLLIE MOYES,
						Secretary.


Queen Mary is the first Queen consort born
in England for two hundred years. She is
described as a woman of strong will and vig-
orous initiative, and it is believed that she
will be a power in the life of the court and
of the nation. She was educated, as was
Queen Victoria, in the strictest, simplest
way. She is fond of music and art and is a
good needle-woman. She is described as a
model mother, and is devoted to her hus-
band and children.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


QUEST AND MESSAGE.
Flitting through my mental vision
	As I sat while idly dreaming
In the silence of the night time
	Came fond memories o’er me stealing;
		Tender voices seemed to whisper
		Softly as an evening vesper.
Bringing back the former days
	With remembrances enthralling,
Scenes long past and half-forgotten,
	Names of those we loved recalling,
		Echoes of the far-off olden
		From the hills of memory golden.
Shall I tell you all the story
	As we sit together feasting,
What I saw while thus reclining,
	Tell you how my soul went questing
		Far off to the long ago
		In search of our Eliza Snow?
Angel-faces stood out clearly,
	Radiant in the distance gleaming,
I was conscious of a presence
	That with majesty was beaming,
		And sweet music dream-like trilling
		Till my very soul was thrilling.
Did she come from fields elysian?
	Fresh as early dews of morning,
Standing just within the portal,
	Queenly in her bright adorning,
		Entered with that lofty tread —
		Veiled in mystic like the dead.
Not a single word was spoken,
	But the manner was controlling;
’Twas a message to us bearing
	For our human lives consoling;
		In her hand she held a tablet,
		Which I never can forget.
On the tablet’s shining surface
	Was a shield of finest tracing,
And a couplet wrought with pearls
	Set with diamonds interlacing.
		“Purity Forevermore”
		The inscription that it bore.
	VISION VANISHED.
Here she taught us life’s great lessons,
	From the fount above obtaining;
As we trod life’s paths together,
	Always righteousness maintaining—
		With that wondrous gift of power,
		Her true heritage and dower.
Many years she served the Master,
	Truth’s great banner wide unfurling,
O’er the world she carried tidings
	To all human souls uplifting;
		Gladdest message of true light
		Peering through the darkest night.
Famous jewels she had gathered
	In her pilgrimage sojourning,
Which she scattered ’mong the daughters
	Freely, generously bestowing
		Precious truths, the choicest gems.
		Fairer than earth’s diadems.
Rarest, sweetest songs of Zion
	That are sung with sacred feeling—
Given her thro’ inspiration.
	Holy principles revealing
		Crown with honor her great name,
		Linked with everlasting fame.
And we call her regnant-mother;
	In her chaste, pure life exceling—
Zion’s daughters down the ages
	Will her messages be telling.
		Poet! Priestess, Prophet too—
		Israel’s hosts will honor you.
					EMMELINE B. WELLS.
January 21, 1910.


[Column 1]
		BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
			A TRIBUTE.
“Life’s waning hours, like the Sybil’s page,
	As they lessen in value rise.
Oh rouse thee and live! nor dream thine age
Stands in the length of its pilgrimage,
But in days that are truly wise.”
	It is difficult to write of one who has
ived so long and seen so much, and whose

[Column 2]
life has been so full of the riches of experi-
ences; one stands bewildered in the midst of
the overwhelming fact of such great scenes
even sometimes tragedies, through which
men and women pass who have lived long,
what tales these veterans could tell if one
could pause to listen; comedies too, per-
chance; but we cannot unfold the thrilling
incidents that are too sacred for the public
eye or ear. No! nor would we if we could,
and so we repeat again what shall one say
of this grand woman who stands among us
today like some great oak, under whose
sweeping branches—where all may come
seeking for courage and for wisdom to know
how their lives may be so ordered that 
they may pass unscathed through fiery or-
deals.
	What life has meant to her ever since her
girlhood days, when she roamed afield in
her fair Southern home “to be a Saint of
God in very deed’’ this has been her great
ambition and desire. In that far-off time,
when the young Elder George A. Smith
came and in her father’s house proclaimed
the Gospel plan, she heard and treasured
the words of life and salvation and believ-
ing with all her heart and soul, she entered
in at the baptismal door; and anon love
came, and the eternal marriage covenant:
and ever since from step to step, up the
long ladder of the narrow way, that leads
from height to height, she has mounted
planting her feet secure and firm upon each
round, until she reached the highest step-
and there she has made her calling secure
within the holy Temple.
	Do you think this long life has been one
of ease, far from it—every quality of heart
and soul that she possessed has been called
into exercise to help her on the upward way.
There have been thorns and thistles, too,
but she has not let them overcome her zeal
or fortitude, she has striven and gone past
all obstacles and by faith and prayer has
gained the victory. And now we see her
grandly beautiful at eighty-eight! Who that
has seen her in the Temple can ever forget
her stately, dignified and royal manner.
	To the youth of Zion she is a pattern they
may well strive to imitate, for she has bee 
prudent, wise and a marvel of industry;
excelling in most of the domestic arts
and sciences.
	She is the only living witness of the valid-
ity of the endowments in the days of Joseph
the Prophet, she is the only one left of those
who received these precious blessings in
those early days, and also of that noble band
of women who met by appointment in the
Masonic hall in Nauvoo, Illinois, on that
memorable day March 17, 1842, when that
first organization of women, in all the world
so far as known was effected.
	How thankful the women of the Latter-
day Saints should be to have this living wit-
ness of these two wondrous events in their
midst at the present day, and to hear from
her own lips the assurance of these facts
confirmed. This testimony has been given
verbally to thousands who should treasure
this knowledge in their hearts. It is very
important to treasure up the gems of truth
and knowledge of sacred things, spoken bymen and women who were engaged in this
great work in the very beginning, who have
been valiant and fearless in standing stead-
fast for the truth, and seeking to promote
the cause of righteousness.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith has preached
the simple life by living it. Early rising,
frugality, industry and simplicity in dress
and in household matter have in a marked

[Column 3]
degree been apparent in all her labors, and
yet she has kept abreast of the times; she
has never been behind in good works, or in
the part she has taken in affairs, public or
private, always ready, punctual to time
whenever duty called; in this one admirable
trait she excels even now, when she might
easily be forgiven if she were late at an ap-
pointment, but no, she is always at her post
on time.
	Seventeen years in the Salt Lake Temple
four days a week, what a record it is! Sis-
ter Smith has done more temple work than
any other woman; think of the thousands
she has met there and to whom she has ren-
dered service.
	Are we not proud and gratified that we
have known her, that we some of us have
served with her in the field of woman’s
endeavor. Words are inadequate to express
our admiration of her chaste and noble life
and example.
	Are we not glad that she has lived to be
	Four score and eight and vig’rous as you see?
	Has she not fought life’s battle valiantly?
	Truly she has been favored of the Lord,
	In bearing testimony of His word;
	Mother in Israel most assuredly.
								E. B. W.


HONOR TO RETIRING OFFICERS.
	A grand reception and banquet was given
March 5, 1910, from one to 5 o’clock, at the
Heber Amusement Hall, in honor of the
retiring officers of the Relief Society of the
Wasatch Stake, who were honorably re-
leased at the quarterly conference, Jan. 15,
1910, after many years of excellent service.
Fully five hundred people partook of dinner
after which a fine program was rendered,
and each retiring officer presented with a
beautiful chair, as a token of love and es-
teem from all the members of all the wards
in the stake. It was given under the man-
agement of the newly-sustained stake offi-
cers, with the assistance of the ward officers.
It was one of the grandest social events ever
held in the stake and one long to be remem-
bered. The Stake organization now stands
as follows: President, Joannah E. Jensen;
First Counselor, Margaret Murdock; Second
Counselor, Sophia Luck; Secretary and
Treasurer Carlie C. Tidwell.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Both houses of the New York Legislature
have passed a bill empowering women in all
the towns, villages and third-class cities of
New York State to vote on bonding propo-
sitions.
	In Montreal, where women have the mu-
nicipal vote, they went to the polls in unpre-
cedented numbers at the recent city elec-
tion, and were a potent factor in helping to
elect a reform city government. The local
Council of Wyoming took the lead in this
successful effort to enlist the women, and
common cause was made by the women’
organizations of all kinds, French and Eng-
lish, Protestant and Catholic. The clergy
of all denominations united in urging the
women voters to disregard considerations of
race and religion and to support the candi-
dates who were for good government. A
corrupt and grafting administration that had
long plundered the city was triumphantly
turned out, and everyone is praising the
women.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

				Woman’s Exponent

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-	-	MAY, 1910.


[Column 1]
CELEBRATED PEOPLE.
	Among the great events of this present
year, the one that is likely to mark the most
important changes is the death of King Ed-
ward VII. of Great Britain and Ireland and
Emperor of India, which took place May
6th, at the palace in London.
	His demise was unexpected until within
the last few hours, and it would seem the
King must have realized that his death was
imminent, for he is reported to have uttered
these decisive words: “Well, it is all over
but I think I have done my duty.’’
	The prevailing opinion seems to be that
he was a very broad-minded man, and as
serious matters were just pending in Parlia-
ment and the Cabinet, there will be some
anxiety on the part of those directly inter-
ested, what the outcome will be; probably
a postponement for an indefinite time.
	George Frederick Ernest Albert, son of
Edward VII, was publicly proclaimed king
of the United Kingdoms of Great Britain and
Ireland and the British dominions beyond
the seas, defender of the faith and Emperor
of India from the friary court balcony of
St. James palace, London, with all the
elaborate ceremony of medieval times. He
chose the title George V. His father’s death
occurred May 6th, 1910, and the proclama-
tion of the now reigning king took place
May 9th. Whatever speculation there may
be concerning the new ruler his future career
must determine.
	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, whose name and
fame are world-wide and who is conceded to
be the most eminent living woman at the
present time, passed her ninety-first year
May 27th, 1910. Her birthday was elabor-
ately celebrated at her home in Boston, sur-
rounded by her children and grandchildren,
great-grandchildren and friends. Flowers
of fragrance in great abundance sent by
people representing many and varied con-
ditions of life were received.
	Mrs. Howe has been President of the New
England Woman Suffrage Association for
forty years; she is also and has been the
President of the Association for the Advance-
ment of Women, and was its founder for
more than thirty years, and occupies many
other important positions. She has traveled
extensively and lectured on a variety of sub-
jects at home and in foreign lands. Her
poems and books are widely known; her
Battle Hymn of the Republic would have
made her famous if she had never written
another.

[Column 2]
	The Woman’s Journal of Boston says of
her birthday celebration:
	“In her exquisite white chair which is al-
ways her throne on these anniversary days
she sat and welcomed friends and neighbors
with all her characteristic grace and charm.
On the table just back of her in the bay-
window of the dining-room were many beau-
tiful flowers including ninety fine white roses
with one large American Beauty in the cen-
ter for the ninety-one years.
	“Upon the mantle stood another large
bouquet with a letter reading: ‘To Our Grand
Lady; May the love these roses represent be
with you every step on your life’s journey is
the loving wish of your friends the Greeks
of Boston.”
	On May 25th, two days earlier, Mrs. Howe
was guest of honor at a breakfast given at
Hotel Somerset, Boston, by the New Eng-
land Woman’s Club of which she Is Presi-
dent. Mrs. May Alden Ward presided, and
about 300 persons were seated at the tables
including many dignitaries. Mrs. Ward in-
troduced Mrs. Howe ‘‘as the unique mem-
ber of the association honored here and
through all the world.” When the applause
ceased Mrs. Howe responded:
	“We are living in an age of greatest pro-
gress. If I had had any idea of what would
be accomplished in my lifetime, I should
have been much surprised, especially by the
progress among women.
	“In my youth we were shut-ins and had
no business outside the home. I had a
rather wider bringing up than other women
and refused to be content with that order of
things.
	“Now things are very different, and the
whole world belongs to us. I feel, more on
that account than for any other reason, that
we must be up and doing, and live in the
today and the future.
	“This progress is good. I know that
good brings better, and better brings better
still. What the best is to be I don’t know,
but we have hopes.”


SUSAN H. WELLS.
	On May 3rd, 1830, soon after the organ-
ization of the Church, the woman whose
name we inscribe here was born in Lynn,
Mass., of good Yankee parentage. May
3rd, her birthday, was celebrated by her im-
mediate family and some few invited guests,
at a luncheon given by her only daughter,
Annette Wells Culmer at the residence of
Mr. and Mrs. H. L. A. Culmer, daughter
and son-in-law. The floral decorations were
superb.
	Mr. Culmer is an artist well known for
his many views of Utah mountain and lake
scenery in which he excels, and the Culmer
home is ideally artistic, but 'tis of the birth-
day of "Aunt Susan." as she is called, we
wish to tell.
	At her own home the beautiful morning
of May 3rd, there came a troop of children,
her own little ones, grandchildren and great-
grandchildren to greet her with respect,
kisses and flowers and precious gifts, but
above all with tender love. The lunch at
Mrs. Culmer's was of the most delicious
variety and delicately served by the charm-
ing girls of the family.
	Sister Susan Wells herself wore a black
silk dress with real lace collar and trim-
mings and looked not more than fifty years
of age.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith was one of


the guests at the lunch, they have been
friends and neighbors for the greater part of
their lives, and as their birthdays occur on
the same day, the celebration never seems
complete unless they come together during
the day to exchange greetings. These gath-
erings in large families mark the mile-stones
along life's highway and call up memories
that are especially delightful to remember.
	Since the last birthday of Sister Susan
Wells one of the family, and of the house-
hold has crossed over to the other side, and
is sorely missed in social and family gather-
ings as well as in the household where she
was for many years the central figure. It
was better to have the birthday festivities at
the daughter's home, for one must not in-
dulge in excessive grief, it is not good for
the body or soul; to be cheerful and wear a
glad countenance is much better for us all
than to indulge in sadness.
	Sister Susan Wells has a fine family and
many blessings, beautiful grandchildren and
great-grandchildren to rise up and call her
blessed, and she has been faithful and true
in all the walks of life. We congratulate
her on her four score years, and pray she may
live as long as life is desirable.


GRADUATING EXERCISES OF RELIEF
SOCIETY NURSE CLASS.
	On Thursday evening, May 19, the Relief
Society rooms in the Bishop's Building pre-
sented a scene both beautiful and interest-
ing. It was the occasion of the graduating
exercises of the Relief Society Nurse Class.
The rooms were bright with beautiful flow-
ers and the graduates looked especially
pretty in their white uniforms: a narrow
band of blue around the bib distinguishes
the Relief Nurses from others. There were
twenty-five girls graduated in the nurse
work and twenty in obstetrics, the latter,
Dr. Roberts private class. The spacious
rooms were full of the friends of the young
women, and besides there were present
many prominent physicians and leading
citizens. Refreshments were served in one
of the side rooms during th[-] evening.
	At the front of the room facing the grad-
uates and company sat the venerable presi-
dent of the Rel[-]ef Society, Bathsheba W.
Smith, the secretary, Emmeline B. Wells,
the treasurer, Clarissa S. Williams and other
members of the General Board, with the
speakers of the evening, Pres. John Henry
Smith and Sister Annie W. Cannon. While
Mrs. Pheobe Y. Beatie, Dr. Margaret Rob-
erts, Mrs. Emma A. Empey and Mrs. Pris-
cilla Riter were busy receiving and making
people comfortable. The exercises were
under the able charge of General Treasurer
Clarissa S. Williams and opened by the
company singing the hymn, "Our Mountain
Home, so Dear!" led by Mr. Melvin Peter-
son. Prayer was offered by Dr. E. S. Wright
after which Miss Irene Kelly sang a soprano
solo. President Bathsheba [-]. Smith spoke
briefly to the young women graduates, ad-
monishing them to good deeds and praying
for God's blessings t[-] be given unto them in
their work. After more music President
John Henry Smith addressed the class and
company. He spoke to the girls of the res-
ponsibility of their work and urged upon
them caution, faith and care; he spoke most
eloquently of the blessing, sacredness and
glory of motherhood, such words of counsel
and advice as to inspire the hearts of his
listeners and fill them with determination
to make truth and honor paramount in their


lives and hold virtue as the greatest treasure
of life. He told how men might by obedi-
ence to their mother's teachings be guarded
through life from evil deeds and be the
righteous examples to their fellow men.
How the influence of one good man might
be the means of reforming a community.
He gave timely warnings to the young wo-
men in their profession, urging them whilst
always to be cool and calm in their work,
not to be over self-confident but in cases of
danger to life to call in the best assistance
obtainable, if expert help is not at hand to
have advice from those w[-]o hold authority
and get the best aid possible. His remarks
were listened to with utmost attention and
would most certainly give inspiration and
assistance to those who heard him. After a
duet by Miss Kelly and Mrs. Peterson, Sis-
ter Annie Wells Cannon representing the
General Board, then made an address which
we would like to give in full but space will
scarcely permit of that, so we reproduce it
in part, on onother page of the paper.
	This was followed by Sister Beatie making
some very happy remarks to the class and
company and mentioning with thanks the
assistance rendered the class by many of
the leading physicians, Drs. Smullion, Allen,
Cannon, Snow, Wright, Faust, Skolfield,
Mrs. Wilcox and Dusenbury and the able
assistance of Miss Lucy Van Cott in the
Domestic Science Work. Sister Williams
then called upon the class for a rising vote
of thanks to Dr. Roberts for her patient aud
careful teaching. Miss Woolley, one of the
graduates, then presented Dr. Roberts with
an elegant cut glass bowl filled with sweet
peas from the class as a mark of their affec-
tion and appreciation. Dr. Roberts briefly
replied; after singing "Doxology," the exer-
cises were closed by prayer by Elder B.
H. Roberts, after which a social hour was
spent in conversation and congratulations
thus closing another year's work in the Re-
lief Society Nurse Class.
A. W. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


STORY OF A CENTURY.
		Paper by Emmeline B. Wells.
	The greatest and first event in the century
that I shall open with in the disconnected
story I have to tell, is the advent of a
Prophet, born early in the nineteenth cen-
tury, and with him and his future rests the
foundation of the renewal of light or the
coming dawn that will ultimately light the
world.
	The Father and the Son appeared in a
glorious vision to Joseph, the boy prophet,
revealing the Gospel, restoring the Holy
Priesthood and establishing the work of
God upon the earth. The splendor of this
vision, the importance of its message; its
acceptance and the fidelity with which it
has been received and delivered to mankind
has established communication between the
heavens and the earth, the diffusion of
light and intelligence of which this event
was the center, has been the influence and
impelling force working among the nations,
and upon mankind to bring about the mar-
velous events which mark the past century,
as far beyond all others in the uplifting of
humanity.
	We boast of great achievements, flights of
science, and the control of unseen forces.
Discoveries, developments, inventions al-
most innumerable, in medicine, in surgery,
in steam and in electricity, that is not only
lighting, but in a sense moving the world,

[Column 2]
together with the mechanical devices and
hidden forces controlled by man’s activity
through ingenuity and skill. And as yet we
have not reached the goal of expectation,
earth still has secrets to unfold, the dawn of
light has come, but not the full blaze of
mid-day. Man has discovered, invented,
and with magnificent power achieved
marvelous success, but the zenith of control
of unseen forces has not yet been reached.
There are still heights to climb, labyrinths
to search, the lamps that man has lighted
are but the stars of promise, the bud of ex-
pectation has not yet come to flower, and
yet we have had many surprises, through
the ingenuity of man, led by the faint light
that is penetrating the darkness of the
world.
	Great improvements have been made in
music, one of the divinest of all gifts, in the
instruments, in tone, composition and exe-
cution, until one almost feels we have
reached the highest point in instrumental
skill and in the cultivation of the human
voice. In education, along all lines there
has been marvelous progress, in art, too, in
its most intricate details, even though we
do go back to the Greeks for models. Paris
and Berlin have come to the front in this
last century with masterpieces that reveal
genius in painting and sculpture that awak-
en the highest anticipations for the future.
	Improvements and developments in the
subtle science of psychology, in the unfold-
ing of wonderful mental powers of activity,
until one stands aghast as it were at that
which is yet to be, and one can imagine the
time coming, when we shall see as we are
seen and know as we are known.
	Great advancement in astronomical ob-
servation and improvement in telescopes by
which heavenly bodies are made more tan-
gible or are brought nearer to our vision,
though not close enough to discern much of
the nature of them, but many discoveries
of stars of less and lesser magnitude and
comets have appeared at intervals and since
the advent of the Prophet Joseph, ten or
twelve comets have been visible.
	Then we must remember that we have
had wars and battles and great losses, the
anti-slavery movement causing the secession
of the South, volcanoes producing destruc-
tion and consternation, the great war of the
Crimea, in 1854 5 when we first heard of
voluntary nurses, Florence Nightingale, who
led the way and Clara Barton of the Red
Cross, both of whom are still living, and the
awakening among women, which had its
origin in the movement made by the Proph-
et Joseph Smith in organizing the Relief
Society in Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17, 1842,
which opened a new era for womankind the
world over, the Woman’s Right’s agitation
came soon after, the first great convention
being held in Seneca Falls, New York, July
1848.
	We are in the habit of saying in the days
of our grandmothers, when everything was
done by hand and in the home, and really
it has been almost wholly in the nineteenth
century we have had factories for weaving,
spinning and dyeing, and the primitive
methods were so dear that people objected
to machine made articles; sewing machines,
typewriters and such modern devices, all
labor-saving inventions, and presses run by
steam, typesetting; wondrous things have
come to pass that were never dreamed of
in our philosophy. The first steamer on the
Hudson river 1807, first steamer to cross the
Atlantic 1819; we travel now not only on
the surface of the land and water, by steam-

[Column 3]
ship, automobile and railroad, but beneath
the rivers through tunnels, under the sea in
submarines and through the air by aero-
planes.
	We have electric light, heat and cooking
thereby, gas and kerosine, oil was considered
wonderful as an improvement over tallow
candles and whale oil of early years in the
century, even lucifer matches were only in-
vented in 1829, people ask what did we do
before; long ago there was the lodestone and
the rubbed amber, and no one could have
been made (to believe) that out of this, or
from this could have come the wireless tele-
phone, the working of electric signals by
electro magnets—electric signalling or tele-
graph. In 1835 and 1837 the first needle
telegraph was set up in England, but its
utility first publicly demonstrated in 1842,
now we have the telephone, phonograph,
wireless telegraphy, that goes through ocean
waves and penetrates walls of brick and
stone and compasses the world, communica-
tion above and below, and ere long the
whole earth will be girdled with wire com-
munication.
	There seems innumerable things to men-
tion, elevators instead of climbing stairs,
and in building, instead of primitive meth-
ods, there is steel and concrete construction,
sky scrapers, though not yet in this age have
men attempted a tower of Babel to reach
the heavens.
	In summing up the story of the century
we must consider the expansion of the na-
tions. Great Britain under Victoria (and
Edward VII) with Palmerston, Peel, Glad-
stone, Disraeli, and Salisbury, in its colon-
ies—East India, Australasia, Africa and the
Canadas, and its control of Egypt has be-
come the mightiest empire in the world.
	The consolidation affected by Victor
Emanuel, Cavour, Garibaldi, of the petty
kingdoms of Italy and the domination of
the state and the pretended? rule of the
Catholic Church has made of United Italy
a kingdom of beneficence to its people free-
ing millions who are today the laborers
of all nations.
	The Franco-Prussian War created the Ger-
man empire, uniting the kingdoms and
principalities of the Teutonic race in a
nation of the first rank in power, civilization
and productiveness.
	The inspiration of that strong man Diaz,
has made Mexico a nation of influence, an
instrument to bring about the purposes of
God concerning the descendants of Lehi.
	The islands of the sea have not escaped
the influence of the Spirit of God brought
into the world by Himself, and so Japan has
become a power in civilization and the Phil-
ippines a land of freedom.
	The last vestige of the rule of kings has
been driven from the Land of Promise, in
the final expulsion of Spain and its hateful
Romanism, leaving Cuba free.
	The development of our own country, its
expansion by acquiring territory from sea
to sea, and finally in creating free states
from all its territory, the overthrow of
slavery and unification of the states through
the baptism of blood in the civil war, the
development of the West with all its won-
derful natural riches; the wise exercise of
power that a free people could not help but
acquire, by the practice of industry, and the
arts, has brought our glorious country to the
fore-front of the nations, the leader of
them all. Greatest in all that makes nations
great.
	In the education of the people in almost
every country tremendous progress has been


[Column 1]
made. Systems of school from the kinder-
garten [-]p to the splendid state and national
universities and the technical schools and
colleges for training the youth in every de-
partment of art and science, and all the
profe[-]sions have grown to such perfection
that, taken together with the museums and
librari[-]s and occasional exhibitions, it is
now possible to receive instruction with ill-
ustrations upon any subject that the mind
has any conception of; and trained and
skillful workmen to lead the unskilled are
supplied for every field of human endeavor.
	In literature it is only necessary to men-
tion a few names to indicate the superlative
place it has attained and to challenge com-
parison with any other age of letters. Among
English-speaking peoples there was Scott
and Byron, Thackeray, George Eliot, Jane
Austen, Elizabeth Barrett Browning, Felicia
Hemans, Dinah Muloch Craik, Disraeli,
Dickens, Wilkie Collins, George Sands,
Lord Tennyson, William Black, Kipling,
Marie Corelli, William Watson, Dobson,
Stevenson, Barrie and Gilbert Parker. And
in America Thoreau, Wordsworth, Cooper,
Longfellow, Lowell, Holmes, Whittier, Mar-
garet Fuller, Bancroft, Hawthorne, Harriet
Beecher Stowe, Louisa Alcott, Bryant,
Motley, Emerson, Greeley, Dana, Curtis,
Elizabeth Stuart Phelps, Stedman, Howells,
Bret Harte, Mark Twain, Eugene Field,
Whitman, Julia Ward Howe and the endless
list of clever story tellers.
	The making of books and magazines and
newspapers of quality and in quantities
never dreamed of marks the century just
past as more than all that had gone before
put together.
	In science the discoveries and inventions
of electricity and the power of steam and
gas have multiplied the productivity of
human labor a thousand-fold, and made
possible transportation by land and water
and the air as of all things; and communi-
cation quick, accurate, instantaneous of all
thought between peoples and nations. Think
of the wireless telegraphy, the electric light,
the telephone, the airship, the automobile,
photography, and photo-printing. What
marvels they are: and yet they were unknown
upon the earth when the Lord spoke to Jos-
eph the Prophet, as were the steam-engine
and the power printing-press.
	In religion, the influence of the truth,
though not recognized by the sectarian
teachers, has broken down creeds, and set
the people adrift in a world of unbelief. For
faith there has come tolerance among them,
for dogma, doubt, for bigotry, the higher
criticism—all these are slippery stones on
which the religionists of the day are crossing
the stream of life, not knowing where they
are going, nor why they are here.
FINALE.
	In the midst of it all the work of the
Lord goes on apace, keeping abreast with
the first in every good word and work. No
invention for the welfare of men, [-]o truth
for their instruction, no benevolence, no
charity, no refinement, no culture, no virtue
known among them, that is not cherished
and approved among us.
	Over all that the world has however, and
beyond all price, we have the authority to
teach salvation, the ordinances to save, the
power to bless. We are destined to lead
the race of men, and our childr[-]n to behold
the triumph of truth over error, the reign
of righteousness and the glory of the Lord
ruling upon the earth, when the kingdom

[Column 2]
and the greatness thereof under the whole
heavens, shall be given unto the sons of
God forever.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
ADDRESS TO RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE
		SCHOOL GRADUATES.
GIVEN BY ANNIE WELLS CANNON.
	Mrs. Cannon opened her remarks by re-
citing the amusing and unique dialogue be-
tween Sir Anthony Absolute and Mrs. Mala-
prop from Richard Brinsley Sheridan’s clever
comedy—The Rivals, concerning what a
woman ought to know, afterwards stating
that Mrs. Malaprop’s description logically
considered, was just about what a woman
was allowed to know something like half
a century since. Continuing, she further
said; “’Tis true that a little over fifty years
ago the idea prevailed that education for
girls, except to a limited extent, of a super-
ficial character, was a waste of time and
money, true there are along the centuries in-
dividual cases where women broke the
thrall of darkest ignorance and cast a lus-
trous light along the ages The fair Diotima
was the teacher of Socrates, and Hypatia
expounded the mysteries of the Neo-Plato-
nic philosophy to the young Greeks, and
many learned women held positions and
chairs in the universities of southern Europe.
Later, Madam de Stael, George Sand, George
Eliot and Harriet Martineau. Coming to
our own beloved land we have Margaret
Fuller Ossili and Lydia Maria Child. Oh
yes there are legions of names of women of
high intellectual culture; famous in history
for some individual act or influence or
friendship, but they did nothing for the
masses.
	Royal princesses received education be-
cause of the high position they were destined
to occupy, and the greatest advancement in
the nations has been under the rule of wo-
men. Notwithstanding these things equal
education for the sexes among the masses
has had a hard struggle, and even today,
though there have been many victories, the
battle is not yet won.
	Among the first great institutions to re-
ceive women were the medical colleges, and
today all over the land we have women
teachers, lawyers, editors, artists, and praise
the Lord, women doctors.	*	*	*
	The thinkers of today tell us of vibra-
tions of thought that pass along the earth,
but we know that it is only the inspired
ones who feel them, and it is a pleasing
thought to me that the divine message to
our Prophet that inspired him to begin this
work—The Relief Society for women
through his power, was sent vibrating along
the ways and loosened the bondage and
opened the portals just as other beaatiful
truths of the Gospel have been sent forth,
and the world’s philosophers and teachers
have received them and promulgated them
for the good of humanity.	*	*	*
	You may ask what was the need of this
organization. What the reason? Great
changes, great movements such as this are
not brought about unless conditions demand
them and conditions demanded the emanci-
pation of women for the broader assistance
of her efforts and labors among the human
race.	*	*	*	*	*
	Through this organized effort the sick and
the needy, the aged and the orphan have
been cared for outside of alms houses and
asylums, and as our efforts become more
united and our dreams are realized, the

[Column 2]
communities where we labor will be the
great examples for the world. For by edu-
cating the people in the true ways of living,
by training mankind to better keep the com-
mandments of God in regard to the care of
the human body and the mortal soul that
for a time is in his own keeping, we may
eliminate disease and suffering from our
midst.
	There are two professions that so far as I
know have never been denied to women no
matter how dense the understanding nor
how ignorant the intellect, and yet the two
that in my opinion should demand the
highest intellectual training possible —
motherhood and nursing. It is along these
lines of work that the Relief Society have
many years been teaching. Countless seeds
of thought and tireless hours of labor have
the mothers of this organization bequeathed
to the people. There are no public records,
no statements of the thousands of kind-
nesses and comforts performed by these 
good women, only in the Lamb’s book of life
is the story told. It has been a popular
belief that nature meant all women to be
mothers and nurses. Perhaps nature did
just as she intended all rose bushes to bear
roses, but compare the wayside straggling
bush with its little, fragrant flower that wilts
and falls to pieces as soon as it is plucked,
to the beautiful bush of the garden culti-
vated and pruned and watered by the care-
ful gardener, and behold the unfolding leaf
by leaf of a hardy flower of richest color,
shape and perfume, just so the intelligent
mother and nurse is a better teacher and
care taker.
	Just as I think every nurse should hope to
be a mother so I think every mother should
prepare to be a nurse, and the more intelli-
gent one is, the better qualified is she for
those important duties.
	When the girls of our great hospital re-
ceived their certificates saying that their
training was sufficient and now they could
go out into the cities and the homes of the
people, pursue the work they had been so
admirably and thoroughly taught in that
splendidly equipped institution, I thought
of you, our Relief Society nurses, who like
them in a way are about to start among the
people, not like them however with a fin-
ished course behind you and a perfect free-
dom to carve out for yourselves your way,
because your contract holds you yet to a
duty to perform, in the performance of
which you will gather knowledge and ex-
perience beyond any anticipation you could
possibly hold. You will not be co-temporary
with the hospital graduates, for they demand
a price commensurate with the training so
hardly earned, while you having only as it
were finished the first grade under your able
instructor, go forth now under a new super-
visor to learn and to do in the ways of
charity. Your earnings will not be a fair
measure of your training, nor will they profit
you much only as you earn the reward of
the true and conscientious woman, who for-
getting self helps to build up others. And
yet your work is more necessary and your
calling most honorable.
	You will have the happiness of laboring
in a purely disinterested spirit and so be
able to do for love what money could neither
procure nor reward. Do not ever think your
education in this regard is finished, but in
your ministrations take advantage of every
opportunity to learn and study this beauti-
ful science of nursing, just as a man might
study that which he truly and ardently
wishes to understand. The homes where


you will be called to work according to your
contract, are not the homes of the rich
where, if you don’t find everything you want
at hand it is only a matter of ordering it
through the telephone, but perhaps homes
where you may not find anything, homes
absolutely void of all conveniences and
necessaries, then the ingenuity and artifice
Mrs. Malaprop advises, might come to your
assistance, however don’t let trifles stand in
your way, but look around you for out of
disorder and chaos you may have to im-
provise and manufacture what you need. In
such cases take for your example the
saintly Florence Nightingale. Remember
when she reached the Crimea how wholly
without necessaries she found the hospital
camp at Scutari, and out of the rough ma-
terial around her of “boards, boxes, camp
kettles, and blundering Turks she estab-
lished laundries and kitchens,” and brought
the most perfect order out of what appeared
to be a chaotic ruin. You have not await-
ing you perhaps the glory of serving on a bat-
tlefield or under the magic order of the Red
Cross, but neither had Florence Nightingale
or Clara Barton when they first learned the
“noble art of mitigating human anguish,” it
was conditions which afterwards arose that
called them forth to their great work. When
they first studied nursing they little dreamed
of the scenes that they would witness or the
work that they would do.
	Do you know of the calls that will come
to you, they may not be national disasters,
we hope they will not be, but your ministra-
tions if faithfully performed will bring you
just as sure reward. I would admoni[-]h you
to try to make good out of everything, even
though you may be called to haunts of ig-
norance and vice, let the influence of your
own beautiful soul lift you above your sur-
roundings and be the means of scattering in-
cense around you. Out of these very circum-
stances learn a lesson. “Remember that
beautiful blind teacher, Helen Kellar, tells
us no effort we ever make to attain some-
thing beautiful is ever lost.” And after all
the secret of life is not to do what one likes
but to like that which one has to do. My
dear friends, you have gained through your
training and your study a little knowledge.
The poet Pope says: “A little knowledge is
a dangerous thing,” which is doubtless true,
so don’t be satisfied with a little knowledge
but all through your lives bear in mind this
truth that “knowledge is power,” and lose
not one moment of time to learn and to im-
prove. Don’t you know one never finishes
school, we only complete a grade, and all
along the way we are but the children of
that Master, whose divine message was love.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
			ALPINE STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the Al-
pine Stake convened April 29th at Linden,
President Rebecca Standring presiding.
Opened by singing “O Ye Mountains High.”
Prayer by Bishop Cullimore. Singing “Love
at Home,” Roll called, showing every ward
represented. President Standring opened
the conference with a few words of welcome
and appreciation of the large attendance.
Eight wards were reported by their presidents
each in good condition and working order.
	President Stephen L. Chipman compli-
mented the sisters on their reports, wished
that the same good report could be given
of all the Associations of our Stake. You
sisters can be of great assistance in swell-

[Column 2]
ing the members at our Sacrement meetings.
The Stake Presidency do appreciate the work
you sisters are doing. Prayed the Lord to
bless and and help us in the future as He has
done in the past,
	“I Know that my Redeemer Lives” was
beautifully rendered by Mary Stewart.
	Sister Annie Hindley, a returned mission-
ary was introduced, and spoke a short time.
Told us of the Relief Society work in the
Northern States, gave us some of her exper-
iences and bore a strong testimony to the
truth. Singing “We Thank Thee O God for
a Prophet.” Benediction by counselor An-
nie C. Hindley.
	Conference adjourned for noon hour and
the officers and teachers of Linden Ward
served the two hundred people present with
a delicious lunch.
	Reconvened at 1:30 p. m. with Counselor
Annie C. Hindley in charge. Singing “Guide
Us O Thou Great Jehovah.” Prayer, Robert
Thorne of Linden; Singing “Count Your
Blessings.”
	Counselor Harriet Jacobs was thankful for
the privilege of attending this large confer-
ence and gave some good instructions to
mothers with regard to the care of their
children.
	E, J. T. Roberts spoke a few moments on
the lessons prepared for the wards.
	Bishop Cullimore of Linden heartily wel- 
comed the Relief Society Conference to his
ward. Thankful for the good work and in-
fluence of the sisters of his ward. Advised
the sisters to use their influence with the hus-
bands to perform the duties placed upon
them. Invoked the blessings of the Lord on
every one present.
	Preident S. L. Chipman again occupied
a short time. Spoke on the first principles
of the Gospel and encouraged the sisters to
take hold of their lessons in earnest, so as to
be able to give reasons and proofs for our
belief.
	President Rebecca Standring said “It is
hardly possible to stand before such an aud-
ience, especially Mothers in Israel, and faith-
ful workers, without feeling an inspiration
come over one, and yet I feel inadequate
to the task. There is no end to the labors
of the sisters, and the more we do the more
we will be capable of doing. This is only a
school. Our labors here are nothing com-
pared with what they will be in the Spirit
World. I desire to continue to labor in the
cause of God as long as Father wants me to.
	God bless you my dear sisters and help us
all to honor the Priesthood and live day by
day worthy of the great blessings we are re-
cieving.
	A lesson on Faith was beantifully given
by Sister Esther Kirk.
Brother Wm. Southwick of Lehi spoke a
short time. Bishop Cullimore presented the
names of Jennie W. Johnson and Lizzie M.
Cullimore as counselors to in the Relief So-
ciety to President Cordelia Thorne. They
were sustained and set apart.
	Singing “Doxology”. Prayer by Sister
Emma Featherstone.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Number present, 232.
			SINA CHIPMAN, Sec’y.


IN MEM[-]RIAM.
	A tribute of love to the memory of Mary F.
Shelby, our beloved sister and co-worker, who
passed peacefully away, April 2, 1910
	She was born in Attica, Indiana. She was the
only one of her father's household who embraced
the Gospel, and like many others sacrificed home
and friends for the sake of gathering to the land


of the Saints. It can truly be said of our deceased
sister that she was a noble woman full of faith
and always willing and ready to give a helping
hand to those in need.
	Although afflicted with cancer of a malignant
form, knowing that death was inevitable, she al-
ways wore a smile and acknowledged the hand of
the Lord in her darkest hours.
	With the departure of Sister Shelby from this
scene of action, Randolph Relief Society has lost
a wise counselor and diligent worker. She was
a minute woman, ever ready to obey the advice
of those placed over her. She held the position
of president of the Y. L. M. I. A. for some time
filling it with dignity and honor to herself, always
cultivating the spirit of love and kindness, which
made her duties a pleasure along with those con-
nected with her. Latterly she was chosen coun-
selor to Celia Spencer, president of the Relief So-
ciety and this office she held until her death.
	There are scenes in this drama of life that are
hard to look upon and harder for we short-sighted
mortals to understand; we gaze as in a dream at
the grim reaper advancing upon our loved ones
with open sickle to gather them into the harvest
of death But still in looking back on the years
that we have spent together, the sunshine and
shadows, the memory of them is a precious treas-
ure and a sweet remembrance of the past.
	Sister Shelby leaves four sons and two daugh-
ters and a loving, devoted husband, besides a
host of friends to mourn her demise.
We must not say our sister’s lost
She has only gone before;
And we will meet again I kuow
On yonder shining shore.
RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas: God in his wisdom has seen fit to call
home to another field of labor our sister, causing
us to mourn;
	Whereas: we feel it a sore trial to part with one
we so loved and esteemed, as we did Sister Shelby
who always performed her work with an untiring
devotion,
	Therefore be it resolved; while we mourn over
the present loss, we rejoice in the remembrance
of past associations and in the assurance of a re-
union yet to come,
	Resolved; that we emulate her noble character,
her gentle deportment and devotion to her family
and home,
	Therefore, we resolve to remember her as one
of God's noblewomen and a true and faithful
Latter-day Saint,
	Therefore, be it resolved in behalf of the Ran-
dolph Relief Society: We extend our heartfelt
sympathy to the bereaved husband, sons and
daughters in the loss of a kind mother and loving
wife.
	Be it resolved: that a copy of these resolutions
be placed on the records of the Randolph Relief
Society, also be printed in the home paper, and
that a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for publication.
CELIA SPENCER,
LOUISA GRAY,
LIBBIE NEBEKER.
Committee.


A REMARKABLE WOMAN.
	MARGARET F. C. MORRISON.
			(Concluded.)
	Brother and Sister Morrison started on
their journey for Utah in the spring of
1856, via Omaha from St. Louis.  They
were in camp, living in tents, at Omaha six
weeks waiting for the company to get ready.
On the 26th of June the company of sixty
wagons started on the journey to cross the 
plains, Captain Canute Peterson in charge.
Sister Morrison testifies that he was a wise
and most efficient leader.  During the jour-
ney their cattle stampeded five times. A
young man from Denmark was accidentally
run over and instantly killed.  It was the 
only accident upon the journey.
	On the 14th of July, a great herd of buff-
alo passed through the camp. It was a 
great sight and created considerable fear
and consternation, but no accident to any
one, and the Saints felt that the preserving


[Column 1]
care of the Lord had protected them and
they were very thankful. 
	The company arrived in Salt Lake City,
September 23, 1856, all in good health and
glad to meet with many dear friends with
whom they were acquainted before leaving
England. Brother Morrison purchased a
house and lot in the Fifth ward in Salt Lake
City and they were soon comfortably situat-
ed, as they had brought many necessary
comforts with them from England. 
	On the 28th of November Brother Morris-
on was engaged to take charge of a mill
which was being built at Farmington by
Samuel W. Richards, Joseph Cain, and
Elias Smith; Sister Morrison and husband
felt that they had much to be thankful for
in the land of their adoption. Not long
after being settled in their new home in
Zion Sister Morrison gave birth to a son,
who was named William G. C. Morrison,
the event occurred Dec. 9, 1856, and there
was great joy over the birth of this boy, they
felt surely the Lord had been mindful of
them and life now seemed more than ever
before worth living. 
	On the 13th of March, 1857, another
great blessing came to them. The oppor-
tunity to go to the Endowment House and
receive the blessings there and to be married
for time and all eternity, sealed at the holy
altar, by one holding the authority of the
Priesthood. 
	The next year a great change came into
their lives for the Lord revealed to them the
principle of plural marriage and they accep-
ted it in the true sense and took another
wife into the household. Sister Morrison,
like many other women among the Latter-
day Saints, made this sacrifice willingly for
righteousness sake, firmly believing it to be
a correct and holy order of matrimony; the
name of the young woman was Lucy Ether-
ington, and they dwelt together in unity. 
	It was very soon after this momentous
change in the family that Brother Morrison
was called to join others of the brethren in
Echo Canyon, at the time when Johnston’s
army were coming to Utah, a memorable
event in the history of the Territory, the
word was that the army was coming to ex-
terminate the Mormons and devastate their
homes and belongings. 
	Sister Morrison with that supreme courage
that animated the women of those eventful
days, was equal to the occasion and passed
through the trying ordeal of leaving her
home and making the sacrifice required in
going with the “Move” south as the people
were determined the scenes of the past
should not be re-enacted—the orders given
were to leave the city and Sister Morrison
without her husband prepared for the emer-
gency. 
	Sister Morrison says: “Early in April I
was ready for the journey, taking with me
my husband’s second wife and my little son
Willie, with our provisions and clothing and
bedding to supply our wants, leaving every-
thing we owned behind, trusting to a kind
Providence to open the way for us to recover
what we had left. We traveled one week
and arrived at Ephraim, Sanpete Co. (this
was in April, 1858) we met with a very wel-
come reception from the people in the Fort,
for the settlement was then in its infancy. 
There was not a house to be seen from the
time we left Nephi until we came to Fort
Ephraim, so I made up my mind to remain
there feeling that was the place the Lord
wanted me to go to, as my husband was
out in the mountains to meet the army and
I did not know when he could return, there-

[Column 2]
fore I had to assume all responsibility. The
people in the country towns were very desti-
tute of clothing, and as I had a plentiful
supply I bartered clothing and blankets for
the thihgs which I needed; I rented a house,
and paid rent three months in advance. 
Next I bought a city lot and had it plowed
and grain put in, then bought a cow, a pig
and chickens, flour, meat, butter, eggs, soap. 
Every one treated me with respect and
kindness and whenever I saw a chance to
do a kind act I took pleasure in doing it,
thereby gaining for myself many friends
who have been and are very dear to me to
this very day, it was some time in June be-
fore my husband came to us not knowing
where we were, he came south and inquired
at every settlement, until he reached Nephi,
there he was told that a few families had
gone to Sanpete, and there he directed his
steps and found hia family all well, with
plenty to eat and drink and a comfortable
house to live in, all of which was obtained
by obedience to the commandments of the
Lord given through his servant Brigham
Young.”
	The spring of 1859, on the 13th of March
a daughter was born to these goodly parents
they named her Williamina Henrietta; the
little one greatly rejoiced their hearts and
seemed a recompense for all their trials. 
Later the same spring it was deemed exped-
ient to organize a new settlement, a little
south-west; accordingly, Mt. Pleasant was
organized and settled and thither the Mor-
risons removed, thinking it would be a bet-
ter location for a family. After removing to
Mt. Pleasant, Brother Morrison was appoint-
ed Clerk of the town, also the Postmaster,
naturally being a man of fine education and
of good ability, he was called to fill impor-
tant positions of trust; subsequently he was
appointed assessor and collector. 
	The Morrison family were among the very
foremost in the new settlement they had
helped to make, as time went on there were
trials and difficulties to meet and obstacles
to overcome, but through patience and per-
severance they were able to endure all things
and to keep the faith for which they had
made such willing sacrifice. In course of
time Brother Morrison increased his family,
taking two more wives, making quite a large
family although it was a very happy one. 
Sister Morrison was the soul of kindness
and generosity and was a mother to all in
her numerous household. 
	Brother Morrison prospered in business
and in course of time built a more com-
modious home which was known as Bon-
Accord-cottage. 
	On the 15th of February, 1863, another
daughter was born to Brother and Sister
Morrison and they named her Christina
she was a very superior girl and was very
finely educated and her mother said of her:
“she was surely the comfort and joy of my
later years.”
	In the spring of 1855 Brother Morrison
was called to lead a company of fifty famil-
ies to make a new settlement in Sevier
County; the town was named Richfield, and
he was the first Probate Judge of that
county, which office he held for five years

[Column 3]
in succession, and he was also appointed
Postmaster of the new town, and kept the
office for many years and he held other offi-
ces of honor and dignity. 
	William Morrison died in 1889, honored
and respected by all who knew him, leaving
a numerous posterity to labor in the interests
of Zion. At the time of his decease he was
68 years and eleven months old and he was
sincerely mourned and greatly missed by the
community in which he had lived and la-
bored for so many years. 
	Sister Morrison was a strong-minded wo-
man and bore the loss of her husband brave-
ly, and with the true courage and hope of
a Saint of God. 
	On May 11, 1868, Sister Morrison was
called and set apart to preside over the Re-
lief Society of Mount Pleasant, Utah, and
filled the position not only with great dig-
nity and credit, but her charity and mag-
nanimity were boundless, the people of that
vicinity never tire of recounting instances of
her great love and humility and ready as-
sistance for the needy and distressed often
from her personal resources. She was the very
embodiment of that “charity that never
faileth.”
	It is stated that over one thousand of
those who have died and are buried in the
Mt. Pleasant cemetery were dressed and
laid out for burial by her without charge. 
What a record of service for others, truly
she went about doing good, and no doubt
she will receive an abundant welcome into
the courts of glory. The surviving children
of Sister Margaret Morrison are William G. 
C. Morrison of Monroe, Sevier Co., Utah, and
Williamina H. Erickson of Mt. Pleasant,
Sanpete County. Sister Erickson is the
president of the Relief Society in North San-
pete Stake and is an able and efficient pre-
siding officer. A younger daughter Chris
tina, wife of Judge Ferdinand Erickson died
in Mt. Pleasant a few years ago, leaving two
very beautiful daughters. Sister Morrison
leaves 1S grand-children and 3 great-grand-
children.				E. B. WELLS.
	“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord, yea
from henceforth, they rest from their labors and
their works do follow them.”
“‘Blessd are they who do his bidding,!’ cries
	The angel day and night;
“They shall find abundant entrance—they
	Shall walk with Him in white!”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	It would seem that there is an inference
to be drawn from two simple facts. First,
militarist, the employer of cheap and of
child labor, the bribed politician, the con-
temner of education, the liquor interest, the
brothel interest, every interest that sets its
face against reform, from reform of the milk
supply to disarmament of nations, is op-
posed to the political liberty of woman.
Second, the biologist, the political econo-
mist, the statesmau, the sociologist, the eu
genist, the physician, the educator, the stu-
dent, and the moralist, are to be found in
ever increasing number, advocates of her en-
franchisement.—Woman's Journal, Boston.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY LADIES' READY TO WEAR GARMENTS
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION. TRY US

